Allahabad High Court
Shyam Lal vs State Of U.P. And Anr. on 10 October, 1953
Equivalent citations: AIR 1954 All 235
Author: Agrwala
Bench: Agarwala, Chaturvedi
JUDGMENT Agrwala, J.
1\. Shyam Lal, applicant, was a member of the Indian Service of Engineers
occupying the post of the Superintending Engineer, VI Circle in the Irrigation
Department of the State ot Uttar Pradesh. He was promoted to the rank of
Superintending Engineer in August 1944 and was holding that post when the
dispute in the case, that calls for decision, arose. The applicant passed his
Civil Engineering Examination from the Thomason College, Roorkee, in 1922
standing first in his class. He was awarded the Council of India Prize of Rs.
1,000/- for being the best student of the year and a prize of Rs. 250/- for
being the best Indian student of the year. He was also awarded the Cautley
Gold Medal for the best Engineering design of the year. He was appointed in
the Indian Service of Engineers in October 1923 by the Secretary of State for
India in Council.
At the time of his appointment the applicant was given a letter of appointment
by the Secretary of State for India in Council which prescribed 'inter alia'
leading evidence in support of the contentions of the person concerned and
controverting the contentions raised against him must be given; and where
necessary, opportunity of cross-examining witnesses of the other side and of
addressing arguments should also be afforded. No such thing was done in the
present case.
35\. Though reasonable opportunity of showing cause against the action
proposed to be taken against the applicant was not given, the order of the
17th of April 1953 having been passed under the provisions of Rule 465A of the
Civil Service Regulations, no such opporitunity was necessary; because the
compulsory retirement contemplated under that rule is not covered by Article
311 of the Constitution.
36\. The result, therefore, is that this application fails and is dismissed.
In the circumstances, we direct the parties to bear their own costs.
37\. Mr. Gopi Nath Kunzru, on behalf of the petitioner prays that a
certificate may be given to the applicant to the effect that the case involves
a substantial question of the interpretation of the Constitution and is
by the Secretary of State for India in Council which prescribed 'inter alia'
the conditions governing the applicant's terms of appointment condition's of
service, promotion, leave, pension etc. A copy of the letter has been annexed
to the petition. After the attainment of Independence by India a fresh
covenant was entered into between him, and the Governor of Uttar Pradesh and
the Governor-General of India, by which the applicant's original conditions of
service were confirmed.
According to the applicant, he incurred the displeasure of certain colleagues
in the service whose work he had the misfortune to criticise in connection
with his routine duties as Superintending Engineer, and those person's started
making wrong reports against him. On January 4, 1950, the U.P. Government
addressed a letter No. 43-B/XIII/277-B-1948 to the Chief Engineer, Irrigation
Branch, U.P. asking for the applicant's explanation in respect of certain
charges. The charges related to certain alleged excess payments by him to
certain contractors which, in the opinion of the Government, were unjustified.
One of the charges, however, related to dishonest conduct,
2\. The applicant submitted his explanation to the charges to the Chief
Engineer. It appears that thereafter the Chief Engineer sent his own note in
reply to the applicant's explanation to the Union Public Service Commission,
which decided that the charge relating to dishonesty was not proved while the
other charges were proved. On the arrival of this report, the President of
India passed an order on the 17th of April 1953 compulsorily retiring the
applicant from service with effect from the date of the handing over of the
charge by the applicant. Before the order could be served on him, the
applicant made an application to this Court under Article 226 of the
Constitution, praying that a writ of certiorari be issued quashing the
President's order dated the 17th April, 1953, ordering the compulsory
retirement of the petitioner. In this petition he alleged that the order had
not yet been served on him and that it might be served on him at any time. He
prayed for an 'ad interim' order directing the opposite parties, namely, the
State of Uttar Pradesh and the Union of India to refrain from relieving the
petitioner of his present post and from carrying into execution the aforesaid
order.
The grounds on which the petition was based was that the applicant was not
given any reasonable opportunity to show cause against the action proposed to
be taken against him, that he was merely asked to submit an explanation which
he did but was not given an opportunity of controverting by evidence and
argument the charges which were levelled against him or the remarks which were
made against him by the Chief Engineer. When this application was presented to
us, we considered that a 'prima facie' case had been made out and acceded to
the request for the grant of an interim order, and directed that the order of
17th April 1953 be not carried into effect till the decision of this petition.
Later, on the representation of the Advocate-General on behalf of the State,
the interim order was modified and we directed that the Government may not if
they like, take any work from the applicant but may pay him the salary till
the decision of the application. We understand that the applicant has been
drawing his salary during this time.
3\. We have now heard learned counsel on both sides and we have come to the
conclusion that the applicant is not entitled to the relief claimed by him.
The applicant relies upon Article 311 of the Constitution. That Article
provides-
"No person who is a member of a civil service of the Union or an all-India
Service or a civil service of a State or holds a civil post under the Union or
a State shall be dismissed or removed by an authority subordinate to that by
which he was appointed. (2) No such person as aforesaid shall be dismissed or
removed or reduced in rank until he has been given a reasonable opportunity of
showing cause against the action proposed to be taken in regard to him."
There is a proviso to sub-article (2) which is not relevant for the purpose of
the present case. In substance, Article 311 provides a twofold protection to
an employee in the civil service of the Union or of a State-- (a) that such an
employee shall not be dismissed or removed by an authority subordinate to that
by which he was appointed and (b) that such an employee shall not be dismissed
or removed or reduced in rank until he has been given a reasonable opportunity
of showing cause against the action proposed to be taken in regard to him. The
applicant's case is that he was 'removed' from service and, as such, he was
entitled to a reasonable opportunity of showing cause against his removal,
which he was not given.
4\. The alleged 'removal' of the applicant was under paragraph 465A of the
Civil Service Regulations which provides as follows: "For officers mentioned
in Article 349A the rule for the grant of retiring pension is as follows :
(1) An officer is entitled, on his resignation being accepted, to a retiring
pension after completing qualifying service of not less than 25 years or in
the case of officers of Imperial Services of the Forest, Geological Survey,
Public Works, Railway and Telegraph Departments and any others covered by
Article 635 who entered the service before the 6th day of December, 1932, not
less than twenty years.
(2) A retiring pension is also granted to an officer who is required by
Government to retire after completing twenty-five years' qualifying service or
more."
Then there are two notes to this paragraph.
Note I reads-
"Government retains an absolute right to retire any officer after he has
completed twenty-five years' qualifying service without giving any reasons,
and no claim to special compensation on this account will be enter-tamed.
'This right will not be exercised except when it is in the public interest to
dispense with the further Services of an officer."
It is not necessary to quote Note 2.
5\. The applicant was, according to him, removed under sub-paragraph (2) of
paragraph 465A read with note I. The applicant had completed 25 years of
qualifying service. He had not attained the age of 55 years which is an age of
superannuation and which he would do on the 10th of January 1955. Retirement
under this rule does not entail any reduction in the pension which the
applicant may be entitled to. It is conceded in the present case that no such
reduction was ordered in his case and no other punishment was inflicted on
him.
6\. On behalf of the opposite party it is alleged that a compulsory retirement
under paragraph 465A is not "removal" within the meaning of Article 311 of the
Constitution, and further that even if it be so, the applicant was given a
reasonable opportunity of showing cause against his removal, inasmuch as he
was asked to submit an explanation which he did, and nothing more, in the
circumstances of the case, was necessary to be done.
7\. Therefore, two questions fall for decision-- (1) whether "removal" within
the meaning of Article 311 includes "retirement", as may be ordered under
paragraph 465A of the Civil Service Regulations, and (2) whether, if removal
includes retirement under that paragraph, a reasonable opportunity was given
to the applicant? A third question also arises in the case and it is whether
paragraph 465A is a valid rule or regulation and whether it is applicable to
the applicant.
8\. The word "removal" means in its dictionary meaning "displace" or
"discharge" from a certain position. In its widest scope it would include
every kind of displacement of a person, from a post he holds. It would,
therefore, also in that sense include a compulsory retirement on the
attainment of the age of superannuation under Rule 56 of the Fundamental
Rules. It may also be said that it would include, in that larger sense, the
termination of the service of an employee for any reason whatever, for
instance on the expiry of his term of office which he held. It is obvious that
a wide meaning such as this cannot be given to the word "removal" as used in
Article 311 of the Constitution. The Article requires that a reasonable
opportunity is to be given to an employee to show cause against the action
proposed to be taken against him. There can be no question of showing cause
when a service is terminated, because a person has attained the age of
superannuation, or because his term of service which he could hold under a
contract under which he was employed, expires. In all these cases the action
of terminating an employee's service is taken not because of any misconduct or
fault of the employee but because his term of office has come to an end by the
automatic operation of some rule applicable to him or by some term of the
contract of his service.
A person can be asked to show cause against an action proposed to be taken
against him, if the action proposed to be taken against the applicant is of
such a nature that it may possibly be avoided if properly explained. If the
termination of service is ostensibly not for any fault of the employee, no
question of explanation can arise. Therefore, it must be held that "removal"
within the meaning of Article 311 must refer to a removal which is for some
fault, or misconduct of the employee himself which he may try to explain. The
word "removal" is not used in its widest connotation in Article 311, as has
recently been laid down by the Supreme Court in -- 'Satish Chandra Anand v.
Union of India', AIR 1953 SC 250 (A). In that case a temporary employee's term
of service was terminated by means of a notice as required by the terms of the
contract of his service. The Supreme Court pointed out that such termination
of service did not amount to "removal" within the meaning of Article 311. We
have, therefore, necessarily to put some limitation on the connotation of the
word "removal" in Article 311.
Under paragraph 465A of the Civil Service Regulations, there may be compulsory
retirement of a person who has completed 25 years of qualifying service. On
completion of that period of service, the employee is granted full pension, as
would be available to him after completing that period of service, and he is
entitled to all emoluments as be would be entitled to if his services were
terminated at that particular point of time. With the exception of the fact
that he may stand to lose monetarily by a premature retirement from service he
suffers no other stigma. But the difficulty that arises is that paragraph 465A
itself provides that this premature retirement of an employee will not be made
unless it is in the public interest to do so.
9\. The argument on behalf of the applicant is that this is tantamount to
saying that the employee is blame-worthy or, at any rate, has some defect or
disqualification for which he is compulsorily retired under that paragraph;
and, it is urged that, for that reason, it is natural and just that he should
be afforded reasonable opportunity of showing why he should not be prematurely
retired and put on a level different from his compeers in the service. We have
given our best consideration to this matter and although much can be said for
either view, we have finally come to the conclusion that the contention
advanced on behalf of the State is the correct one and must be accepted. A
little consideration of the history of the rule enacted in Article 311 of the
Constitution would confirm this conclusion.
10\. Before the Government of India Act, 1919, there was no restriction on the
power of the Crown to dismiss a servant, employed in the civil service, at
pleasure. The general English rule was that servants of the Crown could be
dismissed at the pleasure of the Crown. There was only one exception to this
rule and it was this that where an appointment was made under an Act of
Parliament providing dismissal for good cause, the servant could not be
dismissed at pleasure. This distinction between the two classes of cases was
pointed out by the Privy Council in -- 'Venkatarao v. Secretary of State', AIR
1937 PC 31 (B) where their Lordships quoted the opinion of Lord Hobhouse as
delivered in -- 'Shenton v. Smith', (1895) AC 229 (C).
"It appears to their Lordships that the proper grounds of decision in this
case have been expressed by Stone J. in the Full Court. They consider that,
unless in special cases where it is otherwise provided, servants of the Crown
hold their offices during the pleasure of the Crown; not by virtue of any
special prerogative of the Crown, but because such are the terms of their
engagement, as is well understood throughout the public service. If any public
servant considers that he has been dismissed unjustly, his remedy is not by a
law suit, but by an appeal of an official or political kind ......As for the
regulations, their Lordships again agree with Stone J. that they are merely
directions given by the Crown to the Governments of Crown Colonies for general
guidance, and that they do not constitute a contract between the Crown and its
servant."
11\. A special case such as was contemplated in the above cited passage
occurred in -- 'Gould v. Stuart', 1896 AC 575 (D) where the Board, consisting
of three members, two of whom had sat in 'Shenton's case (C)', held that the
respondent Stuart held office in New South Wales under certain conditions
expressly enacted in the body of the New South Wales Civil Service Act, 1884,
and that these express provisions of the statute were "inconsistent with
importing into the contract of service the term that the Crown may put an end
to it at its pleasure."
12\. This rule was applied to servants in the employ of the East India Co. --
'G. Gibson v. The East India Co.', (1838) 5 Bing (NC) 262 (E). After the
resumption of the Government of India by the Crown the same rule continued to
be in force up to 1919 when the Government of India Act was amended by the
insertion of section 86E. That section imposed one restriction upon the
dismissal of a civil servant at the pleasure of the Crown. The restriction was
that no civil servant might be dismissed by any authority subordinate to that
by which he was appointed. Subject to this there was no restriction upon the
power of the Crown to dismiss any person in the Civil Service at pleasure.
Section 96B, however, made reference to the rules made by Government and while
enacting the rule that the Crown could dismiss a person in Civil Service at
pleasure, it made it "subject to the provisions of this Act and of the rules
made thereunder".
Courts in India differed as to the precise scope of this phrase. One view was
that the power of the Crown to dismiss at pleasure was not unqualified but was
subject to the provisions of the rules applicable to the service to which the
person concerned belonged. The other view was that these rules and regulations
did not limit the power of the Crown to dismiss a servant at pleasure but were
merely rules of administration which would ordinarily be observed by the
Executive Government, but if not observed, itself conferred no right which
could be enforced in a court of law by a dismissed servant.
The matter went up to the Privy Council in two cases -- 'Venkata Rao v.
Secretary of State (B)', to which 'a reference has already been made and --
'Rangachari v. Secretary of State', AIR 1937 PC 27 (F). In both of these cases
the Privy Council upheld the latter view, namely, that the phrase "subject to
the provisions of this Act and of the rules made under the Act" did not limit
or qualify the unfettered discretion of the Crown to dismiss a servant in the
Civil Service at pleasure, that the remedy for the violation of the rules and
regulations was political and not legal. In the Government of India Act, 1935,
the position was altered. Under that Act, over and above, the restriction on
the pleasure of the Crown to dismiss a Civil Servant at pleasure which was
already embodied in Section 96B, another restriction was imposed and it was
that a Civil Servant could not be "dismissed or reduced in rank" unless the
parson concerned was given a reasonable opportunity of showing cause against
the action proposed to be taken against him. By this provision what was
embodied in some of the rules was given a statutory recognition.
Under Rule 55 of the Civil Service (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules
which were made under the provisions of the Government of India Act, 1919, a
Government servant in the civil service of the Crown was entitled to get a
reasonable opportunity of defending himself against the action proposed to be
taken against him. A similar provision was included in Section 240 of the
Government of India Act, 1935, and the right of opportunity being given for
showing cause was thus given a statutory recognition. Henceforth, the power of
the Crown to dismiss a servant at pleasure, which meant without giving any
opportunity to the dismissed servant, was no longer unfettered. The rule,
which had merely administrative or political efficacy having now been given
statutory recognition, imposed a statutory fetter on the power of the Crown to
dismiss a servant at pleasure, but the cases to which the fetter applied were
of (a) dismissal and of (b) reduction in rank, The word "removal" was not used
in the Government of India Act, 1935.
13\. Under Rule 49 of the Civil Service (Classification, Control and Appeal)
Rules several kinds of punishments could be inflicted for good and sufficient
reason on a civil servant. These included dismissal, reduction in rank and
also removal. The distinction between "dismissal" and "removal" was that while
dismissal entailed a liability' upon a dismissed servant not to be able to
seek a Government service again, "removal" did not have that effect. In the
case of "removal" Government servant could be granted under Rule 353 or 353A,
Civil Service Regulation, a compassionate allowance or even pension but to a
reduced extent. Upon "dismissal" there was no question of the grant of any
pension. "Removal" was, as used in Rule 49, by way of punishment.
A question arose under the Government of India Act, 1935, whether the
statutory protection afforded by Section 240 in case of "dismissal" and
"reduction in rank" also extended to the case of removal though the word
"removal" was not used in that section. In --'High Commr. for India v. I M.
Lall,' AIR 1948 PC 121 (G), Mr. I. M, Lall, a member of the Indian Civil
Service was removed from the Indian Civil Service but not dismissed in the
technical sense. The Privy Council considered the provisions of section 240,
sub-section (3) as applicable to the case of removal as well which word was
assumed to be comprised within the word "dismissal,"
14\. When the present Constitution was framed, in addition to the word
"dismissal" an opportunity was taken to add the word "removal" alter the word
"dismissal" and before the phrase "reduction in rank". As the phrase stands
now, "Dismissal, removal and reduction in rank", it reminds us of the
identical phrase used in Rule 55 of the Civil Service (Classification, Control
and Appeal) Rules. Rule 55 says : "Without prejudice to the provisions of the
Public Servants Inquiries Act, 1850, no order of 'dismissal,' 'removal' or
'reduction' shall be passed on a member of a service (other than an order
based on facts which had led to his conviction in a criminal court or by a
court-martial) unless he has been informed in writing of the grounds on which
it is proposed to take action, and has been afforded an adequate opportunity
of defending himself"............
This rule follows Rule 49 which prescribes the penalties which may, for good
and sufficient reason, be imposed upon members of the services. There can be
no doubt whatsoever that the phrase "dismissal, removal or reduction", as used
in Rule 55, has reference to "dismissal, removal and reduction in rank" which
are three out of several penalties provided in Rule 49. In the Civil Service
Regulations there are rules providing for pension in case of "removal from
service". Rules providing for pension on "removal" of a person inter alia are
Rules 353 and 353A. Rule 353 deals with pension when a person is removed for
misconduct, inefficiency or insolvency. The rule says that-
"no pension may be granted to an officer dismissed or removed for misconduct,
insolvency or inefficiency; but to officers so dismissed or removed
compassionate allowances may be granted when they are deserving of special
consideration provided that the allowances granted to any officer shall not
exceed two-thirds of the pension which would have been admissible to him if he
had retired on medical certificate".
15\. Rule 353A deals with pension when a person is removed from service when
found unfit for further advancement. It says that--"a person belonging to one
of the following services, who is proved to be unfit for further advancement,
is removed from service by the secretary of State on the recommendation of the
Local Government and the Government of India, he may with the sanction of the
Secretary of State, be granted a pension not usually exceeding, and not
necessarily so great as, that which would have been admissible to the officer
if he had been invalidated on medical certificate". Removal 'from service
under Rule 353A is also spoken of as "compulsory retirement" but this has
nothing to do with 'retirement' under Rule 405A.
16\. "Retirement" under the rules is of two kinds (a) retirement on reaching
the age of Superannuation which is fixed at 55, and in some cases at 60, and
(b) "retirement" on completion of 25 years of service. This last is dealt with
in Rule 465A which we have already quoted.
17\. "Retirement" under both these provisions is not spoken of as "removal" in
any of the rule's. It is conceded that "retirement" on reaching the age of
superannuation is not "removal" within the meaning of Article 311. The
essential difference between "removal" by way of penalty as provided for in
Rule 49 and other rules and "retirement" on attainment of period of qualifying
service as provided for in Rule 465A, is that while "removal" under Rule 49
and the other rules is always by way of penalty, "retirement" under Rule 465A
is not at all by way of penalty. The reasons for which a person may be retired
under Rule 465A are not specifically mentioned in that rule. The general
reason given is that "it is not in the public interest" to retain the services
of the officer concerned any longer. The reason why a person's continuance may
not be in the public interest may be wholly unconnected with any misconduct or
fault on his part. It is true that the retirement under Rule 465A may be taken
recourse to because of some misconduct or fault of an officer who has already
put in 25 years of service, but the question is whether the retirement
contemplated under that rule is intended to be by way of punishment or not.
18\. It has to be noted that the Rule 465A Speaks of retirement after
completion of a sufficiently long service. If it were intended to be a
provision by way of punishment, it could, one would have thought, be
applicable to a person at any period of his service. The compulsory retirement
after a sufficiently long period of service is to our mind of the class of
retirement upon the attainment of a particular age, that is to say, the age of
superannuation. This is not to say that the two retirements are identical. No
doubt they are different retirements -- one at the age of superannuation which
is common to everybody and the other at an earlier age; but even in the first
case, a servant can be retained in service for a further term for reasons to
be recorded. Retirement under Rule 465A is to be for Some reason, i. e. the
retention of the servant concerned not being in the public interest; and yet
when all this has been said, the two sorts of retirements are essentially
different from the "removal" spoken of in Rule 49 or which may be imposed by
way of, penalty or punishment. The effect of Rule 465A and the fundamental
Rule 56 taken together is that civil servants normally retire at the age of
55, that their services may be retained for special reasons to be recorded,
and similarly their services may be terminated earlier after completion of 25
years of service for special reasons. In our opinion, though Rule 465A is on
the border line between the rule of removal in Rule 49 and retirement under
the fundamental Rule 56, it partakes more of the nature of retirement under
fundamental Rule 56 than of removal under Rule 49. Juxtaposition of the words
"dismissal, removal and reduction in rank" in Article 311 shows that "removal"
is of a quality similar to "dismissal and reduction in rank" as "removal" is
sandwiched between "dismissal" and "reduction" in rank", both of which are
punishments.
19\. In our opinion, "removal" also, therefore, appears to be 'by way of
punishment'. Consequently, it must be held that a "retirement" under Section
465A is not comprised within the word "removal" in Article 311.
20\. This view is consistent with almost all the cases decided so far by the
various High Courts in India except one court. The cases in support of this
view are -- 'Jayanti Prasad v. State of Uttar Pradesh', AIR 1951 All 793 (H).
Delivering the judgment of the Bench it was observed by one of us-
"Article 311 applies only to a case in which a person is dismissed or removed
or reduced in rank. These are technical words used in cases in which a
person's services are terminated for misconduct. They do not apply to cases in
which a person's period of service determines in accordance with the
conditions of his service."
The same view was taken in -- 'Kewalmal v. Beta Ram', AIR 1952 Raj 17 (I); --
'State of Saurashtra v Bholanath Jatashanker', AIR 1952 Sau 49 (FB) (J) and --
'Varadaraja Iyer v. State of Trav-C', AIR 1953 Trav-C 140 (K). The decision in
-- 'C. Sambandam v. General Manager, South Indian Rly., Tiruchirapalli', AIR
1953 Mad 54 (L) is not contrary to the view that we have taken. In that case a
wire-man of the South Indian Railway was served with a notice under Rule 3 of
the Railway Services (Safeguarding of National Security) Rules, 1949, and he
was dismissed under that rule. The rule itself provided for termination of
services of a person who was engaged in subversive activities. The servant was
given an opportunity to show cause against the charge framed against him, but
he contended that he was not, given a second opportunity for showing cause
against the action proposed to be taken against him. He therefore applied
under Article 226 of the Constitution, alleging that his dismissal was
contrary to the provisions of Article 311. In argument it was urged on behalf
of the State that under Rule 143(4) of the Indian Railway Establishment Code
services could be terminated by giving a notice after a certain period; but
the Court held that the services of the employee were not terminated under
Rule 148 (4) though they could have been; and as they were terminated under
Rule 148(3), and no second opportunity for showing cause against the action
was given to him, his dismissal was irregular. The facts of the present case
are wholly dissimilar to the facts cf that case.
The only High Court which has taken a different view is the Pepsu High Court
in three cases, namely, -- 'Rama Iyer v. The State', AIR 1952 Pepsu 69 (M); --
'Ishar Das v. State of Pepsu', AIR 1952 Pepsu 148 (N); -- 'Shambhu Dayal v.
Patiala and East Punjab States Union'. AIR 1952 Pepsu 152 (O) and -- 'Anup
Singh v. The State', AIR 1953 Pepsu 24 (P).
These were all cases decided before the decision of the Supreme Ccurt in
'Satish Chandra's case (A)'. The view taken was that the word "removal"
includes a compulsory retirement under a rule of the State of Pepsu similar to
that embodied in Rule 465A. The context in which the word "removal" is used
and the source from which it is taken and the history of rule were not
referred to. The main ground of decision was that there was no reason why the
word "removal" should not be treated to have been used in its larger sense. We
have already shown the reason why it could not be taken to have been used in
its larger sense, and why it should be confined to cases in which "removal" is
by way of punishment or penalty.
The discussion of the word "removal" in AIR 1953 SC 250 (A) clearly supports
our view that the word "removal" was intended to import the idea of punishment
or penalty.
21\. This leads us to the other part of the argument of the learned counsel
for the applicant. According to him, Rule 465A was not validly made and is not
a statutory rule at all and, therefore, the applicant's removal under that
rule, is invalid. His argument is that the Civil Service Regulations in which
Rule 465A occurs were not made by the Secretary of State for India in Council,
and only the rules made by the Secretary of State in Council could apply to
the applicant who was appointed by him to the all India Service of Engineers
and, as such, his removal was illegal. Before the Government of India Act,
1919, came into force certain rules and regulations applicable to the. Civil
Servants of the Crown in India had been made by various authorities. As these
rules and regulation's were not made under any statutory power, it was doubted
whether they were of any legal validity. It was, therefore, provided in Sub-
section (4) to section 96B of the Government of India Act, 1919 as follows :
"For the removal of doubts it is hereby declared that all rules or other
provisions in operation at the time of the passing of Government of India Act,
1919, whether made by the Secretary of State in Council or by any other
authority, relating to the civil service of the Crown in India, were duly made
in accordance with the powers in that behalf, and are confirmed, but any such
rules or provisions may be revoked, varied or added to by rules or laws made
under this section."
22\. Thus all rules and regulations and other provisions which were in
operation at the commencement of the Government of India Act, 1919, were
validated and recognised as statutory. If Rule 465A was in force at that time,
it was validated under Sub-section (4) to section 96B. It has, however, not
been shown to us that this rule was in force at that time. All that has been
shown to us is that in 1922 Rule 465A was amended. When it was actually made
is not known. The rule, as it appears in it's present form was finally adopted
in the year 1922. It could not therefore, be said to have been validated and
made statutory by Sub-section (4) of Section 96B of the Government of India
Act, 1919. Under sub-section (2) of that section the Secretary of State in
Council was empowered to make rules for regulating the classification of the
civil services in India, the methods of their recruitment, their conditions of
service, pay and allowances, and discipline and conduct. He was also empowered
to delegate the power of making rules to the Governor-General in Council or to
local Governments or authorise the Indian legislature or local legislatures to
make laws regulating the public services. This sub-section did not empower the
Secretary of State in Council to delegate any power concerning rules relating
to pensions.
The power to make rules regarding pension was contained in Sub-section (3) of
that section. That sub-section provided that the right to pensions and the
scale and conditions of pensions of all persons in the civil service of the
Crown in India appointed by the Secretary of State in Council, shall be
regulated in accordance with the rules in force at the time of the passing of
the Government of India Act, 1919. Any such rules may be varied or added to by
the Secretary of State in Council and shall have effect as so varied or added
to, taut any such variation or addition Shall not adversely affect the pension
of any member of the service appointed before the date thereof. This sub-
section did not empower the Secretary of State in Council to delegate his
power to make rules regarding the pension to any other authority, and as we
have already noted it has not been Shown to us that Rule 465A was in existence
at the commencement of the Act of 1919. Therefore subject to what follows Rule
465A which in its present form was made in 1922 could not be said to have been
a statutory rule or a rule made by the Secretary of State in Council binding
on the applicant as such.
The Secretary of State for India in Council however made certain other rules
from time to time under Sub-sections (2) and (3) of Section 96B. These rules
appear in two classes
(a) the Civil Service (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules which were
first made in December 1920 and were modified from time to time and ultimately
published as rules of 1930 and modified subsequently as well and
(b) Fundamental Rules. These latter are contained in Section 2 of the
compilation entitled "Fundamental Rules and the Supplementary Rules issued by
the Government of India in 1949, III Edition."
23\. In Rule 7 of the Civil Service (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules
it is stated-
"Where by these rules power is delegated to, or conferred upon, any authority
to make rules regulating the classification, the methods of recruitment, the
conditions of service, the pay, allowances and pensions, or the discipline and
conduct of any class of the Civil Services specified in Rule 14, the rules,
notifications and orders, by whatsoever authority made, regulating these
matters in respect of that class which were in operation on the date these
rules were made shall remain in operation except in so far as they may be
inconsistent with these rules or may be specifically cancelled or modified in
exercise of the aforesaid power by the authority to which it is delegated."
Rule 26 of these rules lays down : "Rules regulating the conditions of
service, the pay and allowances and the pensions of members of the all-India
Services shall be made by the Secretary of State in Council".
24\. Since by Rule 26 of the aforesaid rules the Secretary of State in Council
is conferred the power of making rules for regulating the conditions of
service, the pay, allowances, and pension of members of the all-India Services
and he validated by Rule 7, the previous rules by whatsoever authority made
which were in operation on the date these rules were made, that is to say in
1930, they must be taken to have been recognised as valid by Rule 7. Rule 7,
therefore, in our opinion, impressed the stamp of validity upon the Civil
Service Regulations applicable to the all-India services in respect of
conditions of services, pay, allowances and pensions that were in force in
1930, This would include Rule 465A of the Civil Service Regulations. It
follows, therefore, that Rule 465A of the Civil Service Regulations had become
a valid rule as if it were made by the Secretary of State in Council when the
action was taken against the applicant.
25\. Reference was made in this connection by learned counsel for the
petitioner to Section 247 of the Government of India Act read with Section 250
thereof.
26\. Section 247 laid down the conditions of service of all persons appointed
to a civil service or a civil post by the Secretary of State and Section 250
laid down that the provisions of the last four preceding sections including
Section 247 and any rule's made thereunder shall apply to any person who was
appointed before the commencement of part III of this Act by the Secretary of
State in Council to a civil service of, or a civil post under, the Crown in
India as they apply to persons appointed to a civil service or civil post by
the Secretary of State.
27\. Section 247 referred to persons appointed after the commencement of the
Act of 1935 and the effect of Section 250 was that the rules made by the
Secretary of State in Council regulating the conditions of service of all
persons appointed after the commencement of the Act of 1935 were to apply to
persons who had already been appointed before the commencement of part III of
the Act by the Secretary of State in Council.
28\. The effect of these sections was, therefore, merely to apply rules, made
by the Secretary of Stats in Council after the commencement of the Act of 1935
to persons appointed by the Secretary of State in Council both before and
after the commencement of the Act of 1935. We are here not concerned with any
rule made by the Secretary of State in Council under Section 245 after the
commencement of the Act of 1935. We are here concerned with Rule 465A which
was made before the commencement of the Act of 1935, and which had been taken
by the Secretary of State in Council as a rule having been made by himself and
validated as such by Rule 7 of the Civil Service (Classification, Control and
Appeal) Rules, as (already stated. It cannot, therefore be said that Rule 465A
of the Civil Service Regulations was invalid, or not applicable to the
applicant by reason of its not having been made by the Secretary of State in
Council.
29\. It was next urged that Rule 465A did not apply to the service to which
the applicant belonged, namely, to the all-India Service of Engineers. This
contention was based upon Rules 649 and 650 of the Civil Service Regulations.
Rules 649 and 650 are embodied in Chapter XXX of the Civil Service Regulations
which are applicable to Civil Engineers arid Telegraph Officers. Section III
of this Chapter relates to compulsory retirement. Rules 649 and 650 are in
this section. Rule 649 says : "The compulsory retirement of Civil Engineers of
the Public Works Department or the Engineering Department of State Railways,
who are proved to be unfit for further advancement, is regulated by Article
353A. But any Civil Engineer of these Departments, who on reaching the age of
50 years has not attained the rank of Superintending Engineer, is liable to be
called on to retire by the Government of India."
Rule 650 says :
"All Civil Engineers in the Public Works and Railway Departments, Civilian
Under Secretaries in the Public Works Secretariat of the Government of India
or of a Local Government or Administration, and Civilians in the Superior
Railway Revenue Establishment, and in the Superior Establishment of the
Telegraph Department, are required to retire on attaining the age of 55
years."
Rule 650 is clearly a rule of retirement at the age of superannuation which is
fixed as 55 years. Rule 649 is a rule of compulsory retirement before
attaining that age-- firstly on the ground of unfitness for further
advancement, as regulated by Article 353A, and secondly on reaching the age of
50 years, provided the person concerned has not attained the rank of
Superintending Engineer. As the applicant had attained the rank of
Superintending Engineer the second part of Rule 649 does not apply to him. The
first part of the rule does apply to him, So does Rule 650.
30\. The argument is that since the first part of Rule 649, which regulates
premature compulsory retirement before the attainment of the age of
superannuation as applicable to the members of the Service of Civil Engineers
is specially provided for, the general rule embodied as applicable to all
services including the all-India Services of Civil Engineers, as embodied in
Section 465A, Civil Service Regulations, would not apply to the all-India
service of Civil Engineers. It is pointed out that where a special rule is
provided in a statute or body of rules, this Special rule has to be given
preference to a general rule on the same subject. The proposition of law thus
enunciated by learned counsel for the applicant is undoubted, but it does not
apply to the present case for the simple reason that Rule 649 does not deal
with the subject which is dealt with in Rule 465A. Rule 649 deals with
compulsory and premature retirement for a special cause "unfitness for further
advancement" which is dealt with in Rule 353A of the Civil Service
Regulations.
31\. Rule 465A, on the other hand, is a rule of retirement after completion of
25 years of service, when it is considered that his retention in the service
is not in the public interest. The two rules deal with different matters
though both of them may apply in the case of a particular individual at one
and the same time. We do not think that Rule 465A is at all affected by Rule
649 in the case of Civil Service of Engineers.
32\. Then it was said that Rule 465A must be deemed to have been abrogated or
cancelled by Rule 65 of the Fundamental Rules. Rule 56 provides for compulsory
retirement on the attainment of the age of superannuation which has been fixed
at 55 years. It also provides that a person may be retained in service after
that age up to the age of sixty if he continues to be efficient. He must not
be retained in service after that date except in very rare circumstances and
with the sanction of the local Government. The rule also provides for
compulsory retirement of Civil Engineers of the Public Works Department who
have reached the age of 50 years. They may) however, be required by Government
to retire on reaching the age of 50 years,' if they have not attained to the
rank of Superintending Engineer. Rule 55 does not deal with the Subject-matter
which is dealt with in Rule 465A and it cannot, therefore, be said that by
reason of Rule 55, Rule 465A should be deemed to have been cancelled or
abrogated.
33\. It was urged on behalf of the State by the learned Advocate General that
even if Article 311 of the Constitution applied to the case of retirement,
under Rule 465A, reasonable opportunity was, in fact given to the applicant by
this Court. His case was that Article 311 speaks of only one opportunity to be
given at the time of imposing punishment. It does not speak of any opportunity
being given at the time of investigation of the charges against the person
concerned. In Support of his argument learned Advocate General referred to
certain observations in AIR 1948 PC 121 (G). In that case their Lordships
pointed out that-
"Sub-section (3) of Section 240 of the Government of India Act, 1935, was not
intended to be, and was not, a reproduction of Rule 55, Civil Services
(Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, framed under Section 96E,
Government of India Act, 1919, which was left unaffected as an administrative
rule. Rule 55 is concerned that the civil servant shall be informed "of the
grounds in which it is proposed to take action" and to afford him an adequate
opportunity of defending himself against charges which have to be reduced to
writing; this is in marked contrast to the statutory provision of "a
reasonable opportunity of showing cause against the action proposed to be
taken in regard to him. No action is proposed within the meaning of the Sub-
section until a definite conclusion has been come to on the charges, and the
actual punishment to follow is provisionally determined on. Prior to that
stage, the charges are unproved and the suggested punishments are merely
hypothetical. It is on that stage being reached that the statute gives the
civil servant the opportunity for which Sub-section (3) makes provision. There
is no difficulty in the statutory opportunity being reasonably afforded at
more than one stage. If the civil servant has been through an enquiry under
Rule 55, it would not be reasonable that he should ask for a repetition of
that stage, if duly carried out, for that would not exhaust his statutory
right, and he would still be entitled to represent against the punishment
proposed as the result of the findings of the enquiry."
It was argued on the basis of this observation that under Article 311(2) the
reasonable opportunity, which is required to be given, is against the action
proposed to be taken which means against the punishment proposed to be imposed
and that since it was not necessary to give any opportunity to lead evidence
or to defend oneself by tendering evidence or advancing argument, it was
enough that an opportunity of submitting an explanation was given which was
condoned in the present case.
34\. It was urged that the phrase "showing cause" does not necessarily imply
that any opportunity, over and above the opportunity of submitting an
explanation, need be given. This contention, in our opinion, is not well-
founded. The phrase "showing cause" has been the subject-matter of discussion
in more than one case in this Court. In -- 'Avadhesh Pratap Singh v. State of
U.P.', AIR 1952 All 63 (Q) it was held that where an opportunity is required
to be given of "showing cause", the opportunity must be adequate. Enabling a
mere representation to be made is not the same thing as giving an opportunity
of showing cause. The expression "showing cause" was considered to connote an
opportunity of leading evidence in support of one's allegations and in
controverting such allegations as are made against one. This was followed in
-- 'Ravi Pratap Narain Singh v. State of Uttar Pradesh', AIR 1952 All 99 (R).
In that case the argument now advanced before us on the basis of the
observation made by the Privy Council in 'I. M. Lal's case (G)', was also
advanced, but it was rejected and the Bench deciding that case dealt with this
observation in the following words :
"It cannot be held that their Lordships ever meant to say that, at the
subsequent stage when a civil servant was called upon to show cause under Sub-
section (3) of Section 240, Government of India Act, 1935; he need not be
given any opportunity at all to give evidence. All that their Lordships said
was that it would not be reasonable that the civil servant should ask for a
repetition of the enquiry that had already been made under Rule 55 if that
enquiry had been duly carried out. This remark does not exclude the right of a
civil servant to give any evidence which he may not have been appropriately
required to give at the stage of the earlier enquiry under Rule 55. In fact,
the remark that it would not be reasonable that a civil servant should ask for
a repetition of the enquiry held under Rule 55 would appear to contain an
implication that if there had not been an earlier enquiry duly carried out, it
would have been held that the civil servant had a right at this subsequent
stage to adduce evidence when showing cause why the proposed action should not
be taken against him. The views of their Lordships of the Privy Council in
that case, therefore, only go to confirm our view."
We respectfully agree with this view. In our opinion, the expression "showing
cause" as, used in Article 311 does not imply that a mere opportunity of
submitting an explanation is enough. It implies that adequate opportunity of
leading evidence in support of the contentions of the person concerned and
controverting the contentions raised against him must be given; and where
necessary, opportunity of cross-examining witnesses of the other side and of
addressing arguments should also be afforded. No such thing was done in the
present case.
35\. Though reasonable opportunity of showing cause against the action
proposed to be taken against the applicant was not given, the order of the
17th of April 1953 having been passed under the provisions of Rule 465A of the
Civil Service Regulations, no such opporitunity was necessary; because the
compulsory retirement contemplated under that rule is not covered by Article
311 of the Constitution.
36\. The result, therefore, is that this application fails and is dismissed.
In the circumstances, we direct the parties to bear their own costs.
37\. Mr. Gopi Nath Kunzru, on behalf of the petitioner prays that a
certificate may be given to the applicant to the effect that the case involves
a substantial question of the interpretation of the Constitution and is
otherwise a fit one for appeal to the Supreme Court. We think that the case
involves a substantial question of the interpretation of the Constitution and
we also think that it is otherwise a fit case for appeal to the Supreme Court.
We, therefore, grant the certificate prayed for.
leading evidence in support of the contentions of the person concerned and
controverting the contentions raised against him must be given; and where
necessary, opportunity of cross-examining witnesses of the other side and of
addressing arguments should also be afforded. No such thing was done in the
present case.
35\. Though reasonable opportunity of showing cause against the action
proposed to be taken against the applicant was not given, the order of the
17th of April 1953 having been passed under the provisions of Rule 465A of the
Civil Service Regulations, no such opporitunity was necessary; because the
compulsory retirement contemplated under that rule is not covered by Article
311 of the Constitution.
36\. The result, therefore, is that this application fails and is dismissed.
In the circumstances, we direct the parties to bear their own costs.
37\. Mr. Gopi Nath Kunzru, on behalf of the petitioner prays that a
certificate may be given to the applicant to the effect that the case involves
a substantial question of the interpretation of the Constitution and is
by the Secretary of State for India in Council which prescribed 'inter alia'
the conditions governing the applicant's terms of appointment condition's of
service, promotion, leave, pension etc. A copy of the letter has been annexed
to the petition. After the attainment of Independence by India a fresh
covenant was entered into between him, and the Governor of Uttar Pradesh and
the Governor-General of India, by which the applicant's original conditions of
service were confirmed.
According to the applicant, he incurred the displeasure of certain colleagues
in the service whose work he had the misfortune to criticise in connection
with his routine duties as Superintending Engineer, and those person's started
making wrong reports against him. On January 4, 1950, the U.P. Government
addressed a letter No. 43-B/XIII/277-B-1948 to the Chief Engineer, Irrigation
Branch, U.P. asking for the applicant's explanation in respect of certain
charges. The charges related to certain alleged excess payments by him to
certain contractors which, in the opinion of the Government, were unjustified.
One of the charges, however, related to dishonest conduct,
2\. The applicant submitted his explanation to the charges to the Chief
Engineer. It appears that thereafter the Chief Engineer sent his own note in
reply to the applicant's explanation to the Union Public Service Commission,
which decided that the charge relating to dishonesty was not proved while the
leading evidence in support of the contentions of the person concerned and
controverting the contentions raised against him must be given; and where
necessary, opportunity of cross-examining witnesses of the other side and of
addressing arguments should also be afforded. No such thing was done in the
present case.
35\. Though reasonable opportunity of showing cause against the action
proposed to be taken against the applicant was not given, the order of the
17th of April 1953 having been passed under the provisions of Rule 465A of the
Civil Service Regulations, no such opporitunity was necessary; because the
compulsory retirement contemplated under that rule is not covered by Article
311 of the Constitution.
36\. The result, therefore, is that this application fails and is dismissed.
In the circumstances, we direct the parties to bear their own costs.
37\. Mr. Gopi Nath Kunzru, on behalf of the petitioner prays that a
certificate may be given to the applicant to the effect that the case involves
a substantial question of the interpretation of the Constitution and is
by the Secretary of State for India in Council which prescribed 'inter alia'
the conditions governing the applicant's terms of appointment condition's of
service, promotion, leave, pension etc. A copy of the letter has been annexed
to the petition. After the attainment of Independence by India a fresh
covenant was entered into between him, and the Governor of Uttar Pradesh and
the Governor-General of India, by which the applicant's original conditions of
service were confirmed.
According to the applicant, he incurred the displeasure of certain colleagues
in the service whose work he had the misfortune to criticise in connection
with his routine duties as Superintending Engineer, and those person's started
making wrong reports against him. On January 4, 1950, the U.P. Government
addressed a letter No. 43-B/XIII/277-B-1948 to the Chief Engineer, Irrigation
Branch, U.P. asking for the applicant's explanation in respect of certain
charges. The charges related to certain alleged excess payments by him to
certain contractors which, in the opinion of the Government, were unjustified.
One of the charges, however, related to dishonest conduct,
2\. The applicant submitted his explanation to the charges to the Chief
Engineer. It appears that thereafter the Chief Engineer sent his own note in
reply to the applicant's explanation to the Union Public Service Commission,
which decided that the charge relating to dishonesty was not proved while the
leading evidence in support of the contentions of the person concerned and
controverting the contentions raised against him must be given; and where
necessary, opportunity of cross-examining witnesses of the other side and of
addressing arguments should also be afforded. No such thing was done in the
present case.
35\. Though reasonable opportunity of showing cause against the action
proposed to be taken against the applicant was not given, the order of the
17th of April 1953 having been passed under the provisions of Rule 465A of the
Civil Service Regulations, no such opporitunity was necessary; because the
compulsory retirement contemplated under that rule is not covered by Article
311 of the Constitution.
36\. The result, therefore, is that this application fails and is dismissed.
In the circumstances, we direct the parties to bear their own costs.
37\. Mr. Gopi Nath Kunzru, on behalf of the petitioner prays that a
certificate may be given to the applicant to the effect that the case involves
a substantial question of the interpretation of the Constitution and is
by the Secretary of State for India in Council which prescribed 'inter alia'
the conditions governing the applicant's terms of appointment condition's of
service, promotion, leave, pension etc. A copy of the letter has been annexed
to the petition. After the attainment of Independence by India a fresh
covenant was entered into between him, and the Governor of Uttar Pradesh and
the Governor-General of India, by which the applicant's original conditions of
service were confirmed.
According to the applicant, he incurred the displeasure of certain colleagues
in the service whose work he had the misfortune to criticise in connection
with his routine duties as Superintending Engineer, and those person's started
making wrong reports against him. On January 4, 1950, the U.P. Government
addressed a letter No. 43-B/XIII/277-B-1948 to the Chief Engineer, Irrigation
Branch, U.P. asking for the applicant's explanation in respect of certain
charges. The charges related to certain alleged excess payments by him to
certain contractors which, in the opinion of the Government, were unjustified.
One of the charges, however, related to dishonest conduct,
2\. The applicant submitted his explanation to the charges to the Chief
Engineer. It appears that thereafter the Chief Engineer sent his own note in
reply to the applicant's explanation to the Union Public Service Commission,
which decided that the charge relating to dishonesty was not proved while the
leading evidence in support of the contentions of the person concerned and
controverting the contentions raised against him must be given; and where
necessary, opportunity of cross-examining witnesses of the other side and of
addressing arguments should also be afforded. No such thing was done in the
present case.
35\. Though reasonable opportunity of showing cause against the action
proposed to be taken against the applicant was not given, the order of the
17th of April 1953 having been passed under the provisions of Rule 465A of the
Civil Service Regulations, no such opporitunity was necessary; because the
compulsory retirement contemplated under that rule is not covered by Article
311 of the Constitution.
36\. The result, therefore, is that this application fails and is dismissed.
In the circumstances, we direct the parties to bear their own costs.
37\. Mr. Gopi Nath Kunzru, on behalf of the petitioner prays that a
certificate may be given to the applicant to the effect that the case involves
a substantial question of the interpretation of the Constitution and is
by the Secretary of State for India in Council which prescribed 'inter alia'
the conditions governing the applicant's terms of appointment condition's of
service, promotion, leave, pension etc. A copy of the letter has been annexed
to the petition. After the attainment of Independence by India a fresh
covenant was entered into between him, and the Governor of Uttar Pradesh and
the Governor-General of India, by which the applicant's original conditions of
service were confirmed.
According to the applicant, he incurred the displeasure of certain colleagues
in the service whose work he had the misfortune to criticise in connection
with his routine duties as Superintending Engineer, and those person's started
making wrong reports against him. On January 4, 1950, the U.P. Government
addressed a letter No. 43-B/XIII/277-B-1948 to the Chief Engineer, Irrigation
Branch, U.P. asking for the applicant's explanation in respect of certain
charges. The charges related to certain alleged excess payments by him to
certain contractors which, in the opinion of the Government, were unjustified.
One of the charges, however, related to dishonest conduct,
2\. The applicant submitted his explanation to the charges to the Chief
Engineer. It appears that thereafter the Chief Engineer sent his own note in
reply to the applicant's explanation to the Union Public Service Commission,
which decided that the charge relating to dishonesty was not proved while the
other charges were proved. On the arrival of this report, the President of
India passed an order on the 17th of April 1953 compulsorily retiring the
applicant from service with effect from the date of the handing over of the
charge by the applicant. Before the order could be served on him, the
applicant made an application to this Court under Article 226 of the
Constitution, praying that a writ of certiorari be issued quashing the
President's order dated the 17th April, 1953, ordering the compulsory
retirement of the petitioner. In this petition he alleged that the order had
not yet been served on him and that it might be served on him at any time. He
prayed for an 'ad interim' order directing the opposite parties, namely, the
State of Uttar Pradesh and the Union of India to refrain from relieving the
leading evidence in support of the contentions of the person concerned and
controverting the contentions raised against him must be given; and where
necessary, opportunity of cross-examining witnesses of the other side and of
addressing arguments should also be afforded. No such thing was done in the
present case.
35\. Though reasonable opportunity of showing cause against the action
proposed to be taken against the applicant was not given, the order of the
17th of April 1953 having been passed under the provisions of Rule 465A of the
Civil Service Regulations, no such opporitunity was necessary; because the
compulsory retirement contemplated under that rule is not covered by Article
311 of the Constitution.
36\. The result, therefore, is that this application fails and is dismissed.
In the circumstances, we direct the parties to bear their own costs.
37\. Mr. Gopi Nath Kunzru, on behalf of the petitioner prays that a
certificate may be given to the applicant to the effect that the case involves
a substantial question of the interpretation of the Constitution and is
by the Secretary of State for India in Council which prescribed 'inter alia'
the conditions governing the applicant's terms of appointment condition's of
service, promotion, leave, pension etc. A copy of the letter has been annexed
to the petition. After the attainment of Independence by India a fresh
covenant was entered into between him, and the Governor of Uttar Pradesh and
the Governor-General of India, by which the applicant's original conditions of
service were confirmed.
According to the applicant, he incurred the displeasure of certain colleagues
in the service whose work he had the misfortune to criticise in connection
with his routine duties as Superintending Engineer, and those person's started
making wrong reports against him. On January 4, 1950, the U.P. Government
addressed a letter No. 43-B/XIII/277-B-1948 to the Chief Engineer, Irrigation
Branch, U.P. asking for the applicant's explanation in respect of certain
charges. The charges related to certain alleged excess payments by him to
certain contractors which, in the opinion of the Government, were unjustified.
One of the charges, however, related to dishonest conduct,
2\. The applicant submitted his explanation to the charges to the Chief
Engineer. It appears that thereafter the Chief Engineer sent his own note in
reply to the applicant's explanation to the Union Public Service Commission,
which decided that the charge relating to dishonesty was not proved while the
other charges were proved. On the arrival of this report, the President of
India passed an order on the 17th of April 1953 compulsorily retiring the
applicant from service with effect from the date of the handing over of the
charge by the applicant. Before the order could be served on him, the
applicant made an application to this Court under Article 226 of the
Constitution, praying that a writ of certiorari be issued quashing the
President's order dated the 17th April, 1953, ordering the compulsory
retirement of the petitioner. In this petition he alleged that the order had
not yet been served on him and that it might be served on him at any time. He
prayed for an 'ad interim' order directing the opposite parties, namely, the
State of Uttar Pradesh and the Union of India to refrain from relieving the
leading evidence in support of the contentions of the person concerned and
controverting the contentions raised against him must be given; and where
necessary, opportunity of cross-examining witnesses of the other side and of
addressing arguments should also be afforded. No such thing was done in the
present case.
35\. Though reasonable opportunity of showing cause against the action
proposed to be taken against the applicant was not given, the order of the
17th of April 1953 having been passed under the provisions of Rule 465A of the
Civil Service Regulations, no such opporitunity was necessary; because the
compulsory retirement contemplated under that rule is not covered by Article
311 of the Constitution.
36\. The result, therefore, is that this application fails and is dismissed.
In the circumstances, we direct the parties to bear their own costs.
37\. Mr. Gopi Nath Kunzru, on behalf of the petitioner prays that a
certificate may be given to the applicant to the effect that the case involves
a substantial question of the interpretation of the Constitution and is
