Delhi High Court
Navigators Logistics Ltd. vs Kashif Qureshi & Ors on 17 September, 2018
    *      IN THE HIGH COURT OF DELHI AT NEW DELHI
    %                                  Date of decision: 17th September, 2018.
    +      CS(COMM) 735/2016, CCP(O) Nos.45/2016 & 46/2016, IAs
           No.7964/2016 (for directions), 7421/2016 (u/O XXXIX R-1&2
           CPC), 7422/1016 (u/O XXVI R-9&10 CPC) & 13684/2016 (u/O
           VII R-11 CPC)
           NAVIGATORS LOGISTICS LTD.                  ..... Plaintiff
                       Through: Mr. Tariq Muneer, Adv.
                                        Versus
        KASHIF QURESHI & ORS.                       ..... Defendants
                      Through: Mr. Rikky Gupta, Adv. for D-1,2,4,6 to
                               8.
                               Mr. Manish Vashisht & Mr. Sameer
                               Vashisht, Advs. for D-3&5.
                               Mr. Amarendra Kumar Dubey, Adv. for
                               D-11.
                               Mr. Murari Kumar & Mr. Santosh
                               Kumar Deepak, Advs. for D-12.
that as per the plaintiff also, there was no fixed term for which either of
the defendants no.1 to 8 had agreed to serve the plaintiff. The clause in the
Employment Contract claimed by the plaintiff also is to the effect that
CS(COMM) No.735/2016 Page 31 of 32 defendants no.1 to 8, for a period of one
year after ceasing to be the employee of the plaintiff, to not compete with
the plaintiff. Such a clause in the Employment Contract, as per the judgments
aforesaid of the Supreme Court, is void under Section 27 of the Contract Act.
Once the clause is void, there can be no injunction or damages in lieu of
injunction on the basis thereof.
57\. The permanent injunction and in the alternative damages claimed on the
premise of non-compete clause thus discloses no cause of action and is not
required to be put to trial.
58\. The plaint thus, as per the averments made in the plaint, does not
disclose the plaintiff to be entitled to the reliefs of injunction or damages
and is thus liable to be rejected and is rejected and the suit is dismissed.
Decree sheet be drawn.
                               Kumar Deepak, Advs. for D-12.
    CORAM:
    HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE RAJIV SAHAI ENDLAW
    1.
The plaintiff instituted this suit against as many as twelve defendants,
pleading i) that the plaintiff is engaged in the field of logistics and
freight forwarding services; ii) that the plaintiff has developed and evolved
very distinctive, detailed and comprehensive data, information and databases
pertaining to running of its business; iii) that this includes all the
confidential data, customer database, accounts information, airway drawings,
airway bills templates, plans, reports, taxes and other financial information;
iv) that the aforesaid confidential data and information CS(COMM) No.735/2016
Page 1 of 32 constitute the trade secrets of the plaintiff and are in the
digital format and are stored on computers, computer systems, computer
networks, computer resources and communication devices of the plaintiff; v)
that the said information, data and other related material are original
artistic and literary works of the plaintiff within the meaning of Section
2(c) and (o) of the Copyright Act, 1957; vi) that the plaintiff is the first
owner of the copyright in the said information, data and other related
materials; vii) that for the purpose of conducting its day-to-day business and
activities, the plaintiff engages the services of various employees; viii)
that owing to the sensitive nature of the information to which the said
employees would become privy, the plaintiff has got very stringent legal
documentation which it gets signed from all its employees at the time of
joining the employment; ix) that the defendant no.1 was employed as Customer
Service Executive, the defendant no.2 as Deputy Manager (Commercial), the
defendant no.3 as Assistant Manager (Pricing), the defendant no.4 as Customer
Service Executive, the defendant no.5 as Sales Executive, the defendant no.6
as Business Development Manager, the defendant no.7 as Assistant Manager
(Pricing) and defendant no.8 as Accounts Executive (Overseas) with the
plaintiff; x) that the Appointment Letters of the defendants contain inter
alia the following Clauses:
> "3. During the probation period your services maybe terminated with two
> week's notice or salary in lieu (Basic salary + All allowances / benefits /
> reimbursements) from either side. However, after the confirmation of
> service, the notice period would automatically stand revised to 1 (one)
> month from either side. The Company reserves the right to terminate your
> services without assigning any reasons by giving 1 month notice in writing
> or 1 month's salary in lieu thereof.
CS(COMM) No.735/2016 Page 2 of 32
> 5\. Incase an employees service is terminated with or without notice, or in
> the event the employee resigns from the service, then wherever applicable,
> the employee is first required to recover all the outstanding, (which the
> client / customer owes to the company), from any clients / customer, which
> client / customer has been generated by the employee. The Company will not
> issue a relieving letter or complete exit formalities without the employee
> first having collected such outstanding from the respective client /
> customer. The Company is at liberty to first adjust from any salaries and
> dues of such employee such outstanding amount, at the time of payment of
> final dues. It is also clarified that, where the Company receives or
> recovers such outstanding from the client / customer, the Company shall pay
> to the employee his / her dues so adjusted along with the relieving letter.
> However, where the Company incurs any cost (including for legal counsel's
> fees) for the purpose of recovery of any such outstanding from such client /
> customers, the same shall be adjusted with the salaries or payments of the
> employees at the discretion of the Management.
> 6\. The Company also reserves the right to terminate your services without
> any notice or salary in lieu thereof on the grounds of misconduct, integrity
> issue, or even in the case of reasonable suspicion of misconduct,
> disloyalty, commission of any act involving moral turpitude, or any act of
> indiscipline or inefficiency or loss of confidence.
> 8\. In the event of your reporting and joining the duties at the location
> specified, it shall be deemed that you acknowledge and accept to be governed
> by these terms and such other employment terms as may be made under the
> company's policies from time to time and such action of joining duties shall
> imply that you are aware of and have familiarized yourself with the terms
> and conditions of service.
> 16\. You will devote whole time and attention to the work of the company and
> will not engage yourself either paid or in the honorary capacity for any
> work other that the establishment works except with the prior written
> approval of the management.
> 17\. You are required to maintain the highest order of discipline and
> secrecy as regards the work of the company and / or its subsidiaries or
> Associate CS(COMM) No.735/2016 Page 3 of 32 companies and in case of any
> breach of discipline / trust, your services may be terminated by the company
> with immediate effect. You will not either during your employment with the
> company or after the termination of such employment divulge of give out in,
> any manner particulars or details of any of the trade secrets, research
> process, financial / administrative and / or organizational matters or any
> transactions or affairs of the company. All inventions, improvements,
> discoveries made by you either alone or with any other persons will become
> the sole property of the company. You will ensure that patent protections
> are obtained for such inventions / improvements and discoveries of India or
> elsewhere and assigned the same to the company.
> 18\. You will not be allowed to go to direct competition of any kind of
> business etc. with Navigators Logistics Pvt. Ltd. or any of its Group
> Companies. If found in such a situation you will be liable for legal action
> in the court and law.
> 19\. In the event of your leaving / termination of your services from the
> Company, this agreement binds and forbids you from setting up a company
> (proprietorship, private limited or otherwise) which is in direct
> competition with the services offered by Navigators Logistics Private
> Limited or any of its associate companies for a minimum period of one year.
> 20\. Apart from Certified Standing Orders any of you will be bound by any
> rules, regulations and office orders enforced by the management from time to
> time in relation to conduct, discipline, medical leave and holidays or any
> matters relating to service conditions.";
xi) that the plaintiff undertook extensive training of defendants no.1 to 8
and made the said defendants familiar with the confidential information and
data of the plaintiff; xii) that the defendants no.1 to 8 started doing their
respective jobs and started contributing towards generating business for the
plaintiff; during the period of their employment with the plaintiff, for the
purpose of effectively carrying on their official functions as employees of
the plaintiff, the plaintiff allocated the defendants no.1 to 8 various
CS(COMM) No.735/2016 Page 4 of 32 computer devices and computer resources
including laptops, mobile phone, desktops and data cards; xiii) that all the
confidential data, information and trade secrets of the plaintiff were
resident on the said laptops and mobile phones allocated to the defendants
no.1 to 8; xiv) that the defendants no.1 to 8 were also given official e-mail
IDs for the purpose of official communications and access to the official
cloud of computer resources of the plaintiff company; xv) that aforesaid
electronic devices used by the defendants no.1 to 8 contained the confidential
data, customer data, members accounts information airways, airway bills, plain
reports, taxes and other confidential information and trade secrets of the
plaintiff; xvi) that the defendants no.1 to 8, in conspiracy with each other,
decided to start sending their resignations through e-mails; the defendant
no.2 resigned on 9th May, 2016, the defendant no.1 on 19th May, 2016, the
defendant no.3 on 25th May, 2016, defendant no.4 on 20th May, 2016, defendant
no.5 on 19th May, 2016, defendant no.6 on 20th May, 2016, defendants nos.7 & 8
on 25th May, 2016; xvii) that the defendants no.1 to 8, during the notice
period of 30 days, stopped coming to the office of the plaintiff, while
continuing to retain the confidential data information and trade secrets of
the plaintiff residing in the electronic devices handed over to the said
defendants for the purposes of performing works for the plaintiff; xviii) that
the said electronic devices were returned, by the defendant no.1 on 27th May,
by the defendant no.2 on 13th May, by the defendant no.3 on 25th May, by the
defendants no.4,5 and 6 on 20th May; xix) that the perusal of the laptops
showed the confidential data information and the trade secrets of the
plaintiff had been deleted; however on data recovery being undertaken by the
plaintiff, deleted Skype chats between the defendants no.1 to 8 inter se were
CS(COMM) No.735/2016 Page 5 of 32 recovered which showed a conspiracy having
been hatched to use the confidential data information and trade secrets of the
plaintiff to the detriment of the plaintiff and to further the business
interest of the defendants, proving that the defendants have acted contrary to
the terms of their employment; xx) that the aforesaid Skype chats also showed
the defendants to have entered into a conspiracy to divert the existing
business of the plaintiff company to defendant no.12 Carex Cargo Express Pvt.
Ltd.; xxi) that while the defendant nos.1,4,5 and 6 belonged to the Sales
Department of the plaintiff, defendant nos.2 and 3 worked in the Pricing and
Commercial Department and the defendant nos.7 and 8 in the Accounts
Department; (xxii) the defendants also diverted shipment of the customers of
the plaintiff to defendant no.12 Carex Cargo India Pvt. Ltd; xxiii) that the
defendants no.1 to 8 are using the information and data which they got from
the plaintiff, while in employment of the plaintiff, to the detriment of the
plaintiff; (xxiv) the defendant nos.1 to 8 leaked the confidential data and
information of the plaintiff to defendant nos.9 to 11 i.e. Ankita Ladha,
Bhawna Kanojia and Sudhir Kadam; and, (xxv) the defendants are infringing the
copyright of the plaintiff in its confidential data information and trade
secrets.
2\. On the aforesaid pleas, the plaintiff have sought the reliefs of, (i)
permanent injunction restraining the defendants from violating the plaintiff's
copyright in its original literary and artistic works and the plaintiff's
confidential data information and trade secrets resident in the electronic
devices of the plaintiff handed over to the defendants during the course of
their employment with the plaintiff; (ii) permanent injunction restraining the
defendants from carrying out any business with the CS(COMM) No.735/2016 Page 6
of 32 copyright material belonging to the plaintiff; (iii) permanent
injunction restraining the defendants from creating any third party rights in
the copyright material of the plaintiff; (iv) permanent injunction restraining
the defendants from disclosing the confidential information and data of the
plaintiff to any other person; (v) permanent injunction restraining the
defendant nos.1 to 8 from competing with the plaintiff for a period of one
year; (vi) mandatory injunction directing the defendant nos.1 to 8 to disclose
to the Court the use made by them of the copyright material of the plaintiff;
(vii) mandatory injunction directing the defendants no.1 to 8 to hand over the
data and other confidential information of the plaintiff to the plaintiff;
(viii) rendition of accounts; and, (ix) recovery of Rs.1,50,00,000/- jointly
and severally from all the defendants.
3\. The suit came up before this Court first on 3 rd June, 2016 when, while
issuing summons of the suit, vide ex parte ad interim order the defendants
were restrained from, in any manner, utilizing, exploiting, copying,
transmitting, publishing or releasing any confidential information and trade
secrets of the plaintiff to any entity for any purpose whatsoever. On
application of the plaintiff, commissions were also issued to visit the
premises of the defendants, to scan the computer systems and emails of the
defendants and locate the documents which had originated from the plaintiff
and to seize the computer systems if the same were found to contain
confidential information or trade secrets of the defendants. The said order
was partly modified on 10th June, 2016 on the asking of the plaintiffs.
4\. Written statements have been filed by all the defendants.
CS(COMM) No.735/2016 Page 7 of 32
5\. The defendants no.1,2,4 and 6 to 8, in their joint written statement, have
inter alia pleaded (i) that the plaintiff has failed to plead or disclose the
author of the copyrighted works or having acquired such copyright from the
authors of the copyrighted works; (ii) no particulars of the copyright had
been given and allegations made are only in regard to data of the clients
which primarily includes names, address, contact numbers etc. of the clients
and which are neither any original literary work nor has any artistic
rendering which could be capable of acquiring any copyright; (iii) that the
plaintiff has not pleaded or disclosed as to what constitutes the data base;
(iv) that the plaint is highly vague and lacks material particulars; (v) that
no particulars of any trade secret or confidential information which have been
alleged to have been misused have also been furnished; (vi) that the suit is
barred by Section 27 of the Contract Act and the reliefs claimed are violative
of the fundamental rights of the defendants under Articles 19(1)(g) and 21 of
the Constitution of India; (vii) that the plaintiff is trying to curtail the
right of the defendants to work and to earn their livelihood; (viii) that the
plaintiff has filed the present suit as a disgruntled employer and only as a
tool for harassing its former employees and to exact revenge from them for
leaving the employment of the plaintiff; (ix) that the plaintiff, in the garb
of confidentiality, is seeking to create a monopoly of its business by trying
to retain its clients when the plaintiff has no such right; (x) that even if
the plaintiff company maintains written records of its customers, the same
cannot amount to copyright and on such basis no restraint can be claimed
against the competitors; (xi) that the plaintiff has no exclusive right to
deal with its customers; (xii) that details of customers are neither trade
secrets nor are property of the plaintiff; (xiii) that an original literary
work would CS(COMM) No.735/2016 Page 8 of 32 imply a proof as to putting in a
skill, judgment, work and expertise of the author of such work and cannot be a
mere collection of information; (xiv) that the plaintiff merely wants to
prevent its employees from wanting to move to greener pastures; (xv) that the
plaintiff has sent communications to its various business partners and
customers informing them of the defendants having left the employment of the
plaintiff and containing contents defamatory of the defendants; (xvi) that the
plaintiff had also not cleared the arrears of dues / emoluments of the
defendants for the period of employment with the plaintiff; (xvii) that there
is no confidentiality about the financial dealings of the plaintiff with its
customers since the freight charges are based on demand and supply and are the
rates assigned by the carriers plus a certain percentage of profit; the said
carriage rates are common knowledge; service providers provide competitive
rates to the customers which are then compared by the customers; (xviii) that
the defendants left the employment of the plaintiff for better prospects;
(xix) that there is no appointment letter in respect of defendants no.2,4 and
5; (xx) that the terms and conditions of the appointment letter are one sided
and are not only onerous but are not enforceable and not every employee was
made to sign conditions which the defendants no.2,4 and5 were made to sign;
(xxi) that the custody of the electronic devices allocated by the plaintiff to
its employees remained in the office only and the said devices were taken out
only for clients meetings and all the devices have been returned by the
defendants to the plaintiff; (xxii) that no confidential data or trade secret
of the plaintiff resided on the laptops / mobile phones; (xxiii) the
defendants did not stop going to the office of the plaintiff; rather it was
the plaintiff who did not allow defendants to serve their notice period and
CS(COMM) No.735/2016 Page 9 of 32 asked the defendants not to report for work;
and, (xxiv) that there exist no Skype chats.
6\. Written statement of the defendants no.3 and 5 is on the same lines as the
written statement of the other defendants, contents whereof have been
enumerated hereinabove.
7\. The defendant no.11, in its written statement has pleaded (a) that he
works as an independent commission agent for small businesses and designs and
prints visiting cards, letter heads and does other printing related work; (b)
that the said defendant used to do printing work for the plaintiff also; (c)
that the defendant no.1 approached the said defendant through Skype to design
a logo, visiting cards and letter heads for a new company and the said
defendant sent a sample through Skype to the defendant no.1;
(d) that the other e-mails between the said defendant and the defendant no.1
were with respect to printing and designing of logo, visiting cards, envelops
and letterheads only; and (e) that no data of the plaintiff which constitutes
confidential information or trade secrets was found by the Commissioner who
visited the premises of the said defendant.
8\. The defendants no.9 and 10 in their joint written statement have denied
the claim in the plaint and also pleaded that they have no privity of contract
with plaintiff. Neither in the plaint nor in the written statement of
defendants no.9&10 is it pleaded, whether the defendants no.9 & 10 are
employees/proprietors/directors of defendant no.12 Carex Cargo Express Pvt.
Ltd. and if not, in what capacity have the defendants no.1 to 8 or any of them
dealt with defendants no.9&10\. The plaint however in para 71 states CS(COMM)
No.735/2016 Page 10 of 32 that there is no legally incorporated entity as
defendants no.12 Carex Cargo Express Pvt. Ltd.
9\. The defendant no.12 Carex Cargo Express Pvt. Ltd. in its written
statement, while denying/disputing the claim of plaintiff, pleaded that the
suit is a counterblast to the complaint filed by said defendant against
plaintiff, of cheating and criminal breach of trust for representing itself to
be the agent of defendants no.12 Carex Cargo Express Pvt. Ltd. and taking
delivery of a shipment meant for defendants no.12 Carex Cargo Express Pvt.
Ltd.
10\. Though plaintiff has filed replications to written statements aforesaid,
but of denial of contents of written statement and reiteration of contents of
plaint.
11\. The defendants no.3 and 5, vide CM No.13684/2016 have sought rejection of
the plaint on the same grounds as enumerated in the written statement of the
said defendants. The plaintiff has filed a reply to the said application,
generally denying the contents of the application.
12\. It is the contention of the counsel for the applicants / defendants
no.3&5, that the plaintiff, nowhere in the plaint, has disclosed any work in
which it may have any copyright or any information which may be confidential
and which may have been entrusted to any of the defendants and the Clause in
the agreements, that the defendants 1 to 8, for a period of one year after
leaving the employment of the plaintiff, cannot engage themselves in any
competing activities, is violative of Section 27 of the Indian Contract Act,
1872. It is further stated that in any case the said period of one year is
over.
CS(COMM) No.735/2016 Page 11 of 32
13\. The counsel for the parties were heard on aforesaid application on 18th
December, 2017 and part order also dictated in Court but hearing could not be
completed and was adjourned to the next day i.e. 19 th December, 2017 and
thereafter from time to time and the counsels were further heard on 24th
January, 2018 when the counsel for the plaintiff also handed over written
submissions. Though the order was intended to be completed in Chamber on the
same day but remained to be completed and this judgment is being pronounced
today after the Court Master has intimated the counsels telephonically.
14\. The counsel for the plaintiff drew attention to Skype chat inter se the
defendants no.1 to 8 and also of defendant no.1 with the defendants no.10 and
11 and to the e-mail exchanged between the defendants no.1 to 8 and defendant
no.12 Carex Cargo Express Pvt. Ltd. Attention is also invited to reports of
the Commissions issued to the effect that the computer systems of the
defendants were found to have the list of names and contact numbers of
customers/clients of the plaintiffs and emails inter se as well as emails with
present employees of the plaintiff. It was further argued that the plaintiff
is the owner of the copyright, as per Section 17 of the Copyright Act, of the
data pertaining to the business of the plaintiff. Reliance was also placed on
(i) Burlington Home Shopping Pvt. Ltd. Vs. Rajnish Chibber 1995 (35) DRJ 335;
(ii) Diljeet Titus, Advocate Vs. Alfred A. Adebare (2006) 130 DLT 330; and,
(iii) Mayar (H.K.) Ltd. Vs. Owners & Parties, Vessel M.V. Fortune Express
(2006) 3 SCC 100. It was further contended that the grounds urged do not
constitute grounds for rejection of the plaint.
CS(COMM) No.735/2016 Page 12 of 32
15\. Per contra, the counsels for the defendants, besides raising the same
arguments as raised in the written statements, also for rejection of plaint,
have relied on my judgment in Tech Plus Media Private Ltd. Vs. Jyoti Janda
(2014) 60 PTC 121.
16\. Reliefs claimed in the suit may be grouped as, (i) for permanent
injunction restraining infringement of copyright and for recovery, purportedly
of damages, for infringing copyright of the plaintiff; (ii) for permanent
injunction enforcing the clauses, in the claimed employment contracts,
whereunder the defendants no.1 to 8 had agreed not to divulge, during
employment with the plaintiff or even after leaving the employment of the
plaintiff, any trade secrets, research process, financial/administrative
and/or organizational matters or any transactions or affairs of the plaintiff
to anyone else and/or damages for breach thereof; and, (iii) for permanent
injunction enforcing the clauses, in the claimed employment contracts,
whereunder the defendants no.1 to 8 had agreed not to compete with the
plaintiff for a period of one year after leaving employment of the plaintiff,
either by carrying on the same business themselves or by joining employment of
any competitor of the plaintiff and/or damages for breach thereof.
17\. What has to be seen at this stage is, whether in the event of the
plaintiff proving the averments in the plaint and the documents filed
therewith (and without noticing any of the defences of the defendants save
legal ones) the suit can succeed. If it is found that even if the plaintiff
were to prove what is pleaded in the plaint, the plaintiff still has no chance
of succeeding in the suit, a case for rejection of plaint at this stage only
will be CS(COMM) No.735/2016 Page 13 of 32 made out. The Division Bench of
this Court in Dr. Zubair Ul Abidin Vs. Sameena Abidin @ Sameena Khan (2014)
214 DLT 340 (DB) (SLP(C) No.369-370/2015 preferred whereagainst was dismissed
on 16th January, 2015) has, referring to various earlier judgments held that
if on a meaningful, not formal, reading of the plaint, it is found to be not
disclosing a right to sue or the claim therein is found to be barred by any
law or it is found that there is absolutely no chance of success on such
averments, the Court should exercise its power and should not allow it to
create an illusion and should not permit it to go to trial and such docket
which are deadwood should not be permitted to burden the Court. Reference in
this regard context may also be made to Geodis Overseas Pvt. Ltd. Vs. Punjab
National Bank 2016 SCC OnLine Del 1037.
18\. I will first take up the claim of the plaintiff on the basis of
copyright.
19\. The plaintiff, in para 5 of the plaint, claims copyright, as under:-
> "5. That the plaintiff has developed and evolved very distinctive, detailed
> and comprehensive data, information and databases pertaining to running its
> business. This includes all the confidential data, customer database,
> accounts information, airway drawings, airway bills templates, plans,
> reports, taxes and other financial information, process,
> financial/administrative and/or organizational information as well as
> transactions based templates and internal notings and trade secrets of the
> plaintiff company. The plaintiff has collated all its experiences together
> not only from India but from around the world pertaining specifically to the
> operation of its business and has documented the same in the form of
> confidential data and information as also confidential databases, including
> data and information in the electronic form."
CS(COMM) No.735/2016 Page 14 of 32
> and in para 7 of the plaint, further pleaded as under:-
> "7. That the said information, data and other related materials are original
> artistic and literary works of the plaintiff within the meaning of Section
> 2(c) and (o) respectively of the Copyright Act, 1957. The plaintiff has got
> copyright in the said information, data and other related materials under
> Section 13 of the Copyright Act, 1957\. The plaintiff is the first owner of
> the copyright in the said information, data and other related materials
> under Section 17 of the Copyright Act."
> 20\. It is the case of the defendants that there can be no copyright in
> customer database, accounts information, airway drawings, airway bills
> templates etc.
21\. The plaintiff, save for the aforesaid description, has not given any
other description of the works in which it claims copyright and no document
also has been filed in this regard. As per the reports of the commissions
issued at the instance of the plaintiff also, what has been found in
possession of the defendants is the list of customers and clients serviced by
the plaintiff and their contact persons. Though the Commissioners have
reported also finding e-mails/skype chats inter se the defendants while
working with the plaintiff and/or e-mails between the defendants and present
employee of the plaintiff, but there can possibly be no copyright therein.
22\. What is thus for adjudication is, whether there can be any copyright in a
list of customers/clients with their contact persons/numbers maintained by the
service provider. Though the plaintiff has in the plaint generally pleaded
database pertaining to, running of business accounts information, airway
drawings, airway bills templates, plans, reports, taxes and other CS(COMM)
No.735/2016 Page 15 of 32 financial information, process,
financial/administrative and/or organizational information as well as
transactions based templates and internal notings and trade secrets of the
plaintiff company, but the said words/phrases, though high-sounding, are vague
and do not constitute a plea in law within the meaning of Order VI Rules 2,4,9
and Order VII Rules 1(e) and 7 of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (CPC). In
this context, it may be also mentioned that using such high-sounding/phrases
which in fact have no content or meaning, a large number of suits are filed in
this Court against the ex-employees and it has often been found that interim
injunctions issued restraining the ex-employees from divulging the same to any
other person remain unenforceable in the absence of particulars and with
applications under Order XXXIX Rule 2A of the CPC being filed with respect to
all communications made by such employees with others and with it being
absolutely impossible for the Court to determine whether the communication is
in violation of the interim order. It is for this reason only that Section
41(f) of the Specific Relief Act, 1963, and principles whereof are applicable
to temporary injunctions also, prohibits grant of injunction to prevent, on
the ground of nuisance, an act of which it is not reasonably clear that it
will be a nuisance. Similarly, without specifying the information, disclosure
of which is sought to be restrained, an injunction cannot be granted; rather I
have wondered the purport of the interim order dated 3rd June, 2016 in this
suit, restraining the defendants from utilizing, exploiting, copying,
transmitting, publishing or releasing any confidential information and trade
secrets of the plaintiff to any entity for any purpose whatsoever, without
specifying as to which is that confidential information and trade secret. It
is for this reason that I have hereinabove observed that CS(COMM) No.735/2016
Page 16 of 32 what is for adjudication is, whether list of customers/clients
with their contact numbers prepared/drawn up by a service provider can be said
to be a work in which such service provider can have copyright.
23\. Copyright, as distinct from a trademark, is a statutory and not a common
law right or a natural right. Reference if any in this regard can be made to
Time Warner Entertainment Company L.P. Vs. RPG Netcom (2007) 140 DLT 758,
Entertainment Network (India) Ltd. Vs. Super Cassette Industries Ltd. (2008)
13 SCC 30 and Krishika Lulla Vs. Shyam Vithalrao Devkatta (2016) 2 SCC 521.
Thus unless it can be found that a copyright vests in such a list under the
Copyright Act, the plaintiff cannot have any right in the list
maintained/prepared/compiled by the plaintiff of its customers/clients with
their contact persons/numbers.
24\. Per Section 13(1) of the Copyright Act, copyright subsists in the
following classes of works, that is to say:-
> "(a) original literary, dramatic, musical and artistic works;
> (b) cinematograph films; and ,
> (c) sound recording".
25\. The list aforesaid is not a cinematograph film or a sound recording. The
first question to be thus determined is, whether the said list qualifies as an
original literary, dramatic, musical and artistic work.
26\. The list does not fall in the definition of artistic work or dramatic
work or musical work, as defined in Section 2(c),(h) & (p) respectively.
Literary work is defined in Section 2(o) as including computer programmes,
tables CS(COMM) No.735/2016 Page 17 of 32 and compilations including computer
databases. The definition of literary work is inclusive and the inclusion
contains compilations.
27\. The question which thus arises is, whether all compilations are literary
work in which copyright can subsist.
28\. As practicing Advocate, the list/compilation of my clients and their
phone numbers was generated by my smartphone by entering the list of contacts
in my phone. I never considered the same as a literary work or myself as the
author of the said list/compilation.
29\. In Burlington Home Shopping Pvt. Ltd. supra, a single Judge of this Court
was concerned, with an application for interim relief in a suit by mail order
service company against its ex-employee for injunction restraining breach of
copyright and confidentiality, pleading that compilation of addresses was
developed by devoting time, money, labour and skill, though the sources may be
commonly situated, amounted to a `literary work' wherein an author has a
copyright. Finding, that the database available with defendant therein was
substantially a copy of the database available with the plaintiff therein and
compiled by the plaintiff therein, interim injunction was granted. Similarly,
in Diljeet Titus, Advocate supra, another single Judge held in the context of
an Advocate/law firm that copyright subsists in a list containing details
about the particular persons such law firm is handling and the nature of the
work or the contact person in the client's company and especially designed by
an Advocate of his Court matters. The third judgment cited by counsel for
plaintiff, viz. Mayar (H.K.) Ltd. supra is not on the aspect of copyright but
on Order VII Rule 11 of the CPC.
CS(COMM) No.735/2016 Page 18 of 32
30\. I have in Tech Plus Media Private Ltd., relied upon by the counsel for
the defendants and against which no appeal is found to have been preferred, in
the context of a list of names and address of visitors to the new portals of
the plaintiff in that case or the comments of such visitors, held that the
plaintiff could not be said to be the author or composer or having
contribution in the same. Burlington Home Shopping Pvt. Ltd. and Diljeet
Titus, Advocate supra were noticed but it was further held (i) that both the
said judgments are of a date prior to the pronouncement of the Supreme Court
in Eastern Book Company Vs. D.B. Modak (2008) 1 SCC 1, laying down (i) that to
claim copyright in a compilation, the author must produce the material with
exercise of his skill and judgment which may not be creativity in the sense
that it is novel or non-obvious but at the same time it is not a product
merely of labour and capital; and, (ii) that the exercise of skill and
judgment required to produce the work must not be so trivial that it could be
characterized as a purely mechanical exercise. Accordingly, it was held that
copy edited judgments would not satisfy the copyright merely by establishing
amount of skill, labour and capital put in the inputs of the copy edited
judgments as the original or innovative thoughts for the creativity are
completely excluded. Notice in Tech Plus Media Private Ltd. was also taken of
Emergent Genetics India Pvt. Ltd. Vs. Shailendra Shivam 2011 (47) PTC 494.
Reliance in Tech Plus Media Private Ltd. was also placed on Dr. Reckeweg & Co.
GMBH Vs. Adven Biotech Private Ltd. 2008 (38) PTC 308 (Del), wherein, dealing
with the issue of copyright in a compilation in a brochure, of nomenclature of
drugs, the listing of the medicines in a particular fashion, the description
and the curative effect, the principle of law enunciated by the Supreme Court
in Eastern Book Company supra was CS(COMM) No.735/2016 Page 19 of 32 applied.
It was held that no copyright subsists therein in the absence of employment of
any skill judgment and labour in compilation thereof. It was further held that
without specifically averring as to the manner/technique/criteria employed in
such sequencing/collection and the originality in the same, the plaintiff
could not succeed in its claim. It was yet further held that the compilation
in that case was a derivative work in the sense of being a collection of
sequencing of already existing information and did not satisfy the standard of
creativity required to qualify as a work in which copyright subsists. It was
explained that the standard of creativity required in such derivative work is
higher than the standard required in cases of primary works. Resultantly, the
plaint in Tech Plus Media Private Ltd. was rejected.
31\. I may state that the pleadings in the present suit are equally vague as
in Tech Plus Media Private Ltd. There is no averment in the plaint of the
technique/criteria in compiling the list of customers.
32\. Further, Section 13(2) is as under:-
> "Copyright shall not subsist in any work specified in sub- section (1),
> other than a work to which the provisions of section 40 or section 41 apply,
> unless,--
> (i) in the case of a published work, the work is first published in India,
> or where the work is first published outside India, the author is at the
> date of such publication, or in a case where the author was dead at that
> date, was at the time of his death, a citizen of India;
> (ii) in the case of an unpublished work other than a work of architecture,
> the author is at the date of the making of the work a citizen of India or
> domiciled in India; and CS(COMM) No.735/2016 Page 20 of 32
> (iii) in the case of work of architecture, the work is located in India.
> Explanation.-- In the case of a work of joint authorship, the conditions
> conferring copyright specified in this sub-section shall be satisfied by all
> the authors of the work."
33\. Thus, even if list compiled/prepared by the plaintiff of its
customers/clients with contact persons/numbers were to qualify as a original
literary, dramatic, musical and artistic works (it cannot possibly be a
cinematographic film or a sound recording), copyright will not vest therein
unless the said list has been published or unless the said list, if
unpublished, is authored by a citizen of India or domiciled in India.
34\. Section 3 of the Copyright Act defines 'publication' as, making a work
available to the public by issue of copies or by communicating the work to the
public. It is not the case of the plaintiff that it has published the said
list, for clause (i) of Section 13(2) to apply. For clause (ii) of Section
13(2) to apply, the author of the list has to be citizen, of India or
domiciled in India. The plaintiff claims ownership of copyright under Section
17 of the Act, presumably under clause (c) thereof. However, the plaintiff has
not disclosed the name of the author, who was employed with the plaintiff. The
plaintiff, which is a company, cannot be the author. This Court in Rupendra
Kashyap Vs. Jiwan Publishing House Pvt. Ltd. 1994 (28) DRJ 286 held, in the
context of question papers for an examination, that the author of the
examination paper is a person who has compiled the questions; the person who
does this compiling, is a natural person, a human being, and not an artificial
person; Central Board of Secondary Education is not a natural person--it would
be entitled to claim copyright in the examination CS(COMM) No.735/2016 Page 21
of 32 papers only if it establishes and proves that it has engaged persons
specifically for purposes of preparation of compilation, known as question
papers, with a contract that copyright therein will vest in Central Board of
Secondary Education. I also, in Tech Plus Media Private Ltd. supra have held
that a juristic person is incapable of being the author of any literary work
in which a copyright may exist, though may be owner of copyright. The
plaintiff has not disclosed the identity of author. The plaintiff does not
claim any confidentiality about such identity. It was essential for the
plaintiff to disclose identity of the author, to claim ownership of copyright.
35\. In my opinion, for this reason alone, there can be no copyright in the
plaintiff in the list aforesaid.
36\. The reliefs claimed by the plaintiff on the basis of copyright thus have
no chance of success in the suit and the plaint is liable to be rejected,
insofar as on the premise of copyright.
37\. That brings me to the second premise on which the plaintiff has claimed
the reliefs i.e. enforcement of clauses in the employment contracts which
prohibited the defendants No.1 to 8 from divulging confidential information of
the plaintiff.
38\. In fact, it is this part of this judgment which has led to the delay in
pronouncement thereof as I was quite hazy and foggy about such rights of
confidentiality, under the contract and otherwise and enforceability thereof.
39\. Confidentiality and secrecy is claimed in the same works in which
copyright is claimed viz. data, information and trade secrets residing in the
electronic devices without again specifying the particulars thereof or secrecy
thereof. Mere mention of research process, financial / administrative and / or
CS(COMM) No.735/2016 Page 22 of 32 organizational matter or transaction or
affairs of the company or invention or discovery or patent protection does not
satisfy the requirements of pleadings. The plaintiff as per its own admission
is engaged in the business of providing logistics and freight forwarding
services and is not engaged in any research work, it was incumbent for the
plaintiff to, in the plaint, plead how the data etc. in which confidentiality
is claimed is different from data of any other entity engaged in such business
and what is secret about the same and what steps besides the clause aforesaid
in the letters of appointment of defendants no.1 to 8 have been taken by the
plaintiff to maintain secrecy / confidentiality thereof. The plaint in this
regard is vague and cannot be put to trial. The whole purpose of pleadings in
a civil suit is to let the opponent know the case to be met and which
crystallizes ultimately in issues on which the parties go to trial. If such
rules of pleadings are not to be adhered to, it will result in a fishing and
roving enquiry and enable a party to the suit to secure a victory by springing
a surprise during the course of trial. Similarly, an injunction qua
confidentiality as sought, even if granted would be vague and unenforceable as
aforesaid. This Court cannot pass such unenforceable order, the meaning
whereof is not clear. It cannot be known, neither to the Court nor to the
defendant as to what the defendant is injuncted from doing.
40\. Specific mention in the plaint as aforesaid is only qua the list /
compilation of customers with details of contact person / numbers. Copyright
was also claimed in the same list and which has not been found. What troubled
me was that the law having not protected such a list as a copyright, what
could be right in law of the plaintiff to enforce confidentiality thereof. I
then came across the article titled "The 'Other IP Right': Is It Time to
Codify the Indian Law on Protection of Confidential Information" authored
CS(COMM) No.735/2016 Page 23 of 32 by Mr. Prashant Reddy T, Assistant
Professor, NALSAR, Hyderabad published in Journal of National Law University,
Delhi 5(1) 1-21, analysing the law with respect to confidential information
and authoring (i) Article 39 of the Trade Related Aspects of Intellectual
Property Rights (TRIPS) Agreement signed by India imposed an obligation on
contracting states to provide means to protect secret information that has
commercial value from disclosure without the consent of the persons who have
maintained the secrecy of such information; (ii) however India did not enact
any new laws on the issue of trade secret protection meaning that Indian
government considered its existing laws sufficient to comply with the
requirements of Article 39; (iii) confidential information under English law
is protected under both common law and equity with remedies of injunction and
damages; (iv) however English law does not equate information to property
unlike some other jurisdictions, such as the United States where trade secrets
are treated as property; (v) India's approach to confidential information has
been the same as that of English Courts; (vi) Indian Courts, even in the
absence of a contract have protected information received under a duty of
confidence; reference is made to John Richard Brady Vs. Chemical Process
Equipments Pvt. Ltd. AIR 1987 Del. 372; and, (vii) English Courts have implied
a duty of fidelity into the arrangement between an employer and employee.
41\. On facts as pleaded in plaint it appeared that there can be no
confidentiality about such a list. Just like customers/clients of an Advocate
practicing in the field of acquisition of land and determination of
compensation therefor can comprise only of those whose land has been acquired
and whose particulars are contained in the acquisition notification and/or
award pronounced by the Land Acquisition Collector, similarly the CS(COMM)
No.735/2016 Page 24 of 32 list of customers/clients of the plaintiff, carrying
on business in the field of logistic and freight forwarding, can only comprise
of businesses/industry requiring carriage of goods and material and none else.
Names and contact addresses of such businesses are easily available in public
domain. Any competitor of the plaintiff worth its salt would also know of such
businesses/industry and be free to market his services to them, even if
presently employing the service of the plaintiff. I am thus unable to fathom
the confidentiality therein and during the hearing also repeatedly enquired
about the same and also enquired about the particulars of other
works/databases and in which also copyright and confidentiality was claimed.
No answer was forthcoming. Every customer list cannot qualify as confidential
information or a trade secret unless the confidentiality around such a list is
of economic value/business value/commercial value. A thought also crossed my
mind, whether not any employee of the plaintiff, dealing with the
customers/clients of the plaintiff on behalf of the plaintiff, would have
knowledge of the said customers/clients and their contact address even in the
absence of a list and how could such an employee, when joining the employment
of a competitor, be prevented from marketing the services of the competitor to
the employees/clients at the address on which he was earlier servicing them
under employment of the former employer and whether not it would amount to
restraint of trade.
42\. In fact today, trade/business directories are available of each
trade/business and wherefrom names and addresses of all in a particular
trade/business/industry can be known.
CS(COMM) No.735/2016 Page 25 of 32
43\. In Star India Pvt. Ltd. Vs. Laxmiraj Seetharam Nayak 2003 SCC OnLine Bom
27 it was held that everyone in any employment for some period would know
certain facts and would get to know some information without any special
effort; all such persons cannot be said to know trade secrets or confidential
information and that every opinion or general knowledge of facts cannot be
labelled as trade secrets or confidential information. It was yet further held
that if such items are called as trade secrets, or secret, would lose its
meaning and significance. It was held that the basic nature of the business
dealings of the plaintiff in that case with its advertisers would be openly
known and cannot be called a trade secret or a confidential information; the
rates of the advertisements are within the public domain and every businessman
generally knows the rates of his rivals; the concerned people know the rates
of the advertisements; unless they are told the rates and other conditions of
the advertisements, no business transaction can be done; such matters are not
even open secrets. Similarly it was held that fixation of rates etc. depends
on a number of factors including the popularity, in that case of T.V. serial
and the time-slots of the display of such T.V. serials and mere use of the
words 'strategies', 'policy decisions' or 'crucial policies' repeatedly in all
the items does not acquire the position or character of secrecy. It was held
that there was nothing on record from which it could be inferred that the
defendant had come to know any trade secrets or confidential information
concerning the plaintiff company and its business especially when the trade
secrets and the confidential information were not even spelled out.
44\. This Court also, in Ambiance India (Private) Ltd. Vs. Naveen Jain 2005
SCC OnLine Del 367 held that written day to day affairs of CS(COMM)
No.735/2016 Page 26 of 32 employment which are in the knowledge of many and
are commonly known to others cannot be called trade secrets. It was further
held that trade secret can be a formulae, technical know-how or a peculiar
mode or method of business adopted by an employer which is unknown to others.
It was yet further held that in a business house, the employees discharging
their duties come across so many matters but all these matters are not trade
secrets or confidential matters or formulae, the divulgence of which may be
injurious to the employer and if an employee on account of employment has
learnt some business acumen or ways of dealing with the customers or clients,
the same do not constitute trade secret or confidential information,
divulgence or use of which should be prohibited.
45\. This Court again in American Express Bank Ltd. Vs. Priya Puri 2006 SCC
OnLine Del 638 held that the plaintiff in that case, in the garb of
confidentiality, was trying to contend that that once the customer of the
plaintiff, always a customer of the plaintiff. It was further held that the
plaintiff, a bank in that case, could not restrain its competitor banks from
dealing with the customers of the plaintiff bank on the ground that the
plaintiff bank maintained written record of its customers and their financial
portfolios which had been acquired by the competitor bank and so the
competitor bank should be restrained even to contact those customers. It was
reasoned, that if the competitor bank without acquiring any information as to
with whom a particular person or company is banking, can approach him and
canvass about themselves, even after acquiring information that a particular
person of company is banking with a bank is still entitled to approach him and
canvass about themselves and it is for the customers to CS(COMM) No.735/2016
Page 27 of 32 decide with which bank to bank. It was further held that
creating a database of the clients/customers and then claiming confidentiality
about it, will not permit creation of a monopoly about such customers. It was
yet further reasoned that without impleading the customers in the suit, the
competitor could not be restrained from dealing with the customers. It was
thus held that details of customers are not trade secrets or property. The
argument, on the basis of copyright therein, was also negatived.
46\. The High Court of Bombay again in Bombay Dyeing and Manufacturing Co.
Ltd. Vs. Mehar Karan Singh 2010 SCC OnLine Bom 1243, relying on the judgments
of the United States of America, Court of Appeals, Tenth Circuit in Rivendell
Forest Products Ltd. Vs. Georgia Pacific Corporation and Timothy L. Cornwell
31 USPQ 2d1472 and Kodekay Electronics Inc. Vs. Mechanex Corp. 486 F. 2d 449
(10th Cir. 1973) and held that something which is known outside the business
or to those inside the business i.e. the employees and for guarding which no
steps have been taken and for developing which no effort or money has been
extended, cannot be a trade secret. Accordingly, it was held that information
relating to 'strategic business plans', 'product mix', 'square footage of
construction', 'capital expenditure' or 'revenue budgets' could not be claimed
to be of any confidential nature which no other competitor would know. Relying
on Star India Private Limited supra it was held that a salesman leaving a
company and heart surgeon leaving a hospital cannot be prevented from
negotiating with the customers or performing a surgery on the premise that
they acquired the skill by experience and those skills can be carried with the
employee. It was yet further held that though the CS(COMM) No.735/2016 Page 28
of 32 defendant in that case, on amassing information and knowledge with
regard to the plaintiff's plan of operation, could not be injuncted from
disclosing those plans to the competitor if he carried them in his head and
the competitor in the market, could not be taken to be driven by the
defendant's disclosure alone.
47\. This Court, even in Stellar Information Technology Private Ltd. Vs.
Rakesh Kumar (2016) 234 DLT 114 held that the names of the customers seeking
data recovery services of the plaintiff in that case were well known and in
public domain and the defendants could not be restrained from approaching the
customers only on the allegation that the defendants are aware of the names of
the plaintiff's customers. It was reasoned that the plaintiff, in the name of
confidentiality, was seeking a restraint on trade. FAO(OS) (Com.) No.104/2016
preferred thereagainst was dismissed on 11th November, 2016.
48\. The plaintiff, on a reading of the plaint, is thus found to have not made
out a case for permanent injunction restraining the defendants from divulging
any trade secrets, research process, financial, administrative and / or
organizational matters or any transactions or affairs of the plaintiff to
anyone else and / or for recovery of damages therefor for the reason of the
plaintiff having not pleaded that the defendants were privy to any such trade
secrets or other such matters.
49\. That brings me to the last limb of the claim of the plaintiff for
permanent injunction and / or for damages i.e. for breach of clause claimed in
the Employment Contract whereunder the defendants no.1 to 8 had agreed not to
compete with the plaintiff for a period of one year after CS(COMM) No.735/2016
Page 29 of 32 leaving the employment of the plaintiff either by carrying on
the same business themselves or by joining employment of any competitor of the
plaintiff.
50\. It is the case of the defendants that the said contract, even if any, is
void under Section 27 of the Contract Act.
51\. Section 27 of the Contract Act is as under:
> "27. Agreement in restraint of trade, void. - Every agreement by which any
> one is restrained from exercising a lawful profession, trade or business of
> any kind, is to that extent void.
> Exception 1. - Saving of agreement not to carry on business of which
> goodwill is sold. - One who sells the goodwill of a business may agree with
> the buyer to refrain from carrying on a similar business, within specified
> local limits, so long as the buyer, or any person deriving title to the
> goodwill from him, carries on a like business therein, provided that such
> limits appear to the Court reasonable, regard being had to the nature of the
> business."
52\. The interpretation of Section 27 of the Contract Act is not res integra.
53\. A two Judge Bench of the Supreme Court, as far back as in Niranjan
Shankar Golikari Vs. Century Spinning & Manufacturing Co. Ltd. AIR 1967 SC
1098 was concerned with a suit for injunction to restrain the employee, who
had agreed to serve the employer for a fixed period, from during the said
period, even after ceasing to be the employee of the plaintiff, joining
employment of a competitor of the plaintiff. It was unanimously held that
considerations against restrictive covenants are different in cases where the
restriction is to apply during the period after the CS(COMM) No.735/2016 Page
30 of 32 termination of the contract, than those in cases where it is to
operate during the period of contract of employment. In the facts of that
case, it was found that the employee was privy to the special process invented
/ adopted by the plaintiff and of which the employee was trained and had
acquired knowledge. The employee who had left employment prior to the
contracted period was thus restrained from joining employment of a competitor
for the remaining period for which he had contracted with the plaintiff in
that case.
54\. A three Judge Bench of the Supreme Court in Superintendence Company of
India (P) Ltd. Vs. Krishan Murgai 1981 2 SCC 246 was concerned with a claim
for injunction post cessation of employment. It was held by two of the Judges
on an interpretation of the restrictive clause in the Employment Contract,
that the same was to apply only when the employee on his / her volition left
the employment and not when the employer terminated the employment. The third
Hon'ble Judge held that even if the restrictive covenant was to include
cessation of employment at the volition of the employee, there could be no
post-employment restriction under Section 27 of the Act.
55\. A subsequent two Judge Bench of the Supreme Court in Percept D'Mark
(India) (P) Ltd. Vs. Zaheer Khan (2006) 4 SCC 227 refused enforcement of a
post-employment restriction on the ground of same being barred by Section 27
of the Act.
56\. Applying the aforesaid law to the facts of the present case, it is found
that as per the plaintiff also, there was no fixed term for which either of
the defendants no.1 to 8 had agreed to serve the plaintiff. The clause in the
Employment Contract claimed by the plaintiff also is to the effect that
CS(COMM) No.735/2016 Page 31 of 32 defendants no.1 to 8, for a period of one
year after ceasing to be the employee of the plaintiff, to not compete with
the plaintiff. Such a clause in the Employment Contract, as per the judgments
aforesaid of the Supreme Court, is void under Section 27 of the Contract Act.
Once the clause is void, there can be no injunction or damages in lieu of
injunction on the basis thereof.
57\. The permanent injunction and in the alternative damages claimed on the
premise of non-compete clause thus discloses no cause of action and is not
required to be put to trial.
58\. The plaint thus, as per the averments made in the plaint, does not
disclose the plaintiff to be entitled to the reliefs of injunction or damages
and is thus liable to be rejected and is rejected and the suit is dismissed.
Decree sheet be drawn.
However, no costs.
RAJIV SAHAI ENDLAW, J.
SEPTEMBER 17, 2018 'gsr/pp'..
CS(COMM) No.735/2016 Page 32 of 32
that as per the plaintiff also, there was no fixed term for which either of
the defendants no.1 to 8 had agreed to serve the plaintiff. The clause in the
Employment Contract claimed by the plaintiff also is to the effect that
CS(COMM) No.735/2016 Page 31 of 32 defendants no.1 to 8, for a period of one
year after ceasing to be the employee of the plaintiff, to not compete with
the plaintiff. Such a clause in the Employment Contract, as per the judgments
aforesaid of the Supreme Court, is void under Section 27 of the Contract Act.
Once the clause is void, there can be no injunction or damages in lieu of
injunction on the basis thereof.
57\. The permanent injunction and in the alternative damages claimed on the
premise of non-compete clause thus discloses no cause of action and is not
required to be put to trial.
58\. The plaint thus, as per the averments made in the plaint, does not
disclose the plaintiff to be entitled to the reliefs of injunction or damages
and is thus liable to be rejected and is rejected and the suit is dismissed.
Decree sheet be drawn.
                               Kumar Deepak, Advs. for D-12.
    CORAM:
    HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE RAJIV SAHAI ENDLAW
    1.
The plaintiff instituted this suit against as many as twelve defendants,
pleading i) that the plaintiff is engaged in the field of logistics and
freight forwarding services; ii) that the plaintiff has developed and evolved
very distinctive, detailed and comprehensive data, information and databases
pertaining to running of its business; iii) that this includes all the
confidential data, customer database, accounts information, airway drawings,
airway bills templates, plans, reports, taxes and other financial information;
iv) that the aforesaid confidential data and information CS(COMM) No.735/2016
Page 1 of 32 constitute the trade secrets of the plaintiff and are in the
digital format and are stored on computers, computer systems, computer
networks, computer resources and communication devices of the plaintiff; v)
that the said information, data and other related material are original
artistic and literary works of the plaintiff within the meaning of Section
2(c) and (o) of the Copyright Act, 1957; vi) that the plaintiff is the first
owner of the copyright in the said information, data and other related
materials; vii) that for the purpose of conducting its day-to-day business and
that as per the plaintiff also, there was no fixed term for which either of
the defendants no.1 to 8 had agreed to serve the plaintiff. The clause in the
Employment Contract claimed by the plaintiff also is to the effect that
CS(COMM) No.735/2016 Page 31 of 32 defendants no.1 to 8, for a period of one
year after ceasing to be the employee of the plaintiff, to not compete with
the plaintiff. Such a clause in the Employment Contract, as per the judgments
aforesaid of the Supreme Court, is void under Section 27 of the Contract Act.
Once the clause is void, there can be no injunction or damages in lieu of
injunction on the basis thereof.
57\. The permanent injunction and in the alternative damages claimed on the
premise of non-compete clause thus discloses no cause of action and is not
required to be put to trial.
58\. The plaint thus, as per the averments made in the plaint, does not
disclose the plaintiff to be entitled to the reliefs of injunction or damages
and is thus liable to be rejected and is rejected and the suit is dismissed.
Decree sheet be drawn.
                               Kumar Deepak, Advs. for D-12.
    CORAM:
    HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE RAJIV SAHAI ENDLAW
    1.
The plaintiff instituted this suit against as many as twelve defendants,
pleading i) that the plaintiff is engaged in the field of logistics and
freight forwarding services; ii) that the plaintiff has developed and evolved
very distinctive, detailed and comprehensive data, information and databases
pertaining to running of its business; iii) that this includes all the
confidential data, customer database, accounts information, airway drawings,
airway bills templates, plans, reports, taxes and other financial information;
iv) that the aforesaid confidential data and information CS(COMM) No.735/2016
Page 1 of 32 constitute the trade secrets of the plaintiff and are in the
digital format and are stored on computers, computer systems, computer
networks, computer resources and communication devices of the plaintiff; v)
that the said information, data and other related material are original
artistic and literary works of the plaintiff within the meaning of Section
2(c) and (o) of the Copyright Act, 1957; vi) that the plaintiff is the first
owner of the copyright in the said information, data and other related
materials; vii) that for the purpose of conducting its day-to-day business and
that as per the plaintiff also, there was no fixed term for which either of
the defendants no.1 to 8 had agreed to serve the plaintiff. The clause in the
Employment Contract claimed by the plaintiff also is to the effect that
CS(COMM) No.735/2016 Page 31 of 32 defendants no.1 to 8, for a period of one
year after ceasing to be the employee of the plaintiff, to not compete with
the plaintiff. Such a clause in the Employment Contract, as per the judgments
aforesaid of the Supreme Court, is void under Section 27 of the Contract Act.
Once the clause is void, there can be no injunction or damages in lieu of
injunction on the basis thereof.
57\. The permanent injunction and in the alternative damages claimed on the
premise of non-compete clause thus discloses no cause of action and is not
required to be put to trial.
58\. The plaint thus, as per the averments made in the plaint, does not
disclose the plaintiff to be entitled to the reliefs of injunction or damages
and is thus liable to be rejected and is rejected and the suit is dismissed.
Decree sheet be drawn.
                               Kumar Deepak, Advs. for D-12.
    CORAM:
    HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE RAJIV SAHAI ENDLAW
    1.
The plaintiff instituted this suit against as many as twelve defendants,
pleading i) that the plaintiff is engaged in the field of logistics and
freight forwarding services; ii) that the plaintiff has developed and evolved
very distinctive, detailed and comprehensive data, information and databases
pertaining to running of its business; iii) that this includes all the
confidential data, customer database, accounts information, airway drawings,
airway bills templates, plans, reports, taxes and other financial information;
iv) that the aforesaid confidential data and information CS(COMM) No.735/2016
Page 1 of 32 constitute the trade secrets of the plaintiff and are in the
digital format and are stored on computers, computer systems, computer
networks, computer resources and communication devices of the plaintiff; v)
that the said information, data and other related material are original
artistic and literary works of the plaintiff within the meaning of Section
2(c) and (o) of the Copyright Act, 1957; vi) that the plaintiff is the first
owner of the copyright in the said information, data and other related
materials; vii) that for the purpose of conducting its day-to-day business and
that as per the plaintiff also, there was no fixed term for which either of
the defendants no.1 to 8 had agreed to serve the plaintiff. The clause in the
Employment Contract claimed by the plaintiff also is to the effect that
CS(COMM) No.735/2016 Page 31 of 32 defendants no.1 to 8, for a period of one
year after ceasing to be the employee of the plaintiff, to not compete with
the plaintiff. Such a clause in the Employment Contract, as per the judgments
aforesaid of the Supreme Court, is void under Section 27 of the Contract Act.
Once the clause is void, there can be no injunction or damages in lieu of
injunction on the basis thereof.
57\. The permanent injunction and in the alternative damages claimed on the
premise of non-compete clause thus discloses no cause of action and is not
required to be put to trial.
58\. The plaint thus, as per the averments made in the plaint, does not
disclose the plaintiff to be entitled to the reliefs of injunction or damages
and is thus liable to be rejected and is rejected and the suit is dismissed.
Decree sheet be drawn.
                               Kumar Deepak, Advs. for D-12.
    CORAM:
    HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE RAJIV SAHAI ENDLAW
    1.
The plaintiff instituted this suit against as many as twelve defendants,
pleading i) that the plaintiff is engaged in the field of logistics and
freight forwarding services; ii) that the plaintiff has developed and evolved
very distinctive, detailed and comprehensive data, information and databases
pertaining to running of its business; iii) that this includes all the
confidential data, customer database, accounts information, airway drawings,
airway bills templates, plans, reports, taxes and other financial information;
iv) that the aforesaid confidential data and information CS(COMM) No.735/2016
Page 1 of 32 constitute the trade secrets of the plaintiff and are in the
digital format and are stored on computers, computer systems, computer
networks, computer resources and communication devices of the plaintiff; v)
that the said information, data and other related material are original
artistic and literary works of the plaintiff within the meaning of Section
2(c) and (o) of the Copyright Act, 1957; vi) that the plaintiff is the first
owner of the copyright in the said information, data and other related
materials; vii) that for the purpose of conducting its day-to-day business and
activities, the plaintiff engages the services of various employees; viii)
that owing to the sensitive nature of the information to which the said
employees would become privy, the plaintiff has got very stringent legal
documentation which it gets signed from all its employees at the time of
joining the employment; ix) that the defendant no.1 was employed as Customer
Service Executive, the defendant no.2 as Deputy Manager (Commercial), the
defendant no.3 as Assistant Manager (Pricing), the defendant no.4 as Customer
Service Executive, the defendant no.5 as Sales Executive, the defendant no.6
as Business Development Manager, the defendant no.7 as Assistant Manager
(Pricing) and defendant no.8 as Accounts Executive (Overseas) with the
plaintiff; x) that the Appointment Letters of the defendants contain inter
that as per the plaintiff also, there was no fixed term for which either of
the defendants no.1 to 8 had agreed to serve the plaintiff. The clause in the
Employment Contract claimed by the plaintiff also is to the effect that
CS(COMM) No.735/2016 Page 31 of 32 defendants no.1 to 8, for a period of one
year after ceasing to be the employee of the plaintiff, to not compete with
the plaintiff. Such a clause in the Employment Contract, as per the judgments
aforesaid of the Supreme Court, is void under Section 27 of the Contract Act.
Once the clause is void, there can be no injunction or damages in lieu of
injunction on the basis thereof.
57\. The permanent injunction and in the alternative damages claimed on the
premise of non-compete clause thus discloses no cause of action and is not
required to be put to trial.
58\. The plaint thus, as per the averments made in the plaint, does not
disclose the plaintiff to be entitled to the reliefs of injunction or damages
and is thus liable to be rejected and is rejected and the suit is dismissed.
Decree sheet be drawn.
                               Kumar Deepak, Advs. for D-12.
    CORAM:
    HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE RAJIV SAHAI ENDLAW
    1.
The plaintiff instituted this suit against as many as twelve defendants,
pleading i) that the plaintiff is engaged in the field of logistics and
freight forwarding services; ii) that the plaintiff has developed and evolved
very distinctive, detailed and comprehensive data, information and databases
pertaining to running of its business; iii) that this includes all the
confidential data, customer database, accounts information, airway drawings,
airway bills templates, plans, reports, taxes and other financial information;
iv) that the aforesaid confidential data and information CS(COMM) No.735/2016
Page 1 of 32 constitute the trade secrets of the plaintiff and are in the
digital format and are stored on computers, computer systems, computer
networks, computer resources and communication devices of the plaintiff; v)
that the said information, data and other related material are original
artistic and literary works of the plaintiff within the meaning of Section
2(c) and (o) of the Copyright Act, 1957; vi) that the plaintiff is the first
owner of the copyright in the said information, data and other related
materials; vii) that for the purpose of conducting its day-to-day business and
activities, the plaintiff engages the services of various employees; viii)
that owing to the sensitive nature of the information to which the said
employees would become privy, the plaintiff has got very stringent legal
documentation which it gets signed from all its employees at the time of
joining the employment; ix) that the defendant no.1 was employed as Customer
Service Executive, the defendant no.2 as Deputy Manager (Commercial), the
defendant no.3 as Assistant Manager (Pricing), the defendant no.4 as Customer
Service Executive, the defendant no.5 as Sales Executive, the defendant no.6
as Business Development Manager, the defendant no.7 as Assistant Manager
(Pricing) and defendant no.8 as Accounts Executive (Overseas) with the
plaintiff; x) that the Appointment Letters of the defendants contain inter
that as per the plaintiff also, there was no fixed term for which either of
the defendants no.1 to 8 had agreed to serve the plaintiff. The clause in the
Employment Contract claimed by the plaintiff also is to the effect that
CS(COMM) No.735/2016 Page 31 of 32 defendants no.1 to 8, for a period of one
year after ceasing to be the employee of the plaintiff, to not compete with
the plaintiff. Such a clause in the Employment Contract, as per the judgments
aforesaid of the Supreme Court, is void under Section 27 of the Contract Act.
Once the clause is void, there can be no injunction or damages in lieu of
injunction on the basis thereof.
57\. The permanent injunction and in the alternative damages claimed on the
premise of non-compete clause thus discloses no cause of action and is not
required to be put to trial.
58\. The plaint thus, as per the averments made in the plaint, does not
disclose the plaintiff to be entitled to the reliefs of injunction or damages
and is thus liable to be rejected and is rejected and the suit is dismissed.
Decree sheet be drawn.
