Central Government Act
the Customs Act, 1962
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962 THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
1. Short title, extent and commencement.—
(1) This Act may be called the Customs Act, 1962.
(2) It extends to the whole of India.
2 Definitions. —In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,—
1 [(1) “adjudicating authority” means any authority competent to pass any
order or decision under this Act, but does not include the Board, 2
[Commissioner (Appeals)] or Appellate Tribunal;
(1A) “aircraft” has the same meaning in the Aircraft Act, 1934 (22 of 1934);
(1B) “Appellate Tribunal” means the Customs, Excise and 3 [Service Tax]
Appellate Tribunal constituted under section 129;]
(2) “assessment” includes provisional assessment, reassessment and any order
of assessment in which the duty assessed is nil;
(3) “baggage” includes unaccompanied baggage but does not include motor
vehicles;
(4) “bill of entry” means a bill of entry referred to in section 46;
(5) “bill of export” means a bill of export referred to in section 50;
(6) “Board” means the 4 [Central Board of Excise and Customs constituted under
Collector of Customs” (w.e.f. 26-5-1995).
405\. Subs. by Act 27 of 1999, sec. 100, for “Assistant Commissioner of
Customs” (w.e.f. 11-5-1999). Earlier the words “Assistant Commissioner of
Customs” were substituted by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 50, for the words “Assistant
Collector of Customs” (w.e.f. 26-5-1995).
406\. Ins. by Act 12 of 1990, sec. 62 (w.e.f. 31-5-1990).
407\. Subs. by Act 2 of 2006, sec. 33 (w.e.f. 13-7-2006).
408\. Subs. by Act 22 of 2007, sec. 113, for clause (a) (w.e.f. 10-10-2007).
Earlier clause (a) was substituted by Act 27 of 1988, sec. 3 (w.e.f.
16-8-1988). Clause (a), before substitution by Act 22 of 2007, stood as under:
409\. Clause (c) omitted by Act 26 of 1988, sec. 80 (w.e.f. 13-5-1988).
410\. Added by Act 36 of 1973, sec. 12 (w.e.f. 1-9-1973).
411\. Ins. by Act 23 of 2004, sec. 73 (w.e.f. 10-9-2004).
412\. Subs. by Act 27 of 1999, sec. 115, for “bill of transshipment” (w.e.f.
11-5-1999).
413\. Ins. by Act 33 of 2009, sec. 91 (w.e.f. 19-8-2009).
(6) “Board” means the 4 [Central Board of Excise and Customs constituted under
the Central Boards of Revenue Act, 1963 (54 of 1963)];
(7) “coastal goods” means goods, other than imported goods, transported in a
vessel from one port in India to another;
5 [(7A) “Commissioner (Appeals)” means a person appointed to be a Commissioner
of Customs (Appeals) under sub-section (1) of section 4;]
6 [(8) “Commissioner of Customs”, except for the purposes of Chapter XV,
includes an Additional Commissioner of Customs;]
(9) “conveyance” includes a vessel, an aircraft and a vehicle;
(10) “customs airport” means any airport appointed under clause (a) of section
7 to be a customs airport;
(11) “customs area” means the area of a customs station and includes any area
in which imported goods or export goods are ordinarily kept before clearance
by Customs Authorities;
(12) “customs port” means any port appointed under clause (a) of section 7 to
be a customs port 7 [and includes a place appointed under clause (aa) of that
section to be an inland container depot];
(13) “customs station” means any customs port, customs airport or land customs
station;
(14) “dutiable goods” means any goods which are chargeable to duty and on
which duty has not been paid;
(15) “duty” means a duty of customs leviable under this Act;
(16) “entry”, in relation to goods means an entry made in a bill of entry,
shipping bill or bill of export and includes in the case of goods imported or
to be exported by post, the entry referred to in section 82 or the entry made
under the regulations made under section 84;
(17) “examination”, in relation to any goods, includes measurement and
weighment thereof;
(18) “export”, with its grammatical variations and cognate expressions, means
taking out of India to a place outside India;
(19) “export goods” means any goods which are to be taken out of India to a
place outside India;
(20) “exporter”, in relation to any goods at any time between their entry for
export and the time when they are exported, includes any owner or any person
holding himself out to be the exporter;
(21) “foreign-going vessel or aircraft” means any vessel or aircraft for the
time being engaged in the carriage of goods or passengers between any port or
airport in India and any port or airport outside India, whether touching any
intermediate port or airport in India or not, and includes—
(i) any naval vessel of a foreign Government taking part in any naval
exercises;
(ii) any vessel engaged in fishing or any other operations outside the
territorial waters of India;
(iii) any vessel or aircraft proceeding to a place outside India for any
purpose whatsoever;
8 [(21A) “Fund” means the Consumer Welfare Fund established under section 12C
of the Central Excises and Salt Act, 1944 (1 of 1944)*;]
(22) “goods” includes—
(a) vessels, aircrafts and vehicles;
(b) stores;
(c) baggage;
(d) currency and negotiable instruments; and
(e) any other kind of movable property;
(23) “import”, with its grammatical variations and cognate expressions, means
bringing into India from a place outside India;
(24) “import manifest” or “import report” means the manifest or report
required to be delivered under section 30;
(25) “imported goods” means any goods brought into India from a place outside
India but does not include goods which have been cleared for home consumption;
(26) “importer”, in relation to any goods at any time between their
importation and the time when they are cleared for home consumption, includes
any owner or any person holding himself out to be the importer;
(27) “India” includes the territorial waters of India;
(28) “Indian Customs Water” means the 9 [waters extending into the sea upto
the limit of contiguous zone of India under section 5 of the Territorial
Waters Continental Shelf, Exclusive Economic Zone and other Maritime Zones
Act, 1976, (80 of 1976)] and includes any bay, gulf, harbour, creek or tidal
river;
(29) “land customs station” means any place appointed under clause (b) of
section 7 to be a land customs station;
(30) “market price”, in relation to any goods, means the wholesale price of
the goods in the ordinary course of trade in India;
10 [(30A) "National Tax Tribunal" means the National Tax Tribunal established
under section 3 of the National Tax Tribunal Act, 2005 (49 of 2005);]
(31) “person-in-charge” means,—
(a) in relation to a vessel, the master of the vessel;
(b) in relation to an aircraft, the commander or pilot-in-charge of the
aircraft;
(c) in relation to a railway train, the conductor, guard or other person
having the chief direction of the train;
(d) in relation to any other conveyance, the driver or other person-in-charge
of the conveyance;
(32) “prescribed” means prescribed by regulations made under this Act;
(33) “prohibited goods” means any goods the import or export of which is
subject to any prohibition under this Act or any other law for the time being
in force but does not include any such goods in respect of which the
conditions subject to which the goods are permitted to be imported or
exported, have been complied with;
(34) “proper officer”, in relation to any functions to be performed under this
Act, means the officer of customs who is assigned those functions by the Board
or the 11 [Commissioner of Customs];
(35) “regulations” means the regulations made by the Board under any provision
of this Act;
(36) “rules” means the rules made by the Central Government under any
provision of this Act;
(37) “shipping bill” means a shipping bill referred to in section 50;
(38) “stores” means goods for use in a vessel or aircraft and includes fuel
and spare parts and other articles of equipment, whether or not for immediate
fitting;
(39) “smuggling”, in relation to any goods, means any act or omission which
will render such goods liable to confiscation under section 111 or section
113;
(40) “tariff value”, in relation to any goods, means the tariff value fixed in
respect thereof under sub-section (2) of section 14;
(41) “value”, in relation to any goods, means the value thereof determined in
accordance with the provisions of 12 [sub-section (1) or sub-section (2) of
section 14];
(42) “vehicle” means conveyance of any kind used on land and includes a
railway vehicle;
(43) “warehouse” means a public warehouse appointed under section 57 or a
private warehouse licensed under section 58;
(44) “warehoused goods” means goods deposited in a warehouse;
(45) “warehousing station” means a place declared as a warehousing station
under section 9.
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
1[3. Classes of officers of customs.—There shall be the following classes of
officers of customs, namely:—
(a) Chief Commissioner of Customs;
(b) Commissioners of Customs;
(c) Commissioners of Customs (Appeals); 2[(cc) Joint Commissioner of Customs;]
(d) Deputy Commissioners of Customs;
(e) Assistant Commissioners of Customs; and
(f) such other class of officers of customs as may be appointed for the
purposes of this Act.]
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
1[4. Appointment of officers of customs.—
(1) The 2[Board] may appoint such persons as it thinks fit to be officers of
customs.
(2) Without prejudice to the provisions of sub-section (1), 3[Board may
authorise a Chief Commissioner of Customs or] a 4[Joint or Assistant or Deputy
Commissioner of Customs] to appoint officers of customs below the rank of
Assistant Commissioner of Customs.]
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
5. Powers of officers of customs.—
(1) Subject to such conditions and limitations as the Board may impose, an
officer of customs may exercise the powers and discharge the duties conferred
or imposed on him under this Act.
(2) An officer of customs may exercise the powers and discharge the duties
conferred or imposed under this Act on any other officer of customs who is
subordinate to him.
(3) Notwithstanding anything contained in this section, 1[a 2[Commissioner
(Appeals)]] shall not exercise the powers and discharge the duties conferred
or imposed on an officer of customs other than those specified in Chapter XV
and section 108.
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
6. Entrustment of functions of Board and customs officers on certain other officers.—The Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, entrust either conditionally or unconditionally to any officer of the Central or the State Gov­ernment or a local authority any functions of the Board or any officer of customs under this Act.
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
7. Appointment of customs ports, airports, etc.—1[
(1) ] The 2[Board] may, by notification in the Official Gazette, appoint—
(a) the ports and airports which alone shall be customs ports or customs
airports for the unloading of imported goods and the loading of export goods
or any class of such goods; 3[(aa) the places which alone shall be inland
container depots for the unloading of imported goods and the loading of export
goods or any class of such goods;]
(b) the places which alone shall be land customs stations for the clearance of
goods imported or to be exported by land or inland water or any class of such
goods;
(c) the routes by which alone goods or any class of goods specified in the
notification may pass by land or inland water into or out of India, or to or
from any land customs station from or to any land frontier;
(d) the ports which alone shall be coastal ports for the carrying on of trade
in coastal goods or any class of such goods with all or any specified ports in
India. 4[(2) every notification issued under this section and in force
immediately before the commencement of the Finance Act, 2003 shall, on such
commencement, be deemed to have been issued under the provisions of this
section as amended by section 105 of the Finance Act, 2003 and shall continue
to have the same force and effect after such commencement until it is amended,
rescinded or superseded under the provisions of this section.]
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
8. Power to approve landing places and specify limits of customs area.—The 1[Commissioner of Customs] may, —
(a) approve proper places in any customs port or customs airport or coastal
port for the unloading and loading of goods or for any class of goods;
(b) specify the limits of any customs area.
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
9. Power to declare places to be warehousing stations.—The Board may, by notification in the Official Gazette, declare places to be warehousing stations at which alone public warehouses may be appointed and private warehouses may be licensed.
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
10. Appointment of boarding stations.—The 1[Commissioner of Customs] may, by notification in the Official Gazette, appoint, in or near any customs port, a boarding station for the purpose of boarding of, or disembarkation from, vessels by officers of customs.
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
11. Power to prohibit importation or exportation of goods.—
(1) If the Central Government is satisfied that it is necessary so to do for
any of the purposes specified in sub-section (2), it may, by notification in
the Official Gazette, prohibit either absolutely or subject to such conditions
(to be fulfilled before or after clearance) as may be specified in the
notification, the import or export of goods of any specified description.
(2) The purposes referred to in sub-section (1) are the following:—
(a) the maintenance of the security of India;
(b) the maintenance of public order and standards of decency or morality;
(c) the prevention of smuggling;
(d) the prevention of shortage of goods of any description;
(e) the conservation of foreign exchange and the safeguarding or balance of
payments;
(f) the prevention of injury to the economy of the country by the uncontrolled
import or export of gold or silver;
(g) the prevention of surplus of any agricultural product or the product of
fisheries;
(h) the maintenance of standards for the classification, grading or marketing
of goods in international trade;
(i) the establishment of any industry;
(j) the prevention of serious injury to domestic production of goods of any
description;
(k) the protection of human, animal or plant life or health;
(l) the protection of national treasures of artistic, historic or
archaeological value;
(m) the conservation of exhaustible natural resources;
(n) the protection of patents, trade marks and copyrights;
(o) the prevention of deceptive practices;
(p) the carrying on of foreign trade in any goods by the State, or by a
Corporation owned or controlled by the State to the exclusion, complete or
partial, or citizens of India;
(q) the fulfilment of obligations under the Charter of the United Nations for
the maintenance of international peace and security;
(r) the implementation of any treaty, agreements or convention with any
country;
(s) the compliance of imported goods with any laws which are applicable to
similar goods produced or manufactured in India;
(t) the prevention of dissemination of documents containing any matter which
is likely to prejudicially affect friendly relations with any foreign State or
is derogatory to national prestige;
(u) the prevention of the contravention of any law for the time being in
force; and
(v) any other purpose conducive to the interests of the general public.
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
*11A. Definitions.—In this Chapter, unless the context otherwise requires,—
(a) “illegal import” means the import of any goods in contravention of the
provisions of this Act or any other law for the time being in force;
(b) “intimated place” means a place intimated under sub-section (1), sub-
section (2) or sub-section (3), as the case may be, of section 11C;
(c) “notified date”, in relation to goods of any description, means the date
on which the notification in relation to such goods is issued under section
11B;
(d) “notified goods” means goods specified in the notification issued under
section 11B.
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
*11B. Power of Central Government to notify goods.—If, having regard to the magnitude of the illegal import of goods of any class or description, the Central Government is satisfied that it is expedient in the public interest to take special measures for the purpose of checking the illegal import, circulation or disposal of such goods, or facilitating the detection of such goods, it may, by notification in the Official Gazette, specify goods of such class or description.
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
*11C. Persons possessing notified goods to intimate the place of storage, etc.—
(1) Every person who owns, possesses or controls, on the notified date, any
notified goods, shall, within seven days from that date, deliver to the proper
officer a statement (in such form, in such manner and containing such
particulars as may be specified by rules made in this behalf) in relation to
the notified goods owned, possessed or controlled by him and the place where
such goods are kept or stored.
(2) Every person who acquires, after the notified date, any notified goods,
shall, before making such acquisition, deliver to the proper officer an
intimation containing the particulars of the place where such goods are
proposed to be kept or stored after such acquisition and shall, immediately on
such acquisition, deliver to the proper officer a statement (in such form, in
such manner and containing such particulars as may be specified by rules made
in this behalf) in relation to the notified goods acquired by him: Provided
that a person who has delivered a statement, whether under sub-section (1) or
sub-section (2) in relation to any notified goods, owned, possessed,
controlled or acquired by him, shall not be required to deliver any further
statement in relation to any notified goods acquired by him, after the date of
delivery of the said statement, so long as the notified goods so acquired are
kept or stored at the intimated place.
(3) If any person intends to shift any notified goods to any place other than
the intimated place, he shall, before taking out such goods from the intimated
place, deliver to the proper officer an intimation containing the particulars
of the place to which such goods are proposed to be shifted.
(4) No person shall, after the expiry of seven days from the notified date,
keep or store any notified goods at any place other than the intimated place.
(5) Where any notified goods have been sold or transferred, such goods shall
not be taken from one place to another unless they are accompanied by the
voucher referred to in section 11F.
(6) No notified goods (other than those which have been sold or transferred)
shall be taken from one place to another unless they are accompanied by a
transport voucher (in such form and containing such particulars as may be
specified by rules made in this behalf) prepared by the persons owning,
possessing or controlling such goods.
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
*11D. Precautions to be taken by persons acquiring notified goods.—No person shall acquire (except by gift or succession, from any other individual in India), after the notified date, any notified goods—
(i) unless such goods are accompanied by,—
(a) the voucher referred to in section 11F or the memorandum referred to in
sub-section (2) of section 11G, as the case may be; or
(b) in the case of a person who has himself imported any goods, any evidence
showing clearance of such goods by the Customs Authorities; and
(ii) unless he has taken, before acquiring such goods from a person other than
a dealer having a fixed place of business, such reasonable steps as may be
specified by rules made in this behalf, to ensure that the goods so acquired
by him are not goods which have been illegally imported.
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
*11E. Persons possessing notified goods to maintain accounts.—
(1) Every person who, on or after the notified date, owns, possesses, controls
or acquires any notified goods shall maintain (in such form and in such manner
as may be specified by rules made in this behalf) a true and complete account
of such goods and shall, as often as he acquires or parts with any notified
goods, make an entry in the said account in relation to such acquisition or
parting with, and shall also state therein the particulars of the person from
whom such goods have been acquired or in whose favour such goods have been
parted with, as the case may be, and such account shall be kept, along with
the goods, at the place of storage of the notified goods to which such
accounts relate: Provided that it shall not be necessary to maintain separate
accounts in the form and manner specified by rules made in this behalf in the
case of a person who is already maintaining accounts which contain the
particulars specified by the said rules.
(2) Every person who owns, possesses or controls any notified goods and who
uses any such goods for the manufacture of any other goods, shall maintain (in
such form, in such manner and containing such particulars as may be specified
by rules made in this behalf) a true and complete account of the notified
goods so used by him and shall keep such account at the intimated place.
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
*11F. Sale, etc., of notified goods to be evidenced by vouchers.—On and from the notified date, no person shall sell or otherwise transfer any notified goods, unless every transaction in relation to the sale or transfer of such goods is evidenced by a voucher in such form and containing such particulars as may be specified by rules made in this behalf.
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
*11G. Sections 11C, 11E and 11F not to apply to goods in personal use.—
(1) Nothing in sections 11C, 11E and 11F shall apply to any notified goods
which are—
(a) in personal use of the person by whom they are owned, possessed or
controlled, or
(b) kept in the residential premises of a person for his personal use.
(2) If any person, who is in possession of any notified goods referred to in
sub-section (1), sells, or otherwise transfers for a valuable consideration,
any such goods, he shall issue to the purchaser or transferee, as the case may
be, a memorandum containing such particulars as may be specified by rules made
in this behalf and no such goods shall be taken from one place to another
unless they are accompanied by the said memorandum.]
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
*11H. Definitions.—In this Chapter, unless the context otherwise requires,—
(a) “illegal export” means the export of any goods in contravention of the
provisions of this Act or any other law for the time being in force;
(b) “intimated place” means a place intimated under sub-section (1), sub-
section (2) or sub-section (3), as the case may be, of section 11J;
(c) “specified area” include the Indian customs water, and such inland area,
not exceeding one hundred kilometres in width from any coast or other border
of India, as the Central Government may, having regard to the vulnerability of
that area to smuggling, by notification in the Official Gazette, specify in
this behalf: Provided that where a part of any village, town or city falls
within a specified area, the whole of such village, town or city shall,
notwithstanding that the whole of it is not within one hundred kilometres from
any coast or other border of India, be deemed to be included in such specified
area;
(d) “specified date” in relation to specified goods, means the date on which
any notification is issued under section 11-I in relation to those goods in
any specified area;
(e) “specified goods” means goods of any description specified in the
notification issued under section 11-I in relation to a specified area.
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
*11-I. Power of Central Government to specify goods.—If, having regard to the magnitude of the illegal export of goods of any class or description, the Central Government is satisfied that it is expedient in the public interest to take special measures for the purpose of checking the illegal export or facilitating the detection of goods which are likely to be illegally exported, it may, by notification in the Official Gazette, specify goods of such class or description.
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
*11J. Persons possessing specified goods to intimate the place of storage, etc.—
(1) Every person who owns, possesses or controls, on the specified date, any
specified goods, the market price of which exceeds fifteen thousand rupees
shall, within seven days from that date, deliver to the proper officer an
intimation containing the particulars of the place where such goods are kept
or stored within the specified area.
(2) Every person who acquires (within the specified area), after the specified
date, any specified goods,—
(i) the market price of which, or
(ii) the market price of which together with the market price of any specified
goods of the same class or description, if any, owned, possessed or controlled
by him on the date of such acquisition, exceeds fifteen thousand rupees,
shall, before making such acquisition, deliver to the proper officer an
intimation containing the particulars of the place where such goods are
proposed to be kept or stored after such acquisition: Provided that a person
who has delivered an intimation, whether under sub-section (1) or sub-section
(2), in relation to any specified goods, owned, possessed, controlled or
acquired by him, shall not be required to deliver any further intimation so
long as the specified goods are kept or stored at the intimated place.
(3) If any person intends to shift any specified goods to which sub-section
(1) or sub-section (2) applies, to any place other than the intimated place,
he shall, before taking out such goods from the intimated place, deliver to
the proper officer an intimation containing the particulars of the place to
which such goods are proposed to be shifted.
(4) No person shall, after the expiry of seven days from the specified date,
keep or store any specified goods to which sub-section (1) or sub-section (2)
applies, at any place other than the intimated place.
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
*11K. Transport of specified goods to be covered by vouchers.—
(1) No specified goods shall be transported from, into or within any specified
area or loaded on any animal or conveyance in such area, unless they are
accompanied by a transport voucher (in such form and containing such
particulars as may be specified by rules made in this behalf) prepared by the
person owning, possessing, controlling or selling such goods: Provided that no
transport voucher shall be necessary for the transport, within a village, town
or city, of any specified goods the market price of which, on the date of
transport, does not exceed one thousand rupees.
(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1), where the Central
Government, after considering the nature of any specified goods, the time,
mode, route and the market price of the goods intended to be transported, the
purpose of transportation and the vulnerability of the specified area with
regard to the illegal export of such goods, is satisfied that it is expedient
in the public interest so to do, it may,—
(i) by notification in the Official Gazette, specify goods of such class or
description and of a market price exceeding such sum as that Government may
notify; and different sums in relation to the specified goods of the same
class or description, or different classes or descriptions, may be notified
for the same specified area or for different specified areas, and
(ii) direct that no person shall transport any goods so specified unless the
transport voucher in relation to them has been countersigned by the proper
officer.
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
*11L. Persons possessing specified goods to maintain accounts.—
(1) Every person who, on or after the specified date, owns, possesses or
controls, within a specified area, any specified goods of a market price
exceeding fifteen thousand rupees, shall maintain (in such form and in such
manner as may be specified by rules made in this behalf) a true and complete
account of such goods and shall, as often as he acquires or parts with any
specified goods, make an entry in the said account in relation to such
acquisition or parting with, and shall also state therein the particulars of
the person from whom such goods have been acquired or in whose favour such
goods have been parted with, as the case may be, and such account shall be
kept, alongwith the goods, at the place of storage of the specified goods to
which such accounts relate: Provided that it shall not be necessary to
maintain separate accounts in the form and manner specified by rules made in
this behalf in the case of a person who is already maintaining accounts which
contain the particulars specified by the said rules.
(2) Every person who owns, possesses or controls any specified goods to which
the provisions of sub-section (1) apply, and who uses any such goods for the
manufacture of any other goods, shall maintain (in such form, in such manner
and containing such particulars as may be specified by rules made in this
behalf) a true and complete account of the specified goods so used by him and
shall keep such account at the intimated place.
(3) If at any time, on a verification made by a proper officer, it is found
that any specified goods owned, possessed or controlled by a person are lesser
in quantity than the stock of such goods as shown, at the time of such
verification, in the accounts referred to in sub-section (1), read with the
accounts referred to in sub-section (2), it shall be presumed, unless the
contrary is proved, that such goods, to the extent that they are lesser than
the stock shown in the said accounts, have been illegally exported and that
the person owning, possessing or controlling such goods has been concerned
with the illegal export thereof.
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
*11M. Steps to be taken by persons selling or transferring any specified goods.—Except where he receives payment by cheque drawn by the purchaser, every person who sells or otherwise transfers within any specified area, any specified goods, shall obtain, on his copy of the sale or transfer voucher, the signature and full postal address of the person to whom such sale or transfer is made and shall also take such other reasonable steps as may be specified by rules made in this behalf to satisfy himself as to the identity of the purchaser or the transferee, as the case may be, and if after an inquiry made by a proper officer, it is found that the purchaser or the transferee, as the case may be, is not either readily traceable or is a fictitious person, it shall be presumed, unless the contrary is proved, that such goods have been illegally exported and the person who had sold or otherwise transferred such goods had been concerned in such illegal export: Provided that nothing in this section shall apply to petty sales of any specified goods if the aggregate market price obtained by such petty sales, made in the course of a day, does not exceed two thousand and five hundred rupees. Explanation.—In this section “petty sale” means a sale at a price which does not exceed one thousand rupees.]
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
*11N. Power to exempt.—If the Central Government is satisfied that it is necessary in the public interest so to do, it may, by notification in the Official Gazette, exempt generally, either absolutely or subject to such conditions as may be specified in the notification, goods of any class or description from all or any of the provisions of Chapter IVA or Chapter IVB.]
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
12. Dutiable goods.—
(1) Except as otherwise provided in this Act, or any other law for the time
being in force, duties of customs shall be levied at such rates as may be
specified under 1[the Customs Tariff Act, 1975 (51 of 1975)], or any other law
for the time being in force, on goods imported into, or exported from, India.
2[(2) The provisions of sub-section (1) shall apply in respect of all goods
belonging to Government as they apply in respect of goods not belonging to
Government.]
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
13. Duty on pilferred goods.—If any imported goods are pilferred after the unloading thereof and before the proper officer has made an order for clearance for home consumption or deposit in a warehouse, the importer shall not be liable to pay the duty leviable on such goods except where such goods are restored to the importer after pilferage.
29 [ 14 Valuation of goods. —
(1) For the purposes of the Customs Tariff Act, 1975 (51 of 1975), or any
other law for the time being in force, the value of the imported goods and
export goods shall be the transaction value of such goods, that is to say, the
price actually paid or payable for the goods when sold for export to India for
delivery at the time and place of importation, or as the case may be, for
export from India for delivery at the time and place of exportation, where the
buyer and seller of the goods are not related and price is the sole
consideration for the sale subject to such other conditions as may be
specified in the rules made in this behalf: Provided that such transaction
value in the case of imported goods shall include, in addition to the price as
aforesaid, any amount paid or payable for costs and services, including
commissions and brokerage, engineering, design work, royalties and licence
fees, costs of transportation to the place of importation, insurance, loading,
unloading and handling charges to the extent and in the manner specified in
the rules made in this behalf: Provided further that the rules made in this
behalf may provide for,—
(i) the circumstances in which the buyer and the seller shall be deemed to be
related;
(ii) the manner of determination of value in respect of goods when there is no
sale, or the buyer and the seller are related, or price is not the sole
consideration for the sale or in any other case;
(iii) the manner of acceptance or rejection of value declared by the importer
or exporter, as the case may be, where the proper officer has reason to doubt
the truth or accuracy of such value, and determination of value for the
purposes of this section:
Provided also that such price shall be calculated with reference to the rate
of exchange as in force on the date on which a bill of entry is presented
under section 46, or a shipping bill of export, as the case may be, is
presented under section 50.
(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1), if the Board is
satisfied that it is necessary or expedient so to do, it may, by notification
in the Official Gazette, fix tariff values for any class of imported goods or
export goods, having regard to the trend of value of such or like goods, and
where any such tariff values are fixed, the duty shall be chargeable with
reference to such tariff value. Explanation. —For the purposes of this
section—
(a) “rate of exchange” means the rate of exchange—
(i) determined by the Board, or
(ii) ascertained in such manner as the Board may direct,
for the conversion of Indian currency into foreign currency or foreign
currency into Indian currency;
(b) “foreign currency” and “Indian currency” have the meanings respectively
assigned to them in clause (m) and clause (q) of section 2 of the Foreign
Exchange Management Act, 1999 (42 of 1999).]
‘ 14 Valuation of goods for purposes of assessment .—
(1) For the purposes of the Customs Tariff Act, 1975 (51 of 1975), or any
other law for the time being in force whereunder a duty of customs is
chargeable on any goods by reference to their value, the value of such goods
shall be deemed to be— the price at which such or like goods are ordinarily
sold, or offered for sale, for delivery at the time and place of importation
or exportation, as the case may be, in the course of international trade,
where—
(a) the seller and the buyer have no interest in the business of each other;
or
(b) one of them has no interest in the business of the other,
and the price is the sole consideration for the sale or offer for sale:
Provided that such price shall be calculated with reference to the rate of
exchange as in force on the date on which a bill of entry is presented under
section 46, or a shipping bill or bill of export, as the case may be, is
presented under section 50;
(1A) Subject to the provisions of sub-section (1), the price referred to in
that sub-section in respect of imported goods shall be determined in
accordance with the rules made in this behalf.
(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1) or sub-section (1A)
if the Board is satisfied that it is necessary or expedient so to do, it may,
by notification in the Official Gazette, fix tariff values for any class of
imported goods or export goods, having regard to the trend of value of such or
like goods, and where any such tariff values are fixed, the duty shall be
chargeable with reference to such tariff value.
(3) For the purposes of this section—
(a) “rate of exchange” means the rate of exchange—
(i) determined by the Board, or
(ii) ascertained in such manner as the Board may direct,
for the conversion of Indian currency into foreign currency or foreign
currency into Indian currency;
(b) “foreign currency” and “Indian currency” have the meanings respectively
assigned to them in clause (m) and clause (q) of section 2 of the Foreign
Exchange Management Act, 1999 (42 of 1999).'.
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
15. Date for determination of rate of duty and tariff valuation of imported goods.—
(1) 1[The rate of duty 2[***]] and tariff valuation, if any, applicable to any
imported goods, shall be the rate and valuation in force,—
(a) in the case of goods entered for home consumption under section 46, on the
date on which a bill of entry in respect of such goods is presented under that
section;
(b) in the case of goods cleared from a warehouse under section 68, on the
date on which 3[a bill of entry for home consumption in respect of such goods
is presented under that section];
(c) in the case of any other goods, on the date of payment of duty: 4[Provided
that if a bill of entry has been presented before the date of entry inwards of
the vessel or the arrival of the aircraft by which the goods are imported, the
bill of entry shall be deemed to have been presented on the date of such entry
inwards or the arrival, as the case may be.]
(2) The provisions of this section shall not apply to baggage and goods
imported by post. 5[***]
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
16. Date for determination of rate of duty and tariff valuation of export goods.—1[
(1) The rate of duty and tariff valuation, if any, applicable to any export
goods, shall be the rate and valuation in force,—
(a) in the case of goods entered for export under section 50, on the date on
which the proper officer makes an order permitting clearance and loading of
the goods for exportation under section 51;
(b) in the case of any other goods, on the date of payment of duty.]
(2) The provisions of this section shall not apply to baggage and goods
exported by post.
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
17. Assessment of duty.—
(1) After an importer has entered any imported goods under section 46 or an
exporter has entered any export goods under section 50 the imported goods or
the export goods, as the case may be, or such part thereof as may be necessary
may, without undue delay, be examined and tested by the proper officer.
(2) After such examination and testing, the duty, if any, leviable on such
goods shall, save as otherwise provided in section 85, be assessed.
(3) For the purpose of assessing duty under sub-section (2), the proper
officer may require the importer, exporter or any other person to produce any
contract, broker’s note, policy of insurance, catalogue or other document
whereby the duty leviable on the imported goods or export goods, as the case
may be, can be ascertained, and to furnish any information required for such
ascertainment which is in his power to produce or furnish, and thereupon the
importer, exporter or such other person shall produce such document and
furnish such information.
(4) Notwithstanding anything contained in this section, imported goods or
export goods may, prior to the examination or testing thereof, be permitted by
the proper officer to be assessed to duty on the basis of the statements made
in the entry relating thereto and the documents produced and the information
furnished under sub-section (3); but if it is found subsequently on
examination or testing of the goods or otherwise that any statement in such
entry or document or any information so furnished is not true in respect of
any matter relevant to the assessment, the goods may, without prejudice to any
other action which may be taken under this Act, be re-assessed to duty. 1[(5)
Where any assessment done under sub-section (2) is contrary to the claim of
the importer or exporter regarding valuation of goods, classification,
exemption or concessions of duty availed consequent to any notification
therefor under this Act, and in cases other than those where the importer or
the exporter, as the case may be, confirms his acceptance of the said
assessment in writing, the proper officer shall pass a speaking order within
fifteen days from the date of assessment of the bill of entry or the shipping
bill, as the case may be].
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
18. Provisional assessment of duty.—
(1) Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act but without prejudice to
the provisions contained in section 4—
(a) where the proper officer is satisfied that an importer or exporter is
unable to produce any document or furnish any information necessary for the
assessment of duty on the imported goods or the export goods, as the case may
be; or
(b) where the proper officer deems it necessary to subject any imported goods
or export goods to any chemical or other test for the purpose of assessment of
duty thereon; or
(c) where the importer or the exporter has produced all the necessary
documents and furnished full information for the assessment of duty but the
proper officer deems it necessary to make further enquiry for assessing the
duty, the proper officer may direct that the duty leviable on such goods may,
pending the production of such documents or furnishing of such information or
completion of such test or enquiry, be assessed provisionally if the importer
or the exporter as the case may be, furnishes such security as the proper
officer deems fit for the payment of the deficiency, if any, between the duty
finally assessed and the duty provisionally assessed.
(2) When the duty leviable on such goods is assessed finally in accordance
with the provisions of this Act, then—
(a) in the case of goods cleared for home consumption or exportation, the
amount paid shall be adjusted against the duty finally assessed and if the
amount so paid falls short of, or is in excess of, 1[the duty finally
assessed], the importer or the exporter of the goods shall pay the deficiency
or be entitled to a refund, as the case may be;
(b) in the case of warehoused goods, the proper officer may, where the duty
finally assessed is in excess of the duty provisionally assessed, require the
importer to execute a bond, binding himself in a sum equal to twice the amount
of the excess duty. 2[(3) The importer or exporter shall be liable to pay
interest, on any amount payable to the Central Government, consequent to the
final assessment order under sub-section (2), at the rate fixed by the Central
Government under section 28AB from the first day of the month in which the
duty is provisionally assessed till the date of payment thereof.
(4) Subject to sub-section (5), if any refundable amount referred to in clause
(a) of sub-section (2) is not refunded under that sub-section within three
months from the date of assessment, of duty finally, there shall be paid an
interest on such unrefunded amount at such rate fixed by the Central
Government under section 27A till the date of refund of such amount.
(5) The amount of duty refundable under sub-section (2) and the interest under
sub-section (4), if any, shall, instead of being credited to the Fund, be paid
to the importer or the exporter, as the case may be, if such amount is
relatable to—
(a) the duty and interest, if any, paid on such duty paid by the importer, or
the exporter, as the case may be, if he had not passed on the incidence of
such duty and interest, if any, paid on such duty to any other person;
(b) the duty and interest, if any, paid on such duty on imports made by an
individual for his personal use;
(c) the duty and interest, if any, paid on such duty borne by the buyer, if he
had not passed on the incidence of such duty and interest, if any, paid on
such duty to any other person;
(d) the export duty as specified in section 26;
(e) drawback of duty payable under sections 74 and 75.]
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
19. Determination of duty where goods consist of articles liable to different rates of duty.—Except as otherwise provided in any law for the time being in force, where goods consist of a set of articles, duty shall be calculated as follows:—
(a) articles liable to duty with reference to quantity shall be chargeable to
that duty;
(b) articles liable to duty with reference to value shall, if they are liable
to duty at the same rate, be chargeable to duty at that rate, and if they are
liable to duty at different rates, be chargeable to duty at the highest of
such rates;
(c) articles not liable to duty shall be chargeable to duty at the rate at
which articles liable to duty with reference to value are liable under clause
(b): Provided that,—
(a) accessories of, and spare parts or maintenance and repairing implements
for, any article which satisfy the conditions specified in the rules made in
this behalf shall be chargeable at the same rate of duty as that article;
(b) if the importer produces evidence to the satisfaction of the proper
officer regarding the value of any of the articles liable to different rates
of duty, such article shall be chargeable to duty separately at the rate
applicable to it.
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
1[20. Re-importation of goods.—If goods are imported into India after
exportation therefrom, such goods shall be liable to duty and be subject to
all the conditions and restrictions, if any, to which goods of the like kind
and value are liable or subject, on the importation thereof: 2[***]]
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
21. Goods derelict, wreck, etc.—All goods, derelict, jetsam, flotsam, and wreck brought or coming into India, shall be dealt with as if they were imported into India, unless it be shown to the satisfaction of the proper officer that they are entitled to be admitted duty-free under this Act.
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
22. Abatement of duty on damaged or deteriorated goods.—
(1) Where it is shown to the satisfaction of the 1[Assistant Commissioner of
Customs or Deputy Commissioner of Customs]—
(a) that any imported goods had been damaged or had deteriorated at any time
before or during the unloading of the goods in India; or
(b) that any imported goods, other than warehoused goods, had been damaged at
any time after the unloading thereof in India but before their examination
under section 17, on account of any accident not due to any wilful act,
negligence or default of the importer, his employee or agent; or
(c) that any warehoused goods had been damaged at any time before clearance
for home consumption on account of any accident not due to any wilful act,
negligence or default of the owner, his employee or agent, such goods shall be
chargeable to duty in accordance with the provisions of sub-section (2).
(2) The duty to be charged on the goods referred to in sub-section (1) shall
bear the same proportion to the duty chargeable on the goods before the damage
or deterioration which the value of the damaged or deteriorated goods bears to
the value of the goods before the damage or deterioration.
(3) For the purposes of this section, the value of damaged or deteriorated
goods may be ascertained by either of the following methods at the option of
the owner:—
(a) the value of such goods may be ascertained by the proper officer, or
(b) such goods may be sold by the proper officer by public auction or by
tender, or with the consent of the owner in any other manner, and the gross
sale proceeds shall be deemed to be the value of such goods.
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
23. Remission of duty on lost, destroyed or abandoned goods.—
(1) 1[Without prejudice to the provisions of section 13, where it is shown] to
the satisfaction of the 2[Assistant Commissioner of Customs or Deputy
Commissioner of Customs] that any imported goods have been lost 3[(otherwise
than as a result of pilferage)] or destroyed, at any time before clearance for
home consumption, the 2[Assistant Commissioner of Customs or Deputy
Commissioner of Customs] shall remit the duty on such goods. 4[(2) The owner
of any imported goods may, at any time before an order for clearance of goods
for home consumption under section 47 or an order for permitting the deposit
of goods in a warehouse under section 60 has been made, relinquish his title
to the goods and thereupon he shall not be liable to pay the duty thereon:]
5[Provided that the owner of any such imported goods shall not be allowed to
relinquish his title to such goods regarding which an offence appears to have
been committed under this Act or any other law for the time being in force.]
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
24. Power to make rules for denaturing or mutilation of goods.—The Central Government may make rules for permitting at the request of the owner the denaturing or mutilation of imported goods which are ordinarily used for more than one purpose so as to render them unfit for one or more of such purposes; and where any goods are so denatured or mutilated they shall be chargeable to duty at such rate as would be applicable if the goods had been imported in the denatured or mutilated form.
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
25. Power to grant exemption from duty.—
(1) If the Central Government is satisfied that it is necessary in the public
interest so to do, it may, by notification in the Official Gazette, exempt
generally either absolutely or subject to such conditions (to be fulfilled
before or after clearance) as may be specified in the notification goods of
any specified description from the whole or any part of duty of customs
leviable thereon. 1[(2) If the Central Government is satisfied that it is
necessary in the public interest so to do, it may, by special order in each
case, exempt from the payment of duty, under circumstances of an exceptional
nature to be stated in such order, any goods on which duty is leviable.]
2[(2A) The Central Government may, if it considers it necessary or expedient
so to do for the purpose of clarifying the scope or applicability of any
notification issued under sub-section (1) or order issued under sub-section
(2) insert an explanation in such notification or order, as the case may be,
by notification in the Official Gazette at any time within one year of issue
of the notification under sub-section (1) or order under sub-section (2), and
every such explanation shall have effect as if it had always been the part of
the first such notification or order, as the case may be.] 3[(3) An exemption
under sub-section (1) or sub-section (2) in respect of any goods from any part
of the duty of customs leviable thereon (the duty of customs leviable thereon
being hereinafter referred to as the statutory duty) may be granted by
providing for the levy of a duty on such goods at a rate expressed in a form
or method different from the form or method in which the statutory duty is
leviable and any exemption granted in relation to any goods in the manner
provided in this sub-section shall have effect subject to the condition that
the duty of customs chargeable on such goods shall in no case exceed the
statutory duty. Explanation.—“Form or method”, in relation to a rate of duty
of customs, means the basis, namely, valuation, weight, number, length, area,
volume or other measure with reference to which the duty is leviable.] 4[(4)
Every notification issued under sub-section (1) 5[or sub-section (2A)] shall,—
(a) unless otherwise provided, come into force on the date of its issue by the
Central Government for publication in the Official Gazette;
(b) also be published and offered for sale on the date of its issue by the
Directorate of Publicity and Public Relations of the Board, New Delhi.
(5) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (4), where a
notification comes into force on a date later than the date of its issue, the
same shall be published and offered for sale by the said Directorate of
Publicity and Public Relations on a date on or before the date on which the
said notification comes into force.] 6[(6) Notwithstanding anything contained
in this Act, no duty shall be collected if the amount of duty leviable is
equal to, or less than, one hundred rupees.]
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
26. Refund of export duty in certain cases.—Where on the exportation of any goods any duty has been paid, such duty shall be refunded to the person by whom or on whose behalf it was paid, if—
(a) the goods are returned to such person otherwise than by way of re-sale;
(b) the goods are re-imported within one year from the date of exportation;
and
(c) an application for refund of such duty is made before the expiry of six
months from the date on which the proper officer makes an order for the
clearance of the goods.
53 [ 26A Refund of import duty in certain cases. —
(1) Where on the importation of any goods capable of being easily identified
as such imported goods, any duty has been paid on clearance of such goods for
home consumption, such duty shall be refunded to the person by whom or on
whose behalf it was paid, if—
(a) the goods are found to be defective or otherwise not in conformity with
the specifications agreed upon between the importer and the supplier of goods:
Provided that the goods have not been worked, repaired or used after
importation except where such use was indispensable to discover the defects or
non-conformity with the specifications;
(b) the goods are identified to the satisfaction of the Assistant Commissioner
of Customs or Deputy Commissioner of Customs as the goods which were imported;
(c) the importer does not claim drawback under any other provisions of this
Act; and
(d) (i) the goods are exported; or
(ii) the importer relinquishes his title to the goods and abandons them to
customs; or
(iii) such goods are destroyed or rendered commercially valueless in the
presence of the proper officer, in such manner as may be prescribed and within
a period not exceeding thirty days from the date on which the proper officer
makes an order for the clearance of imported goods for home consumption under
section 47:
Provided that the period of thirty days may, on sufficient cause being shown,
be extended by the Commissioner of Customs for a period not exceeding three
months: Provided further that nothing contained in this section shall apply to
the goods regarding which an offence appears to have been committed under this
Act or any other law for the time being in force.
(2) An application for refund of duty shall be made before the expiry of six
months from the relevant date in such form and in such manner as may be
prescribed. Explanation. —For the purposes of this sub-section, “relevant
date” means,—
(a) in cases where the goods are exported out of India, the date on which the
proper officer makes an order permitting clearance and loading of goods for
exportation under section 51;
(b) in cases where the title to the goods is relinquished, the date of such
relinquishment;
(c) in cases where the goods are destroyed or rendered commercially valueless,
the date of such destruction or rendering of goods commercially valueless.
(3) No refund under sub-section (1) shall be allowed in respect of perishable
goods and goods which have exceeded their shelf life or their recommended
storage-before-use period.
(4) The Board may, by notification in the Official Gazette, specify any other
condition subject to which the refund under sub-section (1) may be allowed.]
54 [27. Claim for refund of duty.—
(1) Any person claiming refund of any duty—
(i) paid by him in pursuance of an order of assessment; or
(ii) borne by him, may make an application for refund of such 55 [duty and
interest, if any, paid on such duty] to the 56 [Assistant Commissioner of
Customs or Deputy Commissioner of Customs]— (a) in the case of any import made
by any individual for his personal use or by Government or by any educational,
research or charitable institution or hospital, before the expiry of one year;
(b) in any other case, before the expiry of six months, from the date of
payment of 57 [duty and interest, if any, paid on such duty] 58 [in such form
and manner] as may be specified in the regulations made in this behalf and the
application shall be accompanied by such documentary or other evidence
(including the documents referred to in section 28C) as the applicant may
furnish to establish that the amount of 57 [duty and interest, if any, paid on
such duty] in relation to which such refund is claimed was collected from, or
paid by, him and the incidence of such 57 [duty and interest, if any, paid on
such duty] had not been passed on by him to any other person: Provided that
where an application for refund has been made before the commencement of the
Central Excises and Customs Laws (Amendment) Act, 1991, such application shall
be deemed to have been made under this sub-section and the same shall be dealt
with in accordance with the provisions of sub-section (2): Provided further
that the limitation of one year or six months, as the case may be, shall not
apply where any 57 [duty and interest, if any, paid on such duty] has been
paid under protest: 59 [Provided also that in the case of goods which are
exempt from payment of duty by a special order issued under sub-section (2) of
section 25, the limitation of one year or six months, as the case may be,
shall be computed from the date of issue of such order]: 60 [Provided also
that where the duty becomes refundable as a consequence of judgment, decree,
order or direction of the appellate authority, Appellate Tribunal or any
court, the limitation of one year or six months, as the case may be, shall be
computed from the date of such judgment, decree, order or direction.]
Explanation 61 [I].—For the purposes of this sub-section, “the date of payment
of 57 [duty and interest, if any, paid on such duty], in relation to a person,
other than the importer, shall be construed as “the date of purchase of goods”
by such person. 62 [Explanation II.—Where any duty is paid provisionally under
section 18, the limitation of one year or six months, as the case may be,
shall be computed from the date of adjustment of duty after the final
assessment thereof.]
(2) If, on receipt of any such application, the 63 [Assistant Commissioner of
Customs or Deputy Commissioner of Customs] is satisfied that the whole or any
part of the 57 [duty and interest, if any, paid on such duty] paid by the
applicant is refundable, he may make an order accordingly and the amount so
determined shall be credited to the Fund: Provided that the amount of 57 [duty
and interest, if any, paid on such duty] as determined by the 63 [Assistant
Commissioner of Customs or Deputy Commissioner of Customs] under the foregoing
provisions of this sub-section shall, instead of being credited to the Fund,
be paid to the applicant, if suchshall, instead of being credited to the Fund,
be paid to the applicant, if such amount is relatable to—
(a) the 57 [duty and interest, if any, paid on such duty], paid by the
importer 64 [or the exporter, as the case may be], if he had not passed on the
incidence of such 4[duty and interest, if any, paid on such duty] to any other
person;
(b) the 57 [duty and interest, if any, paid on such duty], on imports made by
an individual for his personal use;
(c) the 57 [duty and interest, if any, paid on such duty] borne by the buyer,
if he had not passed on the incidence of such 57 [duty and interest, if any,
paid on such duty], to any other person;
(d) the export duty as specified in section 26;
(e) drawback of duty payable under sections 74 and 75;
(f) the 57 [duty and interest, if any, paid on such duty] borne by any other
such class of applicants as the Central Government may, by notification in the
Official Gazette, specify: Provided further that no notification under clause
(f) of the first proviso shall be issued unless in the opinion of the Central
Government the incidence of 57 [duty and interest, if any, paid on such duty]
has not been passed on by the persons concerned to any other person.
(3) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in any judgment, decree
order or direction of the Appellate Tribunal 65 [, the National Tax Tribunal]
or any court or in any other provision of this Act or the regulations made
thereunder or any other law for the time being in force, no refund shall be
made except as provided in sub-section (2).
(4) Every notification under clause (f) of the first proviso to sub-section
(2) shall be laid before each House of Parliament, if it is sitting as soon as
may be after the issue of the notification, and, if it is not sitting within
seven days of its re-assembly, and the Central Government shall, seek the
approval of Parliament to the notification by a resolution moved within a
period of fifteen days beginning with the day on which the notification is so
laid before the House of the People and if Parliament makes any modification
in the notification or directs that the notification should cease to have
effect, the notification shall thereafter have effect only in such modified
form or be of no effect, as the case may be, but without prejudice to the
validity of anything previously done thereunder.
(5) For the removal of doubts, it is hereby declared that any notification
issued under clause (f) of the first proviso to sub-section (2), including any
such notification approved or modified under sub-section (4), may be rescinded
by the Central Government at any time by notification in the Official
Gazette.]
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
1[27A. Interest on delayed refunds.—If any duty ordered to be refunded under
sub-section (2) of section 27 to an applicant is not refunded within three
months from the date of receipt of application under sub-section
(1) of that section, there shall be paid to that applicant interest at such
rate, 2[not below five per cent.] and not exceeding thirty per cent. per annum
as is for the time being fixed 3[by the Central Government, by notification in
the Official Gazette], on such duty from the date immediately after the expiry
of three months from the date of receipt of such application till the date of
refund of such duty: Provided that where any duty, ordered to be refunded
under sub-section (2) of section 27 in respect of an application under sub-
section (1) of that section made before the date on which the Finance Bill,
1995 receives the assent of the President*, is not refunded within three
months from such date, there shall be paid to the applicant interest under
this section from the date immediately after three months from such date, till
the date of refund of such duty. Explanation.—Where any order of refund is
made by the Commissioner (Appeals), Appellate Tribunal 4[, National Tax
Tribunal] or any court against an order of the 5[Assistant Commissioner of
Customs or Deputy Commissioner of Customs] under sub-section (2) of section
27, the order passed by the Commissioner (Appeals), Appellate Tribunal or, as
the case may be, by the court shall be deemed to be an order passed under that
sub-section for the purposes of this section.]
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
1[28. Notice for payment of duties, interest, etc.—
(1) When any duty has not been levied or has been short-levied or erroneously
refunded, or when any interest payable has not been paid, part paid or
erroneously refunded, the proper officer may,—
(a) in the case of any import made by any individual for his personal use or
by Government or by any educational, research or charitable institution or
hospital, within one year;
(b) in any other case, within six months, from the relevant date, serve notice
on the person chargeable with the duty or interest which has not been levied
or charged or which has been so short-levied or part paid or to whom the
refund has erroneously been made, requiring him to show cause why he should
not pay the amount specified in the notice: Provided that where any duty has
not been levied or has been short-levied or the interest has not been charged
or has been part paid or the duty or interest has been erroneously refunded by
reason of collusion or any wilful mis-statement or suppression of facts by the
importer or the exporter or the agent or employee of the importer or exporter,
the provisions of this sub-section shall have effect as if for the words “one
year” and “six months”, the words “five years” were substituted: 2[***]
Explanation.—Where the service of the notice is stayed by an order of a court,
the period of such stay shall be excluded in computing the aforesaid period of
one year or six months or five years, as the case may be. 3[(1A) When any duty
has not been levied or has been short-levied or the interest has not been
charged or has been part paid or the duty or interest has been erroneously
refunded by reason of collusion or any wilful misstatement or suppression of
facts by the importer or the exporter or the agent or employee of the importer
or exporter, to whom a notice is served under the proviso to sub­-section (1)
by the proper officer, may pay duty in full or in part as may be accepted by
him, and the interest payable thereon under section 28AB and penalty equal to
twenty-five per cent. of the duty specified in the notice or the duty so
accepted by such person within thirty days of the receipt of the notice.]
(2) The proper officer, after considering the representation, if any, made by
the person on whom notice is served under sub-section (1), shall determine the
amount of duty or interest due from such person (not being in excess of the
amount specified in the notice) and thereupon such person shall pay the amount
so determined: 4[Provided that if such person has paid the duty in full
together with interest and penalty under sub-section (1A), the proceedings in
respect of such person and other persons to whom notice is served under sub-
section (1) shall, without prejudice to the provisions of sections 135, 135A
and 140, be deemed to be conclusive as to the matters stated therein: Provided
further that, if such person has paid duty in part, interest and penalty under
sub-section (1A), the proper officer shall determine the amount of duty or
interest not being in excess of the amount partly due from such person.]
5[(2A) Where any notice has been served on a person under sub-section (1), the
proper officer,—
(i) In case any duty has not been levied or has been short-levied, or the
interest has not been paid or has been part paid or the duty or interest has
been erroneously refunded by reason of collusion or any wilful mis-statement
or suppression of facts, where it is possible to do so, shall determine the
amount of such duty or the interest, within a period of one year; and
(ii) In any other case, where it is possible to do so, shall determine the
amount of duty which has not been levied or has been short-levied or
erroneously refunded or the interest payable which has not been paid, part
paid or erroneously refunded, within a period of six months, from the date of
service of the notice on the person under sub-section (1).
(2B) Where any duty has not been levied or has been short-levied or
erroneously refunded, or any interest payable has not been paid, part paid or
erroneously refunded, the person, chargeable with the duty or the interest,
may pay the amount of duty or interest before service of notice on him under
sub-section (1) in respect of the duty or the interest, as the case may be,
and inform the proper officer of such payment in writing, who, on receipt of
such information, shall not serve any notice under sub-section (1) in respect
of the duty or the interest so paid: Provided that the proper officer may
determine the amount of short-payment of duty or interest, if any, which in
his opinion has not been paid by such person and, then, the proper officer
shall proceed to recover such amount in the manner specified in this section,
and the period of "one year" or "six months" as the case may be, referred to
in sub-section (1) shall be counted from the date of receipt of such
information of payment. Explanation 1.—Nothing contained in this sub-section
shall apply in a case where the duty was not levied or was not paid or the
interest was not paid or was part paid or the duty or interest was erroneously
refunded by reason of collusion or any wilful mis-statement or suppression of
facts by the importer or the exporter or the agent or employee of the importer
or exporter. Explanation 2.—For the removal of doubts, it is hereby declared
that the interest under section 28AB shall be payable on the amount paid by
the person under this sub-section and also on the amount of short-payment of
duty, if any, as may be determined by the proper officer, but for this sub-
section.
(2C) The provisions of sub-section (2B) shall not apply to any case where the
duty or the interest had become payable or ought to have been paid before the
date on which the Finance Bill, 2001 receives the assent of the President*.]
(3) For the purposes of sub-section (1), the expression “relevant date”
means,—
(a) in case where duty is not levied, or interest is not charged, the date on
which the proper officer makes an order for the clearance of the goods;
(b) in a case where duty is provisionally assessed under section 18, the date
of adjustment of duty after the final assessment thereof;
(c) in a case where duty or interest has been erroneously refunded, date of
refund;
(d) in any other case, the date of payment of duty or interest.]
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
1[28A. Power not to recover duties not levied or short-levied as a result of
general practice.—2[
(1) ] Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, if the Central
Government is satisfied—
(a) that a practice was, or is, generally prevalent regarding levy of duty
(including non-levy thereof) on any goods imported into, or exported from,
India; and
(b) that such goods were, or are, liable—
(i) to duty, in case where according to the said practice the duty was not, or
is not being, levied, or
(ii) to a higher amount of duty than what was, or is being, levied according
to the said practice, then, the Central Government may by notification in the
Official Gazette, direct that the whole of the duty payable on such goods, or,
as the case may be, the duty in excess of that payable on such goods, but for
the said practice, shall not be required to be paid in respect of the goods on
which the duty was not, or is not being, levied, or was, or is being, short-
levied, in accordance with the said practice.] 3[(2) Where any notification,
under sub-section (1) in respect of any goods has been issued, the whole of
the duty paid on such goods, or, as the case may be, the duty paid in excess
of that payable on such goods, which would not have been paid if the said
notification had been in force, shall be dealt with in accordance with the
provisions of sub-section (2) of section 27: Provided that the person claiming
the refund of such duty or, as the case may be, excess duty, makes an
application in this behalf to the 4[Assistant Commissioner of Customs or
Deputy Commissioner of Customs], in the form referred to in sub-section (1) of
section 27, before the expiry of six months from the date of issue of the said
notification.]
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
1[28AA. Interest on delayed payment of duty.—2[
(1) ] 3[Subject to the provisions contained in section 28AB, where a person,]
chargeable with the duty determined under sub-section (2) of section 28, fails
to pay such duty within three months from the date of such determination, he
shall pay, in addition to the duty, interest 4[at such rate not below 5[ten
per cent.] and not exceeding thirty-six per cent. per annum, as is for the
time being fixed by the Central Government, by notification in the Official
Gazette], on such duty from the date immediately after the expiry of the said
period of three months till the date of payment of such duty: Provided that
where a person, chargeable with duty determined under sub-section (2) of
section 28 before the date on which the Finance Bill, 1995 receives the assent
of the President*, fails to pay such duty within three months from such date,
then, such person shall be liable to pay interest under this section from the
date immediately after three months from such date, till the date of payment
of such duty. Explanation 1.—Where the duty determined to be payable is
reduced by the Commissioner (Appeals), Appellate Tribunal 6[, the National Tax
Tribunal] or, as the case may be, the court, the date of such determination
shall be the date on which an amount of duty is first determined to be
payable. Explanation 2.—Where the duty determined to be payable is increased
or further increased by the Commissioner (Appeals), Appellate Tribunal 6[, the
National Tax Tribunal] or, as the case may be, the court, the date of such
determination shall be,—
(a) for the amount of duty first determined to be payable, the date on which
the duty is so determined;
(b) for the amount of increased duty, the date of order by which the increased
amount of duty is first determined to be payable;
(c) for the amount of further increase of duty, the date of order on which the
duty is so further increased.] 7[(2) The provisions of sub-section (1) shall
not apply to cases where the duty or the interest becomes payable or ought to
be paid on and after the date on which the Finance Bill, 2001 receives the
assent of the President**.]
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
1[28AB. Interest on delayed payment of duty in special cases.—2[
(1) Where any duty has not been levied or paid or has been short-levied or
short-paid or erroneously refunded, the person who is liable to pay the duty
as determined under sub-section (2), or has paid the duty under sub-section
(2B) of section 28, shall, in addition to the duty, be liable to pay interest
at such rate not below 3[ten per cent.] and not exceeding thirty-six per cent.
per annum, as is for the time being fixed by the Central Government, by
notification in the Official Gazette, from the first day of the month
succeeding the month in which the duty ought to have been paid under this Act,
or from the date of such erroneous refund, as the case may be, but for the
provisions contained in sub-section (2) or sub-section (2B) of section 28,
till the date of payment of such duty: Provided that in such cases where the
duty becomes payable consequent to issue of an order, instruction or direction
by the Board under section 151A, and such amount of duty payable is
voluntarily paid in full, without reserving any right to appeal against such
payment at any subsequent stage, within forty-five days from the date of issue
of such order, instruction or direction, as the case may be, no interest shall
be payable and in other cases the interest shall be payable on the whole of
the amount, including the amount already paid.] 4[(2) The provisions of sub-
section (1) shall not apply to cases where the duty or interest had become
payable or ought to have been paid before the date on which the Finance Bill,
2001 receives the assent of the President*.] Explanation 1.—Where the duty
determined to be payable is reduced by theCommissioner (Appeals), the
Appellate Tribunal 5[, National Tax Tribunal] or, as the case may be, the
court, the interest shall be payable on such reduced amount of duty.
Explanation 2.—Where the duty determined to be payable is increased or further
increased by the Commissioner (Appeals), the Appellate Tribunal 5[, National
Tax Tribunal] or, as the case may be, the court, the interest shall be payable
on such increased or further increased amount of duty].
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
1[28B. Duties collected from the buyer to be deposited with the Central
Government.—
(1) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in any order or
direction of the Appellate Tribunal 2[, National Tax Tribunal] or any court or
in any other provision of this Act or the regulations made thereunder, 3[every
person who is liable to pay duty under this Act and has collected any amount
in excess of the duty assessed or determined or paid on any goods under this
Act from the buyer of such goods] in any manner as representing duty of
customs, shall forthwith pay the amount so col­lected to the credit of the
Central Government. 4[(2) Where any amount is required to be paid to the
credit of the Central Government under sub-section (1) and which has not been
so paid, the proper officer may serve on the person liable to pay such amount,
a notice requiring him to show cause why he should not pay the amount, as
specified in the notice to the credit of the Central Government.
(3) The proper officer shall, after considering the representation, if any,
made by the person on whom the notice is served under sub-section (2),
determine the amount due from such person (not being in excess of the amount
specified in the notice) and thereupon such person shall pay the amount so
determined.
(4) The amount paid to the credit of the Central Government under sub-section
(1) or sub-section (3) shall be adjusted against the duly payable by the
person on finalisation of assessment or any other proceeding for determination
of the duty relating to the goods referred to in sub-section (1).
(5) Where any surplus is left after the adjustment made under sub-section (4),
the amount of such surplus shall either be credited to the Fund or, as the
case may be, refunded to the person who has borne the incidence of such
amount, in accordance with the provisions of section 27 and such person may
make an application under that section in such cases within six months from
the date of the public notice to be issued by the Assistant Commissioner of
Customs for the refund of such surplus amount.]
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
1[28BA. Provisional attachment to protect revenue in certain cases.—
(1) Where, during the pendency of any proceeding under section 28 or section
28B, the proper officer is of the opinion that for the purpose of protecting
the interests of revenue, it is necessary so to do, he may, with the previous
approval of the Commissioner of Customs, by order in writing, attach
provisionally any property belonging to the person on whom notice is served
under sub-section (1) of section 28 or sub-section (2) of section 28B, as the
case may be, in accordance with the rules made in this behalf under section
142.
(2) Every such provisional attachment shall cease to have effect after the
expiry of a period of six months from the date of the order made under
sub­-section (1): Provided that the Chief Commissioner of Customs may, for
reasons to be recorded in writing, extend the aforesaid period by such further
period or periods as he thinks fit, so, however, that the total period of
extension shall not in any case exceed two years: Provided further that where
an application for settlement of case under section 127B is made to the
Settlement Commission, the period commencing from the date on which such
application is made and ending with the date on which an order under sub-
section (1) of section 127C is made shall be excluded from the period
specified in the preceding proviso.]
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
*28C. Price of goods to indicate the amount of duty paid thereon.—Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act or any other law for the time being in force, every person who is liable to pay duty on any goods shall, at the time of clearance of the goods, prominently indicate in all the documents relating to assessment, sales invoice, and other like documents, the amount of such duty which will form part of the price at which such goods are to be sold.
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
*28D. Presumption that incidence of duty has been passed on to the buyer.—Every person who has paid the duty on any goods under this Act shall, unless the contrary is proved by him, be deemed to have passed on the full incidence of such duty to the buyer of such goods.]
28E. Definitions.—In this Chapter, unless the context otherwise requires,—
(a) “Activity” means import or export;
(b) “advance ruling” means the determination, by the Authority, of a question
of law or fact specified in the application regarding the liability to pay
duty in relation to an activity which is proposed to be undertaken, by the
applicant;
97 [(c) “applicant” means—
(i) (a) a non-resident setting up a joint venture in India in collaboration
with a non-resident or a resident; or
(b) a resident setting up a joint venture in India in collaboration with a
non-resident; or
(c) a wholly owned subsidiary Indian company, of which the holding company is
a foreign company, who or which, as the case may be, proposes to undertake any
business activity in India: tc" who or which, as the case may be, proposes to
undertake any business activity in India\:"
(ii) a joint venture in India; or
(iii) a resident falling within any such class or category of persons, as the
Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, specify in
this behalf, and which or who, as the case may be, makes application for
advance ruling under sub-section (1) of section 28H;] tc" and which or who, as
the case may be, makes application for advance ruling under sub-section (1) of
section 28H;]" 98 [Explanation.—For the purposes of this clause, “joint
venture in India” means a contractual arrangement whereby two or more persons
undertake an economic activity which is subject to joint control and one or
more of the participants or partners or equity holders is a non-resident
having substantial interest in such arrangement;]
(d) “application” means an application made to the Authority under sub-section
(1) of section 28H; tc" (d) “application” means an application made to the
Authority under sub-section (1) of section 28H;"
(e) “Authority” means the 99 [Authority for Advance Rulings (Central Excise,
Customs and Service Tax)] constituted under section 28F;
(f) “Chairperson” means the Chairperson of the Authority;
(g) “Member” means a Member of the Authority and includes the Chairperson; and
100 [(h) “non-resident”, “Indian company” and “foreign company” have the
meanings respectively assigned to them in clauses (30), (26) and (23A) of
section 2 of the Income-tax Act, 1961 (43 of 1961).]
101 [ 28F Authority for advance rulings. —
(1) The Central Government shall, by notification in the Official Gazette,
constitute an Authority for giving advance rulings, to be called as 102 [the
Authority for Advance Rulings (Central Excise, Customs and Service Tax)].
(2) The Authority shall consist of the following Members appointed by the
Central Government, namely:—
(a) a Chairperson, who is a retired Judge of the Supreme Court;
(b) an officer of the Indian Customs and Central Excise Service who is
qualified to be a Member of the Board;
(c) an officer of the Indian Legal Service who is, or is qualified to be, an
Additional Secretary to the Government of India.
103 [(2A) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-sections (1) and (2), or
any other law for the time being in force, the Central Government may, by
notification in the Official Gazette, authorise an Authority constituted under
section 245-O of the Income-tax Act, 1961 (43 of 1961), to act as an Authority
under this Chapter.]
103 [(2B) On and from the date of publication of notification under sub-
section (2A), the Authority constituted under sub-section (1) shall not
exercise jurisdiction under this Chapter.]
103 [(2C) For the purposes of sub-section (2A), the reference to “an officer
of the Indian Revenue Service who is qualified to be a Member of Central Board
of Direct Taxes” in clause (b) of sub-section (2) of section 245-O of the
Income-tax Act, 1961 shall be construed as reference to “an officer of the
Indian Customs and Central Excise Service who is qualified to be a Member of
the Board”.]
103 [(2D) On and from the date of the authorisation of Authority under sub-
section (2A), every application and proceeding pending before the Authority
constituted under sub-section (1) shall stand transferred to the Authority so
authorised from the stage at which such proceedings stood before the date of
such authorisation.]
(3) The salaries and allowances payable to, and the terms and conditions of
service of, the Members shall be such as the Central Government may by rules
determine.
(4) The Central Government shall provide the Authority with such officers and
staff as may be necessary for the efficient exercise of the powers of the
Authority under this Act.
(5) The office of the Authority shall be located in Delhi.
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
*28G. Vacancies, etc., not to invalidate proceedings.—No proceeding before, or pronouncement of advance ruling, the Authority under this Chapter shall be questioned or shall be invalid on the ground merely of the existence of any vacancy or defect in the constitution of the Authority.
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
*28H. Application for advance ruling.—
(1) An applicant desirous of obtaining an advance ruling under this Chapter
may make an application in such form and in such manner as may be prescribed,
stating the question on which the advance ruling is sought.
(2) The question on which the advance ruling is sought shall be in respect
of,—
(a) classification of goods under the Customs Tariff Act, 1975 (51 of 1975);
(b) applicability of a notification issued under sub-section (1) of section
25, having a bearing on the rate of duty;
(c) the principles to be adopted for the purposes of determination of value of
the goods under the provisions of this Act; 1[(d) applicability of
notifications issued in respect of duties under this Act, the Customs Tariff
Act, 1975 (51 of 1975) and any duty chargeable under any other law for the
time being in force in the same manner as duty of customs leviable under this
Act.] 2[(e) determination of origin of the goods in terms of the rules
notified under the Customs Tariff Act, 1975 (51 of 1975) and matters relating
thereto.]
(3) The application shall be made in quadruplicate and be accompanied by a fee
of two thousand five hundred rupees.
(4) An applicant may withdraw his application within thirty days from the date
of the application.
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
*28-I. Procedure on receipt of application.—
(1) On receipt of an application, the Authority shall cause a copy thereof to
be forwarded to the Commissioner of Customs and, if necessary, call upon him
to furnish the relevant records: Provided that where any records have been
called for by the Authority in any case, such records shall, as soon as
possible, be returned to the Commissioner of Customs.
(2) The Authority may, after examining the application and the records called
for, by order, either allow or reject the application: Provided that the
Authority shall not allow the application 1[***] where the question raised in
the application is,—
(a) already pending in the applicant’s case before any officer of customs, the
Appellate Tribunal or any Court;
(b) the same as in a matter already decided by the Appellate Tribunal or any
Court: Provided further that no application shall be rejected, under this sub-
section unless an opportunity has been given to the applicant of being heard:
Provided also that where the application is rejected, reasons for such
rejection shall be given in the order.
(3) A copy of every order made under sub-section (2) shall be sent to the
applicant and to the Commissioner of Customs.
(4) Where an application is allowed under sub-section (2), the Authority
shall, after examining such further material as may be placed before it by the
applicant or obtained by the Authority, pronounce its advance ruling on the
question specified in the application.
(5) On a request received from the applicant, the Authority shall, before
pronouncing its advance ruling, provide an opportunity to the applicant of
being heard, either in person or through a duly authorised representative.
Explanation.—For the purposes of this sub-section, “authorised representative”
shall have the meaning assigned to it in sub-section (2) of section 146A.
(6) The Authority shall pronounce its advance ruling in writing within ninety
days of the receipt of application.
(7) A copy of the advance ruling pronounced by the Authority, duty signed by
the Members and certified in the prescribed manner shall be sent to the
applicant and to the Commissioner of Customs, as soon as may be, after such
pronouncement.
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
*28J. Applicability of advance ruling.—
(1) The advance ruling pronounced by the Authority under section 28-I shall be
binding only—
(a) on the applicant who had sought it;
(b) in respect of any matter referred to in sub-section (2) of section 28H;
(c) on the Commissioner of Customs, and the customs authorities subordinate to
him, in respect of the applicant.
(2) The advance ruling referred to in sub-section (1) shall be binding as
aforesaid unless there is a change in law or facts on the basis of which the
advance ruling has been pronounced.
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
*28K. Advance ruling to be void in certain circumstances.—
(1) Where the Authority finds, on a representation made to it by the
Commissioner of Customs or otherwise, that an advance ruling pronounced by it
under sub-section (6) of section 28-I has been obtained by the applicant by
fraud or misrepresentation of facts, it may, by order, declare such ruling to
be void ab initio and thereupon all the provisions of this Act shall apply
(after excluding the period beginning with the date of such advance ruling and
ending with the date of order under this sub-section) to the applicant as if
such advance ruling had never been made.
(2) A copy of the order made under sub-section (1) shall be sent to the
applicant and the Commissioner of Customs.
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
*28L. Powers of Authority.—
(1) The Authority shall, for the purpose of exercising its powers regarding
discovery and inspection, enforcing the attendance of any person and examining
him on oath, issuing commissions and compelling production of books of account
and other records, have all the powers of a civil court under the Code of
Civil Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908).
(2) The Authority shall be deemed to be a civil court for the purposes of
section 195, but not for the purposes of Chapter XXVI of the Code of Criminal
Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974), and every proceeding before the Authority shall
be deemed to be a judicial proceeding within the meaning of sections 193 and
228, and for the purpose of section 196, of the Indian Penal Code (45 of
1860).
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
*28M. Procedure of Authority.—The Authority shall, subject to the provisions of this Chapter, have power to regulate its own procedure in all matters arising out of the exercise of its powers under this Act.
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
29. Arrival of vessels and aircrafts in India.—
(1) The person-in-charge of a vessel or an aircraft entering India from any
place outside India shall not cause or permit the vessel or aircraft to call
or land—
(a) for the first time after arrival in India; or
(b) at any time while it is carrying passengers or cargo brought in that
vessel or aircraft, at any place other than a customs port or a customs
airport, as the case may be.
(2) The provisions of sub-section (1) shall not apply in relation to any
vessel or aircraft which is compelled by accident, stress of weather or other
unavoidable cause to call or land at a place other than a customs port or
customs airport but the person-in-charge of any such vessel or aircraft—
(a) shall immediately report the arrival of the vessel or the landing of the
aircraft to the nearest customs officer or the officer-in-charge of a police
station and shall on demand produce to him the log book belonging to the
vessel or the aircraft;
(b) shall not without the consent of any such officer permit any goods carried
in the vessel or the aircraft to be unloaded from, or any of the crew or
passengers to depart from the vicinity of, the vessel or the aircraft; and
(c) shall comply with any directions given by any such officer with respect to
any such goods, and no passenger or member of the crew shall, without the
consent of any such officer, leave the immediate vicinity of the vessel or the
aircraft: Provided that nothing in this section shall prohibit the departure
of any crew or passengers from the vicinity of, or the removal of goods from,
the vessel or aircraft where the departure or removal is necessary for reasons
of health, safety or the preservation of life or property.
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
30. Delivery of import manifest or import report.—1[
(1) The person-in-charge of—
(i) a vessel; or
(ii) an aircraft; or
(iii) a vehicle, carrying imported goods or any other person as may be
specified by the Central Government, by notification in the Official Gazette,
in this behalf shall, in the case of a vessel or an aircraft, deliver to the
proper officer an import manifest prior to the arrival of the vessel of the
aircraft, as the case may be, and in the case of a vehicle, an import report
within twelve hours after its arrival in the customs station, in the
prescribed form and if the import manifest or the import report or any part
thereof, is not delivered to the proper officer within the time specified in
this sub-section and if the proper officer is satisfied that there was no
sufficient cause for such delay, the person-in-charge or any other person
referred to in this sub-section, who caused such delay, shall be liable to a
penalty not exceeding fifty thousand rupees.]
(2) The person delivering the import manifest or import report shall at the
foot thereof make and subscribe to a declaration as to the truth of its
contents.
(3) If the proper officer is satisfied that the import manifest or import
report is in any way incorrect or incomplete, and that there was no fraudulent
intention, he may permit it to be amended or supplemented.
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
31. Imported goods not to be unloaded from vessel until entry inwards granted.—
(1) The master of a vessel shall not permit the unloading of any imported
goods until an order has been given by the proper officer granting entry
inwards to such vessel.
(2) No order under sub-section (1) shall be given until an import manifest has
been delivered or the proper officer is satisfied that there was sufficient
cause for not delivering it.
(3) Nothing in this section shall apply to the unloading of baggage
accompanying a passenger or a member of the crew, mail bags, animals,
perishable goods and hazardous goods.
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
32. Imported goods not to be unloaded unless mentioned in import manifest or import report.—No imported goods required to be mentioned under the regulations in an import manifest or import report shall, except with the permission of the proper officer, be unloaded at any customs station unless they are specified in such manifest or report for being unloaded at that customs station.
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
33. Unloading and loading of goods at approved places only.—Except with the permission of the proper officer, no imported goods shall be unloaded, and no export goods shall be loaded, at any place other than a place approved under clause
(a) of section 8 for the unloading or loading of such goods.
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
34. Goods not to be unloaded or loaded except under supervision of customs officer.—Imported goods shall not be unloaded from, and export goods shall not be loaded on, any conveyance except under the supervision of the proper officer: Provided that the Board may, by notification in the Official Gazette, give general permission and the proper officer may in any particular case give special permission, for any goods or class of goods to be unloaded or loaded without the supervision of the proper officer.
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
35. Restrictions on goods being water-borne.—No imported goods shall be water-borne for being landed from any vessel, and no export goods which are not accompanied by a shipping bill, shall be water-borne for being shipped, unless the goods are accompanied by a boat-note in the prescribed form: Provided that the Board may, by notification in the Official Gazette, give general permission, and the proper officer may in any particular case give special permission, for any goods or any class of goods to be water-borne without being accompanied by a boat-note.
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
36. Restrictions on unloading and loading of goods on holidays, etc.—No imported goods shall be unloaded from, and no export goods shall be loaded on any conveyance on any Sunday or on any holiday observed by the Customs Department or on any other day after the working hours, except after giving the prescribed notice and on payment of the prescribed fees, if any: Provided that no fees shall be levied for the unloading and loading of baggage accompanying a passenger or a member of the crew, and mail bags.
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
37. Power to board conveyances.—The proper officer may, at any time, board any conveyance carrying imported goods or export goods and may remain on such conveyance for such period as he considers necessary.
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
38. Power to require production of documents and ask questions.—For the purposes of carrying out the provisions of this Act, the proper officer may require the person-in-charge of any conveyance or animal carrying imported goods or export goods to produce any document and to answer any questions and thereupon such person shall produce such documents and answer such questions.
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
39. Export goods not to be loaded on vessel until entry-outwards granted.—The master of a vessel shall not permit the loading of any export goods, other than baggage and mail bags, until an order has been given by the proper officer granting entry-outwards to such vessel.
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
40. Export goods not to be loaded unless duly passed by proper officer.—The person-in-charge of a conveyance shall not permit the loading at a customs station—
(a) of export goods, other than baggage and mail bags, unless a shipping bill
or bill of export or a bill of transhipment, as the case may be, duly passed
by the proper officer, has been handed over to him by the exporter;
(b) of baggage and mail bags, unless their export has been duly permitted by
the proper officer.
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
41. Delivery of export manifest or export report.—
(1) The person-in-charge of a conveyance carrying export goods shall, before
departure of the conveyance from a customs station, deliver to the proper
officer in the case of a vessel or aircraft, an export manifest, and in the
case of a vehicle, an export report, in the prescribed form: 1[***]
(2) The person delivering the export manifest or export report shall at the
foot thereof make and subscribe to a declaration as to the truth of its
contents.
(3) If the proper officer is satisfied that the export manifest or export
report is in any way incorrect or incomplete and that there was no fraudulent
intention, he may permit such manifest or report to be amended or
supplemented.
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
42. No conveyance to leave without written order.—
(1) The person-in-charge of a conveyance which has brought any imported goods
or has loaded any export goods at a customs station shall not cause or permit
the conveyance to depart from that customs station until a written order to
that effect has been given by the proper officer.
(2) No such order shall be given until—
(a) the person-in-charge of the conveyance has answered the questions put to
him under section 38;
(b) the provisions of section 41 have been complied with;
(c) the shipping bills or bills of export, the bills of transhipment, if any,
and such other documents, as the proper officer may require, have been
delivered to him;
(d) all duties leviable on any stores consumed in such conveyance, and all
charges and penalties due in respect of such conveyance or from the person-in-
charge thereof have been paid or the payment secured by such guarantee or
deposit of such amount as the proper officer may direct;
(e) the person-in-charge of the conveyance has satisfied the proper officer
that no penalty is leviable on him under section 116 or the payment of any
penalty that may be levied upon him under that section has been secured by
such guarantee or deposit of such amount as the proper officer may direct;
(f) in any case where any export goods have been loaded without payment of
export duty or in contravention of any provision of this Act or any other law
for the time being in force relating to export of goods,—
(i) such goods have been unloaded, or
(ii) where the 1[Assistant Commissioner of Customs or Deputy Commissioner of
Customs] is satisfied that it is not practicable to unload such goods, the
person-in-charge of the conveyance has given an undertaking, secured by such
guarantee or deposit of such amount as the proper officer may direct, for
bringing back the goods to India.
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
43. Exemption of certain classes of conveyances from certain provisions of this Chapter.—
(1) The provisions of sections 30, 41 and 42 shall not apply to a vehicle
which carries no goods other than the luggage of its occupants.
(2) The Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette,
exempt the following classes of conveyances from all or any of the provisions
of this Chapter—
(a) conveyances belonging to the Government or any foreign Government;
(b) vessels and aircrafts which temporarily enter India by reason of any
emergency.
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
44. Chapter not to apply to baggage and postal articles.—The provisions of this Chapter shall not apply to
(a) baggage, and (b) goods imported or to be exported by post.
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
45. Restrictions on custody and removal of imported goods.—
(1) Save as otherwise provided in any law for the time being in force, all
imported goods, unloaded in a customs area shall remain in the custody of such
person as may be approved by the 1[Commissioner of Customs] until they are
cleared for home consumption or are warehoused or are transhipped in
accordance with the provisions of Chapter VIII.
(2) The person having custody of any imported goods in a customs area, whether
under the provisions of sub-section (1) or under any law for the time being in
force,—
(a) shall keep a record of such goods and send a copy thereof to the proper
officer;
(b) shall not permit such goods to be removed from the customs area or
otherwise dealt with, except under and in accordance with the permission in
writing of the proper officer. 2[(3) Notwithstanding anything contained in any
law for the time being in force, if any imported goods are pilferred after
unloading thereof in a customs area while in the custody of a person referred
to in sub-section (1), that person shall be liable to pay duty on such goods
at the rate prevailing on the date of delivery of an import manifest or, as
the case may be, an import report to the proper officer under section 30 for
the arrival of the conveyance in which the said goods were carried.]
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
46. Entry of goods on importation.—
(1) The importer of any goods, other than goods intended for transit or
transhipment, shall make entry thereof by presenting to the proper officer a
bill of entry for home consumption or warehousing in the prescribed form:
Provided that if the importer makes and subscribes to a declaration before the
proper officer to the effect that he is unable for want of full information to
furnish all the particulars of the goods required under this sub-section, the
proper officer may, pending the production of such information, permit him,
previous to the entry thereof (a) to examine the goods in the presence of an
officer of customs, or (b) to deposit the goods in a public warehouses
appointed under section 57 without warehousing the same.
(2) Save as otherwise permitted by the proper officer, a bill of entry shall
include all the goods mentioned in the bill of lading or other receipt given
by the carrier to the consignor.
(3) A bill of entry under sub-section (1) may be presented at any time after
the delivery of the import manifest or import report, as the case may be:
Provided that the 1[Commissioner of Customs] may in any special circumstances
permit a bill of entry to be presented before the delivery of 2[such report]:
3[Provided further that a bill of entry may be presented even before the
delivery of such manifest if the vessel or the aircraft by which the goods
have been shipped for importation into India is expected to arrive within
thirty days from the date of such presentation.]
(4) The importer while presenting a bill of entry shall at the foot thereof
make and subscribe to a declaration as to the truth of the contents of such
bill of entry and shall, in support of such declaration, produce to the proper
officer the invoice, if any, relating to the imported goods.
(5) If the proper officer is satisfied that the interests of revenue are not
prejudicially affected and that there was no fraudulent intention, he may
permit substitution of a bill of entry for home consumption for a bill of
entry for warehousing or vice versa.
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
47. Clearance of goods for home consumption.—1[
(1) ] Where the proper officer is satisfied that any goods entered for home
consumption are not prohibited goods and the importer has paid the import
duty, if any, assessed thereon and any charges payable under this Act in
respect of the same, the proper officer may make an order permitting clearance
of the goods for home consumption. 2[(2) Where the importer fails to pay the
import duty under sub-section (1) 3[within 4[five days], excluding holidays]
from the date on which the bill of entry is returned to him for payment of
duty, he shall pay interest 5[at such rate, not below 6[ten per cent.] and not
exceeding thirty-six per cent. per annum, as is for the time being fixed by
the Central Government, by notification in the Official Gazette] on such duty
till the date of payment of said duty: Provided that where the bill of entry
is returned for payment of duty before the commencement of the Customs
(Amendment) Act, 1991 and the importer has not paid such duty before such
commencement, the date of return of such bill of entry to him shall be deemed
to be the date of such commencement for the purpose of this section:]
7[Provided further that if the Board is satisfied that it is necessary in the
public interest so to do, it may, by order for reasons to be recorded, waive
the whole or part of any interest payable under this section.]
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
48. Procedure in case of goods not cleared, warehoused or transhipped within 1[thirty days] after unloading.—If any goods brought into India from a place outside India are not cleared for home consumption or warehoused or transhipped 2[within 3[thirty days]] from the date of the unloading thereof at a customs station or within such further time as the proper officer may allow or if the title to any imported goods is relinquished, such goods may, after notice to the importer and with the permission of the proper officer be sold by the person having the custody thereof: Provided that—
(a) animals, perishable goods and hazardous goods, may, with the permission of
the proper officer, be sold at any time;
(b) arms and ammunition may be sold at such time and place and in such manner
as the Central Government may direct. Explanation.—In this section, “arms” and
“ammunition” have the meanings respectively assigned to them in the Arms Act,
1959 (54 of 1959).
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
49. Storage of imported goods in warehouse pending clearance. —Where in the case of any imported goods, whether dutiable or not, entered for home consumption, the 1[Assistant Commissioner of Customs or Deputy Commissioner of Customs] is satisfied on the application of the importer that the goods cannot be cleared within a reasonable time, the goods may, pending clearance, be permitted to be stored in a public warehouse, or in a private warehouse, if facilities for deposit in a public warehouse are not available; but such goods shall not be deemed to be warehoused goods for the purposes of this Act, and accordingly the provisions of Chapter IX shall not apply to such goods.
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
50. Entry of goods for exportation.—
(1) The exporter of any goods shall make entry thereof by presenting to the
proper officer in the case of goods to be exported in a vessel or aircraft, a
shipping bill, and in the case of goods to be exported by land, a bill of
export in the prescribed form.
(2) The exporter of any goods, while presenting a shipping bill or bill of
export, shall at the foot thereof make and subscribe to a declaration as to
the truth of its contents.
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
51. Clearance of goods for exportation.—Where the proper officer is satisfied that any goods entered for export are not prohibited goods and the exporter has paid the duty, if any, assessed thereon and any charges payable under this Act in respect of the same, the proper officer may make an order permitting clearance and loading of the goods for exportation.
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
52. Chapter not to apply to baggage, postal articles and stores.—The provisions of this Chapter shall not apply to
(a) baggage, (b) goods imported by post, and (c) stores.
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
1[53. Transit of certain goods without payment of duty.—
(1) Subject to the provisions of section 11, any goods imported in a
conveyance and mentioned in the import manifest or the import report, as the
case may be, as for transit in the same conveyance to any place outside India
or any customs station may be allowed to be so transited without payment of
duty.]
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
1[54. Transhipment of goods without payment of duty.—
(1) Where any goods imported into a customs port or customs airport are
intended for transhipment, a bill of transhipment shall be presented to the
proper officer in the prescribed form: 2[Provided that where the goods are
being transhipped under an international treaty or bilateral agreement between
the Government of India and Government of a foreign country, a declaration for
transhipment instead of a bill of transhipment shall be presented to the
proper officer in the prescribed form.]
(2) Subject to the provisions of section 11, where any goods imported into a
customs station are mentioned in the import manifest or the import report, as
the case may be, as for transhipment to any place outside India, such goods
may be allowed to be so transhipped without payment of duty.
(3) Where any goods imported into a customs station are mentioned in the
import manifest or the import report, as the case may be, as for transhipment—
(a) to any major port as defined in the Indian Ports Act, 1908 (15 of 1908),
or the customs airport at Mumbai, Calcutta, Delhi or Chennai or any other
customs port or customs airport which the Board may, by notification in the
Official Gazette, specify in this behalf, or
(b) to any other customs station and the proper officer is satisfied that the
goods are bona fide intended for transhipment of such customs station, the
proper officer may allow the goods to be transhipped, without payment of duty,
subject to such conditions as may be prescribed for the due arrival of such
goods at the customs station to which transhipment is allowed.]
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
1[55. Liability of duty on goods transited under section 53 or transhipped
under section 54.—Where any goods are allowed to be transited under section 53
or transhipped under sub-section (3) of section 54 to any customs station,
they shall, on their arrival at such station, be liable to duty and shall be
entered in like manner as goods are entered on the first importation thereof
and the provisions of this Act and any rules and regulations shall, so far as
may be, apply in relation to such goods.]
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
56. Transport of certain classes of goods subject to prescribed conditions.—Import goods may be transported without payment of duty from one land customs station to another, and any goods may be transported from one part of India to another part through any foreign territory, subject to such conditions as may be prescribed for the due arrival of such goods at the place of destination.
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
57. Appointing of public warehouses.—At any warehousing station, the 1[Assistant Commissioner of Customs or Deputy Commissioner of Customs] may appoint public warehouses wherein dutiable goods may be deposited 2[***].
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
58. Licensing of private warehouses.—
(1) At any warehousing station, the 1[Assistant Commissioner of Customs or
Deputy Commissioner of Customs] may license private warehouses wherein
dutiable goods imported by or on behalf of the licensee, or any other imported
goods in respect of which facilities for deposit in a public warehouse are not
available, may be deposited 2[***].
(2) The 1[Assistant Commissioner of Customs or Deputy Commissioner of Customs]
may cancel a licence granted under sub-section (1)—
(a) by giving one month’s notice in writing to the licensee; or
(b) if the licensee has contravened any provision of this Act or the rules or
regulations or committed breach of any of the conditions of the licence:
Provided that before any licence is cancelled under clause (b), the licensee
shall be given a reasonable opportunity of being heard.
(3) Pending an enquiry whether a licence granted under sub-section (1) should
be cancelled under clause (b) of sub-section (2), the 1[Assistant Commissioner
of Customs or Deputy Commissioner of Customs] may suspend the licence.
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
59. Warehousing bond.—1[
(1) The importer of any goods specified in 2[***] sub-section (1) of section
61, which have been entered for warehousing and assessed to duty under section
17 or section 18 shall execute a bond binding himself in a sum equal to twice
the amount of the duty assessed on such goods—
(a) to observe all the provisions of this Act and the rules and regulations in
respect of such goods;
(b) to pay on or before a date specified in a notice of demand,—
(i) all duties, and interest, if any, payable under sub-section (2) of section
61;
(ii) rent and charges claimable on account of such goods under this Act,
together with interest on the same from the date so specified 3[at such rate
not below eighteen per cent. and not exceeding thirty-six per cent. per annum,
as is for the time being fixed by the Central Government, by notification in
the Official Gazette]; and
(c) to discharge all penalties incurred for violation of the provisions of
this Act and the rules and regulations in respect of such goods.]
(2) For the purposes of sub-section (1), the 4[Assistant Commissioner of
Customs or Deputy Commissioner of Customs] may permit an importer to enter
into a general bond in such amount as the 4[Assistant Commissioner of Customs
or Deputy Commissioner of Customs] may approve in respect of the warehousing
of goods to be imported by him within a specified period.
(3) A bond executed under this section by an importer in respect of any goods
shall continue in force notwithstanding the transfer of the goods to any other
person or the removal of the goods to another warehouse: Provided that where
the whole of the goods or any part thereof are transferred to another person,
the proper officer may accept a fresh bond from the transferee in a sum equal
to twice the amount of duty assessed on the goods transferred and thereupon
the bond executed by the transferor shall be enforceable only for a sum
mentioned therein less the amount for which a fresh bond is accepted from the
transferee.
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
1[59A. Conditions for warehousing of certain goods.—[Rep. by the Finance Act,
1994 (32 of 1994), sec. 60 (w.e.f. 13-5-1994).]]
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
60. Permission for deposit of goods in a warehouse.—When the provisions of 1[section 59 2[***]] have been complied with in respect of any goods, the proper officer may make an order permitting the deposit of the goods in a warehouse, 3[***].
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
1[61. Period for which goods may remain warehoused.—
(1) Any warehoused goods may be left in the warehouse in which they are
deposited or in any warehouse to which they may be removed,—
(a) in the case of capital goods intended for use in any hundred per cent.
export oriented undertaking, till the expiry of five years; 2[***] 3[(aa) in
the case of goods other than capital goods intended for use in any hundred per
cent. export-oriented undertaking, till the expiry of three years; and]
(b) in the case of any other goods, till the expiry of one year, after the
date on which the proper officer has made an order under section 60 permitting
the deposit of the goods in a warehouse: Provided that— 4[(i) in the case of
any goods which are not likely to deteriorate, the period specified in
5[clause (a) or clause (aa) or clause (b)] may, on sufficient cause being
shown, be extended—
(A) in the case of such goods intended for use in any hundred per cent.
export-oriented undertaking, by the Commissioner of Customs, for such period
as he may deem fit; and
(B) in any other case, by the Commissioner of Customs, for a period not
exceeding six months and by the Chief Commissioner of Customs for such further
period as he may deem fit;]
(ii) in the case of any goods referred to in clause (b), if they are likely to
deteriorate, the aforesaid period of one year may be reduced by the
6[Commissioner of Customs] to such shorter period as he may deem fit: Provided
further that when the licence for any private warehouse is cancelled, the
owner of any goods warehoused therein shall, within seven days from the date
on which notice of such cancellation is given or within such extended period
as the proper officer may allow, remove the goods from such warehouse to
another warehouse or clear them for home consumption or exportation.
(2) 7[Where any warehoused goods—
(i) specified in 8[sub-clause (a) or sub-clause (aa)] of sub-section (1),
remain in a warehouse beyond the period specified in that sub-section by
reason of extension of the aforesaid period or otherwise, interest at such
rate as is specified in section 47 shall be payable, on the amount of duty
payable at the time of clearance of the goods in accordance with the
provisions of section 15 on the warehoused goods, for the period from the
expiry of the said warehousing period till the date of payment of duty on the
warehoused goods;
(ii) specified in sub-clause (b) of sub-section (1), remain in warehouse
beyond a period of 9[ninety days], interest shall be payable at such rate or
rates not exceeding the rate specified in section 47, as may be fixed by the
Board, on the amount of duty payable at the time of clearance of the goods in
accordance with the provisions of section 15 on the warehoused goods, for the
period from the expiry of the said 9[ninety days], till the date of payment of
duty on the warehoused goods]: Provided that the Board may, if it considers it
necessary so to do in the public interest, by order and under circumstances of
an exceptional nature, to be specified in such order, waive the whole or part
of any interest payable under this section in respect of any warehoused goods:
Provided further that the Board may, if it is satisfied that it is necessary
so to do in the public interest, by notification in the Official Gazette,
specify the class of goods in respect of which no interest shall be charged
under this section. Explanation.—For the purposes of this section, “hundred
per cent. export- oriented undertaking” has the same meaning as in Explanation
2 to sub-section (1) of section 3 of the Central Excises and Salt Act, 1944 (1
of 1944)*.]
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
62. Control over warehoused goods.—
(1) All warehoused goods shall be subject to the control of the proper
officer.
(2) No person shall enter a warehouse or remove any goods therefrom without
the permission of the proper officer.
(3) The proper officer may cause any warehouse to be locked with the lock of
the Customs Department and no person shall remove or break such lock.
(4) The proper officer shall have access to every part of a warehouse and
power to examine the goods therein.
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
63. Payment of rent and warehouse charges.—
(1) The owner of any warehoused goods shall pay to the warehouse-keeper rent
and warehouse charges at the rate fixed under any law for the time being in
force or where no rates are so fixed, at such rate as may be fixed by the
2[Commissioner of Customs].
(2) If any rent or warehouse charges are not paid within ten days from the
date when they became due, the warehouse-keeper may, after notice to the owner
of the warehoused goods and with the permission of the proper officer cause to
be sold (any transfer of the warehoused goods notwithstanding) such sufficient
portion of the goods as the warehouse-keeper may select.
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
64. Owner’s right to deal with warehoused goods.—With the sanction of the proper officer and on payment of the prescribed fees, the owner of any goods may either before or after warehousing the same—
(a) inspect the goods;
(b) separate damaged or deteriorated goods from the rest;
(c) sort the goods or change their containers for the purpose of preservation,
sale, export or disposal of the goods;
(d) deal with the goods and their containers in such manner as may be
necessary to prevent loss or deterioration or damage to the goods;
(e) show the goods for sale; or
(f) take samples of goods without entry for home consumption, and if the
proper officer so permits, without payment of duty on such samples.
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
64. Owner’s right to deal with warehoused goods.—With the sanction of the proper officer and on payment of the prescribed fees, the owner of any goods may either before or after warehousing the same—
(a) inspect the goods;
(b) separate damaged or deteriorated goods from the rest;
(c) sort the goods or change their containers for the purpose of preservation,
sale, export or disposal of the goods;
(d) deal with the goods and their containers in such manner as may be
necessary to prevent loss or deterioration or damage to the goods;
(e) show the goods for sale; or
(f) take samples of goods without entry for home consumption, and if the
proper officer so permits, without payment of duty on such samples.
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
65. Manufacture and other operations in relation to goods in a warehouse.—
(1) With the sanction of the 1[Assistant Commissioner of Customs or Deputy
Commissioner of Customs] and subject to such conditions and on payment of such
fees as may be prescribed, the owner of any warehoused goods may carry on any
manufacturing process or other operations in the warehouse in relation to such
goods.
(2) Where in the course of any operation permissible in relation to any
warehoused goods under sub-section (1) there is any waste or refuse, the
following provisions shall apply:—
(a) if the whole or any part of the goods resulting from such operations are
exported, import duty shall be remitted on the quantity of the warehoused
goods contained in so much of the waste or refuse as has arisen from the
operations carried on in relation to the goods exported: Provided that such
waste or refuse is either destroyed or duty is paid on such waste or refuse as
if it has been imported into India in that form;
(b) if the whole or any part of the goods resulting from such operations are
cleared from the warehouse for home consumption, import duty shall be charged
on the quantity of the warehoused goods contained in so much of the waste or
refuse as has arisen from the operations carried on in relation to the goods
cleared for home consumption.
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
66. Power to exempt imported materials used in the manufacture of goods in warehouse.—If any imported materials are used in accordance with the provisions of section 65 for the manufacture of any goods and the rate of duty leviable on the imported materials exceeds the rate of duty leviable on such goods, the Central Government, if satisfied that in the interest of the establishment or development of any domestic industry it is necessary so to do, may, by notification in the Official Gazette, exempt the imported materials from the whole or part of the excess rate of duty.
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
67. Removal of goods from one warehouse to another.—The owner of any warehoused goods may, with the permission of the proper officer, remove them from one warehouse to another, 1[***] subject to such conditions as may be prescribed for the due arrival of the warehoused goods at the warehouse to which removal is permitted.
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
68. Clearance of warehoused goods for home consumption.—The importer of any warehoused goods may clear them for home consumption if—
(a) a bill of entry for home consumption in respect of such goods has been
presented in the prescribed form;
(b) the import duty leviable on such goods and all penalties, rent, interest
and other charges payable in respect of such goods have been paid; and
(c) an order for clearance of such goods for home consumption has been made by
the proper officer: 1[Provided that the owner of any warehoused goods may, at
any time before an order for clearance of goods for home consumption has been
made in respect of such goods, relinquish his title to the goods upon payment
of rent, interest, other charges and penalties that may be payable in respect
of the goods and upon such relinquishment, he shall not be liable to pay duty
thereon.] 2[Provided further that the owner of any such warehoused goods shall
not be allowed to relinquish his title to such goods regarding which an
offence appears to have been committed under this Act or any other law for the
time being in force.]
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
69. Clearance of warehoused goods for exportation.—
(1) Any warehoused goods may be exported to a place outside India without
payment of import duty if—
(a) a shipping bill or a bill of export has been presented in respect of such
goods in the prescribed form;
(b) the export duty, penalties, rent, interest and other charges payable in
respect of such goods have been paid; and
(c) an order for clearance of such goods for exportation has been made by the
proper officer.
(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1), if the Central
Government is of opinion that warehoused goods of any specified description
are likely to be smuggled back into India, it may, by notification in the
Official Gazette, direct that such goods shall not be exported to any place
outside India without payment of duty or may be allowed to be so exported
subject to such restrictions and conditions as may be specified in the
notification.
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
70. Allowance in case of volatile goods.—
(1) When any warehoused goods to which this section applies are at the time of
delivery from a warehouse found to be deficient in quantity on account of
natural loss, the 1[Assistant Commissioner of Customs or Deputy Commissioner
of Customs] may remit the duty on such deficiency.
(2) This section applies to such warehoused goods as the Central Government,
having regard to the volatility of the goods and the manner of their storage,
may, by notification in the Official Gazette, specify.
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
71. Goods not to be taken out of warehouse except as provided by this Act.—No warehoused goods shall be taken out of a warehouse except on clearance for home consumption or re-exportation or for removal to another warehouse, or as otherwise provided by this Act.
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
72. Goods improperly removed from warehouse, etc.—
(1) In any of the following cases, that is to say,—
(a) where any warehoused goods are removed from a warehouse in contravention
of section 71;
(b) where any warehoused goods have not been removed from a warehouse at the
expiration of the period during which such goods are permitted under section
61 to remain in a warehouse;
(c) where any warehoused goods have been taken under section 64 as samples
without payment of duty;
(d) where any goods in respect of which a bond has been executed under
1[section 59 2[***]] and which have not been cleared for home consumption or
exportation are not duly accounted for to the satisfaction of the proper
officer, the proper officer may demand, and the owner of such goods shall
forthwith pay, the full amount of duty chargeable on account of such goods
together with all penalties, rent, interest and other charges payable in
respect of such goods.
(2) If any owner fails to pay any amount demanded under sub-section (1), the
proper officer may, without prejudice to any other remedy, cause to be
detained and sold, after notice to the owner (any transfer of the goods
notwithstanding) such sufficient portion of his goods, if any, in the
warehouse, as the said officer may select.
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
73. Cancellation and return of warehousing bond.—When the whole of the goods covered by any bond executed under 1[section 59 2[***]] have been cleared for home consumption or exported or are otherwise duly accounted for, and when all amounts due on account of such goods have been paid, the proper officer shall cancel the bond as discharged in full, and shall on demand deliver it, so cancelled, to the person who has executed or is entitled to receive it.
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
74. Drawback allowable on re-export of duty-paid goods.—
(1) When any goods capable of being easily identified which have been imported
into India and upon which 1[any duty has been paid on importation,—
(i) are entered for export and the proper officer makes an order permitting
clearance and loading of the goods for exportation under section 51; or
(ii) are to be exported as baggage and the owner of such baggage, for the
purpose of clearing it, makes a declaration of its contents to the proper
officer under section 77 (which declaration shall be deemed to be an entry for
export for the purposes of this section) and such officer makes an order
permitting clearance of the goods for exportation; or
(iii) are entered for export by post under section 82 and the proper officer
makes an order permitting clearance of the goods for exportation, ninety-eight
per cent. of such duty shall, except as otherwise hereinafter provided, be re-
paid as drawback, if—]
(a) the goods are identified to the satisfaction of the 2[Assistant
Commissioner of Customs or Deputy Commissioner of Customs] as the goods which
were imported; and
(b) the goods are entered for export within two years from the date of payment
of duty on the importation thereof: Provided that in any particular case the
aforesaid period of two years may, on sufficient cause being shown, be
extended by the Board by such further period as it may deem fit.
(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1), the rate of
drawback in the case of goods which have been used after the importation
thereof shall be such as the Central Government, having regard to the duration
of use, depreciation in value and other relevant circumstances, may, by
notification in the Official Gazette, fix. 3[(3) The Central Government may
make rules for the purpose of carrying out the provisions of this section and,
in particular, such rules may—
(a) provide for the manner in which the identity of goods imported in
different consignments which are ordinarily stored together in bulk, may be
established;
(b) specify the goods which shall be deemed to be not capable of being easily
identified; and
(c) provide for the manner and the time within which a claim for payment of
drawback is to be filed.]
(4) For the purposes of this section—
(a) goods shall be deemed to have been entered for export on the date with
reference to which the rate of duty is calculated under section 16;
(b) in the case of goods assessed to duty provisionally under section 18, the
date of payment of the provisional duty shall be deemed to be the date of
payment of duty.
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
75. Drawback on imported materials used in the manufacture of goods which are exported.—
(1) Where it appears to the Central Government that in respect of goods of any
class or description 1[manufactured, processed or on which any operation has
been carried out in India] 2[, being goods which have been entered for export
and in respect of which an order permitting the clearance and loading thereof
for exportation has been made under section 51 by the proper officer], 3[or
being goods entered for export by post under section 82 and in respect of
which an order permitting clearance for exportation has been made by the
proper officer], a drawback should be allowed of duties of customs chargeable
under this Act on any imported materials of a class or description used in the
4[manufacture or processing of such goods or carrying out any operation on
such goods], the Central Government may, by notification in the Official
Gazette, direct that drawback shall be allowed in respect of such goods in
accordance with, and subject to, the rules made under sub-section (2):
5[Provided that no drawback shall be allowed under this sub-section in respect
of any of the aforesaid goods which the Central Government may, by rules made
under sub-section (2), specify, if the export value of such goods or class of
goods is less than the value of the imported materials used in the
4[manufacture or processing of such goods or carrying out any operation on
such goods] or class of goods, or is not more than such percentage of the
value of the imported materials used in the 4[manufacture or processing of
such goods or carrying out any operation on such goods] or class of goods as
the Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, specify
in this behalf: Provided further that where any drawback has been allowed on
any goods under this sub-section and the sale proceeds in respect of such
goods are not received by or on behalf of the exporter in India within the
time allowed under the 6[Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 (42 of 1999)],
such drawback shall be deemed never to have been allowed and the Central
Government may, by rules made under sub-section (2), specify the procedure for
the recovery or adjustment of the amount of such drawback]. 7[(1A) Where it
appears to the Central Government that the quantity of a particular material
imported into India is more than the total quantity of like material that has
been used in the goods 1[manufactured, processed or on which any operation has
been carried out in India] and exported outside India, then, the Central
Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, declare that so much
of the material as is contained in the goods exported shall, for the purpose
of sub-section (1), be deemed to be imported material.]
(2) The Central Government may make rules for the purpose of carrying out the
provisions of sub-section (1) and, in particular, such rules may provide—
8[(a) for the payment of drawback equal to the amount of duty actually paid on
the imported materials used in the manufacture or processing of the goods or
carrying out any operation on the goods or as is specified in the rules as the
average amount of duty paid on the materials of that class or description used
in the manufacture or processing of export goods or carrying out any operation
on export goods of that class or description either by manufacturers generally
or by persons processing or carrying on any operation generally or by any
particular manufacturer or particular person carrying on any process or other
operation, and interest, if any, payable thereon;] 9[(aa) for specifying the
goods in respect of which no drawback shall be allowed;
(ab) for specifying the procedure for recovery or adjustment of the amount of
any drawback which had been allowed under sub-section (1) 10[or interest
chargeable thereon];]
(b) for the production of such certificates, documents and other evidence in
support of each claim of drawback as may be necessary;
(c) for requiring the 11[manufacturer or the person carrying on any process or
other operation] to give access to every part of his manufactory to any
officer of customs specially authorised in this behalf by the 12[Assistant
Commissioner of Customs or Deputy Commissioner of Customs] to enable such
authorised officer to inspect the processes of 13[manufacture, process or any
other operation carried out] and to verify by actual check or otherwise the
statements made in support of the claim for drawback. 10[(d) for the manner
and the time within which the claim for payment of drawback may be filed;]
10[(3) The power to make rules conferred by sub-section (2) shall include the
power to give drawback with retrospective effect from a date not earlier than
the date of changes in the rates of duty on inputs used in the export goods.]
176 [75A. Interest on drawback.—
(1) Where any drawback payable to a claimant under section 74 or section 75 is
not paid within a 177 [period of 178 [one month]] from the date of filing a
claim for payment of such drawback, there shall be paid to that claimant in
addition to the amount of drawback, interest at the rate fixed under section
27A from the date after the expiry of the said 2[period of 3[one month]] till
the date of payment of such drawback: 179 [***]
180 [(2) Where any drawback has been paid to the claimant erroneously or it
becomes otherwise recoverable under this Act or the rules made thereunder, the
claimant shall, within a period of two months from the date of demand, pay in
addition to the said amount of drawback, interest at the rate fixed under
section 28AB and the amount of interest shall be calculated for the period
beginning from the date of payment of such drawback to the claimant till the
date of recovery of such drawback.]
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
76. Prohibition and regulation of drawback in certain cases.—
(1) Notwithstanding anything hereinbefore contained, no drawback shall be
allowed— 1[***]
(b) in respect of any goods the market-price of which is less than the amount
of drawback due thereon;
(c) where the drawback due in respect of any goods is less than 2[fifty
rupees].
(2) Without prejudice to the provisions of sub-section (1), if the Central
Government is of opinion that goods of any specified description in respect of
which drawback may be claimed under this Chapter are likely to be smuggled
back into India, it may, by notification in the Official Gazette, direct that
drawback shall not be allowed in respect of such goods or may be allowed
subject to such restrictions and conditions as may be specified in the
notification.
183 [ 76A Notification of special economic zone. —[ Repealed by the Finance
Act, 2007 (22 of 2007), sec. 99 (w.e.f. 11-5-2007). ]]
1[ 76B Application of provisions. —[ Repealed by the Finance Act, 2007 (22 of
2007), sec. 99 (w.e.f. 11-5-2007). ]]
CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
76C. Establishment and control.—[Repealed by the Finance Act, 2007 (22 of
2007), sec. 99 (w.e.f. 11-5-2007).] tc "76C. Establishment and
control.—[Repealed by the Finance Act, 2007 (22 of 2007), sec. 99 (w.e.f.
11-5-2007).]"
185 [ 76D Admission of goods. —[ Repealed by the the Finance Act, 2007 (22 of
2007), sec. 99 (w.e.f. 11-5-2007).]]
1[ 76E Exemption from duties of customs. —[ Repealed by the Finance Act, 2007
(22 of 2007), sec. 99 (w.e.f. 11-5-2007). ]]
187 [ 76F Levy of duties of customs. —[ Repealed by the Finance Act, 2007 (22
of 2007), sec. 99 (w.e.f. 11-5-2007). ]]
188 [ 76G Authorised operations. —[ Repealed by the Finance Act, 2007 (22 of
2007), sec. 99 (w.e.f. 11-5-2007). ]]
189 [ 76H Goods utilised within a special economic zone. —[ Repealed by the
Finance Act, 2007 (22 of 2007), sec. 99 (w.e.f. 11-5-2007). ]]
190 [ 76-I Drawback on goods admitted to a special economic zone. —[ Repealed
by the Finance Act, 2007 (22 of 2007), sec. 99 (w.e.f. 11-5-2007). ]]
191 [ 76J Duration of stay. —[ Repealed by the Finance Act, 2007 (22 of 2007),
sec. 99 (w.e.f. 11-5-2007). ]]
192 [ 76K Security. —[ Repealed by the Finance Act, 2007 (22 of 2007), sec. 99
(w.e.f. 11-5-2007). ]]
193 [ 76L Transfer of ownership. —[ Repealed by the Finance Act, 2007 (22 of
2007), sec. 99 (w.e.f. 11-5-2007). ]]
194 [ 76M Removal of goods. —[ Repealed by the Finance Act, 2007 (22 of 2007),
sec. 99 (w.e.f. 11-5-2007). ]]
195 [ 76N Closure of a special economic zone. —[ Repealed by the Finance Act,
2007 (22 of 2007), sec. 99 (w.e.f. 11-5-2007). ]]
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
77. Declaration by owner of baggage.—The owner of any baggage shall, for the purpose of clearing it, make a declaration of its contents to the proper officer.
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
78. Determination of rate of duty and tariff valuation in respect of baggage.—The rate of duty and tariff valuation, if any, applicable to baggage shall be the rate and valuation in force on the date on which a declaration is made in respect of such baggage under section 77.
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
79. Bona fide baggage exempted from duty.—
(1) The proper officer may, subject to any rules made under sub-section (2),
pass free of duty—
(a) any article in the baggage of a passenger or a member of the crew in
respect of which the said officer is satisfied that it has been in his use for
such minimum period as may be specified in the rules;
(b) any article in the baggage of a passenger in respect of which the said
officer is satisfied that it is for the use of the passenger or his family or
is a bona fide gift or souvenir; provided that the value of each such article
and the total value of all such articles does not exceed such limits as may be
specified in the rules.
(2) The Central Government may make rules for the purpose of carrying out the
provisions of this section and, in particular, such rules may specify—
(a) the minimum period for which any article has been used by a passenger or a
member of the crew for the purpose of clause (a) of sub-section (1);
(b) the maximum value of any individual article and the maximum total value of
all the articles which may be passed free of duty under clause (b) of sub-
section (1);
(c) the conditions (to be fulfilled before or after clearance) subject to
which any baggage may be passed free of duty.
(3) Different rules may be made under sub-section (2) for different classes of
persons.
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
80. Temporary detention of baggage.—Where the baggage of a passenger contains any article which is dutiable or the import of which is prohibited and in respect of which a true declaration has been made under section 77, the proper officer may, at the request of the passenger, detain such article for the purpose of being returned to him on his leaving India 1[and if for any reason, the passenger is not able to collect the article at the time of his leaving India, the article may be returned to him through any other passenger authorised by him and leaving India or as cargo consigned in his name].
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
81. Regulations in respect of baggage.—The Board may make regulations,—
(a) providing for the manner of declaring the contents of any baggage;
(b) providing for the custody, examination, assessment to duty and clearance
of baggage;
(c) providing for the transit or transhipment of baggage from one customs
station to another or to a place outside India.
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
82. Label or declaration accompanying goods to be treated as entry.—In the case of goods imported or exported by post, any label or declaration accompanying the goods, which contains the description, quantity and value thereof, shall be deemed to be an entry for import or export, as the case may be, for the purposes of this Act.
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
83. Rate of duty and tariff valuation in respect of goods imported or exported by post.—
(1) The rate of duty and tariff-value, if any, applicable to any goods
imported by post shall be the rate and valuation in force on the date on which
the postal authorities present to the proper officer a list containing the
particulars of such goods for the purpose of assessing the duty thereon:
Provided that if such goods are imported by a vessel and the list of the goods
containing the particulars was presented before the date of the arrival of the
vessel, it shall be deemed to have been presented on the date of such arrival.
(2) The rate of duty and tariff-value, if any, applicable to any goods
exported by post shall be the rate and valuation in force on the date on which
the exporter delivers such goods to the postal authorities for exportation.
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
84. Regulations regarding goods imported or to be exported by post.—The Board may make regulations providing for—
(a) the form and the manner in which an entry may be made in respect of any
specified class of goods imported or to be exported by post, other than goods
which are accompanied by a label or declaration containing the description,
quantity and value thereof;
(b) the examination, assessment to duty, and clearance of goods imported or to
be exported by post;
(c) the transit or transhipment of goods imported by post, from one customs
station to another or to a place outside India.
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
85. Stores may be allowed to be warehoused without assessment to duty.—Where any imported goods are entered for warehousing and the importer makes and subscribes to a declaration that the goods are to be supplied as stores to vessels or aircrafts without payment of import duty under this Chapter, the proper officer may permit the goods to be warehoused without the goods being assessed to duty.
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
86. Transit and transhipment of stores.—
(1) Any stores imported in a vessel or aircraft may, without payment of duty,
remain on board such vessel or aircraft while it is in India.
(2) Any stores imported in a vessel or aircraft may, with the permission of
the proper officer, be transferred to any vessel or aircraft as stores for
consumption therein as provided in section 87 or section 90.
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
87. Imported stores may be consumed on board a foreign-going vessel or aircraft.—Any imported stores on board a vessel or aircraft (other than stores to which section 90 applies) may, without payment of duty, be consumed thereon as stores during the period such vessel or aircraft is a foreign-going vessel or aircraft.
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
88. Application of section 69 and Chapter X to stores.—The provisions of section 69 and Chapter X shall apply to stores (other than those to which section 90 applies) as they apply to other goods, subject to the modifications that—
(a) for the words “exported to any place outside India” or the word
“exported”, wherever they occur1, the words “ taken on board any foreign-going
vessel or aircraft as stores” shall be substituted;
(b) in the case of drawback on fuel and lubricating oil taken on board any
foreign-going aircraft as stores, sub-section (1) of section 74 shall have
effect as if for the words “ninety-eight per cent.”, the words “the whole”
were substituted.
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
89. Stores to be free of export duty.—Goods produced or manufactured in India and required as stores on any foreign-going vessel or aircraft may be exported free of duty in such quantities as the proper officer may determine, having regard to the size of the vessel or aircraft, the number of passengers and crew and the length of the voyage or journey on which the vessel or aircraft is about to depart.
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
90. Concessions in respect of imported stores for the Navy.—
(1) Imported stores specified in sub-section (3) may without payment of duty
be consumed on board a ship of the Indian Navy.
(2) The provisions of section 69 and Chapter X shall apply to stores specified
in sub-section (3), as they apply to other goods, subject to the modifications
that—
(a) for the words “exported to any place outside India” or the word “exported”
wherever they occur1, the word “taken on board a ship of the Indian Navy”
shall be substituted;
(b) for the words “ninety-eight per cent.” in sub-section (1) of section 74,
the words “the whole” shall be substituted.
(3) The stores referred to in sub-sections (1) and (2) are the following:—
(a) stores for the use of ship of the Indian Navy;
(b) stores supplied free by the Government for the use of the crew of a ship
of the Indian Navy in accordance with their conditions of service.
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
91. Chapter not to apply to baggage and stores.—The provisions of this Chapter shall not apply to baggage and stores.
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
92. Entry of coastal goods.—
(1) The consignor of any coastal goods shall make an entry thereof by
presenting to the proper officer a bill of coastal goods in the prescribed
form.
(2) Every such consignor while presenting a bill of coastal goods shall, at
the foot thereof, make and subscribe to a declaration as to the truth of the
contents of such bill.
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
93. Coastal goods not to be loaded until bill relating thereto is passed, etc.—The master of a vessel shall not permit the loading of any coastal goods on the vessel until a bill relating to such goods presented under section 92 has been passed by the proper officer and has been delivered to the master by the consignor.
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
94. Clearance of coastal goods at destination.—
(1) The master of a vessel carrying any coastal goods shall carry on board the
vessel all bills relating to such goods delivered to him under section 93 and
shall, immediately on arrival of the vessel at any customs or coastal port,
deliver to the proper officer of that port all bills relating to the goods
which are to be unloaded at that port.
(2) Where any coastal goods are unloaded at any port, the proper officer shall
permit clearance thereto if he is satisfied that they are entered in a bill of
coastal goods delivered to him under sub-section (1).
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
95. Master of a coasting vessel to carry an advice book.—
(1) The master of every vessel carrying coastal goods shall be supplied by the
customs authorities with a book to be called the “advice book”.
(2) The proper officer at each port of call by such vessel shall make such
entries in the advice book as he deems fit, relating to the goods loaded on
the vessel at that port.
(3) The master of every such vessel shall carry the advice book on board the
vessel and shall on arrival at each port of call deliver it to the proper
officer at that port for his inspection.
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
96. Loading and unloading of coastal goods at customs port or coastal port only.—No coastal goods shall be loaded on, or unloaded from, any vessel at any port other than a custom port or a coastal port appointed under section 7 for the loading or unloading of such goods.
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
97. No coasting vessel to leave without written order.—
(1) The master of a vessel which has brought or loaded any coastal goods at a
customs or coastal port shall not cause or permit the vessel to depart from
such port until a written order to that effect has been given by the proper
officer.
(2) No such order shall be given until—
(a) the master of the vessel has answered the questions put to him under
section 38;
(b) all charges and penalties due in respect of that vessel or from the master
thereof have been paid or the payment secured by such guarantee or deposit of
such amount as the proper officer may direct;
(c) the master of the vessel has satisfied the proper officer that no penalty
is leviable on him under section 116 or the payment of any penalty that may be
levied upon him under that section has been secured by such guarantee or
deposit of such amount as the proper officer may direct;
(d) the provisions of this Chapter and any rules and regulations relating to
coastal goods and vessels carrying coastal goods have been complied with.
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
98. Application of certain provisions of this Act to coastal goods, etc.—
(1) Sections 33, 34 and 36 shall, so far as may be, apply to coastal goods as
they apply to imported goods or export goods.
(2) Sections 37 and 38 shall, so far as may be, apply to vessels carrying
coastal goods as they apply to vessels carrying imported goods or exported
goods.
(3) The Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette direct
that all or any of the other provisions of Chapter VI and the provisions of
section 45 shall apply to coastal goods or vessels carrying coastal goods
subject to such exceptions and modifications as may be specified in the
notification.
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
1[98A. Power to relax.—If the Central Government is satisfied that it is
necessary in the public interest so to do it may, by notification in the
Official Gazette, exempt generally, either absolutely or subject to such
conditions as may be specified in the notification, coastal goods or vessels
carrying coastal goods from all or any of the provisions of this Chapter.]
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
99. Power to make rules in respect of coastal goods and coasting vessels.—The Central Government may make rules for—
(a) preventing the taking out of India of any coastal goods the export of
which is dutiable or prohibited under this Act or any other law for the time
being in force;
(b) preventing in the case of a vessel carrying coastal goods as well as
imported or export goods, the substitution of imported or export goods by
coastal goods.
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
100. Power to search suspected persons entering or leaving India, etc.—
(1) If the proper officer has reason to believe that any person to whom this
section applies has secreted about his person, any goods liable to
confiscation or any documents relating thereto, he may search that person.
(2) This section applies to the following persons, namely:—
(a) any person who has landed from or is about to board or is on board any
vessel within the Indian customs waters;
(b) any person who has landed from or is about to board, or is on board a
foreign-going aircraft;
(c) any person who has got out of, or is about to get into, or is in, a
vehicle, which has arrived from, or is to proceed to any place outside India;
(d) any person not included in clause (a), (b) or (c) who has entered or is
about to leave India;
(e) any person in a customs area.
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
101. Power to search suspected persons in certain other cases.—
(1) Without prejudice to the provisions of section 100, if an officer of
customs empowered in this behalf by general or special order of the
1[Commissioner of the Customs], has reason to believe that any person has
secreted about his person any goods of the description specified in sub-
section (2) which are liable to confiscation, or documents relating thereto,
he may search that person.
(2) The goods referred to in sub-section (1) are the following:—
(a) gold;
(b) diamonds;
(c) manufactures of gold or diamonds;
(d) watches;
(e) any other class of goods which the Central Government may, by notification
in the Official Gazette, specify.
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
102. Persons to be searched may require to be taken before gazetted officer of customs or magistrate.—
(1) When any officer of customs is about to search any person under the
provisions of section 100 or section 101, the officer of the customs shall, if
such person so requires take him without unnecessary delay to the nearest
gazetted officer of customs or magistrate.
(2) If such requisition is made, the officer of customs may detain the person
making it until he can bring him before the gazetted officer of customs or the
magistrate.
(3) The gazetted officer of customs or the magistrate before whom any such
person is brought shall, if he sees no reasonable ground for search, forthwith
discharge the person but otherwise shall direct that search be made.
(4) Before making a search under the provisions of section 100 or section 101,
the officer of customs shall call upon two or more persons to attend and
witness the search and may issue an order in writing to them or any of them so
to do; and the search shall be made in the presence of such persons and a list
of all things seized in the course of such search shall be prepared by such
officer or other person and signed by such witnesses.
(5) No female shall be searched by any one excepting a female.
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
103. Power to screen or X-ray bodies of suspected persons for detecting secreted goods.—
(1) Where the proper officer has reason to believe that any person referred to
in sub-section (2) of section 100 has any goods liable to confiscation
secreted inside his body, he may detain such person and produce him without
unnecessary delay before the nearest magistrate.
(2) A magistrate before whom any person is brought under sub-section (1)
shall, if he sees no reasonable ground for believing that such person has any
such goods secreted inside his body, forthwith discharge such person.
(3) Where any such magistrate has reasonable ground for believing that such
person has any such goods secreted inside his body and the magistrate is
satisfied that for the purpose of discovering such goods it is necessary to
have the body of such person screened or X-rayed, he may make an order to that
effect.
(4) Where a magistrate has made any order under sub-section (3), in relation
to any person, the proper officer shall, as soon as practicable, take such
person before a radiologist possessing qualifications recognized by the
Central Government for the purpose of this section, and such person shall
allow the radiologist to screen or X-ray his body.
(5) A radiologist before whom any person is brought under sub-section (4)
shall, after screening or X-raying the body of such person, forward his
report, together with any X-ray pictures taken by him, to the magistrate
without unnecessary delay.
(6) Where on receipt of a report from a radiologist under sub-section (5) or
otherwise, the magistrate is satisfied that any person has any goods liable to
confiscation secreted inside his body, he may direct that suitable action for
bringing out such goods be taken on the advice and under the supervision of a
registered medical practitioner and such person shall be bound to comply with
such direction: Provided that in the case of a female no such action shall be
taken except on the advice and under the supervision of a female registered
medical practitioner.
(7) Where any person is brought before a magistrate under this section, such
magistrate may for the purpose of enforcing the provisions of this section
order such person to be kept in such custody and for such period as he may
direct.
(8) Nothing in this section shall apply to any person referred to in sub-
section (1), who admits that goods liable to confiscation are secreted inside
his body, and who voluntarily submits himself for suitable action being taken
for bringing out such goods. Explanation.—For the purpose of this section, the
expression “registered medical practitioner” means any person who holds a
qualification granted by an authority specified in the Schedule to the Indian
Medical Degrees Act, 1916 (7 of 1916), or notified under section 3 of that
Act, or by an authority specified in any of the Schedules to the Indian
Medical Council Act, 1956 (102 of 1956).
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
104. Power to arrest.—1[
(1) If an officer of customs empowered in this behalf by general or special
order of the Commissioner of Customs has reason to believe that any person in
India or within the Indian customs waters has committed an offence punishable
under section 132 or section 133 or section 135 or section 135A or section
136, he may arrest such person and shall, as soon as may be, inform him of the
grounds for such arrest.]
(2) Every person arrested under sub-section (1) shall, without unnecessary
delay, be taken to magistrate.
(3) Where an officer of customs has arrested any person under sub-section (1),
he shall, for the purpose of the releasing such person on bail or otherwise,
have the same power and be subject to the same provisions as the officer-in-
charge of a police station has and is subject to under the 2Code of Criminal
Procedure, 1898 (5 of 1898).
(4) Notwithstanding anything contained in the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898
(5 of 1898)2, an offence under this Act shall not be cognizable.
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
105. Power to search premises.—
(1) If the 1[Assistant Commissioner of Customs or Deputy Commissioner of
Customs], or in any area adjoining the land frontier of the coast of India an
officer of customs specially empowered by name in this behalf by the Board,
has reason to believe that any goods liable to confiscation, or any documents
or things which in his opinion will be useful for or relevant to any
proceeding under this Act, are secreted in any place, he may authorise any
officer of customs to search or may himself search for such goods, documents
or things.
(2) The provisions of the 2Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898 (5 of 1898),
relating to searches shall, so far as may be, apply to searches under this
section subject to the modification that sub-section (5) of section 165 of the
said Code shall have effect as if for the word “Magistrate”, where it occurs,
the words 3[“Commissioner of Customs”] were substituted.
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
106. Power to stop and search conveyances.—
(1) Where the proper officer has reason to believe that any aircraft, vehicle
or animal in India or any vessel in India or within the Indian customs waters
has been, is being, or is about to be; used in the smuggling of any goods or
in the carriage of any goods which have been smuggled, he may at any time stop
any such vehicle, animal or vessel or, in the case of an aircraft, compel it
to land, and—
(a) rummage and search any part of the aircraft, vehicle or vessel;
(b) examine and search any goods in the aircraft, vehicle or vessel or on the
animal;
(c) break open the lock of any door or package for exercising the powers
conferred by clauses (a) and (b), if the keys are withheld.
(2) Where for the purposes of sub-section (1)—
(a) it becomes necessary to stop any vessel or compel any aircraft to land, it
shall be lawful for any vessel or aircraft in the service of the Government
while flying her proper flag and any authority authorised in this behalf by
the Central Government to summon such vessel to stop or the aircraft to land,
by means of an international signal code or other recognized means, and
thereupon such vessel shall forthwith stop or such aircraft shall forthwith
land; and if it fails to do so, chase may be given thereto by any vessel or
aircraft as aforesaid and if after a gun is fired as a signal the vessel fails
to stop or the aircraft fails to land, it may be fired upon;
(b) it becomes necessary to stop any vehicle or animal, the proper officer may
use all lawful means for stopping it, and where such means fail, the vehicle
or animal may be fired upon.
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
1[106A. Power to inspect.—Any proper officer authorised in this behalf by the
2[Commissioner of Customs] may, for the purpose of ascertaining whether or not
the requirements of this Act have been complied with at any reasonable time,
enter any place intimated under Chapter IVA or Chapter IVB, as the case may
be, and inspect the goods kept or stored therein and require any person found
therein, who is for the time being in charge thereof, to produce to him for
his inspection the accounts maintained under the said Chapter IVA or Chapter
IVB, as the case may be, and to furnish to him such other information as he
may reasonably require for the purpose of ascertaining whether or not such
goods have been illegally imported, exported or are likely to be illegally
exported.]
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
107. Power to examine persons.—Any officer of customs empowered in this behalf by general or special order of the 1[Commissioner of Customs] may, during the course of any enquiry in connection with smuggling of any goods,—
(a) require any person to produce or deliver any document or thing relevant to
the enquiry;
(b) examine any person acquainted with the facts and circumstances of the
case.
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
108. Power to summon persons to give evidence and produce documents.—1[
(1) Any gazetted officer of customs duly empowered by the Central Government
in this behalf, shall have power to summon any person whose attendance he
considers necessary either to give evidence or to produce a document or any
other thing in any inquiry which such officer is making under this Act.]
(2) A summons to produce documents or other things may be for the production
of certain specified documents or things or for the production of all
documents or things of a certain description in the possession or under
control of the person summoned.
(3) All persons so summoned shall be bound to attend either in person or by an
authorised agent as such officer may direct; and all persons so summoned shall
be bound to state the truth upon any subject, respecting which they are
examined or make statements and produce such documents and other things as may
be required: Provided that the exemption under section 132 of the Code of
Civil Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908), shall be applicable to any requisition for
attendance under this section.
(4) Every such inquiry as aforesaid shall be deemed to be a judicial
proceeding within the meaning of section 193 and section 228 of the Indian
Penal Code (45 of 1860).
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
109. Power to require production of order permitting clearance of goods imported by land.—Any officer of customs appointed for any area adjoining the land frontier of India and empowered in this behalf by general or special order of the Board, may require any person in possession of any goods which such officer has reason to believe to have been imported into India by land, to produce the order made under section 47 permitting clearance of the goods: Provided that nothing in this section shall apply to any imported goods passing from a land frontier to a land customs station by a route appointed under clause (c) of section 7.
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
110. Seizure of goods, documents and things.—
(1) If the proper officer has reason to believe that any goods are liable to
confiscation under this Act, he may seize such goods: Provided that where it
is not practicable to seize any such goods, the proper officer may serve on
the owner of the goods an order that he shall not remove, part with, or
otherwise deal with the goods except with the previous permission of such
officer. 1[(1A) The Central Government may, having regard to the perishable or
hazardous nature of any goods, depreciation in the value of the goods with the
passage of time, constraints of storage space for the goods or any other
relevant considerations, by notification in the Official Gazette, specify the
goods or class of goods which shall, as soon as may be after its seizure under
sub-section (1), be disposed of by the proper officer in such manner as the
Central Government may, from time to time, determine after following the
procedure hereinafter specified.
(1B) Where any goods, being goods specified under sub-section (1A), have been
seized by a proper officer under sub-section (1), he shall prepare an
inventory of such goods containing such details relating to their description,
quality, quantity, mark, numbers, country of origin and other particulars as
the proper officer may consider relevant to the identity of the goods in any
proceeding under this Act and shall make an application to a Magistrate for
the purpose of—
(a) certifying the correctness of the inventory so prepared; or
(b) taking, in the presence of the Magistrate, photographs of such goods, and
certifying such photographs as true; or
(c) allowing to draw representative samples of such goods, in the presence of
the Magistrate, and certifying the correctness of any list of samples so
drawn.
(1C) Where an application is made under sub-section (1B), the Magistrate
shall, as soon as may be, allow the application.]
(2) Where any goods are seized under sub-section (1) and no notice in respect
thereof is given under clause (a) of section 124 within six months of the
seizure of the goods, the goods shall be returned to the person from whose
possession they were seized: Provided that the aforesaid period of six months
may, on sufficient cause being shown, be extended by the 2[Commissioner of
Customs] for a period not exceeding six months.
(3) The proper officer may seize any documents or things which, in his
opinion, will be useful for, or relevant to, any proceeding under this Act.
(4) The person from whose custody any documents are seized under sub-section
(3) shall be entitled to make copies thereof or take extract therefrom in the
presence of a officer of customs.
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
1[110A. Provisional release of goods, documents and things seized pending
adjudication.—Any goods, documents or things seized under section 110, may,
pending the order of the adjudicating officer, be released to the owner on
taking a bond from him in the proper form with such security and conditions as
the Commissioner of Customs may require.]
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
111. Confiscation of improperly imported goods, etc.—The following goods brought from a place outside India shall be liable to confiscation:—
(a) any goods imported by sea or air which are unloaded or attempted to be
unloaded at any place other than a customs port or customs airport appointed
under clause (a) of section 7 for the unloading of such goods;
(b) any goods imported by land or inland water through any route other than a
route specified in a notification issued under clause (c) of section 7 for the
import of such goods;
(c) any dutiable or prohibited goods brought into any bay, gulf, creek or
tidal river for the purpose of being landed at a place other than a customs
port;
(d) any goods which are imported or attempted to be imported or are brought
within the Indian customs waters for the purpose of being imported, contrary
to any prohibition imposed by or under this Act or any other law for the time
being in force;
(e) any dutiable or prohibited goods found concealed in any manner in any
conveyance;
(f) any dutiable or prohibited goods required to be mentioned under the
regulations in an import manifest or import report which are not so mentioned;
(g) any dutiable or prohibited goods which are unloaded form a conveyance in
contravention of the provisions of section 32, other than goods inadvertently
unloaded but included in the record kept under sub-section (2) of section 45;
(h) any dutiable or prohibited goods unloaded or attempted to be unloaded in
contravention of the provisions of section 33 or section 34;
(i) any dutiable or prohibited goods found concealed in any manner in any
package either before or after the unloading thereof;
(j) any dutiable or prohibited goods removed or attempted to be removed from a
customs area or a warehouse without the permission of the proper officer or
contrary to the terms of such permission;
(k) any dutiable or prohibited goods imported by land in respect of which the
order permitting clearance of the goods required to be produced under section
109 is not produced or which do not correspond in any material particular with
the specification contained therein;
(l) any dutiable or prohibited goods which are not included or are in excess
of those included in the entry made under this Act, or in the case of baggage
in the declaration made under section 77;
(m) 1[any goods which do not correspond in respect of value or in any other
particular] with the entry made under this Act or in the case of baggage with
the declaration made under section 77 2[in respect thereof or in the case of
goods under transhipment, with the declaration for transhipment referred to in
the proviso to sub-section (1) of section 54];
(n) any dutiable or prohibited goods transisted with or without transhipment
or attempted to be so transited in contravention of the provisions of Chapter
VIII;
(o) any goods exempted, subject to any condition, from duty or any prohibition
in respect of the import thereof under this Act or any other law for the time
being in force, in respect of which the condition is not observed unless the
non-observance of the condition was sanctioned by the proper officer; 3[(p)
any notified goods in relation to which any provisions of Chapter IVA or of
any rule made under this Act for carrying out the purposes of that Chapter
have been contravened.]
112 Penalty for improper importation of goods, etc. —Any person,—
(a) who, in relation to any goods, does or omits to do any act which act or
omission would render such goods liable to confiscation under section 111, or
abets the doing or omission of such an act, or
(b) who acquires possession of or is in any way concerned in carrying,
removing, depositing, harbouring, keeping, concealing, selling or purchasing,
or in any other manner dealing with any goods which he knows or has reason to
believe are liable to confiscation under section 111, shall be liable,—
(i) in the case of goods in respect of which any prohibition is in force under
this Act or any other law for the time being in force, to a penalty 216 [not
exceeding the value of the goods or five thousand rupees], whichever is the
greater;
(ii) in the case of dutiable goods, other than prohibited goods, to a penalty
217 [not exceeding the duty sought to be evaded on such goods or five thousand
rupees], whichever is the greater;
218 [(iii) in the case of goods in respect of which the value stated in the
entry made under this Act or in the case of baggage, in the declaration made
under section 77 (in either case hereafter in this section referred to as the
declared value) is higher than the value thereof, to a penalty 219 [not
exceeding the difference between the declared value and the value thereof or
five thousand rupees], whichever is the greater;]
218 [(iv) in the case of goods falling both under clauses (i) and (iii), to a
penalty 220 [not exceeding the value of the goods or the difference between
the declared value and the value thereof or five thousand rupees], whichever
is the highest;]
218 [(v) in the case of goods falling both under clauses (ii) and (iii), to a
penalty 221 [not exceeding the duty sought to be evaded on such goods or the
difference between the declared value and the value thereof or five thousand
rupees], whichever is the highest.]
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
113. Confiscation of goods attempted to be improperly exported, etc.—The following export goods shall be liable to confiscation:—
(a) any goods attempted to be exported by sea or air from any place other than
a customs port or a customs airport appointed for the loading of such goods;
(b) any goods attempted or to be exported by land or inland water through any
route other than a route specified in a notification issued under clause (c)
of section 7 for the export of such goods;
(c) any 1[***] goods brought near land frontier or the coast of India or near
any bay, gulf, creek or tidal river for the purpose of being exported from a
place other than a land customs station or a customs port appointed for the
loading of such goods;
(d) any goods attempted to be exported or brought within the limits of any
customs area for the purpose of being exported, contrary to any prohibition
imposed by or under this Act or any other law for the time being in force;
(e) any 2[***] goods found concealed in a package which is brought with the
limits of a customs area for the purpose of exportation;
(f) any 2[***] goods which are loaded or attempted to be loaded in
contravention of the provisions of section 33 or section 34;
(g) any 2[***] goods loaded or attempted to be loaded on any conveyance, or
water-borne, or attempted to be water-borne for being loaded on any vessel,
the eventual destination of which is a place outside India, without the
permission of the proper officer;
(h) any 2[***] goods which are not included or are in excess of those included
in the entry made under this Act, or in the case of baggage in the declaration
made under section 77. 3[(i) any goods entered for exportation which do not
correspond in respect of value or in any material particular with the entry
made under this Act or in the case of baggage with the declaration made under
section 77;] 4[(ii) any goods entered for exportation under a claim for
drawback which do not correspond in any material particular with any
information furnished by the exporter or manufacturer under this Act in
relation to the fixation of rate of drawback under section 75;]
(j) any goods on which import duty has not been paid and which are entered for
exportation under a claim for drawback under section 74;
(k) any goods cleared for exportation 5[***] which are not loaded for
exportation on account of any wilful act, negligence or default of the
exporter; his agent or employee, or which after having been loaded for
exportation are unloaded without the permission of the proper officer; 6[(l)
any specified goods in relation to which any provisions of Chapter IVB or of
any rule made under this Act for carrying out the purposes of that Chapter
have been contravened.]
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
114. Penalty for attempt to export goods improperly, etc.—Any person who, in relation to any goods, does or omits to do any act which act or omission would render such goods liable to confiscation under section 113, or abets the doing or omission of such an act, shall be liable,—
(i) in the case of goods in respect of which any prohibition is in force under
this Act or any other law for the time being in force, to a penalty 1[2[not
exceeding three times the value of the goods as declared by the exporter or
the value as determined under this Act]], whichever is the greater;
(ii) in the case of dutiable goods, other than prohibited goods, to a penalty
3[not exceeding the duty sought to be evaded or five thousand rupees],
whichever is the greater; 4[(iii) in the case of any other goods, to a penalty
not exceeding the value of the goods, as declared by the exporter or the value
as determined under this Act, whichever is the greater.]
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
1[114A. Penalty for short-levy or non-levy of duty in certain cases.—Where the
duty has not been levied or has not been short-levied or the interest has not
been charged or paid or has been part paid or the duty or interest has been
erroneously refunded by reason of collusion or any wilful mis-statement or
suppression of facts, the person who is liable to pay the duty or interest, as
the case may be, as determined under sub-section (2) of section 28 shall, also
be liable to pay a penalty equal to the duty or interest so determined:]
2[Provided that where such duty or interest, as the case may be, as determined
under sub-section (2) of section 28, and the interest payable thereon under
section 28AB, is paid within thirty days from the date of the communication of
the order of the proper officer determining such duty, the amount of penalty
liable to be paid by such person under this section shall be twenty-five per
cent. of the duty or interest, as the case may be, so determined: Provided
further that the benefit of reduced penalty under the first proviso shall be
available subject to the condition that the amount of penalty so determined
has also been paid within the period of thirty days referred to in that
proviso: Provided also that where the duty or interest determined to be
payable is reduced or increased by the Commissioner (Appeals), the Appellate
Tribunal or, as the case may be, the court, then, for the purposes of this
section, the duty or interest as reduced or increased, as the case may be,
shall be taken into account: Provided also that where the duty or interest
determined to be payable is increased by the Commissioner (Appeals), the
Appellate Tribunal or, as the case may be, the court, then, the benefit of
reduced penalty under the first proviso shall be available if the amount of
the duty or the interest so increased, along with the interest payable thereon
under section 28AB, and twenty-five per cent. of the consequential increase in
penalty have also been paid within thirty days of the communication of the
order by which such increase in the duty or interest takes effect: Provided
also that where any penalty has been levied under this section, no penalty
shall be levied under section 112 or section 114. Explanation.—For the removal
of doubts, it is hereby declared that—
(i) the provisions of this section shall also apply to cases in which the
order determining the duty or interest under sub-section (2) of section 28
relates to notices issued prior to the date on which the Finance Act, 2000
receives the assent of the President*;
(ii) any amount paid to the credit of the Central Government prior to the date
of communication of the order referred to in the first proviso or the fourth
proviso shall be adjusted against the total amount due from such person.]
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
1[114AA. Penalty for use of false and incorrect material.—If a person
knowingly or intentionally makes, signs or uses, or causes to be made, signed
or used, any declaration, statement or document which is false or incorrect in
any material particular, in the transaction of any business for the purposes
of this Act, shall be liable to a penalty not exceeding five times the value
of goods.]
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
115. Confiscation of conveyances.—
(1) The following conveyances shall be liable to confiscation:—
(a) any vessel which is or has been within the Indian customs water, any
aircraft which is or has been in India, or any vehicle which is or has been in
a customs area, while constructed, adapted, altered or fitted in any manner
for the purpose of concealing goods;
(b) any conveyance from which the whole or any part of the goods is thrown
overboard, staved or destroyed so as to prevent seizure by an officer of
customs;
(c) any conveyance which having been required to stop or land under section
106 fails to do so, except for the good and sufficient cause;
(d) any conveyance from which any warehoused goods cleared for exportation, or
any other goods cleared for exportation under a claim for drawback, are
unloaded, without the permission of the proper officer;
(e) any conveyance carrying imported goods which has entered India and is
afterwards found with the whole or substantial portion of such goods missing,
unless the master of the vessel or aircraft is able to account for the loss
of, or deficiency in, the goods.
(2) Any conveyance or animal used as a means of transport in the smuggling of
any goods or in the carriage of any smuggled goods shall be liable to
confiscation, unless the owner of the conveyance or animal proves that it was
so used without the knowledge or connivance of the owner himself, his agent,
if any, and the person in charge of the conveyance or animal 1[***]: Provided
that where any such conveyance is used for the carriage of goods or passengers
for hire, the owner of any conveyance shall be given an option to pay in lieu
of the confiscation of the conveyance a fine not exceeding the market- price
of the goods which are sought to be smuggled or the smuggled goods, as the
case may be. Explanation.—In this section, “market price” means market price
at the date when the goods are seized.
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
116. Penalty for not accounting for goods.—If any goods loaded in a conveyance for importation into India, or any goods transhipped under the provisions of this Act or coastal goods carried in a conveyance, are not unloaded at their place of destination in India, or if the quantity unloaded is short of the quantity to be unloaded at that destination, and if the failure to unload or the deficiency is not accounted for to the satisfaction of the 1[Assistant Commissioner of Customs or Deputy Commissioner of Customs], the person-in-charge of the conveyance shall be liable,—
(a) in the case of goods loaded in a conveyance for importation into India or
goods transhipped under the provisions of this Act, to a penalty not exceeding
twice the amount of duty that would have been chargeable on the goods not
unloaded or the deficient goods, as the case may be, had such goods been
imported;
(b) in the case of coastal goods, to a penalty not exceeding twice the amount
of export duty that would have been chargeable on the goods not unloaded or
the deficient goods, as the case may be, had such goods been exported.
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
117. Penalties for contravention, etc., not expressly mentioned.—Any person who contravenes any provision of this Act or abets any such contravention or who fails to comply with any provision of this Act with which it was his duty to comply, where no express penalty is elsewhere provided for such contravention or failure, shall be liable to a penalty not exceeding 2[ten thousand rupees].
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
118. Confiscation of packages and their contents.—
(a) Where any goods imported in a package are liable to confiscation, the
package and any other goods imported in that package shall also be liable to
confiscation.
(b) Where any goods are brought in a package within the limits of a customs
area for the purpose of exportation and are liable to confiscation, the
package and any other goods contained therein shall also be liable to
confiscation.
119 Confiscation of goods used for concealing smuggled goods. —Any goods used
for concealing smuggled goods shall also be liable to confiscation.
Explanation.— In this section, “goods” does not include a conveyance used as a
means of transport.
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
120. Confiscation of smuggled goods notwithstanding any change in form, etc.—
(1) Smuggled goods may be confiscated notwithstanding any change in their
form.
(2) Where smuggled goods are mixed with other goods in such manner that the
smuggled goods cannot be separated from such other goods, the whole of the
goods shall be liable to confiscation: Provided that where the owner of such
goods proves that he had no knowledge or reason to believe that they included
any smuggled goods, only such part of the goods the value of which is equal to
the values of the smuggled goods shall be liable to confiscation.
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
121. Confiscation of sale-proceeds of smuggled goods.—Where any smuggled goods are sold by a person having knowledge or reason to believe that the goods are smuggled goods, the sale-proceeds thereof shall be liable to confiscation.
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
122. Adjudication of confiscations and penalties.—In every case under this Chapter in which anything is liable to confiscation or any person is liable to a penalty, such confiscation or penalty may be adjudged,—
(a) without limit, by a 1[Commissioner of Customs] or a 2[Deputy Commissioner
of Customs]; 3[(b) where the value of goods liable to confiscation does not
exceed 4[two lakh] rupees, by an 2[Assistant Commissioner of Customs or Deputy
Commissioner of Customs];] 5[(c) where the value of the goods liable to
confiscation does not exceed 6[ten thousand] rupees, by a gazetted officer of
customs lower in rank than an 2[Assistant Commissioner of Customs or Deputy
Commissioner of Customs].]
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
1[122A. Adjudication procedure.—
(1) The adjudicating authority shall, in any proceeding under this Chapter or
any other provision of this Act, give an opportunity of being heard to a party
in a proceeding, if the party so desires.
(2) The adjudicating authority may, if sufficient cause is shown, at any stage
of proceeding referred to in sub-section (1), grant time, from time to time,
to the parties or any of them and adjourn the hearing for reasons to be
recorded in writing: Provided that no such adjournment shall be granted more
than three times to a party during the proceeding.]
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
123. Burden of proof in certain cases.—1[
(1) Where any goods to which this section applies are seized under this Act in
the reasonable belief that they are smuggled goods, the burden of proving that
they are not smuggled goods shall be—
(a) in a case where such seizure is made from the possession of any person,—
(i) on the person from whose possession the goods were seized; and
(ii) if any person, other than the person from whose possession the goods were
seized, claims to be the owner thereof, also on such other person;
(b) in any other case, on the person, if any, who claims to be the owner of
the goods so seized.]
(2) This section shall apply to gold 2[and manufactures thereof] watches, and
any other class of goods which the Central Government may by notification in
the Official Gazette, specify.
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
124. Issue of show cause notice before confiscation of goods, etc.—No order confiscating any goods or imposing any penalty on any person shall be made under this Chapter unless the owner of the goods or such person—
(a) is given a notice in 1[writing with the prior approval of the officer of
customs not below the rank of a Deputy Commissioner of Customs, informing] him
of the grounds on which it is proposed to confiscate the goods or to impose a
penalty;
(b) is given an opportunity of making a representation in writing within such
reasonable time as may be specified in the notice against the grounds of
confiscation or imposition of penalty mentioned therein; and
(c) is given a reasonable opportunity of being heard in the matter: Provided
that the notice referred to in clause (a) and the representation referred to
in clause (b) may at the request of the person concerned be oral.
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
125. Option to pay fine in lieu of confiscation.—
(1) Whenever confiscation of any goods is authorised by this Act, the officer
adjudging it may, in the case of any goods, the importation or exportation
whereof is prohibited under this Act or under any other law for the time being
in force, and shall, in the case of any other goods, give to the owner of the
goods 1[or, where such owner is not known, the person from whose possession or
custody such goods have been seized,] an option to pay in lieu of confiscation
such fine as the said officer thinks fit: Provided that, without prejudice to
the provisions of the proviso to sub-section (2) of section 115, such fine
shall not exceed the market price of the goods confiscated, less in the case
of imported goods the duty chargeable thereon. 2[(2) Where any fine in lieu of
confiscation of goods is imposed under sub-section (1) the owner of such goods
or the person referred to in sub-section (1) shall, in addition, be liable to
any duty and charges payable in respect of such goods.]
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
126. On confiscation, property to vest in Central Government.—
(1) When any goods are confiscated under this Act, such goods shall thereupon
vest in the Central Government.
(2) The officer adjudging confiscation shall take and hold possession of the
confiscated goods.
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
127. Award of confiscation or penalty by customs officers not to interfere with other punishments.—The award of any confiscation or penalty under this Act by an officer of customs shall not prevent the infliction of any punishment to which the person affected thereby is liable under the provisions of Chapter XVI of this Act or under any other law.
250 [127A. Definitions.—In this Chapter, unless the context otherwise
requires,—
(a) “Bench” means a Bench of the Settlement Commission;
251 [(b) “case” means any proceeding under this Act or any other Act for the
levy, assessment and collection of customs duty, pending before an
adjudicating authority on the date on which an application under sub-section
(1) of section 127B is made: Provided that when any proceeding is referred
back in any appeal or revision, as the case may be, by any court, Appellate
Tribunal or any other authority, to the adjudicating authority for a fresh
adjudication or decision, as the case may be, then such proceeding shall not
be deemed to be a proceeding pending within the meaning of this clause;] tc"
Provided that when any proceeding is referred back in any appeal or revision,
as the case may be, by any court, Appellate Tribunal or any other authority,
to the adjudicating authority for a fresh adjudication or decision, as the
case may be, then such proceeding shall not be deemed to be a proceeding
pending within the meaning of this clause;]"
(c) “Chairman” means of the Chairman of the Settlement Commission;
(d) “Commissioner (Investigation)” means an officer of the customs or a
Central Excise Officer appointed as such Commissioner to conduct inquiry or
investigation for the purpose of this Chapter;
(e) “Member” means a Member of the Settlement Commission and includes the
Chairman and the Vice-Chairman;
(f) “Settlement Commission” means the Customs and Central Excise Settlement
Commission constituted under section 32 of the Central Excise Act, 1944 (1 of
1944); and
(g) “Vice-Chairman” means a Vice-Chairman of the Settlement Commission.]
252 [ 127B Application for settlement of cases. — 253 [
(1) Any importer, exporter or any other person (hereinafter referred to as the
applicant in this Chapter) may, in respect of a case, relating to him make an
application, before adjudication to the Settlement Commission to have the case
settled, in such form and in such manner as may be specified by rules, and
containing a full and true disclosure of his duty liability which has not been
disclosed before the proper officer, the manner in which such liability has
been incurred, the additional amount of customs duty accepted to be payable by
him and such other particulars as may be specified by rules including the
particulars of such dutiable goods in respect of which he admits short levy on
account of misclassification, under-valuation or inapplicability of exemption
notification 254 [or otherwise] and such application shall be disposed of in
the manner hereinafter provided: Provided that no such application shall be
made unless,—
(a) the applicant has filed a bill of entry, or a shipping bill, in respect of
import or export of such goods, as the case may be, and in relation to such
bill of entry or shipping bill, a show cause notice has been issued to him by
the proper officer;
(b) the additional amount of duty accepted by the applicant in his application
exceeds three lakh rupees; and
(c) the applicant has paid the additional amount of customs duty accepted by
him along with interest due under section 28AB:
Provided further that no application shall be entertained by the Settlement
Commission under this sub-section in cases which are pending in the Appellate
Tribunal or any court: Provided also that no application under this sub-
section shall be made in relation to goods to which section 123 applies or to
goods in relation to which any offence under the Narcotic Drugs and
Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985 (61 of 1985) has been committed: Provided
also that no application under this sub-section shall be made for the
interpretation of the classification of the goods under the Customs Tariff
Act, 1975 (51 of 1975).
(1A) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1), where an
application was made under sub-section (1) before the 1st day of June, 2007
but an order under sub section (1) of section 127C has not been made before
the said date, the applicant shall within a period of thirty days from the 1st
day of June, 2007 pay the accepted duty liability failing which his
application shall be liable to be rejected.]
(2) Where any dutiable goods, books of account, other documents or any sale
proceeds of the goods have been seized under section 110, the applicant shall
not be entitled to make an application under sub-section (1) before the expiry
of one hundred and eighty days from the date of the seizure.
(3) Every application made under sub-section (1) shall be accompanied by such
fees as may be specified by rules.
(4) An application made under sub-section (1) shall not be allowed to be
withdrawn by the applicant. “(1) Any importer, exporter or any other person
(hereinafter in this Chapter referred to as the applicant) may, at any stage
of a case relating to him, make an application in such form and in such manner
as may be specified by rules, and containing a full and true disclosure of his
duty liability which has not been disclosed before the proper officer, the
manner in which such liability has been incurred, the additional amount of
customs duty accepted to be payable by him and such other particulars as may
be specified by rules including the particulars of such dutiable goods in
respect of which he admits short levy on account of misclassification or
otherwise of goods, to the Settlement Commission to have the case settled and
such application shall be disposed of in the manner hereinafter provided:
Provided that no such application shall be made unless—
(a) the applicant has filed a bill of entry, or a shipping bill, in respect of
import or export of goods, as the case may be, and in relation to such bill of
entry or shipping bill or a show cause notice has been issued to him by the
proper officer;
(b) the additional amount of duty accepted by the applicant in his application
exceeds two lakh rupees: Provided further that no application shall be
entertained by the Settlement Commission under this sub-section in cases which
are pending in the Appellate Tribunal or any court: Provided also that no
application under this sub-section shall be made in relation to goods to which
section 123 applies or to goods in relation to which any offence under the
Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985 (61 of 1985), has been
committed: Provided also that no application under this sub-section shall be
made for the interpretation of the classification of the goods under the
Customs Tariff Act, 1975 (51 of 1975).”.
255 [ 256 [ 127C Procedure on receipt of an application under section 127B. —
(1) On receipt of an application under section 127B, the Settlement Commission
shall, within seven days from the date of receipt of the application, issue a
notice to the applicant to explain in writing as to why the application made
by him should be allowed to be proceeded with and after taking into
consideration the explanation provided by the applicant, the Settlement
Commission, shall, within a period of fourteen days from the date of the
notice, by an order, allow the application to be proceeded with or reject the
application, as the case may be, and the proceedings before the Settlement
Commission shall abate on the date of rejection: Provided that where no notice
has been issued or no order has been passed within the aforesaid period by the
Settlement Commission, the application shall be deemed to have been allowed to
be proceeded with.
(2) A copy of every order under sub-section (1) shall be sent to the applicant
and to the Commissioner of Customs having jurisdiction.
(3) Where an application is allowed or deemed to have been allowed to be
proceeded with under sub-section (1), the Settlement Commission shall, within
seven days from the date of order under sub-section (1), call for a report
along with the relevant records from the Commissioner of Customs having
jurisdiction and the Commissioner shall furnish the report within a period of
thirty days of the receipt of communication from the Settlement Commission:
Provided that where the Commissioner does not furnish the report within the
aforesaid period of thirty days, the Settlement Commission shall proceed
further in the matter without the report of the Commissioner.
(4) Where a report of the Commissioner called for under sub-section (3) has
been furnished within the period specified in that sub-section, the Settlement
Commission may, after examination of such report, if it is of the opinion that
any further enquiry or investigation in the matter is necessary direct, for
reasons to be recorded in writing, the Commissioner (Investigation) within
fifteen days of the receipt of the report, to make or cause to be made such
further enquiry or investigation and furnish a report within a period of
ninety days of the receipt of the communication from the Settlement
Commission, on the matters covered by the application and any other matter
relating to the case: Provided that where the Commissioner (Investigation)
does not furnish the report within the aforesaid period, the Settlement
Commission shall proceed to pass an order under sub-section (5) without such
report.
(5) After examination of the records and the report of the Commissioner of
Customs received under sub-section (3), and the report, if any, of the
Commissioner (Investigation) of the Settlement Commission under sub-section
(4), and after giving an opportunity to the applicant and to the Commissioner
of Customs having jurisdiction to be heard, either in person or through a
representative duly authorised in this behalf, and after examining such
further evidence as may be placed before it or obtained by it, the Settlement
Commission may, in accordance with the provisions of this Act, pass such order
as it thinks fit on the matters covered by the application and any other
matter relating to the case not covered by the application, but referred to in
the report of the Commissioner of Customs and Commissioner (Investigation)
under sub-section (3) or sub-section (4).
(6) An order under sub-section (5) shall not be passed in respect of an
application filed on or before the 31st day of May, 2007, later than the 29th
February, 2008 and in respect of an application made on or after the 1st day
of June, 2007, after nine months from the last day of the month in which the
application was made, failing which the settlement proceedings shall abate,
and the adjudicating authority before whom the proceeding at the time of
making the application was pending, shall dispose of the case in accordance
with the provisions of this Act as if no application under section 127B had
been made: 257 [Provided that the period specified under this sub-section may,
for reasons to be recorded in writing, be extended by the Settlement
Commission for a further period not exceeding three months.]
(7) Subject to the provisions of section 32A of the Central Excise Act, 1944
(1 of 1944), the materials brought on record before the Settlement Commission
shall be considered by the Members of the concerned Bench before passing any
order under sub-section (5) and, in relation to the passing of such order, the
provisions of section 32D of the Central Excise Act, 1944(1 of 1944) shall
apply.
(8) The order passed under sub-section (5) shall provide for the terms of
settlement including any demand by way of duty, penalty or interest, the
manner in which any sums due under the settlement shall be paid and all other
matters to make the settlement effective and in case of rejection contain the
reasons therefor and it shall also provide that the settlement shall be void
if it is subsequently found by the Settlement Commission that it has been
obtained by fraud, or misrepresentation of facts: Provided that the amount of
settlement ordered by the Settlement Commission, shall not be less than the
duty liability admitted by the applicant under section 127B.
(9) Where any duty, interest, fine and penalty payable in pursuance of an
order under sub-section (5) is not paid by the applicant within thirty days of
receipt of a copy of the order by him, the amount which remains unpaid, shall
be recovered along with interest due thereon, as the sums due to the Central
Government by the proper officer having jurisdiction over the applicant in
accordance with the provisions of section 142.
(10) Where a settlement becomes void as provided under sub-section (8), the
proceedings with respect to the matters covered by the settlement shall be
deemed to have been revived from the stage at which the application was
allowed to be proceeded with by the Settlement Commission and the proper
officer having jurisdiction may, notwithstanding anything contained in any
other provision of this Act, complete such proceedings at any time before the
expiry of two years from the date of the receipt of communication that the
settlement became void.]]
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
*127D. Power of Settlement Commission to order provisional attachment to protect revenue.—
(1) Where, during the pendency of any proceeding before it, the Settlement
Commission is of the opinion that for the purpose of protecting the interests
of the revenue it is necessary so to do, it may, by order, attach
provisionally any property belonging to the applicant in such manner as may be
specified by rules.
(2) Every provisional attachment made by the Settlement Commission under sub-
section (1) shall cease to have effect from the date the sums due to the
Central Government for which such attachment is made are discharged by the
applicant and evidence to that effect is submitted to the Settlement
Commission.
258 [127E. Power of Settlement Commission to reopen completed proceedings.—If
the Settlement Commission is of the opinion (the reasons for such opinion to
be recorded by it in writing) that, for the proper disposal of the case
pending before it, it is necessary or expedient to reopen any proceeding
connected with the case but which has been completed under this Act before
application for settlement under section 127B was made, it may, with the
concurrence of the applicant, reopen such proceeding and pass such order
thereon as it thinks fit, as if the case in relation to which the application
for settlement had been made by the applicant under that section covered such
proceeding also: Provided that no proceeding shall be reopened by the
Settlement Commission under this section after the expiry of five years from
the date of application under sub-section
(1) of section 127B: [Provided further that no proceeding shall be reopened by
the Settlement Commission under this section in a case where an application
under section 127B is made on or after the 1st day of June, 2007.]]
260 [127F. Power and procedure of Settlement Commission.—
(1) In addition to the powers conferred on the Settlement Commission under
Chapter V of the Central Excise Act, 1944 (1 of 1944), it shall have all the
powers which are vested in an officer of the customs under this Act or the
rules made thereunder.
(2) Where an application made under section 127B has been allowed to be
proceeded with under section 127C, the Settlement Commission shall, until an
order is passed under sub-section 261 [(5)] of section 127C, have, subject to
the provisions of sub-section 262 [(4)] of that section, exclusive
jurisdiction to exercise the powers and perform the functions of any officer
of customs or Central Excise Officer, as the case may be, under this Act or in
the Central Excise Act, 1944 (1 of 1944), as the case may be, in relation to
the case.
(3) In the absence of any express direction by the Settlement Commission to
the contrary, nothing in this Chapter shall affect the operation of the
provisions of this Act in so far as they relate to any matter other than those
before the Settlement Commission.
(4) The Settlement Commission shall, subject to the provisions of Chapter V of
the Central Excise Act, 1944 (1 of 1944) and this Chapter, have power to
regulate its own procedure and the procedure of Benches thereof in all matters
arising out of the exercise of its powers, or of the discharge of its
functions, including the places at which the Benches shall hold their
sittings.]
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
*127G. Inspection, etc., of reports.—No person shall be entitled to inspect, or obtain copies of, any report made by any officer of the Customs to the Settlement Commission; but the Settlement Commission may, in its discretion, furnish copies thereof to any such person on an application made to it in this behalf and on payment of such fee as may be specified by rules: Provided that, for the purpose of enabling any person whose case is under consideration to rebut any evidence brought on record against him in any such report, the Settlement Commission shall, on an application made in this behalf, and on payment by such person of such fee as may be specified by rules, furnish him with a certified copy of any such report or part thereof relevant for the purpose.
263 [127H. Power of Settlement Commission to grant immunity from prosecution
and penalty.—
(1) The Settlement Commission may, if it is satisfied that any person who made
the application for settlement under section 127B has co-operated with the
Settlement Commission in the proceedings before it and has made a full and
true disclosure of his duty liability, grant to such person, subject to such
conditions as it may think fit to impose, immunity from prosecution for any
offence under this Act 264 [and also either wholly or in part from the
imposition of any penalty and fine] under this Act, with respect to the case
covered by the settlement: Provided that no such immunity shall be granted by
the Settlement Commission in cases where the proceedings for the prosecution
for any such offence have been instituted before the date of receipt of the
application under section 127B. 265 [Explanation.—For the removal of doubts,
it is hereby declared that the application filed before the Settlement
Commission on or before the 31st day of May, 2007 shall be disposed of as if
the amendment in this section had not come into force.]
(2) An immunity granted to a person under sub-section (1) shall stand
withdrawn if such person fails to pay any sum specified in the order of the
settlement passed under 266 [sub-section (5) of section 127C within the time
specified in such order], or fails to comply with any other condition subject
to which the immunity was granted and thereupon the provisions of this Act
shall apply as if such immunity had not been granted.
(3) An immunity granted to a person under sub-section (1) may, at any time, be
withdrawn by the Settlement Commission, if it is satisfied that such person
had, in the course of the settlement proceedings, concealed any particulars,
material to the settlement or had given false evidence, and thereupon such
person may be tried for the offence with respect to which the immunity was
granted or for any other offence of which he appears to have been guilty in
connection with the settlement and shall also become liable to the imposition
of any penalty under this Act to which such person would have been liable, had
no such immunity been granted.
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
*127-I. Power of Settlement Commission to send a case back to the proper officer.—
(1) The Settlement Commission may, if it is of opinion that any person who
made an application for settlement under section 127B has not co-operated with
the Settlement Commission in the proceedings before it, send the case back to
the proper officer who shall thereupon dispose of the case in accordance with
the provisions of this Act as if no application under section 127B had been
made.
(2) For the purpose of sub-section (1), the proper officer shall be entitled
to use all the materials and other information produced by the assessee before
the Settlement Commission or the results of the inquiry held or evidence
recorded by the Settlement Commission in the course of the proceedings before
it as if such materials, information, inquiry and evidence had been produced
before such proper officer or held or recorded by him in the course of the
proceedings before him.
(3) For the purposes of the time limit under section 28 and for the purposes
of interest under section 28AA, in a case referred to in sub-section (1), the
period commencing on and from the date of the application to the Settlement
Commission under section 127B and ending with the date of receipt by the
officer of customs of the order of the Settlement Commission sending the case
back to the officer of customs, shall be excluded.
267 [127J. Order of settlement to be conclusive.—Every order of settlement
passed under sub-section 268 [(5)] of section 127C shall be conclusive as to
the matters stated therein and no matter covered by such order shall, save as
otherwise provided in this Chapter, be reopened in any proceeding under this
Act or under any other law for the time being in force. ]
269 [127K. Recovery of sums due under order of settlement.—Any sum specified
in an order of settlement passed under sub-section 270 [(5)] of section 127C
may, subject to such conditions, if any, as may be specified therein, be
recovered, and any penalty for default in making payment of such sum may be
imposed and recovered as sums due to the Central Government in accordance with
the provisions of section 142, by the proper officer having jurisdiction over
the applicant.]
271 [ 127L Bar on subsequent application for settlement in certain cases. —
272 [
(1) ] 273 [Where, 274 [***]]—
(i) an order of settlement passed under sub-section (7) of section 127C 275
[as it stood immediately before the commencement of section 102 of the Finance
Act, 2007 (22 of 2007) or sub-section (5) of section 127C] provides for the
imposition of a penalty on the applicant under section 27B for settlement, on
the ground of concealment of particulars of his duty liability; or
(ii) after the passing of an order of settlement under said sub-section (7)
276 [as it stood immediately before the commencement of section 102 of the
Finance Act, 2007 (22 of 2007) or sub-section (5) of section 127C] in relation
to a case, such person is convicted of any offence under this Act in relation
to that case; or
(iii) the case of such person is sent back to the proper officer by the
Settlement Commission under section 127-I,
then such person shall not be entitled to apply for settlement under section
127B in relation to any other matter. 277 [***] ]
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
*127M. Proceedings before Settlement Commission to be judicial proceedings.—Any proceedings under this Chapter before the Settlement Commission shall be deemed to be a judicial proceeding within the meaning of sections 193 and 228, and for the purposes of section 196, of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860).
278 [ 127MA Certain persons who have filed appeals to the Appellate Tribunal
entitled to make applications to the Settlement Commission. — [ Repealed by
the Finance Act, 2007 (22 of 2007), sec. 109 (w.e.f. 1-6-2007) ]. “127MA.
Certain persons who have filed appeals to the Appellate Tribunal entitled to
make applications to the Settlement Commission. —
(1) Notwithstanding anything contained in this Chapter, any person who has
filed an appeal to the Appellate Tribunal under this Act, on or before the
29th day of February, 2000 and which is pending, shall, on withdrawal of such
appeal from the Appellate Tribunal, be entitled to make an application to the
Settlement Commission to have his case settled under this Chapter: Provided
that no such person shall be entitled to make an application under this
section in a case where the Commissioner of Customs or any officer on his
behalf has, on or before the date on which the Finance Act, 2000 receives the
assent of the President, applied to the Appellate Tribunal for the
determination of such points arising out of the decision or order specified by
the Board in its order under sub-section (1) of section 129D or filed an
appeal under sub-section (2) of section 129A, as the case may be.
(2) Any person referred to in sub-section (1) may make an application to the
Appellate Tribunal for permission to withdraw the appeal.
(3) On receipt of an application under sub-section (2), the Appellate Tribunal
shall grant permission to withdraw the appeal.
(4) Upon withdrawal of the appeal, the proceedings in appeal immediately
before such withdrawal shall, for the purposes of this Chapter, be deemed to
be a proceeding pending before a proper officer.
(5) An application to the Settlement Commission under this section shall be
made within a period of thirty days from the date on which the order of the
Appellate Tribunal permitting the withdrawal of the appeal is communicated to
the person.
(6) An application made to the Settlement Commission under this section shall
be deemed to be an application made under sub-section (1) of section 127B and
the provisions of this Chapter, except sub-section (11) of section 127C, and
sub-section (1) of section 127-I, shall apply accordingly.
(7) Where an application made to the Settlement Commission under this section
is not entertained by the Settlement Commission, then, the appeal shall be
deemed to have been revived before the Appellate Tribunal and the provisions
contained in section 129A, section 129B and section 129C, shall, so far as may
be, apply accordingly.
(8) The Settlement Commission may, if it is of opinion that any person who
made an application under sub-section (5) has not co-operated with the
proceedings before it, send the case back to the Appellate Tribunal and the
provisions containing in section 129A, section 129B and section 129C shall, so
far as may be, apply accordingly.”.
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
*127N. Applications of certain provisions of Central Excise Act.—The provisions of Chapter V of the Central Excise Act, 1944 (1 of 1944), in so far as it is not inconsistent with the provisions of this Chapter shall apply in relation to proceedings before the Settlement Commission under this Chapter.
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
279 [ 128 Appeals to 280 [Commissioner (Appeals)]. —
(1) Any person aggrieved by any decision or order passed under this Act by an
officer of customs lower in rank than a 281 [Commissioner of Customs] may
appeal to the 280 [Commissioner (Appeals)] 282 [within sixty days] from the
date of the communication to him of such decision or order: 283 [Provided that
the Commissioner (Appeals) may, if he is satisfied that the appellant was
prevented by sufficient cause from presenting the appeal within the aforesaid
period of sixty days, allow it to be presented within a further period of
thirty days.]
284 [(1A) The Commissioner (Appeals) may, if sufficient cause is shown, at any
stage of hearing of an appeal, grant time, from time to time, to the parties
or any of them and adjourn the hearing of the appeal for reasons to be
recorded in writing: Provided that no such adjournment shall be granted more
than three times to a party during hearing of the appeal.]
(2) Every appeal under this section shall be in such form and shall be
verified in such manner as may be specified by rules made in this behalf.]
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
285 [ 128A Procedure in appeal. —
(1) The 286 [Commissioner (Appeals)] shall give an opportunity to the
appellant to be heard if he so desires.
(2) The 286 [Commissioner (Appeals)] may, at the hearing of an appeal, allow
the appellant to go into any ground of appeal not specified in the grounds of
appeal, if the 286 [Commissioner (Appeals)] is satisfied that the omission of
that ground from the grounds of appeal was not wilful or unreasonable.
(3) 287 [The Commissioner (Appeals) shall, after making such further inquiry
as may be necessary, pass such order, as he thinks just and proper,
confirming, modifying or annulling the decision or order appealed against:]
Provided that an order enhancing any penalty or fine in lieu of confiscation
or confiscating goods of the greater value or reducing the amount of refund
shall not be passed unless the appellant has been given a reasonable
opportunity of showing cause against the proposed order: Provided further that
where the 286 [Commissioner (Appeals)] is of opinion that any duty has not
been levied or has been short-levied or erroneously refunded, no order
requiring the appellant to pay any duty not levied, short-levied or
erroneously refunded shall be passed unless the appellant is given notice
within the time-limit specified in section 28 to show cause against the
proposed order.
(4) The order of the 287 [Commissioner (Appeals)] disposing of the appeals
shall be in writing and shall state the points for determination, the decision
thereon and the reasons for the decision.
288 [(4A) The Commissioner (Appeals) shall, where it is possible to do so,
hear and decide every appeal within a period of six months from the date on
which it is filed.]
(5) On the disposal of the appeal, the 287 [Commissioner (Appeals)] shall
communicate the order passed by him to the appellant, the adjudicating
authority 289 [, the Chief Commissioner of Customs and the Commissioner of
Customs].
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
290 [ 129 Appellate Tribunal. —
(1) The Central Government shall constitute an Appellate Tribunal to be called
the ‘Customs, Excise and 291 [Service Tax] Appellate Tribunal consisting of as
many judicial and technical members as it thinks fit to exercise the powers
and discharge the functions conferred on the Appellate Tribunal by this Act.
292 [(2) A judicial member shall be a person who has for at least ten years
held a judicial office in the territory of India or who has been a member of
the 293 [Indian Legal Service] and has held a post in Grade I of that service
or any equivalent or higher post for at least three years, or who has been an
advocate for at least ten years.
(Explanations) — For the purposes of this sub-section,—
(i) in computing the period during which a person has held judicial office in
the territory of India, there shall be included any period, after he has held
any judicial office, during which the person has been an advocate or has held
the office of a member of a tribunal or any post, under the Union or a State,
requiring special knowledge of law;
(ii) in computing the period during which a person has been an advocate, there
shall be included any period during which the person has held a judicial
office, or the office of a member of a tribunal or any post, under the Union
or a State, requiring special knowledge of law after he became an advocate.
(2A) A technical member shall be a person who has been a member of the Indian
Customs and Central Excise Service, Group A, and has held the post of 294
[Commissioner of Customs] or Central Excise or any equivalent or higher post
for at least three years.]
295 [(3) The Central Government shall appoint—
(a) a person who is or has been a Judge of a High Court; or
(b) one of the members of the Appellate Tribunal, to be the President
thereof.]
(4) The Central Government may appoint one or more members of the Appellate
Tribunal to be the Vice-President, or as the case may be Vice-Presidents,
thereof. 296 [***]
(5) 297 [ 298 [A Vice-President]] shall exercise such of the powers and
perform such of the functions of the President as may be delegated to him by
the President by a general or special order in writing.
299 [(6) On ceasing to hold office, the President, Vice-President or other
Member shall not be entitled to appear, act or plead before the Appellate
Tribunal.]
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
300 [ 129A Appeals to the Appellate Tribunal. —
(1) Any person aggrieved by any of the following orders may appeal to the
Appellate Tribunal against such order—
(a) a decision or order passed by the 301 [Commissioner of Customs] as an
adjudicating authority;
(b) an order passed by the 302 [Commissioner (Appeals)] under section 128A;
(c) an order passed by the Board or the Appellate 301 [Commissioner of
Customs] under section 128, as it stood immediately before the appointed day;
(d) an order passed by the Board or the 301 [Commissioner of Customs], either
before or after the appointed day, under section 130, as it stood immediately
before that day: 303 [Provided that no appeal shall lie to the Appellate
Tribunal and the Appellate Tribunal shall not have jurisdiction to decide any
appeal in respect of any order referred to in clause (b) if such order relates
to,—
(a) any goods imported or exported as baggage;
(b) any goods loaded in a conveyance for importation into India, but which are
not unloaded at their place of destination in India, or so much of the
quantity of such goods as has not been unloaded at any such destination if
goods unloaded at such destination are short of the quantity required to be
unloaded at that destination;
(c) payment of drawback as provided in Chapter X, and the rules made
thereunder: Provided further that] the Appellate Tribunal may, in its
discretion, refuse to admit an appeal in respect of an order referred to in
clause (b) or clause (c) or clause (d) where—
(i) the value of the goods confiscated without option having been given to the
owner of the goods to pay a fine in lieu of confiscation under section 125; or
(ii) in any disputed case, other than a case where the determination of any
question having a relation to the rate of duty of customs or to the value of
goods for purposes of assessment is in issue or is one of the points in issue,
the difference in duty involved or the duty involved; or
(iii) the amount of fine or penalty determined by such order, does not exceed
[Fifty thousand rupees.]
[(1A) Every appeal against any order of the nature referred to in the first
proviso to sub-section (1), which is pending immediately before the
commencement of section 40 of the Finance Act, 1984 before the Appellate
Tribunal and any matter arising out of or connected with such appeal and which
is so pending shall stand transferred on such commencement to the Central
Government and the Central Government shall deal with such appeal or matter
under section 129DD as if such appeal or matter were an application or a
matter arising out of an application made to it under that section.] 304
[((1B) (i) The Board may, by notification in the Official Gazette, constitute
such Committees as may be necessary for the purposes of this Act.
(ii) Every Committee constituted under clause (i) shall consist of two Chief
Commissioners of Customs or two Commissioners of Customs, as the case may be.]
305 [(2) 306 [The Committee of Commissioners of Customs may, if it is] of
opinion that an order passed by—
(a) the Appellate 305 [Commissioner of Customs] under section 128, as it stood
immediately before the appointed day, or
(b) the 302 [Commissioner (Appeals)] under section 128A, is not legal or
proper, direct the proper officer to appeal 307 [on its behalf] to the
Appellate Tribunal or, as the case may be, the Customs and Excise Revenues
Appellate Tribunal established under section 3 of the Customs and Excise
Revenues Appellate Tribunal Act, 1986, against such order.]
(3) Every appeal under this section shall be filed within three months from
the date on which the order sought to be appealed against is communicated to
the 2 [Commissioner of Customs], or as the case may be, the other party
preferring the appeal.
(4) On receipt of notice that an appeal has been preferred under this section,
the party against whom the appeal has been preferred may, notwithstanding that
he may not have appealed against such order or any part thereof, file, within
forty-five days of the receipt of the notice, a memorandum of cross-objections
verified in such manner as may be specified by rules made in this behalf
against any part of the order appealed against and such memorandum shall be
disposed of by the Appellate Tribunal as if it were an appeal presented within
the time specified in sub-section (3).
(5) The Appellate Tribunal may admit an appeal or permit the filing of a
memorandum of cross-objections after expiry of the relevant period referred to
in sub-section (3) or sub-section (4), if it is satisfied that there was
sufficient cause for not presenting it within that period.
308 [(6) An appeal to the Appellate Tribunal shall be in such form and shall
be verified in such manner as may be specified by rules made in this behalf
and shall, irrespective of the date of demand of duty and interest or of levy
of penalty in relation to which the appeal is made, be accompanied by a fee
of,—
(a) where the amount of duty and interest demanded and penalty levied by any
officer of customs in the case to which the appeal relates is five lakh rupees
or less, one thousand rupees;
(b) where the amount of duty and interest demanded and penalty levied by any
officer of customs in the case to which the appeal relates is more than five
lakh rupees but not exceeding fifty lakh rupees, five thousand rupees;
(c) where the amount of duty and interest demanded and penalty levied by any
officer of customs in the case to which the appeal relates is more than fifty
lakh rupees, ten thousand rupees: Provided that no such fee shall be payable
in the case of an appeal referred to in sub-section (2) or a memorandum of
cross-objections referred to in sub-section (4).
(7) Every application made before the Appellate Tribunal,—
(a) in an appeal for grant of stay or for rectification of mistake or for any
other purpose; or
(b) for restoration of an appeal or an application, shall be accompanied by a
fee of five hundred rupees: Provided that no such fee shall be payable in the
case of an application filed by or on behalf of the Commissioner of Customs
under this sub-section.]
309 [ 129B Orders of Appellate Tribunal. —
(1) The Appellate Tribunal may, after giving the parties to the appeal, an
opportunity of being heard, pass such orders thereon as it thinks fit,
confirm­ing, modifying or annulling the decision or order appealed against or
may refer the case back to the authority which passed such decision or order
with such directions as the Appellate Tribunal may think fit, for a fresh
adjudication or decision, as the case may be, after taking additional
evidence, if necessary.
310 [(1A) The Appellate Tribunal may, if sufficient cause is shown, at any
stage of hearing of an appeal, grant time to the parties or any of them and
adjourn the hearing of the appeal for reasons to be recorded in writing:
Provided that no such adjournment shall be granted more than three times to a
party during hearing of the appeal.]
(2) The Appellate Tribunal may, at any time within 311 [six months] from the
date of the order, with a view to rectifying any mistake apparent from the
record, amend any order passed by it under sub-section (1) and shall make such
amendments if the mistake is brought to its notice by the 312 [Commissioner of
Customs] or the other party to appeal: Provided that an amendment which has
the effect of enhancing the assessment or reducing a refund or otherwise
increasing the liability of the other party shall not be made under this sub-
section, unless the Appellate Tribunal has given notice to him of its
intention to do so and has allowed him a reasonable opportunity of being
heard.
313 [(2A) The Appellate Tribunal shall, where it is possible to do so, hear
and decide every appeal within a period of three years from the date on which
such appeal is filed: Provided that where an order of stay is made in any
proceedings relating to an appeal filed under sub-section (1) of section 129A,
the Appellate Tribunal shall dispose of the appeal within a period of one
hundred and eighty days from the date of such order: Provided further that if
such appeal is not disposed of within the period specified in the first
proviso, the stay order shall, on the expiry of that period, stand vacated.]
(3) The Appellate Tribunal shall send a copy of every order passed under this
section to the 312 [Commissioner of Customs] and the other party to the
appeal.
(4) Save as otherwise provided in section 130 or section 130E, orders passed
by the Appellate Tribunal on appeal shall be final.]
314 [ 129C Procedure of Appellate Tribunal. —
(1) The powers and functions of the Appellate Tribunal may be exercised and
discharged by Benches constituted by the President from amongst the members
thereof.
(2) Subject to the provisions contained in 315 [sub-section (4)], a Bench
shall consist of one judicial member and one technical member. 316 [***]
(4) The President or any other member of the Appellate Tribunal authorised in
this behalf by the President may, sitting singly, dispose of any case which
has been allotted to the Bench of which he is a member where—
(a) the value of the goods confiscated without option having been given to the
owner of the goods to pay a fine in lieu of confiscation under section 125; or
(b) in any disputed case, other than a case where the determination of any
question having a relation to the rate of duty of customs or to the value of
goods for purposes of assessment is in issue or is one of the points in issue,
the difference in duty involved or the duty involved; or
(c) the amount of fine, or penalty involved, does not exceed 317 [ten lakh
rupees.]
318 [(5) If the members of a Bench differ in opinion on any point, the point
shall be decided according to the opinion of the majority, if there is a
majority; but if the members are equally divided, they shall state the point
or points on which they differ and make a reference to the President who shall
either hear the point or points himself or refer the case for hearing on such
point or points by one or more of the other members of the Appellate Tribunal
and such point or points shall be decided according to the opinion of the
majority of these members of the Appellate Tribunal who have heard the case,
including those who first heard it.]
(6) Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Appellate Tribunal shall have
power to regulate its own procedure and the procedure of the Benches thereof
in all matters arising out of the exercise of its power or of the discharge of
its functions, including the places at which the Benches shall hold their
sittings.
(7) The Appellate Tribunal shall, for the purposes of discharging its
functions have the same powers as are vested in the court under the Code of
Civil Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908) when trying a suit in respect of the
following matters, namely:—
(a) discovery and inspection;
(b) enforcing the attendance of any person and examining him on oath;
(c) compelling the production of books of accounts and other documents; and
(d) issuing commissions.
(8) Any proceeding before the Appellate Tribunal shall be deemed to be a
judicial proceeding within the meaning of sections 193 and 228 and for the
purpose of section 196, of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860) and the
Appellate Tribunal shall be deemed to be a Civil Court for all the purposes of
section 195, and Chapter XXVI of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of
1974).]
129D. Power of 319 [Committee of Chief Commissioners of Customs] or 320
[Commissioner of Customs] to pass certain orders.—
(1) The 319 [Committee of Chief Commissioners of Customs] may, of its own
motion, call for and examine the record of any proceeding in which a 320
[Commissioner of Customs] as an adjudicating authority has passed any decision
or order under this Act for the purpose of satisfying itself as to the
legality or propriety of any such decision or order and may, by order, direct
such 321 [Commissioner] 322 [or any other Commissioner] to apply to the
Appellate Tribunal 323 [ or, as the case may be, the Customs and Excise
Revenues Appellate Tribunal established under section 3 of the Customs and
Excise Revenues Appellate Tribunal Act, 1986] for the determination of such
points arising out of the decision or order as may be specified by the 319
[Committee of Chief Commissioners of Customs] in its order.
(2) The 320 [Commissioner of Customs] may of his own motion, call for and
examine the record of any proceeding in which an adjudicating authority
subordinate to him has passed any decision or order under this Act for the
purpose of satisfying himself as to the legality or propriety of any such
decision or order and may, by order, direct 324 [such authority or any officer
of customs subordinate to him] to apply to the 325 [Commissioner (Appeals)]
for the determination of such points arising out of the decision or order as
may be specified by the 320 [Commissioner of Customs] in his order.
326 [(3) The Committee of Chief Commissioners of Customs or the Commissioner
of Customs, as the case may be, shall make order under sub-section (1) or sub-
section (2) within a period of three months from the date of communication of
the decision or order of the adjudicating authority.]
(4) Where in pursuance of an order under sub-section (1) or sub-section (2),
the adjudicating or any officer of customs authorised in this behalf by the
321 [Commissioner of Customs] makes an application to the Appellate Tribunal
323 [or, as the case may be, the Customs and Excise Revenues Appellate
Tribunal established under section 3 of the Customs and Excise Revenues
Appellate Tribunal Act, 1986] or the 325 [Commissioner (Appeals)] within a
period of 327 [one month] from the date of communication of the order under
sub-section (1) or sub-section (2) to the adjudicating authority, such
application shall be heard by the Appellate Tribunal 323 [or, as the case may
be, the Customs and Excise Revenues Appellate Tribunal established under
section 3 of the Customs and Excise Revenues Appellate Tribunal Act, 1986] or
the 325 [Commissioner (Appeals)] as the case may be, as if such applications
were an appeal made against the decision or order of the adjudicating
authority and the provisions of this Act regarding appeals, including the
provisions of sub-section (4) of section 129A 323 [or, as the case may be, the
provisions of the Customs and Excise Revenues Appellate Act, 1986] shall, so
far as may be, apply to such application.
328 [(5) The provisions of this section shall not apply to any decision or
order in which the determination of any question having a relation to the rate
of the duty or to the value of goods for the purposes of assessment of any
duty is in issue or is one of the points in issue. Explanation.—For the
purposes of this sub-section, the determination of a rate of duty in relation
to any goods or valuation of any goods for the purposes of assessment of duty
includes the determination of a question—
(a) relating to the rate of duty for the time being in force, whether under
the Customs Tariff Act, 1975 (51 of 1975) or under any other Central Act
providing for the levy and collection of any duty of customs, in relation to
any goods on or after the 28th day of February, 1986; or
(b) relating to the value of goods for the purposes of assessment of any(b)
relating to the value of goods for the purposes of assessment of any duty in
cases where the assessment is made on or after the 28th day of February, 1986;
or
(c) whether any goods fall under particular heading or sub-heading of the
First Schedule or the Second Schedule to the Customs Tariff Act, 1975 (51 of
1975) or that any goods are or not covered by a particular notification or
order issued by the Central Government granting total or partial exemption
from duty; or
(d) whether the values of any goods for the purposes of assessment of duty
shall be enhanced or reduced by the addition or reduction of the amounts in
respect of such matters as are specifically provided in this Act.]
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
1[129DA. Powers of revision of Board or 2[Commissioner of Customs] in certain
cases.—
(1) The Board may of its own motion or on the application of any aggrieved
person or otherwise, call for and examine the record of any proceeding in
which a 2[Commissioner of Customs] has passed any decision or order [not being
a decision or order passed under sub-section (2) of this section] of the
nature referred to in sub-section (5) of section 129D for the purpose of
satisfying himself as to the correctness, legality or propriety of such
decision or order and may pass such order thereon as he thinks fit.
(2) The 2[Commissioner of Customs] may, of his own motion or on the
application of any aggrieved person or otherwise, call for and examine the
record of any proceeding in which an adjudicating authority subordinate to him
has passed any decision or order of the nature referred to in sub-section (5)
of section 129D for the purpose of satisfying himself as to the correctness,
legality or propriety of such decision or order and may pass such order
thereon as he thinks fit.
(3) (a) No decision or order under this section shall be made so as to
prejudicially affect any person unless such person is given a reasonable
opportunity of making representation and if, he so desires, of being heard in
his defence.
(b) Where the Board or, as the case may be, the 2[Commissioner of Customs] is
of the opinion that any duty has not been levied or has been short-levied or
short-paid or erroneously refunded, no order requiring the affected person to
pay any duty not levied or paid, short-levied or short-paid or erroneously
refunded shall be passed under this section unless such person is given notice
within the time limit specified in section 28 to show cause against the
proposed order.
(4) No proceedings shall be initiated under sub-section (1) or sub-section (2)
in respect of any decision or order after the expiry of a period of six months
from the date of communication of such decision or order: Provided that in
respect of any decision or order passed before the commencement of the Customs
and Central Excise Laws (Amendment) Act, 1988*, the provisions of this sub-
section shall have effect as if for the words “six months”’ the words “one
year” were substituted.
(5) Any person aggrieved by any decision or order passed under sub-section (1)
or sub-section (2) may appeal to the Customs and Excise Revenues Appellate
Tribunal established under section 3 of the Customs and Excise Revenues
Appellate Tribunal Act, 1986 (62 of 1986), against such decision or order.]
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
1[129DD. Revision by Central Government.—
(1) The Central Government may, on the application of any person aggrieved by
any order passed under section 128A, where the order is of the nature referred
to in the first proviso to sub-section (1) of section 129A, annul or modify
such order: 2[Provided that the Central Government may in its discretion,
refuse to admit an application in respect of an order where the amount of duty
or fine or penalty, determined by such order does not exceed five thousand
rupees.] Explanation.—For the purposes of this sub-section, “order passed
under section 128A” included an order passed under that section before the
commencement of section 40 of the Finance Act, 1984*, against which an appeal
has not been preferred before such commencement and could have been, if the
said section had not come into force, preferred after such commencement, to
the Appellate Tribunal. 2[(1A) The Commissioner of Customs may, if he is of
the opinion that an order passed by the Commissioner (Appeals) under section
128A is not legal or proper, direct the proper officer to make an application
on his behalf to the Central Government for revision of such order.]
(2) An application under sub-section (1) shall be made within three months
from the date of the communication to the applicant of the order against which
the application is being made: Provided that the Central Government may, if it
is satisfied that the applicant was prevented by sufficient cause from
presenting the application within the aforesaid period of three months, allow
it to be presented within a future period of three months. 3[(3) An
application under sub-section (1) shall be in such form and shall be verified
in such manner as may be specified by rules made in this behalf and shall be
accompanied by a fee of,—
(a) two hundred rupees, where the amount of duty and interest demanded, fine
or penalty levied by an officer of customs in the case to which the
application relates is one lakh rupees or less;
(b) one thousand rupees, where the amount of duty and interest demanded, fine
or penalty levied by an officer of customs in the case to which the
application relates is more than one lakh rupees: Provided that no such fee
shall be payable in the case of an application referred to in sub-section
(1A).]
(4) The Central Government may, of its own motion, annul or modify any order
referred to in sub-section (1).
(5) No order enhancing any penalty or fine in lieu of confiscation or
confiscating goods of greater value shall be passed under this section,—
(a) in any case in which an order passed under section 128A has enhanced any
penalty or fine in lieu of confiscation or has confiscated goods of greater
value, and
(b) in any other case, unless the person affected by the proposed order has
been given notice to show cause against it within one year from the date of
the order sought to be annulled or modified.
(6) Where the Central Government is of opinion that any duty of customs has
not been levied or has been short-levied, no order levying or enhancing the
duty shall be made under this section unless the person affected by the
proposed order is given notice to show cause against it within the time limit
specified in section 128.]
334 [ 129E Deposit, pending appeal, of 335 [duty and interest], demanded or
penalty levied. —Where in any appeal under this Chapter, the decision or order
appealed against relates to any 335 [duty and interest] demanded in respect of
goods which are not under the control of the customs authorities or any
penalty levied under this Act, the person desirous of appealing against such
decision or order shall, pending the appeal deposit with the proper officer
335 [duty and interest] demanded or penalty levied: Provided that where in any
particular case, the 336 [Commissioner (Appeals)] or the Appellate Tribunal is
of the opinion that the deposit of 335 [duty and interest] demanded or penalty
levied would cause undue hardship to such person, the 336 [Commissioner
(Appeals)] or, as the case may be, the Appellate Tribunal may dispense with
such deposit subject to such conditions as he or it may deem fit to impose so
as to safeguard the interests of revenue: 337 [Provided further that where an
application is filed before the Commissioner (Appeals) for dispensing with the
deposit of duty and interest demanded or penalty levied under the first
proviso, the Commissioner (Appeals) shall, where it is possible to do so,
decide such application within thirty days from the date of its filing.] ]
338 [ 339 [ 130 Appeal to High Court. —[ Rep. by the National Tax Tribunal
Act, 2005 (49 of 2005), sec. 30 and Sch., Pt. VI-7 (w.e.f. 28-12-2005). ]]
(a) filed within one hundred and eighty days from the date on which the order
appealed against is received by the commissioner of Customs or the other
party;
(b) accompanied by a fee of two hundred rupees where such appeal is filed by
the other party;
(c) in the form of a memorandum of appeal precisely stating therein the
substantial question of law involved.
340 [ 130A Application to High Court. —[ Rep. by the National Tax Tribunal
Act, 2005 (49 of 2005), sec. 30 and Sch., Pt. VI-7 (w.e.f. 28-12-2005) .]]
342 [ 343 [ 130B Power of High Court or Supreme Court to require statement to
be amended. —[ Rep. by the National Tax Tribunal Act, 2005 (49 of 2005), sec.
30 and Sch., Pt. VI-7 (w.e.f. 28-12-2005) .]]]
[ [130C. Case before High Court to be heard by not less than two judges.—[
Rep. by the National Tax Tribunal Act, 2005 (49 of 2005), sec. 30 and Sch.,
Pt. VI-7 (w.e.f. 28-12-2005) .]]]
346 [ 347 [ 130D Decision of High Court or Supreme Court on the case stated.
—[ Rep. by the National Tax Tribunal Act, 2005 (49 of 2005), sec. 30 and Sch.,
Pt. VI-7 (w.e.f. 28-12-2005) .]]]
348 [ 130E Appeal to Supreme Court. —An appeal shall lie to the Supreme Court
from—
349 [(a) any judgment of the High Court delivered—
(i) in an appeal made under section 130; or
(ii) on a reference made under section 130 by the Appellate Tribunal before
the 1st day of July, 2003;
(iii) on a reference made under section 130A, in any case which, on its own
motion or on an oral application made by or on behalf of the party aggrieved,
immediately after the passing of the judgment, the High Court certifies to be
a fit one for appeal to the Supreme Court; or]
(b) any order passed 350 [before the establishment of the National Tax
Tribunal] by the Appellate Tribunal relating, among other things, to the
determination of any question having a relation to the rate of duty of customs
or to the value of goods for purposes of assessment.]
351 [ 130F Hearing before Supreme Court. —
(1) The provisions of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908) relating
to appeals to the Supreme Court shall, so far as may be, apply in the case of
appeals under section 130 as they apply in the case of appeals from decrees of
a High Court: Provided that nothing in this sub-section shall be deemed to
affect the provisions of sub-section (1) of section 130D or section 131.
(2) The costs of the appeal shall be in the discretion of the Supreme Court.
(3) Where the judgment of the High Court is varied or reversed in the appeal,
effect shall be given to the order of the Supreme Court in the manner provided
in section 130D in the case of a judgment of High Court.]
352 [ 131 Sums due to be paid notwithstanding reference, etc. —Notwithstanding
that a reference has been made to the High Court or the Supreme Court or an
appeal has been preferred to the Supreme Court 353 [under this Act before the
commencement of the National Tax Tribunal Act, 2005], sums due to the
Government as a result of an order passed under sub-section
(1) of section 129B shall be payable in accordance with the order so passed.]
354 [ 131A Exclusion of time taken for copy. —In computing the period of
limitation specified for an appeal or application under this Chapter, the day
on which the order complained of was served, and if the party preferring the
appeal or making the application was not furnished with a copy of the order
when the notice of the order was served upon him, the time requisite for
obtaining a copy of such order shall be excluded.]
355 [ 131B Transfer of certain pending proceedings and transitional
provisions. —
(1) Every appeal which is pending immediately before the appointed day before
the Board under section 128, as it stood immediately before that day, and any
matter arising out of or connected with such appeal and which is so pending
shall stand transferred on that day to the Appellate Tribunal and the
Appellate Tribunal may proceed with such appeal or matter from the stage at
which it was on that day: Provided that the appellant may demand that before
proceeding further with that appeal or matter may be re-heard.
(2) Every proceeding which is pending immediately before the appointed day
before the Central Government under section 131, as it stood immediately
before that day, and any matter arising out of or connected with such
proceeding and which is so pending shall stand transferred on that day to the
Appellate Tribunal and the Appellate Tribunal may proceed with such proceeding
or matter from the stage at which it was on that day as if such proceeding or
matter were an appeal filed before it: Provided that if any such proceeding or
matter relates to an order where—
(a) the value of the goods confiscated without option having been given to the
owner of the goods to pay a fine in lieu of confiscation under section 125; or
(b) in any disputed case, other than a case where the determination of any
question having a relation to the rate of duty of customs or to the value of
goods for purposes of assessment is in issue or is one of the points in issue,
the difference in duty involved or the duty involved; or
(c) the amount of fine or penalty determined by such order, does not exceed
ten thousand rupees, such proceeding or matter shall continue to be dealt with
by the Central Government as in the said section 131 had not been substituted:
Provided further that the applicant or the other party may make a demand to
the Appellate Tribunal that before proceeding further with that proceeding or
matter, he may be re-heard.
(3) Every proceeding which is pending immediately before the appointed day
before the Board or the 356 [Commissioner of Customs] under section 130, as it
stood immediately before that day, and any matter arising out of or connected
with such proceeding and which is so pending shall continue to be dealt with
by the Board or the 356 [Commissioner of Customs], as the case may be, as if
the said section had not been submitted.
(4) Any person who immediately before the appointed day was authorised to
appear in any appeal or proceeding transferred under sub-section (1) or sub-
section (2) shall, notwithstanding anything contained in section 146A, have
the right to appear before the Appellate Tribunal in relation to such appeal
or proceeding.]
357 [ 131C Definitions. —In this Chapter—
(a) “appointed day” means the date of coming into force of the amendments to
this Act specified in part 1 of the Fifth Schedule to the Finance (No. 2) Act,
1980 (44 of 1980); 358 [***]
(c) “President” means the President of the Appellate Tribunal.]
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
132. False declaration, false documents, etc.—Whoever makes, signs or uses, or causes to be made, signed or used, any declaration, statement or document in the transaction of any business relating to the customs knowing or having reason to believe that such declaration, statement or document is false in any material particular, shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to 1[two years], or with fine, or with both.
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
133. Obstruction of officer of customs.—If any person intentionally obstructs any officer of customs in the exercise of any powers conferred under this Act, such person shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to 1[Two years], or with fine, or with both.
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
134. Refusal to be X-rayed.—If any person—
(a) resist or refuses to allow a radiologist to screen or to take X-ray
picture of his body in accordance with an order made by a magistrate under
section 103, or
(b) resists or refuses to allow suitable action being taken on the advice and
under the supervision of a registered medical practitioner for bringing out
goods liable to confiscation secreted inside his body, as provided in section
103, he shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to
six months, or with fine, or with both.
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
135. Evasion of duty or prohibitions.—1[
(1) Without prejudice to any action that may be taken under this Act, if any
person—
(a) is in relation to any goods in any way knowingly concerned in
misdeclaration of value or in any fraudulent evasion or attempt at evasion of
any duty chargeable thereon or of any prohibition for the time being imposed
under this Act or any other law for the time being in force with respect to
such goods; or
(b) acquires possession of or is in any way concerned in carrying, removing,
depositing, harbouring, keeping, concealing, selling or purchasing or in any
other manner dealing with any goods which he knows or has reason to believe
are liable to confiscation under section 111 or section 113, as the case may
be; or
(c) attempts to export any goods which he knows or has reason to believe are
liable to confiscation under section 113; or
(d) fraudulently avails of or attempts to avail of drawback or any exemption
from duty provided under this Act in connection with export of goods, he shall
be punishable,—
(i) in the case of an offence relating to,—
(A) any goods the market price of which exceeds one crore of rupees; or
(B) the evasion or attempted evasion of duty exceeding thirty lakh of rupees;
or
(C) such categories of prohibited goods as the Central Government may, by
notification in the Official Gazette, specify; or
(D) fraudulently availing of or attempting to avail of drawback or any
exemption from duty referred to in clause (d), if the amount of drawback or
exemption from duty exceeds thirty lakh of rupees, with imprisonment for a
term which may extend to seven years and with fine: Provided that in the
absence of special and adequate reasons to the contrary to be recorded in the
judgment of the court, such imprisonment shall not be for less than one year;
(ii) in any other case, with imprisonment for a term which may extend to three
years, or with fine, or with both.] 2[(2) If any person convicted of an
offence under this section or under sub-section (1) of section 136 is again
convicted of an offence under this section, then, he shall be punishable for
the second and for every subsequent offence with imprisonment for a term which
may extend to seven years and with fine: Provided that in the absence of
special and adequate reasons to the contrary to be recorded in the judgment of
the court such imprisonment shall not be for less than 3[one year].
(3) For the purposes of sub-section (1) and (2), the following shall not be
considered as special and adequate reasons for awarding a sentence of
imprisonment for a term of less than 3[one year], namely:—
(i) the fact that the accused has been convicted for the first time for a
reference under this Act;
(ii) the fact that in any proceeding under this Act, other than a prosecution,
the accused has been ordered to pay a penalty or the goods which are the
subject matter of such proceedings have been ordered to be confiscated or any
other action has been taken against him for the same act which constitutes the
offence;
(iii) the fact that the accused was not the principal offender and was acting
merely as a carrier of goods or otherwise was a secondary party to the
commission of the offence;
(iv) the age of the accused.]
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
1[135A. Preparation.—If a person makes preparation to export any goods in
contravention of the provisions of this Act, and from the circumstances of the
case it may be reasonably inferred that if not prevented by circumstances
independent of his will, he is determined to carry out his intention to commit
the offence, he shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may
extend to three years, or with fine, or with both.]
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
1[135B. Power of court to publish name, place of business, etc., of persons
convicted under the Act.—
(1) Where any person is convicted under this Act for contravention of any of
the provisions thereof it shall be competent for the court convicting the
person to cause the name and place of business or residence of such person,
nature of the contravention, the fact that the person has been so convicted
and such other particulars as the court may consider to be appropriate in the
circumstances of the case, to be published at the expense of such person in
such newspapers or in such manner as the court may direct.
(2) No publication under sub-section (1) shall be made until the period for
preferring an appeal against the orders of the court has expired without any
appeal having been preferred, or such an appeal, having been preferred, has
been disposed of.
(3) The expenses of any publication under sub-section (1) shall be recoverable
from the convicted person as if it were a fine imposed by the court.]
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
136. Offences by officers of customs.—
(1) If any officer of customs enters into or acquiesces in any agreement to
do, abstains from doing, permits, conceals or 1[connives at any act or thing,
whereby any fraudulent export is effected or] any duty of customs leviable on
any goods, or any prohibition for the time being in force under this Act or
any other law for the time being in force with respect to any goods is or may
be evaded, he shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may
extend to 2[three years], or with fine, or with both.
(2) If any officer of customs,—
(a) requires any person to be searched for goods liable to confiscation or any
document relating thereto, without having reason to believe that he has such
goods or document secreted about his person; or
(b) arrests any person without having reason to believe that he has been
guilty of an offence punishable under section 135; or
(c) searches or authorises any other officer of customs to search any place
without having reason to believe that any goods, documents or things of the
nature referred to in section 105 are secreted in that place, he shall be
punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to six months, or
with fine which may extend to one thousand rupees, or with both.
(3) If any officer of customs, except in the discharge in good faith of his
duty as such officer or in compliance with any requisition made under any law
for the time being in force, discloses any particulars learnt by him in his
official capacity in respect of any goods, he shall be punishable with
imprisonment for a term which may extend to six months, or with fine which may
extend to one thousand rupees, or with both.
137 Cognizance of offences. —
(1) No court shall take cognizance of any offence under section 132, section
133, section 134 or 368 [section 135 or section 135A], except with the
previous sanction of the 369 [Commissioner of Customs].
(2) No court shall take cognizance of any offence under section 136,—
(a) where the offence is alleged to have been committed by an officer of
customs not lower in rank than 370 [Assistant Commissioner of Customs or
Deputy Commissioner of Customs], except with the previous sanction of the
Central Government;
(b) where the offence is alleged to have been committed by an officer of
customs lower in rank than 370 [Assistant Commissioner of Customs or Deputy
Commissioner of Customs], except with the previous sanction of the 369
[Commissioner of Customs].
371 [(3) Any offence under this Chapter may, either before or after the
institution of prosecution, be compounded by the Chief Commissioner of Customs
on payment, by the person accused of the offence to the Central Government, of
372 [such compounding amount and in such manner of compounding] as may be
specified by rules.] 373 [Provided that nothing contained in this sub-section
shall apply to—
(a) a person who has been allowed to compound once in respect of any offence
under sections 135 and 135A;
(b) a person who has been accused of committing an offence under this Act
which is also an offence under any of the following Acts, namely:—
(i) the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985 (61 of 1985);
(ii) the Chemical Weapons Convention Act, 2000 (34 of 2000);
(iii) the Arms Act, 1959 (54 of 1959);
(iv) the Wild Life (Protection) Act, 1972 (53 of 1972);
(c) a person involved in smuggling of goods falling under any of the
following, namely:—
(i) goods specified in the list of Special Chemicals, Organisms, Materials,
Equipment and Technology in Appendix 3 to Schedule 2 (Export Policy) of ITC
(HS) Classification of Export and Import Items of the Foreign Trade Policy, as
amended from time to time, issued under section 5 of the Foreign Trade
(Development and Regulation) Act, 1992 (22 of 1992);
(ii) goods which are specified as prohibited items for import and export in
the ITC (HS) Classification of Export and Import Items of the Foreign Trade
Policy, as amended from time to time, issued under section 5 of the Foreign
Trade (Development and Regulation) Act, 1992 (22 of 1992);
(iii) any other goods or documents, which are likely to affect friendly
relations with a foreign State or are derogatory to national honour;
(d) a person who has been allowed to compound once in respect of any offence
under this Chapter for goods of value exceeding rupees one crore;
(e) a person who has been convicted under this Act on or after the 30th day of
December, 2005.]
In cases of compounding of offences it would be the duty of the compounding
Authority to find out existence of material, outside the evidence, which
suggests that disclosure is inaccurate, misleading or incomplete; Union of
India v. Anil Chanana, 2008 (4) SCC 175: 2008 (2) SCR 1.
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
138. Offences to be tried summarily.—Notwithstanding anything contained in the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898 (5 of 1898)1 an offence under this Chapter other than an offence punishable 2[under clause
(i) of sub-section (1) of section 135 or under sub-section (2) of that
section] may be tried summarily by a magistrate.
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
1[138A. Presumption of culpable mental state.—
(1) In any prosecution for an offence under this Act which requires a culpable
mental state on the part of the accused, the court shall presume the existence
of such mental state but it shall be a defence for the accused to prove the
fact that he had no such mental state with respect to the act charged as an
offence in that prosecution. Explanation.—In this section, “culpable mental
state” includes intention, motive, knowledge of a fact and belief in, or
reason to believe, a fact.
(2) For the purpose of this section, a fact is said to be proved only when the
court believes it to exist beyond reasonable doubt and not merely when its
existence is established by a preponderance of probability.]
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
1[138B. Relevancy of statements under certain circumstances.—
(1) A statement made and signed by a person before any gazetted officer of
customs during the course of any inquiry or proceeding under this Act shall be
relevant, for the purpose of proving, in any prosecution for an offence under
this Act, the truth of the facts which it contains,—
(a) when the person who made the statement is dead or cannot be found, or is
incapable of giving evidence, or is kept out of the way by the adverse party,
or whose presence cannot be obtained without an amount of delay or expense
which, under the circumstances of the case, the court considers unreasonable;
or
(b) when the person who made the statement is examined as a witness in the
case before the court and the court is of opinion that, having regard to the
circumstances of the case, the statement should be admitted in evidence in the
interests of justice.
(2) The provisions of sub-section (1) shall so far as may be apply in relation
to any proceeding under this Act, other than a proceeding before a court, as
they apply in relation to a proceeding before a court.]
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
1[138C. Admissibility of micro films, facsimile copies of documents and
computer print outs as documents and as evidence.—
(1) Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in
force,—
(a) a micro film of a document or the reproduction of the image or images
embodied in such micro film (whether enlarged or not); or
(b) a facsimile copy of a document; or
(c) a statement contained in a document and included in a printed material
produced by a computer (hereinafter referred to as a “computer print out”), if
the conditions mentioned in sub-section (2) and the other provisions contained
in this section are satisfied in relation to the statement and the computer in
question, shall be deemed to be also a document for the purposes of this Act
and the rules made thereunder and shall be admissible in any proceedings
thereunder, without further proof or production of the original, as evidence
of any contents of the original or of any fact stated therein of which direct
evidence would be admissible.
(2) The conditions referred to in sub-section (1) in respect of a computer
print out shall be the following, namely:—
(a) the computer print out containing the statement was produced by the
computer during the period over which the computer was used regularly to store
or process information for the purposes of any activities regularly carried on
over that period by the person having lawful control over the use of the
computer;
(b) during the said period, there was regularly supplied to the computer in
the ordinary course of the said activities, information of the kind contained
in the statement or of the kind from which the information so contained is
derived;
(c) throughout the material part of the said period, the computer was
operating properly or, if not, then any respect in which it was not operating
properly or was out of operation during that part of that period was not such
as to affect the production of the document or the accuracy of the contents;
and
(d) the information contained in the statement reproduces or is derived from
information supplied to the computer in the ordinary course of the said
activities.
(3) Where over any period, the function of storing or processing information
for the purposes of any activities regularly carried on over that period as
mentioned in clause (a) of sub-section (2) was regularly performed by
computers, whether—
(a) by a combination of computers operating over that period; or
(b) by different computers operating in succession over that period; or
(c) by different combination of computers operating in succession over that
period; or
(d) in any other manner involving the successive operation over that period,
in whatever order, of one or more computers and one or more combinations of
computers, all the computers used for that purpose during that period shall be
treated for the purposes of this section as constituting a single computer;
and references in this section to a computer shall be construed accordingly.
(4) In any proceedings under this Act and the rules made thereunder where it
is desired to give a statement in evidence by virtue of this section, a
certificate doing any of the following things, that is to say,—
(a) identifying the document containing the statement and describing the
manner in which it was produced;
(b) giving such particulars of any device involved in the production of that
document as may be appropriate for the purpose of showing that the document
was produced by a computer;
(c) dealing with any of the matters to which the conditions mentioned in sub-
section (2) relate, and purporting to be signed by a person occupying a
responsible official position in relation to the operation of the relevant
device or the management of the relevant activities (whichever is appropriate)
shall be evidence of any matter stated in the certificate; and for the
purposes of this sub-section it shall be sufficient for a matter to be stated
to the best of the knowledge and belief of the person stating it.
(5) For the purpose of this section,—
(a) information shall be taken to be supplied to a computer if it is supplied
thereto in any appropriate form and whether it is so supplied directly or
(with or without human intervention) by means of any appropriate equipment;
(b) whether in the course of activities carried on by any official,
information is supplied with a view to its being stored or processed for the
purposes of those activities by a computer operated otherwise than in the
course of those activities, that information, if duly supplied to that
computer, shall be taken to be supplied to it in the course of those
activities;
(c) a document shall be taken to have been produced by a computer whether it
was produced by it directly or (with or without human intervention) by means
of any appropriate equipment. Explanation.—For the purposes of this section,—
(a) “computer” means any device that receives, stores and processes data,
applying stipulated processes to the information and supplying results of
these processes; and
(b) any reference to information being derived from other information shall be
a reference to its being derived therefrom by calculating, comparison or any
other process.]
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
1[139. Presumption as to documents in certain cases.—Where any document—
(i) is produced by any person or has been seized from the custody or control
of any person, in either case, under this Act or under any other law, or
(ii) has been received from any place outside India in the course of
investigation of any offence alleged to have been committed by any person
under this Act, and such document is tendered by the prosecution in evidence
against him or against him and any other person who is tried jointly with him,
the court shall—
(a) presume, unless the contrary is proved, that the signature and every other
part of such document which purports to be in the handwriting of any
particular person or which the court may reasonably assume to have been signed
by, or to be in the handwriting of, any particular person, is in that person’s
handwriting, and in the case of a document executed or attested, that it was
executed or attested by the person by whom it purports to have been so
executed or attested;
(b) admit the document in evidence, notwithstanding that it is not duly
stamped, if such document is otherwise admissible in evidence;
(c) in a case falling under clause (i) also presume, unless the contrary is
proved, the truth of the contents of such document.] 2[Explanation.—For the
purposes of this section, “document” includes inventories, photographs and
lists certified by a Magistrate under sub-section (1C) of section 110.]
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
140. Offences by companies.—
(1) If the person committing an offence under this Chapter is a company, every
person who at the time the offence was committed was in charge of, and was
responsible to, the company for the conduct of business of the company, as
well as the company, shall be deemed to be guilty of the offence and shall be
liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly: Provided that nothing
contained in this sub-section shall render any such person liable to such
punishment provided in this Chapter if he proves that the offence was
committed without his knowledge or that he exercised all due diligence to
prevent the commission of such offence.
(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1), where an offence
under this Chapter has been committed by a company and it is proved that the
offence has been committed with the consent or connivance of, or is
attributable to any negligence on the part of, any director, manager,
secretary or other officer of the company, such director, manager, secretary
or other officer shall also be deemed to be guilty of that offence and shall
be liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly. Explanation—For
the purposes of this section,—
(a) “company” means a body corporate and includes a firm or other association
of individuals; and
(b) “director,” in relation to a firm, means a partner in the firm.
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
1[140A. Application of section 562 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898,
and of the Probation of Offenders Act, 1958.—
(1) Nothing contained in section 562 of the 2Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898
(5 of 1898), or in the Probation of Offenders Act, 1958 (20 of 1958), shall
apply to a person convicted of an offence under this Act unless that person is
under eighteen years of age.
(2) The provisions of sub-section (1) shall have effect notwithstanding
anything contained in sub-section (3) of section 135.]
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
141. Conveyances and goods in a customs area subject to control of officers of customs.—All the conveyances and goods in a customs area shall, for the purpose of enforcing the provisions of this Act, be subject to the control of officers of customs.
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
142. Recovery of sums due to Government.—
(1) 1[Where any sum payable by any person] under this Act 2[including the
amount required to be paid to the credit of the Central Government under
section 28B] is not paid,—
(a) the proper officer may deduct or may require any other officer of customs
to deduct the amount so payable from any money owing to such person which may
be under the control of the proper officer or such other officer of customs;
or
(b) the 3[Assistant Commissioner of Customs or Deputy Commissioner of Customs]
may recover or may require any other officer of customs to recover the amount
so payable by detaining and selling any goods belonging to such person which
are under the control of the 4[Assistant Commissioner of Customs or Deputy
Commissioner of Customs] or such other officer of customs; or 5[(c) if the
amount cannot be recovered from such person in the manner provided in clause
(a) or clause (b)—
(i) the 4[Assistant Commissioner of Customs or Deputy Commissioner of Customs]
may prepare a certificate signed by him specifying the amount due from such
person and send it to the Collector of the district in which such person owns
any property or resides or carries on his business and the said Collector on
receipt of such certificate shall proceed to recover from such person the
amount specified thereunder as if it were an arrears of land revenue; or
(ii) the proper officer may, on an authorisation by a Commissioner of Customs
and in accordance with the rules made in this behalf, distrain any movable or
immovable property belonging to or under the control of such person, and
detain the same until the amount payable is paid; and in case, any part of the
said amount payable or of the cost of the distress or keeping of the property,
remains unpaid for a period of thirty days next after any such distress, may
cause the said property to be sold and with the proceeds of such sale, may
satisfy the amount payable and the costs including cost of sale remaining
unpaid and shall render the surplus, if any, to such person]: 6[Provided that
where the person (hereinafter referred to as predecessor), by whom any sum
payable under this Act including the amount required to be paid to the credit
of the Central Government under section 28B is not paid, transfers or
otherwise disposes of his business or trade in whole or in part, or effects
any change in the ownership thereof, in consequence of which he is succeeded
in such business or trade by any other person, all goods, materials,
preparations, plants, machineries, vessels, utensils, implements and articles
in the custody or possession of the person so succeeding may also be attached
and sold by the proper officer, after obtaining written approval from the
Commissioner of Customs, for the purposes of recovering the amount so payable
by such predecessor at the time of such transfer or otherwise disposal or
change.]
(2) Where the terms of any bond or other instrument executed under this Act or
any rules or regulations made thereunder provide that any amount due under
such instrument may be recovered in the manner laid down in sub-section (1)
the amount may, without prejudice to any other mode of recovery, be recovered
in accordance with the provisions of that sub-section.
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
143. Power to allow import or export on execution of bonds in certain cases.—
(1) Where this Act or any other law requires anything to be done before a
person can import or export any goods or clear any goods from the control of
officers of customs and the 1[Assistant Commissioner of Customs or Deputy
Commissioner of Customs] is satisfied that having regard to the circumstances
of the case, such thing cannot be done before such import, export or clearance
without detriment to that person, the 1[Assistant Commissioner of Customs or
Deputy Commissioner of Customs], may, notwithstanding anything contained in
this Act or such other law, grant leave for such import, export or clearance
on the person executing a bond in such amount, with such surety or security
and subject to such conditions as the 1[Assistant Commissioner of Customs or
Deputy Commissioner of Customs] approves, for the doing of that thing within
such time after the import, export or clearance as may be specified in the
bond.
(2) If the thing is done within the time specified in the bond, the
1[Assistant Commissioner of Customs or Deputy Commissioner of Customs] shall
cancel the bond as discharged in full and shall, on demand, deliver it, so
cancelled, to the person who has executed or who is entitled to receive it;
and in such a case that person shall not be liable to any penalty provided in
this Act or, as the case may be, in such other law for the contravention of
the provisions thereof relating to the doing of that thing.
(3) If the thing is not done within the time specified in the bond, the
1[Assistant Commissioner of Customs or Deputy Commissioner of Customs] shall,
without prejudice to any other action that may be taken under this Act or any
other law for the time being in force, be entitled to proceed upon the bond in
accordance with law.
390 [ 143A Duty deferment. —
(1) When any material is imported under an import licence belonging to the
category of Advance Licence granted under the 391 Imports and Exports
(Control) Act, 1947 (18 of 1947), subject to an obligation to export the goods
as are specified in the said Licence within the period specified therein, the
392 [Assistant Commissioner of Customs or Deputy Commissioner of Customs] may,
notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, permit clearance of such
material without payment of duty leviable thereon.
(2) The permission for clearance without payment of duty under sub-section (1)
shall be subject to the following conditions, that is to say—
(a) the duty payable on the material imported shall be adjusted against the
drawback of the duty payable under this Act under any other law for the time
being in force on the export of goods specified in the said Advance Licence;
and
(b) where the duty is not so adjusted either for the reason that the goods are
not exported within the period specified in the said Advance Licence, or
within such extended period not exceeding six months as the 392 [Assistant
Commissioner of Customs or Deputy Commissioner of Customs] may, on sufficient
cause being shown, allow, or for any other sufficient reason, the importer
shall, notwithstanding anything contained in section 28, be liable to pay the
amount of duty not so adjusted together with simple interest thereon at the
rate of twelve per cent. per annum from the date the said permission for
clearance is given to the date of payment.
(3) While permitting clearance under sub-section (1), the 392 [Assistant
Commissioner of Customs or Deputy Commissioner of Customs] may require the
importer to execute a bond with such surety or security as he thinks fit for
complying with the conditions specified in sub-section (2)].
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
144. Power to take samples.—
(1) The proper officer may, on the entry or clearance of any goods or at any
time while such goods are being passed through the customs area, take samples
of such goods in the presence of the owner thereof, for examination or
testing, or for ascertaining the value thereof, or for any other purpose of
this Act.
(2) After the purpose for which a sample was taken is carried out, such sample
shall, if practicable, be restored to the owner, but if the owner fails to
take delivery of the sample within three months of the date on which the
sample was taken, it may be disposed of in such manner as the 1[Commissioner
of Customs] may direct.
(3) No duty shall be chargeable on any sample of goods taken under this
section which is consumed or destroyed during the course of any test or
examination thereof, if such duty amounts to five rupees or more.
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
145. Owner, etc., to perform operations incidental to compliance with customs law.—All operations necessary for making any goods available for examination by the proper officer or for facilitating such examination shall be performed by, or at the expense of, the owner, importer or exporter of the goods, as the case may be.
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
146. Customs house agents to be licensed.—
(1) No person shall carry on business as an agent relating to the entry or
departure of a conveyance or the import or export of goods at any customs
station unless such person holds a licence granted in this behalf in
accordance with the regulations.
(2) The Board may make regulations for the purpose of carrying out the
provisions of this section and, in particular, such regulation may provide
for—
(a) the authority by which a licence may be granted under this section and the
period of validity of any such licence;
(b) the form of the licence and the fee payable therefor;
(c) the qualifications of persons who may apply for a licence and the
qualifications of persons to be employed by a licensee to assist him in his
work as an agent;
(d) the restrictions and conditions (including the furnishing of security by
the licensee) subject to which a licence may be granted;
(e) the circumstances in which a licence may be suspended or revoked; and
(f) the appeals, if any, against an order of suspension or revocation of a
licence, and the period within which such appeals shall be filed.
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
1[146A. Appearance by authorized representative.—
(1) Any person who is entitled or required to appear before an officer of
customs or the Appellate Tribunal in connection with any proceedings under
this Act, otherwise than when required under section 108 to attend personally
for examination on oath or affirmation, may, subject to the other provisions
of this section, appear by an authorised representative.
(2) For the purpose of this section, “authorised representative” means a
person authorised referred to in sub-section (1) to appear on this behalf,
being—
(a) his relative or regular employee; or
(b) a custom house agent licensed under section 146; or
(c) any legal practitioner who is entitled to practise in any civil court in
India; or
(d) any person who has acquired such qualifications as the Central Government
may specify by rules made in this behalf.
(3) Notwithstanding anything contained in this section, no person who was a
member of the Indian Customs and Central Excise Service—Group A and has
retired or resigned from such service after having served for not less than
three years in any capacity in that service shall be entitled to appear as an
authorised representative in any proceedings before an officer of customs for
a period of two years from the date of his retirement or resignation, as the
case may be.
(4) No person—
(a) who has dismissed or removed from Government service; or
(b) who is convicted of an offence connected with any proceeding under this
Act, 2the Central Excises and Salt Act, 1944 (1 of 1944), or the 3Gold
(Control) Act, 1968 (45 of 1968); or
(c) who has become an insolvent, shall be qualified to represent any person
under sub-section (1), for all times in the case of a person referred to in
clause (a), and for such time as the 4[Commissioner of Customs] or the
competent authority under the 2Central Excises and Salt Act, 1944, or the
2Gold (Control) Act, 1968, as the case may be, may, by order, determine in the
case of a person referred to in clause (b) and for the period during which the
insolvency continues in the case of a person referred to in clause (c).
(5) If any person,—
(a) who is a legal practitioner, is found guilty of misconduct in his
professional capacity by any authority entitled to institute proceedings
against him, an order passed by that authority shall have effect in relation
to his right to appear before an officer of customs or the Appellate Tribunal
as it has in relation to his right to practise as a legal practitioner;
(b) who is not a legal practitioner, is found guilty of misconduct in
connection with any proceedings under this Act by such authority as may be
specified by rules made in this behalf, that authority may direct that he
shall thenceforth be disqualified to represent any person under sub-section
(1).
(6) Any order or direction under clause (b) of sub-section (4) or clause (b)
of sub-section (5) shall be subject to the following conditions, namely:—
(a) no such order or direction shall be made in respect of any person unless
he had been given a reasonable opportunity of being heard;
(b) any person against whom any such order or direction is made may, within
one month of the making of the order or direction, appeal to the Board to have
the order or direction cancelled; and
(c) no such order or direction shall take effect until the expiration of one
month from the making thereof, or, where an appeal has been preferred, until
the disposal of the appeal.]
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
147. Liability of principal and agent.—
(1) Where this Act requires anything to be done by the owner, importer or
exporter of any goods, it may be done on his behalf by his agent.
(2) Any such thing done by an agent of the owner, importer or exporter of any
goods shall, unless the contrary is proved, be deemed to have been done with
the knowledge and consent of such owner, importer or exporter, so that in any
proceedings under this Act, the owner, importer or exporter of the goods shall
also be liable as if the thing had been done by himself.
(3) When any person is expressly or impliedly authorised by the owner,
importer or exporter of any goods to be his agent in respect of such goods for
all or any of the purposes of this Act, such person shall, without prejudice
to the liability of the owner, importer or exporter of such goods for such
purposes: Provided that where any duty is not levied or is short-levied or
erroneously refunded on account of any reason other than any wilful act,
negligence or default of the agent, such duty shall not be recovered from the
agent unless in the opinion of 1[Assistant Commissioner of Customs or Deputy
Commissioner of Customs] the same cannot be recovered from the owner, importer
or exporter.
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
148. Liability of agent appointed by the person in charge of a conveyance.—
(1) Where this Act requires anything to be done by the person in charge of a
conveyance, it may be done on his behalf by his agent.
(2) An agent appointed by the person in charge of a conveyance and any person
who represents himself to any officer of customs as an agent of any such
person in charge, and is accepted as such by that officer, shall be liable for
the fulfilment in respect of the matter in question of all obligations imposed
on such person in charge by or under this Act or any law for the time being in
force, and to penalties and confiscations which may be incurred in respect of
that matter.
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
149. Amendment of documents.—Save as otherwise provided in sections 30 and 41, the proper officer may, in his discretion, authorise any document, after it has been presented in the customs house to be amended: Provided that no amendment of a bill of entry or shipping bill or bill of export shall be so authorised to be amended after the imported goods have been cleared for home consumption or deposited in a warehouse, or the export goods have been exported, except on the basis of documentary evidence which was in existence at the time the goods were cleared, deposited or exported, as the case may be.
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
150. Procedure for sale of goods and application of sale proceeds.—
(1) Where any goods not being confiscated goods are to be sold under any
provisions of this Act, they shall, after notice to the owner thereof, be sold
by public auction or by tender or with the consent of the owner in any other
manner.
(2) The proceeds of any such sale shall be applied—-
(a) firstly to the payment of the expenses of the sale,
(b) next to the payment of the freight and other charges, if any, payable in
respect of the goods sold, to the carrier, if notice of such charges has been
given to the person having custody of the goods,
(c) next to the payment of the duty, if any, on the goods sold,
(d) next to the payment of the charges in respect of the goods sold due to the
person having the custody of the goods,
(e) next to the payment of any amount due from the owner of the goods to the
Central Government under the provisions of this Act or any other law relating
to customs, and the balance, if any, shall be paid to the owner of the goods.
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
151. Certain officers required to assist officers of customs.—The following officers are hereby empowered and required to assist officers of customs in the execution of this Act, namely:—
(a) officers of the Central Excise Department;
(b) officers of the Navy;
(c) officers of Police;
(d) officers of Central or State Governments employed at any port or airport;
(e) such other officers of the Central or State Government or a local
authority as are specified by the Central Government in this behalf by
notification in the Official Gazette.
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
1[151A. Instructions to officers of customs.—The Board may, if it considers it
necessary or expedient so to do for the purpose of uniformity in the
classification of goods or with respect to the levy of duty thereon, issue
such orders, instructions and directions to officers of customs as it may deem
fit and such officers of customs and all the other persons employed in the
execution of this Act shall observe and follow such orders, instructions and
directions of the Board: Provided that no such orders, instructions or
directions shall be issued—
(a) so as to require any such officer of customs to make a particular
assessment or to dispose of a particular case in a particular manner; or
(b) so as to interfere with the discretion of the Collector of Customs
(Appeals) in the exercise of his appellate functions.]
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
152. Delegation of powers.—The Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, direct that subject to such conditions, if any, as may be specified in the notification—
(a) any power exercisable by the Board under this Act shall be exercisable
also by 1[a 2[Chief Commissioner of Customs] or a 3[Commissioner of Customs]]
empowered in this behalf by the Central Government;
(b) any power exercisable by a 3[Commissioner of Customs] under this Act may
be exercisable also by a 4[Joint Commissioner of Customs] or an 5[Assistant
Commissioner of Customs or Deputy Commissioner of Customs] empowered in this
behalf by the Central Government;
(c) any power exercisable by a 4[Joint Commissioner of Customs] under this Act
may be exercisable also by an 5[Assistant Commissioner of Customs or Deputy
Commissioner of Customs] empowered in this behalf by the Central Government;
(d) any power exercisable by an 6[Assistant Commissioner of Customs or Deputy
Commissioner of Customs] under this Act may be exercisable also by a gazetted
officer of customs empowered in this behalf by the Board.
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
153. Service of order, decision, etc.—Any order or decision passed or any summons or notice issued under this Act, shall be served,—
(a) by tendering the order, decision, summons or notice or sending it by
registered post to the person for whom it is intended or to his agent; or
(b) if the order, decision, summons of notice cannot be served in the manner
provided in clause (a), by affixing it on the notice board of the customs
house.
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
154. Correction, clerical errors, etc.—Clerical or arithmetical mistakes in any decision or order passed by the Central Government, the Board or any officer of customs under this Act, or errors arising therein from any accidental slip or omission may, at any time, be corrected by the Central Government, the Board or such officer of customs or the successor in office of such offic­er, as the case may be.
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
1[154A. Rounding off of duty, etc.—The amount of duty, interest, penalty, fine
or any other sum payable, and the amount of refund, drawback or any other sum
due, under the provisions of this Act, shall be rounded off to the nearest
rupee and, for this purpose, where such amount contains a part of a rupee
consisting of paise then, if such part is fifty paise or more, it shall be
increased to one rupee and if such part is less than fifty paise it shall be
ignored.]
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
1[154B. Publication of information respecting persons in certain cases.—
(1) If the Central Government is of opinion that it is necessary or expedient
in the public interest to publish the names of any person and any other
particulars relating to any proceedings or prosecutions under this Act in
respect of such person, it may cause to be published such names and
particulars in such manner as it thinks fit.
(2) No publication under this section shall be made in relation to any penalty
imposed under this Act until the time for presenting an appeal to the
Commissioner (Appeals) under section 128 or the Appellate Tribunal under
section 129A, as the case may be, has expired without an appeal having been
presented or the appeal, if presented, has been disposed of. Explanation.—In
the case of a firm, company or other association of persons, the names of the
partners of the firm, directors, managing agents, secretaries and treasurers
or managers of the company, or the members of the association, as the case may
be, may also be published if, in the opinion of the Central Government,
circumstances of the case justify it.]
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
155. Protection of action taken under the Act.—
(1) No suit, prosecution or other legal proceedings shall lie against the
Central Government or any officer of the Government or a local authority for
anything which is done, or intended to be done in good faith, in pursuance of
this Act or the rules or regulations.
(2) No proceeding other than a suit shall be commenced against the Central
Government or any officer of the Government or a local authority for anything
purporting to be done in pursuance of this Act without giving the Central
Government or such officer a month’s previous notice in writing of the
intended proceeding and of the cause thereof, or after the expiration of three
months from the accrual of such cause.
156 General power to make rules. —
(1) Without prejudice to any power to make rules contained elsewhere in this
Act, the Central Government may make rules consistent with this Act generally
to carry out the purposes of this Act.
(2) In particular and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing
power, such rules may provide for all or any of the following matters,
namely:—
408 [(a) the manner of determining the transaction value of the imported goods
and export goods under sub-section (1) of section 14;]
(b) the conditions subject to which accessories of and spare parts and
maintenance and repairing implements for, any article shall be chargeable at
the same rate of duty as that article; 409 [***]
(d) the detention and confiscation of goods the importation of which is
prohibited and the conditions, if any, to be fulfilled before such detention
and confiscation and the information, notices and security to be given and the
evidence requisite for the purposes of such detention or confiscation and the
mode of verification of such evidence;
(e) the reimbursement by an informant to any public officer of all expenses
and damages incurred in respect of any detention of any goods made on his
information and of any proceedings consequent on such detention;
(f) the information required in respect of any goods mentioned in a shipping
bill or bill of export which are not exported or which are exported and are
afterwards re-landed;
410 [(g) the publication, subject to such conditions as may be specified
therein, of names and other particulars of persons who have been found guilty
of contravention of any of the provisions of this Act or the rules.]
411 [(h) the amount to be paid 3 [for compounding and the manner of
compounding] under sub-section (3) of section 137.]
157 General power to make regulations. —
(1) Without prejudice to any power to make regulations contained elsewhere in
this Act, the Board may make regulations consistent with this Act and the
rules, generally to carry out the purposes of this Act.
(2) In particular and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing
power, such regulations may provide for all or any of the following matters,
namely:—
(a) the form of a bill of entry, shipping bill, bill of export, import
manifest, import report, export manifest, export report, 412 [bill of
transhipment, declaration for transhipment], boat-note and bill of coastal
goods;
413 [(ai) the manner of export of goods, relinquishment of title to the goods
and abandoning them to customs and destruction or rendering of goods
commercially valueless in the presence of the proper officer under clause (d)
of sub-section (1) of section 26A;]
413 [(aii) the form and manner of making application for refund of duty under
sub-section (2) of section 26A;]
414 [(aa) the 415 [form and manner] in which an application for refund shall
be made under section 27;]
(b) the conditions subject to which the transhipment of all or any goods under
sub-section (3) of section 54, the transportation of all or any goods under
section 56 and the removal of warehoused goods from one warehouse to another
under section 67, may be allowed without payment of duty;
(c) the conditions subject to which any manufacturing process or other
operations may be carried on in a warehouse under section 65.
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
158. Provisions with respect to rules and regulations.—
(1) All rules and regulations made under this Act shall be published in the
Official Gazette.
(2) Any rule or regulation which the Central Government or the Board is
empowered to make under this Act may provide—
(i) for the levy of fees in respect of applications, amendment of documents,
furnishing of duplicates of documents, issue of certificates, and supply of
statistics, and for rendering of any services by officers of customs under
this Act;
(ii) that any person who contravenes any provision of a rule or regulation or
abets such contravention or any person who fails to comply with any provision
of a rule or regulation with which it was his duty to comply, shall be
liable,—
(a) in the case of contravention or failure to comply with a rule, to a
penalty which may extend to five hundred rupees;
(b) in the case of contravention or failure to comply with a regulation, to a
penalty which may extend to two hundred rupees.
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
1[159. Rules, certain notifications and orders to be laid before
Parliament.—Every rule or regulation made under this Act, every notification
issued under sections 11, 11B, 11H, 11-I, 11K, 11N 14, 25, 28A, 43, 66, 69,
70, 74, 75, 76, 98, 98A, 101 and 123 and every order made under sub-section
(2) of section 25, other than an order relating to goods of strategic, secret,
individual or personal nature, shall be laid, as soon as may be after it is
made or issued, before each House of Parliament, while it is in session, for a
total period of thirty days which may be comprised in one session, or in two
or more successive sessions, and if, before the expiry of the session,
immediately following the session or the successive sessions aforesaid, both
Houses agree in making any modification in the rule or regulation or
notification or order, or both Houses agree that the rule or regulation should
not be made or notification or order shall thereafter have effect only in such
modified form or be of no effect, as the case may be; so however, that any
such modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity of
anything previously done under that rule or regulation or notifi­cation or
order.]
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
1[159A. Effect of amendments, etc., of rules, regulations, notifications or
orders.—Where any rule, regulation, notification or order made or issued under
this Act or any notification or order issued under such rule or regulation, is
amended, repealed, superseded or rescinded, then, unless a different intention
appears, such amendment, repeal, supersession or rescinding shall not—
(a) revive anything not in force or existing at the time at which the
amendment, repeal, supersession or rescinding takes effect; or
(b) affect the previous operation of any rule, regulation, notification or
order so amended, repealed, superseded or rescinded or anything duly done or
suffered thereunder; or
(c) affect any right, privilege, obligation or liability acquired, accured or
incurred under any rule, regulation, notification or order so amended,
repealed, superseded or rescinded; or
(d) affect any penalty, forfeiture or punishment incurred in respect of any
offence committed under or in violation of any rule, regulation, notification
or order so amended, repealed, superseded or rescinded; or
(e) affect any investigation, legal proceeding or remedy in respect of any
such right, privilege, obligation, liability, penalty, forfeiture or
punishment as aforesaid, and any such investigation, legal proceeding or
remedy may be instituted, continued or enforced and any such penalty,
forfeiture or punishment may be imposed as if the rule, regulation,
notification or order, as the case may be, had not been amended, repealed,
superseded or rescinded.]
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
160. Repeal and savings.—
(1) The enactment specified in the Schedule are hereby repealed to the extent
mentioned in the fourth column thereof.
(2) In the Indian Tariff Act, 1934 (32 of 1934)—
(a) for section 2, the following section shall be substituted, namely:— “2.
Duties specified in the Schedules to be levied.—The rates at which duties of
customs shall be levied under the Customs Act, 1962, are specified in the
First and Second Schedules.”;
(b) sections 5 and 6 shall stand repealed,
(3) Notwithstanding the repeal of any enactment by this section,—
(a) any notification, rule, regulation, order or notice issued or any
appointment or declaration made or any licence, permission or exemption
granted or any assessment made, confiscation adjudged or any duty levied or
any penalty or fine imposed or any forfeiture, cancellation or discharge of
any bond ordered or any other thing done or any other action taken under any
repealed enactment shall, so far as it is not inconsistent with the provisions
of this Act, be deemed to have been done or taken under the corresponding
provision of this Act;
(b) any document referring to any enactment hereby repealed shall be construed
as referring to this Act or to the corresponding provisions of this Act.
(4) This Act shall apply to all goods which are subject to the control of
customs at the commencement of this Act notwithstanding that the goods were
imported before such commencement.
(5) Where the period prescribed for any application, appeal, revision or other
proceeding under any repealed enactment had expired on or before the
commencement of this Act, nothing in this Act shall be construed as enabling
any such application, appeal or revision to be made or a proceeding to be
instituted under this Act by reason only of the fact that a longer period
therefor is prescribed, or provision is made for extension of time in suitable
cases by the appropriate authority.
(6) The provisions of section 65 shall apply to goods warehoused before the
commencement of this Act if the operations permissible under that section were
carried on after such commencement.
(7) Any duty or penalty payable under any repealed enactment may be recovered
in a manner provided in this Act but without prejudice to any action already
taken for the recovery of such duty or penalty under the repealed enactment.
(8) The mention of particular matters in sub-sections (4), (5), (6) and (7)
shall not be held to prejudice or affect the general application of section 6
of the General Clauses Act, 1897 (10 of 1897), with regard to the effect of
repeals.
(9) Nothing in this Act shall affect any law for the time being in force
relating to the constitution and powers of any Port authority in a major port
as defined in the Indian Ports Act, 1908 (15 of 1908).
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962
161. Removal of difficulties.—If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of this Act, particularly in relation to the transition from the enactments repealed by this Act to the provisions of this Act, the Central Government may, by general or special order, do anything not inconsistent with such provisions which appears to be necessary or expedient for the purpose of removing the difficulty.
THE CUSTOMS ACT, 1962 THE SCHEDULE (See section 160) REPEALS Year No. Short
title Extent of repeal 1 2 3 4 1878 8 The Sea Customs Act The whole 1896 8 The
Inland Bonded Warehouse Act The whole 1924 19 The Land Customs Act The whole
1934 22 The Aircraft Act Section 16.
1\. Subs. by Act 44 of 1980, sec. 50 and Fifth Sch., Pt. I, for clause (1)
(w.e.f. 11-10-1982).
2\. Subs. by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 51, for “Collector (Appeals)” (w.e.f.
26-5-1995).
3\. Subs. by Act 32 of 2003, sec. 104, for “Gold (Control)” (w.e.f.
14-5-2003).
4\. Subs. by Act 54 of 1963, sec. 5, for certain words (w.e.f. 1-1-1964).
5\. Subs. by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 51, for clause (7A) (w.e.f. 26-5-1995).
Earlier clause (7A) was inserted by Act 44 of 1980, sec. 50 and Fifth Sch.,
Pt. I (w.e.f. 11-10-1982).
6\. Subs. by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 51, for clause (8) (w.e.f. 26-5-1995).
Earlier clause (8) was substituted by Act 18 of 1992, sec. 109 (w.e.f.
14-5-1992).
7\. Ins. by Act 11 of 1983, sec. 46 (w.e.f. 13-5-1983).
8\. Ins. by Act 40 of 1991, sec. 9 (w.e.f. 20-9-1991).
9\. Subs. by Act 25 of 1978, sec. 2, for certain words (w.e.f. 1-7-1978).
10\. Ins. by Act 49 of 2005, sec. 30 and Sch., Pt. VI-1 (w.e.f. 28-12-2005).
11\. Subs. by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 50, for “Collector of Customs” (w.e.f.
26-5-1995).
12\. Subs. by Act 22 of 2007, sec. 94, for “sub-section (1) of section 14”
(w.e.f. 11-5-2007).
13\. Subs. by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 52, for section 3 (w.e.f. 26-5-1995).
14\. Ins. by Act, 27 of 1999, sec. 101 (w.e.f. 11-5-1999).
15\. Subs. by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 52, for section 4 (w.e.f. 26-5-1995).
16\. Subs. by Act 20 of 2002, sec. 117, for "Central Government" (w.e.f.
11-5-2002).
17\. Subs. by Act 20 of 2002, sec. 117, for "Central Government may authorise
the Board" (w.e.f. 11-5-2002).
18\. Subs. by Act 27 of 1999, sec. 100, for “Deputy or Assistant Commissioner
of Customs” (w.e.f. 11-5-1999 ).
19\. Subs. by Act 44 of 1980, sec. 50, Fifth Sch., Pt. I, for “an Appellate
Collector of Customs” (w.e.f. 11-10-1982).
20\. Subs. by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 50, for "Collector (Appeals)" (w.e.f.
26-5-1995).
21\. Section 7 renumbered as sub-section (1) thereof by Act 32 of 2003, sec.
105 (w.e.f. 14-5-2003).
22\. Subs. by Act 32 of 2003, sec. 105, for “Central Government” (w.e.f.
14-5-2003).
23\. Ins. by Act 11 of 1983, sec. 47 (w.e.f. 13-5-1983).
24\. Ins. by Act 32 of 2003, sec. 105 (w.e.f. 14-5-2003).
25\. Subs. by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 50, for “Collector of Customs” (w.e.f.
26-5-1995).
26\. Subs. by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 50, for “Collector of Customs” (w.e.f.
26-5-1995).
27\. Subs. by Act 51 of 1975, sec. 13, for “Indian Tariff Act, 1934 (32 of
1934)” (w.e.f. 2-8-1976).
28\. Subs. by Act 30 of 1963, sec. 2, for sub-section (2) (w.e.f. 1-10-1963).
29\. Subs. by Act 22 of 2007, sec. 95, for section 14. Earlier section 14 was
amended by Act 20 of 1966, sec. 2 (w.e.f. 31-8-1966), by Act 51 of 1975, sec.
13 (w.e.f. 2-8-1976), by Act 25 of 1978, sec. 3 (w.e.f. 1-7-1978), by Act 27
of 1988, sec. 2 (w.e.f. 16-8-1988), by Act 20 of 2002, sec. 118 (w.e.f.
11-5-2002). Section 14, before substitution, stood as under:—
30\. Subs. by Act 20 of 1966, sec. 3, for “The rate of duty” (w.e.f.
31-8-1966).
31\. The words “, rate of exchange” omitted by Act 25 of 1978, sec. 4 (w.e.f.
1-7-1978).
32\. Subs. by Act 32 of 2003, sec. 106, for “the goods are actually removed
from the warehouse” (w.e.f. 14-5-2003).
33\. Subs. by Act 33 of 1996, sec. 59, for the proviso (w.e.f. 28-9-1996).
34\. Sub-section (3) omitted by Act 25 of 1978, sec. 4 (w.e.f. 1-7-1978).
Earlier sub-section (3) was inserted by Act 20 of 1966, sec. 3 (w.e.f.
31-8-1966).
35\. Subs. by Act 23 of 1986, sec. 50, for sub-section (1) (w.e.f. 13-5-1986).
36\. Ins. by Act 29 of 2006, sec. 20 (w.e.f. 13-7-2006).
37\. Subs. by Act 56 of 1974, sec. 3 and Second Sch., for "the finally
assessed" (w.e.f. 20-12-1974).
38\. Ins. by Act 29 of 2006, sec. 21 (w.e.f. 13-7-2006).
39\. Subs. by Act 32 of 1994, sec. 60, for section 20 (w.e.f. 13-5-1994).
40\. Provisos and Explanations omitted by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 53 (w.e.f.
26-5-1995).
41\. Subs. by Act 27 of 1999, sec. 100, for “Assistant Commissioner of
Customs” (w.e.f. 11-5-1999). Earlier the words “Assistant Commissioner of
Customs” were substituted by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 50, for the words “Assistant
Collector of Customs” (w.e.f. 26-5-1995).
42\. Subs. by Act 11 of 1983, sec. 48, for “where it is shown” (w.e.f.
13-5-1983).
43\. Subs. by Act 27 of 1999, sec. 100, for “Assistant Commissioner of
Customs” (w.e.f. 11-5-1999). Earlier the words “Assistant Commissioner of
Customs” were substituted by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 50, for the words “Assistant
Collector of Customs” (w.e.f. 26-5-1995).
44\. Ins. by Act 11 of 1983, sec. 48 (w.e.f. 13-5-1983).
45\. Subs. by Act 32 of 1994, sec. 60, for sub-section (2) (w.e.f. 13-5-1994).
46\. Ins. by Act 21 of 2006, sec. 58 (w.e.f. 18-4-2006).
47\. Subs. by Act 32 of 2003, sec. 107, for sub-section (2) (w.e.f.
14-5-2003). Earlier sub-section (2) was substituted by Act 27 of 1999, sec.
102 (w.e.f. 11-5-1999).
48\. Ins. by Act 20 of 2002, sec. 119 (w.e.f. 11-5-2002).
49\. Ins. by Act 11 of 1983, sec. 49 (w.e.f. 13-5-1983).
50\. Ins. by Act 21 of 1998, sec. 99 (w.e.f. 1-8-1998).
51\. Ins. by Act 20 of 2002, sec. 119 (w.e.f. 11-5-2002).
52\. Ins. by Act 32 of 2003, sec. 107 (w.e.f. 14-5-2003).
53\. Ins. by Act 33 of 2009, sec. 85 (w.e.f. 19-8-2009).
54\. Subs. by Act 40 of 1991, sec. 10, for section 27 (w.e.f. 20-9-1991).
55\. Subs. by Act 55 of 1991, sec. 2, for “duty” (w.e.f. 23-12-1991). tc" 6.
Subs. by Act 55 of 1991, sec. 2, for “duty” (w.e.f. 23-12-1991)."
56\. Subs. by Act 27 of 1999, sec. 100, for “Assistant Commissioner of
Customs” (w.e.f. 11-5-1999). Earlier the words “Assistant Commissioner of
Customs” were substituted by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 50, for the words “Assistant
Collector of Customs” (w.e.f. 26-5-1995). tc" 7. Subs. by Act 27 of 1999, sec.
100, for “Assistant Commissioner of Customs” (w.e.f. 11-5-1999). Earlier the
words “Assistant Commissioner of Customs” were substituted by Act 22 of 1995,
sec. 50, for the words “Assistant Collector of Customs” (w.e.f. 26-5-1995)."
57\. Subs. by Act 55 of 1991, sec. 2, for “duty” (w.e.f. 23-12-1991). tc "1.
Subs. by Act 55 of 1991, sec. 2, for “duty” (w.e.f. 23-12-1991)."
58\. Subs. by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 54, for “in such form” (w.e.f. 26-5-1995).
tc" 2. Subs. by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 54, for “in such form” (w.e.f.
26-5-1995)."
59\. Ins. by Act 33 of 1996, sec. 60 (w.e.f. 28-9-1996). tc" 3. Ins. by Act 33
of 1996, sec. 60 (w.e.f. 28-9-1996)."
60\. Ins. by Act 22 of 2007, sec. 96 (w.e.f. 11-5-2007). tc" 4. Ins. by Act 22
of 2007, sec. 96 (w.e.f. 11-5-2007)."
61\. Explanation renumbered as Explanation I by Act 21 of 1998, sec. 100
(w.e.f. 1-8-1998). tc" 5. Explanation renumbered as Explanation I by Act 21 of
1998, sec. 100 (w.e.f. 1-8-1998)."
62\. Ins. by Act 21 of 1998, sec. 100 (w.e.f. 1-8-1998). tc" 6. Ins. by Act 21
of 1998, sec. 100 (w.e.f. 1-8-1998)."
63\. Subs. by Act 27 of 1999, sec. 100, for “Assistant Commissioner of
Customs” (w.e.f. 11-5-1999). Earlier the words “Assistant Commissioner of
Customs” were substituted by Act 22 of 1995,
64\. Ins. by Act 32 of 2003, sec. 108 (w.e.f. 14-5-2003). tc" 2. Ins. by Act
32 of 2003, sec. 108 (w.e.f. 14-5-2003)."
65\. Ins. by Act 49 of 2005, sec. 30 and Sch., Pt. VI-2 (w.e.f. 28-12-2005).
tc" 3. Ins. by Act 49 of 2005, sec. 30 and Sch., Pt. VI-2 (w.e.f.
28-12-2005)."
66\. Ins. by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 55 (w.e.f. 26-5-1995).
67\. Subs. by Act 14 of 2001, sec. 102, for "not below ten per cent." (w.e.f.
11-5-2001).
68\. Subs. by Act 10 of 2000, sec. 78, for “by the Board” (w.e.f. 12-5-2000).
69\. Ins. by Act 49 of 2005, sec. 30 and Sch., Pt. VI-3.
70\. Subs. by Act 27 of 1999, sec. 100, for “Assistant Commissioner of
Customs” (w.e.f. 11-5-1999).
71\. Subs. by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 56, for section 28 (w.e.f. 26-5-1995).
72\. Second and third provisos omitted by Act 32 of 2003, sec. 109 (w.e.f.
14-5-2003). Earlier second and third provisos were inserted by Act 10 of 2000,
sec. 79 (w.e.f. 12-5-2000).
73\. Ins. by Act 29 of 2006, sec. 22 (w.e.f. 13-7-2006).
74\. Added by Act 29 of 2006, sec. 22 (w.e.f. 13-7-2006).
75\. Ins. by Act 14 of 2001, sec. 103 (w.e.f. 11-5-2001).
76\. Ins. by Act 25 of 1978, sec. 7 (w.e.f. 1-7-1978).
77\. Section 28A re-numbered as sub-section (1), thereof by Act 29 of 1988,
sec. 3 (w.e.f. 1-7-1988).
78\. Subs. by Act 40 of 1991, sec. 11, for sub-section (2) (w.e.f. 20-9-1991).
Earlier sub-section (2) was inserted by Act 29 of 1988, sec. 3 (w.e.f.
1-7-1988).
79\. Subs. by Act 27 of 1999, sec. 100, for “Assistant Commissioner of
Customs” (w.e.f. 11-5-1999). Earlier the words “Assistant Commissioner of
Customs” were substituted by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 50, for the words “Assistant
Collector of Customs” (w.e.f. 26-5-1995).
80\. Ins. by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 57 (w.e.f. 26-5-1995).
81\. Section 28AA renumbered as sub-section (1) thereof by Act 14 of 2001,
sec. 104 (w.e.f. 11-5-2001).
82\. Subs. by Act 33 of 1996, sec. 61, for “Where a person” (w.e.f.
28-9-1996).
83\. Subs. by Act 10 of 2000, sec. 80, for certain words (w.e.f. 12-5-2000).
84\. Subs. by Act 20 of 2002, sec. 120, for “eighteen per cent.” (w.e.f.
11-5-2002).
85\. Ins. by Act 49 of 2005, sec. 30 and Sch., Pt. VI-4 (w.e.f. 28-12-2005).
86\. Ins. by Act 14 of 2001, sec. 104 (w.e.f. 11-5-2001).
87\. Ins. by Act 33 of 1996, sec. 62 (w.e.f. 28-9-1996).
88\. Subs. by Act 14 of 2001, sec. 105, for sub-section (1) (w.e.f.
11-5-2001).
89\. Subs. by Act 20 of 2002, sec. 121, for “eighteen per cent.” (w.e.f.
11-5-2002).
90\. Subs. by Act 14 of 2001, sec. 105, for sub-section (2) (w.e.f.
11-5-2001).
91\. Ins. by Act 49 of 2005, sec. 30 and Sch., Pt. VI-5 (w.e.f. 28-12-2005).
92\. Ins. by Act 40 of 1991, sec. 12 (w.e.f. 20-9-1991).
93\. Ins. by Act 49 of 2005, sec. 30 and Sch., Pt. VI-6 (w.e.f. 28-12-2005).
94\. Subs. by Act 10 of 2000, sec. 82, for certain words (w.r.e.f. 20-9-1991).
95\. Subs. by Act 10 of 2000, sec. 82, for sub-section (2) (w.r.e.f.
20-9-1991).
96\. Ins. by Act 29 of 2006, sec. 23 (w.e.f. 13-7-2006).
97\. Subs. by Act 18 of 2005, sec. 65, for clause (c) (w.e.f. 13-5-2005).
Clause (c), before substitution, stood as under: tc "4. Subs. by Act 18 of
2005, sec. 65, for clause (c) (w.e.f. 13-5-2005). Clause (c), before
substitution, stood as under\:"
98\. Ins. by Act 22 of 2007, sec. 97 (w.e.f. 11-5-2007). tc "1. Ins. by Act 22
of 2007, sec. 97 (w.e.f. 11-5-2007)."
99\. Subs. by Act 18 of 2005, sec. 65, for "Authority for Advance Rulings"
(w.e.f. 13-5-2005). tc" 2. Subs. by Act 18 of 2005, sec. 65, for \"Authority
for Advance Rulings\" (w.e.f. 13-5-2005)."
100\. Subs. by Act 32 of 2003, sec. 110, for clause (h) (w.e.f. 14-5-2003).
tc" 3. Subs. by Act 32 of 2003, sec. 110, for clause (h) (w.e.f. 14-5-2003)."
101\. 28F ins. by Act 27 of 1999, sec. 103 (w.e.f. 11-5-1999).
102\. Subs. by Act 18 of 2005, sec. 66, for "Authority for Advance Rulings"
(w.e.f. 13-5-2005).
103\. Ins. by Act 33 of 2009, sec. 86 (w.e.f. 15-9-2009, vide G.S.R. 676(E),
dated 14th September, 2009).
104\. Ins. by Act 32 of 2003, sec. 111 (w.e.f. 14-5-2003).
105\. Ins. by Act 18 of 2005, sec. 67 (w.e.f. 13-5-2005).
106\. The words "except in the case of a resident applicant" omitted by Act 20
of 2002, sec. 122 (w.e.f. 11-5-2002).
107\. Subs. by Act 32 of 2003, sec. 112, for sub-section (1) (w.e.f.
14-5-2003). Earlier sub-section (1) was substituted by Act 27 of 1999, sec.
104 (w.e.f. 11-5-1999).
108\. Proviso omitted by the Finance (No. 2) Act, 2004 (23 of 2004), sec. 66
(w.e.f. 10-9-2004). The proviso, before omission, stood as under:
109\. Subs. by Act 27 of 1999, sec. 100, for “Assistant Commissioner of
Customs” (w.e.f. 11-5-1999). Earlier the words “Assistant Commissioner of
Customs” were substituted by Act 22 of 1995, sec 50, for the words “Assistant
Collector of Customs” (w.e.f. 26-5-1995).
110\. Subs. by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 50, for “Collector of Customs” (w.e.f.
26-5-1995).
111\. Ins. by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 58 (w.e.f. 26-5-1995).
112\. Subs. by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 50, for “Collector of Customs” (w.e.f.
26-5-1995).
113\. Subs. by Act 25 of 1978, sec. 8, for "such manifest or report" (w.e.f.
11-7-1978).
114\. Subs. by Act 33 of 1996, sec. 63, for the second proviso (w.e.f.
28-9-1996).
115\. Section 47 re-numbered as sub-section (1) of that section by Act 55 of
1991, sec. 3 (w.e.f. 23-12-1991).
116\. Ins. by Act 55 of 1991, sec. 3 (w.e.f. 23-12-1991).
117\. Subs. by Act 27 of 1999, sec. 105, for “within seven days” (w.e.f.
11-5-1999).
118\. Subs. by Act 20 of 2002, sec. 123, for "two days" (w.e.f. 11-5-2002).
119\. Subs. by Act 10 of 2000, sec. 83, for certain words (w.e.f. 12-5-2000).
120\. Subs. by Act 20 of 2002, sec. 123, for "eighteen per cent." (w.e.f.
11-5-2002).
121\. Ins. by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 59 (w.e.f. 26-5-1995).
122\. Subs. by Act 55 of 1991, sec. 4, for "two months" (w.e.f. 23-12-1991).
123\. Subs. by Act 80 of 1985, sec. 4, for “within two months” (w.e.f.
27-12-1985).
124\. Subs. by Act 55 of 1991, sec. 4, for "forty-five days" (w.e.f.
23-12-1991).
125\. Subs. by Act 27 of 1999, sec. 100, for “Assistant Commissioner of
Customs” (w.e.f. 11-5-1999). Earlier the words “Assistant Commissioner of
Customs” were substituted by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 50, for the words “Assistant
Collector of Customs” (w.e.f. 26-5-1995).
126\. Subs. by Act 21 of 1998, sec. 101, for section 53 (w.e.f. 1-8-1998).
127\. Subs. by Act 21 of 1998, sec. 101, for section 54 (w.e.f. 1-8-1998).
128\. Ins. by Act 27 of 1999, sec. 106 (w.e.f. 11-5-1999).
129\. Subs. by Act 21 of 1998, sec. 101, for section 55 (w.e.f. 1-8-1998).
130\. Subs. by Act 27 of 1999, sec. 100, for “Assistant Commissioner of
Customs” (w.e.f. 11-5-1999). Earlier the words “Assistant Commissioner of
Customs” were substituted by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 50, for the words “Assistant
Collector of Customs” (w.e.f. 26-5-1995).
131\. The words “without payment of duty” omitted by Act 55 of 1991, sec. 5
(w.e.f. 23-12-1991).
132\. Subs. by Act 27 of 1999, sec. 100, for “Assistant Commissioner of
Customs” (w.e.f. 11-5-1999). Earlier the words “Assistant Commissioner of
Customs” were substituted by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 50, for the words “Assistant
Collector of Customs” (w.e.f. 26-5-1995).
133\. The words “without payment of duty” omitted by Act 55 of 1991, sec. 5
(w.e.f. 23-12-1991).
134\. Subs. by Act 55 of 1991, sec. 6, for sub-section (1) (w.e.f.
23-12-1991).
135\. The words, brackets and letter “clause (a) of” omit­ted by Act 32 of
1994, sec. 60 (w.e.f. 13-5-1994 ).
136\. Subs. by Act 10 of 2000, sec. 84, for certain words (w.e.f. 12-5-2000).
137\. Subs. by Act 27 of 1999, sec. 100, for “Assistant Commissioner of
Customs” (w.e.f. 11-5-1999). Earlier the words “Assistant Commissioner of
Customs” were substituted by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 50, for the words “Assistant
Collector of Customs” (w.e.f. 26-5-1995).
138\. Ins. by Act 55 of 1991, sec. 7 (w.e.f. 23-12-1991).
139\. Subs. by Act 55 of 1991, sec. 9, for “section 59” (w.e.f. 23-12-1991).
140\. The words, figures and letters, “or section 59A” omitted by Act 32 of
1994, sec. 60 (w.e.f. 13-5-1994 .)
141\. The words “without payment of duty” omitted by Act 55 of 1991, sec. 5
(w.e.f. 23-12-1991).
142\. Subs. by Act 32 of 1994, sec. 60, for section 61 (w.e.f. 13-5-1994).
143\. The word “and” omitted by Act 32 of 2003, sec. 113 (w.e.f. 14-5-2003).
144\. Ins. by Act 32 of 2003, sec. 113 (w.e.f. 14-5-2003).
145\. Subs. by Act 20 of 2002, sec. 124, for clause (i) (w.e.f. 11-5-2002).
146\. Subs. by Act 32 of 2003, sec. 113, for “clause (a) or clause (b)”
(w.e.f. 14-5-2003).
147\. Subs. by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 50, for “Collector of Customs” (w.e.f.
26-5-1995).
148\. Subs. by Act 27 of 1999, sec. 107, for certain words (w.e.f. 11-5-1999).
149\. Subs. by Act 32 of 2003, sec. 113, for “sub-clause (a)” (w.e.f.
14-5-2003).
150\. Subs. by Act 32 of 2003, sec. 113, for “thirty days” (w.e.f. 14-5-2003).
Earlier the words “thirty days” were substituted by Act 14 of 2001, sec. 106,
for the words “six months” (w.e.f. 1-6-2001).
151\. Subs. by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 50, for “Collector of Customs” (w.e.f.
26-5-1999).
152\. Subs. by Act 27 of 1999, sec. 100, for “Assistant Commissioner of
Customs” (w.e.f. 11-5-1999). Earlier the words “Assistant Commissioner of
Customs” were substituted by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 50, for the words “Assistant
Collector of Customs” (w.e.f. 26-5-1995).
153\. The words “without payment of duty” omitted by Act 55 of 1991, sec. 5
(w.e.f. 23-12-1991).
154\. Ins. by Act 32 of 2003, sec. 114 (w.e.f. 14-5-2003).
155\. Ins. by Act 21 of 2006, sec. 59 (w.e.f. 18-4-2006).
156\. Subs. by Act 27 of 1999, sec. 100, for “Assistant Commissioner of
Customs” (w.e.f. 11-5-1999 ). Earlier the words “Assistant Commissioner of
Customs” were substituted by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 50, for the words “Assistant
Collector of Customs” (w.e.f. 26-5-1995).
157\. Subs. by Act 55 of 1991, sec. 9, for “section 59” (w.e.f. 23-12-1991).
158\. The words, figures and letter “or section 59A” omitted by Act 32 of
1994, sec. 60 (w.e.f. 13-5-1994 ).
159\. Subs. by Act 55 of 1991, sec. 9, for “section 59” (w.e.f. 23-12-1991).
160\. The words, figures and letter “or section 59A” omitted by Act 32 of
1994, sec. 60 (w.e.f. 13-5-1994 ).
161\. Subs. by Act 80 of 1985, sec. 6, for certain words (w.e.f. 27-12-1985).
162\. Subs. by Act 27 of 1999, sec. 100, for “Assistant Commissioner of
Customs” (w.e.f. 11-5-1999). Earlier the words “Assistant Commissioner of
Customs” were substituted by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 50, for the words “Assistant
Collector of Customs” (w.e.f. 26-5-1995).
163\. Subs. by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 60, for sub-section (3) (w.e.f.
26-5-1995).
164\. Subs. by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 61, for "manufactured in India" (w.e.f.
26-5-1995).
165\. Subs. by Act 11 of 1983, sec. 52, for "and exported to any place outside
India" (w.e.f. 13-5-1983).
166\. Ins. by Act 80 of 1985, sec. 7 (w.e.f. 27-12-1985).
167\. Subs. by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 61, for "manufacture of such goods"
(w.e.f. 26-5-1995).
168\. Ins. by Act 49 of 1991, sec. 120 (w.e.f. 27-12-1991).
169\. Subs. by Act 20 of 2002, sec. 125, for "Foreign Exchange Regulation Act,
1973 (46 of 1973)" (w.e.f. 11-5-2002).
170\. Ins. by Act 25 of 1978, sec. 10 (w.e.f. 1-7-1978).
171\. Subs. by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 61, for clause (a) (w.e.f. 26-5-1995).
172\. Ins. by Act 49 of 1991, sec. 120 (w.e.f. 27-12-1991).
173\. Ins. by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 61 (w.e.f. 26-5-1995).
174\. Subs. by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 61, for “manufacturer” (w.e.f. 26-5-1995).
175\. Subs. by Act 27 of 1999, sec. 100, for “Assistant Commissioner of
Customs” (w.e.f. 11-5-1999). Earlier the words “Assistant Commissioner of
Customs” were substituted by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 50, for the words “Assistant
Collector of Customs” (w.e.f. 26-5-1995).
176\. Ins. by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 62 (w.e.f. 26-5-1995). tc" 1. Ins. by Act
22 of 1995, sec. 62 (w.e.f. 26-5-1995)."
177\. Subs. by Act 8 of 1999, sec. 2, for “period of three months” (w.e.f.
8-1-1999). tc" 2. Subs. by Act 8 of 1999, sec. 2, for “period of three months”
(w.e.f. 8-1-1999)."
178\. Subs. by Act 32 of 2003, sec. 115, for “two months” (w.e.f. 14-5-2003).
tc" 3. Subs. by Act 32 of 2003, sec. 115, for “two months” (w.e.f.
14-5-2003)."
179\. Proviso omitted by Act 32 of 2003, sec. 115 (w.e.f. 14-5-2003).
180\. Subs. by Act 22 of 2007, sec. 98, for sub-section (2) (w.e.f.
11-5-2007). Earlier sub-section (2) was amended by Act 8 of 1999, sec. 2
(w.e.f. 8-1-1999). Sub-section (2), before substitution by Act 22 of 2007,
stood as under: tc "5. Subs. by Act 22 of 2007, sec. 98, for sub-section (2)
(w.e.f. 11-5-2007). Earlier sub-section (2) was amended by Act 8 of 1999, sec.
2 (w.e.f. 8-1-1999). Sub-section (2), before substitution by Act 22 of 2007,
stood as under\:" “(2) Where any drawback has been paid to the claimant
erroneously, the claimant shall, within a period of two months from the date
of demand, pay in addition to the said amount of drawback, interest at the
rate fixed under section 28AA from the date after the expiry of the said
period of two months till the date of recovery of such drawback.” tc" “(2)
Where any drawback has been paid to the claimant erroneously, the claimant
shall, within a period of two months from the date of demand, pay in addition
to the said amount of drawback, interest at the rate fixed under section 28AA
from the date after the expiry of the said period of two months till the date
of recovery of such drawback.”" tc" 4. Proviso omitted by Act 32 of 2003, sec.
115 (w.e.f. 14-5-2003)."
181\. Clause (a) omitted by Act 11 of 1983, sec. 53 (w.e.f. 13-5-1983).
182\. Subs. by Act 11 of 1983, sec. 53, for "five rupees" (w.e.f. 13-5-1983).
183\. Chapter XA omitted by Act 22 of 2007, sec. 99 (w.e.f. 11-5-2007).
Earlier Chapter XA (containing sections 76A to 76N was inserted by Act 20 of
2002, sec. 126 (w.e.f. 11-5-2004). Chapter XA, before omission by Act 22 of
2007, stood as under:
184\. Chapter XA omitted by Act 22 of 2007, sec. 99 (w.e.f. 11-5-2007).
Earlier Chapter XA (containing sections 76A to 76N was inserted by Act 20 of
2002, sec. 126 (w.e.f. 11-5-2004). Chapter XA, before omission by Act 22 of
2007, stood as under:
185\. Chapter XA omitted by Act 22 of 2007, sec. 99 (w.e.f. 11-5-2007).
Earlier Chapter XA (containing sections 76A to 76N was inserted by Act 20 of
2002, sec. 126 (w.e.f. 11-5-2004). Chapter XA, before omission by Act 22 of
2007, stood as under:
186\. Chapter XA omitted by Act 22 of 2007, sec. 99 (w.e.f. 11-5-2007).
Earlier Chapter XA (containing sections 76A to 76N was inserted by Act 20 of
2002, sec. 126 (w.e.f. 11-5-2004). Chapter XA, before omission by Act 22 of
2007, stood as under:
187\. Chapter XA omitted by Act 22 of 2007, sec. 99 (w.e.f. 11-5-2007).
Earlier Chapter XA (containing sections 76A to 76N was inserted by Act 20 of
2002, sec. 126 (w.e.f. 11-5-2004). Chapter XA, before omission by Act 22 of
2007, stood as under:
188\. Chapter XA omitted by Act 22 of 2007, sec. 99 (w.e.f. 11-5-2007).
Earlier Chapter XA (containing sections 76A to 76N was inserted by Act 20 of
2002, sec. 126 (w.e.f. 11-5-2004). Chapter XA, before omission by Act 22 of
2007, stood as under:
189\. Chapter XA omitted by Act 22 of 2007, sec. 99 (w.e.f. 11-5-2007).
Earlier Chapter XA (containing sections 76A to 76N was inserted by Act 20 of
2002, sec. 126 (w.e.f. 11-5-2004). Chapter XA, before omission by Act 22 of
2007, stood as under:
190\. Chapter XA omitted by Act 22 of 2007, sec. 99 (w.e.f. 11-5-2007).
Earlier Chapter XA (containing sections 76A to 76N was inserted by Act 20 of
2002, sec. 126 (w.e.f. 11-5-2004). Chapter XA, before omission by Act 22 of
2007, stood as under:
191\. Chapter XA omitted by Act 22 of 2007, sec. 99 (w.e.f. 11-5-2007).
Earlier Chapter XA (containing sections 76A to 76N was inserted by Act 20 of
2002, sec. 126 (w.e.f. 11-5-2004). Chapter XA, before omission by Act 22 of
2007, stood as under:
192\. Chapter XA omitted by Act 22 of 2007, sec. 99 (w.e.f. 11-5-2007).
Earlier Chapter XA (containing sections 76A to 76N was inserted by Act 20 of
2002, sec. 126 (w.e.f. 11-5-2004). Chapter XA, before omission by Act 22 of
2007, stood as under:
193\. Chapter XA omitted by Act 22 of 2007, sec. 99 (w.e.f. 11-5-2007).
Earlier Chapter XA (containing sections 76A to 76N was inserted by Act 20 of
2002, sec. 126 (w.e.f. 11-5-2004). Chapter XA, before omission by Act 22 of
2007, stood as under:
194\. Chapter XA omitted by Act 22 of 2007, sec. 99 (w.e.f. 11-5-2007).
Earlier Chapter XA (containing sections 76A to 76N was inserted by Act 20 of
2002, sec. 126 (w.e.f. 11-5-2004). Chapter XA, before omission by Act 22 of
2007, stood as under:
195\. Chapter XA omitted by Act 22 of 2007, sec. 99 (w.e.f. 11-5-2007).
Earlier Chapter XA (containing sections 76A to 76N was inserted by Act 20 of
2002, sec. 126 (w.e.f. 11-5-2004). Chapter XA, before omission by Act 22 of
2007, stood as under:
196\. Ins. by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 63 (w.e.f. 26-5-1995).
197\. These words occur in sub-sections (1) and (2) of section 69, sub-section
(1) of section 74 and sub-section (1) of section 75.
198\. These words occur in sub-sections (1) and (2) of section 69, sub-section
(1) of section 74 and sub-section (1) of section 75.
199\. Ins. by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 64 (w.e.f. 26-5-1995).
200\. Subs. by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 50, for “Collector of Customs” (w.e.f.
26-5-1995).
201\. Subs. by Act 29 of 2006, sec. 24, for sub-section (1) (w.e.f.
13-7-2006). Sub-section (1), before substitution, stood as under:
202\. See now the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974).
203\. Subs. by Act 27 of 1999, sec. 100, for “Assistant Commissioner of
Customs” (w.e.f. 11-5-1999). Earlier the words “Assistant Commissioner of
Customs” were substituted by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 50, for the words “Assistant
Collector of Customs” (w.e.f. 26-5-1995).
204\. See now the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974).
205\. Subs. by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 50, for “Collector of Customs” (w.e.f.
26-5-1995).
206\. Ins. by Act 12 of 1969, sec. 3 (w.r.e.f. 3-1-1969).
207\. Subs. by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 50, for “Collector of Customs” (w.e.f.
26-5-1995).
208\. Subs. by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 50, for “Collector of Customs” (w.e.f.
26-5-1995).
209\. Subs. by Act 29 of 2006, sec. 25, for sub-section (1) (w.e.f.
13-7-2006). Sub-section (1), before substitution, stood as under:
210\. Ins. by Act 80 of 1985, sec. 8 (w.e.f. 27-12-1985).
211\. Subs. by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 50, for “Collector of Customs” (w.e.f.
26-5-1995).
212\. Ins. by Act 29 of 2006, sec. 26 (w.e.f. 13-7-2006).
213\. Subs. by Act 36 of 1973, sec. 2, for certain words (w.e.f. 1-9-1973).
214\. Subs. by Act 27 of 1999, sec. 108, for “in respect thereof;” (w.e.f.
11-5-1999).
215\. Ins. by Act 12 of 1969, sec. 4 (w.r.e.f. 3-1-1969).
216\. Subs. by Act 14 of 2001, sec. 107(a), for certain words (w.e.f.
11-5-2001).
217\. Subs. by Act 14 of 2001, sec. 107(b), for certain words (w.e.f.
11-5-2001).
218\. Ins. by Act 36 of 1973, sec. 3 (w.e.f. 1-9-1973).
219\. Subs. by Act 14 of 2001, sec. 107(c), for certain words (w.e.f.
11-5-2001).
220\. Subs. by Act 14 of 2001, sec. 107(d), for certain words (w.e.f.
11-5-2001).
221\. Subs. by Act 14 of 2001, sec. 107(e) for certain words (w.e.f.
11-5-2001).
222\. The words “dutiable or prohibited” omitted by Act 32 of 2003, sec. 116
(w.e.f. 14-5-2003).
223\. The words “dutiable or prohibited” omitted by Act 32 of 2003, sec. 116
(w.e.f. 14-5-2003).
224\. Subs. by Act 32 of 2003, sec. 116, for clause (i) (w.e.f. 14-5-2003).
225\. Ins. by Act 49 of 1991, sec. 120 (w.r.e.f. 1-4-1991).
226\. The words “under a claim for drawback” omitted by Act 32 of 2003, sec.
116 (w.e.f. 14-5-2003).
227\. Ins. by Act 12 of 1969, sec. 5 (w.r.e.f. 3-1-1969).
228\. Subs. by Act 14 of 2001, sec. 108, for “not exceeding five times the
value of the goods or one thousand rupees” (w.e.f. 11-5-2001).
229\. Subs. by Act 32 of 2003, sec. 117, for “not exceeding the value of the
goods or five thousand rupees” (w.e.f. 14-5-2003).
230\. Subs. by Act 14 of 2001, sec. 108, for “not exceeding five times the
duty sought to be evaded on such goods or one thousand rupees” (w.e.f.
11-5-2001).
231\. Subs. by Act 32 of 2003, sec. 117, for clause (iii) (w.e.f. 14-5-2003).
232\. Ins. by Act 33 of 1996, sec. 64 (w.e.f. 28-9-1996).
233\. Subs. by Act 10 of 2000, sec. 85, for the first and second provisos
(w.e.f. 12-5-2000).
234\. Ins. by Act 29 of 2006, sec. 27 (w.e.f. 13-7-2006).
235\. Certain words omitted by Act 26 of 1988, sec. 79 (w.e.f. 13-5-1988).
236\. Subs. by Act 27 of 1999, sec. 100, for “Assistant Commissioner of
Customs” (w.e.f. 11-5-1999). Earlier the words “Assistant Commissioner of
Customs” were substituted by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 50, for the words “Assistant
Collector of Customs” (w.e.f. 26-5-1995).
237\. Subs. by Act 27 of 1999, sec. 109, for “one thousand rupees” (w.e.f.
11-5-1999).
238\. Subs. by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 50, for “Collector of Customs” (w.e.f.
26-5-1995).
239\. Subs. by Act 27 of 1999, sec. 100, for “Assistant Commissioner of
Customs” (w.e.f. 11-5-1999). Earlier the words “Assistant Commissioner of
Customs” were substituted by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 50, for the words “Assistant
Collector of Customs” (w.e.f. 26-5-1995).
240\. Subs. by Act 25 of 1978, sec. 12, for clause (b) (w.e.f. 1-7-1978).
241\. Subs. by Act 32 of 2003, sec. 118, for “fifty thousand” (w.e.f.
14-5-2003). Earlier the words “fifty thousand” were substituted by Act 18 of
1992, sec. 109(3), for the words “twenty five thousand” (w.e.f. 14-5-1992).
242\. Subs. by Act 25 of 1978, sec. 12, for clause (c) (w.e.f. 1-7-1978).
243\. Subs. by Act 32 of 2003, sec. 118, for “two thousand five hundred”
(w.e.f. 14-5-2003).
244\. Ins. by Act 23 of 2004, sec. 67 (w.e.f. 10-9-2004).
245\. Subs. by Act 36 of 1973, sec. 4, for sub-section (1) (w.e.f. 1-9-1973).
246\. Subs. by Act 40 of 1989, sec. 2, for “diamonds, manufactures of gold or
diamonds” (w.e.f. 26-10-1989).
247\. Subs. by Act 29 of 2006, sec. 28, for "writing informing" (w.e.f.
13-7-2006).
248\. Ins. by Act 80 of 1985, sec. 9 (w.e.f. 27-12-1985).
249\. Subs. by Act 80 of 1985, sec. 9, for sub-section (2) (w.e.f.
27-12-1985).
250\. Chapter XIVA (containing sections 127A to 127N) ins. by Act 21 of 1998,
sec. 102 (w.e.f.1-8-1998). tc "2. Chapter XIVA (containing sections 127A to
127N) ins. by Act 21 of 1998, sec. 102 (w.e.f. 1-8-1998)."
251\. Subs. by Act 22 of 2007, sec. 100, for clause (b) (w.e.f. 1-6-2007).
Clause (b), before substitution stood as under: tc" 3. Subs. by Act 22 of
2007, sec. 100, for clause (b) (w.e.f. 1-6-2007). Clause (b), before
substitution stood as under\:"
252\. section 127B ins. by Act 21 of 1998, sec. 102 (w.e.f. 1-8-1998).
253\. Subs. by Act 22 of 2007, sec. 101, for sub-section (1) (w.e.f.
1-6-2007). Earlier sub-section (1) was amended by Act 10 of 2000, sec. 86
(w.e.f. 12-5-2000). Sub-section (1), before substitution by Act 22 of 2007,
stood as under:
254\. Subs. by the Finance Act, 2010, sec. 57, for “but excluding the goods
not included in the entry made under this Act”.
255\. section 127C ins. by Act 21 of 1998, sec. 102 (w.e.f. 1-8-1998).
256\. Subs. by Act 22 of 2007, sec. 102, for section 127C (w.e.f. 1-6-2007).
Section 127C, before substitution by Act 22 of 2007, stood as under:
257\. Ins. by the Finance Act, 2010, sec. 58.
258\. Chapter XIVA (containing sections 127A to 127N) ins. by Act 21 of 1998,
sec. 102 (w.e.f.1-8-1998).
259\. Ins. by Act 22 of 2007, sec. 103 (w.e.f. 1-6-2007). tc "1. Ins. by Act
22 of 2007, sec. 103 (w.e.f. 1-6-2007)." tc "1[Provided further that no
proceeding shall be reopened by the Settlement Commission under this section
in a case where an application under section 127B is made on or after the 1st
day of June, 2007.]"
260\. Chapter XIVA (containing sections 127A to 127N) ins. by Act 21 of 1998,
sec. 102 (w.e.f.1-8-1998).
261\. Subs. by Act 22 of 2007, sec. 104, for “(7)” (w.e.f. 1-6-2007). tc "2.
Subs. by Act 22 of 2007, sec. 104, for “(7)” (w.e.f. 1-6-2007)."
262\. Subs. by Act 22 of 2007, sec. 104, for “(6)” (w.e.f. 1-6-2007). tc" 3.
Subs. by Act 22 of 2007, sec. 104, for “(6)” (w.e.f. 1-6-2007)."
263\. Chapter XIVA (containing sections 127A to 127N) ins. by Act 21 of 1998,
sec. 102 (w.e.f.1-8-1998).
264\. Subs. by Act 22 of 2007, sec. 105(i)(a), for “or under the Indian Penal
Code (45 of 1860) or under any other Central Act for the time being in force
and also either wholly or in part from the imposition of any penalty, fine and
interest” (w.e.f. 1-6-2007). tc "1. Subs. by Act 22 of 2007, sec. 105(i)(a),
for “or under the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860) or under any other Central
Act for the time being in force and also either wholly or in part from the
imposition of any penalty, fine and interest” (w.e.f. 1-6-2007)."
265\. Ins. by Act 22 of 2007, sec. 105(i)(b) (w.e.f. 1-6-2007). tc" 2. Ins. by
Act 22 of 2007, sec. 105(i)(b) (w.e.f. 1-6-2007)."
266\. Subs. by Act 22 of 2007, sec. 105(ii), for “sub-section (7) of section
127C within the time specified in such order or within such further time as
may be allowed by the Settlement Commission” (w.e.f. 1-6-2007). tc" 3. Subs.
by Act 22 of 2007, sec. 105(ii), for “sub-section (7) of section 127C within
the time specified in such order or within such further time as may be allowed
by the Settlement Commission” (w.e.f. 1-6-2007)."
267\. Chapter XIVA (containing sections 127A to 127N) ins. by Act 21 of 1998,
sec. 102 (w.e.f.1-8-1998).
268\. Subs. by Act 22 of 2007, sec. 106, for “(7)” (w.e.f. 1-6-2007). tc "1.
Subs. by Act 22 of 2007, sec. 106, for “(7)” (w.e.f. 1-6-2007)."
269\. Chapter XIVA (containing sections 127A to 127N) ins. by Act 21 of 1998,
sec. 102 (w.e.f.1-8-1998).
270\. Subs. by Act 22 of 2007, sec. 107, for “(7)” (w.e.f. 1-6-2007). tc "2.
Subs. by Act 22 of 2007, sec. 107, for “(7)” (w.e.f. 1-6-2007)."
271\. section 127L ins. by Act 21 of 1998, sec. 102 (w.e.f. 1-8-1998).
272\. Section 127L renumbered as sub-section (1) thereof by Act 22 of 2007,
sec. 108 (w.e.f. 11-5-2007).
273\. Subs. by Act 22 of 2007, sec. 108(i) for “Where” (w.e.f. 11-5-2007).
274\. The words “before the 1st day of June, 2007” omitted by the Finance Act,
2010, sec. 59(a)(i).
275\. Ins. by the Finance Act, 2010, sec. 59(a)(ii).
276\. Ins. by the Finance Act, 2010, sec. 59(a)(iii).
277\. Sub-section (2) omitted by the Finance Act, 2010, sec. 59(b). Earlier
sub-section (2) was inserted by Act 22 of 2007, sec. 108(ii) (w.e.f.
1-6-2007). Sub-section (2), before omission by the Finance Act, 2010, stood as
under:
278\. Section 127MA omitted by Act 22 of 2007, sec. 109 (w.e.f. 1-6-2007).
Earlier section 127MA was inserted by Act 10 of 2000, section 87 (w.e.f.
12-5-2000) and was amended by Act 18 of 2005, section 68 (w.e.f. 13-5-2005).
Section 127MA, before omission by Act 22 of 2007, stood as under:
279\. Chapter XV (containing sections 128, 128A, 129, 129A, 129B, 129C, 129D,
129E, 130, 130A, 130B, 130C, 130D, 130E, 130F, 131, 131A, 131B, 131C) subs. by
Act 44 of 1980, sec. 50 and the Fifth Sch. Pt. 1, for Chapter XV (containing
sections 128, 129, 130, and 131) (w.e.f. 11-10-1982).
280\. Subs. by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 50, for “Collector (Appeals)” (w.e.f.
26-5-1995).
281\. Subs. by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 50, for “Collector of Customs” (w.e.f.
26-5-1995).
282\. Subs. by Act 14 of 2001, sec. 109, for "within three months" (w.e.f.
11-5-2001).
283\. Subs. by Act 14 of 2001, sec. 109, for the proviso (w.e.f. 11-5-2001).
284\. Ins. by Act 23 of 2004, sec. 68 (w.e.f. 10-9-2004).
285\. Chapter XV (containing sections 128, 128A, 129, 129A, 129B, 129C, 129D,
129E, 130, 130A, 130B, 130C, 130D, 130E, 130F, 131, 131A, 131B, 131C) subs. by
Act 44 of 1980, sec. 50 and the Fifth Sch. Pt. 1, for Chapter XV (containing
sections 128, 129, 130, and 131) (w.e.f. 11-10-1982).
286\. Subs. by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 50, for “Collector (Appeals)” (w.e.f.
26-5-1995).
287\. Subs. by Act 14 of 2001, sec. 110, for certain words (w.e.f. 11-5-2001).
288\. Ins. by Act 14 of 2001, sec. 110 (w.e.f. 11-5-2001).
289\. Subs. by Act 18 of 2005, sec. 69, for “and the Commissioner of Customs”
(w.e.f. 13-5-2005)
290\. Chapter XV (containing sections 128, 128A, 129, 129A, 129B, 129C, 129D,
129E, 130, 130A, 130B, 130C, 130D, 130E, 130F, 131, 131A, 131B, 131C) subs. by
Act 44 of 1980, sec. 50 and the Fifth Sch. Pt. 1, for Chapter XV (containing
sections 128, 129, 130, and 131) (w.e.f. 11-10-1982).
291\. Subs. by Act 32 of 2003, sec. 119, for “Gold (Control)” (w.e.f.
14-5-2003).
292\. Subs. by Act 21 of 1984, sec. 39, for sub-section (2) (w.e.f.
11-5-1984).
293\. Subs. by Act 32 of 2003, sec. 119, for “Central Legal Service” (w.e.f.
14-5-2003).
294\. Subs. by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 50, for “Collector of Customs” (w.e.f.
26-5-1995).
295\. Subs. by Act 33 of 1996, sec. 65, for sub-section (3) (w.e.f.
28-9-1996).
296\. Sub-section (4A) omitted by Act 32 of 2003, sec. 119 (w.e.f. 14-5-2003).
Earlier sub-section (4A) was inserted by Act 21 of 1984, sec. 39 (w.e.f.
11-5-1984).
297\. Subs. by Act 21 of 1984, sec. 39, for “The Vice-President” (w.e.f.
11-5-1984).
298\. Subs. by Act 32 of 2003, sec. 119, for “The Senior Vice-President or a
Vice-President” (w.e.f. 14-5-2003).
299\. Ins. by Act 22 of 2007, sec. 110 (w.e.f. 11-5-2007).
300\. Chapter XV (containing sections 128, 128A, 129, 129A, 129B, 129C, 129D,
129E, 130, 130A, 130B, 130C, 130D, 130E, 130F, 131, 131A, 131B, 131C) subs. by
Act 44 of 1980, sec. 50 and the Fifth Sch. Pt. 1, for Chapter XV (containing
sections 128, 129, 130, and 131) (w.e.f. 11-10-1982).
301\. Subs. by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 50, for “Collector of Customs” (w.e.f.
26-5-1995).
302\. Subs. by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 50, for “Collector (Appeals)” (w.e.f.
26-5-1995).
303\. Subs. by Act 21 of 1984, sec. 40, for “Provided that” (w.e.f.
11-5-1984).
304\. Ins. by Act 18 of 2005, sec. 70 (w.e.f. 13-5-2005).
305\. Subs. by Act 62 of 1986, sec. 34, for sub-section (2).
306\. Subs. by Act 18 of 2005, sec. 70, for "The Commissioner may, if he is"
(w.e.f. 13-5-2005).
307\. Subs. by Act 18 of 2005, sec. 70, for "on his behalf" (w.e.f.
13-5-2005).
308\. Subs. by Act 23 of 2004, sec. 69, for sub-section (6) (w.e.f.
1-11-2004). Sub-section (6), before substitution, stood as under:
309\. Chapter XV (containing sections 128, 128A, 129, 129A, 129B, 129C, 129D,
129E, 130, 130A, 130B, 130C, 130D, 130E, 130F, 131, 131A, 131B, 131C) subs. by
Act 44 of 1980, sec. 50 and the Fifth Sch. Pt. 1, for Chapter XV (containing
sections 128, 129, 130, and 131) (w.e.f. 11-10-1982).
310\. Ins. by Act 23 of 2004, sec. 70 (w.e.f. 10-9-2004).
311\. Subs. by Act 20 of 2002, sec. 127, for “four years” (w.e.f. 11-5-2002).
312\. Subs. by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 50, for “Collector of Customs” (w.e.f.
26-5-1995).
313\. Ins. by Act 20 of 2002, sec. 127 (w.e.f. 11-5-2002).
314\. Chapter XV (containing sections 128, 128A, 129, 129A, 129B, 129C, 129D,
129E, 130, 130A, 130B, 130C, 130D, 130E, 130F, 131, 131A, 131B, 131C) subs. by
Act 44 of 1980, sec. 50 and the Fifth Sch. Pt. 1, for Chapter XV (containing
sections 128, 129, 130, and 131) (w.e.f. 11-10-1982).
315\. Subs. by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 65, for “sub-sections (3) and (4)” (w.e.f.
26-5-1995).
316\. Sub-section (3) omitted by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 65 (w.e.f. 26-5-1995).
317\. Subs. by Act 33 of 1996, sec. 66, for “one lakh rupees” (w.e.f.
28-9-1996).
318\. Subs. by Act 12 of 1990, sec. 62, for sub-section (5) (w.e.f.
31-5-1990).
319\. Subs. by Act 18 of 2005, sec. 71, for “Board” (w.e.f. 13-5-2005). tc "1.
Subs. by Act 18 of 2005, sec. 71, for “Board” (w.e.f. 13-5-2005)."
320\. Subs. by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 50, for “Collector of Customs” (w.e.f.
26-5-1995). tc" 2. Subs. by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 50, for “Collector of
Customs” (w.e.f. 26-5-1995)."
321\. Subs. by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 50, for “Collector” (w.e.f. 26-5-1995).
tc" 3. Subs. by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 50, for “Collector” (w.e.f. 26-5-1995)."
322\. Ins. by Act 14 of 2001, sec. 111 (w.e.f. 11-5-2001). tc" 4. Ins. by Act
14 of 2001, sec. 111 (w.e.f. 11-5-2001)."
323\. Ins. by Act 62 of 1986, sec. 34. tc" 5. Ins. by Act 62 of 1986, sec.
34."
324\. Subs. by Act 29 of 2006, sec. 29, for "such authority" (w.e.f.
13-7-2006). tc "1. Subs. by Act 29 of 2006, sec. 29, for \"such authority\"
(w.e.f. 13-7-2006)."
325\. Subs. by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 50, for “Collector (Appeals)” (w.e.f.
26-5-1995). tc" 2. Subs. by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 50, for “Collector (Appeals)”
(w.e.f. 26-5-1995)."
326\. Subs. by Act 22 of 2007, sec. 111(i), for sub-section (3) (w.e.f.
11-5-2007). Earlier sub-section (3) was substituted by Act 20 of 2002, sec.
128 (w.e.f. 11-5-2002) and was amended by Act 18 of 2005, sec. 71 (w.e.f.
13-5-2005). Sub-section (3), before substitution by Act 22 of 2007, stood as
under: tc" 4. Subs. by Act 22 of 2007, sec. 111(i), for sub-section (3)
(w.e.f. 11-5-2007). Earlier sub-section (3) was substituted by Act 20 of 2002,
sec. 128 (w.e.f. 11-5-2002) and was amended by Act 18 of 2005, sec. 71 (w.e.f.
13-5-2005). Sub-section (3), before substitution by Act 22 of 2007, stood as
under\:" “(3) The Committee of Chief Commissioners of Customs or the
Commissioner of Customs, as the case may be, shall, where it is possible to do
so, make order under sub-section (1) or sub-section (2), within a period of
six months, but not beyond a period of one year, from the date of the decision
or order of the adjudicating authority.”. tc" “(3) The Committee of Chief
Commissioners of Customs or the Commissioner of Customs, as the case may be,
shall, where it is possible to do so, make order under sub-section (1) or sub-
section (2), within a period of six months, but not beyond a period of one
year, from the date of the decision or order of the adjudicating authority.”."
327\. Subs. by Act 22 of 2007, sec. 111(ii), for “three months” (w.e.f.
11-5-2007). tc" 6. Subs. by Act 22 of 2007, sec. 111(ii), for “three months”
(w.e.f. 11-5-2007)."
328\. Ins. by Act 29 of 1988, sec. 4 (w.e.f. 1-7-1988). tc" 7. Ins. by Act 29
of 1988, sec. 4 (w.e.f. 1-7-1988)."
329\. Ins. by Act 29 of 1988, sec. 5 (w.e.f. 1-7-1988).
330\. Subs. by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 50, for “Collector of Customs” (w.e.f.
26-5-1995).
331\. Ins. by Act 21 of 1984, sec. 43 (w.e.f. 11-5-1984).
332\. Ins. by Act 27 of 1999, sec. 110 (w.e.f. 11-5-1999).
333\. Subs. by Act 27 of 1999, sec. 110, for sub-section (3) (w.e.f.
11-5-1999).
334\. Chapter XV (containing sections 128, 128A, 129, 129A, 129B, 129C, 129D,
129E, 130, 130A, 130B, 130C, 130D, 130E, 130F, 131, 131A, 131B, 131C) subs. by
Act 44 of 1980, sec. 50 and the Fifth Sch. Pt. 1, for Chapter XV (containing
sections 128, 129, 130, and 131) (w.e.f. 11-10-1982).
335\. Subs by Act 55 of 1991, sec 10, for “duty” (w. e. f 23.12. 1991 ).
336\. Subs. by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 50, for “Collector of Customs” (w.e.f.
26-5-1995).
337\. Ins by Act 14 of 2001, sec. 112 ( w. e. f. 11. 5. 2001).
338\. 130 subs. by Act 44 of 1980, sec. 50 and the Fifth Sch., Pt. 1-4, for
Chapter XV (containing sections 128, 129, 130 and 131) (w.e.f. 11-10-1982).
Earlier section 128 was amended, section 130 was substituted and section 131
was amended by Act 25 of 1978, secs. 13, 14 and 15 (w.e.f. 1-7-1978 and
1-8-1978).
339\. Section 130 was earlier amended by Act 27 of 1999, sec. 111 (w.e.f.
11-5-1999) and was substituted by Act 32 of 2003, sec. 120 (w.e.f. 14-5-2003).
Section 130, before repeal by Act 49 of 2005, stood as under:
340\. 130 subs. by Act 44 of 1980, sec. 50 and the Fifth Sch., Pt. 1-4, for
Chapter XV (containing sections 128, 129, 130 and 131) (w.e.f. 11-10-1982).
Earlier section 128 was amended, section 130 was substituted and section 131
was amended by Act 25 of 1978, secs. 13, 14 and 15 (w.e.f. 1-7-1978 and
1-8-1978).
341\. Section 130A was earlier substituted by Act 27 of 1999, sec. 112 (w.e.f.
11-5-1999) and was amended by Act 32 of 2003, sec. 121 (w.e.f. 14-5-2003).
Section 130A, before repeal by Act 49 of 2005, stood as under:
342\. Chapter XV (containing sections 128, 128A, 129, 129A, 129B, 129C, 129D,
129E, 130, 130A, 130B, 130C, 130D, 130E, 130F, 131, 131A, 131B, 131C) subs. by
Act 44 of 1980, sec. 50 and the Fifth Sch. Pt. 1, for Chapter XV (containing
sections 128, 129, 130, and 131) (w.e.f. 11-10-1982).
343\. Section 130B, before repeal, stood as stood:
344\. Chapter XV (containing sections 128, 128A, 129, 129A, 129B, 129C, 129D,
129E, 130, 130A, 130B, 130C, 130D, 130E, 130F, 131, 131A, 131B, 131C) subs. by
Act 44 of 1980, sec. 50 and the Fifth Sch. Pt. 1, for Chapter XV (containing
sections 128, 129, 130, and 131) (w.e.f. 11-10-1982).
345\. Section 130C, before repeal, stood as stood:
346\. Chapter XV (containing sections 128, 128A, 129, 129A, 129B, 129C, 129D,
129E, 130, 130A, 130B, 130C, 130D, 130E, 130F, 131, 131A, 131B, 131C) subs. by
Act 44 of 1980, sec. 50 and the Fifth Sch. Pt. 1, for Chapter XV (containing
sections 128, 129, 130, and 131) (w.e.f. 11-10-1982).
347\. Section 130D, before repeal, stood as stood:
348\. Chapter XV (containing sections 128, 128A, 129, 129A, 129B, 129C, 129D,
129E, 130, 130A, 130B, 130C, 130D, 130E, 130F, 131, 131A, 131B, 131C) subs. by
Act 44 of 1980, sec. 50 and the Fifth Sch. Pt. 1, for Chapter XV (containing
sections 128, 129, 130, and 131) (w.e.f. 11-10-1982).
349\. Subs. by Act 32 of 2003, sec. 123, for clause (a) (w.e.f. 14-5-2003).
350\. Ins. by Act 49 of 2005, sec. 30 and Sch., Pt. VI-8.
351\. Chapter XV (containing sections 128, 128A, 129, 129A, 129B, 129C, 129D,
129E, 130, 130A, 130B, 130C, 130D, 130E, 130F, 131, 131A, 131B, 131C) subs. by
Act 44 of 1980, sec. 50 and the Fifth Sch. Pt. 1, for Chapter XV (containing
sections 128, 129, 130, and 131) (w.e.f. 11-10-1982).
352\. Chapter XV (containing sections 128, 128A, 129, 129A, 129B, 129C, 129D,
129E, 130, 130A, 130B, 130C, 130D, 130E, 130F, 131, 131A, 131B, 131C) subs. by
Act 44 of 1980, sec. 50 and the Fifth Sch. Pt. 1, for Chapter XV (containing
sections 128, 129, 130, and 131) (w.e.f. 11-10-1982).
353\. Ins. by Act 49 of 2005, sec. 30 and Sch., Pt. VI-9.
354\. Chapter XV (containing sections 128, 128A, 129, 129A, 129B, 129C, 129D,
129E, 130, 130A, 130B, 130C, 130D, 130E, 130F, 131, 131A, 131B, 131C) subs. by
Act 44 of 1980, sec. 50 and the Fifth Sch. Pt. 1, for Chapter XV (containing
sections 128, 129, 130, and 131) (w.e.f. 11-10-1982).
355\. Chapter XV (containing sections 128, 128A, 129, 129A, 129B, 129C, 129D,
129E, 130, 130A, 130B, 130C, 130D, 130E, 130F, 131, 131A, 131B, 131C) subs. by
Act 44 of 1980, sec. 50 and the Fifth Sch. Pt. 1, for Chapter XV (containing
sections 128, 129, 130, and 131) (w.e.f. 11-10-1982).
356\. Subs. by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 50, for “Collector of Customs” (w.e.f.
26-5-1995).
357\. Chapter XV (containing sections 128, 128A, 129, 129A, 129B, 129C, 129D,
129E, 130, 130A, 130B, 130C, 130D, 130E, 130F, 131, 131A, 131B, 131C) subs. by
Act 44 of 1980, sec. 50 and the Fifth Sch. Pt. 1, for Chapter XV (containing
sections 128, 129, 130, and 131) (w.e.f. 11-10-1982).
358\. Clause (b) omitted by Act 49 of 2005, sec. 30 and Sch., Pt. VI-10
(w.e.f. 28-12-2005). Clause (b), before omission, stood as under:
359\. Subs. by Act 29 of 2006, sec. 30, for "six months" (w.e.f. 13-7-2006).
360\. Subs. by Act 29 of 2006, sec. 31, for "six months" (w.e.f. 13-7-2006).
361\. Subs. by Act 22 of 2007, for sub-section (1). Earlier section 135 was
renumbered as sub-section thereof by Act 36 of 1973, sec. 5 (w.e.f. 1-9-1973)
and was amended by Act 25 of 1978, sec. 16 (w.e.f. 1-7-1978) by Act 40 of
1989, sec. 3 (w.e.f. 26-10-1989) and by Act 32 of 2003, sec. 124 (w.e.f.
14-5-2003). Sub-section (1), before substitution by Act 22 of 2007, stood as
under:
362\. Ins. by Act 36 of 1973, sec. 5 (w.e.f. 1-9-1973).
363\. Subs. by Act 25 of 1978, sec. 16, for “six months” (w.e.f. 1-7-1978).
364\. Ins. by Act 36 of 1973, sec. 6 (w.e.f. 1-9-1973).
365\. Ins. by Act 36 of 1973, sec. 6 (w.e.f. 1-9-1973).
366\. Subs. by Act 32 of 2003, sec. 125, for “connives at any act or thing
whereby” (w.e.f. 14-5-2003).
367\. Subs. by Act 36 of 1973, sec. 7, for “two years” (w.e.f. 1-9-1973).
368\. Subs. by Act 29 of 2006, sec. 32, for "section 135" (w.e.f. 13-7-2006).
369\. Subs. by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 50, for “Collector of Customs” (w.e.f.
26-5-1995).
370\. Subs. by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 50, for “Assistant Collector of Customs”
(w.e.f. 26-5-1995) and again subs. by Act 27 of 1999, sec. 100, for “Assistant
Commissioner of Customs” (w.e.f. 11-5-1999).
371\. Ins. by Act 23 of 2004, sec. 71 (w.e.f. 10-9-2004).
372\. Subs. by Act 33 of 2009, sec. 89(i), for “such compounding amount”
(w.e.f. 19-8-2009).
373\. Ins. by Act 33 of 2009, sec. 89(ii) (w.e.f. 19-8-2009).
374\. See now the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974).
375\. Subs. by Act 36 of 1973, sec. 8, for "under clause (i) of section 135"
(w.e.f. 1-9-1973).
376\. Ins. by Act 36 of 1973, sec. 9 (w.e.f. 1-9-1973).
377\. Ins. by Act 36 of 1973, sec. 9 (w.e.f. 1-9-1973).
378\. Ins. by Act 29 of 1988, sec. 6 (w.e.f. 1-7-1988).
379\. Subs. by Act 36 of 1973, sec. 10, for section 139 (w.e.f. 1-9-1973).
380\. Ins. by Act 80 of 1985, sec. 11 (w.e.f. 27-12-1985).
381\. Ins. by Act 36 of 1973, sec. 11 (w.e.f. 1-9-1973).
382\. See now section 360 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974).
383\. Subs. by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 66, for certain words (w.e.f. 26-5-1995).
384\. Ins. by Act 10 of 2000, sec. 88 (w.e.f. 12-5-2000).
385\. Subs. by Act 27 of 1999, sec. 100, for “Assistant Commissioner of
Customs” (w.e.f. 11-5-1999). Earlier the words “Assistant Commissioner of
Customs” were substituted by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 50, for the words “Assistant
Collector of Customs” (w.e.f. 26-5-1995).
386\. Subs. by Act 27 of 1999, sec. 100, for “Assistant Commissioner of
Customs” (w.e.f.11-5-1999). Earlier the words “Assistant Commissioner of
Customs” were substituted by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 50, for the words “Assistant
Collector of Customs” (w.e.f. 26-5-1995).
387\. Subs. by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 66, for clause (c) (w.e.f. 26-5-1995).
388\. Ins. by Act 23 of 2004, sec. 72 (w.e.f. 10-9-2004).
389\. Subs. by Act 27 of 1999, sec. 100, for “Assistant Commissioner of
Customs” (w.e.f. 11-5-1999). Earlier the words “Assistant Commissioner of
Customs” were substituted by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 50, for the words “Assistant
Collector of Customs” (w.e.f. 26-5-1995).
390\. Ins. by Act 25 of 1978, sec. 17 (w.e.f. 1-7-1987).
391\. See now the Foreign Trade Development and Regulation Act, 1992 (22 of
1992).
392\. Subs. by Act 27 of 1999, sec. 100, for “Assistant Commissioner of
Customs” (w.e.f. 11-5-1999). Earlier the words “Assistant Commissioner of
Customs” were substituted by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 50, for the words “Assistant
Collector of Customs” (w.e.f. 26-5-1995).
393\. Subs. by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 50, for “Collector of Customs” (w.e.f
26-5-1995).
394\. Ins. by Act 44 of 1980, sec. 50 and Fifth Sch., Pt. 1 (w.e.f.
11-10-1982).
395\. See now the Central Excise Act, 1944 (1 of 1944).
396\. This Act has been repealed by Act 18 of 1990, sec. 2 (w.e.f. 6-6-1990).
397\. Subs. by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 50, for “Collector of Customs” (w.e.f
26-5-1995).
398\. Subs. by Act 27 of 1999, sec. 100, for “Assistant Commissioner of
Customs” (w.e.f. 11-5-1999). Earlier the words “Assistant Commissioner of
Customs” were substituted by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 50, for the words “Assistant
Collector of Customs” (w.e.f. 26-5-1995).
399\. Ins. by Act 80 of 1985, sec. 12 (w.e.f. 27-12-1985).
400\. The words “a Principal Collector of Customs or a Collector of Customs”
ins. by Act 29 of 1988, sec. 7, for “a Collector of Customs” (w.e.f.
1-7-1988).
401\. Subs. by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 50, for “Principal Collector of Customs”
(w.e.f. 26-5-1995).
402\. Subs. by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 50, for “Collector of Customs” (w.e.f.
26-5-1995).
403\. Subs. by Act 27 of 1999, sec. 100, for “Deputy Commissioner of Customs”
(w.e.f. 11-5-1999). Earlier the words “Deputy Commissioner of Customs” were
substituted by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 50, for the words “Deputy Collector of
Customs” (w.e.f. 26-5-1995).
404\. Subs. by Act 27 of 1999, sec. 100, for “Assistant Commissioner of
Customs” (w.e.f. 11-5-1999). Earlier the words “Assistant Commissioner of
Customs” were substituted by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 50, for the words “Assistant
Collector of Customs” (w.e.f. 26-5-1995).
405\. Subs. by Act 27 of 1999, sec. 100, for “Assistant Commissioner of
Customs” (w.e.f. 11-5-1999). Earlier the words “Assistant Commissioner of
Customs” were substituted by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 50, for the words “Assistant
Collector of Customs” (w.e.f. 26-5-1995).
406\. Ins. by Act 12 of 1990, sec. 62 (w.e.f. 31-5-1990).
407\. Subs. by Act 2 of 2006, sec. 33 (w.e.f. 13-7-2006).
408\. Subs. by Act 22 of 2007, sec. 113, for clause (a) (w.e.f. 10-10-2007).
Earlier clause (a) was substituted by Act 27 of 1988, sec. 3 (w.e.f.
16-8-1988). Clause (a), before substitution by Act 22 of 2007, stood as under:
409\. Clause (c) omitted by Act 26 of 1988, sec. 80 (w.e.f. 13-5-1988).
410\. Added by Act 36 of 1973, sec. 12 (w.e.f. 1-9-1973).
411\. Ins. by Act 23 of 2004, sec. 73 (w.e.f. 10-9-2004).
412\. Subs. by Act 27 of 1999, sec. 115, for “bill of transshipment” (w.e.f.
11-5-1999).
413\. Ins. by Act 33 of 2009, sec. 91 (w.e.f. 19-8-2009).
414\. Ins. by Act 40 of 1991, sec. 14 (w.e.f. 20-9-1991).
415\. Subs. by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 67, for “form” (w.e.f. 26-5-1995).
416\. Subs. by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 68, for section 159 (w.e.f. 26-5-1995).
417\. Ins. by Act 14 of 2001, sec. 113 (w.e.f. 11-5-2001).
Collector of Customs” (w.e.f. 26-5-1995).
405\. Subs. by Act 27 of 1999, sec. 100, for “Assistant Commissioner of
Customs” (w.e.f. 11-5-1999). Earlier the words “Assistant Commissioner of
Customs” were substituted by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 50, for the words “Assistant
Collector of Customs” (w.e.f. 26-5-1995).
406\. Ins. by Act 12 of 1990, sec. 62 (w.e.f. 31-5-1990).
407\. Subs. by Act 2 of 2006, sec. 33 (w.e.f. 13-7-2006).
408\. Subs. by Act 22 of 2007, sec. 113, for clause (a) (w.e.f. 10-10-2007).
Earlier clause (a) was substituted by Act 27 of 1988, sec. 3 (w.e.f.
16-8-1988). Clause (a), before substitution by Act 22 of 2007, stood as under:
409\. Clause (c) omitted by Act 26 of 1988, sec. 80 (w.e.f. 13-5-1988).
410\. Added by Act 36 of 1973, sec. 12 (w.e.f. 1-9-1973).
411\. Ins. by Act 23 of 2004, sec. 73 (w.e.f. 10-9-2004).
412\. Subs. by Act 27 of 1999, sec. 115, for “bill of transshipment” (w.e.f.
11-5-1999).
413\. Ins. by Act 33 of 2009, sec. 91 (w.e.f. 19-8-2009).
(6) “Board” means the 4 [Central Board of Excise and Customs constituted under
the Central Boards of Revenue Act, 1963 (54 of 1963)];
(7) “coastal goods” means goods, other than imported goods, transported in a
vessel from one port in India to another;
5 [(7A) “Commissioner (Appeals)” means a person appointed to be a Commissioner
of Customs (Appeals) under sub-section (1) of section 4;]
6 [(8) “Commissioner of Customs”, except for the purposes of Chapter XV,
includes an Additional Commissioner of Customs;]
(9) “conveyance” includes a vessel, an aircraft and a vehicle;
(10) “customs airport” means any airport appointed under clause (a) of section
7 to be a customs airport;
(11) “customs area” means the area of a customs station and includes any area
in which imported goods or export goods are ordinarily kept before clearance
by Customs Authorities;
(12) “customs port” means any port appointed under clause (a) of section 7 to
be a customs port 7 [and includes a place appointed under clause (aa) of that
section to be an inland container depot];
(13) “customs station” means any customs port, customs airport or land customs
station;
(14) “dutiable goods” means any goods which are chargeable to duty and on
Collector of Customs” (w.e.f. 26-5-1995).
405\. Subs. by Act 27 of 1999, sec. 100, for “Assistant Commissioner of
Customs” (w.e.f. 11-5-1999). Earlier the words “Assistant Commissioner of
Customs” were substituted by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 50, for the words “Assistant
Collector of Customs” (w.e.f. 26-5-1995).
406\. Ins. by Act 12 of 1990, sec. 62 (w.e.f. 31-5-1990).
407\. Subs. by Act 2 of 2006, sec. 33 (w.e.f. 13-7-2006).
408\. Subs. by Act 22 of 2007, sec. 113, for clause (a) (w.e.f. 10-10-2007).
Earlier clause (a) was substituted by Act 27 of 1988, sec. 3 (w.e.f.
16-8-1988). Clause (a), before substitution by Act 22 of 2007, stood as under:
409\. Clause (c) omitted by Act 26 of 1988, sec. 80 (w.e.f. 13-5-1988).
410\. Added by Act 36 of 1973, sec. 12 (w.e.f. 1-9-1973).
411\. Ins. by Act 23 of 2004, sec. 73 (w.e.f. 10-9-2004).
412\. Subs. by Act 27 of 1999, sec. 115, for “bill of transshipment” (w.e.f.
11-5-1999).
413\. Ins. by Act 33 of 2009, sec. 91 (w.e.f. 19-8-2009).
(6) “Board” means the 4 [Central Board of Excise and Customs constituted under
the Central Boards of Revenue Act, 1963 (54 of 1963)];
(7) “coastal goods” means goods, other than imported goods, transported in a
vessel from one port in India to another;
5 [(7A) “Commissioner (Appeals)” means a person appointed to be a Commissioner
of Customs (Appeals) under sub-section (1) of section 4;]
6 [(8) “Commissioner of Customs”, except for the purposes of Chapter XV,
includes an Additional Commissioner of Customs;]
(9) “conveyance” includes a vessel, an aircraft and a vehicle;
(10) “customs airport” means any airport appointed under clause (a) of section
7 to be a customs airport;
(11) “customs area” means the area of a customs station and includes any area
in which imported goods or export goods are ordinarily kept before clearance
by Customs Authorities;
(12) “customs port” means any port appointed under clause (a) of section 7 to
be a customs port 7 [and includes a place appointed under clause (aa) of that
section to be an inland container depot];
(13) “customs station” means any customs port, customs airport or land customs
station;
(14) “dutiable goods” means any goods which are chargeable to duty and on
Collector of Customs” (w.e.f. 26-5-1995).
405\. Subs. by Act 27 of 1999, sec. 100, for “Assistant Commissioner of
Customs” (w.e.f. 11-5-1999). Earlier the words “Assistant Commissioner of
Customs” were substituted by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 50, for the words “Assistant
Collector of Customs” (w.e.f. 26-5-1995).
406\. Ins. by Act 12 of 1990, sec. 62 (w.e.f. 31-5-1990).
407\. Subs. by Act 2 of 2006, sec. 33 (w.e.f. 13-7-2006).
408\. Subs. by Act 22 of 2007, sec. 113, for clause (a) (w.e.f. 10-10-2007).
Earlier clause (a) was substituted by Act 27 of 1988, sec. 3 (w.e.f.
16-8-1988). Clause (a), before substitution by Act 22 of 2007, stood as under:
409\. Clause (c) omitted by Act 26 of 1988, sec. 80 (w.e.f. 13-5-1988).
410\. Added by Act 36 of 1973, sec. 12 (w.e.f. 1-9-1973).
411\. Ins. by Act 23 of 2004, sec. 73 (w.e.f. 10-9-2004).
412\. Subs. by Act 27 of 1999, sec. 115, for “bill of transshipment” (w.e.f.
11-5-1999).
413\. Ins. by Act 33 of 2009, sec. 91 (w.e.f. 19-8-2009).
(6) “Board” means the 4 [Central Board of Excise and Customs constituted under
the Central Boards of Revenue Act, 1963 (54 of 1963)];
(7) “coastal goods” means goods, other than imported goods, transported in a
vessel from one port in India to another;
5 [(7A) “Commissioner (Appeals)” means a person appointed to be a Commissioner
of Customs (Appeals) under sub-section (1) of section 4;]
6 [(8) “Commissioner of Customs”, except for the purposes of Chapter XV,
includes an Additional Commissioner of Customs;]
(9) “conveyance” includes a vessel, an aircraft and a vehicle;
(10) “customs airport” means any airport appointed under clause (a) of section
7 to be a customs airport;
(11) “customs area” means the area of a customs station and includes any area
in which imported goods or export goods are ordinarily kept before clearance
by Customs Authorities;
(12) “customs port” means any port appointed under clause (a) of section 7 to
be a customs port 7 [and includes a place appointed under clause (aa) of that
section to be an inland container depot];
(13) “customs station” means any customs port, customs airport or land customs
station;
(14) “dutiable goods” means any goods which are chargeable to duty and on
Collector of Customs” (w.e.f. 26-5-1995).
405\. Subs. by Act 27 of 1999, sec. 100, for “Assistant Commissioner of
Customs” (w.e.f. 11-5-1999). Earlier the words “Assistant Commissioner of
Customs” were substituted by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 50, for the words “Assistant
Collector of Customs” (w.e.f. 26-5-1995).
406\. Ins. by Act 12 of 1990, sec. 62 (w.e.f. 31-5-1990).
407\. Subs. by Act 2 of 2006, sec. 33 (w.e.f. 13-7-2006).
408\. Subs. by Act 22 of 2007, sec. 113, for clause (a) (w.e.f. 10-10-2007).
Earlier clause (a) was substituted by Act 27 of 1988, sec. 3 (w.e.f.
16-8-1988). Clause (a), before substitution by Act 22 of 2007, stood as under:
409\. Clause (c) omitted by Act 26 of 1988, sec. 80 (w.e.f. 13-5-1988).
410\. Added by Act 36 of 1973, sec. 12 (w.e.f. 1-9-1973).
411\. Ins. by Act 23 of 2004, sec. 73 (w.e.f. 10-9-2004).
412\. Subs. by Act 27 of 1999, sec. 115, for “bill of transshipment” (w.e.f.
11-5-1999).
413\. Ins. by Act 33 of 2009, sec. 91 (w.e.f. 19-8-2009).
(6) “Board” means the 4 [Central Board of Excise and Customs constituted under
the Central Boards of Revenue Act, 1963 (54 of 1963)];
(7) “coastal goods” means goods, other than imported goods, transported in a
vessel from one port in India to another;
5 [(7A) “Commissioner (Appeals)” means a person appointed to be a Commissioner
of Customs (Appeals) under sub-section (1) of section 4;]
6 [(8) “Commissioner of Customs”, except for the purposes of Chapter XV,
includes an Additional Commissioner of Customs;]
(9) “conveyance” includes a vessel, an aircraft and a vehicle;
(10) “customs airport” means any airport appointed under clause (a) of section
7 to be a customs airport;
(11) “customs area” means the area of a customs station and includes any area
in which imported goods or export goods are ordinarily kept before clearance
by Customs Authorities;
(12) “customs port” means any port appointed under clause (a) of section 7 to
be a customs port 7 [and includes a place appointed under clause (aa) of that
section to be an inland container depot];
(13) “customs station” means any customs port, customs airport or land customs
station;
(14) “dutiable goods” means any goods which are chargeable to duty and on
which duty has not been paid;
(15) “duty” means a duty of customs leviable under this Act;
(16) “entry”, in relation to goods means an entry made in a bill of entry,
shipping bill or bill of export and includes in the case of goods imported or
to be exported by post, the entry referred to in section 82 or the entry made
under the regulations made under section 84;
(17) “examination”, in relation to any goods, includes measurement and
weighment thereof;
(18) “export”, with its grammatical variations and cognate expressions, means
taking out of India to a place outside India;
(19) “export goods” means any goods which are to be taken out of India to a
Collector of Customs” (w.e.f. 26-5-1995).
405\. Subs. by Act 27 of 1999, sec. 100, for “Assistant Commissioner of
Customs” (w.e.f. 11-5-1999). Earlier the words “Assistant Commissioner of
Customs” were substituted by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 50, for the words “Assistant
Collector of Customs” (w.e.f. 26-5-1995).
406\. Ins. by Act 12 of 1990, sec. 62 (w.e.f. 31-5-1990).
407\. Subs. by Act 2 of 2006, sec. 33 (w.e.f. 13-7-2006).
408\. Subs. by Act 22 of 2007, sec. 113, for clause (a) (w.e.f. 10-10-2007).
Earlier clause (a) was substituted by Act 27 of 1988, sec. 3 (w.e.f.
16-8-1988). Clause (a), before substitution by Act 22 of 2007, stood as under:
409\. Clause (c) omitted by Act 26 of 1988, sec. 80 (w.e.f. 13-5-1988).
410\. Added by Act 36 of 1973, sec. 12 (w.e.f. 1-9-1973).
411\. Ins. by Act 23 of 2004, sec. 73 (w.e.f. 10-9-2004).
412\. Subs. by Act 27 of 1999, sec. 115, for “bill of transshipment” (w.e.f.
11-5-1999).
413\. Ins. by Act 33 of 2009, sec. 91 (w.e.f. 19-8-2009).
(6) “Board” means the 4 [Central Board of Excise and Customs constituted under
the Central Boards of Revenue Act, 1963 (54 of 1963)];
(7) “coastal goods” means goods, other than imported goods, transported in a
vessel from one port in India to another;
5 [(7A) “Commissioner (Appeals)” means a person appointed to be a Commissioner
of Customs (Appeals) under sub-section (1) of section 4;]
6 [(8) “Commissioner of Customs”, except for the purposes of Chapter XV,
includes an Additional Commissioner of Customs;]
(9) “conveyance” includes a vessel, an aircraft and a vehicle;
(10) “customs airport” means any airport appointed under clause (a) of section
7 to be a customs airport;
(11) “customs area” means the area of a customs station and includes any area
in which imported goods or export goods are ordinarily kept before clearance
by Customs Authorities;
(12) “customs port” means any port appointed under clause (a) of section 7 to
be a customs port 7 [and includes a place appointed under clause (aa) of that
section to be an inland container depot];
(13) “customs station” means any customs port, customs airport or land customs
station;
(14) “dutiable goods” means any goods which are chargeable to duty and on
which duty has not been paid;
(15) “duty” means a duty of customs leviable under this Act;
(16) “entry”, in relation to goods means an entry made in a bill of entry,
shipping bill or bill of export and includes in the case of goods imported or
to be exported by post, the entry referred to in section 82 or the entry made
under the regulations made under section 84;
(17) “examination”, in relation to any goods, includes measurement and
weighment thereof;
(18) “export”, with its grammatical variations and cognate expressions, means
taking out of India to a place outside India;
(19) “export goods” means any goods which are to be taken out of India to a
Collector of Customs” (w.e.f. 26-5-1995).
405\. Subs. by Act 27 of 1999, sec. 100, for “Assistant Commissioner of
Customs” (w.e.f. 11-5-1999). Earlier the words “Assistant Commissioner of
Customs” were substituted by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 50, for the words “Assistant
Collector of Customs” (w.e.f. 26-5-1995).
406\. Ins. by Act 12 of 1990, sec. 62 (w.e.f. 31-5-1990).
407\. Subs. by Act 2 of 2006, sec. 33 (w.e.f. 13-7-2006).
408\. Subs. by Act 22 of 2007, sec. 113, for clause (a) (w.e.f. 10-10-2007).
Earlier clause (a) was substituted by Act 27 of 1988, sec. 3 (w.e.f.
16-8-1988). Clause (a), before substitution by Act 22 of 2007, stood as under:
409\. Clause (c) omitted by Act 26 of 1988, sec. 80 (w.e.f. 13-5-1988).
410\. Added by Act 36 of 1973, sec. 12 (w.e.f. 1-9-1973).
411\. Ins. by Act 23 of 2004, sec. 73 (w.e.f. 10-9-2004).
412\. Subs. by Act 27 of 1999, sec. 115, for “bill of transshipment” (w.e.f.
11-5-1999).
413\. Ins. by Act 33 of 2009, sec. 91 (w.e.f. 19-8-2009).
