Central Government Act
the Central Excise Act, 1944
CENTRAL EXCISE ACT, 1944 The Central Excise Act, 1944
1. Short title, extent and commencement.—1[
(1) This Act may be called the Central Excise Act, 1944.]
(2) It extends to the whole of India 2[***].
(3) It shall come into force on such date3 as the Central Govern­ment may, by
notification in the Official Gazette, appoint in this behalf.
The Central Excise Act, 1944
2. Definitions.—In this Act, unless there is anything repugnant in the subject or context,— 1[
(a) “adjudicating authority” means any authority competent to pass any order
or decision under this Act, but does not include the Central Board of Excise
and Customs constituted under the Central Boards of Revenue Act, 1963 (54 of
1963), 2[Commissioner of Central Excise (Appeals)] or Appellate Tribunal;]
3[(aa) “Appellate Tribunal” means the Customs, Excise and 4[Service Tax]
Appellate Tribunal constituted under section 129 of the Customs Act, 1962 (52
of 1962);] 5[(aaa)] “broker” or “commission agent” means a person who in the
ordinary course of business makes contracts for the sale or purchase of
excisable goods for others; 6[(b)] “Central Excise Officer” means the Chief
Commissioner of Central Excise, Commissioner of Central Excise, Commissioner
304\. Subs. by Act 27 of 1999, sec. 119(a), for “Assistant Commissioner of
Central Excise” (w.e.f. 11-5-1999). Earlier the words “Assistant Commissioner
of Central Excise” were substituted by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 70, for “Assistant
Collector of Central Excise” (w.e.f. 26-5-1995).
305\. Subs. by Act 27 of 1999, sec. 119(a), for “Deputy Commissioner of
Central Excise” (w.e.f. 11-5-1999). Earlier the words “Deputy Commissioner of
Central Excise” were substituted by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 70, for “Deputy
Collector of Central Excise (w.e.f. 26-5-1995).
306\. Ins. by Act 79 of 1985, sec.7 (w.e.f. 27-12-1985).
307\. Subs. by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 70, for “Collector of Central Excise
(Appeals)” (w.e.f. 26-5-1995).
308\. Ins. by Act 12 of 1990, sec. 65 (w.e.f. 31-5-1990).
309\. Ins. by Act 29 of 2006, sec. 38 (w.e.f. 13-7-2006).
310\. Subs. by Act 22 of 1973, sec. 4, for section 38 (w.e.f. 1-9-1973).
311\. Subs. by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 79, for sub-section (2) (w.e.f.
26-5-1995). Earlier sub-section (2) was substituted by Act 29 of 1988, sec.
Commissioner of Central Excise, Commissioner of Central Excise, Commissioner
of Central Excise (Appeals), Additional Commissioner of Central Excise,
7[Joint Commissioner of Central Excise,] Deputy Commissioner of Central
Excise, Assistant Commis­sioner of Central Excise or any other officer of the
Central Excise Department, or any person (including an officer of the State
Government) invested by the Central Board of Excise and Customs constituted
under the Central Boards of Revenue Act, 1963 (54 of 1963) with any of the
powers of a Central Excise Officer under this Act;
(c) “curing” includes wilting, drying, fermenting and any process for
rendering an unmanufactured product fit for marketing or manufacture;
(d) “excisable goods” means goods specified in 8[the First Schedule and the
Second Schedule] to the Central Excise Tariff Act, 1985 (5 of 1986)] as being
subject to a duty of excise and includes salt;
(e) “factory” means any premises, including the precincts there­of, wherein or
in any part of which excisable goods other than salt are manufactured, or
wherein or in any part of which any manufacturing process connected with the
production of these goods is being carried on or is ordinarily carried on;
9[(ee) “fund” means the Consumer Welfare Fund established under section 12C];
10[(f) “manufacture” includes any process —
(i) incidental or ancillary to the completion of a manufactured product;
(ii) which is specified in relation to any goods in the section or Chapter
notes of 11[The First Schedule] to the Central Excise Tariff Act, 1985 (5 of
1986) as amounting to 12[manufacture; or] 13[(iii) which in relation to the
goods specified in the Third Schedule, involves packing or repacking of such
goods in a unit container or labelling or re-labelling of containers including
the declaration or alteration of retail sale price on it or adoption of any
other treatment on the goods to render the product marketable to the
consumer;] And the word “manufacture” shall be construed accordingly and shall
include not only a person who employs hired labour in the production or
manufacture of excisable goods, but also any person who engages in their
production or manufacture on his own account; 14[(ff) “National Tax Tribunal”
means the National Tax Tribunal established under section 3 of the National
Tax Tribunal Act, 2005 (49 of 2005);]
(g) “prescribed” means prescribed by rules made under this Act;
(h) “sale” and “purchase”, with their grammatical variations and cognate
expressions, mean any transfer of the possession of goods by one person to
another in the ordinary course of trade or business for cash or deferred
payment or other valuable consider­ation; 15[***] 16[***]
(k) “wholesale dealer” means a person who buys or sells excisable goods
wholesale for the purpose of trade or manufacture, and includes a broker or
commission agent who, in addition to making contracts for the sale or purchase
of excisable goods for others, stocks such goods belonging to others as an
agent for the purpose of sale.
The Central Excise Act, 1944
1[2A. References of certain expressions.—In this Act, save as otherwise
expressly provided and unless the context otherwise requires, references to
the expressions “duty”, “duties”, “duty of excise” and “duties of excise”
shall be construed to include a reference to “Central Value Added Tax
(CENVAT)”.]
3. Duties specified in the Schedule to the Central Excise Tariff Act, 1985 to be levied.—
(1) 1 [There shall be levied and collected in such manner as may be
prescribed,—
(a) 2 [a duty of excise, to be called the Central Value Added Tax (CENVAT)] on
all excisable goods 3 [(excluding goods produced or manufactured in special
economic zones)]* which are produced or manufactured in India as,] and at the
rates, set forth in the First Schedule to the Central Excise Tariff Act, 1985
(5 of 1986); tc" (a) 1[a duty of excise, to be called the Central Value Added
Tax (CENVAT)] on all excisable goods 2[(excluding goods produced or
manufactured in special economic zones)]* which are produced or manufactured
in India as,] and at the rates, set forth in the First Schedule to the Central
Excise Tariff Act, 1985 (5 of 1986);"
(b) a special duty of excise, in addition to the duty of excise specified in
clause (a) above, on excisable goods 3 [(excluding goods produced or
manufactured in special economic zones)]* specified in the Second Schedule to
the Central Excise Tariff Act, 1985 (5 of 1986) which are produced or
manufactured in India, as, and at the rates, set forth in the said Second
Schedule:] tc" (b) a special duty of excise, in addition to the duty of excise
specified in clause (a) above, on excisable goods 2[(excluding goods produced
or manufactured in special economic zones)]* specified in the Second Schedule
to the Central Excise Tariff Act, 1985 (5 of 1986) which are produced or
manufactured in India, as, and at the rates, set forth in the said Second
Schedule\:]" 4 [Provided that the duties of excise which shall be levied and
collected on any 5[excisable goods which are produced or manufac­tured,— 6
[***]
(ii) by a hundred per cent export oriented undertaking and 7 [brought to any
other place in India], tc" (ii) by a hundred per cent export oriented
undertaking and 6[brought to any other place in India]," shall be an amount
equal to] the aggregate of the duties of customs which would be leviable 8
[under the Customs Act, 1962 (52 of 1962) or any other law for the time being
in force] on like goods produced or manufactured outside India if imported
into India, and where the said duties of customs are chargeable by reference
to their value, the value of such excisable goods shall, notwithstanding
anything contained in any other provision of this Act, be determined in
accordance with the provisions of the Customs Act, 1962 and the Customs Tariff
Act, 1975 (51 of 1975). tc "shall be an amount equal to] the aggregate of the
duties of customs which would be leviable 7[under the Customs Act, 1962 (52 of
1962) or any other law for the time being in force] on like goods produced or
manufactured outside India if imported into India, and where the said duties
of customs are chargeable by reference to their value, the value of such
excisable goods shall, notwithstanding anything contained in any other
provision of this Act, be determined in accordance with the provisions of the
Customs Act, 1962 and the Customs Tariff Act, 1975 (51 of 1975)." 9
[Explanation 1.—Where in respect of any such like goods, any duty of customs
leviable for the time being in force is leviable at different rates, then,
such duty shall, for the purposes of this proviso, be deemed to be leviable at
the highest of those rates.] 10 [Explanation 2.—In this proviso,— 11 [***] 11
[***]
(ii) “hundred per cent export-oriented undertaking” means an undertaking which
has been approved as a hundred per cent. ex­port-oriented undertaking by the
Board appointed in this behalf by the Central Government in exercise of the
powers conferred by section 14 of the Industries (Development and Regulation)
Act, 1951 (65 of 1951), and the rules made under that Act.]] tc" (ii) “hundred
per cent export-oriented undertaking” means an undertaking which has been
approved as a hundred per cent. ex­port-oriented undertaking by the Board
appointed in this behalf by the Central Government in exercise of the powers
conferred by section 14 of the Industries (Development and Regulation) Act,
1951 (65 of 1951), and the rules made under that Act.]]"
12 [(iii) “Special Economic Zone” has the meaning assigned to it in clause
(za) of section 2 of the Special Economic Zones Act, 2005 (28 of 2005).]
13 [(1A) The provisions of sub-section (1) shall apply in respect of all
excisable goods other than salt which are produced or manufactured in India
by, or on behalf of, Government, as they apply in respect of goods which are
not produced or manufactured by Government.]
(2) The Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, fix,
for the purpose of levying the said duties, tariff values of any articles
enumerated, either specifically or under general headings, in 14 [the First
Schedule and the Second Schedule] to the Central Excise Tariff Act, 1985 (5 of
1986)] as chargeable with duty ad valorem and may alter any tariff values for
the time being in force.
15 [(3) Different tariff values may be fixed—
(a) for different classes or descriptions of the same excisable goods; or tc"
(a) for different classes or descriptions of the same excisable goods; or"
(b) for excisable goods of the same class or description— tc" (b) for
excisable goods of the same class or description—"
(i) produced or manufactured by different classes of producers or
manufacturers; or tc" (i) produced or manufactured by different classes of
producers or manufacturers; or"
(ii) sold to different classes of buyers: tc" (ii) sold to different classes
of buyers\:" Provided that in fixing different tariff values in respect of
excisable goods falling under sub-clause (i) or sub-clause (ii), regard shall
be had to the sale prices charged by the different classes of producers or
manufacturers or, as the case may be, the normal practice of the wholesale
trade in such goods.]
16 [ 3A Power of Central Government to charge excise duty on the basis of
capacity of production in respect of notified goods. —
(1) Notwithstanding anything contained in section 3, where the Central
Government, having regard to the nature of the process of manufacture or
production of excisable goods of any specified description, the extent of
evasion of duty in regard to such goods or such other factors as may be
relevant, is of the opinion that it is necessary to safeguard the interest of
revenue, specify, by notification in the Official Gazette, such goods as
notified goods and there shall be levied and collected duty of excise on such
goods in accordance with the provisions of this section.
(2) Where a notification is issued under sub-section (1), the Central
Government may, by rules,—
(a) provide the manner for determination of the annual capacity of production
of the factory, in which such goods are produced, by an officer not below the
rank of Assistant Commissioner of Central Excise and such annual capacity
shall be deemed to be the annual production of such goods by such factory; or
(b) (i) specify the factor relevant to the production of such goods and the
quantity that is deemed to be produced by use of a unit of such factor; and
(ii) provide for the determination of the annual capacity of production of the
factory in which such goods are produced on the basis of such factor by an
officer not below the rank of Assistant Commissioner of Central Excise and
such annual capacity of production shall be deemed to be the annual production
of such goods by such factory: Provided that where a factory producing
notified goods is in operation during a part of the year only, the annual
production thereof shall be calculated on proportionate basis of the annual
capacity of production: Provided further that in a case where the factor
relevant to the production is altered or modified at any time during the year,
the annual production shall be re-determined on a proportionate basis having
regard to such alteration or modification.
(3) The duty of excise on notified goods shall be levied, at such rate, on the
unit of production or, as the case may be, on such factor relevant to the
production, as the Central Government may, by notification in the Official
Gazette, specify, and collected in such manner as may be prescribed: Provided
that where a factory producing notified goods did not produce the notified
goods during any continuous period of fifteen days or more, the duty
calculated on a proportionate basis shall be abated in respect of such period
if the manufacturer of such goods fulfils such conditions as may be
prescribed.
(4) The provisions of this section shall not apply to goods produced or
manufactured, by a hundred per cent. export-oriented undertaking and brought
to any other place in India. Explanation 1. —For the removal of doubts, it is
hereby clarified that for the purposes of section 3 of the Customs Tariff Act,
1975 (51 of 1975), the duty of excise leviable on the notified goods shall be
deemed to be the duty of excise leviable on such goods under the First
Schedule and the Second Schedule to the Central Excise Tariff Act, 1985 (5 of
1986), read with any notification for the time being in force. Explanation 2.
—For the purposes of this section, the expression “hundred per cent. export-
oriented undertaking” shall have the meaning assigned to it in section 3.]
The Central Excise Act, 1944
1[4. Valuation of excisable goods for purposes of charging of duty of excise.—
(1) Where under this Act, the duty of excise is chargeable on any excisable
goods with reference to their value, then, on each removal of the goods, such
value shall—
(a) in a case where the goods are sold by the assessee, for delivery at the
time and place of the removal, the assessee and the buyer of goods are not
related and the price is the sole consideration for the sale, be the
transaction value;
(b) in any other case, including the case where the goods are not sold, be the
value determined in such manner as may be prescribed. 2[Explanation.—For the
removal of doubts, it is hereby declared that the price-cum-duty of the
excisable goods sold by the assessee shall be the price actually paid to him
for the goods sold and the money value of the additional consideration, if
any, flowing directly or indirectly from the buyer to the assessee in
connection with the sale of such goods, and such price-cum-duty, excluding
sales tax and other taxes, if any, actually paid, shall be deemed to include
the duty payable on such goods.]
(2) The provisions of this section shall not apply in respect of any excisable
goods for which a tariff value has been fixed under sub-section (2) of section
3.
(3) For the purposes of this section,—
(a) “assessee” means the person who is liable to pay the duty of excise under
this Act and includes his agent;
(b) persons shall be deemed to be “related” if—
(i) they are inter-connected undertakings;
(ii) they are relatives;
(iii) amongst them the buyer is a relative and distributor of the assessee, or
a sub-distributor of such distributor; or
(iv) they are so associated that they have interest, directly or indirectly,
in the business of each other. Explanation.—In this clause—
(i) “inter-connected undertakings” shall have the meaning assigned to it in
clause (g) of section 2 of the Monopolies and Restrictive Trade Practices Act,
1969 (64 of 1969); and
(ii) “relative” shall have the meaning assigned to it in clause (41) of
section 2 of the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956);
(c) “place of removal” means —
(i) a factory or any other place or premises of production or manufacture of
the excisable goods;
(ii) a warehouse or any other place on premises wherein the excisable goods
have been permitted to be deposited without 3[payment of duty;] 4[(iii) a
depot, premises of a consignment agent or any other place or premises from
where the excisable goods are to be sold after their clearance from the
factory;] from where such goods are removed; 4[(cc) "time of removal", in
respect of the excisable goods removed from the place of removal referred to
in sub-clause (iii) of clause (c), shall be deemed to be the time at which
such goods are cleared from the factory;]
(d) “transaction value” means the price actually paid or payable for the
goods, when sold, and includes in addition to the amount charged as price, any
amount that the buyer is liable to pay to, or on behalf of, the assessee, by
reason of, or in connection with the sale, whether payable at the time of the
sale or at any other time, including, but not limited to, any amount charged
for, or to make provision for, advertising or publicity, marketing and selling
organization expenses, storage, outward handling, servicing, warranty,
commission or any other matter; but does not include the amount of duty of
excise, sales tax and other taxes, if any, actually paid or actually payable
on such goods.]
The Central Excise Act, 1944
1[4A. Valuation of excisable goods with reference to retail sale price.—
(1) The Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette,
specify any goods, in relation to which it is required, under the provisions
of the Standards of Weights and Measures Act, 1976 (60 of 1976) or the rules
made thereunder or under any other law for the time being in force, to declare
on the package thereof the retail sale price of such goods, to which the
provisions of sub-section (2) shall apply.
(2) Where the goods specified under sub-section (1) are excisable goods and
are chargeable to duty of excise with reference to value, then,
notwithstanding anything contained in section 4, such value shall be deemed to
be the retail sale price declared on such goods less such amount of abatement,
if any, from such retail sale price as the Central Government may allow by
notification in the Official Gazette.
(3) The Central Government may, for the purpose of allowing any abatement
under sub-section (2), take into account the amount of duty of excise, sales
tax and other taxes, if any, payable on such goods. 2[(4) Where any goods
specified under sub-section (1) are excisable goods and the manufacturer—
(a) removes such goods from the place of manufacture, without declaring the
retail sale price of such goods on the packages or declares a retail sale
price which is not the retail sale price as required to be declared under the
provisions of the Act, rules or other law as referred to in sub-section (1);
or
(b) tampers with, obliterates or alters the retail sale price declared on the
package of such goods after their removal from the place of manufacture, then,
such goods shall be liable to confiscation and the retail sale price of such
goods shall be ascertained in the prescribed manner and such price shall be
deemed to be the retail sale price for the purposes of this section.
Explanation 1.—For the purposes of this section, "retail sale price" means the
maximum price at which the excisable goods in packaged form may be sold to the
ultimate consumer and includes all taxes, local or otherwise, freight,
transport charges, commission payable to dealers, and all charges towards
advertisement, delivery, packing, forwarding and the like and the price is the
sole consideration for such sale: Provided that in case the provisions of the
Act, rules or other law as referred to in sub-section (1) require to declare
on the package, the retail sale price excluding any taxes, local or otherwise,
the retail sale price shall be construed accordingly. Explanation 2.—For the
purposes of this section,—
(a) where on the package of any excisable goods more than one retail sale
price is declared, the maximum of such retail sale prices shall be deemed to
be the retail sale price;
(b) where the retail sale price, declared on the package of any excisable
goods at the time of its clearance from the place of manufacture, is altered
to increase the retail sale price, such altered retail sale price shall be
deemed to be the retail sale price;
(c) where different retail sale prices are declared on different packages for
the sale of any excisable goods in packaged form in different areas, each such
retail sale price shall be the retail sale price for the purposes of valuation
of the excisable goods intended to be sold in the area to which the retail
sale price relates.]]
The Central Excise Act, 1944
1[5. Remission of duty on goods found deficient in quantity.—
(1) The Central Government may, by rules made under this section, provide for
remission of duty of excise leviable on any excisable goods which due to any
natural cause are found to be deficient in quantity.
(2) Any rules made under sub-section (1) may, having regard to the nature of
the excisable goods or of processing or of curing thereof, the period of their
storage or transit and other rele­vant considerations, fix the limit or limits
of percentage beyond which no such remission shall be allowed: Provided that
different limit or limits of percentage may be fixed for different varieties
of the same excisable goods or for different areas or for different seasons.]
24 [5A. Power to grant exemption from duty of excise.—
(1) If the Central Government is satisfied that it is necessary in the public
interest so to do, it may, by notification in the Official Gazette, exempt
generally either absolutely or subject to such conditions (to be fulfilled
before or after removal) as may be specified in the notification, excisable
goods of any specified description from the whole or any part of the duty of
excise leviable thereon: Provided that, unless specifically provided in such
notification, no exemption therein shall apply to excisable goods which are
produced or manufactured—
(i) in a 25 [free trade zone 26 [or a special economic zone]] and brought to
any other place in India; or tc" (i) in a 2[free trade zone 3[or a special
economic zone]] and brought to any other place in India; or"
(ii) by a hundred per cent. export-oriented undertaking and 27 [brought to any
other place in India]. tc" (ii) by a hundred per cent. export-oriented
undertaking and 4[brought to any other place in India]." Explanation.—In this
proviso, 25 [“free trade zone” 26 [,“special economic zone”]] and “hundred per
cent. export-oriented undertaking” shall have the same mean­ings as in
Explanation 2 to sub-section (1) of section 3.
28 [(1A) For the removal of doubts, it is hereby declared that where an
exemption under sub-section (1) in respect of any excisable goods from the
whole of the duty of excise leviable thereon has been granted absolutely, the
manufacturer of such excisable goods shall not pay the duty of excise on such
goods.]
29 [(2) If the Central Government is satisfied that it is necessary in the
public interest so to do, it may, by special order in each case, exempt from
payment of duty of excise, under circumstances of an exceptional nature to be
stated in such order, any excisable goods on which duty of excise is
leviable.]
30 [(2A) The Central Government may, if it considers it necessary or expedient
so to do for the purpose of clarifying the scope or applicability of any
notification issued under sub-section (1) or order issued under sub-section
(2) insert an explanation in such notification or order, as the case may be,
by notification in the
(3) An exemption under sub-section (1) or sub-section (2) in respect of any
excisable goods from any part of the duty of excise leviable thereon (the duty
of excise leviable thereon being hereinafter referred to as the statutory
duty) may be granted by providing for the levy of a duty on such goods at a
rate ex­pressed in a form or method different from the form or method in which
the statutory duty is leviable and any exemption granted in relation to any
excisable goods in the manner provided in this sub-section shall have effect
subject to the condition that the duty of excise chargeable on such goods
shall in no case exceed the statutory duty. Explanation.—“Form or method”, in
relation to a rate of duty of excise means the basis, namely, valuation,
weight, number, length, area, volume or other measure with reference to which
the duty is leviable.
(4) Every notification issued under sub-rule (1), and every order made under
sub-rule (2) of rule 8 of the Central Excise Rules, 1944, and in force
immediately before the commencement of the Customs and Central Excise Laws
(Amendment) Act, 1987 shall be deemed to have been issued or made under the
provisions of this section and shall continue to have the same force and
effect after such commencement until it is amended, varied, rescinded or
superseded under the provisions of this section.]
31 [(5) Every notification issued under sub-section (1) 32 [or sub-section
(2A)] shall,—
(a) unless otherwise provided, come into force on the date of its issue by the
Central Government for publication in the Official Gazette; tc" (a) unless
otherwise provided, come into force on the date of its issue by the Central
Government for publication in the Official Gazette;"
(b) also be published and offered for sale on the date of its issue by the
Directorate of Publicity and Public Relations, Customs and Central Excise, New
Delhi, under the Central Board of Excise and Customs constituted under the
Central Boards of Revenue Act, 1963 (54 of 1963). tc" (b) also be published
and offered for sale on the date of its issue by the Directorate of Publicity
and Public Relations, Customs and Central Excise, New Delhi, under the Central
Board of Excise and Customs constituted under the Central Boards of Revenue
Act, 1963 (54 of 1963)."
(6) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (5), where a
notification comes into force on a date later than the date of its issue, the
same shall be published and offered for sale by the said Directorate of
Publicity and Public Relations on a date on or before the date on which the
said notification comes into force.]
The Central Excise Act, 1944
1[5B. Non-reversal of CENVAT credit.—Where an assessee has paid duty of excise
on a final product and has been allowed credit of the duty or tax or cess paid
on inputs, capital goods and input services used in making of the said
product, but subsequently the process of making the said product is held by
the court as not chargeable to excise duty, the Central Government may, by
notification, order for non-reversal of such credit allowed to the assessee
subject to such conditions as may be specified in the said notification:
Provided that the order for non-reversal of credit shall not apply where an
assessee has preferred a claim for refund of excise duty paid by him: Provided
further that the Central Government may also specify in the notification
referred to above for non-reversal of credit, if any, taken by the buyer of
the said product.]
The Central Excise Act, 1944
1[6. Registration of certain persons.—Any prescribed person who is engaged in—
(a) the production or manufacture or any process of production or manufacture
of any specified goods included in 2[the First Schedule and the Second
Schedule] to the Central Excise Tariff Act, 1985 (5 of 1986), or
(b) the wholesale purchase or sale (whether on his own account or as a broker
or commission agent) or the storage of any specified goods included in 2[the
First Schedule and the Second Schedule] to the Central Excise Tariff Act, 1985
(5 of 1986), shall get himself registered with the proper officer in such
manner as may be prescribed.]
The Central Excise Act, 1944
7. Form and Conditions of licence.—[Rep. by the Finance Act, 1992 (18 of 1992), sec. 113 (w.e.f. 14-5-1992).]
The Central Excise Act, 1944
8. Restriction on possession of goods specified in the Second Schedule.—From such date as may be specified in this behalf by the Central Government by notification in the Official Gazette, no person shall, except as provided by rules made under this Act, have in his possession 1[any goods specified in the Second Sched­ule] in excess of such quantity as may be prescribed for the purposes of this section as the maximum amount of such goods or of any variety of such goods which may be possessed at any one time by such a person.
The Central Excise Act, 1944
9. Offences and penalties.—1[
(1) ] Whoever commits any of the following offences, namely:— 2[(a)
contravenes any of the provisions of section 8 or of a rule made under clause
(iii) or clause (xxvii) of sub-section (2) of section 37;]
(b) evades the payment of any duty payable under this Act; 3[(bb) removes any
excisable goods in contravention of any of the provisions of this Act or any
rule made thereunder or in any way concerns himself with such removal;
(bbb) acquires possession of, or in any way concerns himself in transporting,
depositing, keeping, concealing, selling or pur­chasing, or in any other
manner deals with, any excisable goods which he knows or has reason to believe
are liable to confisca­tion under this Act or any rule made thereunder;]
4[(bbbb) contravenes any of the provisions of this Act or the rules made
thereunder in relation to credit of any duty allowed to be utilised towards
payment of excise duty on final products;]
(c) fails to supply any information which he is required by rules made under
this Act to supply, or (unless with a reasonable be­lief, the burden of
proving which shall be upon him, that the information supplied by him is true)
supplies false information;
(d) attempts to commit, or abets the commission of, any of the offences
mentioned in clauses (a) and (b) of this section; 5[shall be punishable,—
(i) in the case of an offence relating to any excisable goods, the duty
leviable thereon under this Act exceeds one lakh of rupees, with imprisonment
for a term which may extend to seven years and with fine: Provided that in the
absence of special and adequate reasons to the contrary to be recorded in the
judgment of the Court such imprisonment shall not be for a term of less than
six months;
(ii) in any other case, with imprisonment for a term which may extend to three
years or with fine or with both.] 6[(2) If any person convicted of an offence
under this section is again convicted of an offence under this section, then,
he shall be punishable for the second and for every subsequent offence with
imprisonment for a term which may extend to seven years and with fine:
Provided that in the absence of special and adequate reasons to the contrary
to be recorded in the judgment of the Court such imprisonment shall not be for
a term of less than six months.
(3) For the purposes of sub-sections (1) and (2), the following shall not be
considered as special and adequate reasons for awarding a sentence of
imprisonment for a term of less than six months, namely:—
(i) the fact that the accused has been convicted for the first time for an
offence under this Act;
(ii) the fact that in any proceeding under this Act, other than a prosecution,
the accused has been ordered to pay a penalty or the goods in relation to such
proceedings have been ordered to be confiscated or any other action has been
taken against him for the same act which constitutes the offence;
(iii) the fact that the accused was not the principal offender and was acting
merely as a carrier of goods or otherwise was a secondary party in the
commission of the offence;
(iv) the age of the accused.]
44 [ 9A Certain offences to be non-cognisable. — 45 [
(1) ] Notwithstanding anything contained in the Code of Criminal Procedure,
1898 (5 of 1898) 46 , offences under section 9 shall be deemed to be non-
cognisable within the meaning of that Code.]
48 [(2) Any offence under this Chapter may, either before or after the
institution of prosecution, be compounded by the Chief Commissioner of Central
Excise on payment, by the person accused of the offence to the Central
Government, of 49 [such compounding amount and in such manner of compounding]
as may be prescribed.] 49 [Provided that nothing contained in this sub-section
shall apply to—
(a) a person who has been allowed to compound once in respect of any of the
offences under the provisions of clause (a), (b), (bb), (bbb), (bbbb) or (c)
of sub-section (1) of section 9;
(b) a person who has been accused of committing an offence under this Act
which is also an offence under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances
Act, 1985 (61 of 1985);
(c) a person who has been allowed to compound once in respect of any offence
under this Chapter for goods of value exceeding rupees one crore;
(d) a person who has been convicted by the court under this Act on or after
the 30th day of December, 2005.]
The Central Excise Act, 1944
1[9AA. Offences by companies.—
(1) Where an offence under this Act has been committed by a company, every
person who at the time the offence was committed was in charge of, and was
responsible to, the company for the conduct of the business of the company, as
well as the company, shall be deemed to be guilty of the offence and shall be
liable to be proceeded against and punished accord­ingly: Provided that
nothing contained in this sub-section shall render any such person liable to
any punishment provided in this Act, if he proves that the offence was
committed without his knowledge or that he had exercised all due diligence to
prevent the commission of such offence.
(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1), where an offence
under this Act has been committed by a company and it is proved that the
offence has been committed with the consent or connivance of, or is
attributable to any neglect on the part of, any director, manager, secretary
or other officer of the company, such director, manager, secretary or other
officer shall also be deemed to be guilty of that offence and shall be liable
to be proceeded against and punished accordingly. Explanation.—For the
purposes of this section,—
(a) “company” means any body corporate and includes a firm or other
association of individuals; and
(b) “director” in relation to a firm means a partner in the firm.]
The Central Excise Act, 1944
1[9B. Power of Court to publish name, place of business, etc., of persons
convicted under the Act.—
(1) Where any person is convict­ed under this Act for contravention of any of
the provisions thereof, it shall be competent for the Court convicting the
person to cause the name and place of business or residence of such person,
nature of the contravention, the fact that the person has been so convicted
and such other particulars as the Court may consider to be appropriate in the
circumstances of the case, to be published at the expense of such person, in
such newspapers or in such manner as the Court may direct.
(2) No publication under sub-section (1) shall be made until the period for
preferring an appeal against the orders of the Court has expired without any
appeal having been preferred, or such an appeal, having been preferred, has
been disposed of.
(3) The expenses of any publication under sub-section (1) shall be recoverable
from the convicted person as if it were a fine imposed by the Court.]
The Central Excise Act, 1944
1[9C. Presumption of culpable mental state.—
(1) In any prosecution for an offence under this Act which requires a culpable
mental state on the part of the accused, the Court shall presume the existence
of such mental state but it shall be a defence for the accused to prove the
fact that he had no such mental state with respect to the act charged as an
offence in that prosecution. Explanation.—In this section,“culpable mental
state” includes intention, motive, knowledge of a fact, and belief in, or
reason to believe, a fact.
(2) For the purposes of this section, a fact is said to be proved only when
the Court believes it to exist beyond reasonable doubt and not merely when its
existence is established by a preponder­ance of probability.]
The Central Excise Act, 1944
1[9D. Relevancy of statements under certain circumstances.—
(1) A statement made and signed by a person before any Central Excise Officer
of a gazetted rank during the course of any inquiry or proceeding under this
Act shall be relevant, for the purpose of proving, in any prosecution for an
offence under this Act, the truth of the facts which it contains,—
(a) when the person who made the statement is dead or cannot be found, or is
incapable of giving evidence, or is kept out of the way by the adverse party,
or whose presence cannot be obtained without an amount of delay or expense
which, under the circum­stances of the case, the Court considers unreasonable;
or
(b) when the person who made the statement is examined as a witness in the
case before the Court and the Court is of opinion that, having regard to the
circumstances of the case, the statement should be admitted in evidence in the
interests of justice.
(2) The provisions of sub-section (1) shall, so far as may be, apply in
relation to any proceedings under this Act, other than a proceeding before a
Court, as they apply in relation to a pro­ceeding before a Court.]
The Central Excise Act, 1944
1[9E. Application of section 562 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898, and
of the Probation of Offenders Act, 1958.—
(1) Nothing contained in section 562 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898
(5 of 1898)2, or in the Probation of Offenders Act, 1958 (20 of 1958), shall
apply to a person convicted of an offence under this Act unless that person is
under eighteen years of age.
(2) The provisions of sub-section (1) shall have effect notwith­standing
anything contained in sub-section (3) of section 9.]
The Central Excise Act, 1944
10. Power of Courts to order forfeiture.—Any Court trying an offence under this Chapter may order the forfeiture to Government of any goods in respect of which the Court is satisfied that an offence under this Chapter has been committed, and may also order the forfeiture of any receptacles, packages or coverings in which such goods are contained and the animals, vehicles, vessels or other conveyances used in carrying the goods and any implements or machinery used in the manufacture of the goods.
The Central Excise Act, 1944
11. Recovery of sums due to Government.—In respect of duty and any other sums of any kind payable to the Central Government under any of the provisions of this Act or of the rules made thereunder, 1[including the amount required to be paid to the credit of the Central Government under section 11D] the officer empowered by the 2[Central Board of Excise and Customs constituted under the Central Boards of Reve­nue Act, 1963 (54 of 1963)] to levy such duty or require the payment of such sums may deduct the amount so payable from any money owing to the person from whom such sums may be recoverable or due which may be in his hands or under his disposal or con­trol, or may recover the amount by attachment and sale of excisa­ble goods belonging to such person; and if the amount payable is not so recovered he may prepare a certificate signed by him specifying the amount due from the person liable to pay the same and send it to the Collector of the district in which such person resides or conducts his business and the said Collector, on receipt of such certificate, shall proceed to recover from the said person the amount specified therein as if it were an arrear of land revenue]: 3[Provided that where the person (hereinafter referred to as predecessor) from whom the duty or any other sums of any kind, as specified in this section, is recoverable or due, transfers or otherwise disposes of his business or trade in whole or in part, or effects any change in the ownership thereof, in consequence of which he is succeeded in such busniess or trade by any other person, all excisable goods, materials, preparations, plants, machineries, vessels, utensils, implements and articles in the custody or possession of the person so succeeding may also be attached and sold by such officer empowered by the Central Board of Excise and Customs, after obtaining written approval from the Commissioner of Central Excise, for the purposes of recovering such duty or other sums recoverable or due from such predecessor at the time of such transfer or otherwise disposal or change.]
60 [ 11A Recovery of duties not levied or not paid or short-levied or short-
paid or erroneously refunded. —
(1) When any duty of excise has not been levied or paid or has been short-
levied or short-paid or 61 [erroneously refunded, whether or not such non-levy
or non-payment, short-levy or short payment or erroneous refund, as the case
may be, was on the basis of any approval, acceptance or assessment relating to
the rate of duty on or valuation of excisable goods under any other provisions
of this Act or the rules made thereunder], a Central Excise Officer may,
within 62 [one year] from the relevant date, serve notice on the person
chargeable with the duty which has not been levied or paid or which has been
short-levied or short-paid or to whom the refund has erroneously been made,
requiring him to show cause why he should not pay the amount specified in the
notice: Provided that where any duty of excise has not been levied or paid or
has been short-levied or short-paid or erroneously refunded by reason of
fraud, collusion or any wilful mis-statement or suppres­sion of facts, or
contravention of any of the provisions of this Act or of the rules made
thereunder with intent to evade payment of duty, by such person or his agent,
the provisions of this sub-section shall have effect, 63 [as if 64 [***]] for
the words 3 [one year], the words “five years” were substituted: 65 [***]
Explanation .—Where the service of the notice is stayed by an order of a
Court, the period of such stay shall be excluded in computing the aforesaid
period of 62 [one year] or five years, as the case may be.
66 [(1A) When any duty of excise has not been levied or paid or has been
short-levied or short paid or erroneously refunded, by reason of fraud,
collusion or any wilful misstatement or suppression of facts, or contravention
of any of the provisions of this Act or the rules made thereunder with intent
to evade payment of duty, by such person or his agent, to whom a notice is
served under the proviso to sub-section (1) by the Central Excise Officer, may
pay duty in full or in part as may be accepted by him, and the interest
payable thereon under section 11AB and penalty equal to twenty-five per cent.
of the duty specified in the notice or the duty so accepted by such person
within thirty days of the receipt of the notice.]
(2) 67 [ 68 [Central Excise Officer]] shall, after considering the
representation, if any, made by the person on whom notice is served under sub-
section (1), determine the amount of duty of excise due from such person (not
being in excess of the amount specified in the notice) and thereupon such
person shall pay the amount so determined: 69 [Provided that if such person
has paid the duty in full together with, interest and penalty under sub-
section (1A), the proceedings in respect of such person and other persons to
whom notice is served under sub-section (1) shall, without prejudice to the
provisions of sections 9, 9A and 9AA, be deemed to be conclusive as to the
matters stated therein: Provided further that, if such person has paid duty in
part, interest and penalty under sub-section (1A), the Central Excise Officer,
shall determine the amount of duty or interest not being in excess of the
amount partly due from such person.]
70 [(2A) Where any notice has been served on a person under sub-section (1),
the Central Excise Officer,—
(a) in case any duty of excise has not been levied or paid or has been short-
levied or short-paid or erroneously refunded, by reason of fraud, collusion or
any wilful misstatement or suppression of facts, or contravention of any of
the provisions of this Act or of the rules made thereunder with intent to
evade payment of duty, where it is possible to do so, shall determine the
amount of such duty, within a period of one year; and
(b) in any other case, where it is possible to do so, shall determine the
amount of duty of excise which has not been levied or paid or has been short-
levied or short-paid or erroneously refunded, within a period of six months,
from the date of service of the notice on the person under sub-section (1).]
70 [(2B) Where any duty or excise has not been levied or paid or has been
short-levied or short-paid or erroneously refunded, the person, chargeable
with the duty, may pay the amount of duty 71 [on the basis of his own
ascertainment of such duty or on the basis of duty ascertained by a Central
Excise Officer] before service of notice on him under sub-section (1) in
respect of the duty, and inform the Central Excise Officer of such payment in
writing, who, on receipt of such information shall not serve any notice under
sub-section (1) in respect of the duty so paid: Provided that the Central
Excise Officer may determine the amount of short payment of duty, if any,
which in his opinion has not been paid by such person and then, the Central
Excise Officer shall proceed to recover such amount in the manner specified in
this section, and the period of “one year” referred to in sub- section (1)
shall be counted from the date of receipt of such information of payment.
Explanation 1. —Nothing contained in this sub-section shall apply in a case
where the duty was not levied or was not paid or was short-levied or was
short-paid or was erroneously refunded by reason of fraud, collusion or any
wilful mis-statement or suppression of facts, or contravention of any of the
provisions of this Act or of the rules made thereunder with intent to evade
payment of duty. Explanation 2. —For the removal of doubts, it is hereby
declared that the interest under section 11AB shall be payable on the amount
paid by the person under this sub-section and also on the amount of short-
payment of duty, if any, as may be determined by the Central Excise Officer,
but for this sub-section.] 72 [ Explanation 3 .—For the removal of doubts, it
is hereby declared that no penalty under any of the provisions of this Act or
the rules made thereunder shall be imposed in respect of payment of duty under
this sub-section and interest thereon.]
73 [(2C) The provisions of sub-section (2B) shall not apply to any case where
the duty had become payable or ought to have been paid before the date on
which the Finance Bill, 2001 receives the assent of the President.]
(3) For the purposes of this section—
(i) “refund” includes rebate of duty of excise on excisable goods exported out
of India or on excisable materials used in the manufacture of goods which are
exported out of India;
(ii) “relevant date” means,—
74 [(a) in the case of excisable goods on which duty of excise has not been
levied or paid or has been short-levied or short-paid—
(A) where under the rules made under this Act a periodical re­turn, showing
particulars of the duty paid on the excisable goods removed during the period
to which the said return relates, is to be filed by a manufacturer or a
producer or a licensee of a warehouse, as the case may be, the date on which
such return is so filed;
(B) where no periodical return as aforesaid is filed, the last date on which
such return is to be filed under the said rules;
(C) in any other case, the date on which the duty is to be paid under this Act
or the rules made thereunder;] This Act has been applied to—
(1) all the partially excluded areas in the State of Orissa by Orissa
Government Notification No. 1226-II-C-13/44-Com., dated 21st March, 1944;
(2) Darjeeling District with effect from 28th February, 1944, see Bengal
Government Notification No. 342-R, dated 22nd March, 1944;
(3) excluded areas in the State of Madras (with modifications), see Madras
Government Notification No. 37, Fort St. George Ga­zette, Pt. I, p. 281, dated
11th April, 1944;
(4) partially excluded areas in the State of Madras with effect from 28th
February, 1944, see Madras Government Notification No. 745-Public-Political,
dated 4th March, 1944. This Act has been extended to Goa, Daman and Diu by
Reg. 12 of 1962, sec. 3 and Sch.; to Dadra and Nagar Haveli by Reg. 6 of 1963,
sec. 2 and Sch. I and to the whole of the Union territory of Lak­shadweep by
Reg. 8 of 1965, sec. 3 and Sch.
(b) in a case where duty of excise is provisionally assessed under this Act or
the rules made thereunder, the date of adjust­ment of duty after the final
assessment thereof;
(c) in the case of excisable goods on which duty of excise has been
erroneously refunded, the date of such refund.]
The Central Excise Act, 1944
1[11AA. Interest on delayed payment of duty.—2[
(1) ] 3[Subject to the provisions contained in section 11AB, where a person]
chargeable with duty determined under sub-section (2) of section 11A, fails to
pay such duty within three months from the date of determination, he shall
pay, in addition to the duty, interest 4[at such rate not below 5[ten per
cent.] and not exceeding thirty-six per cent. per annum, as is for the time
being fixed by the Central Government, by notification in the Official
Gazette] on such duty from the date immediately after the expiry of the said
period of three months till the date of payment of such duty: Provided that
where a person chargeable with duty determined under sub-section (2) of
section 11A before the date on which the Finance Bill, 1995 receives the
assent of the President, fails to pay such duty within three months from such
date, then, such person shall be liable to pay interest under this section
from the date immediately after three months from such date, till the date of
payment of such duty. Explanation 1.—Where the duty determined to be payable
is reduced by the Commissioner (Appeals), Appellate Tribunal 6[, National Tax
Tribunal] or, as the case may be, the Court, the date of such determination
shall be the date on which an amount of duty is first determined to be
pay­able. Explanation 2.—Where the duty determined to be payable is in­creased
or further increased by the Commissioner (Appeals), Appellate Tribunal 6[,
National Tax Tribunal] or, as the case may be, the Court, the date of such
determination shall be,—
(a) for the amount of duty first determined to be payable, the date on which
the duty is so determined;
(b) for the amount of increased duty, the date of order by which the increased
amount of duty is first determined to be payable;
(c) for the amount of further increase of duty, the date of order on which the
duty is so further increased]. 7[(2) The provisions of sub-section (1) shall
not apply to cases where the duty becomes payable on and after the date on
which the Finance Bill, 2001 receives the assent of the President.]
The Central Excise Act, 1944
1[11AB. Interest on delayed payment of duty.—2[
(1) Where any duty of excise has not been levied or paid or has been short-
levied or short-paid or erroneously refunded, the person who is liable to pay
duty as determined under sub-section (2), or has paid the duty under sub-
section 2(B), of section 11A, shall, in addition to the duty, be liable to pay
interest at such rate not below 3[ten per cent.] and not exceeding thirty-six
per cent. per annum, as is for the time being fixed by the Central Government,
by notification in the Official Gazette, from the first date of the month
succeeding the month in which the duty ought to have been paid under this Act,
or from the date of such erroneous refund, as the case may be, but for the
provisions contained in sub-section (2), or sub-section (2B), of section 11A
till the date of payment of such duty: Provided that in such cases where the
duty becomes payable consequent to issue of an order, instruction or direction
by the Board under section 37B, and such amount of duty payable is voluntarily
paid in full, without reserving any right to appeal against such payment at
any subsequent stage, within forty-five days from the date of issue of such
order, instruction or direction as the case may be, no interest shall be
payable and in other cases the interest shall be payable on the whole of the
amount, including the amount already paid.] 4[(2) The provisions of sub-
section (1) shall not apply to cases where the duty had become payable or
ought to have been paid before the date on which the Finance Bill, 2001
receives the assent of the President.] Explanation 1.— Where the duty
determined to be payable is reduced by the Commissioner (Appeals), the
Appellate Tribunal 5[, National Tax Tribunal] or, as the case may be, the
Court, the interest shall be payable on such reduced amount of duty.
Explanation 2.—Where the duty determined to be payable is increased or further
increased by the Commissioner (Appeals), the Appellate Tribunal 5[, National
Tax Tribunal] or, as the case may be, the Court, the interest shall be payable
on such increased or further increased amount of duty.]
The Central Excise Act, 1944
1[11AC. Penalty for short-levy or non-levy of duty in certain cases.—Where any
duty of excise has not been levied or paid or has been short-levied or short-
paid or erroneously refunded by reasons of fraud, collusion or any wilful mis-
statement or suppression of facts, or contravention of any of the provisions
of this Act or of the rules made thereunder with intent to evade payment of
duty, the person who is liable to pay duty as determined under sub-section (2)
of section 11A, shall also be liable to pay a penalty equal to the duty so
determined: 2[Provided that where such duty as determined under sub-section
(2) of section 11A, and the interest payable thereon under section 11AB, is
paid within thirty days from the date of communication of the order of the
Central Excise Officer determining such duty, the amount of penalty liable to
be paid by such person under this section be twenty-five per cent. of the duty
so determined: Provided further that the benefit of reduced penalty under the
first proviso shall be available if the amount of penalty so determined has
also been paid within the period of thirty days referred to in that proviso:
Provided also that where the duty determined to be payable is reduced or
increased by the Commissioner (Appeals), the Appellate Tribunal or, as the
case may be, the Court, then, for the purposes of this section, the duty, as
reduced or increased, as the case may be, shall be taken into account:
Provided also that in case where the duty determined to be payable is
increased by the Commissioner (Appeals), the Appellate Tribunal or, as the
case may be, the Court, then, the benefit of reduced penalty under the first
proviso shall be available, if the amount of duty so increased, the interest
payable thereon and twenty-five per cent. of the consequential increase of
penalty have also been paid within thirty days of the communication of the
order by which such increase in the duty takes effect. Explanation.—For the
removal of doubts, it is hereby declared that—
(1) the provisions of this section shall also apply to cases in which the
order determining the duty under sub-section (2) of section 11A relates to
notices issued prior to the date on which the Finance Act, 2000 receives the
assent of the President;
(2) any amount paid to the credit of the Central Government prior to the date
of communication of the order referred to in the first proviso or the fourth
proviso shall be adjusted against the total amount due from such person.]
89 [11B. Claim for refund of duty.—
(1) Any person claiming refund of any duty of excise may make an application
for refund of such duty to the 90 [Assistant Commissioner of Central Excise or
Deputy Commissioner of Central Excise] before the expiry of 3[one year] 4[from
the relevant date] 93 [ 94 [in such form and manner] as may be prescribed and
the application shall be accompanied by such documentary or other evidence
(including the documents referred to in section 12A as the applicant may
furnish to establish that the amount of duty of excise in rela­tion to which
such refund is claimed was collected from or paid by him and the incidence of
such duty had not been passed on by him to any other person: Provided that
where an application for refund has been made before the commencement of the
Central Excises and Customs Laws (Amendment) Act, 1991 (40 of 1991), such
application shall be deemed to have been made under this sub-section as
amended by the Act and the same shall be dealt with in accordance with the
provisions of sub-section (2) as substituted by that Act:] 95 [Provided
further that] the limitation of 8[one year] shall not apply where any duty has
been paid under protest. 97 [***]
98 [(2) If, on receipt of any such application, the 99 [Assistant Commissioner
of Central Excise or Deputy Commissioner of Central Excise] is satisfied that
the whole or any part of the duty of excise paid by the applicant is
refundable, he may make an order accordingly and the amount so determined
shall be credited to the Fund: Provided that the amount of duty of excise as
determined by the 99 [Assistant Commissioner of Central Excise or Deputy
Commissioner of Central Excise] under the foregoing provisions of this sub-
section shall, instead of being credited to the Fund, be paid to the
applicant, if such amount is relata­ble to—
(a) rebate of duty of excise on excisable goods exported out of India or on
excisable materials used in the manufacture of goods which are exported out of
India; tc" (a) rebate of duty of excise on excisable goods exported out of
India or on excisable materials used in the manufacture of goods which are
exported out of India;"
(b) unspent advance deposits lying in balance in the applicant’s current
account maintained with the 100 [Commissioner of Central Excise]; tc" (b)
unspent advance deposits lying in balance in the applicant’s current account
maintained with the 6[Commissioner of Central Excise];"
(c) refund of credit of duty paid on excisable goods used as inputs in
accordance with the rules made, or any notification issued, under this Act;
tc" (c) refund of credit of duty paid on excisable goods used as inputs in
accordance with the rules made, or any notification issued, under this Act;"
(d) the duty of excise paid by the manufacturer, if he had not passed on the
incidence of such duty to any other person; tc" (d) the duty of excise paid by
the manufacturer, if he had not passed on the incidence of such duty to any
other person;"
(e) the duty of excise borne by the buyer, if he had not passed on the
incidence of such duty to any other person; tc" (e) the duty of excise borne
by the buyer, if he had not passed on the incidence of such duty to any other
person;"
(f) the duty of excise borne by any other such class of applicants as the
Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, specify: tc"
(f) the duty of excise borne by any other such class of applicants as the
Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, specify\:"
Provided further that no notification under clause (f) of the first proviso
shall be issued unless in the opinion of the Cen­tral Government, the
incidence of duty has not been passed on by the persons concerned to any other
person.
(3) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in any judgment,
decree, order or direction of the Appellate Tribunal of any Court in any other
provision of this Act or the rules made thereunder or any other law for the
time being in force, no refund shall be made except as provided in sub-section
(2).
(4) Every notification under clause (f) of the first proviso to sub-section
(2) shall be laid before each House of Parliament, if it is sitting, as soon
as may be after the issue of the notifica­tion, and, if it is not sitting,
within seven days of its re-assembly, and the Central Government shall seek
the approval of Parliament to the notification by a resolution moved within a
period of fifteen days beginning with the day on which the noti­fication is so
laid before the House of the People and if Parlia­ment makes any modification
in the notification or directs that the notification should cease to have
effect, the notification shall thereafter have effect only in such modified
form or be of no effect, as the case may be, but without prejudice to the
validity of anything previously done thereunder.
(5) For the removal of doubts, it is hereby declared that any notification
issued under clause (f) of the first proviso to sub-section (2), including any
such notification approved or modified under sub-section (4), may be rescinded
by the Central Government at any time by notification in the Official
Gazette.] 101 [Explanation.—For the purposes of this section,—
(A) “refund” includes rebate of duty of excise on excisable goods exported out
of India or on excisable materials used in the manufacture of goods which are
exported out of India; tc" (A) “refund” includes rebate of duty of excise on
excisable goods exported out of India or on excisable materials used in the
manufacture of goods which are exported out of India;"
(B) “relevant date” means,— tc" (B) “relevant date” means,—"
(a) in the case of goods exported out of India where a refund of excise duty
paid is available in respect of the goods themselves or, as the case may be,
the excisable materials used in the manufacture of such goods,— tc" (a) in the
case of goods exported out of India where a refund of excise duty paid is
available in respect of the goods themselves or, as the case may be, the
excisable materials used in the manufacture of such goods,—"
(i) if the goods are exported by sea or air, the date on which the ship or the
aircraft in which such goods are loaded, leaves India, or tc" (i) if the goods
are exported by sea or air, the date on which the ship or the aircraft in
which such goods are loaded, leaves India, or"
(ii) if the goods are exported by land, the date on which such goods pass the
frontier, or tc" (ii) if the goods are exported by land, the date on which
such goods pass the frontier, or"
(iii) if the goods are exported by post, the date of despatch of goods by the
Post Office concerned to a place outside India; tc" (iii) if the goods are
exported by post, the date of despatch of goods by the Post Office concerned
to a place outside India;"
(b) in the case of goods returned for being remade, refined, reconditioned, or
subjected to any other similar process, in any factory, the date of entry into
the factory for the purposes aforesaid; tc" (b) in the case of goods returned
for being remade, refined, reconditioned, or subjected to any other similar
process, in any factory, the date of entry into the factory for the purposes
aforesaid;"
(c) in the case of goods to which banderols are required to be affixed if
removed for home consumption but not so required when exported outside India,
if returned to a factory after having been removed from such factory for
export out of India, the date of entry into the factory; tc" (c) in the case
of goods to which banderols are required to be affixed if removed for home
consumption but not so required when exported outside India, if returned to a
factory after having been removed from such factory for export out of India,
the date of entry into the factory;"
(d) in a case where a manufacturer is required to pay a sum, for a certain
period, on the basis of the rate fixed by the Central Government by
notification in the Official Gazette in full dis­charge of his liability for
the duty leviable on his production of certain goods, if after the
manufacturer has made the payment on tc" (d) in a case where a manufacturer is
required to pay a sum, for a certain period, on the basis of the rate fixed by
the Central Government by notification in the Official Gazette in full
dis­charge of his liability for the duty leviable on his production of certain
goods, if after the manufacturer has made the payment on" the basis of such
rate for any period but before the expiry of that period such rate is reduced,
the date of such reduction; tc "the basis of such rate for any period but
before the expiry of that period such rate is reduced, the date of such
reduction;"
102 [(e) in the case of a person, other than the manufacturer, the date of
purchase of the goods by such person;]
103 [(ea) in the case of goods which are exempt from payment of duty by a
special order issued under sub-section (2) of section 5A, the date of issue of
such order;]
104 [(eb) in case where duty of excise is paid provisionally under this Act or
the rules made thereunder, the date of adjustment of duty after the final
assessment thereof;]
105 [(ec) in case where the duty becomes refundable as a consequence of
judgment, decree, order or direction of appellate authority, Appellate
Tribunal or any court, the date of such judgment, decree, order or direction;]
(f) in any other case, the date of payment of duty.] tc" (f) in any other
case, the date of payment of duty.]" Comment The claim for refund of excess
duty paid under protest falls under section 11B, but application should be
made after finalisation of assessment; Commissioner of Central Excise, Mumbai-
II v. Allied Photographics India Ltd., (2004) 4 SCC 34.
The Central Excise Act, 1944
1[11BB. Interest on delayed refunds.—If any duty ordered to be refunded under
sub-section (2) of section 11B to any applicant is not refunded within three
months from the date of receipt of application under sub-section
(1) of that section, there shall be paid to that applicant interest at such
rate, 2[not below five per cent. and not exceeding thirty per cent. per annum
as is for the time being fixed 3[by the Central Government, by notification in
the Official Gazette] on such duty from the date immedi­ately after the expiry
of three months from the date of receipt of such application till the date of
refund of such duty: Provided where any duty ordered to be refunded under sub-
section (2) of section 11B in respect of an application under sub-section (1)
of that section made before the date on which the Finance Bill, 1995 receives
the assent of the President, is not re­funded within three months from such
date, there shall be paid to the applicant interest under this section from
the date immedi­ately after three months from such date, till the date of
refund of such duty. Explanation.—Where any order of refund is made by the
Commis­sioner (Appeals). Appellate Tribunal 4[, National Tax Tribunal] or any
Court against an order of the Assistant Commissioner of Central Excise, under
sub-section (2) of section 11B, the order passed by the Commissioner
(Appeals), Appellate Tribunal or, as the case may be, by the Court shall be
deemed to be an order passed under the said sub-section (2) for the purposes
of this section.]
The Central Excise Act, 1944
1[11C. Power not to recover duty of excise not levied or short-levied as a
result of general practice.—2[
(1) ] Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, if the Central
Government is satisfied—
(a) that a practice was, or is, generally prevalent regarding levy of duty of
excise (including non-levy thereof) on any ex­cisable goods; and
(b) that such goods were, or are, liable—
(i) to duty of excise, in cases where according to the said practice the duty
was not, or is not being, levied, or
(ii) to a higher amount of duty of excise than what was, or is being, levied,
according to the said practice, then, the Central Government may, by
notification in the Official Gazette, direct that the whole of the duty of
excise payable on such goods, or, as the case may be, the duty of excise in
excess of that payable on such goods, but for the said practice, shall not be
required to be paid in respect of the goods on which the duty of excise was
not, or is not being, levied, or was, or is being, short-levied, in accordance
with the said practice.] 3[(2) Where any notification under sub-section (1) in
respect of any goods has been issued, the whole of the duty of excise paid on
such goods or, as the case may be, the duty of excise paid in excess of that
payable on such goods, which would not have been paid if the said notification
had been in force, shall be dealt with in accordance with the provisions of
sub-section (2) of section 11B: Provided that the person claiming the refund
of such duty or, as the case may be, excess duty, makes an application in this
behalf to the 4[Assistant Commissioner of Central Excise], in the form
referred to in sub-section (1) of section 11B, before the expiry of six months
from the date of issue of the said notification.]
The Central Excise Act, 1944
1[11D. Duties of excise collected from the buyer to be deposited with the
Central Government.—
(1) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in any order or
direction of the Appellate Tribunal or any Court or in any other provision of
this Act or the rules made thereunder, 2[every person who is liable to pay
duty under this Act or the rules made thereunder, and has collected any amount
in excess of the duty assessed or determined and paid on any excisable goods
under this Act or the rules made thereunder from the buyer of such goods] in
any manner as representing duty of excise, shall forthwith pay the amount so
collected to the credit of the Central Government. 3[(2) Where any amount is
required to be paid to the credit of the Central Government under sub-section
(1) and which has not been so paid, the Central Excise Officer may serve, on
the person liable to pay such amount, a notice requiring him to show cause why
the said amount, as specified in the notice, should not be paid by him to the
credit of the Central Government.
(3) The Central Excise officer shall, after considering the representation, if
any, made by the person on whom the notice is served under sub-section (2),
determine the amount due from such person (not being in excess of the amount
specified in the notice) and thereupon such person shall pay the amount so
determined.
(4) The amount paid to the credit of the Central Government under sub-section
(1) of sub-section (3) shall be adjusted against the duty of excise, payable
by the person on finalisation of assessment or any other proceeding for
determination of the duty of excise relating to the excisable goods referred
to in sub-section (1).
(5) Where any surplus is left after the adjustment under sub-section (4), the
amount of such surplus shall either be credited to the Fund or, as the case
may be, refunded to the person who has borne the incidence of such amount, in
accordance with the provisions of section 11B and such person may make an
application under that section in such cases within six months from the date
of the public notice to be issued by the Assistant Commissioner of Central
Excise for the refund of such surplus amount.]
The Central Excise Act, 1944
1[11DD. Interest on the amounts collected in excess of the duty.—
(1) Where an amount has been collected in excess of the duty assessed or
determined and paid on any excisable goods under this Act or the rules made
thereunder from the buyer of such goods, the person who is liable to pay such
amount as determined under sub-section (3) of section 11D, shall, in addition
to the amount, be liable to pay interest at such rate not below ten per cent.,
and not exceeding thirty-six per cent. per annum, as is for the time being
fixed by the Central Government, by notification in the Official Gazette, from
the first day of the month succeeding the month in which the amount ought to
have been paid under this Act, but for the provisions contained in sub-section
(3) of section 11D, till the date of payment of such amount: Provided that in
such cases where the amount becomes payable consequent to issue of an order,
instruction or direction by the Board under section 37B, and such amount
payable is voluntarily paid in full, without reserving any right to appeal
against such payment at any subsequent stage, within forty-five days from the
date of issue of such order, instruction or direction, as the case may be, no
interest shall be payable and in other cases the interest shall be payable on
the whole amount, including the amount already paid.
(2) The provision of sub-section (1) shall not apply to cases where the amount
had become payable or ought to have been paid before the day on which the
Finance Bill, 2003 receives the assent of the President. Explanation 1.—Where
the amount determined under sub-section (3) of section 11D is reduced by the
Commissioner (Appeals), the Appellate Tribunal or, as the case may be, the
Court, the interest payable thereon under sub-section (1) shall be on such
reduced amount. Explanation 2.—Where the amount determined under sub-section
(3) of section 11D is increased by the Commissioner (Appeals), the Appellate
Tribunal or, as the case may be, the Court, the interest payable thereon under
sub-section (1) shall be on such increased amount].
The Central Excise Act, 1944
1[11DDA. Provisional attachment to protect revenue in certain cases.—
(1) Where, during the pendency of any proceedings under section 11A or section
11D, the Central Excise Officer is of the opinion that for the purpose of
protecting the interests of revenue, it is necessary so to do, he may, with
the previous approval of the Commissioner of Central Excise, by order in
writing, attach provisionally any property belonging to the person on whom
notice is served under sub-section (1) of section 11A or sub-section (2) of
section 11D, as the case may be, in accordance with the rules made in this
behalf under section 142 of the Customs Act, 1962 (52 of 1962).
(2) Every such provisional attachment shall cease to have effect after the
expiry of a period of six months from the date of the order made under sub-
section (1): Provided that the Chief Commissioner of Central Excise may, for
reasons to be re­corded in writing, extend the aforesaid period by such
further period or periods as he thinks fit, so, however, that the total period
of extension shall not in any case exceed two years: Provided further that
where an application for settlement of case under section 32E is made to the
Settlement Commission, the period commencing from the date on which such
application is made and ending with the date on which an order under
sub­-section (1) of section 32F is made shall be excluded from the period
specified in the preceding proviso.]
The Central Excise Act, 1944
12. Application of the provisions of Act 8 of 1878 to Central excise duties.—The Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, declare that any of the provisions of the 1[Customs Act, 1962 (52 of 1962)] relating to the levy of and exemption from customs duties, drawback of duty, warehousing, offences and penalties, confiscation, and procedure relating to offences and appeals shall, with such modifications and alterations as it may consider necessary or desirable to adapt them to the circum­stances, be applicable in regard to like matters in respect of the duties imposed by section 3.
The Central Excise Act, 1944
*12A. Price of goods to indicate the amount of duty paid thereon.—Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act or any other law for the time being in force, every person who is liable to pay duty of excise on any goods shall, at the time of clear­ance of the goods, prominently indicate in all the documents relating to assessment, sales invoice, and other like documents, the amount of such duty which will form part of the price at which such goods are to be sold.
The Central Excise Act, 1944
*12B. Presumption that incidence of duty has been passed on to the buyer.—Every person who has paid the duty of excise on any goods under this Act shall, unless the contrary is proved by him, be deemed to have passed on the full incidence of such duty to the buyer of such goods.
The Central Excise Act, 1944
*12C. Consumer Welfare Fund.—
(1) There shall be established by the Central Government a fund, to be called
the Consumer Welfare Fund.
(2) There shall be credited to the Fund, in such manner as may be prescribed,—
(a) the amount of duty of excise referred to in sub-section (2) of section 11B
or sub-section (2) of section 11C or sub-section (2) of section 11D;
(b) the amount of duty of customs referred to in sub-section (2) of section 27
or sub-section (2) of section 28A, or sub-section (2) of section 28B of the
Customs Act, 1962 (52 of 1962);
(c) any income from investment of the amount credited to the Fund and any
other monies received by the Central Government for the purposes of this Fund.
1[(d) the surplus amount referred to in sub-section (6) of section 73A of the
Finance Act, 1994.]
The Central Excise Act, 1944
*12D. Utilization of the Fund.—
(1) Any money credited to the Fund shall be utilised by the Central Government
for the welfare of the consumers in accordance with such rules as that
Government may make in this behalf.
(2) The Central Government shall maintain or, if it thinks fit, specify the
authority which shall maintain, proper and separate account and other relevant
records in relation to the Fund in such form as may be prescribed in
consultation with the Comptrol­ler and Auditor-General of India.]
The Central Excise Act, 1944
1[2[12E. ] Powers of Central Excise Officers.—
(1) A Central Excise Officer may exercise the powers and discharge the duties
conferred or imposed under this Act on any other Central Excise Officer who is
subordinate to him.
(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1), the 2[Commissioner
of Central Excise (Appeals)] shall not exercise the powers and discharge the
duties conferred or imposed on a Central Excise Officer other than those
specified in section 14 or Chapter VIA.]
The Central Excise Act, 1944
1[13. Power to arrest.—Any Central Excise Officer not below the rank of
Inspector of Central Excise may, with the prior approval of the Commissioner
of Central Excise, arrest any person whom he has reason to believe to be
liable to punishment under this Act or the rules made thereunder.]
The Central Excise Act, 1944
14. Power to summon persons to give evidence and produce docu­ments in inquiries under this Act.—
(1) Any Central Excise Offi­cer duly empowered by the Central Government in
this behalf shall have power to summon any person whose attendance he
considers necessary either to give evidence or to produce a document or any
other thing in any inquiry which such officer is making for any of the
purposes of this Act. A summons to produce documents or other things may be
for the production of certain specified documents or things or for the
production of all documents or things of a certain description in the
possession or under the control of the person summoned.
(2) All persons so summoned shall be bound to attend, either in person or by
an authorised agent, as such officer may direct; and all persons so summoned
shall be bound to state the truth upon any subject respecting which they are
examined or make statements and to produce such documents and other things as
may be re­quired: Provided that the exemptions under sections 132 and 133 of
the Code of Civil Procedure (5 of 1908) shall be applicable to requi­sitions
for attendance under this section.
(3) Every such inquiry as aforesaid shall be deemed to be a “judicial
proceeding” within the meaning of section 193 and section 228 of the Indian
Penal Code (45 of 1860).
125 [ 14A Special audit in certain cases. —
(1) If at any stage of en­quiry, investigation or any other proceedings before
him, any Central Excise Officer not below the rank of an Assistant
Commis­sioner of Central Excise, having regard to the nature and com­plexity
of the case and the interest of revenue, is of the opin­ion that the value has
not been correctly declared or determined by a manufacturer or any person, he
may, with the previous ap­proval of the Chief Commissioner of Central Excise,
direct such manufacturer or such person to get the accounts of his factory,
office, depots, distributors or any other place, as may be speci­fied by the
said Central Excise Officer, audited by a 126 [cost accountant or chartered
accountant] nominated by the Chief Commissioner of Central Excise in this
behalf.
(2) The 2 [cost accountant or chartered accountant], so nominated shall,
within the period specified by the Central Excise Officer, submit a report of
such audit duly signed and certified by him to the said Central Excise Officer
mentioning therein such other particulars as may be specified: Provided that
the Central Excise Officer may, on an application made to him in this behalf
by the manufacturer or the person and for any material and sufficient reason,
extend the said period by such further period or periods as he thinks fit; so,
however, that the aggregate of the period originally fixed and the period or
periods so extended shall not, in any case, exceed one hundred and eighty days
from the date on which the direction under sub-section (1) is received by the
manufacturer or the person.
(3) The provisions of sub-section (1) shall have effect notwith­standing that
the accounts of the manufacturer or person aforesaid have been audited under
any other law for the time being in force or otherwise. 127 [***]
(5) The manufacturer or the person shall be given an opportunity of being
heard in respect of any material gathered on the basis of audit under sub-
section (1) and proposed to be utilised in any proceedings under this Act or
rules made thereunder. 128 [ Explanation 1 ].—For the purpose of this
section,“cost accountant” shall have the meaning assigned to it in clause (b)
of sub-sec­tion (1) of section 2 of the Cost and Works Accountants Act, 1959
(23 of 1959).] [ Explanation 2. —For the purposes of this section, “chartered
accountant” shall have the meaning assigned to it in clause (b) of sub-section
(1) of section 2 of the Chartered Accountants Act, 1949 (38 of 1949).] 6. Ins.
by Act 33 of 2009, sec. 105(ii) (w.e.f. 19-8-2009).
130 [ 14AA Special audit in cases where credit of duty availed or utilised is
not within the normal limits, etc. —
(1) If the Commissioner of Central Excise has reason to believe that the
credit of duty availed of or utilised under the rules made under this Act by a
manufacturer of any excisable goods—
(a) is not within the normal limits having regard to the nature of the
excisable goods produced or manufactured, the type of inputs used and other
relevant factors, as he may deem appropriate;
(b) has been availed of or utilised by reason of fraud, collusion or any
wilful mis-statement or suppression of facts, he may direct such manufacturer
to get the accounts of his factory, office, depot, distributor or any other
place, as may be specified by him, audited by a 131 [cost accountant or
chartered accountant] nominated by him.
(2) The 131 [cost accountant or chartered accountant] so nominated shall,
within the period specified by the Commissioner of Central Excise, submit a
report of such audit duly signed and certified by him to the said Commissioner
mentioning therein such other particulars as may be specified.
(3) The provisions of sub-section (1) shall have effect notwithstanding that
the accounts of the said manufacturer aforesaid have been audited under any
other law for the time being in force or otherwise. 132 [***]
(5) The manufacturer shall be given an opportunity of being heard in respect
of any material gathered on the basis of the audit under sub-section (1) and
proposed to be utilised in any proceeding under this Act or rules made
thereunder. 133 [ Explanation 1 ].—For the purpose of this section, “cost
accountant” shall have the meaning assigned to it in clause (b) of sub-section
(1) of section 2 of the Cost and Works Accountants Act, 1959 (23 of 1959).]
134 [ Explanation 2. —For the purposes of this section, “chartered accountant”
shall have the meaning assigned to it in clause (b) of sub-section (1) of
section 2 of the Chartered Accountants Act, 1949 (38 of 1949).]
The Central Excise Act, 1944
15. Officers required to assist Central Excise Officers.—All officers of Police and Customs and all officers of Government engaged in the collection of land revenue, and all village offi­cers are hereby empowered and required to assist the Central Excise Officers in the execution of this Act.
The Central Excise Act, 1944
16. Owners or occupiers of land to report manufacture of contra­band excisable goods.—[Rep. by the Finance Act, 2002 (20 of 2002), sec. 137 (w.e.f. 11-5-2002).]
The Central Excise Act, 1944
17. Punishment for connivance at offences.—[Rep. by the Finance Act, 2002 (20 of 2002), sec. 137 (w.e.f. 11-5-2002).]
The Central Excise Act, 1944
18. Searches and arrests how to be made.—All searches made under this Act or any rules made thereunder and all arrests made under this Act shall be carried out in accordance with the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898 (5 of 1898)1, relating respectively to searches and arrests made under that Code.
The Central Excise Act, 1944
19. Disposal of persons arrested.—Every person arrested under this Act shall be forwarded without delay to the nearest Central Excise Officer empowered to send persons so arrested to a Magis­trate,or, if there is no such Central Excise Officer within a reasonable distance, to the officer-in-charge of the nearest police station.
The Central Excise Act, 1944
20. Procedure to be followed by officer-in-charge of police station.—The officer-in-charge of a police station to whom any person is forwarded under section 19 shall either admit him to bail to appear before the Magistrate having jurisdiction, or in default of bail forward him in custody to such Magistrate.
The Central Excise Act, 1944
21. Inquiry how to be made by Central Excise Officers against arrested persons forwarded to them under section 19.—
(1) When any person is forwarded under section 19 to a Central Excise Officer
empowered to send persons so arrested to a Magistrate, the Central Excise
Officer shall proceed to inquire into the charge against him.
(2) For this purpose the Central Excise Officer may exercise the same powers
and shall be subject to the same provisions as the officer-in-charge of a
police-station may exercise and is subject to under the Code of Criminal
Procedure, 1898 (5 of 1898)1, when investigating a cognizable case: Provided
that—
(a) if the Central Excise Officer is of opinion that there is sufficient
evidence or reasonable ground of suspicion against the accused person, he
shall either admit him to bail to appear before a Magistrate having
jurisdiction in the case, or forward him in custody to such Magistrate;
(b) if it appears to the Central Excise Officer that there is not sufficient
evidence or reasonable ground of suspicion against the accused person, he
shall release the accused person on his exe­cuting a bond, with or without
sureties as the Central Excise Officer may direct, to appear, if and when so
required before the Magistrate having jurisdiction, and shall make a full
report of all the particulars of the case to his official superior.
The Central Excise Act, 1944
22. Vexatious search, seizure, etc., by Central Excise Officer.—Any Central Excise or other officer exercising powers under this Act or under the rules made thereunder who—
(a) without reasonable ground of suspicion searches or causes to be searched
any house, boat or place;
(b) vexatiously and unnecessarily detains, searches or arrests any person;
(c) vexatiously and unnecessarily seizes the movable property of any person,
on pretence of seizing or searching for any article liable to confiscation
under this Act;
(d) commits, as such officer, any other act to the injury of any person,
without having reason to believe that such act is re­quired for the execution
of his duty, shall, for every such offence, be punishable with fine which may
extend to two thousand rupees. Any person wilfully and maliciously giving
false information and so causing an arrest or a search to be made under this
Act shall be punishable with fine which may extend to two thousand rupees or
with imprisonment for a term which may extend to two years or with both.
The Central Excise Act, 1944
23. Failure of Central Excise Officer in duty.—Any Central Excise Officer who ceases or refuses to perform or with­draws himself from the duties of his office, unless he has ob­tained the express written permission of the 1[Commissioner of Central Excise], or has given to his superior officer two months’ notice in writing of his intention or has other lawful excuse, shall on conviction before a Magistrate be punishable with im­prisonment for a term which may extend to three months or with fine which may extend to three months’ pay, or with both.
139 [ 23A Definitions. —In this Chapter, unless the context otherwise
requires,—
(a) “activity” means production or manufacture of goods;
(b) “advance ruling” means the determination, by the authority of a question
of law or fact specified in the application regarding the liability to pay
duty in relation to an activity proposed to be undertaken, by the applicant;
140 [(c) “applicant” means—
(i) (a) a non-resident setting up a joint venture in India in collaboration
with a non-resident or a resident; or
(b) a resident setting up a joint venture in India in collaboration with a
non-resident; or
(c) a wholly owned subsidiary Indian company, of which the holding company is
a foreign company, who or which, as the case may be, proposes to undertake any
business activity in india:
(ii) a joint venture in India; or
(iii) a resident falling within any such class or category of persons, as the
Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, specify in
this behalf, and which or who, as the case may be, makes application for
advance ruling under sub-section (1) of section 23C;] 141 [ Explanation. —For
the purposes of this clause, “joint venture in India” means a contractual
arrangement whereby two or more persons undertake an economic activity which
is subject to joint control and one or more of the participants or partners or
equity holders is a non-resident having substantial interest in such
arrangement;]
(d) “application” means an application made to the Authority under sub-section
(1) of section 23C;
142 [(e) “Authority” means the Authority for Advance Rulings, constituted
under sub-section (1), or authorised by the Central Government under sub-
section (2A), of section 28F of the Customs Act, 1962 (52 of 1962);]
143 [(f) “non-resident”, "Indian company" and "foreign company" shall have the
meanings respectively assigned to them in clauses (30), (26) and (23A) of
section 2 of the Income-tax Act, 1961 (43 of 1961).]
The Central Excise Act, 1944
*23B. Vacancies etc., not to invalidate proceedings.—No proceeding before, or pronouncement of advance ruling by, the Authority under this Chapter shall be questioned or shall be invalid on the ground merely of the existence of any vacancy or defect in the constitution of the Authority.
The Central Excise Act, 1944
*23C. Application for advance ruling.—
(1) An applicant desirous of obtaining an advance ruling under this Chapter
may make an application in such form and in such manner as may be prescribed,
setting the question on which the advance ruling is sought.
(2) The question on which the advance ruling is sought shall be in respect
of,—
(a) classification of any goods under the Central Excise Tariff Act, 1985 (5
of 1986).
(b) applicability of a notification issued under sub-section (1) of section 5A
having a bearing on the rate of duty;
(c) the principles to be adopted for the purposes of determination of value of
the goods under the provisions of this Act. 1[(d) notifications issued, in
respect of duties of excise under this Act, the Central Excise Tariff Act,
1985 and any duty chargeable under any other law for the time being in force
in the same manner as duty of excise leviable under this Act;
(e) admissibility of credit of excise duty paid or deemed to have been paid on
the goods used in or in relation to the manufacture of the excisable goods.]
2[(f) determination of the liability to pay duties of excise on any goods
under this Act.]
(3) The application shall be made in quadruplicate and be accompanied by a fee
of two thousand five hundred rupees.
(4) An applicant may withdraw an application within thirty days from the date
of the application.
The Central Excise Act, 1944
*23D. Procedure on receipt of application.—
(1) On receipt of an application, the Authority shall cause a copy thereof to
be forwarded to the Commissioner of Central Excise and, if necessary, call
upon him to furnish the relevant records: Provided that where any records have
been called for by the Authority in any case, such records shall, as soon as
possible, be returned to the Commissioner of Central Excise.
(2) The Authority may, after examining the application and the records called
for, by order, either allow or reject the application: Provided that the
Authority shall not allow the application 1[***] where the question raised in
the application is,—
(a) already pending in the applicant’s case before any Central Excise Officer,
the Appellate Tribunal or any Court;
(b) the same as in a matter already decided by the Appellate Tribunal or any
Court: Provided further that no application shall be rejected under this sub-
section unless an oppotunity has been given to the applicant of being heard:
Provided also that where the application is rejected, reasons for such
rejection shall be given in the order.
(3) A copy of every order made under sub-section (2) shall be sent to the
applicant and to the Commissioner of Central Excise.
(4) Where an application is allowed under sub-section (2), the Authority
shall, after examining such further material as may be placed before it by the
applicant or obtained by the Authority, pronounce its advance ruling on the
question specified in the application.
(5) On a request received from the applicant, the Authority shall, before
pronouncing its advance ruling, provide an opportunity to the applicant of
being heard, either in person or through a duly authorised representative.
Explanation.—For the purposes of this sub-section, “authorised representative”
shall have the meaning assigned to it in sub-section (2) of section 35Q.
(6) The Authority shall pronounce its advance ruling in writing within ninety
days of the receipt of application.
(7) A copy of the advance ruling pronounced by the Authority, duly signed by
the Members and certified in the prescribed manner shall be sent to the
applicant and to the Commissioner of Central Excise, as soon as may be, after
such pronouncement.
The Central Excise Act, 1944
*23E. Applicability of advance ruling.—
(1) The advance ruling pronounced by the Authority under section 23D shall be
binding only—
(a) on the applicant who had sought it;
(b) in respect of any matter referred to in sub-section (2) of section 23C;
(c) on the Commissioner of Central Excise, and the Central Excise authorities
subordinate to him, in respect of the applicant.
(2) The advance ruling referred to in sub-section (1) shall be binding as
aforesaid unless there is a change in law or facts on the basis of which the
advance ruling has been pronounced.
The Central Excise Act, 1944
*23F. Advance ruling to be void in certain circumstances.—
(1) Where the Authority finds, on a representation made to it by the
Commissioner of Central Excise or otherwise, that an advance ruling pronounced
by it under sub-section (6) of section 28-l has been obtained by the applicant
by fraud or misrepresentation of facts, it may, by order, declare such ruling
to be void ab initio and thereupon all the provisions of this Act shall apply
(after excluding the period beginning with the date of such advance ruling and
ending with the date of order under this sub-section) to the applicant as if
such advance ruling had never been made.
(2) A copy of the order made under sub-section (1) shall be sent to the
applicant and the Commissioner of Central Excise.
The Central Excise Act, 1944
*23G. Powers of Authority.—
(1) The Authority shall, for the purpose of exercising its powers regarding
discovery and inspection, enforcing the attendance of any person and examining
him on oath, issuing commissions and compelling production of books of account
and other records, have all the powers of a civil Court under the Code of
Civil Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908).
(2) The Authority shall be deemed to be a civil Court for the purpose of
section 195, but not for the purposes of Chapter XXVI of the Code of Criminal
Procedure 1973 (2 of 1974), and every proceeding before the Authority shall be
deemed to be a judicial proceeding within the meaning of sections 193 and 228,
and for the purpose of section 196, of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860).
The Central Excise Act, 1944
*23H. Procedure of Authority.—The Authority shall, subject to the provisions of this Chapter, have power to regulate its own procedure in all matters arising out of the exercise of its powers under this Act.
The Central Excise Act, 1944
24. Penalties for carrying excisable goods in certain vessels.—[Rep. by the Finance Act, 2002 (20 of 2002), sec. 139 (w.e.f. 11-5-2002.]
The Central Excise Act, 1944
25. Exceptions.—[Rep. by the Finance Act, 2002 (20 of 2002), sec. 139 (w.e.f. 11-5-2002.]
The Central Excise Act, 1944
26. Power of stoppage, search and arrest.—[Rep. by the Finance Act, 2002 (20 of 2002), sec. 139 (w.e.f. 11-5-2002.]
The Central Excise Act, 1944
27. Penalties for resisting officer.—[Rep. by the Finance Act, 2002 (20 of 2002), sec. 139 (w.e.f. 11-5-2002.]
The Central Excise Act, 1944
28. Confiscation of vessel and cargo.—[Rep. by the Finance Act, 2002 (20 of 2002), sec. 139 (w.e.f. 11-5-2002.]
The Central Excise Act, 1944
29. Jurisdiction.—[Rep. by the Finance Act, 2002 (20 of 2002), sec. 139 (w.e.f.11-5-2002.]
The Central Excise Act, 1944
30. Power to exempt from operation of this Chapter.—[Rep. by the Finance Act, 2002 (20 of 2002), sec. 139 (w.e.f. 11-5-2002.]
[31. Definitions.—In this Chapter, unless the context otherwise requires,—
(a) “assessee” means any person who is liable for payment of excise duty
assessed under this Act or any other Act and includes any producer or
manufacturer of excisable goods or a registered person under the rules made
under this Act, of a private warehouse in which excisable goods are stored;
tc" (a) “assessee” means any person who is liable for payment of excise duty
assessed under this Act or any other Act and includes any producer or
manufacturer of excisable goods or a registered person under the rules made
under this Act, of a private warehouse in which excisable goods are stored;"
(b) “Bench” means a Bench of the Settlement Commission; tc" (b) “Bench” means
a Bench of the Settlement Commission;"
[(c) “case” means any proceeding under this Act or any other Act for the levy,
assessment and collection of excise duty, pending before an adjudicating
authority on the date on which an application under sub-section (1) of section
32E is made: Provided that when any proceeding is referred back in any appeal
or revision, as the case may be, by any court, Appellate Tribunal or any other
authority, to the adjudicating authority for a fresh adjudication or decision,
as the case may be, then such proceeding shall not be deemed to be a
proceeding pending within the meaning of this clause;] tc" Provided that when
any proceeding is referred back in any appeal or revision, as the case may be,
by any court, Appellate Tribunal or any other authority, to the adjudicating
authority for a fresh adjudication or decision, as the case may be, then such
proceeding shall not be deemed to be a proceeding pending within the meaning
of this clause;]"
(d) “Chairman” means the Chairman of the Settlement Commission; tc" (d)
“Chairman” means the Chairman of the Settlement Commission;"
(e) “Commissioner (Investigation)” means an officer of the customs or a
Central Excise Officer appointed as such Commissioner to conduct inquiry or
investigation for the purposes of this Chapter; tc" (e) “Commissioner
(Investigation)” means an officer of the customs or a Central Excise Officer
appointed as such Commissioner to conduct inquiry or investigation for the
purposes of this Chapter;"
(f) “Member” means a Member of the Settlement Commission and includes the
Chairman and the Vice-Chairman; tc" (f) “Member” means a Member of the
Settlement Commission and includes the Chairman and the Vice-Chairman;"
(g) “Settlement Commission” means the Customs and Central Excise Settlement
Commission constituted under section 32; and tc" (g) “Settlement Commission”
means the Customs and Central Excise Settlement Commission constituted under
section 32; and"
(h) “Vice-Chairman” means a Vice-Chairman of the Settlement Commission. tc"
(h) “Vice-Chairman” means a Vice-Chairman of the Settlement Commission." ]
-------- ----
(1) Chapter V (containing sections 31, 32, 32A to 32P) ins. by Act 21 of 1998,
sec. 110 (w.e.f.1-8-1998). Earlier Chapter V (containing sections 31 to 32)
was omitted by Act 33 of 1996, sec. 79 (w.e.f. 28-9-1996).
(2) Subs. by Act 22 of 2007, sec. 119, for clause (c) (w.e.f. 1-6-2007).
Clause (c), before substitution, stood as under: ‘(c) “case” means any
proceeding under this Act or any other Act for the levy, assessment and
collection of excise duty, or any proceeding by way of appeal or revision in
connection with such levy, assessment or collection, which may be pending
before a Central Excise Officer or Central Government on the date on which an
application under sub-section (1) of section 32E is made: Provided that where
any appeal or application for revision has been preferred after the expiry of
the period specified for the filing of such appeal or application for revision
under this Act and which has not been admitted, such appeal or revision shall
not be deemed to be a proceeding pending within the meaning of this clause;’.
The Central Excise Act, 1944
*32. Customs and Central Excise Settlement Commission.—
(1) The Central Government shall, by notification in the Official Gazette,
constitute a Commission to be called the Customs and Central Excise Settlement
Commission for the settlement of cases under this Chapter and Chapter XIVA of
the Customs Act, 1962 (52 of 1962).
(2) The Settlement Commission shall consist of a Chairman and as many Vice-
Chairmen and other Members as the Central Government thinks fit and shall
function within the Department of the Central Government dealing with customs
and central excise matters.
(3) The Chairman, Vice-Chairman and other Members of the Settlement Commission
shall be appointed by the Central Government from amongst persons of integrity
and outstanding ability, having special knowledge of, and experience in,
administration of customs and central excise laws: Provided that, where a
member of the Board is appointed as the Chairman, Vice Chairman or as a Member
of the Settlement Commission, he shall cease to be a member of the said Board.
147 [32-I. Powers and procedure of Settlement Commissions.—
(1) In addition to the powers conferred on the Settlement Commission under
this Chapter, it shall have all the powers which are vested in a Central
Excise Officer under this Act or the rules made thereunder.
(2) Where an application made under section 32E has been allowed to be
proceeded with under section 32F, the Settlement Commission shall, until an
order is passed under sub-section 148 [(5)] of section 32F, have, subject to
the provisions of sub-section 149 [(4)] of that section, exclusive
jurisdiction to exercise the powers and perform the functions of any Central
Excise Officer, under this Act in relation to the case.
(3) In the absence of any express direction by the Settlement Commission to
the contrary, nothing in this Chapter shall affect the operation of the
provisions of this Act in so far as they relate to any matters other than
those before the Settlement Commission.
(4) The Settlement Commission shall, subject to the provisions of this
Chapter, have power to regulate its own procedure and the procedure of Benches
thereof in all matters arising out of the exercise of its powers, or of the
discharge of its functions, including the places at which the Benches shall
hold their sittings.]
[32A. Jurisdiction and powers of Settlement Commission.—
(1) Subject to the other provisions of this Chapter, the jurisdiction, powers
and authority of the Settlement Commission may be exercised by Benches
thereof.
(2) Subject to the other provisions of this section, a Bench shall be presided
over by the Chairman or a Vice-Chairman and shall consist of two other
Members.
(3) The Bench for which the Chairman is the presiding officer shall be the
principal Bench and other Benches shall be known as additional Benches.
(4) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1) and sub-section (2),
the Chairman may authorise the Vice-Chairman or other Member appointed to one
Bench to discharge also the functions of the Vice-Chairman or, as the case may
be, other Member of another Bench.
(5) The principal Bench shall sit at Delhi and the Central Government shall,
by notification in the Official Gazette, establish additional Benches at such
places as it considers necessary. (6) Notwithsanding anything contained in the
foregoing provisions of this section, and subject to any rules that may be
made in this behalf, when one of the persons constituting a Bench (whether
such person be the presiding officer or other Member of the Bench) is unable
to discharge his functions owing to absence, illness or any other cause or in
the event of the occurrence of any vacancy either in the office of the
presiding officer or in the office of one or the other Members of the Bench,
the remaining Members may function as the Bench and if the presiding officer
of the Bench is not one of the remaining Members, the senior among the
remaining Members shall act as the presiding officer of the Bench: Provided
that if at any stage of the hearing of any such case or matter, it appears to
the presiding officer that the case or matter is of such a nature that it
ought to be heard of by a Bench consisting of three Members, the case or
matter may be referred by the presiding officer of such Bench to the Chairman
for transfer to such Bench as the Chairman may deem fit: 2[Provided further
that at any stage of the hearing of any such case or matter, referred to in
the first proviso, the Chairman may, if he thinks that the case or matter is
of such a nature that it ought to be heard by a Bench consisting of three
Members, constitute such Bench and if Vice-Chairman is not one of the Members,
the senior among the Members shall act as the presiding officer of such
Bench.]
(7) Notwithstanding anything contained in the foregoing provisions of this
section, the Chairman may, for the disposal of any particular case, constitute
a Special Bench consisting of more than three Members.
(8) Subject to the other provisions of this Chapter, the Special Bench shall
sit at a place to be fixed by the Chairman.] -------- ----
(1) Chapter V (containing sections 31, 32, 32A to 32P) ins. by Act 21 of 1998,
sec. 110 (w.e.f. 1-8-1998). Earlier Chapter V (containing sections 31 to 32)
was omitted by Act 33 of 1996, sec. 79 (w.e.f. 28-9-1996).
(2) Ins. by Act 22 of 2007, sec. 120 (w.e.f. 11-5-2007).
The Central Excise Act, 1944
*32B. Vice-Chairman to act as Chairman or to discharge his functions in certain circumstances.—
(1) In the event of the occurrence of any vacancy in the office of the
Chairman by reason of his death, resignation or otherwise, the Vice-Chairman
or, as the case may be, such one of the Vice-Chairmen as the Central
Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, authorise in this
behalf, shall act as the Chairman until the date on which a new Chairman,
appointed in accordance with the provisions of this Chapter to fill such
vacancy, enters upon his office.
(2) When the Chairman is unable to discharge his functions owing to absence,
illness or any other cause, the vice-Chairman or, as the case may be, such one
of the Vice-Chairmen as the Central Government may, by notification in the
Official Gazette, authorise in this behalf, shall discharge the functions of
the Chairman until the date on which the Chairman resumes his duties.
The Central Excise Act, 1944
*32C. Power of Chairman to transfer cases from one Bench to another.—On the application of the assessee or the Chief Commissioner or Commissioner of Central Excise and after giving notice to them, and after hearing such of them as he may desire to be heard, or on his own motion without such notice, the Chairman may transfer any case pending before one Bench, for disposal, to another Bench.
The Central Excise Act, 1944
*32D. Decision to be by majority.—If the Members of a Bench differ in opinion on any point, the point shall be decided according to the opinion of the majority, if there is a majority, but if the members are equally divided, they shall state the point or points on which they differ, and make a reference to the Chairman who shall either hear the point or points himself or refer the case for hearing on such point or points by one or more of the other Members of the Settlement Commission and such point or points shall be decided according to the opinion of the majority of the Members of the Settlement Commission who have heard the case, including those who first heard it.
151 [ 32E Application for settlement of cases. — 152 [
(1) An assessee may, in respect of a case relating to him, make an
application, before adjudication, to the Settlement Commission to have the
case settled, in such form and in such manner as may be prescribed and
containing a full and true disclosure of his duty liability which has not been
disclosed before the Central Excise Officer having jurisdiction, the manner in
which such liability has been derived, the additional amount of excise duty
accepted to be payable by him and such other particulars as may be prescribed
including the particulars of such excisable goods in respect of which he
admits short levy on account of misclassification, under-valuation,
inapplicability of exemption notification or CENVAT credit 153 [or otherwise]
and any such application shall be disposed of in the manner hereinafter
provided: Provided that no such application shall be made unless,—
(a) the applicant has filed returns showing production, clearance and central
excise duty paid in the prescribed manner;
(b) a show cause notice for recovery of duty issued by the Central Excise
Officer has been received by the applicant;
(c) the additional amount of duty accepted by the applicant in his application
exceeds three lakh rupees; and
(d) the applicant has paid the additional amount of excise duty accepted by
him along with interest due under section 11AB:
Provided further that no application shall be entertained by the Settlement
Commission under this sub-section in cases which are pending with the
Appellate Tribunal or any Court: Provided also that no application under this
sub-section shall be made for the interpretation of the classification of
excisable goods under the Central Excise Tariff Act, 1985 (5 of 1986).
(1A) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1), where an
application was made under sub-section (1), before the 1st day of June, 2007
but an order under sub-section (1) of section 32F has not been made before the
said date or payment of amount so ordered by the Settlement Commission under
sub-section (1) of section 32F has not been made, the applicant shall within a
period of thirty days from the 1st day of June, 2007, pay the accepted duty
liability failing which his application shall be liable to be rejected.]
(2) Where any excisable goods, books of account, other documents have been
seized under the provisions of this Act or rules made thereunder, the assessee
shall not be entitled to make an application under sub-section (1), before the
expiry of one hundred and eighty days from the date of the seizure.
(3) Every application made under sub-section (1) shall be accompanied by such
fees as may be prescribed.
(4) An application made under sub-section (1) shall not be allowed to be
withdrawn by the applicant.] This Act has been applied to—
(a) the applicant has filed returns showing production, clearance and central
excise duty paid in the prescribed manner;
(b) a show cause notice for recovery of duty issued by the Central Excise
Officer has been received by the applicant; and
(c) the additional amount of duty accepted by the applicant in this
application exceeds two lakh rupees:
(1) all the partially excluded areas in the State of Orissa by Orissa
Government Notification No. 1226-II-C-13/44-Com., dated 21st March, 1944;
(2) Darjeeling District with effect from 28th February, 1944, see Bengal
Government Notification No. 342-R, dated 22nd March, 1944;
(3) excluded areas in the State of Madras (with modifications), see Madras
Government Notification No. 37, Fort St. George Ga­zette, Pt. I, p. 281, dated
11th April, 1944;
(4) partially excluded areas in the State of Madras with effect from 28th
February, 1944, see Madras Government Notification No. 745-Public-Political,
dated 4th March, 1944. This Act has been extended to Goa, Daman and Diu by
Reg. 12 of 1962, sec. 3 and Sch.; to Dadra and Nagar Haveli by Reg. 6 of 1963,
sec. 2 and Sch. I and to the whole of the Union territory of Lak­shadweep by
Reg. 8 of 1965, sec. 3 and Sch.
155 [ 156 [ 32F Procedure on receipt of an application under section 32E. —
(1) On receipt of an application under sub-section (1) of section 32E, the
Settlement Commission shall, within seven days from the date of receipt of the
application, issue a notice to the applicant to explain in writing as to why
the application made by him should be allowed to be proceeded with, and after
taking into consideration the explanation provided by the applicant, the
Settlement Commission, shall, within a period of fourteen days from the date
of the notice, by an order, allow the application to be proceeded with, or
reject the application as the case may be, and the proceedings before the
Settlement Commission shall abate on the date of rejection: Provided that
where no notice has been issued or no order has been passed within the
aforesaid period by the Settlement Commission, the application shall be deemed
to have been allowed to be proceeded with.
(2) A copy of every order under sub-section (1), shall be sent to the
applicant and to the Commissioner of Central Excise having jurisdiction.
(3) Where an application is allowed or deemed to have been allowed to be
proceeded with under sub-section (1), the Settlement Commission shall, within
seven days from the date of order under sub-section (1), call for a report
along with the relevant records from the Commissioner of Central Excise having
jurisdiction and the Commissioner shall furnish the report within a period of
thirty days of the receipt of communication from the Settlement Commission:
Provided that where the Commissioner does not furnish the report within the
aforesaid period of thirty days, the Settlement Commission shall proceed
further in the matter without the report of the Commissioner.
(4) Where a report of the Commissioner called for under sub-section (3) has
been furnished within the period specified in that sub-section, the Settlement
Commission may, after examination of such report, if it is of the opinion that
any further enquiry or investigation in the matter is necessary direct, for
reasons to be recorded in writing, the Commissioner (Investigation) within
fifteen days of the receipt of the report, to make or cause to be made such
further enquiry or investigation and furnish a report within a period of
ninety days of the receipt of the communication from the Settlement
Commission, on the matters covered by the application and any other matter
relating to the case: Provided that where the Commissioner (Investigation)
does not furnish the report within the aforesaid period, the Settlement
Commission shall proceed to pass an order under sub-section (5) without such
report.
(5) After examination of the records and the report of the Commissioner of
Central Excise received under sub-section (3), and the report, if any, of the
Commissioner (Investigation) of the Settlement Commission under sub-section
(4), and after giving an opportunity to the applicant and to the Commissioner
of Central Excise having jurisdiction to be heard, either in person or through
a representative duly authorised in this behalf, and after examining such
further evidence as may be placed before it or obtained by it, the Settlement
Commission may, in accordance with the provisions of this Act, pass such order
as it thinks fit on the matters covered by the application and any other
matter relating to the case not covered by the application, but referred to in
the report of the Commissioner of Central Excise and Commissioner
(Investigation) under sub-section (3) or sub-section (4).
(6) An order under sub-section (5) shall not be passed in respect of an
application filed on or before the 31st day of May, 2007, later than the 29th
day of February, 2008 and in respect of an application made on or after the
1st day of June, 2007, after nine months from the last day of the month in
which the application was made, failing which the settlement proceedings shall
abate, and the adjudicating authority before whom the proceeding at the time
of making the application was pending, shall dispose of the case in accordance
with the provisions of this Act as if no application under section 32E had
been made: 157 [Provided that the period specified under this sub-section may,
for reasons to be recorded in writing, be extended by the Settlement
Commission for a further period not exceeding three months.]
(7) Subject to the provisions of section 32A, the materials brought on record
before the Settlement Commission shall be considered by the Members of the
concerned Bench before passing any order under sub-section (5) and, in
relation to the passing of such order, the provisions of section 32D shall
apply.
(8) The order passed under sub-section (5) shall provide for the terms of
settlement including any demand by way of duty, penalty or interest, the
manner in which any sums due under the settlement shall be paid and all other
matters to make the settlement effective and in case of rejection contain the
reasons therefor and it shall also provide that the settlement shall be void
if it is subsequently found by the Settlement Commission that it has been
obtained by fraud, or misrepresentation of facts: Provided that the amount of
settlement ordered by the Settlement Commission shall not be less than the
duty liability admitted by the applicant under section 32E.
(9) Where any duty, interest, fine and penalty payable in pursuance of an
order under sub-section (5), is not paid by the assessee within thirty days of
receipt of a copy of the order by him, the amount which remains unpaid, shall
be recovered along with interest due thereon, as the sums due to the Central
Government by the Central Excise Officer having jurisdiction over the assessee
in accordance with the provisions of section 11.
(10) Where a settlement becomes void as provided under sub-section (8), the
proceedings with respect to the matters covered by the settlement shall be
deemed to have been revived from the stage at which the application was
allowed to be proceeded with by the Settlement Commission and the Central
Excise Officer having jurisdiction may, notwithstanding anything contained in
any other provision of this Act, complete such proceedings at any time before
the expiry of two years from the date of the receipt of communication that the
settlement became void.]] This Act has been applied to— “32F. Procedure on
receipt of an application under section 32E. —(1) On receipt of an application
under sub-section (1) of section 32E, the Settlement Commission shall call for
a report from the Commissioner of Central Excise having jurisdiction and on
the basis of the materials contained in such report and having regard to the
nature and circumstances of the case or the complexity of the investigation
involved therein, the Settlement Commission may, by order, allow the
application to be proceeded with or reject the application: Provided that an
application shall not be rejected under this sub-section, unless an
opportunity has been given to the applicant of being heard: Provided further
that the Commissioner of Central Excise shall furnish such report within a
period of one month of the receipt of the communication from the Settlement
Commission, failing which it shall be presumed that the Commissioner of
Central Excise has no objection to such application; but he may raise
objections at the time of hearing fixed by the Settlement Commission for
admission of the application and the date of such hearing shall be
communicated by the Settlement Commission to the applicant and the
Commissioner of Central Excise within a period not exceeding two months from
the date of receipt of such application, unless the presiding officer of the
Bench extends the time, recording the reasons in writing.
(1) all the partially excluded areas in the State of Orissa by Orissa
Government Notification No. 1226-II-C-13/44-Com., dated 21st March, 1944;
(2) Darjeeling District with effect from 28th February, 1944, see Bengal
Government Notification No. 342-R, dated 22nd March, 1944;
(3) excluded areas in the State of Madras (with modifications), see Madras
Government Notification No. 37, Fort St. George Ga­zette, Pt. I, p. 281, dated
11th April, 1944;
(4) partially excluded areas in the State of Madras with effect from 28th
February, 1944, see Madras Government Notification No. 745-Public-Political,
dated 4th March, 1944. This Act has been extended to Goa, Daman and Diu by
Reg. 12 of 1962, sec. 3 and Sch.; to Dadra and Nagar Haveli by Reg. 6 of 1963,
sec. 2 and Sch. I and to the whole of the Union territory of Lak­shadweep by
Reg. 8 of 1965, sec. 3 and Sch.
(2) A copy of every order under sub-section (1) shall be sent to the applicant
and to the Commissioner of Central Excise having jurisdiction.
(3) Subject to the provisions of sub-section (4), the applicant shall within
thirty days of the receipt of a copy of the order under sub-section (1)
allowing the application to be proceeded with, pay the amount of additional
duty admitted by him as payable and shall furnish proof of such payment to the
Settlement Commission.
(4) If the Settlement Commission is satisfied, on an application made in this
behalf by the assessee that he is unable for good and sufficient reasons to
pay the amount referred to in sub-section (3), within the time specified in
that sub-section, it may extend the time for payment of the amount which
remains unpaid or allow payment thereof by instalments, if the assessee
furnishes adequate security for the payment thereof.
(5) Where the additional amount of duty referred to in sub-section (3) is not
paid by the assessee within the time specified or extended period, as the case
may be, the Settlement Commission may direct that the amount which remains
unpaid, together with simple interest at the rate of eighteen per cent. per
annum or at the rate notified by the Central Board of Excise and Customs from
time to time on the amount remaining unpaid, be recovered, as the sum due to
Central Government by the Central Excise Officer having jurisdiction over the
assessee in accordance with the provisions of section 11.
(6) Where an application is allowed to be proceeded with under sub-section
(1), the Settlement Commission may call for the relevant records from the
Commissioner of Central Excise having jurisdiction and after examination of
such records, if the Settlement Commission is of the opinion that any further
enquiry or investigation in the matter is necessary, it may direct the
Commissioner (Investigation) to make or cause to be made such further enquiry
or investigation and furnish a report on the matters covered by the
application and any other matter relating to the case.
(7) After examination of the records and the report of the Commissioner of
Central Excise received under sub-section (1), and the report, if any, of the
Commissioner (Investigation) of the Settlement Commission under sub-section
(6), and after giving an opportunity to the applicant and to the Commissioner
of Central Excise having jurisdiction to be heard, either in person or through
a representative duly authorised in this behalf, and after examining such
further evidence as may be placed before it or obtained by it, the Settlement
Commission may, in accordance with the provisions of this Act, pass such order
as it thinks fit on the matters covered by the application and any other
matter relating to the case not covered by the application, but referred to in
the report of the Commissioner of Central Excise and Commissioner
(Investigation) under sub-section (1) or sub-section (6).
(8) Subject to the provisions of section 32A, the materials brought on record
before the Settlement Commission shall be considered by the Members of the
Bench concerned before passing any order under sub-section (7) and, in
relation to the passing of such order, the provisions of section 32D shall
apply.
(9) Every order passed under sub-section (7) shall provide for the terms of
settlement including any demand by way of duty, penalty or interest, the
manner in which any sums due under the settlement shall be paid and all other
matters to make the settlement effective and shall also provide that the
settlement shall be void if it is subsequently found by the Settlement
Commission that it has been obtained by fraud, or misrepresentation of facts.
(10) Where any duty payable in pursuance of an order under sub-section (7) is
not paid by the assessee within thirty days of the receipt of a copy of the
order by him, then, whether or not the Settlement Commission has extended the
time for payment of such duty or has allowed payment thereof by instalments,
the assessee shall be liable to pay simple interest at the rate of eighteen
per cent. per annum or at such other rate as notified by the Central Board of
Excise and Customs on the amount remaining unpaid from the date of expiry of
the period of thirty days aforesaid.
(11) Where a settlement becomes void as provided under sub-section (9) the
proceedings with respect to the matters covered by the settlement shall be
deemed to have been revived from the stage at which the application was
allowed to be proceeded with by the Settlement Commission and the Central
Excise Officer having jurisdiction may, notwithstanding anything contained in
any other provision of this Act, complete such proceedings at any time before
the expiry of two years from the date of the receipt of communication that the
settlement became void.”
The Central Excise Act, 1944
*32G. Power of Settlement Commission to order provisional attachment to protect revenue.—
(1) Where, during the pendency of any proceeding before it, the Settlement
Commission is of the opinion that for the purpose of protecting the interests
of revenue it is necessary so to do, it may, by order, attach provisionally
any property belonging to the applicant in the manner as may be prescribed.
(2) Every provisional attachment made by the Settlement Commission under sub-
section (1) shall cease to have effect from the date, the sums due to the
Central Government for which such attachment is made are discharged by the
applicant and evidence to that effect is submitted to the Settlement
Commission.
158 [32H. Power of Settlement Commission to reopen completed proceedings.—If
Settlement Commission is of the opinion (the reasons for such opinion to be
recorded by it in writing) that, for the proper disposal of the case pending
before it, it is necessary or expedient to reopen any proceeding connected
with the case but which has been completed under this Act before application
for settlement under section 32E was made, it may, with the concurrence of the
applicant, reopen such proceeding and pass such order thereon as it thinks
fit, as if the case in relation to which the application for settlement had
been made by the applicant under that section covered such proceeding also:
Provided that no proceeding shall be reopened by the Settlement Commission
under this section after the expiry of five years from the date of
application: 159 [Provided further that no proceeding shall be reopened by the
Settlement Commission under this section in a case where an application under
section 32E is made on or after the 1st day of June, 2007.]]
The Central Excise Act, 1944
*32J. Inspection, etc., of reports.—No person shall be entitled to inspect, or obtain copies of, any report made by any Central Excise Officer to the Settlement Commission; but the Settlement Commission may, in its discretion furnish copies thereof to any such person on an application made to it in this behalf and on payment of the prescribed fee: Provided that, for the purpose of enabling any person whose case is under consideration to rebut any evidence brought on record against him in any such report, the Settlement Commission shall, on an application made in this behalf, and on payment of the prescribed fee by such person, furnish him with a certified copy of any such report or part thereof relevant for the purpose.
160 [32K. Power of Settlement Commission to grant immunity from prosecution
and penalty.—
(1) The Settlement Commission may, if it is satisfied that any person who made
the application for settlement under section 32E has co-operated with the
Settlement Commission in the proceedings before it and has made a full and
true disclosure of his duty liability, grant to such person, subject to such
conditions as it may think fit to impose, immunity from prosecution for any
offence under this Act 161 [and also either wholly or in part from the
imposition of any penalty and fine] under this Act, with respect to the case
covered by the settlement: Provided that no such immunity shall be granted by
the Settlement Commission in cases where the proceedings for the prosecution
for any such offence have been instituted before the date of receipt of the
application under section 32E. 162 [Explanation.—For the removal of doubts, it
is hereby declared that applications filed before the Settlement Commission on
or before the 31st day of May, 2007 shall be disposed of as if the amendment
in this section had not come into force.]
(2) An immunity granted to a person under sub-section (1) shall stand
withdrawn if such person fails to pay any sum specified in the order of the
settlement passed under 163 [sub-section (5) of section 32F within the time
specified in such order] or fails to comply with any other condition subject
to which the immunity has granted and thereupon the provisions of this Act
shall apply as if such immunity has not been granted.
(3) An immunity granted to a person under sub-section (1) may, at any time, be
withdrawn by the Settlement Commission, if it is satisfied that such person
had, in the course of the settlement proceedings, concealed any particular
material to the settlement or had given false evidence, and thereupon such
person may be tried for the offence with respect to which the immunity was
granted or for any other offence of which he appears to have been guilty in
connection with the settlement and shall also become liable to the imposition
of any penalty under this Act to which such person would have been liable, had
no such immunity been granted.]
The Central Excise Act, 1944
*32L. Power of Settlement Commission to send a case back to the Central Excise Officer.—
(1) The Settlement Commission may, if it is of opinion that any person who
made an application for settlement under section 32E has not co-operated with
the Settlement Commission in the proceedings before it, send the case back to
the Central Excise Officer having jurisdiction who shall thereupon dispose of
the case in accordance with the provisions of this Act as if no application
under section 32E had been made.
(2) For purpose of sub-section (1), the Central Excise Officer shall be
entitled to use all the materials and other information produced by the
assessee before the Settlement Commission or the result of the inquiry held or
evidence recorded by the Settlement Commission in the course of the
proceedings before it as if such materials, information, inquiry and evidence
had been produced before such Central Excise Officer or held or recorded by
him in the course of the proceedings before him.
(3) For the purposes of the time limit under section 11A and for the purposes
of interest under section 11BB, in a case referred to in sub-section (1), the
period commencing on and from the date of the application to the Settlement
Commission under section 32E and ending with the date of receipt by the
Central Excise Officer of the order of the Settlement Commission sending the
case back to the Central Excise Officer shall be excluded.
164 [32M. Order of settlement to be conclusive.—Every order of settlement
passed under sub-section [(5)] of section 32F shall be conclusive as to the
matters stated therein and no matter covered by such order shall, save as
otherwise provided in this Chapter, be reopened in any proceeding under this
Act or under any other law for the time being in force.]
166 [32N. Recovery of sums due under order of settlement.—Any sum specified in
an order of settlement passed under sub-section 167 [(5)] of section 32F may,
subject to such conditions if any, as may be specified therein, be recovered,
and any penalty for default in making payment of such sum may be imposed and
recovered as sums due to the Central Government in accordance with the
provisions under section 11 by the Central Excise Officer having jurisdiction
over the person who made the application for settlement under section 32E.]
169 [ 32-O Bar on subsequent application for settlement in certain cases. —
170 [
(1) ] 171 [Where, 172 [***]]—
(i) an order of settlement passed under sub-section (7) of section 32F 173 [,
as it stood immediately before the commencement of section 122 of the Finance
Act, 2007 (22 of 2007) or sub-section (5) of section 32F] provides for the
imposition of a penalty on the person who made the application under section
32E for settlement, on the ground of concealment of particulars of his duty
liability; or
(ii) after the passing of an order of settlement under the said sub-section
(7) 174 [, as it stood immediately before the commencement of section 122 of
the Finance Act, 2007 (22 of 2007) or sub-section (5) of section 32F] in
relation to a case, such person is convicted of any offence under this Act in
relation to that case; or
(iii) the case of such person is sent back to the Central Excise Officer
having jurisdiction by the Settlement Commission under section 32L, then, he
shall not be entitled to apply for settlement under section 32E in relation to
any other matter.  175 [***] ]
This Act has been applied to—
(1) all the partially excluded areas in the State of Orissa by Orissa
Government Notification No. 1226-II-C-13/44-Com., dated 21st March, 1944;
(2) Darjeeling District with effect from 28th February, 1944, see Bengal
Government Notification No. 342-R, dated 22nd March, 1944;
(3) excluded areas in the State of Madras (with modifications), see Madras
Government Notification No. 37, Fort St. George Ga­zette, Pt. I, p. 281, dated
11th April, 1944;
(4) partially excluded areas in the State of Madras with effect from 28th
February, 1944, see Madras Government Notification No. 745-Public-Political,
dated 4th March, 1944. This Act has been extended to Goa, Daman and Diu by
Reg. 12 of 1962, sec. 3 and Sch.; to Dadra and Nagar Haveli by Reg. 6 of 1963,
sec. 2 and Sch. I and to the whole of the Union territory of Lak­shadweep by
Reg. 8 of 1965, sec. 3 and Sch.
The Central Excise Act, 1944
*32P. Proceedings before Settlement Commission to be judicial proceedings.—Any proceedings under this Chapter before the Settlement Commission shall be deemed to be a judicial proceeding within the meaning of sections 193 and 228, and for the purpose of section 196 of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860).]
176 [ 177 [32PA. Certain persons who have filed appeals to the Appellate
Tribunal entitled to make applications to the Settlement Commission.—[Rep. by
the Finance Act, 2007 (22 of 2007), sec. 129 (w.e.f. 1-6-2007).]]
The Central Excise Act, 1944
33. Power of adjudication.—1[Where under this Act or by rules made thereunder] anything is liable to confiscation or any person is liable to a penalty, such confiscation or penalty may be adjudged—
(a) without limit, by a 2[Commissioner of Central Excise];
(b) up to confiscation of goods not exceeding five hundred rupees in value and
imposition of penalty not exceeding two hundred and fifty rupees, by an
3[Assistant Commissioner of Central Excise or Deputy Commissioner of Central
Excise]: Provided that the 4[Central Board of Excise and Customs consti­tuted
under the Central Boards of Revenue Act, 1963 (54 of 1963)] may, in the case
of any officer performing the duties of an 3[Assistant Commissioner of Central
Excise or Deputy Commissioner of Central Excise], reduce the limits indicated
in clause (b) of this section and may confer on any officer the powers
indicated in clause (a) or (b) of this sec­tion.
The Central Excise Act, 1944
1[33A. Adjudication procedure.—
(1) The Adjudicating authority shall, in any proceeding under this Chapter or
any other provision of this Act, give an opportunity of being heard to a party
in a proceeding, if the party so desires.
(2) The Adjudicating authority may, if sufficient cause is shown, at any stage
of proceeding referred to in sub-section (1), grant time, from time to time,
to the parties or any of them and adjourn the hearing for reasons to be
recorded in writing: Provided that no such adjournment shall be granted more
than three times to a party during the proceeding.]
The Central Excise Act, 1944
34. Option to pay fine in lieu of confiscation.—Wherever confis­cation is adjudged under this Act or the rules made thereunder, the officer adjudging it shall give the owner of the goods an option to pay in lieu of confiscation such fine as the officer thinks fit.
The Central Excise Act, 1944
1[34A. Confiscation or penalty not to interfere with other punish­ments.—No
confiscation made or penalty imposed under the provi­sions of this Act or of
any rule made thereunder shall prevent the infliction of any other punishment
to which the person af­fected thereby is liable under the provisions of this
Act or under any other law.]
The Central Excise Act, 1944
35. Appeals to 1[Commissioner (Appeals)].—
(1) Any person ag­grieved by any decision or order passed under this Act by a
Central Excise Officer lower in rank than a 2[Commissioner of Central Excise]
may appeal to the 3[Commissioner of Central Excise (Appeals)] [hereafter in
this Chapter referred to as the 1[Commissioner (Appeals)]] 4[within sixty
days] from the date of the communica­tion to him of such decision or order:
5[Provided that the Commissioner (Appeals) may, if he is satis­fied that the
appellant was prevented by sufficient cause from presenting the appeal within
the aforesaid period of sixty days, allow it to be presented within a further
period of thirty days.] 6[(1A) The Commissioner (Appeals) may, if sufficient
cause is shown, at any stage of hearing of an appeal, grant time, from time to
time, to the parties or any of them and adjourn the hearing of the appeal for
reasons to be recorded in writing: Provided that no such adjournment shall be
granted more than three times to a party during hearing of the appeal.]
(2) Every appeal under this section shall be in the prescribed form and shall
be verified in the prescribed manner.
The Central Excise Act, 1944
35A. Procedure in appeal.—
(1) The 1[Commissioner (Appeals)] shall give an opportunity to the appellant
to be heard, if he so desires.
(2) The 1[Commissioner (Appeals)] may, at the hearing of an appeal, allow an
appellant to go into any ground of appeal not specified in the grounds of
appeal, if the 1[Commissioner (Ap­peals)] is satisfied that the omission of
that ground from the grounds of appeal was not wilful or unreasonable.
(3) 2[The Commissioner (Appeals) shall, after making such further inquiry as
may be necessary, pass such order as he thinks just and proper confirming,
modifying or annulling the decision or order appealed against:] Provided that
an order enhancing any penalty or fine in lieu of confiscation or confiscating
goods of greater value or reducing the amount of refund shall not be passed
unless the appellant has been given a reasonable opportunity of showing cause
against the proposed order: Provided further that where the 1[Commissioner
(Appeals)] is of opinion that any duty of excise has not been levied or paid
or has been short-levied or short-paid or erroneously refunded, no order
requiring the appellant to pay any duty not levied or paid, short-levied or
short-paid or erroneously refunded shall be passed unless the appellant is
given notice within the time limit specified in section 11A to show cause
against the proposed order.
(4) The order of the 1[Commissioner (Appeals)] disposing of the appeal shall
be in writing and shall state the points for deter­mination, the decision
thereon and the reasons for the decision. 3[(4A) The Commissioner (Appeals)
shall, where it is possible to do so, hear and decide every appeal within a
period of six months from the date on which it is filed.]
(5) On the disposal of the appeal, the 1[Commissioner (Appeals)] shall
communicate the order passed by him to the appellant, the adjudicating
authority 4[, the Chief Commissioner of Central Excise and the Commissioner of
Central Excise].
The Central Excise Act, 1944
35B. Appeals to the Appellate Tribunal.—
(1) Any person aggrieved by any of the following orders may appeal to the
Appellate Tribu­nal against such order—
(a) a decision or order passed by the 1[Commissioner of Central Excise] as an
adjudicating authority;
(b) an order passed by the 2[Commissioner (Appeals)] under sec­tion 35A;
(c) an order passed by the Central Board of Excise and Customs constituted
under the Central Boards of Revenue Act, 1963 (54 of 1963) (hereafter in this
Chapter referred to as the Board) or the 3[Appellate Commissioner of Central
Excise] under section 35, as it stood immediately before the appointed day;
(d) an order passed by the Board or the 4[Commissioner of Central Excise],
either before or after the appointed day, under section 35A, as it stood
immediately before that day: 5[Provided that no appeal shall lie to the
Appellate Tribunal and the Appellate Tribunal shall not have jurisdiction to
decide any appeal in respect of any order referred to in clause (b) if such
order relates to,—
(a) a case of loss of goods, where the loss occurs in transit from a factory
to a warehouse or to another factory, or from one warehouse to another, or
during the course of processing of the goods in a warehouse or in storage,
whether in a factory or in a warehouse;
(b) a rebate of duty of excise on goods, exported to any country or territory
outside India or on excisable materials used in the manufacture of goods which
are exported to any country or terri­tory outside India;
(c) goods exported outside India (except to Nepal or Bhutan) without payment
of duty; 6[(d) credit of any duty allowed to be utilised towards payment of
excise duty on final products under the provisions of this Act or the rules
made thereunder and such order is passed by the Commissioner (Appeals) on or
after the date appointed under section 109 of the Finance (No. 2) Act, 1998:]
Provided further that] the appellate Tribunal may, in its discre­tion, refuse
to admit an appeal in respect of an order referred to in clause (b) or clause
(c) or clause (d) where—
(i) in any disputed case, other than a case where the determina­tion of any
question having a relation to the rate of duty of excise or to the value of
goods for purposes of assessment is in issue or is one of the points in issue,
the difference in duty involved or the duty involved; or
(ii) the amount of fine or penalty determined by such order, does not exceed
7[fifty thousand rupees]. 8[(1A) Every appeal against any order of the nature
referred to in the first proviso to sub-section (1), which is pending
immedi­ately before the commencement of section 47 of the Finance Act, 1984
(21 of 1984), before the Appellate Tribunal and any matter arising out of, or
connected with, such appeal and which is so pending shall stand transferred on
such commencement to the Central Government, and the Central Government shall
deal with such appeal or matter under section 35EE as if such appeal or matter
were an application or a matter arising out of an applica­tion made to it
under that section.] 9[((1B) (i) The Central Board of Excise and Customs
constituted under the Central Boards of Revenue Act, 1963 (54 of 1963) may by
notification in the Official Gazette, constitute such Committees as may be
necessary for the purposes of this Act.
(ii) Every Committee constituted under clause (i) shall consist of two Chief
Commissioners of Central Excise or two Commissioners of Central Excise, as the
case may be.] 10[(2) 11[The Committee of Commissioners of Central Excise may,
if it is] of opinion that an order passed by the 12[Appellate Commissioner of
Central Excise] under section 35, as it stood immediately before the appointed
day, or the 13[Commissioner (Appeals)] under section 35A, is not legal or
proper, direct any Central Excise Officer authorised by him in this behalf
(hereafter in this Chapter referred to as the authorised officer) to appeal
14[on its behalf] to the Appellate Tribunal against such order.
(3) Every appeal under this section shall be filed within three months from
the date on which the order sought to be appealed against is communicated to
the 15[Commissioner of Central Excise], or, as the case may be, the other
party preferring the appeal.
(4) On receipt of notice that an appeal has been preferred under this section,
the party against whom the appeal has been pre­ferred may, notwithstanding
that he may not have appealed against such order or any part thereof, file,
within forty-five days of the receipt of the notice, a memorandum of cross-
objections verified in the prescribed manner against any part of the order
appealed against and such memorandum shall be disposed of by the Appellate
Tribunal as if it were an appeal presented within the time specified in sub-
section (3).
(5) The Appellate Tribunal may admit an appeal or permit the filing of a
memorandum of cross-objections after the expiry of the relevant period
referred to in sub-section (3) or sub-section (4), if it is satisfied that
there was sufficient cause for not presenting it within that period. 16[(6) An
appeal to the Appellate Tribunal shall be in the prescribed form and shall be
verified in the prescribed manner and shall, irrespective of the date of
demand of duty and interest or of levy of penalty in relation to which the
appeal is made, be accompanied by a fee of,—
(a) where the amount of duty and interest demanded and penalty levied by any
Central Excise Officer in the case to which the appeal relates is five lakh
rupees or less, one thousand rupees; (b where the amount of duty and interest
demanded and penalty levied by any Central Excise Officer in the case to which
the appeal relates is more than five lakh rupees but not exceeding fifty lakh
rupees, five thousand rupees;
(c) where the amount of duty and interest demanded and penalty levied by any
Central Excise Officer in the case to which the appeal relates is more than
fifty lakh rupees, ten thousand rupees: Provided that no such fee shall be
payable in the case of an appeal referred to in sub-section (2) or a
memorandum of cross-objections referred to in sub-section (4).
(7) Every application made before the Appellate Tribunal,—
(a) in an appeal for grant of stay or for rectification of mistake or for any
other purpose; or
(b) for restoration of an appeal or an application, shall be accompanied by a
fee of five hundred rupees: Provided that no such fee shall be payable in the
case of an application filed by or on behalf of the Commissioner of Central
Excise under this sub-section.]
The Central Excise Act, 1944
35C. Orders of Appellate Tribunal.—
(1) The Appellate Tribunal may, after giving the parties to the appeal an
opportunity of being heard, pass such orders thereon as it thinks fit,
confirm­ing, modifying or annulling the decision or order appealed against or
may refer the case back to the authority which passed such decision or order
with such directions as the Appellate Tribunal may think fit, for a fresh
adjudication or decision, as the case may be, after taking additional
evidence, if necessary. 1[(1A) The Appellate Tribunal may, if sufficient cause
is shown, at any stage of hearing of an appeal, grant time, from time to time,
to the parties or any of them and adjourn the hearing of the appeal for
reasons to be recorded in writing: Provided that no such adjournment shall be
granted more than three times to a party during hearing of the appeal.]
(2) The Appellate Tribunal may, at any time within 2[six months] from the date
of the order, with a view to rectifying any mistake apparent from the record,
amend any order passed by it under sub-section (1) and shall make such
amendments if the mistake is brought to its notice by the 3[Commissioner of
Central Excise] or the other party to the appeal: Provided that an amendment
which has the effect of enhancing an assessment or reducing a refund or
otherwise increasing the liability of the other party, shall not be made under
this sub-section, unless the Appellate Tribunal has given notice to him of its
intention to do so and has allowed him a reasonable opportu­nity of being
heard. 4[(2A) The Appellate Tribunal shall, where it is possible to do so,
hear and decide every appeal within a period of three years from the date on
which such appeal is filed: Provided that where an order of stay is made in
any proceedings relating to an appeal filed under sub-section (1) of section
35B, the Appellate Tribunal shall dispose of the appeal within a period of one
hundred and eighty days from the date of such order: Provided further that if
such appeal is not disposed of within the period specified in the first
proviso, the stay order shall, on the expiry of that period, stand vacated.]
(3) The Appellate Tribunal shall send a copy of every order passed under this
section to the 3[Commissioner of Central Ex­cise] and the other party to the
appeal.
(4) 5[Save as provided in the National Tax Tribunal Act, 2005], orders passed
by the Appellate Tribunal on appeal shall be final.
The Central Excise Act, 1944
35D. Procedure of Appellate Tribunal.—
(1) The provisions of sub-sections (1), (2), (5) and (6) of section 129C of
the Customs Act, 1962 (52 of 1962), shall apply to the Appellate Tribunal in
the discharge of its functions under this Act as they apply to it in the
dis­charge of its functions under the Customs Act, 1962 (52 of 1962). 1[***]
(3) The President or any other member of the Appellate Tribunal authorised in
this behalf by the President may, sitting singly, dispose of any case which
has been allotted to the Bench of which he is a member where—
(a) in any disputed case, other than a case where the determina­tion of any
question having a relation to the rate of duty of excise or to the value of
goods for purposes of assessment is in issue or is one of the points in issue,
the difference in duty involved or the duty involved; or
(b) the amount of fine or penalty involved, does not exceed 2[3[4[ten lakh
rupees]]].
35E. Powers of Board or 219 [Commissioner of Central Excise] to pass certain
orders.—
(1) The Board may, of its own motion, call for and examine the record of any
proceeding in which a 219 [Commission­er of Central Excise] as an adjudicating
authority has passed any decision or order under this Act for the purpose of
satisfying itself as to the legality or propriety of any such decision or
order and may, by order, direct such 220 [Commissioner] 221 [or any other
commissioner] to apply to the Appellate Tribunal 222 [or, as the case may be,
the Customs and Excise Revenues Appellate Tribunal established under section 3
of the Customs and Excise Revenues Appellate Tribunal Act, 1986 (62 of 1986)]
for the determination of such points arising out of the decision or order as
may be specified by the 223 [Committee of Chief Commissioners of Central
Excise] in its order.
(2) The 219 [Commissioner of Central Excise] may, of his own motion, call for
and examine the record of any proceeding in which an adjudicating authority
subordinate to him has passed any decision or order under this Act for the
purpose of satisfying himself as to the legality or propriety of any such
decision or order and may, by order, direct 224 [such authority or any Central
Excise Officer subordinate to him] to apply to the 225 [Commis­sioner
(Appeals)] for the determination of such points arising out of the decision or
order as may be specified by the 219 [Commis­sioner of Central Excise] in his
order.
226 [(3) The Committee of Chief Commissioners of Central Excise or the
Commissioner of Central Excise, as the case may be, shall make order under
sub-section (1) or sub-section (2) within a period of three months from the
date of communication of the decision or order of the adjudicating authority.]
(4) Where in pursuance of an order under sub-section (1) or sub-section (2),
the adjudicating authority or the authorised officer makes an application to
the Appellate Tribunal 4[or, as the case may be, the Customs and Excise
Revenues Appellate Tribunal estab­lished under section 3 of the Customs and
Excise Revenues Appel­late Tribunal Act, 1986 (62 of 1986)] or the 225
[Commissioner (Appeals)] within a period of 227 [one month] from the date of
communication of the order under sub-section (1) or sub-section (2) to the
adjudicat­ing authority, such application shall be heard by the Appellate
Tribunal 4[or, as the case may be, the Customs and Excise Reve­nues Appellate
Tribunal established under section 3 of the Cus­toms and Excise Revenues
Appellate Tribunal Act, 1986] or the 225 [Commissioner (Appeals)], as the case
may be, as if such appli­cation were an appeal made against the decision or
order of the adjudicating authority and the provisions of this Act regarding
appeals, including the provisions of sub-section (4) of section 35B 4[or, as
the case may be, the provisions of the Customs and Excise Revenues Appellate
Tribunal Act, 1986] shall, so far as may be, apply to such application.
228 [(5) The provisions of this section shall not apply to any deci­sion or
order in which the determination of any question having a relation to the rate
of duty of excise or to the value of goods for the purposes of assessment of
any duty is in issue or is one of the points in issue. Explanation.—For the
purposes of this sub-section, the determi­nation of a rate of duty in relation
to any goods or valuation of any goods for the purposes of assessment of duty
includes the determination of a question—
(a) relating to the rate of duty of excise for the time being in force,
whether under the Central Excise Tariff Act, 1985 (5 of 1986), or under any
other Central Act providing for the levy and collection of any duty of excise,
in relation to any goods on or after the 28th day of February, 1986; or tc"
(a) relating to the rate of duty of excise for the time being in force,
whether under the Central Excise Tariff Act, 1985 (5 of 1986), or under any
other Central Act providing for the levy and collection of any duty of excise,
in relation to any goods on or after the 28th day of February, 1986; or"
(b) relating to the value of goods for the purposes of assessment of any duty
of excise in cases where the assessment is made on or after the 28th day of
February, 1986; or tc" (b) relating to the value of goods for the purposes of
assessment of any duty of excise in cases where the assessment is made on or
after the 28th day of February, 1986; or"
(c) whether any goods are excisable goods or whether the rate of duty of
excise on any goods is nil; or tc" (c) whether any goods are excisable goods
or whether the rate of duty of excise on any goods is nil; or"
(d) whether any goods fall under a particular heading or sub-heading of 229
the First Schedule and the Second Schedule] to the Central Excise Tariff Act,
1985 (5 of 1986), or the Additional Duties of Excise (Goods of Special
Importance) Act, 1957 (58 of 1957), or the Additional Duties of Excise
(Textiles and Textile Articles) Act, 1978 (40 of 1978), or that any goods are
or not covered by a particular notification or order issued by the Central
Government or the Board, as the case may be, granting total or partial
exemption from duty; or tc" (d) whether any goods fall under a particular
heading or sub-heading of 1[the First Schedule and the Second Schedule] to the
Central Excise Tariff Act, 1985 (5 of 1986), or the Additional Duties of
Excise (Goods of Special Importance) Act, 1957 (58 of 1957), or the Additional
Duties of Excise (Textiles and Textile Articles) Act, 1978 (40 of 1978), or
that any goods are or not covered by a particular notification or order issued
by the Central Government or the Board, as the case may be, granting total or
partial exemption from duty; or"
(e) whether the value of any goods for the purposes of assess­ment of duty of
excise shall be enhanced or reduced by the addi­tion or reduction of the
amounts in respect of such matters as are specifically provided in this Act.]
The Central Excise Act, 1944
1[35EA. Powers of revision of Board or 2[Commissioner of Central Excise] in
certain cases.—
(1) The Board may, of its own motion or on the applica­tion of any aggrieved
person or otherwise, call for and examine the record of any proceeding in
which a 2[Commissioner of Central Excise] has passed any decision or order
[not being a decision or order passed under sub-section (2) of this section]
of the nature referred to in sub-section (5) of section 35E for the purpose of
satisfying itself as to correctness, legality or propriety of such decision or
order and may pass such order thereon as it thinks fit.
(2) The 2[Commissioner of Central Excise] may, of his own motion or on the
application of any aggrieved person or otherwise, call for and examine the
record of any proceeding in which an adjudi­cating authority subordinate to
him has passed any decision or order of the nature referred to in sub-section
(5) of section 35E, for the purpose of satisfying himself as to the
correctness, legality or propriety of such decision or order and may pass such
order thereon as he thinks fit.
(3) (a) No decision or order under this section shall be made so as to
prejudicially affect any person unless such person is given a reasonable
opportunity of making representation and if, he so desires, of being heard in
his defence.
(b) Where the Board or, as the case may be, the 2[Commissioner of Central
Excise] is of the opinion that any duty of excise has not been levied or has
been short-levied or short-paid or erroneously refunded, no order requiring
the affected person to pay any duty not levied or paid, short-levied or short-
paid or erroneously refunded shall be passed under this section unless such
person is given notice within the time limit specified in section 11A to show
cause against the proposed order.
(4) No proceedings shall be initiated under sub-section (1) or sub-section (2)
in respect of any decision or order after the expiry of a period of six months
from the date of communication of such decision or order: Provided that in
respect of any decision or order passed before the commencement of the Customs
and Central Excise Laws (Amend­ment) Act, 1987 (29 of 1988), the provisions of
this sub-section shall have effect as if for the words “six months”, the words
“one year” were substituted.
(5) Any person aggrieved by any decision or order passed under sub-section (1)
or sub-section (2) may appeal to the Customs and Excise Revenues Appellate
Tribunal established under section 3 of the Customs and Excise Revenues
Appellate Tribunal Act, 1986 (62 of 1986), against such decision or order.]
The Central Excise Act, 1944
1[35EE. Revision by Central Government.—
(1) The Central Govern­ment may, on the application of any person aggrieved by
any order passed under section 35A, where the order is of the nature re­ferred
to in the first proviso to sub-section (1) of section 35B, annul or modify
such order: 2[Provided that the Central Government may in its discretion,
refuse to admit an application in respect of an order where the amount of duty
or fine or penalty, determined by such order does not exceed five thousand
rupees.] Explanation.—For the purposes of this sub-section,“order passed under
section 35A” includes an order passed under that section before the
commencement of section 47 of the Finance Act, 1984 (21 of 1984) against which
an appeal has not been preferred before such com­mencement and could have
been, if the said section had not come into force, preferred after such
commencement, to the Appellate Tribunal. 2[(1A) The Commissioner of Central
Excise may, if he is of the opinion that an order passed by the Commissioner
(Appeals) under section 35A is not legal or proper, direct the proper officer
to make an application on his behalf to the Central Government for revision of
such order.]
(2) An application under sub-section (1) shall be made within three months
from the date of the communication to the applicant of the order against which
the application is being made: Provided that the Central Government may, if it
is satisfied that the applicant was prevented by sufficient cause from
presenting the application within the aforesaid period of three months, allow
it to be presented within a further period of three months. 3[(3) An
application under sub-section (1) shall be in such form and shall be verified
in such manner as may be specified by rules made in this behalf and shall be
accompanied by a fee of,—
(a) two hundred rupees, where the amount of duty and interest demanded, fine
or penalty levied by any Central Excise Officer in the case to which
application relates is one lakh rupees or less;
(b) one thousand rupees, where the amount of duty and interest demanded, fine
or penalty levied by an Central Excise Officer in the case to which the
application relates is more than one lakh rupees: Provided that no such fee
shall be payable in the case of an application referred to in sub-section
(1A).]
(4) The Central Government may, of its own motion, annul or modify any order
referred to in sub-section (1).
(5) No order enhancing any penalty or fine in lieu of confisca­tion or
confiscating goods of greater value shall be passed under this section,—
(a) in any case in which an order passed under section 35A has enhanced any
penalty or fine in lieu of confiscation or has confiscated goods of greater
value, and
(b) in any other case, unless the person affected by the proposed order has
been given notice to show cause against it within one year from the date of
the order sought to be annulled or modi­fied.
(6) Where the Central Government is of opinion that any duty of excise has not
been levied or has been short-levied, no order levying or enhancing the duty
shall be made under this section unless the person affected by the proposed
order is given notice to show cause against it within the time limit specified
in sec­tion 11A.]
35F. Deposit, pending appeal of duty demanded or penalty levied.—Where in any
appeal under this Chapter, the decision or order appealed against relates to
any duty demanded in respect of goods which are not under the control of
central excise authori­ties or any penalty levied under this Act, the person
desirous of appealing against such decision or order shall, pending the
appeal, deposit with the adjudicating authority the duty demanded or the
penalty levied: Provided that where in any particular case, the 235
[Commissioner (Appeals)] or the Appellate Tribunal is of opinion that the
deposit of duty demanded or penalty levied would cause undue hardship to such
person, the 235 [Commissioner (Appeals)] or, as the case may be, the Appellate
Tribunal, may dispense with such deposit subject to such conditions as he or
it may deem fit to impose so as to safeguard the interests of revenue: 236
[Provided further that where an application is filed before the Commissioner
(Appeals) for dispensing with the deposit of duty demanded or penalty levied
under the first proviso, the Commissioner (Appeals) shall, where it is
possible to do so, decide such application within thirty days from the date of
its filling.] 237 [Explanation.—For the purposes of this section “duty
demanded” shall include,—
(i) amount determined under section 11D; tc" (i) amount determined under
section 11D;"
(ii) amount of erroneous CENVAT credit taken; tc" (ii) amount of erroneous
CENVAT credit taken;"
(iii) amount payable under rule 57CC of Central Excise Rules, 1944; tc" (iii)
amount payable under rule 57CC of Central Excise Rules, 1944;"
(iv) amount payable under rule 6 of CENVAT Credit Rules, 2001 or CENVAT Credit
Rules, 2002 or CENVAT Credit Rules, 2004; tc" (iv) amount payable under rule 6
of CENVAT Credit Rules, 2001 or CENVAT Credit Rules, 2002 or CENVAT Credit
Rules, 2004;"
(v) interest payable under the provisions of this Act or the rules made
thereunder.] tc" (v) interest payable under the provisions of this Act or the
rules made thereunder.]"
238 [ 35FF Interest on delayed refund of amount deposited under the proviso to
section 35F. —Where an amount deposited by the appellant in pursuance of an
order passed by the Commissioner (Appeals) or the Appellate Tribunal
(hereinafter referred to as the appellate authority), under the first proviso
to section 35F, is required to be refunded consequent upon the order of the
appellate authority and such amount is not refunded within three months from
the date of communication of such order to the adjudicating authority, unless
the operation of the order of the appellate authority is stayed by a superior
court or tribunal, there shall be paid to the appellant interest at the rate
specified in section 11BB after the expiry of three months from the date of
communication of the order of the appellate authority, till the date of refund
of such amount.]
240 [ 241 [ 35G Appeal to High Court. —[ Rep. by the National Tax Tribunal
Act, 2005 (49 of 2005), sec. 30 and Sch., Pt. VII-6 (w.e.f. 28-12-2005). ]]
(1) all the partially excluded areas in the State of Orissa by Orissa
Government Notification No. 1226-II-C-13/44-Com., dated 21st March, 1944;
(2) Darjeeling District with effect from 28th February, 1944, see Bengal
Government Notification No. 342-R, dated 22nd March, 1944;
(3) excluded areas in the State of Madras (with modifications), see Madras
Government Notification No. 37, Fort St. George Ga­zette, Pt. I, p. 281, dated
11th April, 1944;
(4) partially excluded areas in the State of Madras with effect from 28th
February, 1944, see Madras Government Notification No. 745-Public-Political,
dated 4th March, 1944.
(a) filed within one hundred and eighty days from the date on which the order
appealed against is received by the Commissioner of Central Excise or the
other party;
(b) accompanied by a fee of two hundred rupees where such appeal is filed by
the other party;
(c) in the form of a memorandum of appeal precisely stating therein the
substantial question of law involved.
(a) has not been determined by the Appellate Tribunal; or
(b) has been wrongly determined by the Appellate Tribunal, by reason of a
decision on such question of law as is referred to in sub-section (1).
243 [ 244 [ 35H Application to High Court. —[ Rep. by the National Tax
Tribunal Act, 2005 (49 of 2005), sec. 30 and Sch., Pt. VII-6 (w.e.f.
28-12-2005). ]]
(1) all the partially excluded areas in the State of Orissa by Orissa
Government Notification No. 1226-II-C-13/44-Com., dated 21st March, 1944;
(2) Darjeeling District with effect from 28th February, 1944, see Bengal
Government Notification No. 342-R, dated 22nd March, 1944;
(3) excluded areas in the State of Madras (with modifications), see Madras
Government Notification No. 37, Fort St. George Ga­zette, Pt. I, p. 281, dated
11th April, 1944;
(4) partially excluded areas in the State of Madras with effect from 28th
February, 1944, see Madras Government Notification No. 745-Public-Political,
dated 4th March, 1944.
The Central Excise Act, 1944
1[35-I. Power of High Court or Supreme Court to require statement to be
amended.—[Rep. by the National Tax Tribunal Act, 2005 (49 of 2005), sec. 30
and Sch., Pt. VII-6 (w.e.f. 28-12-2005).]]
The Central Excise Act, 1944
1[35J. Case before High Court to be heard by not less than two Judges.—[Rep.
by the National Tax Tribunal Act, 2005 (49 of 2005), sec. 30 and Sch., Pt.
VII-6 (w.e.f. 28-12-2005).]]
The Central Excise Act, 1944
35K. Decision of High Court or Supreme Court on the case stated.—
(1) The 1[***] Supreme Court hearing any such case shall decide the questions
of law raised therein and shall deliv­er its judgment thereon containing the
grounds on which such decision is founded and a copy of the judgment shall be
sent under the seal of the Court and the signature of the Registrar to the
Appellate Tribunal which shall pass such orders as are neces­sary to dispose
of the case in conformity with such judgment. 2[(1A) Where the High Court
delivers a judgment in an appeal filed before it under section 35G, effect
shall be given to the order passed on the appeal by the concerned Central
Excise Officer on the basis of a certified copy of the judgment.]
(2) The costs of any 3[reference to the 4[***] an appeal to 5[***] the Supreme
Court, 5[***]] which shall not include the fee for making the reference shall
be in the discretion of the Court.
The Central Excise Act, 1944
35L. Appeal to Supreme Court.—An appeal shall lie to the Supreme Court from—
1[
(a) any judgment of the High Court delivered—
(i) in an appeal made under section 35G; or
(ii) on a reference made under section 35G by the Appellate Tribunal before
the 1st day of July, 2003;
(iii) on a reference made under section 35H, in any case which, on its own
motion or on an oral application made by or on behalf of the party aggrieved,
immediately after passing of the judgment, the High Court certifies to be a
fit one for appeal to the Supreme Court; or]
(b) any order passed 2[before the establishment of the National Tax Tribunal]
by the Appellate Tribunal relating, among other things, to the determination
of any question having a rela­tion to the rate of duty of excise or to the
value of goods for purposes of assessment.
The Central Excise Act, 1944
35M. Hearing before Supreme Court.—
(1) The provisions of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908), relating
to appeals to the Supreme Court shall, so far as may be, apply in the case of
appeals under section 35L as they apply in the case of appeals from decrees of
a High Court: Provided that nothing in this sub-section shall be deemed to
affect the provisions of sub-section (1) of section 35K or section 35N.
(2) The costs of the appeal shall be in the discretion of the Supreme Court.
(3) Where the judgment of the High Court is varied or reversed in the appeal,
effect shall be given to the order of the Supreme Court in the manner provided
in section 35K in the case of a judgment of the High Court.
The Central Excise Act, 1944
35N. Sums due to be paid notwithstanding reference, etc.—Not­withstanding that
a reference has been made to the High Court or the Supreme Court or an appeal
has been preferred to the Supreme Court 1[under this Act before the
commencement of the National Tax Tribunal Act, 2005], sums due to the
Government as a result of an order passed under sub-section
(1) of section 35C shall be payable in accord­ance with the order so passed.
The Central Excise Act, 1944
35-O. Exclusion of time taken for copy.—In computing the period of limitation
prescribed for an appeal or application under this Chapter, the day on which
the order complained of was served, and if the party preferring the appeal or
making the application was not furnished with a copy of the order when the
notice of the order was served upon him, the time requisite for obtaining a
copy of such order shall be excluded.
The Central Excise Act, 1944
35P. Transfer of certain pending proceedings and transitional provisions.—
(1) Every appeal which is pending immediately before the appointed day before
the Board under section 35, as it stood immediately before that day, and any
matter arising out of or connected with such appeal and which is so pending
shall stand transferred on that day to the Appellate Tribunal and the
Appel­late Tribunal may proceed with such appeal or matter from the stage at
which it was on that day: Provided that the appellant may demand that before
proceeding further with that appeal or matter, he may be re-heard.
(2) Every proceeding which is pending immediately before the appointed day
before the Central Government under section 36, as it stood immediately before
that day, and any matter arising out of or connected with such proceeding and
which is so pending shall stand transferred on that day to the Appellate
Tribunal and the Appellate Tribunal may proceed with such proceeding or matter
from the stage at which it was on that day as if such proceeding or matter
were an appeal filed before it: Provided that if any such proceeding or matter
relates to an order where—
(a) in any disputed case, other than a case where the determina­tion of any
question having a relation to the rate of duty of excise or to the value of
goods for purposes of assessment is in issue or is one of the points in issue,
the difference in duty involved or the duty involved; or
(b) the amount of fine or penalty determined by such order, does not exceed
ten thousand rupees, such proceeding or matter shall continue to be dealt with
by the Central Government as if the said section 36 had not been substituted:
Provided further that the applicant or the other party may make a demand to
the Appellate Tribunal that before proceeding further with that proceeding or
matter, he may be re-heard.
(3) Every proceeding which is pending immediately before the appointed day
before the Board or the 1[Commissioner of Central Excise] under section 35A,
as it stood immediately before that day, and any matter arising out of or
connected with such pro­ceeding and which is so pending shall continue to be
dealt with by the Board or the 1[Commissioner of Central Excise], as the case
may be, as if the said section had not been substituted.
(4) Any person who immediately before the appointed day was authorised to
appear in any appeal or proceeding transferred under sub-section (1) or sub-
section (2) shall, notwithstanding anything contained in section 35Q, have the
right to appear before the Appellate Tribunal in relation to such appeal or
proceeding.
The Central Excise Act, 1944
35Q. Appearance by authorised representative.—
(1) Any person who is entitled or required to appear before a Central Excise
Officer or the Appellate Tribunal in connection with any proceedings under
this Act, otherwise than when required under this Act to appear personally for
examination on oath or affirmation, may, subject to the other provisions of
this section, appear by an autho­rised representative.
(2) For the purposes of this section, “authorised representative” means a
person authorised by the person referred to in sub-sec­tion (1) to appear on
his behalf, being—
(a) his relative or regular employee; or
(b) any legal practitioner who is entitled to practise in any civil Court in
India; or
(c) any person who has acquired such qualifications as the Cen­tral Government
may prescribe for this purpose.
(3) Notwithstanding anything contained in this section, no person who was a
member of the Indian Customs and Central Excise Serv­ice—Group A and has
retired or resigned from such service after having served for not less than
three years in any capacity in that service, shall be entitled to appear as an
authorised repre­sentative in any proceedings before a Central Excise Officer
for a period of two years from the date of his retirement or resigna­tion, as
the case may be.
(4) No person,—
(a) who has been dismissed or removed from Government service; or
(b) who is convicted of an offence connected with any proceeding under this
Act, the Customs Act, 1962 (52 of 1962) or the Gold (Control) Act, 1968 (45 of
1968); or
(c) who has become an insolvent, shall be qualified to represent any person
under sub-section (1), for all times in the case of a person referred to in
clause (a), and for such time as the 1[Commissioner of Central Excise] or the
competent authority under the Customs Act, 1962 (52 of 1962) or the Gold
(Control) Act, 1968 (45 of 1968), as the case may be, may, by order, determine
in the case of a person referred to in clause (b), and for the period during
which the insolvency contin­ues in the case of a person referred to in clause
(c).
(5) If any person,—
(a) who is a legal practitioner, is found guilty of misconduct in his
professional capacity by any authority entitled to institute proceedings
against him, an order passed by that authority shall have effect in relation
to his right to appear before a Central Excise Officer or the Appellate
Tribunal as it has in relation to his right to practise as a legal
practitioner;
(b) who is not a legal practitioner, is found guilty of miscon­duct in
connection with any proceedings under this Act by the prescribed authority,
the prescribed authority may direct that he shall thenceforth be disqualified
to represent any person under sub-section (1).
(6) Any order or direction under clause (b) of sub-section (4) or clause (b)
of sub-section (5) shall be subject to the following conditions, namely:—
(a) no such order or direction shall be made in respect of any person unless
he has been given a reasonable opportunity of being heard;
(b) any person against whom any such order or direction is made may, within
one month of the making of the order or direction, appeal to the Board to have
the order or direction cancelled; and
(c) no such order or direction shall take effect until the expi­ration of one
month from the making thereof, or, where an appeal has been preferred, until
the disposal of the appeal.
The Central Excise Act, 1944
36. Definitions.—In this Chapter—
(a) “appointed day” means the date1 of coming into force of the amendments to
this Act specified in Part II of the Fifth Schedule to the Finance(No. 2) Act,
1980 (44 of 1980);
(b) “High Court” means,—
(i) in relation to any State, the High Court for that State;
(ii) in relation to a Union Territory to which the jurisdiction of the High
Court of a State has been extended by law, that High Court;
(iii) in relation to the Union Territories of Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Goa,
Daman and Diu, the High Court at Bombay;
(iv) in relation to any other Union Territory, the highest Court of civil
appeal for that territory other than the Supreme Court of India;
(c) “President” means the President of the Appellate Tribunal.]
The Central Excise Act, 1944
1[36A. Presumption as to documents in certain cases.—Where any document is
produced by any person or has been seized from the custody or control of any
person, in either case, under this Act or under any other law and such
document is tendered by the prosecution in evidence against him and any other
person who is tried jointly with him, the Court shall,—
(a) unless the contrary is proved by such person, presume—
(i) the truth of the contents of such document;
(ii) that the signature and every other part of such document which purports
to be in the handwriting of any particular person or which the Court may
reasonably assume to have been signed by, or to be in the handwriting of, any
particular person, is in that person’s handwriting, and in the case of a
document executed or attested, that it was executed or attested by the person
by whom it purports to have been so executed or attested;
(b) admit the document in evidence, notwithstanding that it is not duly
stamped, if such document is otherwise admissible in evidence.]
The Central Excise Act, 1944
1[36B. Admissibility of micro films, facsimile copies of docu­ments and
computer print outs as documents and as evidence.—
(1) Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in
force,—
(a) a micro film of a document or the reproduction of the image or images
embodied in such micro film (whether enlarged or not); or
(b) a facsimile copy of a document; or
(c) a statement contained in a document and included in a printed material
produced by a computer (hereinafter referred to as a “computer print out”), if
the conditions mentioned in sub-section (2) and the other provisions contained
in this section are satis­fied in relation to the statement and the computer
in question, shall be deemed to be also a document for the purposes of this
Act and the rules made thereunder and shall be admissible in any proceedings
thereunder, without further proof or production of the original, as evidence
of any contents of the original or of any fact stated therein of which direct
evidence would be admis­sible.
(2) The conditions referred to in sub-section (1) in respect of a computer
print out shall be the following, namely:—
(a) the computer print out containing the statement was produced by the
computer during the period over which the computer was used regularly to store
or process information for the purposes of any activities regularly carried on
over that period by the person having lawful control over the use of the
computer;
(b) during the said period, there was regular supply to the computer in the
ordinary course of the said activities, informa­tion of the kind contained in
the statement or of the kind from which the information so contained is
derived;
(c) throughout the material part of the said period, the computer was
operating properly or, if not, then any respect in which it was not operating
properly or was out of operation during that part of period was not such as to
affect the production of the document or the accuracy of the contents; and
(d) the information contained in the statement reproduces or is derived from
information supplied to the computer in the ordinary course of the said
activities.
(3) Where over any period, the function of storing or processing information
for the purposes of any activities regularly carried on over that period as
mentioned in clause (a) of sub-section (2) was regularly performed by
computers, whether—
(a) by a combination of computers operating over that period; or
(b) by different computers operating in succession over that period; or
(c) by different combinations of computers operating in succes­sion over that
period; or
(d) in any other manner involving the successive operation over that period,
in whatever order, of one or more computers and one or more combinations of
computers, all the computers used for that purpose during that period shall be
treated for the purposes of this section as constituting a single computer;
and references in this section to a computer shall be construed accordingly.
(4) In any proceedings under this Act and the rules made thereun­der where it
is desired to give a statement in evidence by virtue of this section, a
certificate doing any of the following things, that is to say,—
(a) identifying the document containing the statement and de­scribing the
manner in which it was produced;
(b) giving such particulars of any device involved in the produc­tion of that
document as may be appropriate for the purpose of showing that the document
was produced by a computer;
(c) dealing with any of the matters to which the conditions mentioned in sub-
section (2) relate, and purporting to be signed by a person occupying a
responsible official position in relation to the operation of the relevant
device or the management of the relevant activities (whichever is appropriate)
shall be evidence of any matter stated in the cer­tificate; and for the
purposes of this sub-section it shall be sufficient for a matter to be stated
to the best of the knowledge and belief of the person stating it.
(5) For the purposes of this section,—
(a) information shall be taken to be supplied to a computer if it is supplied
thereto in any appropriate form and whether it is so supplied directly or
(with or without human intervention) by means of any appropriate equipment;
(b) whether in the course of activities carried on by any offi­cial,
information is supplied with a view to its being stored or processed for the
purposes of those activities by a computer operated otherwise than in the
course of those activities, that information, if duly supplied to that
computer, shall be taken to be supplied to it in the course of those
activ­ities;
(c) a document shall be taken to have been produced by a computer whether it
was produced by it directly or (with or without human intervention) by means
of any appropriate equipment. Explanation.—For the purposes of this section,—
(a) “computer” means any device that receives, stores and proc­esses data,
applying stipulated processes to the information and supplying results of
these processes; and
(b) any reference to information being derived from other infor­mation shall
be a reference to its being derived therefrom by calculation, comparison or
any other process.]
37 Power of Central Government to make rules. — 261
(1) The Central Government may make rules to carry into effect the purposes of
this Act.
(2) In particular, and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing
power, such rules may—
262 [(i) provide for determining under section 4 the nearest ascer­tainable
equivalent of the normal price;
(ia) having regard to the normal practice of the wholesale trade, define or
specify the kinds of trade discount to be excluded from the value under
section 4 including the circumstances in which and the conditions subject to
which such discount is to be so excluded;]
263 [(ib) ] provide for the assessment and collection of duties of excise, the
authorities by whom functions under this Act are to be discharged, the issue
of notices requiring payment, the manner in which the duties shall be payable,
and the recovery of duty not paid;
264 [(ibb) provide for charging or payment of interest on the differential
amount of duty which becomes payable or refundable upon finalisation of all or
any class of provisional assessments.]
265 [(ic) provide for the remission of duty of excise leviable on any
excisable goods, which due to any natural cause are found to be deficient in
quantity, the limit or limits of percentage beyond which no such remission
shall be allowed and the different limit or limits of percentage for different
varieties of the same excisable goods or for different areas or for different
seasons;]
266 [(id) provide for the amount to be paid 267 [for compounding and the
manner of compounding] under sub-section (2) of section 9A;]
(ii) prohibit absolutely, or with such exceptions, or subject to such
conditions as the Central Government thinks fit, the produc­tion or
manufacture, or any process of the production or manufac­ture, of excisa­ble
goods, or of any component parts or ingredients or containers thereof, except
on land or premises approved for the purpose;
(iii) prohibit absolutely, or with such exceptions, or subject to such
conditions as the Central Government thinks fit, 268 [***] the transit of
excisable goods from any part of 269 [India] to any other part thereof;
(iv) regulate the removal of excisable goods from the place where produced,
stored or manufactured or subjected to any process of production or
manufacture and their transport to or from the premises of a 270 [registered]
person, or a bonded warehouse, or to a market;
(v) regulate the production or manufacture, or any process of the production
or manufacture, the possession, storage and sale of salt, and so far as such
regulation is essential for the proper levy and collection of the duties
imposed by this Act, of any other excisable goods, or of any component parts
or ingredients or containers thereof;
(vi) provide for the employment of officers of the Government to supervise the
carrying out of any rules made under this Act;
(vii) require a manufacturer or the licensee of a warehouse to provide
accommodation within the precincts of his factory or warehouse for officers
employed to supervise the carrying out of regulations made under this Act and
prescribe the scale of such accommodation;
(viii) provide for the appointment, licensing, management and supervision of
bonded warehouses and the procedure to be followed in entering goods into and
clearing goods from such warehouses;
(ix) provide for the distinguishing of goods which have been 271 [manufactured
after registration], of materials which have been imported under licence, and
of goods on which duty has been paid, or which are exempt from duty under this
Act;
(x) impose on persons engaged in the production or manufacture, storage or
sale (whether on their own account or as brokers or commission agents) of
salt, and, so far as such imposition is essential for the proper levy and
collection of the duties im­posed by this Act, of any other excisable goods,
the duty of furnishing information, keeping records and making returns, and
prescribe the nature of such information and the form of such records and
returns, the particulars to be contained therein, and the manner in which they
shall be verified;
(xi) require that excisable goods shall not be sold or offered or kept for
sale in 272 [India] except in prescribed containers, bear­ing a banderol,
stamp or label of such nature and affixed in such manner as may be prescribed;
(xii) provide for the issue of 273 [registration certificates] and transport
permits and the fees, if any, to be charged therefore:
Provided that the fees for the licensing of the manufacture and refining of
salt and saltpetre shall not exceed, in the case of each such licence, the
following amounts, namely:—
(Rs) Licence to manufacture and refine saltpetre and to separate and purify
salt in the process of such manufacture and refining... 50 Licence to
manufacture saltpetre... 2
(Rs) Licence to manufacture sulphate of soda ( kharinun ) by solar heat in
evaporating pans... 10 Licence to manufacture sulphate of soda ( kharinun ) by
artificial heat. 2 Licence to manufacture other saline substances... 2;
(xiii) provide for the detention of goods, plant, machinery or material, for
the purpose of exacting the duty, the procedure in connection with the
confiscation, otherwise than under section 10 or section 28, of goods in
respect of which breaches of the Act or rules have been committed, and the
disposal of goods so de­tained or confiscated;
274 [(xiiia) provide for withdrawal of facilities or imposition of
restrictions (including restrictions on utilisation of CENVAT credit) on
manufacturer or exporter or suspension of registration of dealer, for dealing
with evasion of duty or misuse of CENVAT credit;]
(xiv) authorise and regulate the inspection of factories and provide for the
taking of samples, and for the making of tests, of any substance produced
therein, and for the inspection or search of any place or conveyance used for
the production, stor­age, sale or transport of salt, and so far as such
inspection or search is essential for the proper levy and collection of the
duties imposed by this Act, of any other excisable goods;
(xv) authorise and regulate the composition of offences against, or
liabilities incurred under this Act or the rules made there­under;
(xvi) provide for the grant of a rebate of the duty paid on goods which are
exported out of India or shipped for consumption on a voyage to any port
outside India 275 [including interest thereon]; 276 [***]
277 [(xvia) provide for the credit of duty paid or deemed to have been paid on
the goods used in, or in relation to, the manufac­ture of excisable goods;]
278 [(xviaa) provide for credit of service tax leviable under Chapter V of the
Finance Act, 1994 (32 of 1994), paid or payable on taxable services used in,
or in relation to, the manufacture of excisable goods;]
279 [(xvib) provide for the giving of credit of sums of money with respect to
raw materials used in the manufacture of excisable goods;]
280 [(xvic) provide for charging and payment of interest as the case may be,
on credit of duty paid or deemed to have been paid on the goods used in, or in
relation to, the manufacture of excisable goods where such credit is varied
subsequently;]
(xvii) exempt any goods from the whole or any part of the duty imposed by this
Act;
281 [(xviia) provide incentives for increased production or manufac­ture of
any goods by way of remission of, or any concession with respect to, duty
payable under this Act;]
(xviii) define an area no point in which shall be more than one hundred yards
from the nearest point of any place in which salt is stored or sold by or on
behalf of the Central Government, or of any factory in which saltpetre is
manufactured or refined, and regulate the possession, storage and sale of salt
within such area;
(xix) define an area round any other place in which salt is manufactured, and
regulate the possession, storage and sale of salt within such area;
(xx) authorise the 282 [Central Board of Excise and Customs consti­tuted under
the Central Boards of Revenue Act, 1963 (54 of 1963)] or 283 [Commissioners of
Central Excise] appointed for the purposes of this Act to provide, by written
instructions, for supplemental matters arising out of any rule made by the
Central Government under this section;
284 [(xxi) provide for the publication, subject to such conditions as may be
specified therein, of names and other particulars of persons who have been
found guilty of contravention of any of the provisions of this Act or of any
rule made thereunder;]
285 [(xxii) provide for the charging of fees for the examination of excisable
goods intended for export out of India and for render­ing any other service by
a Central Excise Officer under this Act or the rules made thereunder.]
286 [(xxiii) specify the 287 [form and manner] in which application for refund
shall be made under section 11B;
286 [(xxiv) provide for the manner in which money is to be credited to the
Fund;]
286 [(xxv) provide for the manner in which the Fund shall be utilised for the
welfare of the consumers;]
286 [(xxvi) specify the form in which the account and records relating to the
Fund shall be maintained;]
288 [(xxvii) specify the persons who shall get themselves registered under
section 6 and the manner of their registration.]
289 [(xxviii) provide for the lapsing of credit of duty lying unutilised with
the manufacturer of specified excisable goods on an appointed date and also
for not allowing such credit to be utilised for payment of any kind of duty on
any excisable goods on and from such date.]
290 [(2A) The power to make rules conferred by clause (xvi) of sub-section (2)
shall include the power to give retrospective effect to rebate of duties on
inputs used in the export goods from a date not earlier than the changes in
the rates of duty on such inputs.]
(3) In making rules under this section, the Central Government may provide
that any person committing a breach of any rule shall, where no other penalty
is provided by this Act, be liable to a penalty not exceeding 291 [five
thousand rupees].
292 [(4) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (3), and without
prejudice to the provisions of section 9, in making rules under this section,
the Central Government may provide that if any manufacturer, producer or
licensee of a warehouse—
(a) removes any excisable goods in contravention of the provi­sions of any
such rule, or
(b) does not account for all such goods manufactured, produced or stored by
him, or
(c) engages in the manufacture, production or storage of such goods without
having applied for the 293 [registration as] required under section 6, or
294 [(d) contravenes the provisions of any such rule with intent to evade
payment of duty, then all such goods shall be liable to confiscation and the
manufacturer, producer or licensee shall be liable to a penalty not exceeding
the duty leviable on such goods or 295 [two thousand rupees], whichever is
greater.]
This Act has been applied to— “(1) The Central Government may make rules,
including rules conferring the power to issue notifications with retrospective
effect under those rules, to carry into effect the purposes of this Act.”.
Note. —Amendment made to sub-section (1) shall be in addition to, and not in
derogation of, the provisions of section 4. Vide The Central Excise Laws
(Amendment and Validation) Ordinance, 2005 (1 of 2005), sec. 2 (w.e.f.
25-1-2005).
296 [(5) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (3), the Central
Government may make rules to provide for the imposition upon any person who
acquires possession of, or is in any way concerned in transporting, removing,
depositing, keeping, con­cealing, selling or purchasing, or in any other
manner deals with, any excisable goods which he knows or has reason to believe
are liable to confiscation under this Act or the rules made thereunder, a
penalty 297 [not exceeding the duty leviable on such goods or 298 [two
thousand rupees], whichever is greater].]
(1) all the partially excluded areas in the State of Orissa by Orissa
Government Notification No. 1226-II-C-13/44-Com., dated 21st March, 1944;
(2) Darjeeling District with effect from 28th February, 1944, see Bengal
Government Notification No. 342-R, dated 22nd March, 1944;
(3) excluded areas in the State of Madras (with modifications), see Madras
Government Notification No. 37, Fort St. George Ga­zette, Pt. I, p. 281, dated
11th April, 1944;
(4) partially excluded areas in the State of Madras with effect from 28th
February, 1944, see Madras Government Notification No. 745-Public-Political,
dated 4th March, 1944. This Act has been extended to Goa, Daman and Diu by
Reg. 12 of 1962, sec. 3 and Sch.; to Dadra and Nagar Haveli by Reg. 6 of 1963,
sec. 2 and Sch. I and to the whole of the Union territory of Lak­shadweep by
Reg. 8 of 1965, sec. 3 and Sch.
The Central Excise Act, 1944
1[37A. Delegation of powers.—The Central Government may, by notification in
the Official Gazette, direct that subject to such conditions, if any, as may
be specified in the notification—
(a) any power exercisable by the Board under this Act may be exercisable also
by 2[a 3[Chief Commissioner of Central Ex­cise] or a 4[Commissioner of Central
Excise]] empowered in this behalf by the Central Government;
(b) any power exercisable by a 4[Commissioner of Central Excise] under this
Act may be exercisable also by a 5[Joint Commissioner of Central Excise] or an
6[Assistant Commissioner of Central Excise or Deputy Commissioner of Central
Excise] empowered in this behalf by the Central Government; and
(c) any power exercisable by a 7[Joint Commissioner of Central Excise] under
this Act may be exercisable also by an 6[Assistant Commissioner of Central
Excise] empowered in this behalf by the Central Govern­ment; and
(d) any power exercisable by an 6[Assistant Commissioner of Central Excise or
Deputy Commissioner of Central Excise] under this Act may be exercisable also
by a gazetted officer of Central Excise empowered in this behalf by the
Board.]
The Central Excise Act, 1944
1[37B. Instructions to Central Excise Officers.—The Central Board of Excise
and Customs constituted under the Central Boards of Revenue Act, 1963 (54 of
1963), may, if it considers it neces­sary or expedient so to do for the
purpose of uniformity in the classification of excisable goods or with respect
to levy of duties of excise on such goods, issue such orders, instructions and
directions to the Central Excise Officers as it may deem fit, and such
officers and all other persons employed in the execution of this Act shall
observe and follow such orders, instructions and directions of the said Board:
Provided that no such orders, instructions or directions shall be issued—
(a) so as to require any Central Excise Officer to make a partic­ular
assessment or to dispose of a particular case in a particu­lar manner; or
(b) so as to interfere with the discretion of the 2[Commissioner of Central
Excise (Appeals)] in the exercise of his appellate functions.
The Central Excise Act, 1944
37C. Service of decisions, orders, summons, etc.—
(1) Any deci­sion or order passed or any summons or notice issued under this
Act or the rules made thereunder, shall be served,—
(a) by tendering the decision, order, summons or notice, or send­ing it by
registered post with acknowledgement due, to the person for whom it is
intended or his authorised agent, if any;
(b) if the decision, order, summons or notice cannot be served in the manner
provided in clause (a), by affixing a copy thereof, to some conspicuous part
of the factory or warehouse or other place of business or usual place of
residence of the person for whom such decision, order, summons or notice, as
the case may be, is intended;
(c) if the decision, order, summons or notice cannot be served in the manner
provided in clauses (a) and (b), by affixing a copy thereof on the notice
board of the officer or authority who or which passed such decision or order
or issued such summons or notice.
(2) Every decision or order passed or any summons or notice issued under this
Act or the rules made thereunder, shall be deemed to have been served on the
date on which the decision, order, summons or notice is tendered or delivered
by post or a copy thereof is affixed in the manner provided in sub-section
(1).]
The Central Excise Act, 1944
1[37D. Rounding off of duty, etc.—The amount of duty, interest, penalty, fine
or any other sum payable, and the amount of refund or any other sum due under
the provisions of this Act shall be rounded off to the nearest rupee and, for
this purpose, where such amount contains a part of a rupee consisting of paise
then, if such part is fifty paise or more, it shall be increased to one rupee
and if such part is less than fifty paise it shall be ignored.]
The Central Excise Act, 1944
1[37E. Publication of information respecting persons in certain cases.—
(1) If the Central Government is of opinion that it is necessary or expedient
in the public interest to publish the names of any person and any other
particulars relating to any proceedings or prosecutions under this Act in
respect of such person, it may cause to be published such names and
particulars in such manner as it thinks fit.
(2) No publication under this section shall be made in relation to any penalty
imposed under this Act until the time for presenting an appeal to the
Commissioner (Appeals) under section 35 or the Appellate Tribunal under
section 35B, as the case may be, has expired without an appeal having been
presented or the appeal, if presented, has been disposed of. Explanation.—In
the case of a firm, company or other association of persons, the names of the
partners of the firm, directors, managing agents, secretaries and treasurers
or managers of the company, or the members of the association, as the case may
be, may also be published if, in the opinion of the Central Government,
circumstances of the case justify it.]
The Central Excise Act, 1944
1[38. Publication of rules and notifications and laying of rules before
Parliament.—
(1) All rules made and notifications issued under this Act shall be published
in the Official Gazette. 2[(2) Every rule made under the Act, every
notification issued under 3[section 3A, section 4A,] sub-section (1) of
section 5A, and section 11C and every order made under sub-section (2) of
section 5A, other than an order relating to goods of strategic, secret,
individual or personal nature, shall be laid, as soon as may be after it is
made or issued, before each House of Parliament, while it is in session, for a
total period of thirty days which may be comprised in one session, or in two
or more successive sessions, and if, before the expiry of the session
immediately following the session or the successive sessions aforesaid, both
Houses agree in making any modification in the rule or notification or order,
or both Houses agree that the rule should not be made or notification or order
should not be issued or made, the rule or notification or order shall
thereafter have effect only in such modified form or be of no effect, as the
case may be; so, however, that any such modification or annulment shall be
without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done under that rule
or notifi­cation or order.]]
The Central Excise Act, 1944
1[38A. Effect of amendments, etc., of rules, notifications or orders.—Where
any rule, notification or order made or issued under this Act or any
notification or order issued under such rule, is amended, repealed, superseded
or rescinded, then, unless a different intention appears, such amendment,
repeal, supersession or rescinding shall not—
(a) revive anything not in force or existing at the time at which the
amendment, repeal, supersession or rescinding takes effect; or
(b) affect the previous operation of any rule, notification or order so
amended, repealed, superseded or rescinded or anything duly done or suffered
thereunder; or
(c) affect any right, privilege, obligation or liability acquired, accrued or
incurred under any rule, notification or order so amended, repealed,
superseded or rescinded; or
(d) affect any penalty forfeiture or punishment incurred in respect of any
offence committed under on in volation of any rule, notification or order so
amended, repealed, superseded or rescinded; or
(e) affect any investigation, legal proceeding or remedy in respect of any
such right, privilege, obligation, liability, penalty, forfeiture or
punishment as aforesaid. and any such investigation, legal proceeding or
remedy may be instituted, continued or enforced and any such penalty,
forfeiture or punishment may be imposed as if the rule, notification or order,
as the case may be, had not been amended, repealed, superseded or rescinded.]
The Central Excise Act, 1944
39. Repeal of enactments.—[Rep. by the Repealing and Amending Act, 1947 (2 of 1948), sec. 2 and Sch.]
The Central Excise Act, 1944
1[40. Protection of action taken under the Act.—
(1) No suit, prose­cution or other legal proceeding shall lie against the
Central Government or any officer of the Central Government or a State
Government for anything which is done, or intended to be done, in good faith,
in pursuance of this Act or any rule made thereun­der.
(2) No proceeding, other than a suit, shall be commenced against the Central
Government or any officer of the Central Government or a State Government for
anything done or purported to have been done in pursuance of this Act or any
rule made thereunder, with­out giving the Central Government or such officer a
month’s previous notice in writing of the intended proceeding and of the cause
thereof or after the expiration of three months from the accrual of such
cause.]
The Central Excise Act, 1944 The First Schedule.—[Rep. by the Central Excise
Tariff Act, 1985 (5 of 1986),sec. 4 (w.e.f. 28-2-1986)]. The Central Excise
Act, 1944 THE SECOND SCHEDULE (See sections 6 and 8) PART A Excisable goods
specified for the purposes of section 6— 1. Tobacco 2. Betel-nuts When
supplied by a curor to a wholesale dealer, 3. Coffee Whether directly or
through a broker or commission agent. PART B Excisable goods specified for the
purposes of section 8— 1. Tobacco.
1\. Subs. by Act 27 of 1999, sec. 121, for certain words (w.e.f. 11-5-1999).
2\. Subs. by Act 10 of 2000, sec. 92, for “a duty of excise” (w.e.f.
12-5-2000).
3\. Ins. by Act 20 of 2002, sec. 133 (w.e.f. 11-5-2002).
4\. Ins. by Act 14 of 1982, sec. 46 (w.e.f. 11-5-1982).
5\. Subs. by Act 21 of 1984, sec. 45, for certain words (w.e.f. 11-5-1984).
6\. Clause (i) omitted by Act 22 of 2007, sec. 115(i) (w.e.f. 11-5-2007).
Earlier clause (i) was amended by Act 14 of 2001, sec. 120 (w.e.f. 11-5-2001)
and by Act 20 of 2002, sec. 133(ii)(a) (w.e.f. 11-5-2002). Clause (i), before
omission by Act 22 of 2007, stood as under:
7\. Subs. by Act 14 of 2001, sec. 120, for “allowed to be sold in India”
(w.e.f. 11-5-2001).
8\. Subs. by Act 10 of 2000, sec. 92, for “under section 12 of the Customs
Act, (52 of 1962)” (w.r.e.f. 11-5-1982).
9\. Subs. by Act 10 of 2000, sec. 92, for Explanation 1 (w.r.e.f. 11-5-1982).
10\. Subs. by Act 21 of 1984, sec. 45, for Explanation 2 (w.e.f. 11-5-1984).
11\. Clause (i) omitted by Act 22 of 2007, sec. 115(ii)(a) (w.e.f. 11-5-2007).
Earlier clause (i) was substituted by Act 20 of 2002, sec. 133(ii)(b) (w.e.f.
11-5-2002). Clause (i), before omission by Act 22 of 2007, stood as under:
12\. Subs. by Act 22 of 2007, sec. 115(ii)(b), for clause (iii) (w.e.f.
11-5-2007). Earlier clause (iii) was inserted by Act 14 of 2001, sec. 120
(w.e.f. 11-5-2001). Clause (iii), before substitution by Act 22 of 2007, stood
as under:
13\. Subs. by Act 30 of 1963, sec. 3, for sub-section (1A) (w.e.f. 1-10-1963).
Earlier sub-section (1A) was inserted by Act 45 of 1951, sec. 6 (w.e.f.
27-8-1951).
14\. Subs. by Act 27 of 1999, sec. 119, for “the Schedule” (w.e.f. 11-5-1999).
Earlier they were substituted by Act 5 of 1986, sec. 4, for “the First
Schedule” (w.e.f. 28-2-1986).
15\. Subs. by Act 25 of 1978, sec. 19, for sub-section (3) (w.e.f. 1-7-1978).
16\. Ins. by the Finance Act, 2008, sec. 79. Earlier section 3A was inserted
by Act 81 of 1956. sec. 2 (w.e.f. 22-12-1956) and was omitted by Act 58 of
1960, sec. 2 and Sch. I (w.e.f. 26-12-1960) and was again inserted by Act 26
of 1997, sec. 81 (w.e.f. 14-5-1997) and was amended by Act 10 of 2000, sec. 93
(w.r.e.f. 1-4-2000) and was again omitted by Act 14 of 2001, sec. 121 (w.e.f.
11-5-2001).
17\. Subs. by Act 10 of 2000, sec. 94, for section 4 (w.e.f. 1-4-2000).
Earlier section 4 was substituted by Act 22 of 1973, sec. 2 (w.e.f.
1-10-1975).
18\. Ins. by Act 32 of 2003, sec. 136 (w.e.f. 14-5-2003).
19\. Subs. by Act 32 of 2003, sec. 136, for "payment of duty," (w.e.f.
14-5-2003).
20\. Ins. by Act 32 of 2003, sec. 136 (w.e.f. 14-5-2003).
21\. Ins. by Act 26 of 1997, sec. 82 (w.e.f. 14-5-1997).
22\. Subs. by Act 32 of 2003, sec. 137, for sub-section (4) (w.e.f.
14-5-2003). Earlier sub-section (4) was inserted by Act 27 of 1999, sec. 122
(w.e.f. 11-5-1999).
23\. Ins. by Act 25 of 1978, sec. 20 (w.e.f. 1-7-1978). Earlier section 5 was
omitted by Act 41 of 1954, sec. 2 and Sch. (w.e.f. 8-10-1954).
24\. Ins. by Act 29 of 1988, sec. 9 (w.e.f. 19-5-1988).
25\. Subs. by Act 14 of 2001, sec. 122, for “free trade zone” (w.e.f.
11-5-2001).
26\. The words "or a special economic zone" shall stand omitted with effect
from such date as may be appointed by the Central Government, vide Act 20 of
2002, sec. 134.
27\. Subs. by Act 14 of 2001, sec. 122, for “allowed to be sold in India”
(w.e.f. 11-5-2001).
28\. Ins. by Act 18 of 2005, sec. 75 (w.e.f. 13-5-2005).
29\. Subs. by Act 32 of 2003, sec. 138, for sub-section (2) (w.e.f.
14-5-2003). Earlier sub-section (2) was substituted by Act 27 of 1999, sec.
123 (w.e.f. 11-5-1999).
30\. Ins. by Act 20 of 2002, sec. 134.
31\. Ins. by Act 21 of 1998, sec. 106 (w.e.f. 1-8-1998).
32\. Ins. by Act 20 of 2002, sec. 134 (w.e.f. 11-5-2002).
33\. Ins. by the Finance Act, 2007.
34\. Subs. by Act 18 of 1992, sec. 113 (w.e.f. 14-5-1992).
35\. Subs. by Act 27 of 1999, sec. 119, for “the Schedule” (w.e.f. 11-5-1999).
36\. Subs. by Act 18 of 1956, sec. 34, for certain words (w.e.f. 27-4-1956).
37\. Section 9 re-numbered as sub-section (1) of that section by Act 36 of
1973, sec. 20 (w.e.f. 1-9-1973).
38\. Subs. by Act 18 of 1992, sec. 113, for clause (a) (w.e.f. 14-5-1992).
39\. Ins. by Act 36 of 1973, sec. 20 (w.e.f. 1-9-1973).
40\. Ins. by Act 21 of 1998, sec. 107 (w.e.f. 1-8-1998).
41\. Subs. by Act 36 of 1973, sec. 20, for certain words (w.e.f. 1-9-1973).
42\. Ins. by Act 36 of 1973, sec. 20 (w.e.f. 1-9-1973).
43\. See Gazette of India, 1943, Pt. V, p. 243 for Statement of Objects and
Reasons and see Gazette of India, 1944, Pt. V, p.12 for Report of the Select
Committee.
44\. Ins. by Act 36 of 1973, sec. 21 (w.e.f. 1-9-1973).
45\. Section 9A renumbered as sub-section (1) thereof by Act 23 of 2004, sec.
79 (w.e.f. 10-9-2004).
46\. See now section 9 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974).
47\. Ins. by Act 23 of 2004, sec. 79 (w.e.f. 10-9-2004).
48\. Subs. by Act 33 of 2009, sec. 104(i) (w.e.f. 19-8-2009).
49\. Ins. by Act 33 of 2009, sec. 104(ii) (w.e.f. 19-8-2009).
50\. Ins. by Act 79 of 1985, sec. 2 (w.e.f. 27-12-1985).
51\. Ins. by Act 36 of 1973, sec. 21 (w.e.f. 1-9-1973).
52\. Ins. by Act 36 of 1973, sec. 21 (w.e.f. 1-9-1973).
53\. Ins. by Act 36 of 1973, sec. 21 (w.e.f. 1-9-1973).
54\. Ins. by Act 36 of 1973, sec. 21 (w.e.f. 1-9-1973).
55\. See now the relevant provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973
(2 of 1974).
56\. Ins. by Act 10 of 2000, sec. 96 (w.e.f. 12-5-2000).
57\. Subs. by Act 54 of 1963, sec. 5, for “Central Board of Reve­nue” (w.e.f.
1-1-1964).
58\. Ins. by Act 23 of 2004, sec. 80 (w.e.f. 10-9-2004).
59\. See Gazette of India, 1943, Pt. V, p. 243 for Statement of Objects and
Reasons and see Gazette of India, 1944, Pt. V, p.12 for Report of the Select
Committee.
60\. Ins. by Act 25 of 1978, sec. 21 (w.e.f. 1-8-1978).
61\. Subs. by Act 10 of 2000, sec. 97(a), for “erroneously refunded” (w.r.e.f.
17-11-1980).
62\. Subs. by Act 10 of 2000, sec. 97(b), for “six-months” (w.e.f. 12-5-2000).
63\. Subs. by Act 79 of 1985, sec. 3(a), for “as if” (w.e.f. 27-12-1985).
64\. The words ‘for the words “Central Excise Officer”, the words “Collector
of Central Excise”, and' omitted by Act 18 of 1992, sec. 113(4)(a) (w.e.f.
14-5-1992).
65\. Second and third provisos omitted by Act 32 of 2003, sec. 139(a) (w.e.f.
14-5-2003). Earlier second and third provisos were inserted by Act 10 of 2000,
sec. 95(c) (w.e.f. 12-5-2000).
66\. Ins. by Act 29 of 2006, sec. 35 (w.e.f. 13-7-2006).
67\. Subs. by Act 79 of 1985, sec. 3(b), for “The Assistant Collector of
Central Excise” (w.e.f. 27-12-1985).
68\. Subs. by Act 18 of 1992, sec. 113(4)(b), for “Assistant Collector of
Central Excise or, as the case may be, the Collector of Central Excise”
(w.e.f. 14-5-1992).
69\. Ins. by Act 29 of 2006, sec. 35 (w.e.f. 13-7-2006).
70\. Ins. by Act 14 of 2001, sec. 123 (w.e.f. 11-5-2001).
71\. Ins. by Act 32 of 2003, sec. 139(b) (w.e.f. 14-5-2003).
72\. Ins. by the Finance Act, 2010, sec. 64.
73\. Ins. by Act 14 of 2001, sec. 123 (w.e.f. 11-5-2001).
74\. Subs. by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 72, for sub-clause (a) (w.e.f. 26-5-1995).
75\. Ins. by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 73 (w.e.f. 26-5-1995).
76\. Section 11AA renumbered as sub-section (1) thereof by Act 14 of 2001,
sec. 124 (w.e.f. 11-5-2001).
77\. Subs. by Act 33 of 1996, sec. 75, for “Where a person” (w.e.f.
28-9-1996).
78\. Subs. by Act 10 of 2000, sec. 98, for certain words (w.e.f. 12-5-2000).
79\. Subs. by Act 20 of 2002, sec. 135, for “eighteen per cent.” (w.e.f.
11-5-2002).
80\. Ins. by Act 49 of 2005, sec. 30 and Sch., Pt. VII-2 (w.e.f. 28-12-2005).
81\. Ins. by Act 14 of 2001, sec. 124 (w.e.f. 11-5-2001).
82\. Ins. by Act 33 of 1996, sec. 76 (w.e.f. 28-9-1996).
83\. Subs. by Act 14 of 2001, sec. 125, for sub-section (1) (w.e.f.
11-5-2001).
84\. Subs. by Act 20 of 2002, sec. 136, for “eighteen per cent.” (w.e.f.
11-5-2002).
85\. Subs. by Act 14 of 2001, sec. 125, for sub-section (2) (w.e.f.
11-5-2001).
86\. Ins. by Act 49 of 2005, sec. 30 and Sch., Pt. VII-3 (w.e.f. 28-12-2005).
87\. Ins. by Act 33 of 1996, sec. 76 (w.e.f. 28-9-1996).
88\. Subs. by Act 10 of 2000, sec. 100, for the proviso (w.e.f. 12-5-2000).
89\. Ins. by Act 25 of 1978, sec. 21 (w.e.f. 17-11-1980).
90\. Subs. by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 70, for “Assistant Collector of Central
Excise” (w.e.f. 26-5-1995) and again subs. by Act 27 of 1999, sec. 119, for
“Assistant Commissioner of Central Excise” (w.e.f. 11-5-1999).
91\. Subs. by Act 10 of 2000, sec. 101, for “six months” (w.e.f. 12-5-2000).
92\. Ins. by Act 44 of 1980, sec. 49, for “from the date of pay­ment of duty”
(w.e.f. 21-8-1980).
93\. Ins. by Act 40 of 1991, sec. 3 (w.e.f. 20-9-1991).
94\. Subs. by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 74, for “in such form” (w.e.f. 26-5-1995).
95\. Subs. by Act 40 of 1991, sec. 3, for “Provided that” (w.e.f. 20-9-1991).
96\. Subs. by Act 10 of 2000, sec. 101, for “six months” (w.e.f. 12-5-2000).
97\. Explanation omitted by Act 44 of 1980, sec 49 (w.e.f. 21-8-1980).
98\. Subs. by Act 40 of 1991, sec. 3, for sub-sections (2) to (5) (w.e.f.
20-9-1991).
99\. Subs. by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 70, for “Assistant Collector of Central
Excise” (w.e.f. 26-5-1995) and again subs. by Act 27 of 1999, sec. 119, for
“Assistant Commissioner of Central Excise” (w.e.f. 11-5-1999).
100\. Subs. by Act 22 of 1995, 70, for “Collector of Central Excise” (w.e.f.
26-5-1995).
101\. Subs. by Act 44 of 1980, sec. 49, for Explanation (w.e.f. 21-8-1980).
102\. Subs. by Act 40 of 1991, sec. 3, for sub-clause (e) (w.e.f. 20-9-1991).
103\. Ins by Act 33 of 1996, sec. 77 (w.e.f. 28-9-1996).
104\. Ins. by Act 21 of 1998, sec. 108 (w.e.f. 1-8-1998).
105\. Ins. by Act 22 of 2007, sec. 117 (w.e.f. 11-5-2007).
106\. Ins. by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 75 (w.e.f. 26-5-1995).
107\. Subs. by Act 14 of 2001, sec. 126, for “not below ten per cent.” (w.e.f.
11-5-2001).
108\. Subs. by Act 10 of 2000, sec. 102, for “by the Board” (w.e.f. 12-5-2000)
109\. Ins. by Act 49 of 2005, sec. 30 and Sch., Pt. VII-4 (w.e.f. 28-12-2005).
110\. Ins. by Act 25 of 1978, sec. 21 (w.e.f. 1-7-1978).
111\. Section 11C renumbered as sub-section (1) thereof by Act 29 of 1988,
sec. 10 (w.e.f. 1-7-1988).
112\. Subs. by Act 40 of 1991, sec. 4, for sub-section (2) (w.e.f. 20-9-1991).
Earlier sub-section (2) was inserted by Act 29 of 1988, sec. 10 (w.e.f.
1-7-1988).
113\. Subs. by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 70, for “Assistant Collector of Central
Excise” (w.e.f. 26-5-1995).
114\. Ins. by Act 40 of 1991, sec. 5 (w.e.f. 20-9-1991).
115\. Subs. by Act 10 of 2000, sec. 103, for certain words (w.r.e.f.
20-9-1991).
116\. Subs. by Act 10 of 2000, sec. 103, for sub-section (2) (w.r.e.f.
20-9-1991).
117\. Ins. by Act 32 of 2003, sec. 140 (w.e.f. 14-5-2003).
118\. Ins. by Act 29 of 2006, sec. 36 (w.e.f. 13-7-2006).
119\. Subs. by Act 33 of 1996, sec. 78, for “Sea Customs Act, 1878 (8 of
1878)” (w.e.f. 28-9-1996).
120\. Ins. by Act 21 of 2006, sec. 64 (w.e.f. 18-4-2006).
121\. Section 12A ins. by Act 79 of 1985, sec. 4 (w.e.f. 27-12-1985).
122\. Section 12A renumbered as section 12E by Act 40 of 1991, sec. 7 (w.e.f.
20-9-1991).
123\. Subs. by Act 32 of 2003, sec. 141, for section 13 (w.e.f. 14-5-2003).
124\. See Gazette of India, 1943, Pt. V, p. 243 for Statement of Objects and
Reasons and see Gazette of India, 1944, Pt. V, p.12 for Report of the Select
Committee.
125\. Ins. by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 76 (w.e.f. 26-5-1995).
126\. Subs. by Act 33 of 2009, sec. 105(i), for “cost accountant” (w.e.f.
19-8-2009).
127\. Sub-section (4) omitted by Act 10 of 2000, sec. 104 (w.e.f. 12-5-2000).
128\. Explanation renumbered as Explanation 1 thereof by Act 33 of 2009, sec.
105(ii) (w.e.f. 19-8-2009).
129\. See Gazette of India, 1943, Pt. V, p. 243 for Statement of Objects and
Reasons and see Gazette of India, 1944, Pt. V, p.12 for Report of the Select
Committee.
130\. Ins. by Act 26 of 1997, sec. 83 (w.e.f. 14-5-1997).
131\. Subs. by Act 33 of 2009, sec. 106(i), for “cost accountant” (w.e.f.
19-8-2009).
132\. Sub-section (4) omitted by Act 10 of 2000, sec. 105 (w.e.f. 12-5-2000).
133\. Explanation renumbered as Explanation 1 thereof by Act 33 of 2009, sec.
106(ii) (w.e.f. 19-8-2009).
134\. Ins. by Act 33 of 2009, sec. 106(ii) (w.e.f. 19-8-2009).
135\. See now the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 ( 2 of 1974).
136\. See now the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 ( 2 of 1974).
137\. Subs. by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 70, for “Collector of Central Excise”
(w.e.f. 26-5-1995).
138\. See Gazette of India, 1943, Pt. V, p. 243 for Statement of Objects and
Reasons and see Gazette of India, 1944, Pt. V, p.12 for Report of the Select
Committee.
139\. section 23A ins. by Act 27 of 1999, sec. 124 (w.e.f. 11-5-1999).
140\. Subs. by Act 18 of 2005, sec. 76, for clause (c) (w.e.f. 13-5-2005).
Earlier clause (c) was substituted by Act 32 of 2003, sec. 142(a) (w.e.f.
14-5-2003).
141\. Ins. by Act 22 of 2007, sec. 118 (w.e.f. 11-5-2007).
142\. Subs. by Act 33 of 2009, sec. 107, for clause (e) (w.e.f. 19-8-2009).
Earlier clause (e) was amended by Act 18 of 2005, sec. 76 (w.e.f. 13-5-2005).
Clause (e), before substitution by Act 33 of 2009, stood as under:
143\. Subs. by Act 32 of 2003, sec. 142(b), for clause (f) (w.e.f. 14-5-2003).
144\. Ins. by Act 32 of 2003, sec. 143 (w.e.f. 14-5-2003).
145\. Ins. by Act 21 of 2006, sec. 65 (w.e.f. 18-4-2006).
146\. The words "except in the case of a resident applicant" omitted by Act 20
of 2002, sec. 138 (w.e.f. 11-5-2002).
147\. Chapter V (containing sections 31, 32, 32A to 32P) ins. by Act 21 of
1998, sec. 110
148\. Subs. by Act 22 of 2007, sec. 124, for “(7)” (w.e.f. 1-6-2007).
149\. Subs. by Act 22 of 2007, sec. 124, for “(6)” (w.e.f. 1-6-2007).
150\. See Gazette of India, 1943, Pt. V, p. 243 for Statement of Objects and
Reasons and see Gazette of India, 1944, Pt. V, p.12 for Report of the Select
Committee.
151\. section 32E ins. by Act 21 of 1998, sec. 110 (w.e.f. 1-8-1998). Earlier
Chapter V (containing sections 31 to 32) was omitted by Act 33 of 1996, sec.
79 (w.e.f. 28-9-1996).
152\. Subs. by Act 22 of 2007, sec. 121, for sub-section (1) (w.e.f.
1-6-2007). Earlier sub-section (1) was amended by Act 10 of 2000, sec. 106
(w.e.f. 12-5-2000). Sub-section (1), before substitution by Act 22 of 2007,
stood as under:
153\. Subs. by the Finance Act, 2010, sec. 65, for “but excluding the goods in
respect of which no proper record has been maintained by the assessee in his
daily stock register”.
154\. See Gazette of India, 1943, Pt. V, p. 243 for Statement of Objects and
Reasons and see Gazette of India, 1944, Pt. V, p.12 for Report of the Select
Committee.
155\. section 32F ins. by Act 21 of 1998, sec. 110 (w.e.f. 1-8-1998). Earlier
Chapter V (containing sections 31 to 32) was omitted by Act 33 of 1996, sec.
79 (w.e.f. 28-9-1996).
156\. Subs. by Act 22 of 2007, sec. 122, for section 32F (w.e.f. 1-6-2007).
Section 32F, before substitution, stood as under:
157\. Ins. by the Finance Act, 2010, sec. 66.
158\. Chapter V (containing sections 31, 32, 32A to 32P) ins. by Act 21 of
1998, sec. 110
159\. Ins. by Act 22 of 2007, sec. 123 (w.e.f. 1-6-2007).
160\. Chapter V (containing sections 31, 32, 32A to 32P) ins. by Act 21 of
1998, sec. 110
161\. Subs. by Act 22 of 2007, sec. 125(i)(a), for “or under the Indian Penal
Code (45 of 1860) or under any other Central Act for the time being in force
and also either wholly or in part from the imposition of any penalty, fine and
interest” (w.e.f. 1-6-2007).
162\. Ins. by Act 22 of 2007, sec. 125(i)(b) (w.e.f. 1-6-2007).
163\. Subs. by Act 22 of 2007, sec. 125(ii), for “sub-section (7) of section
32F within the time specified in such order or within such further time as may
be allowed by the Settlement Commission” (w.e.f. 1-6-2007).
164\. Chapter V (containing sections 31, 32, 32A to 32P) ins. by Act 21 of
1998, sec. 110
165\. Subs. by Act 22 of 2007, sec. 126, for “(7)” (w.e.f. 1-6-2007).
166\. Chapter V (containing sections 31, 32, 32A to 32P) ins. by Act 21 of
1998, sec. 110
167\. Subs. by Act 22 of 2007, sec. 127, for “(7)” (w.e.f. 1-6-2007).
168\. See Gazette of India, 1943, Pt. V, p. 243 for Statement of Objects and
Reasons and see Gazette of India, 1944, Pt. V, p.12 for Report of the Select
Committee.
169\. section 32-O ins. by Act 21 of 1998, sec. 110 (w.e.f. 1-8-1998). Earlier
Chapter V (containing sections 31 to 32) was omitted by Act 33 of 1996, sec.
79 (w.e.f. 28-9-1996).
170\. Section 32-O renumbered as sub-section (1) thereof by Act 22 of 2007,
sec. 128 (w.e.f. 11-5-2007).
171\. Subs. by Act 22 of 2007, sec. 128(i), for “Where” (w.e.f. 11-5-2007).
172\. The words “before the 1st day of June, 2007” omitted by the Finance Act,
2010, sec. 67(a)(i).
173\. Ins. by the Finance Act, 2010, sec. 67(a)(ii).
174\. Ins. by the Finance Act, 2010, sec. 67(a)(iii).
175\. Sub-section (2) omitted by the Finance Act, 2010, sec. 67(b). Earlier
sub-section (2) was inserted by Act 22 of 2007, sec. 128(ii) (w.e.f.
1-6-2007). Sub-section (2), before omission by the Finance Act, 2010, stood as
under:
176\. Chapter V (containing sections 31, 32, 32A to 32P) ins. by Act 21 of
1998, sec. 110
177\. Section 32PA omitted by Act 22 of 2007, sec. 129 (w.e.f. 1-6-2007).
Earlier section 32PA was inserted by Act 10 of 2000, sec. 107 (w.e.f.
12-5-2000) and was amended by Act 18 of 2005, sec. 77 (w.e.f. 13-5-2005).
Section 32PA, before omission by Act 22 of 2007, stood as under:
178\. Subs. by Act 27 of 1999, sec. 125, for “Where by the rules made under
this Act” (w.e.f. 11-5-1999).
179\. Subs. by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 70, for “Collector of Central Excise”
(w.e.f. 26-5-1995).
180\. Subs. by Act 27 of 1999, sec. 119, for “Assistant Commissioner of
Central Excise” (w.e.f. 11-5-1999). Earlier the words “Assistant Commissioner
of Central Excise” were substituted for “Assistant Collector of Central
Excise” by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 70 (w.e.f. 26-5-1995).
181\. Subs. by Act 54 of 1963, sec. 5, for “Central Board of Revenue” (w.e.f.
1-1-1964).
182\. Ins. by Act 23 of 2004, sec. 81 (w.e.f. 10-9-2004).
183\. Ins. by Act 36 of 1973, sec. 22 (w.e.f. 1-9-1973).
184\. Subs. by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 70, for “Collector (Appeals)” (w.e.f.
26-5-1995).
185\. Subs. by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 70 “Collector of Central Excise” (w.e.f.
26-5-1995)..
186\. Subs by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 70, for “Collector of Central Excise
(Appeal)” (w.e.f. 26-5-1995).
187\. Subs. by Act 14 of 2001, sec. 127, for "within three months" (w.e.f.
11-5-2001).
188\. Subs. by Act 14 of 2001, sec. 127, for the proviso (w.e.f. 11-5-2001).
189\. Ins. by Act 23 of 2004, sec. 82 (w.e.f. 10-9-2004).
190\. Subs. by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 70, for “Collector (Appeals)” (w.e.f.
26-5-1995).
191\. Subs. by Act 14 of 2001, sec. 128, for certain words (w.e.f. 11-5-2001).
192\. Ins. by Act 14 of 2001, sec. 128 (w.e.f. 11-5-2001).
193\. Subs. by Act 18 of 2005, sec. 78, for “and of the Commissioner of
Central Excise” (w.e.f. 13-5-2005).
194\. Subs. by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 70, for “Collector of Central Excise”
(w.e.f. 26-5-1995).
195\. Subs. by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 70, for “Collector (Appeals)” (w.e.f.
26-5-1995).
196\. Subs. by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 70, for “Appellate Collector of Central
Excise” (w.e.f. 26-5-1995).
197\. Subs. by Act 18 of 2005, sec. 78, for “and of the Commissioner of
Central Excise” (w.e.f. 13-5-2005).
198\. Subs. by Act 21 of 1984, sec. 47, for “Provided that” (w.e.f.
11-5-1984).
199\. Ins. by Act 21 of 1998, sec. 109 (w.e.f. 1-8-1998).
200\. Subs. by Act 38 of 1993, sec. 45, for “ten thousand rupees” (w.e.f.
13-5-1993).
201\. Ins. by Act 21 of 1984, sec. 47 (w.e.f. 11-5-1984).
202\. Ins. by Act 18 of 2005, sec. 79 (w.e.f. 13-5-2005).
203\. Sub-section (2) shall stand subs. by Act 62 of 1986, sec. 34 as
follows:—
204\. Subs. by Act 18 of 2005, sec. 79, for “The Commissioner of Central
Excise may, if he is” (w.e.f. 13-5-2005).
205\. Subs. by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 70, for “Appellate Collector of Central
Excise” (w.e.f. 26-5-1995).
206\. Subs. by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 70, for “Collector (Appeals)” (w.e.f.
26-5-1995).
207\. Subs. by Act 18 of 2005, sec. 79, for “on his behalf” (w.e.f.
13-5-2005).
208\. Subs. by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 70, for “Collector of Central Excise”
(w.e.f. 26-5-1995).
209\. Subs. by Act 23 of 2004, sec. 83, for sub-section (6) (w.e.f.
10-9-2004). Sub-section (6), before substitution, stood as under:
210\. Ins. by Act 23 of 2004, sec. 84 (w.e.f. 10-9-2004).
211\. Subs. by Act 20 of 2002, sec. 140, for “four years” (w.e.f. 11-5-2002).
212\. Subs. by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 70, for “Collector of Central Excise”
(w.e.f. 26-5-1995).
213\. Ins. by Act 20 of 2002, sec. 140 (w.e.f. 11-5-2002).
214\. Subs. by Act 49 of 2005, sec. 30 and Sch., Pt. VII-5, for “Save as
provided in section 35G or section 35L” (w.e.f. 28-12-2005).
215\. Sub-section (2) omitted by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 77 (w.e.f. 26-5-1995).
216\. Subs. by Act 21 of 1984, sec. 48, for “ten thousand rupees” (w.e.f.
11-5-1984).
217\. Subs. by Act 38 of 1993, sec. 45, for “fifty thousand rupees” (w.e.f.
13-5-1993).
218\. Subs. by Act 33 of 1996, sec. 80, for “one lakh rupees” (w.e.f.
28-9-1996).
219\. Subs. by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 70, for “Collector” (w.e.f. 26-5-1995).
220\. Subs. by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 70, for “Collector of Central Excise”
(w.e.f. 26-5-1995).
221\. Ins. by Act 14 of 2001, sec. 129 (w.e.f. 11-5-2001).
222\. Ins. by Act 62 of 1986, sec. 34.
223\. Subs. by Act 18 of 2005, sec. 80, for “Board” (w.e.f. 13-5-2005).
224\. Ins. by Act 29 of 2006, sec. 37, for such authority” (w.e.f. 13-7-2006).
225\. Subs. by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 70, for “Collector (Appeals)” (w.e.f.
26-5-1995).
226\. Subs. by Act 22 of 2007, sec. 130(i), for sub-section (3) (w.e.f.
11-5-2007). Earlier sub-section (3) was substituted by Act 20 of 2002, sec.
141 (w.e.f. 11-5-2002) and was amended by Act 18 of 2005, sec. 80 (w.e.f.
13-5-2005). Sub-section (3), before substitution by Act 22 of 2007, stood as
under:
227\. Subs. by Act 22 of 2007, sec. 130(ii), for “three months” (w.e.f.
11-5-2007).
228\. Ins. by Act 29 of 1988, sec. 11 (w.e.f. 16-8-1988).
229\. Subs. by Act 27 of 1999, sec. 119, for “the Schedule” (w.e.f.
11-5-1999). tc" (e) whether the value of any goods for the purposes of
assess­ment of duty of excise shall be enhanced or reduced by the addi­tion or
reduction of the amounts in respect of such matters as are specifically
provided in this Act.]" tc "(2) The 6[Commissioner of Central Excise] may, of
his own motion, call for and examine the record of any proceeding in which an
adjudicating authority subordinate to him has passed any decision or order
under this Act for the purpose of satisfying himself as to the legality or
propriety of any such decision or order and may, by order, direct 10[such
authority or any Central Excise Officer"
230\. Ins. by Act 29 of 1988, sec. 12 (w.e.f. 16-8-1988).
231\. Subs. by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 70, for “Collector of Central Excise”
(w.e.f. 26-5-1995).
232\. Ins. by Act 21 of 1984, sec. 50 (w.e.f. 11-5-1984).
233\. Ins. by Act 27 of 1999, sec. 126 (w.e.f. 11-5-1999).
234\. Subs. by Act 27 of 1999, sec. 126, for sub-section (3) (w.e.f.
11-5-1999).
235\. Subs. by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 70, for “Collector (Appeals)” (w.e.f.
26-5-1995).
236\. Ins. by Act 14 of 2001, sec. 130 (w.e.f. 11-5-2001).
237\. Ins. by Act 22 of 2007, sec. 131 (w.e.f. 11-5-2007)
238\. Subs. by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 70, for “Collector (Appeals)” (w.e.f.
26-5-1995).
239\. See Gazette of India, 1943, Pt. V, p. 243 for Statement of Objects and
Reasons and see Gazette of India, 1944, Pt. V, p.12 for Report of the Select
Committee.
240\. section 35G, subs. by Act 44 of 1980, sec. 50 and Sch. V, Pt. II-2, for
sections 35, 35A and 36 (w.e.f. 11-10-1982). Earlier section 35A was inserted
by Act 16 of 1972, sec. 64(a) (w.e.f. 28-5-1972) and was substituted by Act 25
of 1978, sec. 23 (w.e.f. 1-7-1978) and section 35 was amended by Act 25 of
1978, sec. 22 (w.e.f. 1-7-1978) and section 36 was amended by Act 25 of 1978,
sec. 24 (w.e.f. 1-7-1978).
241\. Section 35G was earlier substituted by Act 32 of 2003, sec. 144 (w.e.f.
14-5-2003). Section 35G, before repeal, stood as under:
242\. See Gazette of India, 1943, Pt. V, p. 243 for Statement of Objects and
Reasons and see Gazette of India, 1944, Pt. V, p.12 for Report of the Select
Committee.
243\. section 35H, subs. by Act 44 of 1980, sec. 50 and Sch. V, Pt. II-2, for
sections 35, 35A and 36 (w.e.f. 11-10-1982). Earlier section 35A was inserted
by Act 16 of 1972, sec. 64(a) (w.e.f. 28-5-1972) and was substituted by Act 25
of 1978, sec. 23 (w.e.f. 1-7-1978) and section 35 was amended by Act 25 of
1978, sec. 22 (w.e.f. 1-7-1978) and section 36 was amended by Act 25 of 1978,
sec. 24 (w.e.f. 1-7-1978).
244\. Section 35H was earlier substituted by Act 27 of 1999, sec. 128 (w.e.f.
11-5-1999) and was amended by Act 32 of 2003, sec. 145 (w.e.f. 14-5-2003).
Section 35H, before repeal, stood as under:
245\. Section 35-I, before repeal, stood as under:
246\. Section 35J, before repeal, stood as under:
247\. The words “High Court or the” omitted by Act 49 of 2005, sec. 30 and
Sch., Pt. VII-7 (w.e.f. 28-12-2005).
248\. Ins. by Act 32 of 2003, sec. 146 (w.e.f. 1-7-2003).
249\. Subs. by Act 32 of 2003, sec. 146, for "reference to the High Court or
the Supreme Court." (w.e.f. 14-5-2003).
250\. The words “the High Court or” omitted by Act 49 of 2005, sec. 30 and
Sch., Pt. VII-7 (w.e.f. 28-12-2005).
251\. The words “as the case may be,” omitted by Act 49 of 2005, sec. 30 and
Sch., Pt. VII-7 (w.e.f. 28-12-2005).
252\. Subs. by Act 32 of 2003, sec. 147, for clause (a) (w.e.f. 14-5-2003).
253\. Ins. by Act 49 of 2005, sec. 30 and Sch., Pt. VII-8 (w.e.f. 28-12-2005).
254\. Ins. by Act 49 of 2005, sec. 30 and Sch., Pt. VII-9 (w.e.f. 28-12-2005).
255\. Subs. by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 70, for “Collector of Central Excise”
(w.e.f 26-5-1995).
256\. Subs. by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 70, for “Collector of Central Excise”
(w.e.f. 26-5-1995).
257\. Came into force on 11-10-1982, vide G.S.R. 592 (E), dated 11th October,
1982.
258\. Ins. by Act 36 of 1973, sec. 23 (w.e.f. 1-9-1973).
259\. Ins. by Act 27 of 1988, sec. 13 (w.e.f. 16-8-1988).
260\. See Gazette of India, 1943, Pt. V, p. 243 for Statement of Objects and
Reasons and see Gazette of India, 1944, Pt. V, p.12 for Report of the Select
Committee.
261\. For the period commencing on and from the 1st day of March, 1983 and
ending with the 28th day of February, 1987, sub-section (1) of section 37
shall stand substituted and shall be deemed to have effect as if for the said
sub-section, the following sub-section had been so substituted, namely:—
262\. Ins. by Act 22 of 1973, sec. 3 (w.e.f. 1-9-1973).
263\. Clause (i) re-lettered as clause (ib) by Act 22 of 1973, sec. 3 (w.e.f.
1-9-1973).
264\. Ins. by Act 27 of 1999, sec. 131(a) (w.e.f. 11-5-1999).
265\. Ins. by Act 25 of 1978, sec. 25 (w.e.f. 1-7-1978).
266\. Ins. by Act 23 of 2004, sec. 85(a) (w.e.f. 10-9-2004).
267\. Subs. by Act 33 of 2009, sec. 110, for “for compounding” (w.e.f.
19-8-2009).
268\. Certain words omitted by Act 41 of 1954, sec. 2 and Sch. (w.e.f.
8-10-1954).
269\. Subs. by Act 25 of 1950, sec. 11 and Sch. IV, for “the States”.
270\. Subs. by Act 18 of 1992, sec. 113(5)(i)(a), for “licensed” (w.e.f.
4-5-1992).
271\. Subs. by Act 18 of 1992, sec. 113(5)(i)(b), for “manufactured under
licence” (w.e.f. 4-5-1992).
272\. Subs. by Act 25 of 1950, sec. 11 and Sch. IV, for “the States”.
273\. Subs. by Act 18 of 1992, sec. 113(5)(i)(c), for “licences” (w.e.f.
4-5-1992).
274\. Ins. by the Finance Act, 2010, sec. 68.
275\. Ins. by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 78(a)(i) (w.e.f. 26-5-1995).
276\. Proviso omitted by Act 49 of 1957, sec. 2 (w.e.f. 20-12-1957).
277\. Ins. by Act 23 of 1986, sec. 51 (w.e.f. 13-5-1986).
278\. Ins. by Act 23 of 2004, sec. 85(b) (w.e.f. 10-9-2004).
279\. Ins. by Act 11 of 1987, sec. 94 (w.e.f. 12-5-1987).
280\. Ins. by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 78(a)(ii) (w.e.f. 26-5-1995).
281\. Ins. by Act 14 of 1982, sec. 48 (w.e.f. 11-5-1982).
282\. Subs. by Act 54 of 1963, sec. 5, for “Central Board of Reve­nue” (w.e.f.
1-1-1964).
283\. Subs. by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 70, for “Collectors of Central Excise”
(w.e.f. 26-5-1995).
284\. Ins. by Act 36 of 1973, sec. 24(i) (w.e.f. 1-9-1973).
285\. Ins. by Act 79 of 1985, sec. 6 (w.e.f. 27-12-1985).
286\. Ins. by Act 40 of 1991, sec. 8 (w.e.f. 20-9-1991).
287\. Subs. by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 78(a)(iii), for “form” (w.e.f. 26-5-1999).
288\. Ins. by Act 18 of 1992, sec. 113(5)(i)(d) (w.e.f. 4-5-1992).
289\. Ins. by Act 27 of 1999, sec. 131(b) (w.r.e.f. 16-3-1995).
290\. Ins. by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 78(b) (w.e.f. 26-5-1999).
291\. Subs. by Act 10 of 2000, sec. 108(a), for certain words (w.e.f.
12-5-2000).
292\. Ins. by Act 19 of 1968, sec. 38(1) (w.e.f. 11-5-1968).
293\. Subs. by Act 18 of 1992, sec. 113(5)(ii), for “licence” (w.e.f.
4-5-1992).
294\. Subs. by Act 10 of 2000, sec. 108(b), for certain words, (w.e.f.
12-5-2000).
295\. Subs. by Act 22 of 2007, sec. 132(i), for “ten thousand rupees” (w.e.f.
11-5-2007).
296\. Ins. by Act 36 of 1973, sec. 24(ii) (w.e.f. 1-9-1973).
297\. Subs. by Act 10 of 2000, sec. 108, for certain words, (w.e.f.
12-5-2000).
298\. Subs. by Act 22 of 2007, sec. 132(ii), for “ten thousand rupees” (w.e.f.
11-5-2007).
299\. Ins. by Act 25 of 1978, sec. 26 (w.e.f. 1-7-1978).
300\. Subs. by Act 29 of 1988, sec. 14, for “a Collector of Central Excise”
(w.e.f. 16-8-1988).
301\. Subs. by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 70, for “Principal Collector of Central
Excise” (w.e.f. 26-5-1995).
302\. Subs. by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 70, for “Collector of Central Excise”
(w.e.f. 26-5-1995).
303\. Subs. by Act 27 of 1999, sec. 119(a), for “Deputy Commissioner of
Central Excise” (w.e.f. 11-5-1999).
304\. Subs. by Act 27 of 1999, sec. 119(a), for “Assistant Commissioner of
Central Excise” (w.e.f. 11-5-1999). Earlier the words “Assistant Commissioner
of Central Excise” were substituted by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 70, for “Assistant
Collector of Central Excise” (w.e.f. 26-5-1995).
305\. Subs. by Act 27 of 1999, sec. 119(a), for “Deputy Commissioner of
Central Excise” (w.e.f. 11-5-1999). Earlier the words “Deputy Commissioner of
Central Excise” were substituted by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 70, for “Deputy
Collector of Central Excise (w.e.f. 26-5-1995).
306\. Ins. by Act 79 of 1985, sec.7 (w.e.f. 27-12-1985).
307\. Subs. by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 70, for “Collector of Central Excise
(Appeals)” (w.e.f. 26-5-1995).
308\. Ins. by Act 12 of 1990, sec. 65 (w.e.f. 31-5-1990).
309\. Ins. by Act 29 of 2006, sec. 38 (w.e.f. 13-7-2006).
310\. Subs. by Act 22 of 1973, sec. 4, for section 38 (w.e.f. 1-9-1973).
311\. Subs. by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 79, for sub-section (2) (w.e.f.
26-5-1995). Earlier sub-section (2) was substituted by Act 29 of 1988, sec.
15, (w.e.f. 16-8-1988).
312\. Ins. by Act 26 of 1997, sec. 84 (w.e.f. 14-5-1997).
313\. Ins. by Act 14 of 2001, sec. 131 (w.r.e.f. 28-2-1944).
314\. Subs. by Act 22 of 1973, sec. 5, for section 40 (w.e.f. 1-9-1973).
304\. Subs. by Act 27 of 1999, sec. 119(a), for “Assistant Commissioner of
Central Excise” (w.e.f. 11-5-1999). Earlier the words “Assistant Commissioner
of Central Excise” were substituted by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 70, for “Assistant
Collector of Central Excise” (w.e.f. 26-5-1995).
305\. Subs. by Act 27 of 1999, sec. 119(a), for “Deputy Commissioner of
Central Excise” (w.e.f. 11-5-1999). Earlier the words “Deputy Commissioner of
Central Excise” were substituted by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 70, for “Deputy
Collector of Central Excise (w.e.f. 26-5-1995).
306\. Ins. by Act 79 of 1985, sec.7 (w.e.f. 27-12-1985).
307\. Subs. by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 70, for “Collector of Central Excise
(Appeals)” (w.e.f. 26-5-1995).
308\. Ins. by Act 12 of 1990, sec. 65 (w.e.f. 31-5-1990).
309\. Ins. by Act 29 of 2006, sec. 38 (w.e.f. 13-7-2006).
310\. Subs. by Act 22 of 1973, sec. 4, for section 38 (w.e.f. 1-9-1973).
311\. Subs. by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 79, for sub-section (2) (w.e.f.
26-5-1995). Earlier sub-section (2) was substituted by Act 29 of 1988, sec.
Commissioner of Central Excise, Commissioner of Central Excise, Commissioner
of Central Excise (Appeals), Additional Commissioner of Central Excise,
7[Joint Commissioner of Central Excise,] Deputy Commissioner of Central
Excise, Assistant Commis­sioner of Central Excise or any other officer of the
Central Excise Department, or any person (including an officer of the State
Government) invested by the Central Board of Excise and Customs constituted
under the Central Boards of Revenue Act, 1963 (54 of 1963) with any of the
powers of a Central Excise Officer under this Act;
(c) “curing” includes wilting, drying, fermenting and any process for
rendering an unmanufactured product fit for marketing or manufacture;
(d) “excisable goods” means goods specified in 8[the First Schedule and the
Second Schedule] to the Central Excise Tariff Act, 1985 (5 of 1986)] as being
subject to a duty of excise and includes salt;
(e) “factory” means any premises, including the precincts there­of, wherein or
in any part of which excisable goods other than salt are manufactured, or
wherein or in any part of which any manufacturing process connected with the
production of these goods is being carried on or is ordinarily carried on;
9[(ee) “fund” means the Consumer Welfare Fund established under section 12C];
10[(f) “manufacture” includes any process —
(i) incidental or ancillary to the completion of a manufactured product;
304\. Subs. by Act 27 of 1999, sec. 119(a), for “Assistant Commissioner of
Central Excise” (w.e.f. 11-5-1999). Earlier the words “Assistant Commissioner
of Central Excise” were substituted by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 70, for “Assistant
Collector of Central Excise” (w.e.f. 26-5-1995).
305\. Subs. by Act 27 of 1999, sec. 119(a), for “Deputy Commissioner of
Central Excise” (w.e.f. 11-5-1999). Earlier the words “Deputy Commissioner of
Central Excise” were substituted by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 70, for “Deputy
Collector of Central Excise (w.e.f. 26-5-1995).
306\. Ins. by Act 79 of 1985, sec.7 (w.e.f. 27-12-1985).
307\. Subs. by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 70, for “Collector of Central Excise
(Appeals)” (w.e.f. 26-5-1995).
308\. Ins. by Act 12 of 1990, sec. 65 (w.e.f. 31-5-1990).
309\. Ins. by Act 29 of 2006, sec. 38 (w.e.f. 13-7-2006).
310\. Subs. by Act 22 of 1973, sec. 4, for section 38 (w.e.f. 1-9-1973).
311\. Subs. by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 79, for sub-section (2) (w.e.f.
26-5-1995). Earlier sub-section (2) was substituted by Act 29 of 1988, sec.
Commissioner of Central Excise, Commissioner of Central Excise, Commissioner
of Central Excise (Appeals), Additional Commissioner of Central Excise,
7[Joint Commissioner of Central Excise,] Deputy Commissioner of Central
Excise, Assistant Commis­sioner of Central Excise or any other officer of the
Central Excise Department, or any person (including an officer of the State
Government) invested by the Central Board of Excise and Customs constituted
under the Central Boards of Revenue Act, 1963 (54 of 1963) with any of the
powers of a Central Excise Officer under this Act;
(c) “curing” includes wilting, drying, fermenting and any process for
rendering an unmanufactured product fit for marketing or manufacture;
(d) “excisable goods” means goods specified in 8[the First Schedule and the
Second Schedule] to the Central Excise Tariff Act, 1985 (5 of 1986)] as being
subject to a duty of excise and includes salt;
(e) “factory” means any premises, including the precincts there­of, wherein or
in any part of which excisable goods other than salt are manufactured, or
wherein or in any part of which any manufacturing process connected with the
production of these goods is being carried on or is ordinarily carried on;
9[(ee) “fund” means the Consumer Welfare Fund established under section 12C];
10[(f) “manufacture” includes any process —
(i) incidental or ancillary to the completion of a manufactured product;
304\. Subs. by Act 27 of 1999, sec. 119(a), for “Assistant Commissioner of
Central Excise” (w.e.f. 11-5-1999). Earlier the words “Assistant Commissioner
of Central Excise” were substituted by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 70, for “Assistant
Collector of Central Excise” (w.e.f. 26-5-1995).
305\. Subs. by Act 27 of 1999, sec. 119(a), for “Deputy Commissioner of
Central Excise” (w.e.f. 11-5-1999). Earlier the words “Deputy Commissioner of
Central Excise” were substituted by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 70, for “Deputy
Collector of Central Excise (w.e.f. 26-5-1995).
306\. Ins. by Act 79 of 1985, sec.7 (w.e.f. 27-12-1985).
307\. Subs. by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 70, for “Collector of Central Excise
(Appeals)” (w.e.f. 26-5-1995).
308\. Ins. by Act 12 of 1990, sec. 65 (w.e.f. 31-5-1990).
309\. Ins. by Act 29 of 2006, sec. 38 (w.e.f. 13-7-2006).
310\. Subs. by Act 22 of 1973, sec. 4, for section 38 (w.e.f. 1-9-1973).
311\. Subs. by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 79, for sub-section (2) (w.e.f.
26-5-1995). Earlier sub-section (2) was substituted by Act 29 of 1988, sec.
Commissioner of Central Excise, Commissioner of Central Excise, Commissioner
of Central Excise (Appeals), Additional Commissioner of Central Excise,
7[Joint Commissioner of Central Excise,] Deputy Commissioner of Central
Excise, Assistant Commis­sioner of Central Excise or any other officer of the
Central Excise Department, or any person (including an officer of the State
Government) invested by the Central Board of Excise and Customs constituted
under the Central Boards of Revenue Act, 1963 (54 of 1963) with any of the
powers of a Central Excise Officer under this Act;
(c) “curing” includes wilting, drying, fermenting and any process for
rendering an unmanufactured product fit for marketing or manufacture;
(d) “excisable goods” means goods specified in 8[the First Schedule and the
Second Schedule] to the Central Excise Tariff Act, 1985 (5 of 1986)] as being
subject to a duty of excise and includes salt;
(e) “factory” means any premises, including the precincts there­of, wherein or
in any part of which excisable goods other than salt are manufactured, or
wherein or in any part of which any manufacturing process connected with the
production of these goods is being carried on or is ordinarily carried on;
9[(ee) “fund” means the Consumer Welfare Fund established under section 12C];
10[(f) “manufacture” includes any process —
(i) incidental or ancillary to the completion of a manufactured product;
304\. Subs. by Act 27 of 1999, sec. 119(a), for “Assistant Commissioner of
Central Excise” (w.e.f. 11-5-1999). Earlier the words “Assistant Commissioner
of Central Excise” were substituted by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 70, for “Assistant
Collector of Central Excise” (w.e.f. 26-5-1995).
305\. Subs. by Act 27 of 1999, sec. 119(a), for “Deputy Commissioner of
Central Excise” (w.e.f. 11-5-1999). Earlier the words “Deputy Commissioner of
Central Excise” were substituted by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 70, for “Deputy
Collector of Central Excise (w.e.f. 26-5-1995).
306\. Ins. by Act 79 of 1985, sec.7 (w.e.f. 27-12-1985).
307\. Subs. by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 70, for “Collector of Central Excise
(Appeals)” (w.e.f. 26-5-1995).
308\. Ins. by Act 12 of 1990, sec. 65 (w.e.f. 31-5-1990).
309\. Ins. by Act 29 of 2006, sec. 38 (w.e.f. 13-7-2006).
310\. Subs. by Act 22 of 1973, sec. 4, for section 38 (w.e.f. 1-9-1973).
311\. Subs. by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 79, for sub-section (2) (w.e.f.
26-5-1995). Earlier sub-section (2) was substituted by Act 29 of 1988, sec.
Commissioner of Central Excise, Commissioner of Central Excise, Commissioner
of Central Excise (Appeals), Additional Commissioner of Central Excise,
7[Joint Commissioner of Central Excise,] Deputy Commissioner of Central
Excise, Assistant Commis­sioner of Central Excise or any other officer of the
Central Excise Department, or any person (including an officer of the State
Government) invested by the Central Board of Excise and Customs constituted
under the Central Boards of Revenue Act, 1963 (54 of 1963) with any of the
powers of a Central Excise Officer under this Act;
(c) “curing” includes wilting, drying, fermenting and any process for
rendering an unmanufactured product fit for marketing or manufacture;
(d) “excisable goods” means goods specified in 8[the First Schedule and the
Second Schedule] to the Central Excise Tariff Act, 1985 (5 of 1986)] as being
subject to a duty of excise and includes salt;
(e) “factory” means any premises, including the precincts there­of, wherein or
in any part of which excisable goods other than salt are manufactured, or
wherein or in any part of which any manufacturing process connected with the
production of these goods is being carried on or is ordinarily carried on;
9[(ee) “fund” means the Consumer Welfare Fund established under section 12C];
10[(f) “manufacture” includes any process —
(i) incidental or ancillary to the completion of a manufactured product;
(ii) which is specified in relation to any goods in the section or Chapter
notes of 11[The First Schedule] to the Central Excise Tariff Act, 1985 (5 of
1986) as amounting to 12[manufacture; or] 13[(iii) which in relation to the
goods specified in the Third Schedule, involves packing or repacking of such
goods in a unit container or labelling or re-labelling of containers including
the declaration or alteration of retail sale price on it or adoption of any
other treatment on the goods to render the product marketable to the
consumer;] And the word “manufacture” shall be construed accordingly and shall
include not only a person who employs hired labour in the production or
manufacture of excisable goods, but also any person who engages in their
production or manufacture on his own account; 14[(ff) “National Tax Tribunal”
304\. Subs. by Act 27 of 1999, sec. 119(a), for “Assistant Commissioner of
Central Excise” (w.e.f. 11-5-1999). Earlier the words “Assistant Commissioner
of Central Excise” were substituted by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 70, for “Assistant
Collector of Central Excise” (w.e.f. 26-5-1995).
305\. Subs. by Act 27 of 1999, sec. 119(a), for “Deputy Commissioner of
Central Excise” (w.e.f. 11-5-1999). Earlier the words “Deputy Commissioner of
Central Excise” were substituted by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 70, for “Deputy
Collector of Central Excise (w.e.f. 26-5-1995).
306\. Ins. by Act 79 of 1985, sec.7 (w.e.f. 27-12-1985).
307\. Subs. by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 70, for “Collector of Central Excise
(Appeals)” (w.e.f. 26-5-1995).
308\. Ins. by Act 12 of 1990, sec. 65 (w.e.f. 31-5-1990).
309\. Ins. by Act 29 of 2006, sec. 38 (w.e.f. 13-7-2006).
310\. Subs. by Act 22 of 1973, sec. 4, for section 38 (w.e.f. 1-9-1973).
311\. Subs. by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 79, for sub-section (2) (w.e.f.
26-5-1995). Earlier sub-section (2) was substituted by Act 29 of 1988, sec.
Commissioner of Central Excise, Commissioner of Central Excise, Commissioner
of Central Excise (Appeals), Additional Commissioner of Central Excise,
7[Joint Commissioner of Central Excise,] Deputy Commissioner of Central
Excise, Assistant Commis­sioner of Central Excise or any other officer of the
Central Excise Department, or any person (including an officer of the State
Government) invested by the Central Board of Excise and Customs constituted
under the Central Boards of Revenue Act, 1963 (54 of 1963) with any of the
powers of a Central Excise Officer under this Act;
(c) “curing” includes wilting, drying, fermenting and any process for
rendering an unmanufactured product fit for marketing or manufacture;
(d) “excisable goods” means goods specified in 8[the First Schedule and the
Second Schedule] to the Central Excise Tariff Act, 1985 (5 of 1986)] as being
subject to a duty of excise and includes salt;
(e) “factory” means any premises, including the precincts there­of, wherein or
in any part of which excisable goods other than salt are manufactured, or
wherein or in any part of which any manufacturing process connected with the
production of these goods is being carried on or is ordinarily carried on;
9[(ee) “fund” means the Consumer Welfare Fund established under section 12C];
10[(f) “manufacture” includes any process —
(i) incidental or ancillary to the completion of a manufactured product;
(ii) which is specified in relation to any goods in the section or Chapter
notes of 11[The First Schedule] to the Central Excise Tariff Act, 1985 (5 of
1986) as amounting to 12[manufacture; or] 13[(iii) which in relation to the
goods specified in the Third Schedule, involves packing or repacking of such
goods in a unit container or labelling or re-labelling of containers including
the declaration or alteration of retail sale price on it or adoption of any
other treatment on the goods to render the product marketable to the
consumer;] And the word “manufacture” shall be construed accordingly and shall
include not only a person who employs hired labour in the production or
manufacture of excisable goods, but also any person who engages in their
production or manufacture on his own account; 14[(ff) “National Tax Tribunal”
304\. Subs. by Act 27 of 1999, sec. 119(a), for “Assistant Commissioner of
Central Excise” (w.e.f. 11-5-1999). Earlier the words “Assistant Commissioner
of Central Excise” were substituted by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 70, for “Assistant
Collector of Central Excise” (w.e.f. 26-5-1995).
305\. Subs. by Act 27 of 1999, sec. 119(a), for “Deputy Commissioner of
Central Excise” (w.e.f. 11-5-1999). Earlier the words “Deputy Commissioner of
Central Excise” were substituted by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 70, for “Deputy
Collector of Central Excise (w.e.f. 26-5-1995).
306\. Ins. by Act 79 of 1985, sec.7 (w.e.f. 27-12-1985).
307\. Subs. by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 70, for “Collector of Central Excise
(Appeals)” (w.e.f. 26-5-1995).
308\. Ins. by Act 12 of 1990, sec. 65 (w.e.f. 31-5-1990).
309\. Ins. by Act 29 of 2006, sec. 38 (w.e.f. 13-7-2006).
310\. Subs. by Act 22 of 1973, sec. 4, for section 38 (w.e.f. 1-9-1973).
311\. Subs. by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 79, for sub-section (2) (w.e.f.
26-5-1995). Earlier sub-section (2) was substituted by Act 29 of 1988, sec.
