Central Government Act
the Competition Act, 2002
The competition act, 2002  
1. Short title, extent and commencement.—
(1) This Act may be called the Competition Act, 2002.
(2) It extends to the whole of India except the State of Jammu and Kashmir.
(3) It shall come into force on such date 1 as the Central Government may, by
notification in the Official Gazette, appoint: Provided that different dates
may be appointed for different provisions of this Act and any reference in any
such provision to the commencement of this Act shall be construed as a
reference to the coming into force of that provision.
2 Definitions. —In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,—
(a) “acquisition” means, directly or indirectly, acquiring or agreeing to
acquire—
(i) shares, voting rights or assets of any enterprise; or
(ii) control over management or control over assets of any enterprise;
(b) “agreement” includes any arrangement or understanding or action in
concert,—
(i) whether or not, such arrangement, understanding or action is formal or in
writing; or
1-9-2009). The second proviso, before substitution, stood as under:
75\. Subs. by Act 39 of 2007, sec. 50(b)(ii), for the words "the Central
Government" (w.e.f. 1-9-2009).
76\. Subs. by Act 39 of 2007, sec. 50(b)(iii), for the words "the Central
Government shall, out of the monies standing" (w.e.f. 1-9-2009).
77\. Subs. by Act 39 of 2007, sec. 50(b)(iii), for the words "the Central
Government and such monies which stand so transferred shall be dealt with by
the said Government in such manner as may be prescribed." (w.e.f. 1-9-2009).
78\. Subs. by Act 39 of 2007, sec. 50(c), for sub-section (3) (w.e.f.
1-9-2009). Sub-section (3), before substitution, stood as under:
79\. Subs. by Ord. 6 of 2009, sec. 2(b), for "after the expiry of two years
referred to in the proviso to sub-section (1)" (w.e.f. 14-10-2009).
80\. Subs. by Ord. 6 of 2009, sec. 2(c), for “on or before the expiry of two
years referred to in the proviso to sub-section (1)” (w.e.f. 14-10-2009).
Earlier these words were substituted by Act 39 of 2007, sec. 50(d) (w.e.f.
1-9-2009).
writing; or
(ii) whether or not such arrangement, understanding or action is intended to
be enforceable by legal proceedings;
2 [(ba) "Appellate Tribunal" means the Competition Appellate Tribunal
established under sub-section (1) of section 53A;]
(c) “cartel” includes an association of producers, sellers, distributors,
traders or service providers who, by agreement amongst themselves, limit
control or attempt to control the production, distribution, sale or price of,
or, trade in goods or provision of services;
(d) “Chairperson” means the Chairperson of the Commission appointed under sub-
section (1) of section 8;
(e) “Commission” means the Competition Commission of India established under
sub-section (1) of section 7;
(f) “consumer” means any person who—
(i) buys any goods for a consideration which has been paid or promised or
partly paid and partly promised, or under any system of deferred payment and
includes any user of such goods other than the person who buys such goods for
consideration paid or promised or partly paid or partly promised, or under any
system of deferred payment when such use is made with the approval of such
person, whether such purchase of goods is for resale or for any commercial
purpose or for personal use;
(ii) hires or avails of any services for a consideration which has been paid
or promised or partly paid and partly promised, or under any system of
deferred payment and includes any beneficiary of such services other than the
person who hires or avails of the services for consideration paid or promised,
or partly paid and partly promised, or under any system of deferred payment,
when such services are availed of with the approval of the first-mentioned
person whether such hiring or availing of services is for any commercial
purpose or for personal use;
(g) “Director-General” means the Director-General appointed under sub-section
(1) of section 16 and includes any Additional, Joint, Deputy or Assistant
Directors General appointed under that section;
(h) “enterprise” means a person or a department of the Government, who or
which is, or has been, engaged in any activity, relating to the production,
storage, supply, distribution, acquisition or control of articles or goods, or
the provision of services, of any kind, or in investment, or in the business
of acquiring, holding, underwriting or dealing with shares, debentures or
other securities of any other body corporate, either directly or through one
or more of its units or divisions or subsidiaries, whether such unit or
division or subsidiary is located at the same place where the enterprise is
located or at a different place or at different places, but does not include
any activity of the Government relatable to the sovereign functions of the
Government including all activities carried on by the departments of the
Central Government dealing with atomic energy, currency, defence and space.
Explanation .—For the purposes of this clause,—
(a) “activity” includes profession or occupation;
(b) “article” includes a new article and “service” includes a new service;
(c) “unit” or “division”, in relation to an enterprise, includes—
(i) a plant or factory established for the production, storage, supply,
distribution, acquisition or control of any article or goods;
(ii) any branch or office established for the provision of any service;
(i) “goods” means goods as defined in the Sale of Goods Act, 1930 (8 of 1930)
and includes—
(A) products manufactured, processed or mined;
(B) debentures, stocks and shares after allotment;
(C) in relation to goods supplied, distributed or controlled in India, goods
imported into India;
(j) "Member" means a Member of the Commission appointed under sub-section (1)
of section 9 and includes the Chairperson;
(k) "notification" means a notification published in the Official Gazette;
(l) “person” includes—
(i) an individual;
(ii) a Hindu undivided family;
(iii) a company;
(iv) a firm;
(v) an association of persons or a body of individuals, whether incorporated
or not, in India or outside India;
(vi) any corporation established by or under any Central, State or Provincial
Act or a Government company as defined in section 617 of the Companies Act,
1956 (1 of 1956);
(vii) any body corporate incorporated by or under the laws of a country
outside India;
(viii) a co-operative society registered under any law relating to co-
operative societies;
(ix) a local authority;
(x) every artificial juridical person, not falling within any of the preceding
sub-clauses;
(m) “practice” includes any practice relating to the carrying on of any trade
by a person or an enterprise;
(n) “prescribed” means prescribed by rules made under this Act;
(o) “price”, in relation to the sale of any goods or to the performance of any
services, includes every valuable consideration, whether direct or indirect,
or deferred, and includes any consideration which in effect relates to the
sale of any goods or to the performance of any services although ostensibly
relating to any other matter or thing;
(p) “public financial institution” means a public financial institution
specified under section 4A of the Companies Act, 1956, (1 of 1956) and
includes a State Financial, industrial or Investment Corporation;
(q) “regulations” means the regulations made by the Commission under section
64;
(r) “relevant market” means the market which may be determined by the
Commission with reference to the relevant product market or the relevant
geographic market or with reference to both the markets;
(s) “relevant geographic market” means a market comprising the area in which
the conditions of competition for supply of goods or provision of services or
demand of goods or services are distinctly homogenous and can be distinguished
from the conditions prevailing in the neighbouring areas;
(t) “relevant product market” means a market comprising all those products or
services which are regarded as interchangeable or substitutable by the
consumer, by reason of characteristics of the products or services, their
prices and intended use;
(u) “service” means service of any description which is made available to
potential users and includes the provision of services in connection with
business of any industrial or commercial matters such as banking,
communication, education, financing, insurance, chit funds, real estate,
transport, storage, material treatment, processing, supply of electrical or
other energy, boarding, lodging, entertainment, amusement, construction,
repair, conveying of news or information and advertising;
(v) “shares” means shares in the share capital of a company carrying voting
rights and includes—
(i) any security which entitles the holder to receive shares with voting
rights;
(ii) stock except where a distinction between stock and share is expressed or
implied;
(w) “statutory authority” means any authority, board, corporation, council,
institute, university or any other body corporate, established by or under any
Central, State or Provincial Act for the purposes of regulating production or
supply of goods or provision of any services or markets therefor or any matter
connected therewith or incidental thereto;
(x) “trade” means any trade, business, industry, profession or occupation
relating to the production, supply, distribution, storage or control of goods
and includes the provision of any services;
(y) “turnover” includes value of sale of goods or services;
(z) words and expressions used but not defined in this Act and defined in the
Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956) shall have the same meanings respectively
assigned to them in that Act.
3. Anti-competitive agreements.—
(1) No enterprise or association of enterprises or person or association of
persons shall enter into any agreement in respect of production, supply,
distribution, storage, acquisition or control of goods or provision of
services, which causes or is likely to cause an appreciable adverse effect on
competition within India.
(2) Any agreement entered into in contravention of the provisions contained in
sub-section (1) shall be void.
(3) Any agreement entered into between enterprises or associations of
enterprises or persons or associations of persons or between any person and
enterprise or practice carried on, or decision taken by, any association of
enterprises or association of persons, including cartels, engaged in identical
or similar trade of goods or provision of services, which—
(a) directly or indirectly determines purchase or sale prices;
(b) limits or controls production, supply, markets, technical development,
investment or provision of services;
(c) shares the market or source of production or provision of services by way
of allocation of geographical area of market, or type of goods or services, or
number of customers in the market or any other similar way;
(d) directly or indirectly results in bid rigging or collusive bidding, shall
be presumed to have an appreciable adverse effect on competition: Provided
that nothing contained in this sub-section shall apply to any agreement
entered into by way of joint ventures if such agreement increases efficiency
in production, supply, distribution, storage, acquisition or control of goods
or provision of services. Explanation.—For the purposes of this sub-section,
"bid rigging" means any agreement, between enterprises or persons referred to
in sub-section (3) engaged in identical or similar production or trading of
goods or provision of services, which has the effect of eliminating or
reducing competition for bids or adversely affecting or manipulating the
process for bidding.
(4) Any agreement amongst enterprises or persons at different stages or levels
of the production chain in different markets, in respect of production,
supply, distribution, storage, sale or price of, or trade in goods or
provision of services, including—
(a) tie-in arrangement;
(b) exclusive supply agreement;
(c) exclusive distribution agreement;
(d) refusal to deal;
(e) resale price maintenance, shall be an agreement in contravention of sub-
section (1) if such agreement causes or is likely to cause an appreciable
adverse effect on competition in India. Explanation.—For the purposes of this
sub-section,—
(a) “tie-in arrangements” includes any agreement requiring a purchaser of
goods, as a condition of such purchase, to purchase some other goods;
(b) “exclusive supply agreement” includes any agreement restricting in any
manner the purchaser in the course of his trade from acquiring or otherwise
dealing in any goods other than those of the seller or any other person;
(c) “exclusive distribution agreement” includes any agreement to limit,
restrict or withhold the output or supply of any goods or allocate any area or
market for the disposal or sale of the goods;
(d) “refusal to deal” includes any agreement which restricts, or is likely to
restrict, by any method the persons or classes of persons to whom goods are
sold or from whom goods are bought;
(e) “resale price maintenance” includes any agreement to sell goods on
condition that the prices to be charged on the resale by the purchaser shall
be the prices stipulated by the seller unless it is clearly stated that prices
lower than those prices may be charged.
(5) Nothing contained in this section shall restrict—
(i) the right of any person to restrain any infringement of, or to impose
reasonable conditions, as may be necessary for protecting any of his rights
which have been or may be conferred upon him under:
(a) the Copyright Act, 1957 (14 of 1957);
(b) the Patents Act, 1970 (39 of 1970);
(c) the Trade and Merchandise Marks Act, 1958 (43 of 1958) or the Trade Marks
Act, 1999 (47 of 1999);
(d) the Geographical Indications of Goods (Registration and Protection) Act,
1999 (48 of 1999);
(e) the Designs Act, 2000 (16 of 2000);
(f) the Semi-conductor Integrated Circuits Layout-Design Act, 2000 (37 of
2000);
(ii) the right of any person to export goods from India to the extent to which
the agreement relates exclusively to the production, supply, distribution or
control of goods or provision of services for such export.
4. Abuse of dominant position.—
(1) No enterprise shall abuse its dominant position.
(2) There shall be an abuse of dominant position under sub-section (1), if an
enterprise,—
(a) directly or indirectly, imposes unfair or discriminatory—
(i) condition in purchase or sale of goods or services; or
(ii) price in purchase or sale (including predatory price) of goods or
service; or Explanation.—For the purposes of this clause, the unfair or
discriminatory condition in purchase or sale of goods or services referred to
in sub-clause (i) and unfair or discriminatory price in purchase or sale of
goods (including predatory price) or service referred to in sub-clause (ii)
shall not include such discriminatory conditions or prices which may be
adopted to meet the competition; or
(b) limits or restricts—
(i) production of goods or provision of services or market therefor; or
(ii) technical or scientific development relating to goods or services to the
prejudice of consumers; or
(c) indulges in practice or practices resulting in denial of market access; or
(d) makes conclusion of contracts subject to acceptance by other parties of
supplementary obligations which, by their nature or according to commercial
usage, have no connection with the subject of such contracts; or
(e) uses its dominant position in one relevant market to enter into, or
protect, other relevant market. Explanation .—For the purposes of this
section, the expression—
(a) “dominant position” means a position of strength, enjoyed by an
enterprise, in the relevant market, in India, which enables it to—
(i) operate independently of competitive forces prevailing in the relevant
market; or
(ii) affect its competitors or consumers or the relevant market in its favour;
(b) “predatory price” means the sale of goods or provision of services, at a
price which is below the cost, as may be determined by regulations, of
production of the goods or provision of services, with a view to reduce
competition or eliminate the competitors.
5. Combination.—The acquisition of one or more enterprises by one or more persons or merger or amalgamation of enterprises shall be a combination of such enterprises and persons or enterprises, if—
(a) any acquisition where—
(i) the parties to the acquisition, being the acquirer and the enterprise,
whose control, shares, voting rights or assets have been acquired or are being
acquired jointly have,—
(A) either, in India, the assets of the value of more than rupees one thousand
crore or turnover more than rupees three thousand crore; or
(B) in India or outside India, in aggregate, the assets of the value of more
than five hundred million US dollars or turnover of more than fifteen hundred
million US dollars; or
(ii) the group, to which the enterprise whose control, shares, assets or
voting rights have been acquired or are being acquired, would belong after the
acquisition, jointly have or would jointly have,—
(A) either in India, the assets of the value of more than rupees four thousand
crore or turnover of more than rupees twelve thousand crore; or
(B) in India or outside India, in aggregate, the assets of the value of more
than two billion US dollars or turnover of more than six billion US dollars;
or
(b) acquiring of control by a person over an enterprise when such person has
already direct or indirect control over another enterprise engaged in
production, distribution or trading of a similar or identical or substitutable
goods or provision of a similar or identical or substitutable service, if—
(i) the enterprise over which control has been acquired along with the
enterprise over which the acquirer already has direct or indirect control
jointly have,—
(A) either in India, the assets of the value of more than rupees one thousand
crore or turnover of more than rupees three thousand crore; or
(B) in India or outside India, in aggregate, the assets of the value of more
than five hundred million US dollars or turnover more than fifteen hundred
million US dollars; or
(ii) the group, to which enterprise whose control has been acquired, or is
being acquired would belong after the acquisition, jointly have or would
jointly have,—
(A) either in India, the assets of the value of more than rupees four thousand
crore or turnover of more than rupees twelve thousand crore; or
(B) in India or outside India, in aggregate, the assets of the value of more
than two billion US dollars or turnover of more than six billion US dollars;
or
(c) any merger or amalgamation in which—
(i) the enterprise remaining after merger or the enterprise created as a
result of the amalgamation, as the case may be, have,—
(A) either in India, the assets of the value of more than rupees one thousand
crore or turnover of more than rupees three thousand crore; or
(B) in India or outside India, in aggregate, the assets of the value of more
than five hundred million US dollars or turnover of more than fifteen hundred
million US dollars; or
(ii) the group, to which the enterprise remaining after the merger or the
enterprise created as a result of the amalgamation, would belong after the
merger or the amalgamation, as the case may be, have or would have,—
(A) either in India, the assets of the value of more than rupees four thousand
crore or turnover of more than rupees twelve thousand crore; or
(B) in India or outside India, the assets of the value of more than two
billion US dollars or turnover of more than six billion US dollars.
Explanation.—For the purposes of this section,—
(a) “control” includes controlling the affairs or management by—
(i) one or more enterprises, either jointly or singly, over another enterprise
or group;
(ii) one or more groups, either jointly or singly, over another group or
enterprise;
(b) “group” means two or more enterprises which, directly or indirectly, are
in a position to—
(i) exercise twenty-six per cent. or more of the voting rights in the other
enterprise; or
(ii) appoint more than fifty per cent. of the members of the board of
directors in the other enterprise; or
(iii) control the management or affairs of the other enterprise;
(c) the value of assets shall be determined by taking the book value of the
assets as shown, in the audited books of account of the enterprise, in the
financial year immediately preceding the financial year in which the date of
proposed merger falls, as reduced by any depreciation, and the value of assets
shall include the brand value, value of goodwill, or value of copyright,
patent, permitted use, collective mark, registered proprietor, registered
trade mark, registered user, homonymous geographical indication, geographical
indications, design or layout-design or similar other commercial rights, if
any, referred to in sub-section (5) of section 3.
6. Regulation of combinations.—
(1) No person or enterprise shall enter into a combination which causes or is
likely to cause an appreciable adverse effect on competition within the
relevant market in India and such a combination shall be void.
(2) Subject to the provisions contained in sub-section (1), any person or
enterprise, who or which proposes to enter into a combination, may, at his or
its option, give notice to the Commission, in the form as may be specified,
and the fee which may be determined, by regulations, disclosing the details of
the proposed combination, within seven days of—
(a) approval of the proposal relating to merger or amalgamation, referred to
in clause (c) of section 5, by the board of directors of the enterprises
concerned with such merger or amalgamation, as the case may be;
(b) execution of any agreement or other document for acquisition referred to
in clause (a) of section 5 or acquiring of control referred to in clause (b)
of that section.
(3) The Commission shall, after receipt of notice under sub-section (2), deal
with such notice in accordance with the provisions contained in sections 29,
30 and 31.
(4) The provisions of this section shall not apply to share subscription or
financing facility or any acquisition, by a public financial institution,
foreign institutional investor, bank or venture capital fund, pursuant to any
covenant of a loan agreement or investment agreement.
(5) The public financial institution, foreign institutional investor, bank or
venture capital fund, referred to in sub-section (4), shall, within seven days
from the date of the acquisition, file, in the form as may be specified by
regulations, with the Commission the details of the acquisition including the
details of control, the circumstances for exercise of such control and the
consequences of default arising out of such loan agreement or investment
agreement, as the case may be. Explanation.—For the purposes of this section,
the expression—
(a) “foreign institutional investor” has the same meaning as assigned to it in
clause (a) of the Explanation to section 115AD of the Income-tax Act, 1961 (43
of 1961);
(b) “venture capital fund” has the same meaning as assigned to it in clause
(b) of the Explanation to clause (23FB) of section 10 of the Income-tax Act,
1961 (43 of 1961).
7. Establishment of Commission.—
(1) With effect from such date 3 as the Central Government may, by
notification, appoint, there shall be established, for the purposes of this
Act, a Commission to be called the “Competition Commission of India”.
(2) The Commission shall be a body corporate by the name aforesaid having
perpetual succession and a common seal with power, subject to the provisions
of this Act, to acquire, hold and dispose of property, both movable and
immovable, and to contract and shall, by the said name, sue or be sued.
(3) The head office of the Commission shall be at such place 4 as the Central
Government may decide from time to time.
(4) The Commission may establish offices at other places in India.
5 [ 8 Composition of Commission. —
(1) The Commission shall consist of a Chairperson and not less than two and
not more than six other Members to be appointed by the Central Government.
(2) The Chairperson and every other Member shall be a person of ability,
integrity and standing and who has special knowledge of, and such professional
experience of not less than fifteen years in, international trade, economics,
business, commerce, law, finance, accountancy, management, industry, public
affairs or competition matters, including competition law and policy, which in
the opinion of the Central Government, may be useful to the Commission.
(3) The Chairperson and other Members shall be whole-time Members.] "8.
Composition of Commission.—(1) The Commission shall consist of a Chairperson
and not less than two and not more than ten other Members to be appointed by
the Central Government: Provided that the Central Government shall appoint the
Chairperson and a Member during the first year of the establishment of the
Commission. (2) The Chairperson and every other Member shall be a person of
ability, integrity and standing and who has been, or is qualified to be, a
Judge of a High Court or has special knowledge of, and professional experience
of not less than fifteen years in international trade, economics, business,
commerce, law, finance, accountancy, management, industry, public affairs,
administration or in any other matter which, in the opinion of the Central
Government, may be useful to the Commission. (3) The Chairperson and other
Members shall be whole-time Members.".
10 Term of office of Chairperson and other Members. —
(1) The Chairperson and every other Member shall hold office as such for a
term of five years from the date on which he enters upon his office and shall
be eligible for reappointment: 6 [Provided that the Chairperson or other
Members shall not hold office as such after he has attained the age of sixty-
five years.]
(2) A vacancy caused by the resignation or removal of the Chairperson or any
other Member under section 11 or by death or otherwise shall be filled by
fresh appointment in accordance with the provisions of section 9.
(3) The Chairperson and every other Member shall, before entering upon his
office, make and subscribe to an oath of office and of secrecy in such form,
manner and before such authority, as may be prescribed.
(4) In the event of the occurrence of a vacancy in the office of the
Chairperson by reason of his death, resignation or otherwise, the senior-most
Member shall act as the Chairperson, until the date on which a new
Chairperson, appointed in accordance with the provisions of this Act to fill
such vacancy, enters upon his office.
(5) When the Chairperson is unable to discharge his functions owing to
absence, illness or any other cause, the senior-most Member shall discharge
the functions of the Chairperson until the date on which the Chairperson
resumes the charge of his functions. "Provided that no Chairperson or other
Member shall hold office as such after he has attained,—
(a) in the case of the Chairperson, the age of sixty-seven years;
(b) in the case of any other Member, the age of sixty-five years.".
11. Resignation, removal and suspension of Chairperson and other Members.—
(1) The Chairperson or any other Member may, by notice in writing under his
hand addressed to the Central Government, resign his office: Provided that the
Chairperson or a Member shall, unless he is permitted by the Central
Government to relinquish his office sooner, continue to hold office until the
expiry of three months from the date of receipt of such notice or until a
person duly appointed as his successor enters upon his office or until the
expiry of his term of office, whichever is the earliest.
(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1) the Central
Government may, by order, remove the Chairperson or any other Member from his
office if such Chairperson or Member, as the case may be,—
(a) is, or at any time has been, adjudged as an insolvent; or
(b) has engaged at any time, during his term of office, in any paid
employment; or
(c) has been convicted of an offence which, in the opinion of the Central
Government, involves moral turpitude; or
(d) has acquired such financial or other interest as is likely to affect
prejudicially his functions as a Member; or
(e) has so abused his position as to render his continuance in office
prejudicial to the public interest; or
(f) has become physically or mentally incapable of acting as a Member.
(3) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (2), no Member shall be
removed from his office on the ground specified in clause (d) or clause (e) of
that sub-section unless the Supreme Court, on a reference being made to it in
this behalf by the Central Government, has, on an inquiry, held by it in
accordance with such procedure as may be prescribed in this behalf by the
Supreme Court, reported that the Member, ought on such ground or grounds to be
removed.
12 Restriction on employment of Chairperson and other Members in certain
cases. —The Chairperson and other Members shall not, for a period of 7 [two
years] from the date on which they cease to hold office, accept any employment
in, or connected with the management or administration of, any enterprise
which has been a party to a proceeding before the Commission under this Act:
Provided that nothing contained in this section shall apply to any employment
under the Central Government or a State Government or local authority or in
any statutory authority or any corporation established by or under any
Central, State or Provincial Act or a Government company as defined in section
617 of the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956). The Chairperson or a Member shall
not, for a period of two year from the date on which they cease to hold
office, accept any employment in or connected with the management or
administration of any enterprise which has been a party to a proceeding before
the Commission. However, such a restriction of employment shall not apply in
case of any employment under the Central Government or a State Government or a
local authority or a statutory authority or corporation established by a
Central, State or Provincial Act, or in Government company.
13. Financial and administrative powers of Member Administration.—The Central Government shall designate any Member as Member Administration who shall exercise such financial and administrative powers as may be vested in him under the rules made by the Central Government: Provided that the Member Administration shall have authority to delegate such of his financial and administrative powers as he may think fit to any other officer of the commission subject to the condition that such officer shall, while exercising such delegated powers continue to act under the direction, superintendence and control of the Member Administration.
14. Salary and allowances and other terms and conditions of service of Chairperson and other Members.—
(1) The salary, and the other terms and conditions of service of the
Chairperson and other Members including travelling expenses, house rent
allowance and conveyance facilities, sumptuary allowance and medical
facilities shall be such as may be prescribed.
(2) The salary, allowances and other terms and conditions of service of the
Chairperson or a Member shall not be varied to his disadvantage after
appointment.
15. Vacancy, etc., not to invalidate proceedings of Commission.—No act or proceeding of the Commission shall be invalid merely by reason of—
(a) any vacancy in, or any defect in the constitution of, the Commission; or
(b) any defect in the appointment of a person acting as a Chairperson or as a
Member; or
(c) any irregularity in the procedure of the Commission not affecting the
merits of the case.
16 Appointment of Director-General, etc. — 8 [
(1) The Central Government may, by notification, appoint a Director-General
for the purposes of assisting the Commission in conducting inquiry into
contravention of any of the provisions of this Act and for performing such
other functions as are, or may be, provided by or under this Act.
(1A) The number of other Additional, Joint, Deputy or Assistant Directors-
General or such officers or other employees in the office of Director-General
and the manner of appointment of such Additional, Joint, Deputy or Assistant
Directors-General or such officers or other employees shall be such as may be
prescribed.]
(2) Every Additional, Joint, Deputy and Assistant Directors General 9 [such
officers or other employees,] shall exercise his powers, and discharge his
functions, subject to the general control, supervision and direction of the
Director General.
(3) The salary, allowances and other terms and conditions of service of the
Director General and Additional, Joint, Deputy and Assistant Directors General
or 10 [such officers or other employees,] shall be such as may be prescribed.
(4) The Director General and Additional, Joint, Deputy and Assistant Directors
General or 10 [such officers or other employees,] shall be appointed from
amongst persons of integrity and outstanding ability and who have experience
in investigation, and knowledge of accountancy, management, business, public
administration, international trade, law or economics and such other
qualifications as may be prescribed. "(1) The Central Government may, by
notification, appoint a Director General and as many Additional, Joint, Deputy
or Assistant Directors General or such other advisers, consultants or
officers, as it may think fit, for the purposes of assisting the Commission in
conducting inquiry into contravention of any of the provisions of this Act and
for the conduct of cases before the Commission and for performing such other
functions as are, or may be, provided by or under this Act.".
11 [ 17 Appointment of Secretary, experts, professionals and officers and
other employees of Commission. —
(1) The Commission may appoint a Secretary and such officers and other
employees as it considers necessary for the efficient performance of its
functions under this Act.
(2) The salaries and allowances payable to and other terms and conditions of
service of the Secretary and officers and other employees of the Commission
and the number of such officers and other employees shall be such as may be
prescribed.
(3) The Commission may engage, in accordance with the procedure specified by
regulations, such number of experts and professionals of integrity and
outstanding ability, who have special knowledge of, and experience in
economics, law, business or such other disciplines related to competition, as
it deems necessary to assist the Commission in the discharge of its functions
under this Act.]" 17. Registrar and officers and other employees of
Commission. —(1) The Commission may appoint a Registrar and such officers and
other employees as it considers necessary for the efficient performance of its
functions under this Act.
(2) The salaries and allowances payable to and other terms and conditions of
service of the Registrar and officers and other employees of the Commission
and the number of such officers and employees shall be such as may be
prescribed.".
18. Duties of Commission.—Subject to the provisions of this Act, it shall be the duty of the Commission to eliminate practices having adverse effect on competition, promote and sustain competition, protect the interests of consumers, and ensure freedom of trade carried on by other participants, in markets in India: Provided that the Commission may, for the purpose of discharging its duties or performing its functions under this Act, enter into any memorandum or arrangement, with the prior approval of the Central Government, with any agency of any foreign country.
19. Inquiry into certain agreements and dominant position of enterprise.—
(1) The Commission may inquire into any alleged contravention of the
provisions contained in sub-section (1) of section 3 or sub-section (1) of
section 4 either on its own motion or on—
(a) receipt of a complaint, accompanied by such fee as may be determined by
regulations, from any person, consumer or their association or trade
association; or
(b) a reference made to it by the Central Government or a State Government or
a statutory authority.
(2) Without prejudice to the provisions contained in sub-section (1), the
powers and functions of the Commission shall include the powers and functions
specified in sub-sections (3) to (7).
(3) The Commission shall, while determining whether an agreement has an
appreciable adverse effect on competition under section 3, have due regard to
all or any of the following factors, namely:—
(a) creation of barriers to new entrants in the market;
(b) driving existing competitors out of the market;
(c) foreclosure of competition by hindering entry into the market;
(d) accrual of benefits to consumers;
(e) improvements in production or distribution of goods or provision of
services;
(f) promotion of technical, scientific and economic development by means of
production or distribution of goods or provision of services.
(4) The Commission shall, while inquiring whether an enterprise enjoys a
dominant position or not under section 4, have due regard to all or any of the
following factors, namely:—
(a) market share of the enterprise;
(b) size and resources of the enterprise;
(c) size and importance of the competitors;
(d) economic power of the enterprise including commercial advantages over
competitors;
(e) vertical integration of the enterprises or sale or service network of such
enterprises;
(f) dependence of consumers on the enterprise;
(g) monopoly or dominant position whether acquired as a result of any statute
or by virtue of being a Government company or a public sector undertaking or
otherwise;
(h) entry barriers including barriers such as regulatory barriers, financial
risk, high capital cost of entry, marketing entry barriers, technical entry
barriers, economies of scale, high cost of substitutable goods or service for
consumers;
(i) countervailing buying power;
(j) market structure and size of market;
(k) social obligations and social costs;
(l) relative advantage, by way of the contribution to the economic
development, by the enterprise enjoying a dominant position having or likely
to have appreciable adverse effect on competition;
(m) any other factor which the Commission may consider relevant for the
inquiry.
(5) For determining whether a market constitutes a “relevant market” for the
purposes of this Act, the Commission shall have due regard to the “relevant
geographic market” and “relevant product market”.
(6) The Commission shall, while determining the “relevant geographic market”,
have due regard to all or any of the following factors, namely:—
(a) regulatory trade barriers;
(b) local specification requirements;
(c) national procurement policies;
(d) adequate distribution facilities;
(e) transport costs;
(f) language;
(g) consumer preferences;
(h) need for secure or regular supplies or rapid after-sales services.
(7) The Commission shall, while determining the “relevant product market”,
have due regard to all or any of the following factors, namely:—
(a) physical characteristics or end-use of goods;
(b) price of goods or service;
(c) consumer preferences;
(d) exclusion of in-house production;
(e) existence of specialised producers;
(f) classification of industrial products.
20. Inquiry into combination by Commission.—
(1) The Commission may, upon its own knowledge or information relating to
acquisition referred to in clause
(a) of section 5 or acquiring of control referred to in clause (b) of section
5 or merger or amalgamation referred in clause (c) of that section, inquire
into whether such a combination has caused or is likely to cause an
appreciable adverse effect on competition in India: Provided that the
Commission shall not initiate any inquiry under this sub-section after the
expiry of one year from the date on which such combination has taken effect.
(2) The Commission shall, on receipt of a notice under sub-section (2) of
section 6 or upon receipt of a reference under sub-section (2) of section 21,
inquire whether a combination referred to in that notice or reference has
caused or is likely to cause an appreciable adverse effect on competition in
India.
(3) Notwithstanding anything contained in section 5, the Central Government
shall, on the expiry of a period of two years from the date of commencement of
this Act and thereafter every two years, in consultation with the Commission,
by notification, enhance or reduce, on the basis of the wholesale price index
or fluctuations in exchange rate of rupee or foreign currencies, the value of
assets or the value of turnover, for the purposes of that section.
(4) For the purposes of determining whether a combination would have the
effect of or is likely to have an appreciable adverse effect on competition in
the relevant market, the Commission shall have due regard to all or any of the
following factors, namely:—
(a) actual and potential level of competition through imports in the market;
(b) extent of barriers to entry into the market;
(c) level of combination in the market;
(d) degree of countervailing power in the market;
(e) likelihood that the combination would result in the parties to the
combination being able to significantly and sustainably increase prices or
profit margins;
(f) extent of effective competition likely to sustain in a market;
(g) extent to which substitutes are available or are likely to be available in
the market;
(h) market share, in the relevant market, of the persons or enterprise in a
combination, individually and as a combination;
(i) likelihood that the combination would result in the removal of a vigorous
and effective competitor or competitors in the market;
(j) nature and extent of vertical integration in the market;
(k) possibility of a failing business;
(l) nature and extent of innovation;
(m) relative advantage, by way of the contribution to the economic
development, by any combination having or likely to have appreciable adverse
effect on competition;
(n) whether the benefits of the combination outweigh the adverse impact of the
combination, if any.
21. Reference by statutory authority.—
(1) Where in the course of a proceeding before any statutory authority an
issue is raised by any party that any decision which such statutory authority
has taken or proposes to take, is or would be, contrary to any of the
provisions of this Act, then such statutory authority may make a reference in
respect of such issue to the Commission.
(2) On receipt of a reference under sub-section (1), the Commission shall,
after hearing the parties to the proceedings, give its opinion to such
statutory authority which shall thereafter pass such order on the issues
referred to in that sub-section as it deems fit: Provided that the Commission
shall give its opinion under this section within sixty days of receipt of such
reference.
12 [ 22 Meetings of Commission. —
(1) The Commission shall meet at such times and such places, and shall observe
such rules of procedure in regard to the transaction of business at its
meetings as may be provided by regulations.
(2) The Chairperson, if for any reason, is unable to attend a meeting of the
Commission, the senior-most Member present at the meeting, shall preside at
the meeting.
(3) All questions which come up before any meeting of the Commission shall be
decided by a majority of the Members present and voting, and in the event of
an equality of votes, the Chairperson or in his absence, the Member presiding,
shall have a second or casting vote: Provided that the quorum for such meeting
shall be three Members.]" 22. Benches of Commission. —(1) The jurisdiction,
powers and authority of the Commission may be exercised by Benches thereof.
(2) The Benches shall be constituted by the Chairperson and each Bench shall
consist of not less than two Members.
(3) Every Bench shall consist of at least one Judicial Member. Explanation
.—For the purposes of this sub-section, “Judicial Member” means a Member who
is, or has been, or is qualified to be, a Judge of a High Court.
(4) The Bench over which the Chairperson presides shall be the Principal Bench
and the other Benches shall be known as the Additional Benches.
(5) There shall be constituted by the Chairperson one or more Benches to be
called the Mergers Bench or Mergers Benches, as the case may be, exclusively
to deal with matters referred to in sections 5 and 6.
(6) The places at which the Principal Bench, other Additional Bench or Mergers
Bench shall ordinarily sit shall be such as the Central Government may, by
notification, specify.".
23. Distribution of business of Commission amongst Benches.—
(1) Where any Benches are constituted, the Chairperson may, from time to time,
by order, make provisions as to the distribution of the business of the
Commission amongst the Benches and specify the matters, which may be dealt
with by each Bench.
(2) If any question arises as to whether any matter falls within the purview
of the business allocated to a Bench, the decision of the Chairperson thereon
shall be final.
(3) The Chairperson, may—
(i) transfer a Member from one Bench to another Bench; or
(ii) authorise the Members of one Bench to discharge also the functions of the
Members of other Bench: Provided that the Chairperson shall transfer, with the
prior approval of the Central Government, a Member from one Bench situated in
one city to another Bench situated in another city.
(4) The Chairperson may, for the purpose of securing that any case or matter
which, having regard to the nature of the questions involved, requires or is
required in his opinion or under the rules made by the Central Government in
this behalf, to be decided by a Bench composed of more than two Members, issue
such general or special orders as he may deem fit.
13 [ 24 Procedure for deciding a case where Members of a Bench differ in
opinion. —[Repealed by the Competition (Amendment) Act, 2007, sec. 18]]. "24.
Procedure for deciding a case where Members of a Bench differ in opinion.—If
the Members of a Bench differ in opinion on any point, they shall state the
point or points on which they differ, and make a reference to the Chairperson
who shall either hear the point or points himself or refer the case for
hearing on such point or points by one or more of the other Members and such
point or points shall be decided according to the opinion of the majority of
the Members who have heard the case, including those who first heard it.".
14 [ 25 Jurisdiction of Bench. —[Repealed by the Competition (Amendment) Act,
2007, sec. 18]].
25 Jurisdiction of Bench. —An inquiry shall be initiated or a complaint be
instituted or a reference be made under this Act before a Bench within the
local limits of whose jurisdiction—
(a) the respondent, or each of the respondents, where there are more than one,
at the time of the initiation of inquiry or institution of the complaint or
making of reference, as the case may be, actually and voluntarily resides, or
carries on business, or personally works for gain; or (b) any of the
respondents, where there are more than one, at the time of the initiation of
the inquiry or institution of complaint or making of reference, as the case
may be, actually and voluntarily resides or carries on business or personally
works for gain provided that in such case either the leave of the Bench is
given, or the respondents who do not reside, or carry on business, or
personally works for gain, as aforesaid, acquiesce in such institution; or (c)
the cause of action, wholly or in part, arises. Explanation.—A respondent,
being a person referred to in sub-clause (iii) or sub-clause (vi) or sub-
clause (vii) or sub-clause (viii) or clause (l) of section 2, shall be deemed
to carry on business at its sole or principal place of business in India or at
its registered office in India or where it has also a subordinate office at
such place.
26. Procedure for inquiry on complaints under section 19.—
(1) On receipt of a complaint or a reference from the Central Government or a
State Government or a statutory authority or on its own knowledge or
information, under section 19, if the Commission is of the opinion that there
exists a prima facie case, it shall direct the Director General to cause an
investigation to be made into the matter.
(2) The Director General shall, on receipt of direction under sub-section (1),
submit a report on his findings within such period as may be specified by the
Commission.
(3) Where on receipt of a complaint under clause (a) of sub-section (1) of
section 19, the Commission is of the opinion that there exists no prima facie
case, it shall dismiss the complaint and may pass such orders as it deems fit,
including imposition of costs, if necessary.
(4) The Commission shall forward a copy of the report referred to in sub-
section (2) to the parties concerned or to the Central Government or the State
Government or the statutory authority, as the case may be.
(5) If the report of the Director General relates on a complaint and such
report recommends that there is no contravention of any of the provisions of
this Act, the complainant shall be given an opportunity to rebut the findings
of the Director-General.
(6) If, after hearing the complainant, the Commission agrees with the
recommendation of the Director General, it shall dismiss the complaint.
(7) If, after hearing the complainant, the Commission is of the opinion that
further inquiry is called for, it shall direct the complainant to proceed with
the complaint.
(8) If the report of the Director General relates on a reference made under
sub-section (1) and such report recommends that there is no contravention of
the provisions of this Act, the Commission shall invite comments of the
Central Government or the State Government or the statutory authority, as the
case may be, on such report and on receipt of such comments, the Commission
shall return the reference if there is no prima facie case or proceed with the
reference as a complaint if there is a prima facie case.
(9) If the report of the Director General referred to in sub-section (2)
recommends that there is contravention of any of the provisions of this Act,
and the Commission is of the opinion that further inquiry is called for, it
shall inquire into such contravention in accordance with the provisions of
this Act.
27. Orders by Commission after inquiry into agreements or abuse of dominant position.—Where after inquiry the Commission finds that any agreement referred to in section 3 or action of an enterprise in a dominant position, is in contravention of section 3 or section 4, as the case may be, it may pass all or any of the following orders, namely:—
(a) direct any enterprise or association of enterprises or person or
association of persons, as the case may be, involved in such agreement, or
abuse of dominant position, to discontinue and not to re-enter such agreement
or discontinue such abuse of dominant position, as the case may be;
(b) impose such penalty, as it may deem fit which shall be not more than ten
per cent. of the average of the turnover for the last three preceding
financial years, upon each of such person or enterprises which are parties to
such agreements or abuse: Provided that in case any agreement referred to in
section 3 has been entered into by any cartel, the Commission shall impose
upon each producer, seller, distributor, trader or service provider included
in that cartel, a penalty equivalent to three times of the amount of profits
made out of such agreement by the cartel or ten per cent. of the average of
the turnover of the cartel for the last preceding three financial years,
whichever is higher;
(c) award compensation to parties in accordance with the provisions contained
in section 34;
(d) direct that the agreements shall stand modified to the extent and in the
manner as may be specified in the order by the Commission;
(e) direct the enterprises concerned to abide by such other orders as the
Commission may pass and comply with the directions, including payment of
costs, if any;
(f) recommend to the Central Government for the division of an enterprise
enjoying dominant position;
(g) pass such other order as it may deem fit.
28. Division of enterprise enjoying dominant position.—
(1) The Central Government, on recommendation under clause (f) of section 27,
may, notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in
force, by order in writing, direct division of an enterprise enjoying dominant
position to ensure that such enterprise does not abuse its dominant position.
(2) In particular, and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing
powers, the order referred to in sub-section (1) may provide for all or any of
the following matters, namely:—
(a) the transfer or vesting of property, rights, liabilities or obligations;
(b) the adjustment of contracts either by discharge or reduction of any
liability or obligation or otherwise;
(c) the creation, allotment, surrender or cancellation of any shares, stocks
or securities;
(d) the payment of compensation to any person who suffered any loss due to
dominant position of such enterprise;
(e) the formation or winding up of an enterprise or the amendment of the
memorandum of association or articles of association or any other instruments
regulating the business of any enterprise;
(f) the extent to which, and the circumstances in which, provisions of the
order affecting an enterprise may be altered by the enterprise and the
registration thereof;
(g) any other matter which may be necessary to give effect to the division of
the enterprise.
(3) Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in
force or in any contract or in any memorandum or articles of association, an
officer of a company who ceases to hold office as such in consequence of the
division of an enterprise shall not be entitled to claim any compensation for
such cesser.
29. Procedure for investigation of combinations.—
(1) Where the Commission is of the opinion that a combination is likely to
cause, or has caused an appreciable adverse effect on competition within the
relevant market in India, it shall issue a notice to show cause to the parties
to combination calling upon them to respond within thirty days of the receipt
of the notice, as to why investigation in respect of such combination should
not be conducted.
(2) The Commission, if it is prima facie of the opinion that the combination
has, or is likely to have, an appreciable adverse effect on competition, it
shall, within seven working days from the date of receipt of the response of
the parties to the combination, direct the parties to the said combination to
publish details of the combination within ten working days of such direction,
in such manner, as it thinks appropriate, for bringing the combination to the
knowledge or information of the public and persons affected or likely to be
affected by such combination.
(3) The Commission may invite any person or member of the public, affected or
likely to be affected by the said combination, to file his written objections,
if any, before the Commission within fifteen working days from the date on
which the details of the combination were published under sub-section (2).
(4) The Commission may, within fifteen working days from the expiry of the
period specified in sub-section (3), call for such additional or other
information as it may deem fit from the parties to the said combination.
(5) The additional or other information called for by the Commission shall be
furnished by the parties referred to in sub-section (4) within fifteen days
from the expiry of the period specified in sub-section (4).
(6) After receipt of all information and within a period of forty-five working
days from the expiry of the period specified in sub-section (5), the
Commission shall proceed to deal with the case in accordance with the
provisions contained in section 31.
30. Inquiry into disclosures under sub-section (2) of section 6.—Where any person or enterprise has given a notice under sub-section (2) of section 6, the Commission shall inquire—
(a) whether the disclosure made in the notice is correct;
(b) whether the combination has, or is likely to have, an appreciable adverse
effect on competition.
31. Orders of Commission on certain combinations.—
(1) Where the Commission is of the opinion that any combination does not, or
is not likely to, have an appreciable adverse effect on competition, it shall,
by order, approve that combination including the combination in respect of
which a notice has been given under sub-section (2) of section 6.
(2) Where the Commission is of the opinion that the combination has, or is
likely to have, an appreciable adverse effect on competition, it shall direct
that the combination shall not take effect.
(3) Where the Commission is of the opinion that the combination has, or is
likely to have, an appreciable adverse effect on competition but such adverse
effect can be eliminated by suitable modification to such combination, it may
propose appropriate modification to the combination, to the parties to such
combination.
(4) The parties, who accept the modification proposed by the Commission under
sub-section (3), shall carry out such modification within the period specified
by the Commission.
(5) If the parties to the combination, who have accepted the modification
under sub-section (4), fail to carry out the modification within the period
specified by the Commission, such combination shall be deemed to have an
appreciable adverse effect on competition and the Commission shall deal with
such combination in accordance with the provisions of this Act.
(6) If the parties to the combination do not accept the modification proposed
by the Commission under sub-section (3), such parties may, within thirty
working days of the modification proposed by the Commission, submit amendment
to the modification proposed by the Commission under that sub-section.
(7) If the Commission agrees with the amendment submitted by the parties under
sub-section (6), it shall, by order, approve the combination.
(8) If the Commission does not accept the amendment submitted under sub-
section (6), then, the parties shall be allowed a further period of thirty
working days within which such parties shall accept the modification proposed
by the Commission under sub-section (3).
(9) If the parties fail to accept the modification proposed by the Commission
within thirty working days referred to in sub-section (6) or within a further
period of thirty working days referred to in sub-section (8), the combination
shall be deemed to have an appreciable adverse effect on competition and be
dealt with in accordance with the provisions of this Act.
(10) Where the Commission has directed under sub-section (2) that the
combination shall not take effect or the combination is deemed to have an
appreciable adverse effect on competition under sub-section (9), then, without
prejudice to any penalty which may be imposed or any prosecution which may be
initiated under this Act, the Commission may order that—
(a) the acquisition referred to in clause (a) of section 5; or
(b) the acquiring of control referred to in clause (b) of section 5; or
(c) the merger or amalgamation referred to in clause (c) of section 5, shall
not be given effect to: Provided that the Commission may, if it considers
appropriate, frame a scheme to implement its order under this sub-section.
(11) If the Commission does not, on the expiry of a period of ninety working
days from the date of publication referred to in sub-section (2) of section
29, pass an order or issue direction in accordance with the provisions of sub-
section (1) or sub-section (2) or sub-section (7), the combination shall be
deemed to have been approved by the Commission. Explanation.—For the purposes
of determining the period of ninety working days specified in this sub-
section, the period of thirty working days specified in sub-section (6) and a
further period of thirty working days specified in sub-section (8) shall be
excluded.
(12) Where any extension of time is sought by the parties to the combination,
the period of ninety working days shall be reckoned after deducting the
extended time granted at the request of the parties.
(13) Where the Commission has ordered a combination to be void, the
acquisition or acquiring of control or merger or amalgamation referred to in
section 5, shall be dealt with by the authorities under any other law for the
time being in force as if such acquisition or acquiring of control or merger
or amalgamation had not taken place and the parties to the combination shall
be dealt with accordingly.
(14) Nothing contained in this Chapter shall affect any proceeding initiated
or which may be initiated under any other law for the time being in force.
32. Acts taking place outside India but having an effect on competition in India.—The Commission shall, notwithstanding that,—
(a) an agreement referred to in section 3 has been entered into outside India;
or
(b) any party to such agreement is outside India; or
(c) any enterprise abusing the dominant position is outside India; or
(d) a combination has taken place outside India; or
(e) any party to combination is outside India; or"
(f) any other matter or practice or action arising out of such agreement or
dominant position or combination is outside India, have power to inquire into
such agreement or abuse of dominant position or combination if such agreement
or dominant position or combination has, or is likely to have, an appreciable
adverse effect on competition in the relevant market in India.
33. Power to grant interim relief.—
(1) Where during an inquiry before the Commission, it is proved to the
satisfaction of the Commission, by affidavit or otherwise, that an act in
contravention of sub-section (1) of section 3 or sub-section (1) of section 4
or section 6 has been committed and continues to be committed or that such act
is about to be committed, the Commission may, by order, grant a temporary
injunction restraining any party from carrying on such act until the
conclusion of such inquiry or until further orders, without giving notice to
the opposite party, where it deems it necessary.
(2) Where during the inquiry before the Commission it is proved to the
satisfaction of the Commission by affidavit or otherwise that import of any
goods is likely to contravene sub-section (1) of section 3 or sub-section (1)
of section 4 or section 6, it may, by order, grant a temporary injunction
restraining any party from importing such goods until the conclusion of such
inquiry or until further orders, without giving notice to the opposite party,
where it deems it necessary and a copy of such order granting temporary
injunction shall be sent to the concerned authorities.
(3) The provisions of rules 2A to 5 (both inclusive) of Order XXXIX of the
First Schedule to the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908), shall, as far
as may be, apply to a temporary injunction issued by the Commission under this
Act, as they apply to a temporary injunction issued by a civil court, and any
reference in any such rule to a suit shall be construed as a reference to any
inquiry before the Commission.
15 [ 34 Power to award compensation. —[Repealed by the Competition (Amendment)
Act, 2007, sec. 27]]. "34. Power to award compensation. —
(1) Without prejudice to any other provisions contained in this Act, any
person may make an application to the Commission for an order for the recovery
of compensation from any enterprise for any loss or damage shown to have been
suffered, by such person as a result of any contravention of the provisions of
Chapter II, having been committed by such enterprise. (2) The Commission may,
after an inquiry made into the allegations mentioned in the application made
under sub-section (1), pass an order directing the enterprise to make payment
to the applicant, of the amount determined by it as realisable from the
enterprise as compensation for the loss or damage caused to the applicant as a
result of any contravention of the provisions of Chapter II having been
committed by such enterprise. (3) Where any loss or damage referred to sub-
section (1) is caused to numerous persons having the same interest, one or
more of such persons may, with the permission of the Commission, make an
application under that sub-section for and on behalf of, or for the benefit
of, the persons so interested, and thereupon, the provisions of rule 8 of
Order 1 of the First Schedule to the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (5 of
1908), shall apply subject to the modification that every reference therein to
a suit or decree shall be construed as a reference to the application before
the Commission and the order of the Commission thereon.".
35. Appearance before Commission.—A complainant or defendant or the Director General may either appear in person or authorise one or more chartered accountants or company secretaries, or cost accountants or legal practitioners or any of his or its officers to present his or its case before the Commission. Explanation.—For the purposes of this section,—
(a) "chartered accountant" means a chartered accountant as defined in clause
(b) of sub-section (1) of section 2 of the Chartered Accountants Act, 1949 (38
of 1949) and who has obtained a certificate of practice under sub-section (1)
of section 6 of that Act;
(b) "company secretary" means a company secretary as defined in clause (c) of
sub-section (1) of section 2 of the Company Secretaries Act, 1980 (56 of 1980)
and who has obtained a certificate of practice under sub-section (1) of
section 6 of that Act;
(c) "cost accountant" means a cost accountant as defined in clause (b) of sub-
section (1) of section 2 of the Cost and Works Accountants Act, 1959 (23 of
1959) and who has obtained a certificate of practice under sub-section (1) of
section 6 of that Act;
(d) “legal practitioner” means an advocate, vakil or an attorney of any High
Court, and includes a pleader in practice.
16 [ 36 Power of Commission to regulate its own procedure. —
(1) In the discharge of its functions, the Commission shall be guided by the
principles of natural justice and, subject to the other provisions of this Act
and of any rules made by the Central Government, the Commission shall have the
powers to regulate its own procedure.
(2) The Commission shall have, for the purposes of discharging its functions
under this Act, the same powers as are vested in a Civil Court under the Code
of Civil Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908), while trying a suit, in respect of the
following matters, namely:—
(a) summoning and enforcing the attendance of any person and examining him on
oath;
(b) requiring the discovery and production of documents;
(c) receiving evidence on affidavit;
(d) issuing commissions for the examination of witnesses or documents;
(e) requisitioning, subject to the provisions of sections 123 and 124 of the
Indian Evidence Act, 1872 (1 of 1972), any public record or document or copy
of such record or document from any office.
(3) The Commission may call upon such experts, from the fields of economics,
commerce, accountancy, international trade or from any other discipline as it
deems necessary, to assist the Commission in the conduct of any inquiry by it.
(4) The Commission may direct any person—
(a) to produce before the Director-General or the Secretary or an officer
authorised by it, such books or other documents in the custody or under the
control of such person so directed as may be specified or described in the
direction, being documents relating to any trade, the examination of which may
be required for the purposes of this Act;
(b) to furnish to the Director-General or the Secretary or any other officer
authorised by it, as respects the trade or such other information as may be in
his possession in relation to the trade carried on by such person as may be
required for the purposes of this Act.]
" 36. Power of Commission to regulate its own procedure. —(1) The Commission
shall not be bound by the procedure laid down by the Code of Civil Procedure,
1908 (5 of 1908), but shall be guided by the principles of natural justice
and, subject to the other provisions of this Act and of any rules made by the
Central Government, the Commission shall have powers to regulate its own
procedure including the places at which they shall have their sittings,
duration of oral hearings when granted, and times of its inquiry.
(2) The Commission shall have, for the purposes of discharging its functions
under this Act, the same powers as are vested in a civil court under the Code
of Civil Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908), while trying a suit, in respect of the
following matters, namely:—
(a) summoning and enforcing the attendance of any person and examining him on
oath;
(b) requiring the discovery and production of documents;
(c) receiving evidence on affidavits;
(d) issuing commissions for the examination of witnesses or documents;
(e) subject to the provisions of sections 123 and 124 of the Indian Evidence
Act, 1872 (1 of 1872), requisitioning any public record or document or copy of
such record or document from any office;
(f) dismissing an application in default or deciding it ex parte;
(g) any other matter which may be prescribed.
(3) Every proceeding before the Commission shall be deemed to be a judicial
proceeding within the meaning of sections 193 and 228 and for the purposes of
section 196 of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860) and the Commission shall be
deemed to be a civil court for the purposes of section 195 and Chapter XXVI of
the Code of Criminal Procedure 1973 ( 2 of 1974).
(4) The Commission may call upon such experts, from the fields of economics,
commerce, accountancy, international trade or from any other discipline as it
deems necessary, to assist the Commission in the conduct of any inquiry or
proceeding before it.
(5) The Commission may direct any person—
(a) to produce before the Director-General or the Registrar or an officer
authorised by it, such books, accounts or other documents in the custody or
under the control of such person so directed as may be specified or described
in the direction, being documents relating to any trade, the examination of
which may be required for the purposes of this Act;
(b) to furnish to the Director-General or the Registrar or any officer
authorised by it, as respects the trade or such other information as may be in
his possession in relation to the trade carried on by such person, as may be
required for the purposes of this Act.
(6) If the Commission is of the opinion that any agreement referred to in
section 3 or abuse of dominant position referred to in section 4 or the
combination referred to in section 5 has caused or is likely to cause an
appreciable adverse effect on competition in the relevant market in India and
it is necessary to protect, without further delay, the interests of consumers
and other market participants in India, it may conduct an inquiry or
adjudicate upon any matter under this Act after giving a reasonable oral
hearing to the parties concerned.".
17 [ 37 Review of orders of Commission. —[Repealed by the Competition
(Amendment) Act, 2007, sec. 30]]. "37. Review of orders of Commission. —Any
person aggrieved by an order of the Commission from which an appeal is allowed
by this Act but no appeal has been preferred, may, within thirty days from the
date of the order, apply to the Commission for review of its order and the
Commission may make such order thereon as it thinks fit: Provided that the
Commission may entertain a review application after the expiry of the said
period of thirty days, if it is satisfied that the applicant was prevented by
sufficient cause from preferring the application in time: Provided further,
that no order shall be modified or set aside without giving an opportunity of
being heard to the person in whose favour the order is given and the Director
General where he was a party to the proceedings.".
38. Rectification of orders.—
(1) With a view to rectifying any mistake apparent from the record, the
Commission may amend any order passed by it under the provisions of this Act.
(2) Subject to the other provisions of this Act, the Commission may make—
(a) an amendment under sub-section (1) of its own motion;
(b) an amendment for rectifying any such mistake which has been brought to its
notice by any party to the order. Explanation.—For the removal of doubts, it
is hereby declared that the Commission shall not, while rectifying any mistake
apparent from record, amend substantive part of its order passed under the
provisions of this Act.
39. Execution of orders of Commission.—Every order passed by the Commission under this Act shall be enforced by the Commission in the same manner as if it were a decree or order made by a High Court or the principal civil court in a suit pending therein and it shall be lawful for the Commission to send, in the event of its inability to execute it, such order to the High Court or the principal civil court, as the case may be, within the local limits of whose jurisdiction,—
(a) in the case of an order against a person referred to in sub-clause (iii)
or sub-clause (vi) or sub-clause (vii) of clause (l) of section 2, the
registered office or the sole or principal place of business of the person in
India or where the person has also a subordinate office, that subordinate
office, is situated;
(b) in the case of an order against any other person, the place where the
person concerned voluntarily resides or carries on business or personally
works for gain, is situated, and thereupon the court to which the order is so
sent shall execute the order as if it were a decree or order sent to it for
execution.
18 [ 40 Appeal. —[Repealed by the Competition (Amendment) Act, 2007, sec.
32]]. "40. Appeal. —Any person aggrieved by any decision or order of the
Commission may file an appeal to the Supreme Court within sixty days from the
date of communication of the decision or order of the Commission to him on one
or more of the grounds specified in section 100 of the Code of Civil
Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908): Provided that the Supreme Court may, if it is
satisfied that the appellant was prevented by sufficient cause from filing the
appeal within the said period, allow it to be filed within a further period
not exceeding sixty days: Provided further that no appeal shall lie against
any decision or order of the Commission made with the consent of the
parties.".
41. Director General to investigate contraventions.—
(1) The Director General shall, when so directed by the Commission, assist the
Commission in investigating into any contravention of the provisions of this
Act or any rules or regulations made thereunder.
(2) The Director General shall have all the powers as are conferred upon the
Commission under sub-section (2) of section 36.
(3) Without prejudice to the provisions of sub-section (2), sections 240 and
240A of the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956), so far as may be, shall apply to
an investigation made by the Director General or any other person
investigating under his authority, as they apply to an inspector appointed
under that Act.
42. Contravention of orders of Commission.—
(1) Without prejudice to the provisions of this Act, if any person
contravenes, without any reasonable ground, any order of the Commission, or
any condition or restriction subject to which any approval, sanction,
direction or exemption in relation to any matter has been accorded, given,
made or granted under this Act or fails to pay the penalty imposed under this
Act, he shall be liable to be detained in civil prison for a term which may
extend to one year, unless in the meantime the Commission directs his release
and he shall also be liable to a penalty not exceeding rupees ten lakh.
(2) The Commission may, while making an order under this Act, issue such
directions to any person or authority, not inconsistent with this Act, as it
thinks necessary or desirable, for the proper implementation or execution of
the order, and any person who commits breach of, or fails to comply with, any
obligation imposed on him under such direction, may be ordered by the
Commission to be detained in civil prison for a term not exceeding one year
unless in the meantime the Commission directs his release and he shall also be
liable to a penalty not exceeding rupees ten lakh.
19 [ 42A Compensation in case of contravention of orders of Commission.
—Without prejudice to the provisions of this Act, any person may make an
application to the Appellate Tribunal for an order for the recovery of
compensation from any enterprise for any loss or damage shown to have been
suffered, by such person as a result of the said enterprise violating
directions issued by the Commission or contravening, without any reasonable
ground, any decision or order of the Commission issued under sections 27, 28,
31, 32 and 33 or any condition or restriction subject to which any approval,
sanction, direction or exemption in relation to any matter has been accorded,
given, made or granted under this Act or delaying in carrying out such orders
or directions of the Commission.]
43. Penalty for failure to comply with directions of Commission and Director General.—If any person fails to comply with a direction given by—
(a) the Commission under sub-section (5) of section 36; or
(b) the Director General while exercising powers referred to in sub-section
(2) of section 41, the Commission shall impose on such person a penalty of
rupees one lakh for each day during which such failure continues.
20 [ 43A Power to impose penalty for non-furnishing of information on
combinations. —If any person or enterprise who fails to give notice to the
Commission under sub-section (2) of section 6, the Commission shall impose on
such person or enterprise a penalty which may extend to one per cent. of the
total turnover or the assets, whichever is higher, of such a combination.]
44. Penalty for making false statement or omission to furnish material information.—If any person, being a party to a combination,—
(a) makes a statement which is false in any material particular, or knowing it
to be false; or
(b) omits to state any material particular knowing it to be material, such
person shall be liable to a penalty which shall not be less than rupees fifty
lakh but which may extend to rupees one crore, as may be determined by the
Commission.
45. Penalty for offences in relation to furnishing of information.—
(1) Without prejudice to the provisions of section 44, if any person, who
furnishes or is required to furnish under this Act any particulars, documents
or any information,—
(a) makes any statement or furnishes any document which he knows or has reason
to believe to be false in any material particular; or
(b) omits to state any material fact knowing it to be material; or
(c) wilfully alters, suppresses or destroys any document which is required to
be furnished as aforesaid, the Commission shall impose on such person a
penalty which may extend to rupees ten lakh.
(2) Without prejudice to the provisions of sub-section (1), the Commission may
also pass such other order as it deems fit.
46. Power to impose lesser penalty.—The Commission may, if it is satisfied that any producer, seller, distributor, trader or service provider included in any cartel, which is alleged to have violated section 3, has made a full and true disclosure in respect of the alleged violations and such disclosure is vital, impose upon such producer, seller, distributor, trader or service provider a lesser penalty as it may deem fit, than leviable under this Act or the rules or the regulations: Provided that lesser penalty shall not be imposed by the Commission in cases where proceedings for the violation of any of the provisions of this Act or the rules or the regulations have been instituted or any investigation has been directed to be made under section 26 before making of such disclosure: Provided further that lesser penalty shall be imposed by the Commission only in respect of a producer, seller, distributor, trader or service provider included in the cartel, who first made the full, true and vital disclosures under this section: Provided also that the Commission may, if it is satisfied that such producer, seller, distributor, trader or service provider included in the cartel had in the course of proceedings,—
(a) not complied with the condition on which the lesser penalty was imposed by
the Commission; or
(b) had given false evidence; or
(c) the disclosure made is not vital, and thereupon such producer, seller,
distributor, trader or service provider may be tried for the offence with
respect to which the lesser penalty was imposed and shall also be liable to
the imposition of penalty to which such person have been liable, had lesser
penalty not been imposed.
47. Crediting sums realised by way of penalties to Consolidated Fund of India.—All sums realised by way of penalties under this Act shall be credited to the Consolidated Fund of India.
48. Contravention by companies.—
(1) Where a person committing contravention of any of the provisions of this
Act or of any rule, regulation, order made or direction issued thereunder is a
company, every person who, at the time the contravention was committed, was in
charge of, and was responsible to the company for the conduct of the business
of the company, as well as the company, shall be deemed to be guilty of the
contravention and shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished
accordingly: Provided that nothing contained in this sub-section shall render
any such person liable to any punishment if he proves that the contravention
was committed without his knowledge or that he had exercised all due diligence
to prevent the commission of such contravention.
(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1), where a
contravention of any of the provisions of this Act, or of any rule,
regulation, order made or direction issued thereunder has been committed by a
company and it is proved that the contravention has taken place with the
consent or connivance of, or is attributable to any neglect on the part of,
any director, manager, secretary or other officer of the company, such
director, manager, secretary or other officer shall also be deemed to be
guilty of that contravention and shall be liable to be proceeded against and
punished accordingly. Explanation.—For the purposes of this section,—
(a) "company" means a body corporate and includes a firm or other association
of individuals; and
(b) “director”, in relation to a firm, means a partner in the firm.
49 Competition advocacy .— 21 [
(1) The Central Government may, in formulating a policy on competition
(including review of laws related to competition) or on any other matter, and
a State Government may, in formulating a policy on competition or on any other
matter, as the case may be, make a reference to the Commission for its opinion
on possible effect of such policy on competition and on the receipt of such a
reference, the Commission shall, within sixty days of making such reference,
give its opinion to the Central Government, or the State Government, as the
case may be, which may thereafter take further action as it deems fit.]
(2) The opinion given by the Commission under sub-section (1) shall not be
binding upon the Central Government 21 [or the State Government, as the case
may be,] in formulating such policy.
(3) The Commission shall take suitable measures 23 [***] for the promotion of
competition advocacy, creating awareness and imparting training about
competition issues. "(1) In formulating a policy on competition (including
review of laws related to competition), the Central Government may make a
reference to the Commission for its opinion on possible effect of such policy
on competition and on receipt of such a reference, the Commission shall,
within sixty days of making such reference, give its opinion to the Central
Government, which may thereafter formulate the policy as it deems fit.".
50. Grants by Central Government.—The Central Government may, after due appropriation made by Parliament by law in this behalf, make to the Commission grants of such sums of money as the Government may think fit for being utilised for the purposes of this Act.
51 Constitution of Fund. —
(1) There shall be constituted a fund to be called the “Competition Fund” and
there shall be credited thereto—
(a) all Government grants received by the Commission; 24 [***]
(c) the fees received under this Act;
(d) the interest accrued on the amounts referred to in 25 [ clauses (a) and
(c)].
(2) The Fund shall be applied for meeting—
(a) the salaries and allowances payable to the Chairperson and other Members
and the administrative expenses including the salaries, allowances and pension
payable to the Director General, Additional, Joint, Deputy or Assistant
Directors General, the Registrar and officers and other employees of the
Commission;
(b) the other expenses of the Commission in connection with the discharge of
its functions and for the purposes of this Act.
(3) The Fund shall be administered by a committee of such Members of the
Commission as may be determined by the Chairperson.
(4) The committee appointed under sub-section (3) shall spend monies out of
the Fund for carrying out the objects for which the Fund has been constituted.
"(b) the monies received as costs from parties to proceedings before the
Commission;".
52 Accounts and audit. —
(1) The Commission shall maintain proper accounts and other relevant records
and prepare an annual statement of accounts in such form as may be prescribed
by the Central Government in consultation with the Comptroller and Auditor-
General of India.
(2) The accounts of the Commission shall be audited by the Comptroller and
Auditor-General of India at such intervals as may be specified by him and any
expenditure incurred in connection with such audit shall be payable by the
Commission to the Comptroller and Auditor-General of India. Explanation. —For
the removal of doubts, it is hereby declared that the orders of the
Commission, being matters appealable to the 26 [ Appellate Tribunal or the
Supreme Court], shall not be subject to audit under this section.
(3) The Comptroller and Auditor-General of India and any other person
appointed by him in connection with the audit of the accounts of the
Commission shall have the same rights, privileges and authority in connection
with such audit as the Comptroller and Auditor-General of India generally has,
in connection with the audit of the Government accounts and, in particular,
shall have the right to demand the production of books, accounts, connected
vouchers and other documents and papers and to inspect any of the offices of
the Commission.
(4) The accounts of the Commission as certified by the Comptroller and
Auditor-General of India or any other person appointed by him in this behalf
together with the audit report thereon shall be forwarded annually to the
Central Government and that Government shall cause the same to be laid before
each House of Parliament.
53. Furnishing of returns, etc., to Central Government.—
(1) The Commission shall furnish to the Central Government at such time and in
such form and manner as may be prescribed or as the Central Government may
direct, such returns and statements and such particulars in regard to any
proposed or existing measures for the promotion of competition advocacy,
creating awareness and imparting training about competition issues, as the
Central Government may, from time to time, require.
(2) The Commission shall prepare once every year, in such form and at such
time as may be prescribed, an annual report giving a true and full account of
its activities during the previous year and copies of the report shall be
forwarded to the Central Government.
(3) A copy of the report received under sub-section (2) shall be laid, as soon
as may be after it is received, before each House of Parliament.
27 [ 28 53A Establishment of Appellate Tribunal. —
(1) The Central Government shall, by notification, establish an Appellate
Tribunal to be known as Competition Appellate Tribunal,—
(a) to hear and dispose of appeals against any direction issued or decision
made or order passed by the Commission under sub-sections (2) and (6) of
section 26, section 27, section 28, section 31, section 32, section 33,
section 38, section 39, section 43, section 43A, section 44, section 45 or
section 46 of this Act;
(b) to adjudicate on claim for compensation that may arise from the findings
of the Commission or the orders of the Appellate Tribunal in an appeal against
any finding of the Commission or under section 42A or under sub-section (2) of
section 53Q of this Act, and pass orders for the recovery of compensation
under section 53N of this Act.
(2) The Headquarter of the Appellate Tribunal shall be at such place as the
Central Government may, by notification, specify.]
29 [ 53B Appeal to Appellate Tribunal. —
(1) The Central Government or the State Government or a local authority or
enterprise or any person, aggrieved by any direction, decision or order
referred to in clause
(a) of section 53A may prefer an appeal to the Appellate Tribunal.
(2) Every appeal under sub-section (1) shall be filed within a period of sixty
days from the date on which a copy of the direction or decision or order made
by the Commission is received by the Central Government or the State
Government or a local authority or enterprise or any person referred to in
that sub-section and it shall be in such form and be accompanied by such fee
as may be prescribed: Provided that the Appellate Tribunal may entertain an
appeal after the expiry of the said period of sixty days if it is satisfied
that there was sufficient cause for not filing it within that period.
(3) On receipt of an appeal under sub-section (1), the Appellate Tribunal may,
after giving the parties to the appeal, an opportunity of being heard, pass
such orders thereon as it thinks fit, confirming, modifying or setting aside
the direction, decision or order appealed against.
(4) The Appellate Tribunal shall send a copy of every order made by it to the
Commission and the parties to the appeal.
(5) The appeal filed before the Appellate Tribunal under sub-section (1) shall
be dealt with by it as expeditiously as possible and endeavour shall be made
by it to dispose of the appeal within six months from the date of receipt of
the appeal. ]
30 [ 31 [ 53C Composition of Appellate Tribunal.— The Appellate Tribunal shall
consist of a Chairperson and not more than two other Members to be appointed
by the Central Government.
32 [ 33 [ 53D Qualifications for appointment of Chairperson and Members of
Appellate Tribunal:-
(1) The Chairperson of the Appellate Tribunal shall be a person, who is, or
has been a Judge of the Supreme Court or the Chief Justice of a High Court.
(2) A Member of the Appellate Tribunal shall be a person of ability, integrity
and standing having special knowledge of, and professional experience of not
less than twenty-five years in, competition matters, including competition law
and policy, international trade, economics, business, commerce, law, finance,
accountancy, management, industry, public affairs, administration or in any
other matter which in the opinion of the Central Government, may be useful to
the Appellate Tribunal.]]
34 [ 35 [ 53E Selection Committee. —
(1) The Chairperson and Members of the Appellate Tribunal shall be appointed
by the Central Government from a panel of names recommended by a Selection
Committee consisting of—
(a) the Chief Justice of India or his nominee.......................
Chairperson;
(b) the Secretary in the Ministry of Corporate Affairs.............. Member;
(c) the Secretary in the Ministry of Law and Justice................ Member.
(2) The term of the Selection Committee and the manner of selection of panel
of names shall be such as may be prescribed.]]
36 [ 37 [ 53F Term of office of Chairperson and Members of Appellate
Tribunal:— The Chairperson or a Member of the Appellate Tribunal shall hold
office as such for a term of five years from the date on which he enters upon
his office, and shall be eligible for re-appointment: Provided that no
Chairperson or other Member of the Appellate Tribunal shall hold office as
such after he has attained,—
(a) in the case of the Chairperson, the age of sixty-eight years;
(b) in the case of any other Member of the Appellate Tribunal, the age of
sixty-five years. ]]
38 [ 39 [ 53G Terms and conditions of service of Chairperson and Members of
Appellate Tribunal. —
(1) The salaries and allowances and other terms and conditions of service of
the Chairperson and other Members of the Appellate Tribunal shall be such as
may be prescribed.
(2) The salaries, allowances and other terms and conditions of service of the
Chairperson and other Members of the Appellate Tribunal shall not be varied to
their disadvantage after their appointment.]]
40 [ 41 [ 53H Vacancies: —If, for any reason other than temporary absence, any
vacancy occurs in the office of the Chairperson or a Member of the Appellate
Tribunal, the Central Government shall appoint another person in accordance
with the provisions of this Act to fill the vacancy and the proceedings may be
continued before the Appellate Tribunal from the stage at which the vacancy is
filled.]]
42 [ 43 [ 53-I Resignation of Chairperson and Members of Appellate Tribunal.
—The Chairperson or a Member of the Appellate Tribunal may, by notice in
writing under his hand addressed to the Central Government, resign his office:
Provided that the Chairperson or a Member of the Appellate Tribunal shall,
unless he is permitted by the Central Government to relinquish his office
sooner, continue to hold office until the expiry of three months from the date
of receipt of such notice or until a person duly appointed as his successor
enters upon his office or until the expiry of his term of office, whichever is
the earliest. ]]
44 [ 45 [ 53J Member of Appellate Tribunal to act as its Chairperson in
certain cases. —
(1) In the event of the occurrence of any vacancy in the office of the
Chairperson of the Appellate Tribunal by reason of his death or resignation,
the senior-most Member of the Appellate Tribunal shall act as the Chairperson
of the Appellate Tribunal until the date on which a new Chairperson appointed
in accordance with the provisions of this Act to fill such vacancy enters upon
his office. (2) When the Chairperson of the Appellate Tribunal is unable to
discharge his functions owing to absence, illness or any other cause, the
senior-most Member or, as the case may be, such one of the Members of the
Appellate Tribunal, as the Central Government may, by notification, authorise
in this behalf, shall discharge the functions of the Chairperson until the
date on which the Chairperson resumes his duties.]]
46 [ 47 [ 53K Removal and suspension of Chairperson and Members of Appellate
Tribunal: —
(1) The Central Government may, in consultation with the Chief Justice of
India, remove from office the Chairperson or any other Member of the Appellate
Tribunal, who—
(a) has been adjudged an insolvent; or
(b) has engaged at any time, during his term of office, in any paid
employment; or
(c) has been convicted of an offence which, in the opinion of the Central
Government, involves moral turpitude; or
(d) has become physically or mentally incapable of acting as such Chairperson
or other Member of the Appellate Tribunal; or
(e) has acquired such financial or other interest as is likely to affect
prejudicially his functions as such Chairperson or Member of the Appellate
Tribunal; or
(f) has so abused his position as to render his continuance in office
prejudicial to the public interest.
(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1), no Chairperson or a
Member of the Appellate Tribunal shall be removed from his office on the
ground specified in clause (e) or clause (f) of sub-section (1) except by an
order made by the Central Government after an inquiry made in this behalf by a
Judge of the Supreme Court in which such Chairperson or Member had been
informed of the charges against him and given a reasonable opportunity of
being heard in respect of those charges.]]
48 [ 49 [ 53L Restriction on employment of Chairperson and other Members of
Appellate Tribunal in certain cases:- The Chairperson and other Members of the
Appellate Tribunal shall not, for a period of two years from the date on which
they cease to hold office, accept any employment in, or connected with the
management or administration of, any enterprise which has been a party to a
proceeding before the Appellate Tribunal under this Act: Provided that nothing
contained in this section shall apply to any employment under the Central
Government or a State Government or local authority or in any statutory
authority or any corporation established by or under any Central, State or
Provincial Act or a Government company as defined in section 617 of the
Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956). ]]
50 [ 51 [ 53M Staff of Appellate Tribunal:-
(1) The Central Government shall provide the Appellate Tribunal with such
officers and other employees as it may think fit.
(2) The officers and other employees of the Appellate Tribunal shall discharge
their functions under the general superintendence and control of the
Chairperson of the Appellate Tribunal.
(3) The salaries and allowances and other conditions of service of the
officers and other employees of the Appellate Tribunal shall be such as may be
prescribed. ]]
52 [ 53N Awarding compensation. —
(1) Without prejudice to any other provisions contained in this Act, the
Central Government or a State Government or a local authority or any
enterprise or any person may make an application to the Appellate Tribunal to
adjudicate on claim for compensation that may arise from the findings of the
Commission or the orders of the Appellate Tribunal in an appeal against any
finding of the Commission or under section 42A or under sub-section (2) of
section 53Q of the Act, and to pass an order for the recovery of compensation
from any enterprise for any loss or damage shown to have been suffered, by the
Central Government or a State Government or a local authority or any
enterprise or any person as a result of any contravention of the provisions of
Chapter II, having been committed by the enterprise.
(2) Every application made under sub-section (1) shall be accompanied by the
findings of the Commission, if any, and also be accompanied with such fees as
may be prescribed.
(3) The Appellate Tribunal may, after an inquiry made into the allegations
mentioned in the application made under sub-section (1), pass an order
directing the enterprise to make payment to the applicant, of the amount
determined by it as realisable from the enterprise as compensation for the
loss or damage caused to the applicant as a result of any contravention of the
provisions of Chapter II having been committed by such enterprise: Provided
that the Appellate Tribunal may obtain the recommendations of the Commission
before passing an order of compensation.
(4) Where any loss or damage referred to in sub-section (1) is caused to
numerous persons having the same interest, one or more of such persons may,
with the permission of the Appellate Tribunal, make an application under that
sub-section for and on behalf of, or for the benefit of, the persons so
interested, and thereupon, the provisions of rule 8 of Order 1 of the First
Schedule to the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908), shall apply subject
to the modification that every reference therein to a suit or decree shall be
construed as a reference to the application before the Appellate Tribunal and
the order of the Appellate Tribunal thereon. Explanation. —For the removal of
doubts, it is hereby declared that—
(a) an application may be made for compensation before the Appellate Tribunal
only after either the Commission or the Appellate Tribunal on appeal under
clause (a) of sub-section (1) of section 53A of the Act, has determined in a
proceeding before it that violation of the provisions of the Act has taken
place, or if provisions of section 42A or sub-section (2) of section 53Q of
the Act are attracted.
(b) enquiry to be conducted under sub-section (3) shall be for the purpose of
determining the eligibility and quantum of compensation due to a person
applying for the same, and not for examining afresh the findings of the
Commission or the Appellate Tribunal on whether any violation of the Act has
taken place.
]
53 [ 53-O Procedure and Powers of Appellate Tribunal. —
(1) The Appellate Tribunal shall not be bound by the procedure laid down in
the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908), but shall be guided by the
principles of natural justice and, subject to the other provisions of this Act
and of any rules made by the Central Government, the Appellate Tribunal shall
have power to regulate its own procedure including the places at which they
shall have their sittings.
(2) The Appellate Tribunal shall have, for the purposes of discharging its
functions under this Act, the same powers as are vested in a civil court under
the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908) while trying a suit in respect
of the following matters, namely:—
(a) summoning and enforcing the attendance of any person and examining him on
oath;
(b) requiring the discovery and production of documents;
(c) receiving evidence on affidavits;
(d) subject to the provisions of sections 123 and 124 of the Indian Evidence
Act, 1872 (1 of 1972), requisitioning any public record or document or copy of
such record or document from any office;
(e) issuing commissions for the examination of witnesses or documents;
(f) reviewing its decisions;
(g) dismissing a representation for default or deciding it ex parte;
(h) setting aside any order of dismissal of any representation for default or
any order passed by it ex parte;
(i) any other matter which may be prescribed. (3) Every proceedings before the
Appellate Tribunal shall be deemed to be judicial proceedings within the
meaning of sections 193 and 228, and for the purposes of section 196, of the
Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860) and the Appellate Tribunal shall be deemed to
be a civil court for the purposes of section 195 and Chapter XXVI of the Code
of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974). ]
54 [ 53P Execution of orders of Appellate Tribunal. —
(1) Every order made by the Appellate Tribunal shall be enforced by it in the
same manner as if it were a decree made by a court in a suit pending therein,
and it shall be lawful for the Appellate Tribunal to send, in case of its
inability to execute such order, to the court within the local limits of whose
jurisdiction,—
(a) in the case of an order against a company, the registered office of the
company is situated; or
(b) in the case of an order against any other person, place where the person
concerned voluntarily resides or carries on business or personally works for
gain, is situated.
(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1), the Appellate
Tribunal may transmit any order made by it to a civil court having local
jurisdiction and such civil court shall execute the order as if it were a
decree made by that court. ]
55 [ 53Q Contravention of orders of Appellate Tribunal. —
(1) Without prejudice to the provisions of this Act, if any person
contravenes, without any reasonable ground, any order of the Appellate
Tribunal, he shall be liable for a penalty of not exceeding rupees one crore
or imprisonment for a term up to three years or with both as the Chief
Metropolitan Magistrate, Delhi may deem fit: Provided that the Chief
Metropolitan Magistrate, Delhi shall not take cognizance of any offence
punishable under this sub-section, save on a complaint made by an officer
authorised by the Appellate Tribunal.
(2) Without prejudice to the provisions of this Act, any person may make an
application to the Appellate Tribunal for an order for the recovery of
compensation from any enterprise for any loss or damage shown to have been
suffered, by such person as a result of the said enterprise contravening,
without any reasonable ground, any order of the Appellate Tribunal or delaying
in carrying out such orders of the Appellate Tribunal. ]
56 [53R. Vacancy in Appellate Tribunal not to invalidate acts or
proceedings.—No act or proceeding of the Appellate Tribunal shall be
questioned or shall be invalid merely on the ground of existence of any
vacancy or defect in the constitution of the Appellate Tribunal. ]
57 [ 53S Right to legal representation. —
(1) A person preferring an appeal to the Appellate Tribunal may either appear
in person or authorise one or more chartered accountants or company
secretaries or cost accountants or legal practitioners or any of its officers
to present his or its case before the Appellate Tribunal.
(2) The Central Government or a State Government or a local authority or any
enterprise preferring an appeal to the Appellate Tribunal may authorise one or
more chartered accountants or company secretaries or cost accountants or legal
practitioners or any of its officers to act as presenting officers and every
person so authorised may present the case with respect to any appeal before
the Appellate Tribunal.
(3) The Commission may authorise one or more chartered accountants or company
secretaries or cost accountants or legal practitioners or any of its officers
to act as presenting officers and every person so authorised may present the
case with respect to any appeal before the Appellate Tribunal. Explanation.
—The expressions "chartered accountant" or "company secretary" or "cost
accountant" or "legal practitioner" shall have the meanings respectively
assigned to them in the Explanation to section 35. ]
58 [ 53T Appeal to Supreme Court. —The Central Government or any State
Government or the Commission or any statutory authority or any local authority
or any enterprise or any person aggrieved by any decision or order of the
Appellate Tribunal may file an appeal to the Supreme Court within sixty days
from the date of communication of the decision or order of the Appellate
Tribunal to them: Provided that the Supreme Court may, if it is satisfied that
the applicant was prevented by sufficient cause from filing the appeal within
the said period, allow it to be filed after the expiry of the said period of
sixty days. ]
59 [ 53U Power to punish for contempt. —The Appellate Tribunal shall have, and
exercise, the same jurisdiction, powers and authority in respect of contempt
of itself as a High Court has and may exercise and, for this purpose, the
provisions of the Contempt of Courts Act, 1971 (70 of 1971) shall have effect
subject to modifications that,—
(a) the reference therein to a High Court shall be construed as including a
reference to the Appellate Tribunal;
(b) the references to the Advocate-General in section 15 of the said Act shall
be construed as a reference to such Law Officer as the Central Government may,
by notification, specify in this behalf. ]
54. Power to exempt.—The Central Government may, by notification, exempt from the application of this Act, or any provision thereof, and for such period as it may specify in such notification—
(a) any class of enterprise if such exemption is necessary in the interest of
security of the State or public interest;
(b) any practice or agreement arising out of and in accordance with any
obligation assumed by India under any treaty, agreement or convention with any
other country or countries;
(c) any enterprise which performs a sovereign function on behalf of the
Central Government or a State Government: Provided that in case an enterprise
is engaged in any activity including the activity relatable to the sovereign
functions of the Government, the Central Government may grant exemption only
in respect of activity relatable to the sovereign functions.
55. Power of Central Government to issue directions.—
(1) Without prejudice to the foregoing provisions of this Act, the Commission
shall, in exercise of its powers or the performance of its functions under
this Act, be bound by such directions on questions of policy, other than those
relating to technical and administrative matters, as the Central Government
may give in writing to it from time to time: Provided that the Commission
shall, as far as practicable, be given an opportunity to express its views
before any direction is given under this sub-section.
(2) The decision of the Central Government whether a question is one of policy
or not shall be final.
56. Power of Central Government to supersede Commission.—
(1) If at any time the Central Government is of the opinion—
(a) that on account of circumstances beyond the control of the Commission, it
is unable to discharge the functions or perform the duties imposed on it by or
under the provisions of this Act; or
(b) that the Commission has persistently made default in complying with any
direction given by the Central Government under this Act or in the discharge
of the functions or performance of the duties imposed on it by or under the
provisions of this Act and as a result of such default the financial position
of the Commission or the administration of the Commission has suffered; or
(c) that circumstances exist which render it necessary in the public interest
so to do, the Central Government may, by notification and for reasons to be
specified therein, supersede the Commission for such period, not exceeding six
months, as may be specified in the notification: Provided that before issuing
any such notification, the Central Government shall give a reasonable
opportunity to the Commission to make representations against the proposed
supersession and shall consider representations, if any, of the Commission.
(2) Upon the publication of a notification under sub-section (1) superseding
the Commission,—
(a) the Chairperson and other Members shall, as from the date of supersession,
vacate their offices as such;
(b) all the powers, functions and duties which may, by or under the provisions
of this Act, be exercised or discharged by or on behalf of the Commission
shall, until the Commission is reconstituted under sub-section (3), be
exercised and discharged by the Central Government or such authority as the
Central Government may specify in this behalf;
(c) all properties owned or controlled by the Commission shall, until the
Commission is reconstituted under sub-section (3), vest in the Central
Government.
(3) On or before the expiration of the period of supersession specified in the
notification issued under sub-section (1), the Central Government shall
reconstitute the Commission by a fresh appointment of its Chairperson and
other Members and in such case any person who had vacated his office under
clause (a) of sub-section (2) shall not be deemed to be disqualified for re-
appointment.
(4) The Central Government shall cause a notification issued under sub-section
(1) and a full report of any action taken under this section and the
circumstances leading to such action to be laid before each House of
Parliament at the earliest.
57 Restriction on disclosure of information. —No information relating to any
enterprise, being an information which has been obtained by or on behalf of 60
[the Commission or the Appellate Tribunal] for the purposes of this Act,
shall, without the previous permission in writing of the enterprise, be
disclosed otherwise than in compliance with or for the purposes of this Act or
any other law for the time being in force.
[ 58 Chairperson, Members, Director-General, Secretary, officers and other
employees, etc., to be public servants. —The Chairperson and other Members and
the Director-General, Additional, Joint, Deputy or Assistant Directors-General
and Secretary and officers and other employees of the Commission and the
Chairperson, Members, officers and other employees of the Appellate Tribunal
shall be deemed, while acting or purporting to act in pursuance of any of the
provisions of this Act, to be public servants within the meaning of section 21
of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860).]" 58. Members, Director General,
Registrar, officers and other employees, etc., of Commission to be public
servants. —The Chairperson and other Members and the Director General,
Additional, Joint, Deputy or Assistant Directors General and Registrar and
officers and other employees of the Commission shall be deemed, while acting
or purporting to act in pursuance of any of the provisions of this Act, to be
public servants within the meaning of section 21 of the Indian Penal Code (45
of 1860).".
59 Protection of action taken in good faith. —No suit, prosecution or other
legal proceedings shall lie against the Central Government or Commission or
any officer of the Central Government or the Chairperson or any Member or the
Director General, Additional, Joint, Deputy or Assistant Directors General or
62 [the Secretary or officers or other employees of the Commission or the
Chairperson, Members, officers and other employees of the Appellate Tribunal]
for anything which is in good faith done or intended to be done under this Act
or the rules or regulations made thereunder.
60. Act to have overriding effect.—The provisions of this Act shall have effect notwithstanding anything inconsistent therewith contained in any other law for the time being in force.
61 Exclusion of jurisdiction of civil courts. —No civil court shall have
jurisdiction to entertain any suit or proceeding in respect of any matter
which the 63 [Commission or the Appellate Tribunal] is empowered by or under
this Act to determine and no injunction shall be granted by any court or other
authority in respect of any action taken or to be taken in pursuance of any
power conferred by or under this Act.
62. Application of other laws not barred.—The provisions of this Act shall be in addition to, and not in derogation of, the provisions of any other law for the time being in force.
63 Power to make rules. —
(1) The Central Government may, by notification, make rules to carry out the
provisions of this Act.
(2) In particular, and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing
power, such rules may provide for all or any of the following matters,
namely:—
64 [(a) the term of the Selection Committee and the manner of selection of
panel of names under sub-section (2) of section 9;]
(b) the form and manner in which and the authority before whom the oath of
office and of secrecy shall be made and subscribed to under sub-section (3) of
section 10; 65 [***]
(d) the salary and the other terms and conditions of service including
travelling expenses, house rent allowance and conveyance facilities, sumptuary
allowance and medical facilities to be provided to the Chairperson and other
Members under sub-section (1) of section 14;
66 [(da) the number of Additional, Joint, Deputy or Assistant Directors-
General or such officers or other employees in the office of Director-General
and the manner in which such Additional, Joint, Deputy or Assistant Directors-
General or such officers or other employees may be appointed under sub-section
(1A) of section 16;]
(e) the salary, allowances and other terms and conditions of service of the
Director General, Additional, Joint, Deputy or Assistant Directors-General or
67 [such officers or other employees] under sub-section (3) of section 16;
(f) the qualifications for appointment of the Director General, Additional,
Joint, Deputy or Assistant Directors General or 67 [such officers or other
employees] under sub-section (4) of section 16;
(g) the salaries and allowances and other terms and conditions of service of
the 68 [Secretary] and officers and other employees payable, and the number of
such officers and employees under sub-section (2) of section 17; 69 [***]
(k) the form in which the annual statement of accounts shall be prepared under
sub-section (1) of section 52;
(l) the time within which and the form and manner in which the Commission may
furnish returns, statements and such particulars as the Central Government may
require under sub-section (1) of section 53;
(m) the form in which and the time within which the annual report shall be
prepared under sub-section (2) of section 53;
70 [(ma) the form in which an appeal may be filed before the Appellate
Tribunal under sub-section (2) of section 53B and the fees payable in respect
of such appeal;
(mb) the term of the Selection Committee and the manner of selection of panel
of names under sub-section (2) of section 53E;
(mc) the salaries and allowances and other terms and conditions of service of
the Chairperson and other Members of the Appellate Tribunal under sub-section
(1) of section 53G;
(md) the salaries and allowances and other conditions of service of the
officers and other employees of the Appellate Tribunal under sub-section (3)
of section 53M;
(me) the fee which shall be accompanied with every application made under sub-
section (2) of section 53N;
(mf) the other matters under clause (i) of sub-section (2) of section 53-O in
respect of which the Appellate Tribunal shall have powers under the Code of
Civil Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908) while trying a suit;]
[(n) the manner in which the monies transferred to the Competition Commission
of India or the Appellate Tribunal shall be dealt with by the Commission, or
the Appellate Tribunal, as the case may be, under the fourth proviso to sub-
section (2) of section 66;]
(o) any other matter which is to be, or may be, prescribed, or in respect of
which provision is to be, or may be, made by rules.
(3) Every notification issued under sub-section (3) of section 20 and section
54 and every rule made under this Act by the Central Government shall be laid,
as soon as may be after it is made, before each House of Parliament, while it
is in session, for a total period of thirty days which may be comprised in one
session, or in two or more successive sessions, and if, before the expiry of
the session immediately following the session or the successive sessions
aforesaid, both Houses agree in making any modification in the notification or
rule, or both Houses agree that the notification should not be issued or rule
should not be made, the notification or rule shall thereafter have effect only
in such modified form or be of no effect, as the case may be; so, however,
that any such modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to the
validity of anything previously done under that notification or rule, as the
case may be. "(a) the manner in which the Chairperson and other Members shall
be selected under section 9;". "(c) the financial and administrative powers
which may be vested in the Member Administration under section 13;". "(h) for
securing any case or matter which requires to be decided by a Bench composed
of more than two Members under sub-section (4) of section 23;
(i) any other matter in respect of which the Commission shall have power under
clause (g) of sub-section (2) of section 36;
(j) the promotion of competition advocacy, creating awareness and imparting
training about competition issues under sub-section (3) of section 49;".
(n) the manner in which the monies transferred to the Central Government shall
be dealt with by that Government under the fourth proviso to sub-section (2)
of section 66;".
64 Power to make regulations. —
(1) The Commission may, by notification, make regulations consistent with this
Act and the rules made thereunder to carry out the purposes of this Act.
(2) In particular, and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing
provisions, such regulations may provide for all or any of the following
matters, namely:—
(a) the cost of production to be determined under clause (b) of the
Explanation to section 4;
(b) the form of notice as may be specified and the fee which may be determined
under sub-section (2) of section 6;
(c) the form in which details of the acquisition shall be filed under sub-
section (5) of section 6;
71 [(d) the procedures to be followed for engaging the experts and
professionals under sub-section (3) of section 17;
(e) the fee which may be determined under clause (a) of sub-section (1) of
section 19;
(f) the rules of procedure in regard to the transaction of business at the
meetings of the Commission under sub-section (1) of section 22;
(g) the manner in which penalty shall be recovered under sub-section (1) of
section 39;
(h) any other matter in respect of which provision is to be, or may be, made
by regulations.]
(3) Every regulation made under this Act shall be laid, as soon as may be
after it is made, before each House of Parliament, while it is in session, for
a total period of thirty days which may be comprised in one session or in two
or more successive sessions, and if, before the expiry of the session
immediately following the session or the successive sessions aforesaid, both
Houses agree in making any modification in the regulation, or both Houses
agree that the regulation should not be made, the regulation shall thereafter
have effect only in such modified form or be of no effect, as the case may be;
so, however, that any such modification or annulment shall be without
prejudice to the validity of anything previously done under that regulation.
"(d) the fee which may be determined under clause (a) of sub-section (1) of
section 19;
(e) any other matter in respect of which provision is to be, or may be, made
by regulations.".
65. Power to remove difficulties.—
(1) If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of this Act,
the Central Government may, by order published in the Official Gazette, make
such provisions, not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act as may
appear to it to be necessary for removing the difficulty: Provided that no
such order shall be made under this section after the expiry of a period of
two years from the commencement of this Act.
(2) Every order made under this section shall be laid, as soon as may be after
it is made, before each House of Parliament.
66 Repeal and saving. — 72 [
(1) The Monopolies and Restrictive Trade Practices Act, 1969 (54 of 1969) is
hereby repealed and the Monopolies and Restrictive Trade Practices Commission
established under sub-section (1) of Section 5 of the said Act (hereafter
referred to as the repealed Act) shall stand dissolved: 73 [***]
(1A) The repeal of the Monopolies and Restrictive Trade Practices Act, 1969
(54 of 1969) shall, however, not affect,—
(a) the previous operation of the Act so repealed or anything duly done or
suffered thereunder; or
(b) any right, privilege, obligation or liability acquired, accrued or
incurred under the Act so repealed; or
(c) any penalty, confiscation or punishment incurred in respect of any
contravention under the Act so repealed; or
(d) any proceeding or remedy in respect of any such right, privilege,
obligation, liability, penalty, confiscation or punishment as aforesaid, and
any such proceeding or remedy may be instituted, continued or enforced, and
any such penalty, confiscation or punishment may be imposed or made as if that
Act had not been repealed.]
(2) On the dissolution of the Monopolies and Restrictive Trade Practices
Commission, the person appointed as the Chairman of the Monopolies and
Restrictive Trade Practices Commission and every other person appointed as
Member and Director General of Investigation and Registration, Additional,
Joint, Deputy, or Assistant Director General of Investigation and Registration
and any officer and other employee of that Commission and holding office as
such immediately before such dissolution shall vacate their respective offices
and such Chairman and other Members shall be entitled to claim compensation
not exceeding three months' pay and allowances for the premature termination
of term of their office or of any contract of service: Provided that the
Director General of Investigation and Registration, Additional, Joint, Deputy
or Assistant Directors General of Investigation and Registration or any
officer or other employee who has been, immediately before the dissolution of
the Monopolies and Restrictive Trade Practices Commission appointed on
deputation basis to the Monopolies and Restrictive Trade Practices Commission,
shall, on such dissolution, stand reverted to his parent cadre, Ministry or
Department, as the case may be: 74 [Provided further that the Director-General
of Investigation and Registration, Additional, Joint, Deputy or Assistant
Directors-General of Investigation and Registration or any officer or other
employee who has been, immediately before the dissolution of the Monopolies
and Restrictive Trade Practices Commission employed on regular basis by the
Monopolies and Restrictive Trade Practices Commission, shall become, on and
from such dissolution, the officer and employee, respectively, of the
Competition Commission of India or the Appellate Tribunal, in such manner as
may be specified by the Central Government, with the same rights and
privileges as to pension, gratuity and other like matters as would have been
admissible to him if the rights in relation to such Monopolies and Restrictive
Trade Practices Commission had not been transferred to, and vested in, the
Competition Commission of India or the Appellate Tribunal, as the case may be,
and shall continue to do so unless and until his employment in the Competition
Commission of India or the Appellate Tribunal, as the case may be, is duly
terminated or until his remuneration, terms and conditions of employment are
duly altered by the Competition Commission of India or the Appellate Tribunal,
as the case may be:] Provided also that notwithstanding anything contained in
the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), or in any other law for the
time being in force, the transfer of the services of any Director General of
Investigation and Registration, Additional, Joint, Deputy or Assistant
Directors General of Investigation and Registration or any officer or other
employee, employed in the Monopolies and Restrictive Trade Practices
Commission, to 75 [the Competition Commission of India or the Appellate
Tribunal, as the case may be,] shall not entitle such Director General of
Investigation and Registration, Additional, Joint, Deputy or Assistant
Directors General of Investigation and Registration or any officer or other
employee any compensation under this Act or any other law for the time being
in force and no such claim shall be entertained by any court, tribunal or
other authority: Provided also that where the Monopolies and Restrictive Trade
Practices Commission has established a provident fund, superannuation, welfare
or other fund for the benefit of the Director General of Investigation and
Registration, Additional, Joint, Deputy or Assistant Directors General of
Investigation and Registration or the officers and other employees employed in
the Monopolies and Restrictive Trade Practices Commission, the monies
relatable to the officers and other employees whose services have been
transferred by or under this Act to 76 [the Competition Commission of India or
the Appellate Tribunal, as the case may be, shall, out of the monies
standing], on the dissolution of the Monopolies and Restrictive Trade
Practices Commission to the credit of such provident fund, superannuation,
welfare or other fund, stand transferred to, and vest in, 77 [the Competition
Commission of India or the Appellate Tribunal, as the case may be, and such
monies which stand so transferred shall be dealt with by the said Commission
or the Tribunal, as the case may be, in such manner as may be prescribed.]
78 [(3) All cases pertaining to monopolistic trade practices or restrictive
trade practices pending (including such cases, in which any unfair trade
practice has also been alleged), before the Monopolies and Restrictive Trade
Practices Commission shall, 79 [on the commencement of the Competition
(Amendment) Ordinance, 2009], stand transferred to the Appellate Tribunal and
shall be adjudicated by the Appellate Tribunal in accordance with the
provisions of the repealed Act as if that Act had not been repealed.]
(4) Subject to the provisions of sub-section (3), all cases pertaining to
unfair trade practices other than those referred to in clause (x) of sub-
section (1) of Section 36A of the Monopolies and Restrictive Trade Practices
Act, 1969 (54 of 1969) and pending before the Monopolies and Restrictive Trade
Practices Commission 80 [immediately before the commencement of the
Competition (Amendment) Ordinance, 2009, shall, on such commencement], stand
transferred to the National Commission constituted under the Consumer
Protection Act, 1986 (68 of 1986) and the National Commission shall dispose of
such cases as if they were cases filed under that Act: Provided that the
National Commission may, if it considers appropriate, transfer any case
transferred to it under this sub-section to the concerned State Commission
established under section 9 of the Consumer Protection Act, 1986 (68 of 1986)
and that State Commission shall dispose of such case as if it was filed under
that Act.
81 [(5) All cases pertaining to unfair trade practices referred to in clause
(x) of sub-section (1) of Section 36A of the Monopolies and Restrictive Trade
Practices Act, 1969 (54 of 1969) and pending before the Monopolies and
Restrictive Trade Practices Commission shall, 82 [on the commencement of the
Competition (Amendment) Ordinance, 2009], stand transferred to the Appellate
Tribunal and the Appellate Tribunal shall dispose of such cases as if they
were cases filed under that Act.]
(6) All investigations or proceedings, other than those relating to unfair
trade practices, pending before the Director General of Investigation and
Registration on or before the commencement of this Act shall, on such
commencement, stand transferred to the Competition Commission of India, and
the Competition Commission of India may conduct or order for conduct of such
investigation or proceedings in the manner as it deems fit.
(7) All investigations or proceedings, relating to unfair trade practices
other than those referred to in clause (x) of sub-section (1) of Section 36A
of the Monopolies and Restrictive Trade Practices Act, 1969 (54 of 1969) and
pending before the Director-General of Investigation and Registration on or
before the commencement of this Act shall, on such commencement, stand
transferred to the National Commission constituted under the Consumer
Protection Act, 1986 (68 of 1986) and the National Commission may conduct or
order for conduct of such investigation or proceedings in the manner as it
deems fit.
(8) All investigations or proceedings relating to unfair trade practices
referred to in clause (x) of sub-section (1) of section 36A of the Monopolies
and Restrictive Trade Practices Act, 1969 (54 of 1969), and pending before the
Director-General of Investigation and Registration on or before the
commencement of this Act shall, on such commencement, stand transferred to the
Competition Commission of India and the Competition Commission of India may
conduct or order for conduct of such investigation in the manner as it deems
fit.
(9) Save as otherwise provided under sub-sections (3) to (8), all cases or
proceedings pending before the Monopolies and Restrictive Trade Practices
Commission shall abate.
(10) The mention of the particular matters referred to in sub-sections (3) to
(8) shall not be held to prejudice or affect the general application of
section 6 of the General Clauses Act, 1897 (10 of 1897) with regard to the
effect of repeal.
1\. Section 1, clauses (d), (g), (j), (k), (l) and (n) of section 2, sections
8, 9, 10, 14, 16, 17, sub-section (1) of section 63 and clauses (a), (b), (d),
(e), (f) and (g) of sub-section (2) of section 63 came into force on
31-3-2003, vide S.O. No. 340 (E), dated 31st March, 2003, published in the
Gazette of India, Extra. Pt. II, Sec. 3(ii), dated 31st March, 2003. tc" 1.
Section 1, clauses (d), (g), (j), (k), (l) and (n) of section 2, sections 8,
9, 10, 14, 16, 17, sub-section (1) of section 63 and clauses (a), (b), (d),
(e), (f) and (g) of sub-section (2) of section 63 came into force on
31-3-2003, vide S.O. No. 340 (E), dated 31st March, 2003, published in the
Gazette of India, Extra. Pt. II, Sec. 3(ii), dated 31st March, 2003."
2\. Ins. by Act 39 of 2007, sec. 2 (w.e.f. 12-10-2007).
3\. 14th October, 2003 vide S.O. 1198 (E), dated 14th October, 2003. tc" 1.
14th October, 2003 vide S.O. 1198 (E), dated 14th October, 2003."
4\. New Delhi vide S.O. 1198 (E), dated 14th October, 2003. tc" 2. New Delhi
vide S.O. 1198 (E), dated 14th October, 2003."
5\. Subs. by Act 39 of 2007, sec. 6, for section 8 (w.e.f. 12-10-2007).
Section 8 before substitution, stood as under:
6\. Subs. by Act 39 of 2007, sec. 8, for the proviso (w.e.f. 12-10-2007). The
proviso, before substitution, stood as under:
7\. Subs. by Act 39 of 2007, sec. 9, for the words “one year” (w.e.f.
12-10-2007).
8\. Subs. by Act 39 of 2007, sec. 11(a), for sub-section (1) (w.e.f.
12-10-2007). Sub-section (1), before substitution, stood as under:
9\. Subs. by Act 39 of 2007, sec. 11(b), for the words "such other advisers,
consultants and officers" (w.e.f. 12-10-2007).
10\. Subs. by Act 39 of 2007, sec. 11(c), for the words "such other advisers,
consultants or officers" (w.e.f. 12-10-2007).
11\. Subs. by Act 39 of 2007, sec. 12, for section 17 (w.e.f. 12-10-2007).
Section 17, before substitution, stood as under:
12\. Subs. by Act 39 of 2007, sec. 17, for section 22 (w.e.f. 12-10-2007).
Section 22, before substitution, stood as under:
13\. Omitted by Act 39 of 2007, sec. 18 (w.e.f. 12-10-2007). Section 24,
before omission, stood as under:
14\. Omitted by Act 39 of 2007, sec. 18 (w.e.f. 12-10-2007). Section 25,
before omission, stood as under:
15\. Omitted by Act 39 of 2007, sec. 27 (w.e.f. 12-10-2007). Section 34,
before omission, stood as under:
16\. Subs. by Act 39 of 2007, sec. 29, for section 36 (w.e.f. 12-10-2007).
Section 36, before substitution, stood as under:
17\. Omitted by Act 39 of 2007, sec. 30 (w.e.f. 12-10-2007). Section 37,
before omission, stood as under:
18\. Omitted by Act 39 of 2007, sec. 32 (w.e.f. 12-10-2007). Section 40,
before omission, stood as under:
19\. Ins. by Act 39 of 2007, sec. 35.
20\. Ins. by Act 39 of 2007, sec. 37.
21\. Subs. by Act 39 of 2007, sec. 40(a), for sub-section (1) (w.e.f.
12-10-2007). Sub-section (1), before substitution, stood as under:
22\. Ins. by Act 39 of 2007, sec. 40(b) (w.e.f. 12-10-2007).
23\. The words ", as may be prescribed," omitted by Act 39 of 2007, sec. 40(c)
(w.e.f. 12-10-2007).
24\. Clause (b), omitted by Act 39 of 2007, sec. 41(i) (w.e.f. 12-10-2007).
Clause (b), before omission, stood as under:
25\. Subs. by Act 39 of 2007, sec. 41(ii), for the words "clauses (a) to (c)"
(w.e.f. 12-10-2007).
26\. Subs. by Act 39 of 2007, sec. 42, for the words "Supreme Court" (w.e.f.
12-10-2007).
27\. Ssection 53A ins. by Act 39 of 2007, sec. 43.
28\. Came into force on 12-10-2007, vide S.O. 1747(E), dated 12th October,
2007.
29\. Sec 53B ins. by Act 39 of 2007, sec. 43.
30\. Chapter VIIIA (Containing sections 53C) ins. by Act 39 of 2007, sec. 43.
31\. Came into force on 20-12-2007, vide S.O. 2167(E), dated 20th December,
2007.
32\. Chapter VIIIA sections 53D ins. by Act 39 of 2007, sec. 43.
33\. Came into force on 20-12-2007, vide S.O. 2167(E), dated 20th December,
2007.
34\. Chapter VIIIA sections 53E ins. by Act 39 of 2007, sec. 43.
35\. Came into force on 20-12-2007, vide S.O. 2167(E), dated 20th December,
2007.
36\. Chapter VIIIA sections 53F ins. by Act 39 of 2007, sec. 43.
37\. Came into force on 20-12-2007, vide S.O. 2167(E), dated 20th December,
2007.
38\. Chapter VIIIA sections 53G ins. by Act 39 of 2007, sec. 43.
39\. Came into force on 20-12-2007, vide S.O. 2167(E), dated 20th December,
2007.
40\. Chapter VIIIA sections 53H ins. by Act 39 of 2007, sec. 43.
41\. Came into force on 20-12-2007, vide S.O. 2167(E), dated 20th December,
2007.
42\. Chapter VIIIA sections 53I ins. by Act 39 of 2007, sec. 43.
43\. Came into force on 20-12-2007, vide S.O. 2167(E), dated 20th December,
2007.
44\. Chapter VIIIA sections 53J ins. by Act 39 of 2007, sec. 43.
45\. Came into force on 20-12-2007, vide S.O. 2167(E), dated 20th December,
2007.
46\. Chapter VIIIA sections 53K ins. by Act 39 of 2007, sec. 43.
47\. Came into force on 20-12-2007, vide S.O. 2167(E), dated 20th December,
2007.
48\. Chapter VIIIA sections 53L ins. by Act 39 of 2007, sec. 43.
49\. Came into force on 20-12-2007, vide S.O. 2167(E), dated 20th December,
2007.
50\. Chapter VIIIA sections 53M ins. by Act 39 of 2007, sec. 43.
51\. Came into force on 20-12-2007, vide S.O. 2167(E), dated 20th December,
2007.
52\. Sec 53N ins. by Act 39 of 2007, sec. 43.
53\. Sec 53O ins. by Act 39 of 2007, sec. 43.
54\. Sec 53P ins. by Act 39 of 2007, sec. 43.
55\. Sec 53Q ins. by Act 39 of 2007, sec. 43.
56\. Sec 53R ins. by Act 39 of 2007, sec. 43.
57\. Sec 53S ins. by Act 39 of 2007, sec. 43.
58\. Sec 53T ins. by Act 39 of 2007, sec. 43.
59\. Sec 53U ins. by Act 39 of 2007, sec. 43.
60\. Subs. by Act 39 of 2007, sec. 44, for the words "the Commission" (w.e.f.
12-10-2007).
61\. Subs. by Act 39 of 2007, sec. 45, for section 58 (w.e.f. 12-10-2007).
Section 58, before substitution, stood as under:
62\. Subs. by Act 39 of 2007, sec. 46, for the words "the Registrar or
officers or other employees of the Commission" (w.e.f. 12-10-2007).
63\. Subs. by Act 39 of 2007, sec. 47, for the word "Commission" (w.e.f.
12-10-2007).
64\. Subs. by Act 39 of 2007, sec. 48(i), for clause (a) (w.e.f. 12-10-2007).
Clause (a), before substitution, stood as under:
65\. Clause (c) omitted by Act 39 of 2007, sec. 48(ii) (w.e.f. 12-10-2007).
Clause (c), before omission, stood as under:
66\. Ins. by Act 39 of 2007, sec. 48(iii) (w.e.f. 12-10-2007).
67\. Subs. by Act 39 of 2007, sec. 48(iv), for the words "such other advisers,
consultants or officers" (w.e.f. 12-10-2007).
68\. Subs. by Act 39 of 2007, sec. 48(v), for the word "Registrar" (w.e.f.
12-10-2007).
69\. Clauses (h), (i) and (j) omitted by Act 39 of 2007, sec. 48(vi) (w.e.f.
12-10-2007). Clauses (h), (i) and (j), before omission, stood as under:
70\. Ins. by Act 39 of 2007, sec. 48(vii) (w.e.f. 12-10-2007).
71\. Subs. by Act 39 of 2007, sec. 49, for clauses (d) & (e) (w.e.f.
12-10-2007). Clauses (d) & (e), before substitution, stood as under:
72\. Subs. by Act 39 of 2007, sec. 50(a), for sub-section (1) (w.e.f.
1-9-2009). Sub-section (1), before substitution, stood as under:
73\. The Proviso and the Explanation omitted by Ord. 6 of 2009, sec. 2(a)
(w.e.f. 14-10-2009). The Proviso and the Explanation, before omission, stood
as under:
74\. Subs. by Act 39 of 2007, sec. 50(b)(i), for the second proviso (w.e.f.
1-9-2009). The second proviso, before substitution, stood as under:
75\. Subs. by Act 39 of 2007, sec. 50(b)(ii), for the words "the Central
Government" (w.e.f. 1-9-2009).
76\. Subs. by Act 39 of 2007, sec. 50(b)(iii), for the words "the Central
Government shall, out of the monies standing" (w.e.f. 1-9-2009).
77\. Subs. by Act 39 of 2007, sec. 50(b)(iii), for the words "the Central
Government and such monies which stand so transferred shall be dealt with by
the said Government in such manner as may be prescribed." (w.e.f. 1-9-2009).
78\. Subs. by Act 39 of 2007, sec. 50(c), for sub-section (3) (w.e.f.
1-9-2009). Sub-section (3), before substitution, stood as under:
79\. Subs. by Ord. 6 of 2009, sec. 2(b), for "after the expiry of two years
referred to in the proviso to sub-section (1)" (w.e.f. 14-10-2009).
80\. Subs. by Ord. 6 of 2009, sec. 2(c), for “on or before the expiry of two
years referred to in the proviso to sub-section (1)” (w.e.f. 14-10-2009).
Earlier these words were substituted by Act 39 of 2007, sec. 50(d) (w.e.f.
1-9-2009).
81\. Subs. by Act 39 of 2007, sec. 50(e), for sub-section (5) (w.e.f.
1-9-2009). Sub-section (5), before substitution, stood as under:
82\. Subs. by Ord. 6 of 2009, sec. 2(d), for “after the expiry of two years
referred to in the proviso to sub-section (1)” (w.e.f. 14-10-2009).
1-9-2009). The second proviso, before substitution, stood as under:
75\. Subs. by Act 39 of 2007, sec. 50(b)(ii), for the words "the Central
Government" (w.e.f. 1-9-2009).
76\. Subs. by Act 39 of 2007, sec. 50(b)(iii), for the words "the Central
Government shall, out of the monies standing" (w.e.f. 1-9-2009).
77\. Subs. by Act 39 of 2007, sec. 50(b)(iii), for the words "the Central
Government and such monies which stand so transferred shall be dealt with by
the said Government in such manner as may be prescribed." (w.e.f. 1-9-2009).
78\. Subs. by Act 39 of 2007, sec. 50(c), for sub-section (3) (w.e.f.
1-9-2009). Sub-section (3), before substitution, stood as under:
79\. Subs. by Ord. 6 of 2009, sec. 2(b), for "after the expiry of two years
referred to in the proviso to sub-section (1)" (w.e.f. 14-10-2009).
80\. Subs. by Ord. 6 of 2009, sec. 2(c), for “on or before the expiry of two
years referred to in the proviso to sub-section (1)” (w.e.f. 14-10-2009).
Earlier these words were substituted by Act 39 of 2007, sec. 50(d) (w.e.f.
1-9-2009).
writing; or
(ii) whether or not such arrangement, understanding or action is intended to
be enforceable by legal proceedings;
2 [(ba) "Appellate Tribunal" means the Competition Appellate Tribunal
established under sub-section (1) of section 53A;]
(c) “cartel” includes an association of producers, sellers, distributors,
traders or service providers who, by agreement amongst themselves, limit
control or attempt to control the production, distribution, sale or price of,
or, trade in goods or provision of services;
(d) “Chairperson” means the Chairperson of the Commission appointed under sub-
section (1) of section 8;
(e) “Commission” means the Competition Commission of India established under
sub-section (1) of section 7;
(f) “consumer” means any person who—
(i) buys any goods for a consideration which has been paid or promised or
partly paid and partly promised, or under any system of deferred payment and
includes any user of such goods other than the person who buys such goods for
consideration paid or promised or partly paid or partly promised, or under any
system of deferred payment when such use is made with the approval of such
person, whether such purchase of goods is for resale or for any commercial
1-9-2009). The second proviso, before substitution, stood as under:
75\. Subs. by Act 39 of 2007, sec. 50(b)(ii), for the words "the Central
Government" (w.e.f. 1-9-2009).
76\. Subs. by Act 39 of 2007, sec. 50(b)(iii), for the words "the Central
Government shall, out of the monies standing" (w.e.f. 1-9-2009).
77\. Subs. by Act 39 of 2007, sec. 50(b)(iii), for the words "the Central
Government and such monies which stand so transferred shall be dealt with by
the said Government in such manner as may be prescribed." (w.e.f. 1-9-2009).
78\. Subs. by Act 39 of 2007, sec. 50(c), for sub-section (3) (w.e.f.
1-9-2009). Sub-section (3), before substitution, stood as under:
79\. Subs. by Ord. 6 of 2009, sec. 2(b), for "after the expiry of two years
referred to in the proviso to sub-section (1)" (w.e.f. 14-10-2009).
80\. Subs. by Ord. 6 of 2009, sec. 2(c), for “on or before the expiry of two
years referred to in the proviso to sub-section (1)” (w.e.f. 14-10-2009).
Earlier these words were substituted by Act 39 of 2007, sec. 50(d) (w.e.f.
1-9-2009).
writing; or
(ii) whether or not such arrangement, understanding or action is intended to
be enforceable by legal proceedings;
2 [(ba) "Appellate Tribunal" means the Competition Appellate Tribunal
established under sub-section (1) of section 53A;]
(c) “cartel” includes an association of producers, sellers, distributors,
traders or service providers who, by agreement amongst themselves, limit
control or attempt to control the production, distribution, sale or price of,
or, trade in goods or provision of services;
(d) “Chairperson” means the Chairperson of the Commission appointed under sub-
section (1) of section 8;
(e) “Commission” means the Competition Commission of India established under
sub-section (1) of section 7;
(f) “consumer” means any person who—
(i) buys any goods for a consideration which has been paid or promised or
partly paid and partly promised, or under any system of deferred payment and
includes any user of such goods other than the person who buys such goods for
consideration paid or promised or partly paid or partly promised, or under any
system of deferred payment when such use is made with the approval of such
person, whether such purchase of goods is for resale or for any commercial
1-9-2009). The second proviso, before substitution, stood as under:
75\. Subs. by Act 39 of 2007, sec. 50(b)(ii), for the words "the Central
Government" (w.e.f. 1-9-2009).
76\. Subs. by Act 39 of 2007, sec. 50(b)(iii), for the words "the Central
Government shall, out of the monies standing" (w.e.f. 1-9-2009).
77\. Subs. by Act 39 of 2007, sec. 50(b)(iii), for the words "the Central
Government and such monies which stand so transferred shall be dealt with by
the said Government in such manner as may be prescribed." (w.e.f. 1-9-2009).
78\. Subs. by Act 39 of 2007, sec. 50(c), for sub-section (3) (w.e.f.
1-9-2009). Sub-section (3), before substitution, stood as under:
79\. Subs. by Ord. 6 of 2009, sec. 2(b), for "after the expiry of two years
referred to in the proviso to sub-section (1)" (w.e.f. 14-10-2009).
80\. Subs. by Ord. 6 of 2009, sec. 2(c), for “on or before the expiry of two
years referred to in the proviso to sub-section (1)” (w.e.f. 14-10-2009).
Earlier these words were substituted by Act 39 of 2007, sec. 50(d) (w.e.f.
1-9-2009).
writing; or
(ii) whether or not such arrangement, understanding or action is intended to
be enforceable by legal proceedings;
2 [(ba) "Appellate Tribunal" means the Competition Appellate Tribunal
established under sub-section (1) of section 53A;]
(c) “cartel” includes an association of producers, sellers, distributors,
traders or service providers who, by agreement amongst themselves, limit
control or attempt to control the production, distribution, sale or price of,
or, trade in goods or provision of services;
(d) “Chairperson” means the Chairperson of the Commission appointed under sub-
section (1) of section 8;
(e) “Commission” means the Competition Commission of India established under
sub-section (1) of section 7;
(f) “consumer” means any person who—
(i) buys any goods for a consideration which has been paid or promised or
partly paid and partly promised, or under any system of deferred payment and
includes any user of such goods other than the person who buys such goods for
consideration paid or promised or partly paid or partly promised, or under any
system of deferred payment when such use is made with the approval of such
person, whether such purchase of goods is for resale or for any commercial
1-9-2009). The second proviso, before substitution, stood as under:
75\. Subs. by Act 39 of 2007, sec. 50(b)(ii), for the words "the Central
Government" (w.e.f. 1-9-2009).
76\. Subs. by Act 39 of 2007, sec. 50(b)(iii), for the words "the Central
Government shall, out of the monies standing" (w.e.f. 1-9-2009).
77\. Subs. by Act 39 of 2007, sec. 50(b)(iii), for the words "the Central
Government and such monies which stand so transferred shall be dealt with by
the said Government in such manner as may be prescribed." (w.e.f. 1-9-2009).
78\. Subs. by Act 39 of 2007, sec. 50(c), for sub-section (3) (w.e.f.
1-9-2009). Sub-section (3), before substitution, stood as under:
79\. Subs. by Ord. 6 of 2009, sec. 2(b), for "after the expiry of two years
referred to in the proviso to sub-section (1)" (w.e.f. 14-10-2009).
80\. Subs. by Ord. 6 of 2009, sec. 2(c), for “on or before the expiry of two
years referred to in the proviso to sub-section (1)” (w.e.f. 14-10-2009).
Earlier these words were substituted by Act 39 of 2007, sec. 50(d) (w.e.f.
1-9-2009).
writing; or
(ii) whether or not such arrangement, understanding or action is intended to
be enforceable by legal proceedings;
2 [(ba) "Appellate Tribunal" means the Competition Appellate Tribunal
established under sub-section (1) of section 53A;]
(c) “cartel” includes an association of producers, sellers, distributors,
traders or service providers who, by agreement amongst themselves, limit
control or attempt to control the production, distribution, sale or price of,
or, trade in goods or provision of services;
(d) “Chairperson” means the Chairperson of the Commission appointed under sub-
section (1) of section 8;
(e) “Commission” means the Competition Commission of India established under
sub-section (1) of section 7;
(f) “consumer” means any person who—
(i) buys any goods for a consideration which has been paid or promised or
partly paid and partly promised, or under any system of deferred payment and
includes any user of such goods other than the person who buys such goods for
consideration paid or promised or partly paid or partly promised, or under any
system of deferred payment when such use is made with the approval of such
person, whether such purchase of goods is for resale or for any commercial
purpose or for personal use;
(ii) hires or avails of any services for a consideration which has been paid
or promised or partly paid and partly promised, or under any system of
deferred payment and includes any beneficiary of such services other than the
person who hires or avails of the services for consideration paid or promised,
or partly paid and partly promised, or under any system of deferred payment,
when such services are availed of with the approval of the first-mentioned
person whether such hiring or availing of services is for any commercial
purpose or for personal use;
(g) “Director-General” means the Director-General appointed under sub-section
(1) of section 16 and includes any Additional, Joint, Deputy or Assistant
1-9-2009). The second proviso, before substitution, stood as under:
75\. Subs. by Act 39 of 2007, sec. 50(b)(ii), for the words "the Central
Government" (w.e.f. 1-9-2009).
76\. Subs. by Act 39 of 2007, sec. 50(b)(iii), for the words "the Central
Government shall, out of the monies standing" (w.e.f. 1-9-2009).
77\. Subs. by Act 39 of 2007, sec. 50(b)(iii), for the words "the Central
Government and such monies which stand so transferred shall be dealt with by
the said Government in such manner as may be prescribed." (w.e.f. 1-9-2009).
78\. Subs. by Act 39 of 2007, sec. 50(c), for sub-section (3) (w.e.f.
1-9-2009). Sub-section (3), before substitution, stood as under:
79\. Subs. by Ord. 6 of 2009, sec. 2(b), for "after the expiry of two years
referred to in the proviso to sub-section (1)" (w.e.f. 14-10-2009).
80\. Subs. by Ord. 6 of 2009, sec. 2(c), for “on or before the expiry of two
years referred to in the proviso to sub-section (1)” (w.e.f. 14-10-2009).
Earlier these words were substituted by Act 39 of 2007, sec. 50(d) (w.e.f.
1-9-2009).
writing; or
(ii) whether or not such arrangement, understanding or action is intended to
be enforceable by legal proceedings;
2 [(ba) "Appellate Tribunal" means the Competition Appellate Tribunal
established under sub-section (1) of section 53A;]
(c) “cartel” includes an association of producers, sellers, distributors,
traders or service providers who, by agreement amongst themselves, limit
control or attempt to control the production, distribution, sale or price of,
or, trade in goods or provision of services;
(d) “Chairperson” means the Chairperson of the Commission appointed under sub-
section (1) of section 8;
(e) “Commission” means the Competition Commission of India established under
sub-section (1) of section 7;
(f) “consumer” means any person who—
(i) buys any goods for a consideration which has been paid or promised or
partly paid and partly promised, or under any system of deferred payment and
includes any user of such goods other than the person who buys such goods for
consideration paid or promised or partly paid or partly promised, or under any
system of deferred payment when such use is made with the approval of such
person, whether such purchase of goods is for resale or for any commercial
purpose or for personal use;
(ii) hires or avails of any services for a consideration which has been paid
or promised or partly paid and partly promised, or under any system of
deferred payment and includes any beneficiary of such services other than the
person who hires or avails of the services for consideration paid or promised,
or partly paid and partly promised, or under any system of deferred payment,
when such services are availed of with the approval of the first-mentioned
person whether such hiring or availing of services is for any commercial
purpose or for personal use;
(g) “Director-General” means the Director-General appointed under sub-section
(1) of section 16 and includes any Additional, Joint, Deputy or Assistant
1-9-2009). The second proviso, before substitution, stood as under:
75\. Subs. by Act 39 of 2007, sec. 50(b)(ii), for the words "the Central
Government" (w.e.f. 1-9-2009).
76\. Subs. by Act 39 of 2007, sec. 50(b)(iii), for the words "the Central
Government shall, out of the monies standing" (w.e.f. 1-9-2009).
77\. Subs. by Act 39 of 2007, sec. 50(b)(iii), for the words "the Central
Government and such monies which stand so transferred shall be dealt with by
the said Government in such manner as may be prescribed." (w.e.f. 1-9-2009).
78\. Subs. by Act 39 of 2007, sec. 50(c), for sub-section (3) (w.e.f.
1-9-2009). Sub-section (3), before substitution, stood as under:
79\. Subs. by Ord. 6 of 2009, sec. 2(b), for "after the expiry of two years
referred to in the proviso to sub-section (1)" (w.e.f. 14-10-2009).
80\. Subs. by Ord. 6 of 2009, sec. 2(c), for “on or before the expiry of two
years referred to in the proviso to sub-section (1)” (w.e.f. 14-10-2009).
Earlier these words were substituted by Act 39 of 2007, sec. 50(d) (w.e.f.
1-9-2009).
