Income Tax Appellate Tribunal - Delhi
Ito, New Delhi vs Sh. Sunil Nayyar, Delhi on 24 February, 2020
           IN THE INCOME TAX APPELLATE TRIBUNAL
                 DELHI BENCH 'G', NEW DELHI
               Before Sh. Kuldip Singh, Judicial Member
               Dr. B. R. R. Kumar, Accountant Member
           ITA No. 6168/Del/2016 : Asstt. Year : 2012-13
    Income Tax Officer,              Vs    Sh. Sunil Nayyar,
    Ward-49(3),                            R/o 81-A, Vikrant Enclave,
    New Delhi                              Mayapuri, New Delhi-110064
    (APPELLANT)                            (RESPONDENT)
    PAN No. ABVPN3963B
            CO No. 09/Del/2017 : Asstt. Year : 2012-13
    Sh. Sunil Nayyar,                Vs    Income Tax Officer,
    R/o 81-A, Vikrant Enclave,             Ward-49(3),
    Mayapuri, New Delhi-110064             New Delhi
    (APPELLANT)                            (RESPONDENT)
    PAN No. ABVPN3963B
                     Assessee by : Sh. Jagdish Ajmani, CA
                     Revenue by : Sh. Saras Kumar, Sr. DR
account have been established by the revenue.
51\. Ground no. 4 - (a) Addition made on account of sundry creditors, having
established the fact of payment, is deleted. (b) The cash deposits have been
proved to be the cash sales duly accounted for, hence deleted.
52\. In the result, the appeal of the revenue is dismissed and Cross Objection
of the assessee is treated as infructuous owing to the adjudication on merits
of the case.
Order Pronounced in the Open Court on 24/02/2020.
                Sd/-                                       Sd/-
      (Kuldip Singh)                               (Dr. B. R. R. Kumar)
     Judicial Member                               Accountant Member
    Dated: 24/02/2020
    *Subodh*
    Copy forwarded to:
    1. Appellant
    2. Respondent
                     Revenue by : Sh. Saras Kumar, Sr. DR
    Date of Hearing: 20.01.2020      Date of Pronouncement: 24.02.2020
                                     ORDER
Per Dr. B. R. R. Kumar, Accountant Member:
The present appeal filed by the revenue and Cross Objection by the assessee
are directed against the order of ld. CIT (A)-17, New Delhi dated 05.09.2016.
2\. Following the grounds have been raised by the revenue:
> "1. The Ld. CIT (A) has erred in law and on facts of the case in deleting
> the addition of Rs. 2,79,61,917/- made by the assessing officer on account
> of profit on unexplained deposits in bank, by applying profit of 5% to total
> turnover, on the plea that no defect in books of accounts was pointed out by
> the assessing officer and whereas the assessing officer had  2 ITA No.
> 6168/Del/2016 & CO No. 9/Del/2017 Sunil Nayyar pointed out various defects
> in books of accounts as mentioned in the impugned assessment order dated
> 30/03/2015.
> 2\. The Ld. CIT (A) has erred in upholding genuineness of alleged business
> done by the assessee in the light of enquiries and findings done by the AO.
> 3\. The Ld. CIT (A) has erred in upholding the genuineness of the business
> of the assessee by holding that no specific defects were pointed out by the
> AO when AO mentioned various defects in his books. The Ld. CIT (A) has erred
> in upholding the genuineness of books of assessee when AO has specially
> mentioned that no stock register was maintained and neither any cash book
> nor other details was maintained and produced.
> 4\. The CIT (A) has erred in law and on facts of the case in deleting the
> addition of Rs. 1,39,38,110/- (that is Rs. 51,00,000/- made by the assessing
> officer on account of unexplained cash deposit and Rs. 88,38,110/- made by
> the assessing officer on account of unsecured loans u/s 68 of the IT Act
> 1961). As the assessee failed to prove the identity, genuineness &
> creditworthiness of the parties, who gave the unsecured loan and paid cash
> to the assessee and the assessee has failed to discharge primary onus as
> incomplete address was provided without other details. In view of this, Ld.
> CIT (A) erred in fact and on the law while deleting the addition made by the
> AO."
3\. Ground no. 1 relates to contention of the assessee against rejection of
books of account, estimation of profit and making addition of
Rs.2,79,61,917/-.
4\. The facts, justification, submissions of the AR have been taken from well
compiled order of the ld. CIT (A).
5\. The fact of the case is that the AO found that the assessee was engaged in
the business of whole sale trading of milk in the name of proprietary concern,
M/s Kumars Brothers. Total sale of Rs.86,65,83,744/-
3 ITA No. 6168/Del/2016 &
CO No. 9/Del/2017 Sunil Nayyar was shown on which net profit @0.04% was
declared. GP was shown @0.22%.
6\. The reasons given by the AO while estimating the profit @5% on the gross
turnover is as under:
1\. "Soft Copy of books was not filed, although specifically asked for.
2\. On perusal of Purchase Bills, it is seen that they were identical,
generated through in the same style as is prepared by a single hand.
3\. Tanker Numbers were not written on the Purchase Bills.
4\. These Bills were like new printouts as if it has not passed on to many
hands.
5\. All the purchase bills were sequentially numbered although belong to
different persons except tie bills of Kwality Dairy (India) Ltd.
6\. Like, Purchase Bills, Sale Bills were also computer generated in the same
style and new like paper (without any fold), as if it has not passed through
many hands.
7\. All sale and Purchase Bills bear the similar style of signatures as if
prepared by the same group of persons.
8\. None of the sale bill or the purchase bills contained signatures of the
recipient of goods.
9\. No voucher in respect of Tanker Hire Charges was produced.
10\. Stock register not maintained.
11\. Cash Book not produced for verification.
12\. The AR was specifically asked to show bank pay-in-slips and withdrawal
vouchers and cheque book counterfoils, but it is submitted that all
transactions were through RTGS. No voucher in this regard was produced.
13\. Transport charges are claimed at Rs. 32,78,560/- but no voucher in this
regard was produced.
4 ITA No. 6168/Del/2016 &
CO No. 9/Del/2017 Sunil Nayyar
14\. All the folders containing books of accounts had new printouts of
computer generated A-4 Paper printouts and it clearly appeared that there was
no actual use of these vouchers in daily wav of business."
7\. It was also observed as per Form no.3CD attached to Form no.3CB (Tax audit
report), the nature of the business was mentioned as "trading/wholesaler".
There was no mention of goods in which the assessee was dealing with. The
opening as well as closing stock was shown at nil. Out of total sale and
purchases, trading of Rs.29 crores was shown upto the month of August, 2011.
As per bank statement, it was seen that all the major withdrawals were in the
name of M/s Kwality Dairy India Ltd. while all the major deposits other than
cash were in the names of other five persons.
8\. In view of above, the AO estimated profit @5% on the GTO.
9\. Before the ld. CIT (A), the assessee submitted the explanation rebutting
each and every point flagged by the AO while making addition @5% of GTO.
1\. "The assessee is dealing in wholesale trading of milk. The business module
of assessee is that he collects milk directly from milk plants by way of
container/tanker and further sells the same container/tanker to the various
wholesale milk suppliers of different areas operating from Uttar Pradesh,
Rajasthan and Haryana as per the business requirements. The role of the
assessee is to assist the milk plant in distribution of surplus milk to
various wholesale suppliers and to collect the payment. The milk plants have
to take the assistance of such distributors so as to minimize the wastage and
to ensure the distribution of surplus milk which is left out after preparation
of various milk products & other items.
5 ITA No. 6168/Del/2016 &
CO No. 9/Del/2017 Sunil Nayyar
2\. As the role of the assessee is limited so the corresponding profit are
also very limited. The profit rate is also marginal because the risk involved
is negligible because most of the time purchase is made only after negotiating
the corresponding sale. However the profit rate commensurate with the other
distributor of the same trade in whose case profit rate stand accepted by the
department under section 143(3) of the Act, particularly in the same charge.
3\. Though the assessee is trading in an unorganized sector of milk trading
but even then most of its purchase and sale is through banking channel and is
supported by regular bills.
4\. The assessee is regularly maintaining books of accounts, in accordance
with section 44AA of the Income Tax Act. 1961, which stand duly audited under
section 44AB. The books of accounts were produced before the A.O. many a times
and the A.O. has also affirmed these facts on page 4 of the order wherein it
is mentioned "on 25.03.2015, the A.R appeared and produced books of accounts".
5\. On the basis of books of accounts maintained in the regular course of
business, the assessee filled return of income declaring net taxable income of
Rs. 3,48,243 on 10/10,2013. The A.O. has made following addition:
i. Addition of Rs 2,79,61,917, by applying net presumptive profit rate of 5%
ii. Addition of Rs. 51,00,000, by rejecting trade debtors. iii. Addition of
Rs. 88,38,110, by holding balances of sundry creditors as in genuine.
6 ITA No. 6168/Del/2016 &
CO No. 9/Del/2017 Sunil Nayyar The additions made are discussed sequential in
the subsequent paragraphs:
10\. Addition of Rs. 2,79,61,917 by applying presumptive profit rate of 5%.
The AO has made addition of Rs.2,79,61,917/- by applying profit rate of 5% to
the total turnover, without rejecting books of accounts in terms of section
145(3) & without pointing out any "defects" in the books of accounts and
without bringing any cogent or credible material on record which has any nexus
to the estimation of Income. AO has mention the following objections in the
assessment order:
1\. Soft copy of Books was not filled:
Rebuttal: First objection of A.O. is that the assessee has given hard copies
of books of accounts but he has not produced soft copy of books of accounts.
In this regard it is submitted that the assessee is maintaining his accounts
on a specialized computer software called 'Tally" and copy of these accounts
can be transferred only when the corresponding computer of the recipient is
also equipped with the same version of the "Tally" software. Since the AO did
not have facility of 'tally software' so the soft copy could not be handed
over to him. However, hard copies of books of accounts was produced and
acknowledged by the AO.
2\. Purchase/sale bills are computer generated and appeared to be new:
Rebuttal: The objection of the A.O. is that purchase and sale bill are
computer generated and appears to be very neat and dean as if these have not
passed many hands. In this regard it is submitted that original sales bill are
handed over to the buyer and the receipt is invariably taken on the trading
invoice which is also used by the truck driver for  7 ITA No. 6168/Del/2016 &
CO No. 9/Del/2017 Sunil Nayyar transportation purpose. But to furnish evidence
during assessment proceedings that fresh copy of sales bills were taken out
from computer and produced before AO for verification. Similarly purchase
bills are only from few wholesale suppliers and these being very small in
number the assessee has maintained them in a very neat and clean manner. In
any case clarity of bills and its due preservance cannot be termed as
"defects" within the meaning of section 145(3) of the Act.
3\. Tanker Numbers not written on some of the Sale Bills: Rebuttal: The A.O.
has a concern that the tanker no. is not mentioned in some of the
Purchase/Sales bills. In this regard it is submitted that the assessee has
duly mentioned vehicle number on each purchase bill/sale bill. There may be
some omission in one or the two bills but as a matter of routine all the
purchase and sale bills bear tanker number. More so each Purchase/Sale bills
is also supported by delivery challan, where in tanker number is also
mentioned. Goods cannot be transported unless the container is accompanied
with sale bill or delivery challan wherein tanker number is duly mentioned.
Copy of purchase/sale bill and delivery challan of each month is submitted
here with.
4\. Purchase/Sale Bills are Serial Numbered:
Rebuttal: The next objection of A.O. is that some of the Purchase bills are
serial numbered, though these purchases are made from different persons. In
this regard it is submitted that the bulk purchase is made by the assessee
from few whole sale dealers, who issue regular bills which obviously have
different serial number. But small quantity of milk is also purchased from
villagers who do not have facility for issuing proper bills. In order to
systematically account for these purchases assessee has printed his own
purchase voucher which he calls as "retail purchase bills". All these purchase
bills are serial numbered and are progressing in  8 ITA No. 6168/Del/2016 & CO
No. 9/Del/2017 Sunil Nayyar accordance with the day. Whenever the assessee
purchases milk from retail milk sellers he records the purchases on this
serial numbered voucher for accounting purpose and also obtains the signature
of retail milk vendor. This is a correct accounting system which all the
traders are adopting uniformly to record the retail purchase. There being no
infirmities in the accounting treatments so the objection of the AO is without
any basis.
5\. Purchase/Sales bills do not contained signature of the recipient:
Rebuttal: The objection of the A.O. is that Sales bills do not contained
signature of the recipient. In this regard it is submitted that when goods are
transported these are invariably accompanied with "delivery challan". For the
purpose of smooth accounting the assessee has adopted a uniform policy to get
the signature on these delivery challan rather than Sales bills. Copy of two
delivery challan of sales bills of each month are submitted here with.
6\. Non maintenance of voucher in respect of transport bills: Rebuttal: The
A.O. has expressed concern about non maintenance of voucher in respect of
transport bills of Rs. 32,78,560. It is submitted that the observation of the
A.O. is erroneous because vouchers in respect of all the transportation
expenses have duly been maintained by the assessee and were produced before
the AO, but regular transport Bilties could not be produced. In this regard it
is submitted that the precise business of the assessee is to purchase a
container load of milk from milk plant and to supply the same to the whole
sale distributor of milk of various places. In order to minimize the wastage
of stock and to ensure the supply in the minimum possible time the tanker,
which start from the place of whole sale distributer is directly diverted to
the place of  9 ITA No. 6168/Del/2016 & CO No. 9/Del/2017 Sunil Nayyar
prospective buyer of milk. In the process transport charges are shared by the
assessee and by the prospective buyer, but the container is not changed to
avoid wastage and spoilage of stock. However, for the proportionate expenses
regular vouchers are maintained. In each voucher Tanker number, date of
delivery, place of delivery and name of the buyer is duly recorded. More so,
these tankers are hired from tanker owners, who are specialized in the smooth
delivery of milk. Copy of these transport vouchers and month wise details of
transport expenses is submitted here with.
7\. Separate stock register is not maintained:
Rebuttal: The A.O. has expressed a concern that separate stock register is not
maintained. In this regard it is submitted that the assessee is maintaining
its account on specialized accounting software called "Tally" where day to day
quantitative detail is self-generated and embedded with the respective ledger
accounts of purchase and sales. In this software separated stock
register/Stock inventory is self-generated. Besides, the quantitative detail
is also mentioned in each purchase/sale bills. More so the nature of business
of the assessee is such that stock at the end of everyday is reduced to Nil
and the day to day stock summary can be summed up in a page or two. Copies of
stock inventory as generated from Tally software and stock summary is
submitted here with.
8\. Cash Book is not produced:
Rebuttal: The AO has mentioned that the cash book is not produced. This
finding of AO is against the factual position. The assessee is preparing its
account on computerized software called "Tally" in which cash book, ledger and
other associated accounts are generated automatically and these cannot be
separated from one another. In a  10 ITA No. 6168/Del/2016 & CO No. 9/Del/2017
Sunil Nayyar simple accounting system maintained on the computer, cash book is
simultaneously generated along with the ledger. More so the A.O, has even
pointed out defects in the cash book and has also made addition of
Rs.51,00,000/- on account of cash sale which he has found from cash book. In
these circumstances it cannot be said that cash book has not produced. The
cash book is produced before the ld. CIT (A).
9\. Payment received through RTGS:
Rebuttal: The next infirmity pointed out by the A.O. is that the assessee has
received/made payments in the bank not through cheques but through RTGS. In
this regard, it is submitted that RTGS is a method of transfer money through
banking channel which is equivalent to transfer by cheques rather it is
supported by a cheques. It is a regular method employed by all the businessman
and all the banking channel throughout the country and by any stretch of
imagination it cannot be equated with the "defect" within the meaning of
section 145(3).
10\. Books of accounts appears to be new:
Rebuttal: The objection of the A.O. is that prints of books of accounts is new
and are on A4 paper sheet. The assessee had very many times submitted to the
A.O. that accounts are maintained on computer in software called tally and no
hardcopy is preserved for day to day use. It is only when the A.O. has asked
for hard copies of books of accounts that fresh print out were taken out.
These fresh print out simply goes on to add on the clarity of the financial
transactions and do not in any way inhibits the AO from deducing the true and
correct profit.
11\. IN Form 3CD nature of business is written "Wholesale Trader":
11 ITA No. 6168/Del/2016 &
CO No. 9/Del/2017 Sunil Nayyar Rebuttal: Objection of A.O. is that the tax
auditor has mentioned the nature of business as "trading/whole seller" and he
has not specified the goods to be traded. In this regard it is submitted that
as per Rule 6G(2) the Tax Auditor is required to file a report in the Form No.
3CD prescribed in the Income Tax Rules. The form nowhere makes it mandatory
for the Chartered Accountant to mention the exact nature of the commodity.
Copy of the relevant form was submitted before the ld. CIT (A). Irrespective
of the controversy nature of trade was duly explained to the A.O. and he has
himself incorporated the same in the body of the order.
12\. In the Audit report Opening as well as Closing stock is Nil: Rebuttal:
Objection of Ld. A.O. is that, in the tax audit report opening as well as
closing stock is mentioned as Nil. In this regard it is submitted that the
assessee is dealing in perishable goods (milk), so opening as well as closing
stock is bound to be 'Nil' almost every day. When the opening as well as
closing stock is nil, naturally the tax auditor has to confirm the factual
position so he has rightly written as Nil. There being no abnormality in the
observations so the same cannot be construed as "defects" within the meaning
of section 145(3).
13\. There are Credit Purchase and Sale upto 09.09.2011: Rebuttal: Next
objection of Ld. A.O. is that the bank account was opened on 09.09.11 but
before that assessee has made credit purchase and credit sale of Rs. 29.00
Crore. In this regard it is submitted that this was the first year of the
assessee, so at the initial level all the purchases/and sales were made on
credit basis excepting a fraction of amount. However these credit purchase and
sales were realized/paid in the subsequent months through banking channel and
these also form part of the total purchase and sale recorded in the books of
accounts. Copy of  12 ITA No. 6168/Del/2016 & CO No. 9/Del/2017 Sunil Nayyar
purchase/sale ledger for the relevant period reflecting the credit purchase
and credit sale and its subsequent realization through banking channel were
submitted. Copy of relevant bank account clearly showing the realization arid
payment of these credit sale/purchase is also submitted. All the purchases
have been made from the milk plant which is a listed company similarly all the
sales were made to the established dealers. Confirmations in respect all these
credit purchase and sales upto August 2011 were duly furnished to the AO. Copy
is submitted again before the ld. CIT (A).
As the credit purchase/sale made up to August 2011 stands paid through banking
channel In the subsequent months and are part of the regular books of accounts
submitted before AO, so non opening of bank account and making credit purchase
and sale upto August 2011 cannot be construed as "Defect" within the meaning
of section 145(3) of IT ACT 1961\.
14\. Withdrawal and Deposit in the Bank account through Cheques:
Rebuttal: Next objection of A.O. is that major withdrawals are in the name of
M/s Kwality Dairy India Ltd and the major deposits are in the name of some
customers in the bank, account, but purpose of such payments is not known. In
this regard it is submitted that in any business system payments are received
against the sale proceeds from the customers, which the AO has termed as
deposits. Similarly every business man makes payments against the sales to the
supplier which the AO has termed as "withdrawal". However, the name and full
particular of the person from whom payments have been received or made in lieu
of purchase and sales is duly mentioned in the bank account itself already
submitted to the AO.
13 ITA No. 6168/Del/2016 &
CO No. 9/Del/2017 Sunil Nayyar
15\. No Business has been carried out:
Rebuttal: On the basis of above objections, which are basically cosmetic in
nature AO has drawn a conclusion "that no business has been carried out". What
AO is concluding is that all the purchase and sale through banking transaction
and subsequent verification from the respective parties are not genuine and in
fact no business has been carried out. In this regard following submission is
made.
(a) Business Involves comprehensive activities which inter alia includes
purchase of goods, sale of goods, payment through banking transaction, credit
purchase and credit sale. Further this activity as per the requirement of law
has to be recorded in the books of accounts strictly in accordance with the
provision of section 44AA and shall be audited by the tax auditor under
section 44AB. The assesse has complied with all these provisions of the law
and the AO has not found any "defect" or infirmity or irregularity in these
documents. But even in the presence of these documents maintained in the
regular course of business, the AO has negated the entire business process.
(b) The business activity resulted into profit and the assessee has paid due
taxes on the income declared in the return for the year. It is also submitted
that in the business activities there is neither any unsecured loan nor any
accumulation/transfer of money by way of any other mode. The creditors/debtors
of the year stand settled during the year itself or at the best in the very
next assessment year at the earliest possible.
(c) The AO has been very selective in negating the business activities. Thus
he has accepted the sundry creditors worth Rs.24,17,14,924/- and sundry
debtors worth Rs.24,50,13,470/-. Sundry debtors and sundry creditors are one
of the business constituents rather a very important  14 ITA No. 6168/Del/2016
& CO No. 9/Del/2017 Sunil Nayyar part of the business. When the major
constituent of the business activity stands accepted how the AO can negate
rest of the business.
(d) The assessee has made total sale of Rs.86,65,83,719/-. The AO has accepted
the sale proceeds realized through banking channel, but has made addition for
the realization of sale proceed by way of cash which were deposited in the
bank account. Thus the sales realized through banking channel stands accepted.
(e) If for argument sake it is taken that no business activity has been
carried out, the obvious question arises what for the profit rate has been
applied. Profit invariably follows the commercial activity. When there is no
business or commercial activity, in that event there cannot be any profit. The
assessee has duly carried out business activity; shown profit there on and has
paid taxes on such business profit.
(f) More so the Act makes it incumbent upon the AO to examine the business
activities with reference to books of accounts. Books of accounts are evidence
under the Indian Evidence Act and these cannot be conveniently ignored. The AO
is entitled to find facts in the books of accounts reject them under section
145(3) and can proceed to estimate the income as per procedure laid down in
the Act. But the statute do not empower the AO to simply ignore the books of
accounts and the entire business process without pointing out any major
"accounting defect" which inhibits him in deducing the true and correct
profit. Obviously the action of the AO in ignoring the books of accounts and
the total business process and there after making estimations of profit
without any basis is highly irrational, illegal and bad in law.
11\. The assessee further relied on the various legal aspects of the addition
made under section 145(3) which are as under:
15 ITA No. 6168/Del/2016 &
CO No. 9/Del/2017 Sunil Nayyar Where the Assessing Officer is not satisfied
about the correctness or completeness of the accounts of the assessee, or
where the method of accounting provided in sub-section (1), has not been
regularly followed by the assessee, or income has not been computed in
accordance with the standards notified under sub-section (2), the Assessing
Officer may make an assessment in the manner provided in section 144". The
section 145(3) thus allows a reasonable right to the AO to estimate the
income, but at the same time section cast several obligations on the AO. These
obligations which are mandatory in nature are discussed in the following
paragraphs:
i. REJECTION OF BOOKS OF ACCOUNTS IS MANDATORY BEFORE ESTIMATION.
At the outset section cast an obligation on the AO that before resorting to
estimation under section 145(3) it is incumbent upon him to reject the books
of accounts. It is an established judicial preposition that estimation of
income under section 145(3) cannot be made unless the books of accounts of the
assessee are rejected in clear terms and the assessment is framed in the
manner provided under section 144. ITO vs Anil Kumar & Co., ITA No.
20001/2014, Karnataka. Without rejecting the books of accounts or pointing out
incompletion or inaccuracy in the accounts, AO cannot invoke section 145(3).
M/s Paras Dying and printing Mil! 4 ITR 24 KHT.
In the given case, the assessee has maintained regular books of accounts which
were duly audited by tax auditor and these books of accounts were also
produced before AO. The AO has not rejected these books of accounts rather
ignored these books of accounts and proceeded  16 ITA No. 6168/Del/2016 & CO
No. 9/Del/2017 Sunil Nayyar to make estimations. The action of AO is obviously
arbitrary, illegal and bad in law, so addition made needs to be deleted.
ii. TO POINT OUT CLEAR DEFECTS IN THE BOOKS OF ACCOUNTS In order to reject the
books of accounts in section 145(3) makes it obligatory and incumbent upon the
AO to point out and elaborate the "defects" in the books of accounts. The
section further limits the scope of word "defect" used in the section and
defines that the "defects" shall be of such nature, which prevents the AO from
calculating the true and correct profit of the assessee. The definition is
embedded in the phrase "Income cannot be properly deduced from the accounts
maintained by the assesse". The AO has not pointed out any such accounting
defects in the books of accounts which have any financial implication or
impediment in the calculation the true and correct profit. The objection of
the AO, regarding clarity of purchase voucher making payment through RTGS and
other objections do not fall under the scope and ambit of specified definition
of the word "defect" as envisaged under section 145(3). These are vague and
general observations which have hardly any financial implication on the
trading results, trading profit or overall returned profit of the assessee.
iii. TO GIVE A CLEAR FINDING IN THE ASSESSMENT ORDER The section cast another
obligation on the AO. The mandate of the section not only makes it incumbent
on the AO that before estimation of income, he should reject the books of
accounts in clear terms, but the section also make it obligatory on the part
of the AO to record a clear satisfaction in the body of assessment order in a
clear language that "he is not satisfied that accounts are correct or complete
and true profit cannot be deduced from such account", "if there is no finding
that there was material before the AO to lead him to the conclusion that a
proper  17 ITA No. 6168/Del/2016 & CO No. 9/Del/2017 Sunil Nayyar statement of
income, could not be deduced, in that event AO is not entitled to estimate the
profit". Chhabildas Shah vs. CIT 59 ITR 733 (SC).
a. In the case of Pandit Brothers vs. CIT 26 ITR 159 (Pun) Hon'ble supreme
court has as explained the basic principles for invoking section 145(3) and
has clarified in clear terms that unless a clear satisfaction with regard to
inaccuracy of books of accounts is recorded in absolute terms in the body of
assessment order, the assessment framed is bad in law. While explaining the
principle Apex Court has observed "If there is no definite finding in the
order that in his opinion the income, profits and gains could not properly be
deduced there from, in that event assessment framed is bad in law.
b. The AO has neither rejected books of accounts nor pointed out any
accounting defects and has also not recorded any satisfaction in the body of
assessment order with regard to inaccuracy of accounts as such assessment
framed is bad in law.
iv. BASIS OF ESTIMATION OF PROFIT Once book results were rejected in terms of
provisions of sec. 145(3) of the Act, it is not the ipse dixit of the AO to
compute the income either u/s 144(1) or sec. 145(3) the computation and
determination of income cannot be at the whims and fancies of A.O. There must
be in existence relevant material or evidence, for making estimation of
income. CIT Vs Daulat Ram Rawatmul 87 ITR 349 (S.C). However, the A.O. has not
placed on records any material or evidence or the basis of his estimation. In
fact, A.O. has not given even a single reason for estimating the income and
for making such a huge addition.
18 ITA No. 6168/Del/2016 &
CO No. 9/Del/2017 Sunil Nayyar V. CONFRONTING THE BASIS OF ESTIMATION TO THE
ASSESSEE The section cast another obligation on the AO that before making any
estimation of income, he should confront the assessee with the material or
evidence or basis of estimation of income. The obligation is embedded in the
phrase "May make an assessment in the manner provided in section 144". The
phrase obviously means if the AO has chosen to make estimation under section
145(3) then he has to observe all the conditions which are stipulated in
section 144, which inter-alia includes confronting the material or the basis
of estimation to the assessee. The AO has not confronted any such material or
evidence to the assessee. Rather he has chosen to ignore the material or
evidence which includes comparable cases and other factors. Thus the addition
made is against the provisions of the law.
The Explicit provision of the law vis-à-vis facts of the case are discussed in
the order of the ld. CIT (A) with reference to grounds of appeal in the
following paragraphs:
At the outset, the section provides that the accounts which are regularly
maintained in the course of business and are duly audited, free from any
qualification by the auditors, should normally be taken as correct unless
there are adequate reasons to indicate that they are incorrect or unreliable.
If there was no challenge to the transactions represented in the books, then
it is not open to the Department to contend that what was shown by the entries
is not the real state of affairs. CIT v. Vikrarn Plastics [1999] 239 ITR
161(Guj). Thus section 45(1) cast an obligation on the AO to compute income in
accordance with books of accounts maintained during the course of business.
CIT v A. Krishna Swamy 53 ITR 122 (SC), CIT v Mcmelan & Co. 33 ITR 182.
Suspicion, however strong it may be, is no ground for the AO for invoking the
provisions of  19 ITA No. 6168/Del/2016 & CO No. 9/Del/2017 Sunil Nayyar
section 145(3) of the Act", Thus the AO in any circumstances cannot ignore the
books of accounts, though he can reject the same. What the AO has done that he
has conveniently ignored the books of accounts as if these do not exist and
has resorted to estimations without rejecting the books.
More so, while ignoring the books of accounts AO has been selective. Thus he
has examined sundry creditors/debtors and has disallowed substantial amount
out of these while placing reliance in the books of accounts. But when it
comes to calculation of profit he has simply ignored the books of accounts,
which is apparently not permissible under the law. Similarly, the AO has
accepted the sales in respect of which proceeds have been realized through
banking channel, but he has added back the amount of sales in respect of which
proceeds were realized by way of cash. Thus the AO has been selective in
accepting and rejecting the books of accounts and the business process as a
whole which is in fact not permissible under the law. Action of AO is highly
arbitrary, against the spirit of law and the assessment framed is bad in law.
ii. ESTIMATION WITHOUT REJECTING BOOKS.
The assessee had been maintaining regular books of account, which were duly
audited by an independent chartered accountant. The financial results were
fully supported with vouchers and the books of account which were complete and
correct in air respects. These books of accounts and the supporting materials
were duly produced before the AO. However the AO has neither pointed out any
material defects in the books of accounts, nor rejected the same but has
proceeded to make addition under section 145(3).
20 ITA No. 6168/Del/2016 &
CO No. 9/Del/2017 Sunil Nayyar "Without enlisting the defects, incompletion
and inaccuracies in the accounts of the assessee, AO cannot expressively or
otherwise, invoke the provisions of section 145(3) of the Act. When no
specific discrepancies or defects in the books of account of the assessee has
been pointed out nor was any material brought to establish that purchases were
inflated or receipts suppressed, there is no justification in invoking the
provisions of section 145 of the Act, M/s Paras Dyeing and Printing Mills P
Ltd 004 ITR (Trib) 0029 (Ahd).
"It is well settled that without rejecting the books of accounts maintained by
the assessee by pointing out specific material defects therein, the results
declared by the assessee on the basis of such books cannot be disturbed.
Gajanan Traders Rubber Co. Pvt. Ltd. vs. ACIT ITA No. 4980/Del/2004.
Action of the Assessing Officer clearly demonstrates that he could not gather
any details or find any irregularity in maintenance of the books. It was also
established beyond doubt that Assessing Officer could not quantify any specify
amount of expenditure for disallowance. A minor irregularity cannot be blown
out of proportion to resort a convenient approach of the rejection of the book
results". Dhakeswari Cotton Mills Ltd. Vs CIT (1954) 26 ITR.
"Insignificant mistake cannot afford a ground for resorting to section 145(3)
or estimation of income. So long as it is not impossible to deduce the true
income from the accounts maintained by the assessee, its computation cannot be
made in any other way". CIT v Padamchand Ramgopal (1970) 76 ITR 719 (SC).
"In order to reject the account the AO has to establish that income cannot be
properly deduced from the accounts maintained by the  21 ITA No. 6168/Del/2016
& CO No. 9/Del/2017 Sunil Nayyar assessee. In order to arrive at such a
conclusion, it must be shown that the Assessing' Officer has taken into
consideration the various factors and has not omitted to consider the
materials before him. It is for the AO to establish the incompleteness or
incorrectness of the accounts. Unless the AO perform his duty the books of
accounts cannot be rejected". Ashok Refractories Pvt. Ltd. (279 ITR 457)
(Cal.) When the books of accounts of the assessee had not been rejected and
assessment having not been framed under section 144 of the Income Tax Act the
said authorities were in error in resorting to an estimation of income and
such exercise undertaken by them was not sustainable. ITO vs M/S Anil Kumar &
Co I.T.A. No.200001/2014, Karnataka "The AO cannot base its findings on
suspicions, conjectures or surmises, nor can it act on improper rejection of
materials partly on evidence and partly suspicions, conjectures or surmises
and if it so does, the finding is required to be set aside". In Omar Salay
Moharned Sait v. CIT [1959] 37 ITR 151 (SC).
In the instant case the Assessing Officer has not rejected the books of
accounts of the assessee. To put it differently the Assessing Officer has not
made out a case that conditions Said down in Section 145(3) of the Act are
satisfied for rejection of the books of accounts. Thus, the action of AO in
resorting to estimation without rejecting books is arbitrary and against the
explicit provisions of the Act.
III. TO POINT OUT SPECIFIC DEFECTS IN THE BOOKS.
a. It is the settled law that unless the A.O. points out specific defects in
the Books of accounts, to the extent which make it impossible or difficult for
the AO to deduce the correct profit, books of accounts cannot  22 ITA No.
6168/Del/2016 & CO No. 9/Del/2017 Sunil Nayyar be rejected. Further the scope
and limitation of the word "defect" has been define in the section itself.
Thus the section defines "that the defects in the books of accounts" shall be
such which establishes that "income cannot be properly deduced form the
accounts". The AO has not pointed out any such accounting defects in the books
of accounts. The general objections of the AO regarding cleanliness of the
bills, payment through RTGS and non-production of soft copy of books of
accounts do not fall under the ambit of definition of word "defect", as
envisaged under section 145(3). These objections do not inhibits or come in
the way of determining or calculating the correct profit.
b. "Without enlisting the defects, incompletion and inaccuracies in the
accounts of the assessee, AO cannot expressively or otherwise, invoke the
provisions of section 145(3) of the Act. Mr. K.N. Ramchandra Naidu vs. CIT ITA
No. 47 /PNJ/2013. Without pointing out any such defect in the account books or
bringing on record instances of unrecorded production or unrecorded sales, or
any other infirmity or definite defect which has specific bearing on
calculation of profit from the books of accounts, of accounts cannot be
rejected by applying provisions of section 145(3)". DCIT Vs. Associated Stone
Industries Limited 22 TW 155 (Jaipur).
c. Where the defects pointed out in the books of accounts were of general or
technical nature and no suppression of sale or purchase was pointed out book
results or books of accounts cannot be rejected". Vadayattu Jewellery Vs.
State of Kerala (1997) 104 STC 121, (Ker.). The department has to prove
satisfactorily that the accounts books are unreliable, incorrect or incomplete
before it can reject the accounts. Rejection should not be done lightly". St.
TerrsaOil Mills vs. State of Kerala (1970) 76 UR 365 (KER.).
23 ITA No. 6168/Del/2016 &
CO No. 9/Del/2017 Sunil Nayyar d. "In the case of ACIT Vs. Hitech Grain
Processing Pvt. Ltd. in ITA No. 2885/Del/2011, Hon'bie Delhi High Court has
held that since the AO had not pointed out any defects in the books of account
and the accounts were also not rejected by the AO, therefore, no addition
could have been made by the AO. The same view point has been endorsed by
Kerala High Court in the case of [Addl. ITO Vs Ponkunnam Traders (1976) 102
ITR 366 (Ker)]."
e. "When no specific discrepancies or defects in the books of account of the
assessee has been pointed out nor was any material brought to establish that
purchases were inflated or receipts suppressed, there Is no justification in
invoking the provisions of section 145 of the Act, M/s Paras Dyeing and
Printing Mills P Ltd 004 ITR (Trib) 0029 (Ahd).
f. "Thus, the scope of the provisions of section 145 conclusive establishing
the fact that, what is important for rejection of books is the AO being not
satisfied about the correctness or completeness of the accounts and it is for
the AO to establish the incompleteness or incorrectness of the accounts of the
assesse", Ashok Refractories Pvt. Ltd (279 ITR 457) Calcutta High Court.
g. "The power to reject the books of accounts under section 145(3) arises only
if the AO is satisfy that there is a major defect in the books of accounts
which comes in the way of determining the actual profit". DCIT v. Associated
Petroleum Corporation [2011] 44 SOT 45 (Ahd.), ITA No. 47 /PNJ/2013.
h. In CIT v. Amitbhai Gunvantbhai [1981] 129 ITR 573 (Gut.), the Hon'ble
jurisdictional High Court has held that the basic principle is the same in law
relating to income-tax as well as in civil law, namely, if there is no
challenge to the transaction represented by the entries, then it is  24 ITA
No. 6168/Del/2016 & CO No. 9/Del/2017 Sunil Nayyar not open to the revenue or
other side to contend that what is shown by the entries is not the real state
of affairs.
12\. The AO has not pointed out any accounting defects in the books of
accounts. Rather he is summarily ignored the books of accounts but has
proceeded to invoke the rigour of section 145(3) which is bad in law.
IV. RECORDING A CLEAR SATISFACTION IN THE ASSTT. ORDER a. The settled legal
preposition is that before assuming jurisdiction under section 145(3) or
resorting to "Estimation" A.O. has to record a dear and definite satisfaction
in the body of assessment order, that "He is satisfied that the accounts are
not correct or complete and true profit cannot be deduced from such accounts.
If, there is no finding that there was material before the AO to lead him to
the conclusion that a proper statement of income, profits and gains could not
be deduced from the material placed before him, in that event he is not
entitled to estimate the profit. Pandit Bros. vs CIT 26 ITR 159 (P&H) b. The
above principle was also affirmed by the supreme court in the case of
Chhabildas Tribhuvandas Shah v. CIT [1966] 59 ITR 733 (SC) wherein it was held
"What we have to see is whether there is any finding that the income, profits
and gains cannot properly be deduced. "We are not concerned with the
correctness of the conclusion and we are only concerned with the question
whether there is any material in support of the finding or not".
c. However the AO has not recorded any such satisfaction in the body of
assessment order before making huge addition of Rs. 2.79 crore. As no cogent
reason has been advanced by the A.O. for rejecting the accounts, the rejection
and subsequent estimation of income is bad in law. CIT V. S.R. FRAGNACES LTD.,
270 ITR 560."In the absence of  25 ITA No. 6168/Del/2016 & CO No. 9/Del/2017
Sunil Nayyar specific finding on the part of A.O, that the true profit cannot
be ascertained from the accounts of the assessee book results cannot be
disturbed" CIT VS JAYALAXMI TRADING COMPANY 2014 ITR 660 MAT.
d. Section 145 requires the Assessing Officer to give a finding as to whether
method of accounting adopted by the assessee is such that it will not enable
the Assessing Officer to compute the income of the assessee correctly or that
there are serious defects in the maintenance of accounts which will not enable
the Assessing Officer to work out the income of the assessee. Without these
findings book result cannot be disturbed. K.N. Ramchandra Naidu vs. CIT ITA
No. 47 /PNJ/ e. "If there is no finding that books of accounts are incomplete
or incorrect, accounts cannot be rejected. "CIT v. Rajni Kant Dave [2006] 281
ITR 6 (Ali)", if there is no finding that income could not be deduced from the
accounts maintained by the assessee, then rejection of accounts would be
invalid, "Juggilai Kamlapat Udyog Ltd. v. CIT [2005] 278 ITR 522 (Cal,)".
Unless there is a finding against the assessee that his income, profits and
gains could not properly be deduced from his method of accounting which he has
been regularly employing, the accounts cannot be disturbed. "P. Venkanna v.
CIT [1969] 72 ITR 328".
f. Hon'ble jurisdictional High Court, in the case of Bastiram Narayandas
Maheswari (210 ITR 438), held that it is the settled law that the books cannot
be rejected u/s 145 of the act and resort to best judgment assessment, unless
the AO record any finding that the books of accounts maintained by the
assessee are incorrect rendering it impossible to deduce the profits, AO needs
to indicate that he noticed any inconsistency or infirmity in the Audit
report. Madnani Construction corporation P Ltd vs CIT (296 ITR 0045)
(Gauhati).
26 ITA No. 6168/Del/2016 &
CO No. 9/Del/2017 Sunil Nayyar
13\. The Assessing Officer has neither given any finding about rejection of
books nor is it discernible from his order, the working of his mind for
rejection of the books. However without rejecting he has proceeded in
estimating the profit. The conduct of the AO is obviously arbitrary and
against the explicit provisions of the act".
V. APPLYING PROFIT RATE WITHOUT EVIDENCE a. The AO has estimated the profit by
applying profit rate of 5% without bringing an, cogent material or evidence on
record. It is a settled legal preposition that once the books of accounts are
rejected, then, profit has to be estimated on the basis of proper material or
evidence. AO is not entitled to make a pure guess and make assessment without
reference to evidence or any material at all. There must be something more
than mere suspicion to support the addition. Sheth Gurmukh Singh vs. CIT
(1944) 12 ITR 393.
b. The rule of law on this subject has been well settled that estimate framed
without giving the basis for their fixation is bad in law. Dhakeswari Cotton
Mills Ltd. vs. CIT (1954) 26 ITR 775. In the case of Brijbhusnan Lal Praduma
Kumar v CIT [1978] 115 ITR 524 the Apex Court held an estimate, must not be
capricious but should have a reasonable nexus to the available material and
the circumstances of the case. Same view has been taken in the case of State
of Kerala vs. C. Velukutty [1996] 60 ITR 239 (SC).
c. The principal has also been elucidated by the Apex court In the case of
State of Kerala vs. C. Velukutty [1966] 60 ITR 239 (SC) wherein the following
observations have been made. "The limits of the power are implicit in the
expression 'best of his judgment'. Judgment is a faculty to decide matters
with wisdom, truly and legally. Judgment does not  27 ITA No. 6168/Del/2016 &
CO No. 9/Del/2017 Sunil Nayyar depend upon the arbitrary caprice of a judge,
but on settled and invariable principles of justice. Though there is an
element of guess-work in a 'best judgment' assessment, it shall not be a wild
one, but shall have a reasonable nexus to the available material and the
circumstances of each case."
d. The above principal has been confirmed by the honorable Supreme Court in
number of judgment. Thus, in the case of Kachwala Gems Vs JCIT, 288 ITR 10
(2007)(SC). The apex court has held "after rejection of book results, AO
should try to make an honest and fair estimate of the income even in a best
judgment assessment and should not act totally arbitrarily, the AO should
adopt a method which must reflect the profits truly and justly [Gemini
Pictures Ltd. vs CIT (1958) 33 ITR 547 (Mad).] For estimating the profit, the
AO can always have a look at the margin returned in comparable cases or even
in assessee's own case in the preceding years.
e. The Hon'ble Rajasthan High Court in CIT vs. Gotan Lime Khanij Udhyog (2001)
256 ITR 243 (Raj) held that the books of account together with past history of
the case as also material collected should be considered for estimation of
income. The past history is the best guide where provisions of s. 145(3) of
the Act are invoked as held in Ajay Goyal vs. ITO (2006) 99 TTJ (Jd) 164,
Madan Lal vs. ITO (2006) 99 110 (Jd) 538, CIT vs. Popular Electric Co, (P)
Ltd. (1993) 203 ITR 630(Cal) and M.A Rauf vs. CIT (1958) 33 ITR 843 (Pat).,
i.e., law in respect of assessments made on the basis of best judgment or
estimate is well-settled. Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of, lays down that
while making the 'best judgment' assessment, no doubt, should arrive at its
conclusion without any bias and on rational basis. That authority should not
be vindictive or capricious.
28 ITA No. 6168/Del/2016 &
CO No. 9/Del/2017 Sunil Nayyar f. Once book results were rejected in terms of
provisions of sec. 145(3) of the Act, it is not the ipse dixit of the AO to
compute the income either u/s 144(1) or sec. 145(3) of the Act, or the
computation and determination of income can be at the whims and fancies of the
AO, Commissioner of Sales Tax v. H. M. Esufali H. M. Abdulali [1973] 90 ITR
271 (SC).
g. In S. M. Hasan, STO v. New Gramophone House, AIR 1977 SC 1788, a Division
Bench of the Hon'ble Supreme Court held that, "if the conditions for the best
judgment assessment are present, the Assessing Officer will make it not on
speculative or fanciful grounds, but on reasonable guess since the best
judgment assessment does not negate the exercise of judgment on the part of
the officer, a fax officer who makes a best judgment assessment should make an
Intelligent well-grounded estimate rather than launch upon pure surmises".
h. In the case of Kachwala Gems Vs JCIT, 288 ITR 10 (2007)(SC). The apex court
has held ''after rejection of book results, AO should try to make an honest
and fair estimate of the income even in a best judgment assessment and should
not act totally arbitrarily, the AO should adopt a method which must reflect
the profits truly and justly [ Gemini Pictures Ltd. vs CIT (1958) 33 ITR 547
(Mad).] i. In the instant case the AO has not given even a single reason or
even a single basis for making such a huge addition of Rs.2.5 Crore. In fact,
the AO has framed the assessment on the basis conjuncture, surmises and
supposition. The AO has apparently ignored the basic principal laid down in
aforesaid decision for estimating profit and has simply resorted to guess
work. The addition made accordingly is bad in law.
29 ITA No. 6168/Del/2016 &
CO No. 9/Del/2017 Sunil Nayyar VI. ESTIMATING WITHOUT CONFRONTING MATERIAL TO
ASSESSEE a. A bare perusal of the provision of Section 145 read with Section
144 of the Act, clearly reflect the legislative intent that AO cannot make
assessment, without providing proper and reasonable opportunity to the
assessee. The intent and the purpose of the legislature is imbedded In the
phrase "may make assessment in the manner provided under section 144". The
Phraseology used in the section means that in case rigor of section 145(3) has
been invoked in that case AO has to follow all the rules which are applicable
in framing the assessment under section 144. These rules inter- alia includes
confronting the assessee the basis for rejection of books of accounts and
thereafter confronting the assessee material and evidence on the basis of
which AO is intending to make addition. Unless this basic requirement of
section 144 is not fulfilled and the AO has not given an opportunity to the
assessee to contradict the materials upon which the Assessing Officer wants to
base his estimate. Assessment framed is bad in law. Addl. ITO Vs Ponkunnam
Traders (1976) 102 ITR 366 (Ker).
b. The Definition of word material and evidence has further been elaborated by
Hon'ble Supreme Court and it has been held that though the scope of the phrase
can be wider but it can be past history of the case, subsequent history of the
case, facts of the case or the profit rate of other comparable cases.
c. The rule of law on this subject has been well settled that estimates framed
without giving the basis for their fixation or without furnishing to the
assessee the material on which basis books of accounts are being rejected or
without giving an opportunity to the assessee to rebut it are bad. Needless to
say that statutory function of AO, being quasi-judicial authority, in framing
the assessment, is guarded and guided by judicial  30 ITA No. 6168/Del/2016 &
CO No. 9/Del/2017 Sunil Nayyar considerations and accordingly, must conform to
the rules of natural justice, as held in a number of cases. The AO must act in
accordance with the principle of justice, equity and good conscience.
Dhakeshwari Cotton Mills Ltd. Vs CIT 26 ITR 775 (SC).
d. Thus the position in law is settled. The AO cannot resort to estimation
without confronting to the assessee the "defects" in the books of accounts and
"material or evidence or the basis of estimations". The AO has not discharged
his primary onus as such the assessment made is bad in law.
VII. REDUCING PROFIT RATE OF 5% TO 1%.
a. The AO has estimated the profit rate at 5% simply by conjuncture, surmises
and guess work and without any logic any relevant material on record. The
conduct of the AO is obvious from the fact that in the next very assessment
year, the AO reduced his on estimation of 5% to 1%, once again without
assigning any reason or putting any credible material on record. The arbitrary
action of the AO goes to prove that the whole exercise of making such a large
addition is nothing but wild guess works, which vary from year to year and
which has no relevance with comparable cases or with any other material or
reason for doing so. In view of the settled legal preposition addition made on
the basis of guess work may be deleted. Copy of assessment order for AY
2013-14 is on record.
b. It is the settled law that unless the A.O, points out specific defects in
the Books of accounts, to the extent which make it impossible or difficult for
the AO to deduce the correct profit, books of accounts cannot be rejected.
Further the scope and limitation of the word "defect" has been define in the
section itself. Thus the section defines "that the  31 ITA No. 6168/Del/2016 &
CO No. 9/Del/2017 Sunil Nayyar defects in the books of accounts" shall be such
which establishes that "income cannot be properly deduced form the accounts".
The AO has not pointed out any such accounting defects in the books of
accounts. The general objections of the AO regarding cleanliness of the bills,
payment through RTGS and non-production of soft copy of books of accounts do
not fall under the ambit of definition of word "defect", as envisaged under
section 145(3). These objections do not inhibits or come in the way of
determining or calculating the correct profit.
c. Without enlisting the defects, and inaccuracies in the accounts of the
assessee, AO cannot expressively or otherwise, invoke the provisions of
section 145(3) of the Act. Mr. K.N. Ramchandra Naidu vs. CIT, ITA No.
47/PNJ/2013. Without pointing out any such defect in the account books or
bringing on record instances of unrecorded production or unrecorded sales, or
any other infirmity or definite defect which has specific bearing on
calculation of profit from the books of accounts, of accounts cannot be
rejected by applying provisions of section 145(3). DCIT Vs Associated Stone
Industries Limited 22 TW 155 (Jaipur).
d. Where the defects pointed out in the books of accounts were of general or
technical nature and no suppression of sale or purchase was pointed out book
results or books of accounts cannot be rejected". Vadayattu Jewellery Vs.
State of Kerala (1997) 104 SIC 121, (Ker.).The department has to prove
satisfactorily that the accounts books are unreliable, incorrect or incomplete
before it can reject the accounts. Rejection should not be done lightly". St.
TerrsaOil Mills vs. State of Kerala (1970) 76 ITR 365 (KER.).
e. "In the case of ACIT Vs. Hitech Grain Processing Pvt. Ltd., ITA No.
2885/Del/2011, the Hon'ble Delhi High Court has held that since the AO  32 ITA
No. 6168/Del/2016 & CO No. 9/Del/2017 Sunil Nayyar had not pointed out any
defects in the books of account and the accounts were also not rejected by the
AO, therefore, no addition could have been made by the AO". The same view
point has been endorsed by Kerala High Court in the case of [ITO Vs. Ponkunnam
Traders (1976) 102 ITR 366 (Ker)]".
f. "When no specific discrepancies or defects in the books of account of the
assessee has been pointed out nor was any material brought to establish that
purchases were inflated or receipts suppressed, there is no justification In
invoking the provisions of section 145 of the Act, M/s Paras Dyeing and
Printing Mills P Ltd 004 ITR (Trib) 0029 (Ahd).
g. "Thus, the scope of the provisions of section 145 conclusive establishing
the fact that, what is important for rejection of books is the AO being not
satisfied about the correctness or completeness of the accounts and it is for
the AO to establish the incompleteness or incorrectness of the accounts of the
assessee". Ashok Refractories Pvt. Ltd (279 ITR 457) Calcutta High Court.
h. "The power to reject the books of accounts under section 145(3) arises only
if the AO is satisfy that there is a major defect in the books of accounts
which comes in the way of determining the actual profit", DCIT v. Associated
Petroleum Corporation [2011] 44 SOT 45 (Ahd), ITA No. 47/PNJ/2013.
i. In CIT vs. Amitbhai Gunvantbhai, [1981] 129 ITR 573 (Gut), the Hon'ble
jurisdictional High Court has held that the basic principle is the same in law
relating to income-tax as well as in civil law, namely, if there is no
challenge to the transaction represented by the entries, then it is not open
to the revenue or other side to contend that what is shown by the entries is
not the real state of affairs.
33 ITA No. 6168/Del/2016 &
CO No. 9/Del/2017 Sunil Nayyar
13\. In the instant case, the AO has not pointed out any accounting defects in
the books of accounts. Rather he is summarily ignored the books of accounts
but has proceeded to invoke section 145(3) which is bad in law."
14\. The ld. CIT (A) held that there is no doubt about the fact that the
assessee was dealing in milk on whole sale basis. All the trade creditors were
shown outstanding as on 31.03.2012 but paid in the beginning of the subsequent
year. There was no accumulation of fund either in the shape of unsecured loan
or sundry creditors. The entire sales and purchases was made through banking
channels only except marginal sale of Rs.48,89,100/. There was no purchase
made in cash. All the relevant bills/vouchers were produced before the AO for
verification. The trading activity was supported by quantitative details as
separate stock register was maintained. Regular books of account were
maintained by the assessee, which were duly audited by the tax auditor. There
was running account of trade creditors and debtors maintained by the assessee,
which can be verified from the details given by the assessee in this regard.
The AO has not considered all these facts while estimating the profit and
rejecting the books of account. On the contrary, the AO has held that no such
business was carried out by the assessee. It is not understood as to when
there was no business carried out by the assessee, then how the profit of the
same business can be estimated. I do not find any reason for rejection of
books of account, whereas, all the relevant details including books of account
were filed by the assessee before the AO for verification. There was no
specific defect pointed out by the AO in the books of account The assessee has
also given comparative chart of balance sheet/trading account for the
assessment years 2012-13 to 2015-16, which is as under:
34 ITA No. 6168/Del/2016 &
CO No. 9/Del/2017 Sunil Nayyar Comparative chart of Balance Sheet of Sunil
Nayyar Prop.
    Kumar Brothers
    Particulars   AY 2012-13    AY 2013-14    AY 2014-15    AY 2015-16
    Prop.         248,020       419,540       486,863       !593,236
    Capital
    Unsecured     Nil           Nil           Nil           Nil
    Loans
    Other         Nil           Nil           Nil           Nil
    Loans
    Trade         250,553,034   315,359,100   278,829,586   141,463,880
    Creditors
    Total         250,801,054   315,778,640   279,316,449   142,057,116
    Loan          Nil           Nil           Nil           Nil
    Advanced
    Trade         250,113,470   314,997,500   276,313,867   136,010,470
    Debtors
    Fixed         168,890       243,213       214,451       194,197
    Assets
    Cash in       406,476       440,566       483,553       451,120
    Hand
    Bank          112,218       97,361        2,304,578     5,401,328
    Balance
    Total         250,801,054   315,778,640   279,316,449   142,057,115
Comparative chart of Trading Account of Sunil Nayyar Prop. Kumar Brothers
Particulars AY 2012-13 AY 2013-14 AY 2014-15 AY 2015-16 Opening Nil Nil Nil !
Nil Stock Cash Nil Nil Nil Nil Purchase Credit 861,366,340 1,103,754,138
1,195,793,275 1,021,076,444 Purchase Direct 3,278,560 4,582,800 4,186,460
4,080,510 Expenses Gross Profit 1,938,819 2,212,500 2,538,062 2,617,504 Total
866,583,719 1,110,549,438 1,202,517,797 1,027,774,457 Cash Sales 4,889,100 Nil
Nil Nil Credit Sales 861,694,619 1,110,549,438 1,202,517,797 1,027,774,457
Closing Nil Nil Nil Nil Stock Total 866,583,719 1,110,549,438 1,202,517,797
1,027,774,457 Net Profit 348,214 504,330 529,643 537,977  35 ITA No.
6168/Del/2016 & CO No. 9/Del/2017 Sunil Nayyar
15\. Thus, after going through the entire gamut of the facts, the ld. CIT (A)
held that the AO was not justified to reject books of account and estimate
profit.
16\. Ground no. 4 relates to deletion of Rs. 1,39,38,110/- made by the ld. CIT
(A) on account of sundry creditors of Rs.88,38,110/- and Rs.51,00,000/- as
unexplained cash deposits.
17\. The fact of the case is that the AO found that there were cash deposits
in the bank account of the assessee on various dates totaling to
Rs.51,00,000/-. The AO held that though names/addresses were given but no PAN
was given of the sundry creditors. Total creditors of Rs.25,05,53,034/- was
shown, which includes sundry creditors in the name of Kwality Dairy India Ltd.
of Rs.24,17,14,924/-, The AO, treated the other creditors to be non-genuine
except Kwaiity Dairy India Ltd., and thereby, made an addition of
Rs.88,38,110/-. Further, cash deposits of Rs.51,00,000/- was also treated to
be unexplained, thereby, an addition of Rs.1,39,38,110/- was made u/s.68 of
the Act.
18\. Before the ld. CIT (A), it was submitted that, "The assessee is dealing
in purchase and sale of milk, and the trade is basically a related to the
farmers or illiterate dairy owners. Trading in such commodity and such section
of society invariably demands cash transactions. However, the assessee has
tried to minimize the cash transactions. Thus the entire purchase is through
banking channel and only a marginal sale has been carried out by way of cash.
The cash sale is necessitated because of the nature of goods traded which are
highly perishable. Cash sale is made rarely, on certain occasion because of
business compulsion such as lack of demand or excessive supply and the
perishable nature of the stock.
36 ITA No. 6168/Del/2016 &
CO No. 9/Del/2017 Sunil Nayyar
19\. It was also submitted that the entire sale including the sale pointed out
by AO is supported by corresponding purchase whose payment has been made
through banking channel. The AO has also not disputed the purchase because
complete ledger of purchase as well as sale account was furnished to the AO at
the time of assessment itself. To substantiate the contention, the assessee
submitted copy of purchase ledger for the relevant days which clearly shows
that the cash sale made to the retail traders is duly supported by the
corresponding purchase. The above ledger account of purchase and sale is also
summarized hereunder in the tabulated form:
    Date       Name      of   the Quantity       Purchase    Quantity   Sold Cash       Credit        Total
    of         Party              Purchased   in Value       in Kg           Sales      sales         Sale
    Purchase                      Kg                                                                  Value
    01.11.11   Kwality           79,285        24,97,479     79,285         4,59,800    20,50,443     25,10,243
               Dairy
    02.11.11   Kwality           73,610        23,18,715     73,610         8,64,100    14,66,313     23,30,413
               Dairy
    03.11.11   Kwality           80,085        25,22,678     80,085         17,72,600   7,62,938      25,35,538
               Dairy
    05.03.12   Kwality           84,445        24,91,129     84,445         8,90,200    16,13,454     25,03,654
               Dairy
    06.03.12   Kwality           43,030        12,75,837     43,030         9,02,400    3,73,549      12,75,949
               Dairy
    Total                        3,60,455      1,11,02,838   3,60,455       48,89,100   62,66,697     1,11,55,797
20\. The above tabulated analysis clearly shows that cash sale is supported by
the corresponding purchase and the facts are also collaborated with the sale
ledger attached herewith.
21\. The cash generated from the sale shown in the above table was deposited
in the bank on 03.11.11 & 06.03.12 along with the opening balance shown in the
cash book which comes to more than Rs. 51,00,000/-. Copy of cash book for the
relevant dates and the corresponding purchase and sale ledger are submitted
here with.
22\. It is the business compulsion in the trade of the assessee as well as in
many other retail trades that part of the sales has to be made in cash.
37 ITA No. 6168/Del/2016 &
CO No. 9/Del/2017 Sunil Nayyar But there in the year under reference the
statute do not in any way prohibs the cash sales and the same time there is no
provisions in the Act where the cash sale can be equated with the credit which
goes to enhance the balance in the books of the assessee. The only criteria in
this regard are that sales should be supported by the corresponding purchases.
23\. Reliance is placed on the decision of Hon'ble Rajasthan High Court in the
case of Smt. Harshiia Chordiavs ITO (2008) 298 ITR 349 in which it was held
that "Addition u/s 68 could not be made in respect of the amount which was
found to be cash receipts from the customers against which delivery of goods
was made to them". Also on the decision of Hon'ble ITAT, Nagpur Bench in the
case of M/s Heera Steel Limited vs ITO (2005) 4 ITJ 437 in which it was held
that cash sales cannot be equated with cash credit under section 68.
24\. The AO has made addition by invoking the provision of section 68. The
precondition for invoking section 68 is that there has to be credit of amount
in the books maintained by the assessee. [CIT vs P. Mohanakala (2007) 291 ITR
278 (SC)]. The section is applicable only when a sum is found credited in the
books of the assessee [Rakesh Kalia v. CIT, (2006) 286 ITR 357 (Dei.)]. In the
case of assessee neither any sum has been credited in the books of accounts or
in the bank account even for a single day throughout the year which is evident
from the peak analysis of bank account is submitted here with. As evident from
the bank account, sale proceeds realized was deposited in the bank are
utilized in the same day for making payments of purchases. The sale proceeds
realized was not lying as credit in the books of accounts of the assessee even
for a single day. Hence by any stretch of imagination, payments received from
the trade debtors cannot be covered within the meaning of credits under
section 68.
38 ITA No. 6168/Del/2016 &
CO No. 9/Del/2017 Sunil Nayyar
25\. In the case of "Dewas Soya Ltd. Vs ITO ITA NO.336/IND/2012" HAT Hon'ble
ITAT has also held just because the amounts were received from the buyers in
cash, the assessee cannot be penalized because the restriction placed for
payment u/s 40A(3) of the Act applies to buyer and not the seller. There being
no restriction under the Act to accept cash against sales, the assessee
Company cannot be penalized.
26\. Hon'ble supreme court in the case of CIT v. P. Mohan Kala 291 ITR 278
(SC) has clearly explain that the primary condition for invocation of section
68 is that there has to credit of amount in the books of the assessee and such
credit shall be sum of money emphasis is placed on the physiology used in the
section wherein the phrase any sum is found credited has been used and the
legislation has not used the word deposited. In other word the balancing
effect of the transaction has to be credit account in the books of accounts
which is not the case with the assessee.
27\. The assessee is dealing in purchase and sale of milk which is an
unorganized sector and wherein the cash purchase is commonly prevalent and
accepted business practice. Even than the assessee has tried to make maximum
purchases and sales through banking channel. Thus, the total purchases of
Rs.86,13,66,340/- out of which purchases of Rs.83,49,30,250/- have been made
through banking channel. However, because of the apparent business compulsion
the assessee has to make the purchases from villagers who evidently do not
accept the payment through banking channel.
28\. During the year the assessee has made purchases from these villagers and
has also made payment to them otherwise then banking channel and at the end of
year there are some credit balances in respect  39 ITA No. 6168/Del/2016 & CO
No. 9/Del/2017 Sunil Nayyar of these milk suppliers. The particulars in
respect of these sundry creditors and the modality of payment is tabulated
hereunder:-
    S.    Name & address of sundry Total amount of Amount        paid Outstanding      Payment made
    No.   creditor                 purchase        during the year    Balance as    on during    the
                                                                      31.03.2012       next year
    1.    Satish Bhandari            12,92,285            8,80,000   4,12,285          4,12,285
          Village Pinjokhera, Tehsil
          Tosham, Distt. BhiwanJ
    2.    Chander Singh            13,38,947              8,80,000   4,58,947          4,58,947
          Village Thothwal, Tehsil
          Rewari, Distt. Rewari
    3.    Dev Kumar Morya                   13,33,808     9,00,000   4,33,808          4,33,808
          Village SirsaKher,       Tehsil
          3ulana, Distt, Jind
    4.    Dharam Singh Dagar          13,07,570           8,71,000   4,36,570          4,36,570
          Village  Chilewal,   Tehsil
          Tohanay, Distt. Fatehabad
    5.    Gopal Rai                   13,56,049           8,95,000   4,61,049          4,61,049
          Village   Nidana,    Tehsil
          Maham, Distt. Rohtak
    6.    Jagat Ram                         13,16,844     8,70,000   4,46,844          4,46,844
          Village Ranika, Tehsil
          Nagina, Distt. Mewat
    7.    Jagdish Changal           12,65,433             8,75,000   3,90,433          3,90,433
          Village Nilanwali, Tehsil
          Dabwali, Distt. Sirsa
    8.    Jaggu Mourwal                      13,13,001    9,00,000   4,13,001          4,13,001
          Village   Badeo,      Tehsil
          Ferozepur Jhirka, Distt.
          Mewat
    9.    Kallu Rana                         12,93,124    8,78,000   4,15,124          4,15,124
          Vlllage Bainsi, Tehsil
          Lakhan      Majra,     Distt.
          Rohtak
    10.   Kamal Thakur                       13,42,399    8,94,700   4,47,699          4,47,699
          Village Marora, Tehsil Nuh,
          Distt. Mewat
    11.   Mahadev Prasad                     13,17,970    8,70,000   4,47,970          4,47,970
          Village Supura, Khuro
          Tehsil,    Benal,     Distt.
    12.   Bhiwani
          Nirmal Singh                       13,41,110    9,00,000   4,41,110          4,41,110
          Village Damkora, Tehsil
          Tohana, Distt. Fatehabad
    13.   Raghu Sheoran                      13,81,945    8,80,000   5,01,945          5,01,945
          Village ugaheri,         Tehsii
          Lakhan    Majra,         Distt.
    14.   Rohtak
          Ramdass Singh                      13,29,253    8,70,000   4,59,253          4,59,253
          Viiiage Thedi, Baba Sawan
          Singh, Tehsil Sirsa, Distt.
          Sirsa
                                                      40                         ITA No. 6168/Del/2016 &
                                                                                     CO No. 9/Del/2017
                                                                                           Sunil Nayyar
    15.   Ramesh Sharma Viliage 12,82,811             8,70,780      4,12,031           4,12,031
          Jhimaravat, Tehsii Nagina,
          Distt. Mewat Tehsii
    16.   Sham Lal Rajaura             13,42,090      8,90,000      4,52,090           4,52,090
          Viilage Tilpat, Tehsil
          Faridabad, Distt. Faridabd
    17.   Jai Shankar                13,34,562        8,80,000      4,54,562           4,54,562
          Village Roshakhera, Tehsil
          Hisar-II, Distt. Hisar
    18.   Sumesh Tholiya           13,71,396          8,80,000      4,91,396           4,91,396
          Village Husanpur, Tehsii
          Rewari, Distt, Rewari
    19.   Suresh Raparia             12,86,166        8,58,500      4,27,666           4,27,666
          Village  Khera   Alampur,
          Tehsil  Jatusana,   Distt.
          Rewari
    20.   Ajay Yadav                   12,89,327      8,80,000      4,09,327           4,09,327
          Village    Assan,     Tehsil
          Rohtak, Distt. Rohtak
          Total                        2,64,36,090    1,76,22,980   88,13,110          88,13,110
29\. The above tabulated analysis clearly shows that the purchases have been
made in the regular course of business. It was also submitted that the amount
of credit represents the purchases made by the assessee which form part of the
total purchases shown in the return and the total quantity shown in the
return. Still more the milk purchase on credit basis from these persons have
been sold on the same date and the sale amount also form part of the total
sales. Copy of accounts of these creditors submitted here with. It is also
evident that the entire purchases have been made by way of credit and the
repayment has been made. Thus the tabulated analysis shows that against the
credit receipt from these persons by way of supply of milk part payment have
been made during the year itself and the balance have been paid in the
immediate subsequent year. But in any case the credit amount introduced in the
books of accounts by way of purchase of milk was for the total purchases of
milk from these small villagers. The assessee has produced ail the documents
to prove the identity, creditworthiness and genuineness of transaction with
respect to all these creditors.
41 ITA No. 6168/Del/2016 &
CO No. 9/Del/2017 Sunil Nayyar
30\. After going through the detail of these creditors, pattern of payment and
the document furnished by the assessee, the AO has concluded that the
creditors are not genuine to the extent for which the payment have been made
in the subsequent year. However, the AO has not disputed the creditors to the
extent for which the payment have been made during the year itself. Thus what
the AO is holding that the creditors are partly genuine and partly in genuine.
The conclusions drawn by the AO are thus self-conflicting, inconsistence and
apparently variable which is not tenable under the explicit provision of the
Act. These creditors have also been held genuine by the AO himself while
deciding the case for the AY 2013- 14 under section 143(3) wherein no separate
addition on account of these creditors have been made.
31\. During Assessment proceedings the assessee has furnished complete postal
addresses of all these persons wherein the communication can be made either
through the postal authorities or directly by the AO, which establishes the
identity of these creditors. Similarly ail the purchase bill were also
supplied to the AO fully establishing the capacity of these creditors. The
assessee also supply the subsequent copies of account of these creditors which
establishes that the payment have been made to these creditors in the
subsequent year, thereby establishing the genuineness of these transactions.
The assessee also furnishes copies of accounts of ail these persons which are
submitted here with. The assesse has thus discharge his complete onus, so far
as section 68 is concerned.
32\. However, the AO without verifying the correctness of the identity of
these sundry creditors or without bringing on record any material or evident
on record held that these sundry creditors are not genuine and made addition
of Rs.88,38,110/-. The AO has thus erred in not  42 ITA No. 6168/Del/2016 & CO
No. 9/Del/2017 Sunil Nayyar appreciating the facts that when the assessee has
supplied names and addresses of sundry creditors and the nature of transaction
and also the capacity of the creditors his onus stands discharged.
33\. It is a settled legal preposition that addition under section 68 can be
made only if "assessee offers no explanation about the nature about the nature
and source of such credits". The assessee has clearly explain the nature of
the credit which Is undoubtedly milk purchase from the villagers and also the
corresponding source which are the regular milk suppliers to whom payments
have also made, which also stand accepted by the AO in the next year. When the
assessee discharged his onus, such burden, which is placed on the assessee,
shifts on the AO. The AO has not verified these evidences and even the major
fact that the payment stand made to these creditor in the subsequent year.
Thus without putting any material or evidence on record the AO has proceeded
in invoking the provision of section 68 which is against the intent and
purpose of the section.
34\. It is a settled legal preposition that when the primary onus is
discharged by the assessee, the burden shifts on the AO to examine the
material and in case he want to rebut the evidence supplied by the assessee,
he has to collect the material or evidence and confront to the assessee before
arriving at any adverse conclusion. Orient Trading Co. Ltd v. CIT (1963) 49
ITR 723 (Bom.) In holding a particular receipt as income from undisclosed
source, the fate of the assessee cannot be decided by the revenue on the basis
of surmises, suspicions or probabilities [Northern Bengal Jute Trading Co.
Ltd. V. CIT, (1968) 70 ITR 407, 415 (Cal)].
35\. The Hon'ble Supreme Court has also explained a number of cases that once
the assessee furnishes explanation regarding the nature and source of the
credit money the AO is not entitled to reject unreasonably  43 ITA No.
6168/Del/2016 & CO No. 9/Del/2017 Sunil Nayyar and simply on the ground that
the particular provided are "unconvincing and deserve to be rejected". The AO
can reject the particular provided by the assessee only after proper enquiry
or bringing on record relevant material or evidences and after satisfaction on
the basis of such material or evidences but the AO is not entitled to draw
conclusion or inferences without examination and without putting any material
on record and simply on the basis of conjecture or surmises. [Sreeiekha
Banerjee v. CIT, (1963) 49 ITR (SC) 112].
36\. The satisfaction of the AO is the basis of invocation of the powers under
section 68, but the satisfaction must be derived from relevant factor and on
the basis of proper enquiry. [Rajshree Synthetics v. CIT (2002) 256 ITR
331(Raj.)] Further the enquiry envisaged under section 68 is an enquiry which
is reasonable and just. [Khandelwal Construction v. CIT (1997) 227 ITR 900
(Gau.)].
37\. The opinion found by the AO must be based on material and it should be
perverse. As a matter of fact the word satisfaction has been used in section
68 to protect the interest of the assessee. The Legislature by using this word
make it incumbent on the AO to consider the material put before him and incase
he choose to draw adverse conclusion he should collect the basis for his
satisfaction and confront the same to the assessee. AO has not discharged his
onus to this extent so the addition made needs to be deleted.
38\. Thus, it has been held that if the AO rejects an explanation given by the
assessee without considering its acceptability in the light of the fact and
circumstances of the case, or rejects the explanation without verifying it,
the addition cannot be sustained. Mehta Parikh & Co. v. CIT [(1956) 30 ITR 181
(SC)]; [K.S. KannanKunhi v. CIT, (1969) 72 ITR. 757, 765  44 ITA No.
6168/Del/2016 & CO No. 9/Del/2017 Sunil Nayyar (Ker)(SC)]. The assessee has
given all probable and possible explanation about the Identity, capacity and
the nature of transactions. AO has not put on any, material or evidence on
record to contravene his explanation and b. record a satisfaction that the
evidences are not reliable.
39\. The objection of AO is that name of Tehsil, District and city is given
but House No. and Street No., is not given. It is a common knowledge that in
small village house numbers and street numbers are not given and name of the
village and tehsil in itself is a complete postal address to verify the
identity and genuineness of the creditor. The AO cannot ask the assessee to do
the improbable or the impossible. The assessee has also explained that his
nature of business is such that on certain occasions he has to purchase milk
from small villagers, who eventually- become his sundry creditor because the
purchases are made on credit. Secondly it was also explained that since these
milk suppliers belongs to small villages, so the minute detail regarding house
number and street number is neither relevant or required, nor it can be
supplied.
40\. In this regard, it is pertinent to mention the legal maxim-lex non
cojitadimpossibilia- which means 'the law does not compel a man to do that
which he cannot possibly perform'. In this regard, reference may be made to
Cochin State Power & Light Corporation Ltd. V. State of Kerala [AIR 1965 SC
1688, 1691]; Vinod Krishna Kaul v. Union of India [JT 1995 (9) SC 205, 208];
Attiq-Ur-Rehman vs. Municipal Corporation of Delhi [JT 1996 (2) SC 670, 678];
Manohar Joshi v. Nitin Bhaurao Patil [(1996)1 SCC 169, 179]; Life Insurance
Corporation of India v, CIT [(1996) 219 ITR 410,418 (SC)].
41\. It was submitted that the issue involved is holding the creditor as
partly genuine and partly in genuine. The assessee had made purchases of  45
ITA No. 6168/Del/2016 & CO No. 9/Del/2017 Sunil Nayyar Rs.2,64,36,090/- by way
of credit from small milk supplier of different villages. Out of this credit
purchase the assessee had made payment to the extent of Rs.1,76,22,980/-
during the year. The balance payment of Rs.88,13,110/- to these creditors was
made in the immediate succeeding year. The AO has held that the creditors are
not genuine to the extent of the amount which was outstanding at the end of
the year but he has not objected to the identity, capacity and genuineness of
the transactions to the extent of Rs.1,76,22,980/- which was paid during the
year, thus is an apparently paradoxical conclusion which is obviously self-
contradictory and does not stand under the explicit provisions of section 67.
It is a settled legal preposition that the identity of the creditor can either
be genuine or in genuine. It cannot be in parts to the convenience of the AO.
The conclusion being self-contradictory so addition made needs to be deleted.
42\. After going through the facts and circumstances of the case, submission
of the assessee and perusal of the assessment order, the ld. CIT (A) held that
the dealing in sale/purchases of milk was also related to the
farmers/illiterate dairy owners. Therefore, there were instances of cash sale
but there was no purchase in cash. Sale in cash was made of a nominal amount.
All the creditors have been paid the outstanding amount in the immediate
succeeding year. Complete account of sale/purchase was furnished before the AO
for verification. Quantitative details of the sale/purchases were given as
under: (Repetitive from page no. 36) Date Name of the Quantity Purchase
Quantity Sold Cash Credit Total of Party Purchased in Value in Kg Sales sales
Sale Purchase Kg Value 01.11.11 Kwality 79,285 24,97,479 79,285 4,59,800
20,50,443 25,10,243 Dairy 02.11.11 Kwality 73,610 23,18,715 73,610 8,64,100
14,66,313 23,30,413 Dairy 03.11.11 Kwality 80,085 25,22,678 80,085 17,72,600
7,62,938 25,35,538 Dairy 05.03.12 Kwality 84,445 24,91,129 84,445 8,90,200
16,13,454 25,03,654 Dairy 06.03.12 Kwality 43,030 12,75,837 43,030 9,02,400
3,73,549 12,75,949 Dairy  46 ITA No. 6168/Del/2016 & CO No. 9/Del/2017 Sunil
Nayyar Total 3,60,455 1,11,02,838 3,60,455 48,89,100 62,66,697 1,11,55,797
43\. The ld. CIT (A) held that the above tabulated analysis clearly show that
the cash sale was supported by corresponding purchases and this fact was also
corroborated with the sale ledger. The cash sale and opening balance of cash
comes to more than to Rs.51,00,000/- which is verifiable from the cash book as
well as ledger of sale. All the relevant details of the sundry creditors to
whom payment was made in the next year was filed, which is has been mentioned
at page nos. 39 & 40 of this order.
44\. The ld. CIT (A) held that the amount of credit balances represent the
purchases made by the assessee, which form part of the total purchases shown
during the year and the said purchases are verifiable from the total quantity
of the milk shown to have been purchased. Names and addresses of the persons
concerned were filed. Payments to those persons were made during the year also
and the balance payment was made in the subsequent year. So there was no
dispute about the genuineness of the suppliers vis-à-vis sundry creditors.
There was total purchases of Rs.2,64,36,090/- made by way of credit from small
milk suppliers of different villages out of which Rs.1,76,22,980/- was paid
during the year itself and the balance amount of Rs.88,13,110/- was paid in
the immediate succeeding year. Further, the source of cash deposit of
Rs.51,00,000/- was explained that includes sale in cash of Rs.48,89,110/-.
45\. During the hearing before us, the ld. DR relied on the order of the
Assessing Officer whereas the ld. AR supported the order of the ld. CIT (A)
and reiterated the arguments taken up before the ld. CIT (A).
46\. Heard the arguments of both the parties and perused the material
available on record.
47 ITA No. 6168/Del/2016 &
CO No. 9/Del/2017 Sunil Nayyar
47\. Having gone through the record, we find that the ld. CIT (A) has passed a
well reasoned order taking into consideration the point wise rebuttal given by
the ld. AR with regard to the rejection of the books of account and estimation
of profit. We find no reason to interfere with the order of the ld. CIT (A)
which has been quoted above. Hence, the ground no. 1 taken up by the revenue
is liable to be dismissed. Regarding the addition made on account of sundry
creditors, it has been undisputedly proved by the assessee that the sundry
creditors have been paid off immediately in the subsequent years and all the
details have been submitted which consists of amount of purchase of milk in
the year, amount paid during the year, outstanding balance as on 31.03.2012
and the payment made during the next year from 01.04.2012. There was no
dispute that the assessee has purchased milk from the 20 suppliers and squared
off the amounts subsequently in the next financial year. Hence, the addition
made on account of sundry creditors is hereby by deleted. Regarding the cash
deposit in the same bank account through which the entire sale and purchase of
milk has taken place. The ld. CIT (A) has given a categorical finding that an
amount of Rs.48,89,110/- represents the sale of milk in cash. The ld. CIT (A)
held that the amount of Rs.2,10,890/- is the opening balance. The assessee
started his business in the current assessment year only. It is not clear from
the records whether this amount of Rs.2,10,890/- represents the deposit of
cash utilized for opening the bank account or otherwise. Hence, the AO is
hereby directed to examine the account and give effect to this amount if it
represents the cash utilized for opening of the bank account.
In conclusion,  48 ITA No. 6168/Del/2016 & CO No. 9/Del/2017 Sunil Nayyar
48\. Ground no. 1 - Dealing with estimation of profit is dismissed owing to
wrong invocation of provisions u/s 145(3) of the Income Tax Act, 1961.
49\. Ground no. 2 - It is hereby held that assessee is in the business of milk
supply.
50\. Ground no. 3 - Related to ground no. 1, no defects in the books of
account have been established by the revenue.
51\. Ground no. 4 - (a) Addition made on account of sundry creditors, having
established the fact of payment, is deleted. (b) The cash deposits have been
proved to be the cash sales duly accounted for, hence deleted.
52\. In the result, the appeal of the revenue is dismissed and Cross Objection
of the assessee is treated as infructuous owing to the adjudication on merits
of the case.
Order Pronounced in the Open Court on 24/02/2020.
                Sd/-                                       Sd/-
      (Kuldip Singh)                               (Dr. B. R. R. Kumar)
     Judicial Member                               Accountant Member
    Dated: 24/02/2020
    *Subodh*
    Copy forwarded to:
    1. Appellant
    2. Respondent
    3. CIT
    4. CIT(Appeals)
    5. DR: ITAT
                                                          ASSISTANT REGISTRAR
account have been established by the revenue.
51\. Ground no. 4 - (a) Addition made on account of sundry creditors, having
established the fact of payment, is deleted. (b) The cash deposits have been
proved to be the cash sales duly accounted for, hence deleted.
52\. In the result, the appeal of the revenue is dismissed and Cross Objection
of the assessee is treated as infructuous owing to the adjudication on merits
of the case.
Order Pronounced in the Open Court on 24/02/2020.
                Sd/-                                       Sd/-
      (Kuldip Singh)                               (Dr. B. R. R. Kumar)
     Judicial Member                               Accountant Member
    Dated: 24/02/2020
    *Subodh*
    Copy forwarded to:
    1. Appellant
    2. Respondent
                     Revenue by : Sh. Saras Kumar, Sr. DR
    Date of Hearing: 20.01.2020      Date of Pronouncement: 24.02.2020
                                     ORDER
Per Dr. B. R. R. Kumar, Accountant Member:
The present appeal filed by the revenue and Cross Objection by the assessee
are directed against the order of ld. CIT (A)-17, New Delhi dated 05.09.2016.
2\. Following the grounds have been raised by the revenue:
> "1. The Ld. CIT (A) has erred in law and on facts of the case in deleting
> the addition of Rs. 2,79,61,917/- made by the assessing officer on account
> of profit on unexplained deposits in bank, by applying profit of 5% to total
> turnover, on the plea that no defect in books of accounts was pointed out by
> the assessing officer and whereas the assessing officer had  2 ITA No.
> 6168/Del/2016 & CO No. 9/Del/2017 Sunil Nayyar pointed out various defects
> in books of accounts as mentioned in the impugned assessment order dated
> 30/03/2015.
> 2\. The Ld. CIT (A) has erred in upholding genuineness of alleged business
> done by the assessee in the light of enquiries and findings done by the AO.
> 3\. The Ld. CIT (A) has erred in upholding the genuineness of the business
> of the assessee by holding that no specific defects were pointed out by the
> AO when AO mentioned various defects in his books. The Ld. CIT (A) has erred
account have been established by the revenue.
51\. Ground no. 4 - (a) Addition made on account of sundry creditors, having
established the fact of payment, is deleted. (b) The cash deposits have been
proved to be the cash sales duly accounted for, hence deleted.
52\. In the result, the appeal of the revenue is dismissed and Cross Objection
of the assessee is treated as infructuous owing to the adjudication on merits
of the case.
Order Pronounced in the Open Court on 24/02/2020.
                Sd/-                                       Sd/-
      (Kuldip Singh)                               (Dr. B. R. R. Kumar)
     Judicial Member                               Accountant Member
    Dated: 24/02/2020
    *Subodh*
    Copy forwarded to:
    1. Appellant
    2. Respondent
                     Revenue by : Sh. Saras Kumar, Sr. DR
    Date of Hearing: 20.01.2020      Date of Pronouncement: 24.02.2020
                                     ORDER
Per Dr. B. R. R. Kumar, Accountant Member:
The present appeal filed by the revenue and Cross Objection by the assessee
are directed against the order of ld. CIT (A)-17, New Delhi dated 05.09.2016.
2\. Following the grounds have been raised by the revenue:
> "1. The Ld. CIT (A) has erred in law and on facts of the case in deleting
> the addition of Rs. 2,79,61,917/- made by the assessing officer on account
> of profit on unexplained deposits in bank, by applying profit of 5% to total
> turnover, on the plea that no defect in books of accounts was pointed out by
> the assessing officer and whereas the assessing officer had  2 ITA No.
> 6168/Del/2016 & CO No. 9/Del/2017 Sunil Nayyar pointed out various defects
> in books of accounts as mentioned in the impugned assessment order dated
> 30/03/2015.
> 2\. The Ld. CIT (A) has erred in upholding genuineness of alleged business
> done by the assessee in the light of enquiries and findings done by the AO.
> 3\. The Ld. CIT (A) has erred in upholding the genuineness of the business
> of the assessee by holding that no specific defects were pointed out by the
> AO when AO mentioned various defects in his books. The Ld. CIT (A) has erred
account have been established by the revenue.
51\. Ground no. 4 - (a) Addition made on account of sundry creditors, having
established the fact of payment, is deleted. (b) The cash deposits have been
proved to be the cash sales duly accounted for, hence deleted.
52\. In the result, the appeal of the revenue is dismissed and Cross Objection
of the assessee is treated as infructuous owing to the adjudication on merits
of the case.
Order Pronounced in the Open Court on 24/02/2020.
                Sd/-                                       Sd/-
      (Kuldip Singh)                               (Dr. B. R. R. Kumar)
     Judicial Member                               Accountant Member
    Dated: 24/02/2020
    *Subodh*
    Copy forwarded to:
    1. Appellant
    2. Respondent
                     Revenue by : Sh. Saras Kumar, Sr. DR
    Date of Hearing: 20.01.2020      Date of Pronouncement: 24.02.2020
                                     ORDER
Per Dr. B. R. R. Kumar, Accountant Member:
The present appeal filed by the revenue and Cross Objection by the assessee
are directed against the order of ld. CIT (A)-17, New Delhi dated 05.09.2016.
2\. Following the grounds have been raised by the revenue:
> "1. The Ld. CIT (A) has erred in law and on facts of the case in deleting
> the addition of Rs. 2,79,61,917/- made by the assessing officer on account
> of profit on unexplained deposits in bank, by applying profit of 5% to total
> turnover, on the plea that no defect in books of accounts was pointed out by
> the assessing officer and whereas the assessing officer had  2 ITA No.
> 6168/Del/2016 & CO No. 9/Del/2017 Sunil Nayyar pointed out various defects
> in books of accounts as mentioned in the impugned assessment order dated
> 30/03/2015.
> 2\. The Ld. CIT (A) has erred in upholding genuineness of alleged business
> done by the assessee in the light of enquiries and findings done by the AO.
> 3\. The Ld. CIT (A) has erred in upholding the genuineness of the business
> of the assessee by holding that no specific defects were pointed out by the
> AO when AO mentioned various defects in his books. The Ld. CIT (A) has erred
account have been established by the revenue.
51\. Ground no. 4 - (a) Addition made on account of sundry creditors, having
established the fact of payment, is deleted. (b) The cash deposits have been
proved to be the cash sales duly accounted for, hence deleted.
52\. In the result, the appeal of the revenue is dismissed and Cross Objection
of the assessee is treated as infructuous owing to the adjudication on merits
of the case.
Order Pronounced in the Open Court on 24/02/2020.
                Sd/-                                       Sd/-
      (Kuldip Singh)                               (Dr. B. R. R. Kumar)
     Judicial Member                               Accountant Member
    Dated: 24/02/2020
    *Subodh*
    Copy forwarded to:
    1. Appellant
    2. Respondent
                     Revenue by : Sh. Saras Kumar, Sr. DR
    Date of Hearing: 20.01.2020      Date of Pronouncement: 24.02.2020
                                     ORDER
Per Dr. B. R. R. Kumar, Accountant Member:
The present appeal filed by the revenue and Cross Objection by the assessee
are directed against the order of ld. CIT (A)-17, New Delhi dated 05.09.2016.
2\. Following the grounds have been raised by the revenue:
> "1. The Ld. CIT (A) has erred in law and on facts of the case in deleting
> the addition of Rs. 2,79,61,917/- made by the assessing officer on account
> of profit on unexplained deposits in bank, by applying profit of 5% to total
> turnover, on the plea that no defect in books of accounts was pointed out by
> the assessing officer and whereas the assessing officer had  2 ITA No.
> 6168/Del/2016 & CO No. 9/Del/2017 Sunil Nayyar pointed out various defects
> in books of accounts as mentioned in the impugned assessment order dated
> 30/03/2015.
> 2\. The Ld. CIT (A) has erred in upholding genuineness of alleged business
> done by the assessee in the light of enquiries and findings done by the AO.
> 3\. The Ld. CIT (A) has erred in upholding the genuineness of the business
> of the assessee by holding that no specific defects were pointed out by the
> AO when AO mentioned various defects in his books. The Ld. CIT (A) has erred
> in upholding the genuineness of books of assessee when AO has specially
> mentioned that no stock register was maintained and neither any cash book
> nor other details was maintained and produced.
> 4\. The CIT (A) has erred in law and on facts of the case in deleting the
> addition of Rs. 1,39,38,110/- (that is Rs. 51,00,000/- made by the assessing
> officer on account of unexplained cash deposit and Rs. 88,38,110/- made by
> the assessing officer on account of unsecured loans u/s 68 of the IT Act
> 1961). As the assessee failed to prove the identity, genuineness &
> creditworthiness of the parties, who gave the unsecured loan and paid cash
> to the assessee and the assessee has failed to discharge primary onus as
> incomplete address was provided without other details. In view of this, Ld.
account have been established by the revenue.
51\. Ground no. 4 - (a) Addition made on account of sundry creditors, having
established the fact of payment, is deleted. (b) The cash deposits have been
proved to be the cash sales duly accounted for, hence deleted.
52\. In the result, the appeal of the revenue is dismissed and Cross Objection
of the assessee is treated as infructuous owing to the adjudication on merits
of the case.
Order Pronounced in the Open Court on 24/02/2020.
                Sd/-                                       Sd/-
      (Kuldip Singh)                               (Dr. B. R. R. Kumar)
     Judicial Member                               Accountant Member
    Dated: 24/02/2020
    *Subodh*
    Copy forwarded to:
    1. Appellant
    2. Respondent
                     Revenue by : Sh. Saras Kumar, Sr. DR
    Date of Hearing: 20.01.2020      Date of Pronouncement: 24.02.2020
                                     ORDER
Per Dr. B. R. R. Kumar, Accountant Member:
The present appeal filed by the revenue and Cross Objection by the assessee
are directed against the order of ld. CIT (A)-17, New Delhi dated 05.09.2016.
2\. Following the grounds have been raised by the revenue:
> "1. The Ld. CIT (A) has erred in law and on facts of the case in deleting
> the addition of Rs. 2,79,61,917/- made by the assessing officer on account
> of profit on unexplained deposits in bank, by applying profit of 5% to total
> turnover, on the plea that no defect in books of accounts was pointed out by
> the assessing officer and whereas the assessing officer had  2 ITA No.
> 6168/Del/2016 & CO No. 9/Del/2017 Sunil Nayyar pointed out various defects
> in books of accounts as mentioned in the impugned assessment order dated
> 30/03/2015.
> 2\. The Ld. CIT (A) has erred in upholding genuineness of alleged business
> done by the assessee in the light of enquiries and findings done by the AO.
> 3\. The Ld. CIT (A) has erred in upholding the genuineness of the business
> of the assessee by holding that no specific defects were pointed out by the
> AO when AO mentioned various defects in his books. The Ld. CIT (A) has erred
> in upholding the genuineness of books of assessee when AO has specially
> mentioned that no stock register was maintained and neither any cash book
> nor other details was maintained and produced.
> 4\. The CIT (A) has erred in law and on facts of the case in deleting the
> addition of Rs. 1,39,38,110/- (that is Rs. 51,00,000/- made by the assessing
> officer on account of unexplained cash deposit and Rs. 88,38,110/- made by
> the assessing officer on account of unsecured loans u/s 68 of the IT Act
> 1961). As the assessee failed to prove the identity, genuineness &
> creditworthiness of the parties, who gave the unsecured loan and paid cash
> to the assessee and the assessee has failed to discharge primary onus as
> incomplete address was provided without other details. In view of this, Ld.
account have been established by the revenue.
51\. Ground no. 4 - (a) Addition made on account of sundry creditors, having
established the fact of payment, is deleted. (b) The cash deposits have been
proved to be the cash sales duly accounted for, hence deleted.
52\. In the result, the appeal of the revenue is dismissed and Cross Objection
of the assessee is treated as infructuous owing to the adjudication on merits
of the case.
Order Pronounced in the Open Court on 24/02/2020.
                Sd/-                                       Sd/-
      (Kuldip Singh)                               (Dr. B. R. R. Kumar)
     Judicial Member                               Accountant Member
    Dated: 24/02/2020
    *Subodh*
    Copy forwarded to:
    1. Appellant
    2. Respondent
