Delhi High Court
Registrar Of Companies & Ors vs Dharmendra Kumar Garg & Anr on 1 June, 2012
Author: Vipin Sanghi
    *      IN THE HIGH COURT OF DELHI AT NEW DELHI
                      Judgment reserved on: 22.05.2012
    %                 Judgment delivered on: 01.06.2012
    +                          W.P.(C) 11271/2009
           REGISTRAR OF COMPANIES & ORS                    ..... Petitioners
                               Through:   Mr. Pankaj Batra, Advocate.
                          versus
           DHARMENDRA KUMAR GARG & ANR                     ..... Respondents
                               Through:   Mr. Rajeshwar Kumar Gupta and
                                          Ms. Shikha Soni, Advocates.
           CORAM:
           HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE VIPIN SANGHI
                                   JUDGMENT
VIPIN SANGHI, J.
1\. The present writ petition has been preferred by the Registrar of
Companies, NCT of Delhi & Haryana (ROC) and its CPIOs Sh. Raj Kumar Shah and
Sh. Atma Shah to assail two similar orders dated 14.07.2009 passed by the
legislature has cautiously provided that only in cases of malafides or
unreasonable conduct, i.e., where the PIO, without reasonable cause refuses to
receive the application, or provide the information, or knowingly gives
incorrect, incomplete or misleading information or destroys the information,
that the personal penalty on the PIO can be imposed. This was certainly not
one such case. If the CIC starts imposing penalty on the PIOs in every other
case, without any justification, it would instill a sense of constant
apprehension in those functioning as PIOs in the public authorities, and would
put undue pressure on them. They would not be able to fulfill their statutory
duties under the RTI Act with an independent mind and with W.P.(C.) No.
11271/2009 Page 37 of 38 objectivity. Such consequences would not auger well
for the future development and growth of the regime that the RTI Act seeks to
bring in, and may lead to skewed and imbalanced decisions by the PIOs
Appellate Authorities and the CIC. It may even lead to unreasonable and absurd
orders and bring the institutions created by the RTI Act in disrepute.
62\. For all the aforesaid reasons, I allow the present petition and quash the
Sh. Atma Shah to assail two similar orders dated 14.07.2009 passed by the
Central Information Commission (CIC) in complaint case Nos.
CIC/SG/C/2009/000702 and CIC/SG/C/2009/000753. By these similar orders, the
appeals preferred by the same respondent- querist were allowed, rejecting the
defence of the petitioners founded upon W.P.(C.) No. 11271/2009 Page 1 of 38
Section 610 of the Companies Act, 1956, and it was directed that the complete
information sought by the respondent-querist in his two applications under the
Right to Information Act (RTI Act) be provided to him before 25.07.2009. The
CIC has also directed issuance of show- cause notice to the petitioner-PIOs
under Section 20(1) of the RTI Act asking them to show-cause as to why penalty
should not be imposed upon them for not furnishing information as sought by
the querist within thirty days.
2\. The querist-Shri Dharmendra Kumar Garg filed an application under the RTI
Act on 28.05.2009 requiring the PIO of the ROC to provide the following
information in relation to company No. 056045 M/s Bloom Financial Services
Limited:
> "1. Who are the directors of this company? Please provide their name,
> address, date of appointment and copies of consent filed at ROC alongwith
> F-32 filed.
> 2\. After incorporation of above company, how many times directors were
> changed? Please provide the details of documents files and copies of Form 32
> filed at ROC.
> 3\. Please provide the copies of Annual Returns filed at ROC since
> incorporation to 1998
> 4\. On what ground prosecution has been filed. Please provide the details of
> prosecution and persons included for prosecution. Please provide the copies
> of Order Sheets and related documents.
> 5\. On what ground the name of Dharmender Kumar Garg has been included for
> prosecution?
> 6\. Please provide the copies of Form No 5 and other documents filed for
> increase of capital?
W.P.(C.) No. 11271/2009 Page 2 of 38
> 7\. How much fee was paid for increase of Capital of above company? Please
> provide the details of payment of fee at ROC.
> 8\. Please provide the copies of Statutory Report and Special Leave Petition
> (Statement in lieu of prospectus) filed at ROC."
3\. The PIO-Sh. Atma Shah responded to the said queries on 29.05.2009. In
respect of queries No. 1, 2, 3, 6, 7 & 8, the stand taken by the PIO was as
follows:
> "that in view of the provisions of Section 610 of the Companies Act, 1956
> read with Companies (Central Government‟s) General Rules and Forms, 1956
> framed in exercise of powers conferred by clauses (a) & (b) of sub- section
> (1) of Section 642 of the Companies Act, 1956, the documents filed by
> companies pursuant to various provisions of the Companies Act, 1956 with the
> ROCs are to be treated as „information in public domain‟ and such
> information is accessible by public pursuant to the provisions of Section
> 610 of the Companies Act, 1956. There is an in built mechanism under the
> provisions of the Companies Act, 1956 for accessing information relating to
> documents filed which are in the public domain on payment of fees prescribed
> under the provisions of the Companies Act, 1956 and the Rules made there
> under. Hence you can obtain the desired information by inspecting the
> documents filed by the company in this office before filing of documents
> online i.e. prior to 8/03/2006 at O/o Registrar of Companies, NCT of Delhi &
> Haryana, 131, Sector-5, IMT Manesar, Haryana and after 18/3/06 on the
> Ministry‟s website www.mca.gov.in. Further certified copies of the desired
> documents can also be obtained on payment of fees prescribed thereof. In
> view of this, the information already available in the public domain would
> not be treated as „information held by or under the control of public
> authority‟ pursuant to Section 2(j) of the Right to Information Act, 2005.
> Therefore, the provisions of RTI Act, 2005 would not be applicable for
> providing inspection/copies of such documents/information to the W.P.(C.)
> No. 11271/2009 Page 3 of 38 public."
4\. The queries at serial Nos. 4 & 5, as aforesaid, were also responded to by
the PIO. However, I am not concerned with the answers given in response to the
said queries, as the legal issue raised in the present petition by the
petitioners relates to the interplay between Section 610 of the Companies Act
on the one hand, and the provisions of the RTI Act on the other hand. Not
satisfied with the response given by the PIO Sh. Atma Shah, as aforesaid, the
respondent-querist, without preferring a first appeal, straightway preferred
an appeal before the CIC, which has been disposed of vide impugned order dated
14.07.2009 in complaint case No. CIC/SG/C/2009/000702.
5\. The respondent-querist raised further queries in respect of the same
company vide an RTI application dated 06.06.2009. This application was also
responded to by the PIO Sh. Atma Shah on 23.06.2009. In this reply as well, in
respect of certain queries, the PIO responded by placing reliance on Section
610 of the Companies Act and gave more or less the same reply, as extracted
above. Since the respondent-querist was not satisfied with the said response,
he preferred a petition before the CIC, once again by-passing the statutory
first appeal provided under the RTI Act. This appeal was registered as
complaint case No. CIC/SG/C/2009/000753. W.P.(C.) No. 11271/2009 Page 4 of 38
6\. Before the CIC, the petitioners contended that the information which could
be accessed by any person by resort to Section 610 of the Companies Act is
information which is already placed in the public domain, and it cannot be
said that the said information is ―held by‖ or is ―under the control‖ of the
public authority. It was contended that such information, as has already been
placed in the public domain, does not fall within the scope of the RTI Act and
a citizen cannot by- pass the procedure, and avoid paying the charges
prescribed for accessing the information placed in the public domain, by
resort to provisions of the RTI Act.
7\. In support of their submissions, before the CIC the petitioners placed
reliance on a departmental circular No. 1/2006 issued by the Ministry of
Company Affairs, wherein the view taken by the Director, Inspection &
Investigation was that in the light of the provisions of Section 610 of the
Companies Act read with Companies (Central Government's) General Rules &
Forms, 1956 (Rules), framed in exercise of powers conferred under clauses (a)
& (b) of sub-Section 1 of Section 642 of the Companies Act, the documents
filed by the Companies pursuant to various provisions of the Companies Act
with the ROC are to be treated as information in the public domain. It was
also his view that there being a complete mechanism provided under the
provisions of the Companies Act for accessing information relating to
documents filed, which are in public domain, on payment of fees W.P.(C.) No.
11271/2009 Page 5 of 38 prescribed under the Companies Act and the Rules made
thereunder, such information could not be treated as information held by, or
under the control of, the public authority. His view was that the provisions
of RTI Act could not be invoked for seeking copies of such information by the
public.
8\. The petitioners also placed reliance on various earlier orders passed by
the different CICs, upholding the aforesaid stand of the ROC and, in
particular, reliance was placed on the decision of Sh. A.N. Tiwari, Central
Information Commissioner in F.No. CIC/80/A/2007/000112 decided on 12.04.2007.
Reference was also made to various orders of Prof. M.M. Ansari, Central
Information Commissioner taking the same view. The petitioner has placed all
these orders before this Court as well, as Annexure A-7(Colly.)
9\. The first submission of learned counsel for the petitioners is that, while
passing the impugned orders, the Central Information Commissioner Sh. Shailesh
Gandhi has acted with impropriety. Despite the earlier orders of two Central
Information Commissioners - taking the view that the information placed by the
petitioner-ROC in the public domain and accessible under Section 610 of the
Companies Act are out of the purview of the RTI Act, being specifically
brought to his notice, he has simply brushed them aside after noticing them by
observing that he differs with these decisions. It is submitted that W.P.(C.)
No. 11271/2009 Page 6 of 38 even if Sh. Shailesh Gandhi, Central Information
Commissioner, was of the opinion that the earlier views taken by two other
learned CICs were not correct, the proper course of action for him to adopt
would have been to record his reasons for not agreeing with the earlier views
of the Central Information Commissioners, and to refer the said issue for
determination by a larger bench of the Central Information Commission. Sitting
singly, Sh. Shailesh Gandhi, Central Information Commissioner, could not have
taken a contrary view by merely observing that he disagrees with the earlier
views.
10\. The further submission of learned counsel for the petitioners is that,
even on merits, the view taken by the CIC in the impugned orders is illegal
and not correct. It is argued that Clause (a) of Section 610 (1) of the
Companies Act, inter alia, entitles ―any person‖ to inspect any document kept
by the Registrar, which may have been filed or registered by him in pursuance
of the Companies Act, or may inspect any document, wherein the Registrar has
made a record of any fact required or authorized to be recorded to be
registered in pursuance of the Companies Act, on payment for each inspection
of such fee, as may be prescribed.
11\. Further, by virtue of Clause (b) of Section 610 (1) any person can
require the Registrar to provide certified copies of the Certificate of
Registration of any company, or a copy or extract of any other W.P.(C.) No.
11271/2009 Page 7 of 38 document, or any part of any other document, on
payment in advance of such fee, as may be prescribed. It is submitted that the
Registrar of Companies has placed all its records pertaining to, and in
relation to the companies registered with it in the public domain. They have
either been placed on the website of the ROC, or are available for inspection
at the facility of the ROC. Any person can inspect such records either on-
line, or at the facility of the petitioner-ROC and if the person so desires,
can also obtain copies of all or any of such documents on payment of charges,
as prescribed under the Rules.
12\. Learned counsel for the petitioners submits that the Companies (Central
Government's) General Rules & Forms, 1956, which have been framed in exercise
of the power conferred upon the Central Government by clauses (a) & (b) of
sub-Section (1) of Section 642 of the Companies Act, prescribe the fees for
inspection of document and for obtaining certified copies thereof in Rule 21
A, which reads as follows:
> "21A. Fees for inspection of documents etc.--The fee payable in pursuance of
> the following provisions of the Act, shall be--
> (1) Clause (a) of sub-section (1) of section 118 rupees ten.
> (2) Clause (b) of sub-section (1) of section 118 rupee one.
> (3) Sub-section (2) of section 144 rupees ten.
> (4) Clause (b) of sub-section (2) of section 163 rupees ten.
W.P.(C.) No. 11271/2009 Page 8 of 38
> (5) Clause (b) of sub-section (3) of section 163 rupee one.
> (6) Sub-section (2) of section 196 rupee one.
> (7) Clause (a) of sub-section (1) of section 610 rupees fifty.
> (8) Clause (b) of sub-section (1) of section 610-\-
                (i)   For    copy      of   certificate    of rupees fifty.
                incorporation
                (ii) For copy of extracts of other rupees
> documents including hard copy of such twenty five documents on computer
> readable media per page."
13\. Learned counsel submits that there are two kinds of information available
with the ROC. The first is the information/ documents, which the ROC is
obliged to receive, record and maintain under the provisions of the Companies
Act, and the second kind of information relates to the administration and
functioning of the office of the ROC. The first kind of information, i.e., the
returns, forms, statements, etc. received, recorded and maintained by the ROC
in relation to the companies registered with it, is all available for
inspection, and the certified copies thereof can be obtained by resort to
Section 610 of the Companies Act and the aforesaid Rules. He submits that
since this information is already in the public domain, same cannot be said to
be information held by, or in the control of the public authority, i.e., ROC.
He submits that it is the second kind of information, as aforesaid, which a
citizen can seek by invoking provisions of the RTI Act from the ROC, and not
the first kind of information which, in any event, is already available in
W.P.(C.) No. 11271/2009 Page 9 of 38 the public domain, and accessible to one
and all, including non- citizens.
14\. He submits that the right to information vested by Section 3 of the RTI
Act is available only to citizens. However, the right vested by virtue of
Section 610 of the Companies Act can be exercised by any person, whether, or
not, he is a citizen of India. Therefore, the right vested by Section 610 of
the Companies Act is much wider in its scope than the right vested by Section
3 of the RTI Act. It is argued that the object of the RTI Act is to enable the
citizens to access information so as to bring about transparency in the
functioning of public authorities, which is considered vital to the
functioning of democracy and is also essential to contain corruption and to
hold governments and their instrumentalities accountable to those who are
governed, i.e., the citizens. The information accessible under Section 610 is,
in any event, freely available and all that the person desirous of accessing
such information is required to do, is to make the application in terms of the
said provision and the Rules, to become entitled to receive the information.
15\. Learned counsel submits that the fees prescribed for provision of
information under the RTI Act is nominal and much less compared to the fees
prescribed under Rule 21 A. Learned counsel for the petitioners submits that
the petitioners have consciously prescribed W.P.(C.) No. 11271/2009 Page 10 of
38 the fees under the RTI Act as a nominal amount of Rs.10/- per application
since the petitioner-ROC does not wish to make it inconvenient or difficult
for the citizens to obtain information held by or under the control of the ROC
under the said Act. However, the said provision cannot be exploited or misused
by a citizen for the purpose of seeking information, which is available in the
public domain and is accessible under Section 610 of the Companies Act by
payment of prescribed fee under Rule 21 A of the aforesaid Rules.
16\. On the other hand, the submission of learned counsel for the respondent-
querist is that the provisions of the RTI Act have effect notwithstanding
anything inconsistent therewith contained in the Official Secrets Act, 1923
and any other law for the time being in force or in any instrument having
effect by virtue of any law other than the RTI Act itself. In this respect
reference is made to Section 22 of the RTI Act. It is, therefore, argued that
a citizen has an option to seek information from the ROC, either by resort to
Section 610 of the Companies Act or by resort to the provisions of the RTI
Act. Merely because Section 610 exists on the Statute Book, it does not mean
that the right available under the RTI Act to seek information can be
curtailed or denied.
17\. Learned counsel for the respondent further submits that under Section 610
of the Companies Act, a person can access only such W.P.(C.) No. 11271/2009
Page 11 of 38 information which has been filed or registered by him (i.e., the
person seeking the information), in pursuance of the Companies Act. He submits
that the expression "being documents filed or registered by him in pursuance
of this Act" used in Section 610(1)(a) of the Companies Act connect with the
words "any person" and not with the words "inspect any documents kept by the
Registrar".
18\. Section 610 of the Companies Act, 1956 reads as follows:
> ―610. Inspection, production and evidence of documents kept by Registrar.
> (1) [Save as otherwise provided elsewhere in this Act, any person may]-
> (a) inspect any documents kept by the Registrar [in accordance with the
> rules made under the Destruction of Records Act, 1917] being documents filed
> or registered by him in pursuance of this Act, or making a record of any
> fact required or authorised to be recorded or registered in pursuance of
> this Act, on payment for each inspection, of [such fees as may be
> prescribed];
> (b) require a certificate of the incorporation of any company, or a copy or
> extract of any other document or any part of any other document to be
> certified by the Registrar, [on payment in advance of [such fees as may be
> prescribed:] Provided that the rights conferred by this sub-section shall be
> exercisable-
> (i) in relation to documents delivered to the Registrar with a prospectus in
> pursuance of sub-clause (i) of clause (b) of sub-section (1) of section 60,
> only during the fourteen days beginning with the date of publication of the
> prospectus; and at other times, only with the permission of the Central
> Government; and W.P.(C.) No. 11271/2009 Page 12 of 38
> (ii) in relation to documents so delivered in pursuance of clause (b) of
> sub-section (1) of section 605, only during the fourteen days beginning with
> the date of the prospectus; and at other times, only with the permission of
> the Central Government.
> (2) No process for compelling the production of any document kept by the
> Registrar shall issue from any Court [or the [Tribunal]] except with the
> leave of that Court [or the [Tribunal]] and any such process, if issued,
> shall bear thereon a statement that it is issued with the leave of the Court
> [or the [Tribunal]].
> (3) A copy of, or extract from, any document kept and registered at any of
> the officers for the registration of companies under this Act, certified to
> be a true copy under the hand of the Registrar (whose official position it
> shall not be necessary to prove), shall, in all legal proceedings, be
> admissible in evidence as of equal validity with the original document‖.
19\. The submission of learned counsel for the respondent that only the person
who has filed documents with the Registrar of Companies is entitled to inspect
the same is wholly fallacious and deserves to be outrightly rejected. This
interpretation is clearly not borne out either from the plain language of
section 610 or upon a scrutiny of the object and purpose of the said
provision. Section 610 enables ―any person‖ to inspect any documents kept by
the registrar, being documents ―filed or registered by him in pursuance of
this Act‖. The obligation to file and register the documents, which may be
submitted by a company registered, or seeking registration with the Registrar
of Companies, is that of the Registrar of Companies. It is the Registrar, who
makes a W.P.(C.) No. 11271/2009 Page 13 of 38 record of any fact required or
authorized to be recoded or registered in pursuance of the Companies Act, and
not ―any person‖.
20\. If the submission of learned counsel for the respondent were to be
accepted, it would mean that it is the applicant under section 610, who is
obliged to make a record of any fact required, or authorized to be recorded or
registered in pursuance of the Companies Act, which is not the case. It is
also not the obligation of ―any person‖ either to file, or to receive and put
on record, or to register, the documents lodged by him in the office of the
ROC. That is the obligation of the Registrar of Companies. The whole purpose
of section 610 is to bring about full and complete transparency in the matter
of registration of companies and in the matter of their accounts and
directorship, so that any person can obtain all the relevant information in
relation to any registered company.
21\. Pertinently, the language used in clause (b) does not support the
submission of the respondent at all. If the submission of learned counsel for
the respondent were to be accepted, it would mean that while a person can
inspect only those documents which he has lodged in the office of the
Registrar of Companies (by virtue of clause (a)), at the same time, under
clause (b) of section 610(1), he can obtain the certificate of incorporation
of any company, or a copy or extract of any other document or any part of any
other document duly certified by W.P.(C.) No. 11271/2009 Page 14 of 38 the
Registrar.
22\. Section 610(2) puts a check on issuance of a process for compelling the
production of any document by the Registrar, by any Court or Tribunal. It
requires that such process would not be issued except with the leave of the
Court or the Tribunal. This check has been placed, since any person can obtain
information either through inspection, or by obtaining certified copies of
documents filed by any company, by following the procedure prescribed, and a
certified true copies of any such documents or extracts is admissible in
evidence in all legal proceedings, and has the same efficacy and validity as
the original documents filed and registered by the Registrar of Companies (see
section 610(3)).
23\. There can be no doubt that the documents kept by the Registrar, which are
filed or registered by him, as well as the record of any fact required or
authorized to be recorded by the Registrar or registered in pursuance of the
Companies Act qualifies as ―information‖ within the meaning of that expression
as used in Section 2(f) of the RTI Act. However, the question is -- whether
the mere fact that the said documents/record constitutes ―information‖, is
sufficient to entitle a citizen to invoke the provisions of the RTI Act to
access the same?
24\. The Parliament has defined the expression ―right to information‖ under
Section 2(j). The same reads as follows:
W.P.(C.) No. 11271/2009 Page 15 of 38
> "2. (j) "right to information" means the right to information accessible
> under this Act which is held by or under the control of any public authority
> and includes the right to--
           (i)     Inspection of work, documents, records;
           (ii)    Taking notes, extracts,     or   certified   copies   of
                   documents or records;
           (iii)   Taking certified samples of material;
           (iv)    Obtaining information in the form of diskettes,
> floppies, tapes, video cassettes or in any other electronic mode or through
> printouts where such information is stored in a computer or in any other
> device;"
25\. The right to information is conferred by section 3 of the RTI Act, which
reads as follows:
"3. Right to information.--Subject to the provisions of this Act, all citizens
shall have the right to information."
26\. Pertinently, the Parliament did not use the language in Section 3:
"Subject to the provisions of this Act, citizens shall have a right to access
all information", or the like. Therefore, the right conferred by Section 3 of
the RTI Act, which is the substantive provision, means the right to
information ―accessible under the Act which is held by or under the control of
any public authority and includes ..... ..... .....".
27\. It is not without any purpose that the Parliament took the trouble of
defining ―right to information‖. Parliament does not undertake a casual or
purposeless legislative exercise. The definition of ―right to information‖
specifically qualifies the said right with the words: W.P.(C.) No. 11271/2009
Page 16 of 38
(1) ―accessible under this Act‖, and;
(2) "which is held by or under the control of any public authority".
28\. The information should, firstly, be accessible under this Act. This means
that if there is information which is not accessible under this Act, there is
no ―right to information‖ in respect thereof. Consequently, there is no right
to information in respect of information, which is exempted from disclosure
under Section 8 or Section 9 of the RTI Act.
29\. A particular information may not be held by, or may not be under the
control of the public authority concerned. There would be no right in a
citizen to seek such information from that particular public authority, though
he may have the right to seek the same information from another public
authority who holds or under whose control the desired information resides.
That is why Section 6(3) provides that an application to seek information:
(i) Which is held by another public authority; or
(ii) The subject matter of which is more closely connected with the functions
of another public authority, shall be transferred to that other public
authority.
30\. But is that all to the expression ―held by or under the control of any
public authority‖ used in the definition of ―Right to information‖ in W.P.(C.)
No. 11271/2009 Page 17 of 38 Section 2(j) of the RTI Act?
31\. In the context of the object of the RTI Act, and the various provisions
thereof, in my view, the said expression ―held by or under the control of any
public authority‖ used in section 2(j) of the RTI Act deserves a wider and a
more meaningful interpretation. The expression ―Hold‖ is defined in the
Black's Law dictionary, 6th Edition, inter alia, in the same way as ―to keep‖
i.e. to retain, to maintain possession of, or authority over.
32\. The expression ―held‖ is also defined in the Shorter Oxford Dictionary,
inter alia, as ―prevent from getting away; keep fast, grasp, have a grip on‖.
It is also defined, inter alia, as ―not let go; keep, retain".
33\. The expression ―control‖ is defined in the Advanced Law Lexicon by P.N.
Ramanatha Aiyar 3rd Edition Reprint 2009 and it reads as follows:
> "(As a verb) To restrain; to check; to regulate; to govern; to keep under
> check; to hold in restraint; to dominate; to rule and direct; to counteract;
> to exercise a directing, restraining or governing influence over; to govern
> with reference thereto; to subject to authority; to have under command, and
> authority over, to have authority over the particular matter. (Ame. Cyc)"
34\. From the above, it appears that the expression ―held by‖ or ―under the
control of any public authority‖, in relation to ―information‖, W.P.(C.) No.
11271/2009 Page 18 of 38 means that information which is held by the public
authority under its control to the exclusion of others. It cannot mean that
information which the public authority has already ―let go‖, i.e. shared
generally with the citizens, and also that information, in respect of which
there is a statutory mechanism evolved, (independent of the RTI Act) which
obliges the public authority to share the same with the citizenry by following
the prescribed procedure, and upon fulfillment of the prescribed conditions.
This is so, because in respect of such information, which the public authority
is statutorily obliged to disseminate, it cannot be said that the public
authority ―holds‖ or ―controls‖ the same. There is no exclusivity in such
holding or control. In fact, the control vests in the seeker of the
information who has only to operate the statutorily prescribed mechanism to
access the information. It is not this kind of information, which appears to
fall within the meaning of the expression ―right to information‖, as the
information in relation to which the ―right to information‖ is specifically
conferred by the RTI Act is that information which "is held by or under the
control of any public authority".
35\. The mere prescription of a higher charge in the other statutory mechanism
(in this case Section 610 of the Companies Act), than that prescribed under
the RTI Act does not make any difference whatsoever. The right available to
any person to seek inspection/copies of documents under Section 610 of the
Companies W.P.(C.) No. 11271/2009 Page 19 of 38 Act is governed by the
Companies (Central Government's) General Rules & Forms, 1956, which are
statutory rules and prescribe the fees for inspection of documents, etc. in
Rule 21A. The said rules being statutory in nature and specific in their
application, do not get overridden by the rules framed under the RTI Act with
regard to prescription of fee for supply of information, which is general in
nature, and apply to all kinds of applications made under the RTI Act to seek
information. It would also be complete waste of public funds to require the
creation and maintenance of two parallel machineries by the ROC - one under
Section 610 of the Companies Act, and the other under the RTI Act to provide
the same information to an applicant. It would lead to unnecessary and
avoidable duplication of work and consequent expenditure.
36\. The right to information is required to be balanced with the need to
optimize use of limited fiscal resources. In this context I may refer to the
relevant extract of the Preamble to the RTI Act which, inter alia, provides:-
> "AND WHEREAS revelation of information in actual practice is likely to
> conflict with other public interests including efficient operations of the
> Governments, optimum use of limited fiscal resources and the preservation of
> confidentially of sensitive information;
> AND WHEREAS it is necessary to harmonise these conflicting interests while
> preserving the paramountancy of the democratic ideal;" (emphasis supplied).
W.P.(C.) No. 11271/2009 Page 20 of 38
37\. Section 4(1)(a) also lays emphasis on availability of recourses, when it
talks about computerization of the records. Therefore, in the exploitation and
implementation of the RTI Act, a delicate and reasonable balance is required
to be maintained. Nobody can go overboard or loose ones equilibrium and sway
in one direction or assume an extreme position either in favour of upholding
the right to information granted by the RTI Act, or to deny the said right.
38\. The Supreme Court in The Institute of Chartered Accountants of India Vs.
Shaunak H. Satya & Others, Civil Appeal No. 7571/2011 decided on 02.09.2011,
observed that:
> "it is necessary to make a distinction in regard to information intended to
> bring transparency, to improve accountability and to reduce corruption,
> falling under section 4(1)(b) and (c) and other information which may not
> have a bearing on accountability or reducing corruption. The competent
> authorities under the RTI Act will have to maintain a proper balance so that
> while achieving transparency, the demand for information does not reach
> unmanageable proportions affecting other public interests, which include
> efficient operation of public authorities and government, preservation of
> confidentiality of sensitive information and optimum use of limited fiscal
> resources."(emphasis supplied).
39\. Therefore, if another statutory provision, created under any other law,
vests the right to seek information and provides the mechanism for invoking
the said right (which is also statutory, as in this case) that mechanism
should be preserved and operated, and not destroyed W.P.(C.) No. 11271/2009
Page 21 of 38 merely because another general law created to empower the
citizens to access information has subsequently been framed.
40\. Section 4 of the RTI Act obliges every public authority, inter alia, to
publish on its own, information described in clause (b) of sub-Section (1) of
Section 4. Sub-clause (xv) of clause (b) obliges the public authority to
publish "the particulars of facilities available to citizens for obtaining
information ..... ..... .....". In the present case, the facility is made
available - not just to citizens but to any person, for obtaining information
from the ROC, under Section 610 of the Companies Act, and the Rules framed
thereunder above referred to. Section 4(2) of the RTI Act itself postulates
that in respect of information provided by the public authority suo moto,
there should be minimum resort to use of the RTI Act to obtain information.
41\. The submission of learned counsel for the respondent founded upon Section
22 of the RTI Act also has no merit. Section 22 of the RTI Act reads as
follows:
> "22. The provisions of this Act shall have effect notwithstanding anything
> inconsistent therewith contained in the Official Secrets Act, 1923, and any
> other law for the time being in force or in any instrument having effect by
> virtue of any law other than this Act."
42\. Firstly, I may notice that I do not find anything inconsistent between
the scheme provided under Section 610 of the Companies Act W.P.(C.) No.
11271/2009 Page 22 of 38 and the provisions of the RTI Act. Merely because a
different charge is collected for providing information under Section 610 of
the Companies Act than that prescribed as the fee for providing information
under the RTI Act does not lead to an inconsistency in the provisions of these
two enactments. Even otherwise, the provisions of the RTI Act would not
override the provision contained in Section 610 of the Companies Act. Section
610 of the Companies Act is an earlier piece of legislation. The said
provision was introduced in the Companies Act, 1956 at the time of its
enactment in the year 1956 itself. On the other hand, the RTI Act is a much
later enactment, enacted in the year 2005. The RTI Act is a general
law/enactment which deals with the right of a citizen to access information
available with a public authority, subject to the conditions and limitations
prescribed in the said Act. On the other hand, Section 610 of the Companies
Act is a piece of special legislation, which deals specifically with the right
of any person to inspect and obtain records i.e. information from the ROC.
Therefore, the later general law cannot be read or understood to have
abrogated the earlier special law.
43\. The Supreme Court in Ashoka Marketing Limited and Another Vs. Punjab
National Bank and Others, (1990) 4 SCC 406, applied and explained the legal
maxim: leges posteriors priores conterarias abrogant, (later laws abrogate
earlier contrary laws). This principle is subject to the exception embodied in
the maxim: generalia specialibus non derogant, (a general provision does not
derogate from W.P.(C.) No. 11271/2009 Page 23 of 38 a special one). This means
that where the literal meaning of the general enactment covers a situation for
which specific provision is made by another enactment contained in an earlier
Act, it is presumed that the situation was intended to continue to be dealt
with by the specific provision rather than the later general one (Benion:
Statutory Interpretation p. 433-34). One of the principles of statutory
interpretation is that the later law abrogates earlier contrary laws. This
principle is subject to the exception embodied in the second latin maxim
mentioned above. The Supreme Court in paragraphs 50-52 of this decision held
as follows:
> "50. One such principle of statutory interpretation which is applied is
> contained in the latin maxim: leges posteriors priores conterarias abrogant,
> (later laws abrogate earlier contrary. laws). This principle is subject to
> the exception embodied in the maxim: generalia specialibus non derogant, (a
> general provision does not derogate from a special one). This means that
> where the literal meaning of the general enactment covers a situation for
> which specific provision is made by another enactment contained in an
> earlier Act, it is presumed that the situation was intended to continue to
> be dealt with by the specific provision rather than the later general one
> (Benion: Statutory Interpretation p. 433-34).
> 51\. The rationale of this rule is thus explained by this Court in the J.K.
> Cotton Spinning & Weaving Mills Co. Ltd. v. The State of Uttar Pradesh &
> Others, [1961] 3 SCR 185:
> "The rule that general provisions should yield to specific provisions is not
> an arbitrary principle made by lawyers and judges but springs from the
> common understanding of men and women that when the same person gives two
> directions one covering a large number of matters in general and another to
> only some of them his intention is that these latter directions should
> prevail as regards these while as W.P.(C.) No. 11271/2009 Page 24 of 38
> regards all the rest the earlier directions should have effect."
> 52\. In U.P. State Electricity Board v. Hari Shankar Jain, [1979] 1 SCR 355
> this Court has observed:
> "In passing a special Act, Parliament devotes its entire consideration to a
> particular subject. When a general Act is subsequently passed, it is logical
> to presume that Parliament has not repealed or modified the former special
> Act unless it appears that the special Act again received consideration from
> Parliament." "
> 44\. Justice G.P. Singh in his well-known work "Principles of Statutory
> Interpretation 12th Edition 2010" has dealt with the principles of
> interpretation applicable while examining the interplay between a prior
> special law and a later general law. While doing so, he quotes Lord
> Philimore from Nicolle Vs. Nicolle, (1922) 1 AC 284, where he observed:
> "it is a sound principle of all jurisprudence that a prior particular law is
> not easily to be held to be abrogated by a posterior law, expressed in
> general terms and by the apparent generality of its language applicable to
> and covering a number of cases, of which the particular law is but one.
> This, as a matter of jurisprudence, as understood in England, has been laid
> down in a great number of cases, whether the prior law be an express
> statute, or be the underlying common or customary law of the country. Where
> general words in a later Act are capable of reasonable and sensible
> application without extending them to subjects specially dealt with by
> earlier legislation, that earlier and special legislation is not to be held
> indirectly repealed, altered or derogated from merely by force of such
> general words, without any indication of a particular intention to do so."
W.P.(C.) No. 11271/2009 Page 25 of 38
> 45\. The Supreme Court in R.S. Raghunath Vs. State of Karnataka & Another,
> (1992) 3 SCC 335, quotes from Maxwell on The Interpretation of Statutes, the
> following passage:
> "A general later law does not abrogate an earlier special one by mere
> implication. Generalia specialibus non derogant, or, in other words, where
> there are general words in a later Act capable of reasonable and sensible
> application without extending them to subjects specially dealt with by
> earlier legislation, you are not to hold that earlier and special
> legislation indirectly repealed, altered, or derogated from merely by force
> of such general words, without any indication of a particular intention to
> do so. In such cases it is presumed to have only general cases in view, and
> not particular cases which have been already otherwise provided for by the
> special Act."
> 46\. This principle has been applied in Maharaja Pratap Singh Bahadur Vs.
> Thakur Manmohan Dey & Others, AIR 1996 SC 1931 as well. Therefore, Section
> 22 of the RTI Act, in any event, does not come in the way of application of
> Section 610 of the Companies Act, 1956\.
47\. Now, I turn to consider the submission of learned counsel for the
petitioner that the Central Information Commissioner Sh. Shailesh Gandhi has
acted with impropriety while passing the impugned order, by disregarding the
earlier orders of the other Central Information Commissioners and by taking a
decision contrary to them without even referring the matter to a larger bench.
W.P.(C.) No. 11271/2009 Page 26 of 38
48\. In Sh. K. Lall Vs. Sh. M.K. Bagri, Assistant Registrar of Companies &
CPIO, F. No. CIC/AT/A/2007/00112, the Central Information Commissioner Sh.
A.N. Tiwari squarely considered the very same issue with regard to the
interplay between Section 610 of the Companies Act and the rights of a citizen
to obtain information under the RTI Act. Sh. A.N. Tiwari by a detailed and
considered decision held that information which can be accessed by resort to
Section 610 of the Companies Act cannot be accessed by resort to the
provisions of the RTI Act. The discussion found in his aforesaid order on this
legal issue reads as follows:
> "9. It shall be interesting to examine this proposition. Section 2(j) of the
> RTI Act speaks of "the right to information accessible under this Act which
> is held by or under the control of any public authority.......". The use of
> the words "accessible under this Act"; "held by" and "under the control of"
> are crucial in this regard. The inference from the text of this sub-section
> and, especially the three expressions quoted above, is that an information
> to which a citizen will have a right should be shown to be
> a) an information which is accessible under the RTI Act and
> b) that it is held or is under the control of a certain public authority.
> This should mean that unless an information is exclusively held and
> controlled by a public authority, that information cannot be said to be an
> information accessible under the RTI Act. Inferentially it would mean that
> once a certain information is placed in the public domain accessible to the
> citizens either freely, or on payment of a pre-determined price, that
> information cannot be said to be „held‟ or „under the control of‟ the public
> authority and, thus would cease to be an information accessible under the
> RTI Act. This interpretation is further strengthened by the provisions of
> the RTI Act in Sections 4(2), 4(3) and 4(4), which oblige the public
> authority to constantly endeavour "to take steps in accordance with the
> requirement of clause b of subsection 1 of the Section 4 to provide as
> W.P.(C.) No. 11271/2009 Page 27 of 38 much information suo-motu to the
> public at regular intervals through various means of communication including
> internet, so that the public have minimum resort to the use of this Act to
> obtain information." (Section 4 sub-section 2). This Section further
> elaborates the position. It states that "All materials shall be disseminated
> taking into consideration the cost effectiveness, local language and the
> most effective method of communication in that local area and the
> information should be easily accessible, to the extent possible in
> electronic format with the Central Public Information Officer or State
> Public Information Officer, as the case may be, available free or at such
> cost of the medium or the print cost price as may be prescribed." The
> explanation to the subsection 4 section 4 goes on to further clarify that
> the word "disseminated" used in this Section would mean the medium of
> communicating the information to the public which include, among others, the
> internet or any other means including inspection of office of any public
> authority.
> 10\. It is significant that the direction regarding dissemination of
> information through free or priced documents, or free or priced access to
> information stored on internet, electronic means, or held manually; free or
> on payment of predetermined cost for inspection of such documents or records
> held by public authorities, appear in a chapter on „obligations of public
> authorities‟. The inference from these sections is a) it is the obligation
> of the public authorities to voluntarily disseminate information so that
> "the public have minimum resort to the use of this Act to obtain
> information", b) once an information is voluntarily disseminated it is
> excluded from the purview of the RTI Act and, to that extant, contributes to
> minimizing the resort to the use of this Act, c) there is no obligation cast
> on the public authority to disseminate all such information free of cost.
> The Act authorizes the public authorities to disclose such information suo-
> motu "at such cost of a medium or the print cost price as may be
> prescribed", d) the RTI Act authorizes the public authority to price access
> to the information which it places in the public domain suo-motu.
> 11\. These provisions are in consonance with the wording of the Section 2(j)
> which clearly demarcates the boundary between an information held or under
> the control of the public authority and, an information not so held, or
> under the control of that public authority who suo-motu places W.P.(C.) No.
> 11271/2009 Page 28 of 38 that information in public domain. It is only the
> former which shall be "accessible under this Act" ― viz. the RTI Act and,
> not the latter. This latter category of information forms the burden of sub-
> section 2, 3 and 4 of Section 4 of this Act.
> 12\. The RTI Act very clearly sets the course for the evolution of the RTI
> regime, which is that less and less information should be progressively held
> by public authorities, which would be accessed under the RTI Act and more
> and more of such held information should be brought into the public domain
> suo-motu by such public authority. Once the information is brought into the
> public domain it is excluded from the purview of the RTI Act and, the right
> to access this category of information shall be on the basis of whether the
> public authority discloses it free, or at such cost of the medium or the
> print cost price "as may be prescribed". The Act therefore vests in the
> public authority the power and the right to prescribe the mode of access to
> voluntarily disclosed information, i.e. either free or at a prescribed cost
> / price.
> 13\. The respondents are right therefore in arguing that since they had
> placed in the public domain a large part of the information requested by the
> appellant and prescribed the price of accessing that information either on
> the internet or through inspection of documents, the ground rules of
> accessing this information shall be determined by the decision of the public
> authority and not the RTI Act and the Rules. That is to say, such
> information shall not be covered by the provisions about fee and cost of
> supply of information as laid down in Section 7 of the RTI Act and the Rules
> thereof.
> 14\. It is, therefore, my view that it should not only be the endeavour of
> every public authority, but its sacred duty, to suo-motu bring into public
> domain information held in its control. The public authority will have the
> power and the right to decide the price at which all such voluntarily
> disclosed information shall be allowed to be accessed.
> 15\. There is one additional point which also needs to be considered in this
> matter. The appellant had brought up the issue of the overarching power of
> the RTI Act under Section 22. This Section of the Act states that the
> provisions of the Act shall have effect notwithstanding W.P.(C.) No.
> 11271/2009 Page 29 of 38 anything inconsistent therewith contained in the
> Official Secrets Act, 1923, and any other law for the time being in force or
> in any instrument having effect by virtue of any law other than this Act. In
> his view, the pricing of the access to the records and information by the
> public authority at a scale different from the rates / fees for accessing
> the information prescribed under the Act amounts to inconsistency. A closer
> look at the provision shows that this is not so. As has been explained in
> the preceding paragraphs, the fees prescribed for access to information
> under the RTI Act applies only to information „held‟ or „under the control
> of‟ the public authority. It does not apply inferentially to the information
> not held or not under the control of the public authority having been
> brought into the public domain suo-motu in terms of sub- section 3 of
> Section 4. The price and the cost of access of information determined by the
> public authority applies to the latter category. As such, there is no
> inconsistency between the two provisions which are actually parallel and
> independent of each other. I therefore hold that no ground to annul the
> provision of pricing the information which the public authority in this case
> has done, exists.
> 16\. In my considered view, therefore, the CPIO and the AA were acting in
> consonance with the provision of this Act when they called upon the
> appellant to access the information requested and not otherwise supplied to
> him by the CPIO, by paying the price / cost as determined by the public
> authority."
49\. This view was followed by Sh. A.N. Tiwari in a subsequent order dated
29.08.2007 in "Shri Shriram (Dada) Tichkule Vs. Shri P.K. Galchor, Assistant
Registrar of Companies & PIO". The same view was taken by another Central
Information Commissioner namely, Prof. M.M. Ansari in his orders dated
29.03.2006 in Arun Verma Vs. Department of Company Affairs, Appeal No.
21/IC(A)/2006, and in the case of Sh. Sonal Amit Shah Vs. Registrar of
Companies, Decision No. 2146/IC(A)/2008 dated 31.03.2008, and various others,
W.P.(C.) No. 11271/2009 Page 30 of 38 copies of which have been placed on
record. It appears that all these decisions were cited before learned Central
Information Commissioner Sh. Shailesh Gandhi. In fact, in the impugned order,
he also refers to these decisions and states that "I would respectfully beg to
differ from this decision".
50\. The Central Information Commission while functioning under the provisions
of the RTI Act, no doubt, do not constitute a Court. However, there can be no
doubt about the fact that Central Information Commission functions as a quasi-
judicial authority, as he determines inter se rights and obligations of the
parties in relation to the grant of information, which may entail civil and
other consequences for the parties.
51\. This Court in Union Public Service Commission Vs. Shiv Shambhu & Others,
L.P.A. No. 313/2007 decided on 03.09.2008, while dealing with the issue
whether the Central Information Commissioner should be impleaded as a party
respondent in proceedings challenging its order and whether the Central
Information Commission has a right of audience to defend its order before this
Court in writ proceedings, observed as follows:
> "2. At the outset this Court directs the deletion of the CIC which has been
> arrayed as Respondent No. 1 to this appeal, consequent upon it being arrayed
> as such in the writ petition. This Court has repeatedly issued practice
> directions stressing that a judicial or quasi-judicial body or Tribunal
> whose order is challenged in a writ petition (and W.P.(C.) No. 11271/2009
> Page 31 of 38 thereafter possibly in appeal) ought not to itself be
> impleaded as a party respondent. The only exception would be if malafides
> are alleged against any individual member of such authority or Tribunal in
> which case again it would be such member, and not the authority/Tribunal,
> who may be impleaded as a respondent. Accordingly the cause title of the
> present appeal will read as Union Public Service Commission v. Shiv Shambhu
> & Ors."
52\. This decision has subsequently been followed in State Bank of India Vs.
Mohd. Shahjahan, W.P.(C.) No. 9810/2009, wherein the Court held as follows:
> "12. This Court is unable to accept the above submission. There is no
> question of making the CIC, whose order is under challenge in this writ
> petition, a party to this petition. Like any other quasi-judicial authority,
> the CIC is not expected to defend its own orders. Likewise, the CIC cannot
> be called upon to explain why it did not follow any of its earlier orders.
> That the CIC should not be made a party in such proceedings is settled by
> the judgment of the Division Bench in this Court in Union Public Service
> Commission v. Shiv Shambu 2008 IX (Del) 289."
53\. It is, therefore, a well-recognised position that the CIC discharges
quasi-judicial functions while deciding complaints/appeals preferred by one or
the other party before it.
54\. It is a well-settled canon of judicial discipline that a bench dealing
with a matter respects an earlier decision rendered by a coordinate bench
(i.e., a bench of same strength), and is bound by the decision of a larger
bench. If this discipline is breached, the same would lead to complete chaos
and confusion in the minds of the W.P.(C.) No. 11271/2009 Page 32 of 38
litigating public, as well as in the minds of others such as lawyers, other
members/judges of quasi-judicial/judicial bodies, and the like. Breach of such
discipline would result in discrimination and would shake the confidence of
the consumers of justice. There can be no greater source of discomfiture to a
litigant and his counsel, than to have to deal with diametrically opposite
views of coordinate benches of the same judicial /quasi-judicial body. If the
emergence of contradictory views is innocent i.e. due to ignorance of an
earlier view, it is pardonable, but when such a situation is created
consciously, with open eyes, and after having been put to notice, the
judge/authority responsible for the later view should take the blame for
creating confusion and for breaching judicial discipline.
55\. The Supreme Court in Dr. Vijay Laxmi Sadho Vs. Jagdish, (2001) 2 SCC 247,
deprecated such lack of judicial discipline by observing as follows:
> "33. As the learned Single Judge was not in agreement with the view
> expressed in Devilal's case, Election Petition No. 9 of 1980, it would have
> been proper, to maintain judicial discipline, to refer the matter to a
> larger Bench rather than to take a different view. We note it with regret
> and distress that the said course was not followed. It is well-settled that
> if a Bench of coordinate jurisdiction disagrees with another Bench of
> coordinate jurisdiction whether on the basis of "different arguments" or
> otherwise, on a question of law, it is appropriate that the matter be
> referred to a larger Bench for resolution of the issue rather than to leave
> two conflicting judgments to operate, creating confusion. It is not proper
> to sacrifice certainty of W.P.(C.) No. 11271/2009 Page 33 of 38 law.
> Judicial decorum, no less than legal propriety forms the basis of judicial
> procedure and it must be respected at all costs." (emphasis supplied)
56\. In the present case, the Central Information Commissioner Mr.Shailesh
Gandhi has also demonstrated complete lack of judicial discipline while
rendering the impugned decisions. By no stretch of imagination, it cannot be
said that the earlier decisions were not on the point. Particularly, the
decision rendered by Sh. A.N. Tiwari in F. CIC/T/A/2007/0012 dated 12.04.2007
directly deals with the very same issue, and is an exhaustive, and detailed
and considered decision. If the Central Information Commissioner Sh. Shailesh
Gandhi had a different view in the matter - which he was entitled to hold,
judicial discipline demanded that he should have recorded his disagreement
with the view of Sh. A.N. Tiwari, Central Information Commissioner, and, for
reasons to be recorded by him, required the constitution of a larger bench to
re-examine the issue. He could not have ridden rough shot over the earlier
decisions of Sh. A.N. Tiwari and Prof. M.M. Ansari, particularly when he was
sitting singly to consider the same issue of law.
57\. The consequence of the improper conduct of Sh. Shailesh Gandhi, Central
Information Commissioner, is that there are now two sets of conflicting
orders- taking diametrically opposite views, on the issue aforesaid.
Therefore, unless the said legal issue is settled one W.P.(C.) No. 11271/2009
Page 34 of 38 way or the other by a higher judicial forum, it would be open to
any other Information Commissioner to choose to follow one or the other view.
This would certainly lead to confusion and chaos. It would also lead to
discrimination between the querists/public authority, who are either seeking
information or are defending the action under the RTI Act. One such instance,
cited by learned counsel for the petitioner is in the case of Smt. Dayawati
Vs. Office of Registrar of Companies, in CIC/SS/C/2011/000607 decided on
23.03.2012. In this case, once again the same issue had been raised. The
Central Information Commissioner Smt. Sushma Singh has preferred to follow the
view of Sh. A.N. Tiwari in the case of K. Lall Vs. Ministry of Company
Affairs, Appeal No. CIC/AT/A/2007/00112 dated 14.04.2007.
58\. On this short ground alone, the impugned orders of the learned Central
Information Commissioner deserve to be quashed and set aside.
59\. The reasoning adopted by Shri Shailesh Gandhi, the learned Central
Information Commissioner for taking a view contrary to that taken by Sh. A.N.
Tiwari in his order dated 12.04.2007 (which has been extracted hereinabove),
does not appeal to me. The view taken by Sh.A.N. Tiwari, Central Information
Commissioner appeals to this Court in preference to the view taken by Sh.
Shailesh Gandhi, Central Information Commissioner in the impugned orders. The
impugned W.P.(C.) No. 11271/2009 Page 35 of 38 orders do not discuss, analyse
or interpret the expression ―right to information‖ as defined in Section 2(j)
of the RTI Act. They do not even address the aspect of Section 610 of the
Companies Act being a special law as opposed to the RTI Act.
60\. I may also observe that the approach of the Central Information
Commission in seeking to invoke Section 20 of the RTI Act in the facts of the
present case is wholly unjustified. By no stretch of imagination could it have
been said that PIOs of the ROC had acted ―without any reasonable cause‖ or
―malafidely denied the request for information or knowingly gave incorrect,
incomplete or misleading information, or destroyed information, which was the
subject of the request, or obstructed in any manner the furnishing of
information‖. The PIOs were guided by the departmental circular No. 1/2006
dated 24.01.2006 in the view that they communicate to the respondent- querist.
This view was taken by none other than the Director Inspection & Investigation
in the Ministry of Company Affairs, Government of India and circulated to all
Regional Directors of Registrar of Companies and all Official Liquidators.
There was nothing before the PIOs to suggest that the said view had been
disproved by any judicial or quasi-judicial authority. Clearly, the PIOs acted
bonafide and without any malice.
W.P.(C.) No. 11271/2009 Page 36 of 38
61\. Even if it were to be assumed for the sake of argument, that the view
taken by the learned Central Information Commissioner in the impugned order
was correct, and that the PIOs were obliged to provide the information, which
was otherwise retrievable by the querist by resort to Section 610 of the
Companies Act, it could not be said that the information had been withheld
malafide or deliberately without any reasonable cause. It can happen that the
PIO may genuinely and bonafidely entertain the belief and hold the view that
the information sought by the querist cannot be provided for one or the other
reasons. Merely because the CIC eventually finds that the view taken by the
PIO was not correct, it cannot automatically lead to issuance of a show- cause
notice under Section 20 of the RTI Act and the imposition of penalty. The
legislature has cautiously provided that only in cases of malafides or
unreasonable conduct, i.e., where the PIO, without reasonable cause refuses to
receive the application, or provide the information, or knowingly gives
incorrect, incomplete or misleading information or destroys the information,
that the personal penalty on the PIO can be imposed. This was certainly not
one such case. If the CIC starts imposing penalty on the PIOs in every other
case, without any justification, it would instill a sense of constant
apprehension in those functioning as PIOs in the public authorities, and would
put undue pressure on them. They would not be able to fulfill their statutory
duties under the RTI Act with an independent mind and with W.P.(C.) No.
11271/2009 Page 37 of 38 objectivity. Such consequences would not auger well
for the future development and growth of the regime that the RTI Act seeks to
bring in, and may lead to skewed and imbalanced decisions by the PIOs
Appellate Authorities and the CIC. It may even lead to unreasonable and absurd
orders and bring the institutions created by the RTI Act in disrepute.
62\. For all the aforesaid reasons, I allow the present petition and quash the
impugned orders passed by Sh. Shailesh Gandhi, Central Information
Commissioner. The parties are left to bear their respective costs.
(VIPIN SANGHI) JUDGE JUNE 01, 2012 „BSR‟/sr W.P.(C.) No. 11271/2009 Page 38 of
38
legislature has cautiously provided that only in cases of malafides or
unreasonable conduct, i.e., where the PIO, without reasonable cause refuses to
receive the application, or provide the information, or knowingly gives
incorrect, incomplete or misleading information or destroys the information,
that the personal penalty on the PIO can be imposed. This was certainly not
one such case. If the CIC starts imposing penalty on the PIOs in every other
case, without any justification, it would instill a sense of constant
apprehension in those functioning as PIOs in the public authorities, and would
put undue pressure on them. They would not be able to fulfill their statutory
duties under the RTI Act with an independent mind and with W.P.(C.) No.
11271/2009 Page 37 of 38 objectivity. Such consequences would not auger well
for the future development and growth of the regime that the RTI Act seeks to
bring in, and may lead to skewed and imbalanced decisions by the PIOs
Appellate Authorities and the CIC. It may even lead to unreasonable and absurd
orders and bring the institutions created by the RTI Act in disrepute.
62\. For all the aforesaid reasons, I allow the present petition and quash the
Sh. Atma Shah to assail two similar orders dated 14.07.2009 passed by the
Central Information Commission (CIC) in complaint case Nos.
CIC/SG/C/2009/000702 and CIC/SG/C/2009/000753. By these similar orders, the
appeals preferred by the same respondent- querist were allowed, rejecting the
defence of the petitioners founded upon W.P.(C.) No. 11271/2009 Page 1 of 38
Section 610 of the Companies Act, 1956, and it was directed that the complete
information sought by the respondent-querist in his two applications under the
Right to Information Act (RTI Act) be provided to him before 25.07.2009. The
CIC has also directed issuance of show- cause notice to the petitioner-PIOs
under Section 20(1) of the RTI Act asking them to show-cause as to why penalty
should not be imposed upon them for not furnishing information as sought by
the querist within thirty days.
2\. The querist-Shri Dharmendra Kumar Garg filed an application under the RTI
Act on 28.05.2009 requiring the PIO of the ROC to provide the following
information in relation to company No. 056045 M/s Bloom Financial Services
Limited:
> "1. Who are the directors of this company? Please provide their name,
> address, date of appointment and copies of consent filed at ROC alongwith
> F-32 filed.
> 2\. After incorporation of above company, how many times directors were
legislature has cautiously provided that only in cases of malafides or
unreasonable conduct, i.e., where the PIO, without reasonable cause refuses to
receive the application, or provide the information, or knowingly gives
incorrect, incomplete or misleading information or destroys the information,
that the personal penalty on the PIO can be imposed. This was certainly not
one such case. If the CIC starts imposing penalty on the PIOs in every other
case, without any justification, it would instill a sense of constant
apprehension in those functioning as PIOs in the public authorities, and would
put undue pressure on them. They would not be able to fulfill their statutory
duties under the RTI Act with an independent mind and with W.P.(C.) No.
11271/2009 Page 37 of 38 objectivity. Such consequences would not auger well
for the future development and growth of the regime that the RTI Act seeks to
bring in, and may lead to skewed and imbalanced decisions by the PIOs
Appellate Authorities and the CIC. It may even lead to unreasonable and absurd
orders and bring the institutions created by the RTI Act in disrepute.
62\. For all the aforesaid reasons, I allow the present petition and quash the
Sh. Atma Shah to assail two similar orders dated 14.07.2009 passed by the
Central Information Commission (CIC) in complaint case Nos.
CIC/SG/C/2009/000702 and CIC/SG/C/2009/000753. By these similar orders, the
appeals preferred by the same respondent- querist were allowed, rejecting the
defence of the petitioners founded upon W.P.(C.) No. 11271/2009 Page 1 of 38
Section 610 of the Companies Act, 1956, and it was directed that the complete
information sought by the respondent-querist in his two applications under the
Right to Information Act (RTI Act) be provided to him before 25.07.2009. The
CIC has also directed issuance of show- cause notice to the petitioner-PIOs
under Section 20(1) of the RTI Act asking them to show-cause as to why penalty
should not be imposed upon them for not furnishing information as sought by
the querist within thirty days.
2\. The querist-Shri Dharmendra Kumar Garg filed an application under the RTI
Act on 28.05.2009 requiring the PIO of the ROC to provide the following
information in relation to company No. 056045 M/s Bloom Financial Services
Limited:
> "1. Who are the directors of this company? Please provide their name,
> address, date of appointment and copies of consent filed at ROC alongwith
> F-32 filed.
> 2\. After incorporation of above company, how many times directors were
legislature has cautiously provided that only in cases of malafides or
unreasonable conduct, i.e., where the PIO, without reasonable cause refuses to
receive the application, or provide the information, or knowingly gives
incorrect, incomplete or misleading information or destroys the information,
that the personal penalty on the PIO can be imposed. This was certainly not
one such case. If the CIC starts imposing penalty on the PIOs in every other
case, without any justification, it would instill a sense of constant
apprehension in those functioning as PIOs in the public authorities, and would
put undue pressure on them. They would not be able to fulfill their statutory
duties under the RTI Act with an independent mind and with W.P.(C.) No.
11271/2009 Page 37 of 38 objectivity. Such consequences would not auger well
for the future development and growth of the regime that the RTI Act seeks to
bring in, and may lead to skewed and imbalanced decisions by the PIOs
Appellate Authorities and the CIC. It may even lead to unreasonable and absurd
orders and bring the institutions created by the RTI Act in disrepute.
62\. For all the aforesaid reasons, I allow the present petition and quash the
Sh. Atma Shah to assail two similar orders dated 14.07.2009 passed by the
Central Information Commission (CIC) in complaint case Nos.
CIC/SG/C/2009/000702 and CIC/SG/C/2009/000753. By these similar orders, the
appeals preferred by the same respondent- querist were allowed, rejecting the
defence of the petitioners founded upon W.P.(C.) No. 11271/2009 Page 1 of 38
Section 610 of the Companies Act, 1956, and it was directed that the complete
information sought by the respondent-querist in his two applications under the
Right to Information Act (RTI Act) be provided to him before 25.07.2009. The
CIC has also directed issuance of show- cause notice to the petitioner-PIOs
under Section 20(1) of the RTI Act asking them to show-cause as to why penalty
should not be imposed upon them for not furnishing information as sought by
the querist within thirty days.
2\. The querist-Shri Dharmendra Kumar Garg filed an application under the RTI
Act on 28.05.2009 requiring the PIO of the ROC to provide the following
information in relation to company No. 056045 M/s Bloom Financial Services
Limited:
> "1. Who are the directors of this company? Please provide their name,
> address, date of appointment and copies of consent filed at ROC alongwith
> F-32 filed.
> 2\. After incorporation of above company, how many times directors were
> changed? Please provide the details of documents files and copies of Form 32
> filed at ROC.
> 3\. Please provide the copies of Annual Returns filed at ROC since
> incorporation to 1998
> 4\. On what ground prosecution has been filed. Please provide the details of
> prosecution and persons included for prosecution. Please provide the copies
> of Order Sheets and related documents.
> 5\. On what ground the name of Dharmender Kumar Garg has been included for
> prosecution?
> 6\. Please provide the copies of Form No 5 and other documents filed for
> increase of capital?
legislature has cautiously provided that only in cases of malafides or
unreasonable conduct, i.e., where the PIO, without reasonable cause refuses to
receive the application, or provide the information, or knowingly gives
incorrect, incomplete or misleading information or destroys the information,
that the personal penalty on the PIO can be imposed. This was certainly not
one such case. If the CIC starts imposing penalty on the PIOs in every other
case, without any justification, it would instill a sense of constant
apprehension in those functioning as PIOs in the public authorities, and would
put undue pressure on them. They would not be able to fulfill their statutory
duties under the RTI Act with an independent mind and with W.P.(C.) No.
11271/2009 Page 37 of 38 objectivity. Such consequences would not auger well
for the future development and growth of the regime that the RTI Act seeks to
bring in, and may lead to skewed and imbalanced decisions by the PIOs
Appellate Authorities and the CIC. It may even lead to unreasonable and absurd
orders and bring the institutions created by the RTI Act in disrepute.
62\. For all the aforesaid reasons, I allow the present petition and quash the
Sh. Atma Shah to assail two similar orders dated 14.07.2009 passed by the
Central Information Commission (CIC) in complaint case Nos.
CIC/SG/C/2009/000702 and CIC/SG/C/2009/000753. By these similar orders, the
appeals preferred by the same respondent- querist were allowed, rejecting the
defence of the petitioners founded upon W.P.(C.) No. 11271/2009 Page 1 of 38
Section 610 of the Companies Act, 1956, and it was directed that the complete
information sought by the respondent-querist in his two applications under the
Right to Information Act (RTI Act) be provided to him before 25.07.2009. The
CIC has also directed issuance of show- cause notice to the petitioner-PIOs
under Section 20(1) of the RTI Act asking them to show-cause as to why penalty
should not be imposed upon them for not furnishing information as sought by
the querist within thirty days.
2\. The querist-Shri Dharmendra Kumar Garg filed an application under the RTI
Act on 28.05.2009 requiring the PIO of the ROC to provide the following
information in relation to company No. 056045 M/s Bloom Financial Services
Limited:
> "1. Who are the directors of this company? Please provide their name,
> address, date of appointment and copies of consent filed at ROC alongwith
> F-32 filed.
> 2\. After incorporation of above company, how many times directors were
> changed? Please provide the details of documents files and copies of Form 32
> filed at ROC.
> 3\. Please provide the copies of Annual Returns filed at ROC since
> incorporation to 1998
> 4\. On what ground prosecution has been filed. Please provide the details of
> prosecution and persons included for prosecution. Please provide the copies
> of Order Sheets and related documents.
> 5\. On what ground the name of Dharmender Kumar Garg has been included for
> prosecution?
> 6\. Please provide the copies of Form No 5 and other documents filed for
> increase of capital?
legislature has cautiously provided that only in cases of malafides or
unreasonable conduct, i.e., where the PIO, without reasonable cause refuses to
receive the application, or provide the information, or knowingly gives
incorrect, incomplete or misleading information or destroys the information,
that the personal penalty on the PIO can be imposed. This was certainly not
one such case. If the CIC starts imposing penalty on the PIOs in every other
case, without any justification, it would instill a sense of constant
apprehension in those functioning as PIOs in the public authorities, and would
put undue pressure on them. They would not be able to fulfill their statutory
duties under the RTI Act with an independent mind and with W.P.(C.) No.
11271/2009 Page 37 of 38 objectivity. Such consequences would not auger well
for the future development and growth of the regime that the RTI Act seeks to
bring in, and may lead to skewed and imbalanced decisions by the PIOs
Appellate Authorities and the CIC. It may even lead to unreasonable and absurd
orders and bring the institutions created by the RTI Act in disrepute.
62\. For all the aforesaid reasons, I allow the present petition and quash the
