Income Tax Appellate Tribunal - Delhi
Godaddy.Com Llc, Gurgaon vs Dcit, Circle- 1(3)(1), ... on 24 July, 2018
                                              1                ITA No. 7123/DEL/2017
                      IN THE INCOME TAX APPELLATE TRIBUNAL
                           DELHI BENCH: 'C' NEW DELHI
                   BEFORE SHRI R. K. PANDA, ACCOUNTANT MEMBER
                                         AND
                     MS SUCHITRA KAMBLE, JUDICIAL MEMBER
                        I.T.A .No. 7123/DEL/2017 (A.Y 2014-15)
    Godaddy.com LLC                  Vs           DCIT
    C/o. Deloitte Haskins & Sells,                Circle-1(3)(1), International
    Building No. 10B, 7th Floor, DLF              Taxation, Room NO. 410, 4th
    Cyber City, Phase-2, Gurgaon                  Floor, Block-
    Haryana                                       E2, Civic Centre, J. L. N.
    AAECG7133K                                    Marg, New Delhi
    (APPELLANT)
                                                  (RESPONDENT)
                   Appellant by       Sh. S. P. Singh, AR, Sh.
                                      Manoneet Dalal, AR, Smt.
                                      Prachi Bhtia, AR
                                                              ITAT NEW DELHI
                    Date of dictation                                  19.07.2018
                    Date on which the typed draft is placed before     23.07.2018
                    the dictating Member
                    Date on which the typed draft is placed before
                    the Other Member
                    Date on which the approved draft comes to the
                    Sr. PS/PS
                    Date on which the fair order is placed before
                    the Dictating Member for pronouncement
                    Date on which the fair order comes back to the       24.07.2018
                    Sr. PS/PS
                    Date on which the final order is uploaded on         24.07.2018
                    the website of ITAT
                    Date on which the file goes to the Bench Clerk       24.07.2018
                    Date on which the file goes to the Head Clerk
                                      Prachi Bhtia, AR
                   Respondent by      Sh. G. K. Dhall, CIT DR
                       Date of Hearing             18.07.2018
                       Date of Pronouncement        24.07.2018
                                        ORDER
PER SUCHITRA KAMBLE, JM This appeal is filed by the assessee against the
Assessment Order dated 26.10.2017 passed by the DCIT, Circle-(1)(3)(1), New
Delhi for Assessment Year 2014-15.
2\. The grounds of appeal are as under:-
"Appeal against the order under section 143(3) read with Section 144C(13) of
the Income- tax Act, 1961 ("the Act") dated 26 October 2017 for the Assessment
Year  2 ITA No. 7123/DEL/2017 2014-15 passed by the Deputy Commissioner of
Income Tax, Circle 1(3)(1), Intl. Taxation, New Delhi ("AO") pursuant to the
directions of Dispute Resolution Panel-I ("DRP")
1\. That on the facts and in the circumstances of the case and in law, the
impugned order of assessment framed by the AO pursuant to the directions of
the DRP is erroneous and bad in law as well as in facts.
2\. That on the facts and in the circumstances of the case and in law, the
AO/DRP has wrongly alleged that receipts from domain name registration
amounting to INR 437,761,396 should be charged to tax as royalty as per the
provisions of section 9(l)(vi) read with section 115A of the Act.
3\. That on the facts and circumstances of the case and in law, the AO/DRP has
erred in holding that the web hosting services provided/rendered by the
Appellant qualify as fees for included services as per Article 12(4)(a) of the
India- USA Tax Treaty as well as under Section 9(l)(vii) of the Act.
4\. That on the facts and circumstances of the case and in law, the AO/DRP has
erred in not appreciating that the Appellant has characterized income from web
hosting services as royalty and already offered the same to tax as per the
provisions of section 9(l)(vi) read with section 115A of the Act.
5\. That on the facts and circumstances of the case and in law, the A.O/DRP
has erred in holding that the appellant has concealed its particulars of
income or has not disclosed accurate particulars of income and has separately
initiated penalty proceedings u/s 271 (1)(c)
6\. That on the facts and circumstances of the case and in law the AO/DRP has
erred in charging interest under section 234B and 234C of the Act to the
Appellant."
3\. The assessee, M/s Godaddy.com LLC has filed a return of income for A.Y.
2014-15 on 30.09.2014 declaring income of Rs. 41,19,81,166/- as royalty and
FTS for web hosting services/on demand sale and web designing/SSL
Certification services respectively. The case was selected for scrutiny.
Notice  3 ITA No. 7123/DEL/2017 u/s 143(2) of the Act was issued dated
01.09.2015 and served upon the assessee. Subsequently, notice under Section
142(1) issued on 12.04.2016 and served upon the assessee. The assessee through
CAs attended the proceedings and filed various details which were examined by
the Assessing Officer. Thus, the draft Assessment order was passed on
14.12.2016 against which the objections were filed by the Assessee before the
DRP. The DRP vide directions dated 22.09.2017 directed the Assessing Officer
to complete the assessment as per the directions given therein. The Assessing
Officer vide order dated 26.10.2017 held that the payment for domain name
registration is for use of server of the assessee and hence amounts to royalty
as per Section 9(1)(vi) of the Income Tax Act, 1961 as well as Article
12(3)(a) of the India-US Tax Treaty. This view was also taken for earlier
Assessment Year 2013-14 by the Assessing Officer. Being aggrieved by the same
the Assessee filed appeal before us. During the hearing the Ld. DR pointed out
that for A.Y. 2013-14, the Tribunal vide order dated 03.04.2018 held this
issue against the assessee being ITA No. 1878/Del/2017.
4\. The Ld. AR put up his written submission and the same are as under:-
> Background
> 1\. The Appellant, a Delaware Limited Liability Company, (located in
> Arizona, USA), is the world's largest ICANN (Internet Corporation for
> Assigned Names and Numbers) accredited domain name registrar. During the
> captioned year, the Appellant earned revenues from the following services
> rendered to Indian customers [Refer Para 3.2 final assessment order at Page
> 81 of Appeal Set]:
                 Particulars             Amount (INR)             Offered      to    tax
                                                                  (INR)
                 Web          hosting    411,981,166              411,981,166
                 services/on-demand
                                               4                   ITA No. 7123/DEL/2017
          sale
          Web designing/SSL          437,761,396/-
          Certification Services
          Domain registration
    Meaning of domain name
> 2\. A website is a combination of files, images, text, music etc. As there
> are more than a billion websites on the internet, it is important for each
> website to have a unique identity which could be used to connect to that
> particular website. This identity of a website is its IP address (Internet
> Protocol address). Any person with internet access can type in the website's
> IP address that he wishes to browse on his device and he will land on that
> website. IP address is a series of numbers, which is unique to each website.
For instance, the IP address of the website of the Hon'ble Delhi High Court is
'164.100.60.183'.
3\. Obviously, it is not practical to remember each website's IP address. To
solve this problem, Domain Name System was introduced in the early 1980s.
Under this system, a website's IP address can be assigned a domain name, a
name which can consist of alphabets and numbers. Now, instead of typing the IP
address, a user can type the domain name which is assigned to that IP address
and reach the website. For instance, the domain name of the website of the
Hon'ble Delhi High Court is 'delhihighcourt.nic.in'.
Domain name registration process
4\. The internet began as a program called ARPANET in the early 1970s. As the
internet began to expand, a process evolved to establish a new organization
which would organize and co-ordinate a database of the domain names in
addition to performing other important functions in respect of internet.
Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers (ICANN) was established in
1998 as a 'not for profit organization' and selected to perform  5 ITA No.
7123/DEL/2017 this role.
5\. With respect to domain name registration, ICANN formulates policies and
inter-aiia helps in coordinating and supporting the registration and
maintenance of domain names.
6\. For this purpose, ICANN enters into agreements with 'Registries', whose
function is to keep the master database of all the registered domain names.
ICANN has also accredited around 2500 companies to be 'Registrars' (the
Appellant is one of them). Their function is to register the domain names of
the customers, i.e. the 'Registrants' and facilitate the entire domain name
registration process.
7\. In a typical domain name registration, a 'Registrant' (i.e. the customer),
desirous of registering a domain name, approaches the 'Registrar' (the
Appellant). The 'Registrar' then asks the 'Registry' whether the proposed
domain name is available. The 'Registry' checks its database and informs the
'Registrar' accordingly. If the domain name is available, i.e., it is not
registered in the name of anyone else, the 'Registrant' can pay a fees and get
the name registered with the help of the 'Registrar'. In order to keep the
domain name, the 'Registrant' has to pay a periodical fee to the 'Registrar'
i. e. the fee for domain name registration.
Assessment History - AY 2013-14
8\. Assessing Officer ("AO") while passing the assessment order for AY 2013-
14 held that the payment for domain name registration is for use of server of
the Appellant and hence amounts to royalty as per section 9(l)(vi) of the
Income-tax Act, 1961 ("Act") as well as Article 12(3)(a) of the India-US tax
treaty. [Refer Para 3 of the assessment order at Page 134 of the Paper Book]
9\. Hon'ble Bench vide order dated April 13, 2018 held that the domain  6 ITA
No. 7123/DEL/2017 names were similar to trademarks and the services provided
by the Appellant were in connection with the use of the trademarks and the
income therefrom constitutes 'royalty' within the meaning of clause (vi) read
with clause (iii) of constitutes 'royalty' within the meaning of clause (vi)
read with clause (iii) of Explanation 2 to section 9(1) of the Act. [Refer
Para 12 of the ITAT order at Page 208 of the Paper Book]
10\. Hon'ble ITAT while passing order for AY 2013-14 has not appreciated an
important fact that the owner of domain name is the ultimate customer and not
the Appellant. Consequently, clause (iii) of Explanation 2 to section 9(l)(vi)
of the Act will not apply since the Appellant wasn't competent to grant the
right to use in the said property which was owned by the ultimate customers.
Hence, clause (vi) of Explanation 2 to section 9(l)(vi) of the Act will not
apply.
11\. The Appellant is in the process of filing an appeal before the Hon'ble
Delhi High Court again the said order.
Assessing Officer's Contentions for the AY 2014-15
1\. The AO passed the assessment order alleging that income from domain name
registration amounting to INR 437,761,396 should be charged to tax as royalty
as per the provisions of section 9(l)(vi) of the Act. [Refer Para 6.5 of the
final assessment order at Page 95 of Appeal Set]. The contentions of the AO
while passing the order for captioned AY is similar to AY 2013-14.
2\. The Ld. AO/DRP have linked web hosting services with domain name
registration services.
3\. The AO while passing the order has alleged that the payment for domain
name registration is for use of server of the Appellant and hence amounts to
royalty. Relevant extracts of the AO's order at Page 94 of the Appeal Set are
as below:
7 ITA No. 7123/DEL/2017
Quote "Domain registration partakes the character of web hosting charges since
without domain registration being in place, web hosting is not possible. As
domain registration charges have been essentially charged for granting right
to use the servers of the assessee, domain registration being the precondition
to web hosting etc and the same being highly technical process and because of
its inherent quality, the same squarely falls under the definition of royalty
under the provisions of the Act and Double Taxation Avoidance Agreement."
Unquote
4\. The AO also alleged that web hosting services provided/ rendered by the
Appellant qualify as fee for technical services ("FTS") as per Article
12(4)(a) of the India-USA tax treaty as well as under section 9(l)(vii) of the
Act. of income as royalty u/s 9(l)(vi) of the Act.[Refer Page 85 of the Appeal
Set]
5\. The Appellant filed an appeal before Dispute Resolution Panel ("DRP")
which upheld the order of the AO. The AO framed final assessment order dated
26 October, 2017 maintaining the aforesaid position.
6\. Being aggrieved by the final assessment order passed by Ld. AO, the
Appellant filed an appeal before Hon'ble ITAT.
Appellant's contentions with respect to taxability of domain name registration
services
1\. At the outset the Appellant wishes to submit that facts involved in AY
2013-14 are similar to the AY 2014-15 (i.e. the present AY).
2\. The AO while passing orders for both AYs 2013-14 (prior year) and 2014- 15
(year in appeal) has assessed income from domain name registration services as
'royalty' under section 9(l)(vi) of the Act by holding that the income was
received by the Appellant on account of granting to the  8 ITA No.
7123/DEL/2017 customers, the right to use its server and thus is in the nature
of right to use industrial, commercial or scientific equipment.
3\. The Hon'ble Bench while passing its order for AY 2013-14 held that the
domain names were similar to trademarks. The services provided by the
Appellant were in connection with the use of the trademarks and the income
therefrom constitutes 'royalty' within the meaning of clause (vi) read with
clause (iii) of Explanation 2 to section 9(1) of the Act.
4\. It is relevant to note that the Hon'ble Bench while passing its order for
AY 2013-14 considered the order and findings of the AO. However, the Bench has
upheld that the income is taxable as royalty by holding that the same is in
connection with the use of trademark and not on account of the fact that it is
for the granting to the customers, the right to use server (as contented by
the AO). Accordingly, the contention of the AO, that income from domain name
registration service is for granting a right to use server, no longer holds
good.
5\. The Appellant in the foregoing paragraphs has mentioned its contentions
against the findings and decision of the Hon'ble ITAT for AY 2013-14 since the
facts involved in the AY 2014-15 are similar to the facts for AY 2013-14.
Contentions with respect to the order passed bv Hon'ble ITAT for AY 2013-14
6\. The Hon'ble ITAT has held that the domain name registration services were
"services rendered in respect of domain name" and the charges for such
services were royalty within the meaning of clause (vi) read with clause (iii)
of Explanation 2 to section 9(1) of the Act.
7\. It may be clarified that the Registrant or Customer is the owner of domain
name. The Appellant is neither the owner, nor does it have the right to use
the domain names, which are registered by the customers. The Appellant is
authorized by the international regulatory body-ICANN only to take domain  9
ITA No. 7123/DEL/2017 name requests from customers, forward it to the Registry
Operators, and upon its acceptance by such registry operators, facilitate the
registration of such domain names. Further, the fact that a domain name is
owned by the Registrants (i.e. the customers) is also recognized by Hon'ble
Supreme Court in case of Satyam Infoway (2004) (2 SCR 465) and Hon'ble Bombay
High Court in the case of Rediff Communications (AIR 2000 bnombay 27) (i.e.
the decisions relied upon by the Hon'ble Bench). The same have been summarized
in paras below.
8\. It is submitted that without the ownership of an Intellectual Property
right ("IPR) like trademark, there cannot be any licensing and there cannot be
any royalty. Para 8.1 of the OECD's commentary on 'Model Tax Convention on
Income and on Capital 2014' provides: "The definition does not, however, apply
to payments that, whilst based on the number of times a right belonging to
someone is used, are made to someone else who does not himself own the right
or the right to use it." The Hon'ble Calcutta High Court has also given a
similar finding in the case of CIT vs. Davy Ashmore India Ltd. (1991)(190 ITR
626).
9\. The Hon'ble AAR in the case of Cushman & Wakefield (S) Pte. Ltd. (305 ITR
208)(2008)(AAR) held: 'When the above definition of trademark is placed
against the definition of royalty arising out of the use of 'trademark', as
contained in clauses of Explanation 2 to section 9(l)(vi) of the Act, it
emerges that the recipient of the consideration, should be either the owner of
the 'trademark' or registered holder of the 'trademark'. There should also
exist a connection in course of trade between the payer and the recipient.'
10\. The domain names requested by the customers (if not already registered)
are not owned by anyone for that matter, they simply do not exist. It is the
customer who becomes the owner of such domain names upon registration, and can
license it to a third party if it so desires. It is perhaps this subsequent
licensing by a registered owner of a domain name which  10 ITA No.
7123/DEL/2017 could be examined for royalty characterization.
11\. The Hon'ble Bench while passing its order relied on the judgment of the
Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Satyam Infoway Ltd. v. Siffynet Solutions
Pvt. Ltd. (2004)(2 SCR 465), Hon'ble Delhi High Court in the case of Tata Sons
Ltd. v. Mr. Manu Kishori & Ors. 90(2001) DLT 659 and Hon'ble Mumbai High court
in the case of Rediff Communications Ltd. Vs. Cyberbooth (AIR 2000 Bombay 27).
The findings in the said decisions are summarized below:
• In the decision of Satyam Infoway Ltd. v. Siffynet Solutions Pvt. Ltd.
(supra), the Plaintiff, Satyam Infoway Ltd. had registered a domain names with
the word 'Sify' with ICANN in the year 1999. Subsequently, in the year 2001,
the Respondent, Siffynet Solutions Pvt. Ltd. registered domain names with the
word 'Siffy' with ICANN. The Plaintiff alleged that the Respondent was
'passing off' its services as those belonging to the Petitioner by using a
deceptively similar word as part of its domain name. The decision was only in
the context of granting a trade mark protection to a domain name in light of
fraudulently 'passing off' of domain names.
• Similarly, in the case of Tata Sons Ltd. (supra), it was held that the
Respondent's use of domain names was violative of the Plaintiff's trademark
and that internet sites have also to be recognized and accepted and given
protection from passing off.
• In the case of Rediff Communications Ltd. (supra) as well, the user of the
domain name "www.radiff.com" was injuncted as it was held deceptively similar
to the plaintiff's website www.rediff.com. It was held that domain name is
entitled to protection equal to a trade mark.
12\. In fact, the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Satvam Infowav (supra)
has observed that it is the registrant (i.e. customer! which owns the domain
name and can protect the same against use by a subsequent  11 ITA No.
7123/DEL/2017 registrant. The said decision accordingly is in favour of the
Appellant's contention. Relevant extracts mentioned below:
" Therefore, the domain name not only serves as an address for internet
communication but also identifies the specific internet site. In the
commercial field, each domain name owner provides information/services which
are associated with such domain name "
"The outcome of consultation between ICANN and WIPO has resulted in the
setting up not only of a system of registration of domain names with
accredited Registrars but also the revolution of the Uniform Domain Name
Disputes Resolution Policy (UDNDR Policy) by ICANN on 24th October 1999. As
far as registration is concerned, it is provided on a first come first serve
basis."
While registration with such Registrars may not have the same consequences as
registration under the Trademark Act, 1999 nevertheless it at least evidences
recognised user of a mark. Besides the UDNDR Policy is instructive as to the
kind of rights which a domain name owner may have upon registration with ICANN
accredited Registrars. In Rule 2 of the Policy, prior to application for
registration of a domain name, the applicant is required to determine whether
the domain name for which registration is sought "infringes or violates
someone else's rights ...........
These rules indicate that the disputes may be broadly categorised as : (a)
disputes between trademark owners and domain name owners and (b) between
domain name owners inter se. What is important for the purposes of the present
appeal is the protection given to intellectual property in domain names. A
prior registrant can protect its domain name against subsequent registrants.
Confusing similarity in domain names may be a ground for complaint and
similarity is to be decided on the possibility of deception  12 ITA No.
7123/DEL/2017 amongst potential customers. The defences available to a
compliant are also substantially similar to those available to an action for
passing off under trademark law."
13\. Similarly, Bombay High court in the case of Rediff Communications Ltd.
(supra) recognized the fact that the registrant is the owner of domain name
and domain name registrars merely performs the function of registering a
domain name. The domain name registrar does not determine the legality of
domain names. Relevant extracts reproduced:
"Internet Domain names are similar to telephone number mnemonics, but they are
of greater importance, since there is no satisfactory Internet equivalent to a
telephone company white pages or directory assistance, and Domain names may be
a valuable corporate asset, as it facilitates communication with a customer
base. The uniqueness of Internet addresses is ensured by the registration
services of the Internet Network Information Center ("Internic"), a
collaborative project established by the National Science Foundation. I may
hasten to add that it is the NSI which provides registration services of
domain names under the name Internet Network Information Center ("Internic").
NSI registers names free on the basis of "first come first served". NSI does
not determine the legality of the domain name registration, or otherwise
evaluate whether that registration or use may infringe upon the rights of a
third party. Anyone can apply for the registration of a domain name and if the
name is available, it is allotted to the applicant. "
14\. It is also submitted that once a customer is registered with a particular
Registrar, the customer has the option of switching to any other Registrar for
the very same domain name at its will. If the Registrar, in fact, had the
right to license and assign a domain name, it would have been at the
discretion of the Registrar to transfer the domain name to any customer and
not at the discretion of the customer to discontinue the services of the
Registrar which had registered its domain name to begin with. Customers are
13 ITA No. 7123/DEL/2017 allowed to and as a matter of fact do shift from one
Registrar to another. It could not be said that the right to use an IPR is
given by one entity in one year and by another entity in another year.
Reference may be drawn to Clause 4 of Domain Name Registration Agreement
between the Appellant and the customers. (Refer Clause 4 of the Domain Name
Registration Agreement at Page 58 of the Paper Book)
15\. Appellant wishes to highlight Clause 3.5 of the Registrar Accreditation
Agreement between Godaddy and ICANN which indicates that the Appellant does
not any right in the domain names "Rights in Data. Registrar disclaims all
rights to exclusive ownership or use of the data elements listed in
Subsections 3.2.1.1 through 3.2.1.3 for all Registered Names submitted by
Registrar to the Registry Database for, or sponsored by Registrar in, each
gTLD for which it is Accredited."
16\. It is submitted that the services provided by the Appellant are similar
to services provided by professionals who help in registering a company's name
with the Registrar of Companies (ROC).
17\. Simply providing services in connection with a trade mark is not
sufficient to invite the application of clause (vi). The said clause shall
apply when the services are in connection with "the activities" referred to in
that section. It may be noted that the activity referred to in clause (iii) is
'the use of any patent, invention, model, design, secret formula or process or
trade mark or similar property;'. Accordingly, an entity which licenses its
trade mark and also provides services in connection with the activity of
licensing will be covered in clause (iii) for the first set of services and in
clause (vi) for the second set of services.
18\. If simply providing services in connection with trademark, patent etc. is
taken to be covered within the definition of 'royalty' (without there
additionally being the grant of a license thereto), the consequences would be
14 ITA No. 7123/DEL/2017 absurd. In such a situation, even an advocate
drafting an Intellectual Property Right ("IPR") transfer agreement will be
receiving 'royalty' for his services as they will be in connection with the
IPR.
19\. For the service fee to be characterized as royalty, the entity which
provides services in connection with the right to use an IPR must also be in a
position to grant the license to use such IPR. Clause (vi) can never apply
independently.
In view of facts and law discussed above, the Appellant, most respectfully
wishes to submit that income from domain name registration services is not in
the nature of royalty and is not taxable under the provisions of Income-tax
Act"
5\. The Ld. DR submitted as under:-
> 1\. Either the client enters into a WHA with Appellant or gives the details
> of domain settings of its web host. In case of GoDaddy customer who has
> already set up its customer profile, designating the its domain name
> settings for new domain name registration, it need not complete this step
> again. (Cl. 10 of DRA, p.43 of PB)
> 2\. Appellant is the "Default Web Host" (Cl. 10 of DRA, p.44 of PB)
> 3\. In case the details of domain settings of the web host is not given, the
> domainname is directed to a "Parked Page" and the client can't customise it
> as per its needs and can't modify the content displayed in it.(CI.10 of DRA,
> p.44 of PB)
> 4\. The content, advertisement and revenue from the websites in the 'parked
> page' are provided by the appellant who uses them to generate revenue. (Cl.
10 of DRA, p.44 of PB) Ouestion-1  15 ITA No. 7123/DEL/2017 Whether DNR and
WHA are inter-related or independent processes:
Claim of the Appellant That the transactions described in stages 5 & 8 (i.e.
DRA & WHA) are processes independent of each other and the taxabilty of the
amounts received by it in lieu of these have to examined separately.
Claim of Revenue The transactions are NOT processes independent of each other
but rather are directly associated or inextricably connected to each other and
need to be treated as parts of one single and integrated process. DNR can't be
completed and Registered Domain names can't be customised and used for the
benefit of the client without entering WHA (irrespective of whether with the
appellant or any other agency) and specifying the details of domain name
settings and name servers. (Ref. Cl. 10 of DRA, p.43-44 of PB as discussed
above) Ouestion-2 Taxability of the receipts in lieu of DNR and WHA:
Claim of the Appellant > Amount received for web-hosting (WHA) is taxable in
India and offered to tax as Royalty;
> Amount received for domain name registration (DNR) is not taxable in India
> because-
o It is not in the nature of FTS as it doesn't involve any human intervention
(Ref. submissions before AO, DRP & ITAT in Pages- 62 of Paperbook);
16 ITA No. 7123/DEL/2017
o It is not in the nature of Royalty as the appellant does not own copyright
in the domain names(Ref. submissions before AO, DRP & ITAT in Pages- 62 of
Paper book);
o No activity is carried out in India and all the services are rendered
outside India. Hence, no part of the payment for such services would be deemed
to accrue in India even if the agreement gives rise to a business connection.
Claim of Revenue A. Domain Name Registration-
> Amount received for DNR is a part of a single and composite process and
> can't be treated on a separate footing from that of Web Hosting.
> The DRA gives rise to a business connection - a fact accepted by the
> appellant.
> Amount received for domain name registration (DNR) is taxable in India as
> Royalty because-'Domain Name' is an intangible asset in the nature of
> 'trademark' as held in the following decisions:
Satyam Infoway Ltd. Vs. Siffynet Solutions Pvt. Ltd. (SC) 2004 supp (2) SCR
465 In that case, the principal question raised was whether internet domain
names are subject to the legal norms applicable to other intellectual
properties such as trademarks. It was contended by the respondents before
Hon'ble SC "that registration of a domain namewith ICANNdid not confer any
intellectual property right: that it is a contract with a registration
authority allowing communication to reach owners computervia internet links
channelled through the registration authority's server and that it is akin to
registration of a  17 ITA No. 7123/DEL/2017 company name which is a unique
identifier o f a company but o f itself confers no intellectual property
rights."
The Hon'ble SC in its order observed that "The original role of a domain name
was no doubt to provide an address for computers on the internet. But the
internet has development from a mere means of communication to a mode of
carrying on commercial activity. With the increase of commercial activity on
the internet, a domain name is also used as business identifier. Therefore,
the domain name not only serves as an address for internet communication but
also identifies the specific internet site. In the commercial field, each
domain name owner provides information/services which are associated with such
domain name. Thus domain name may pertain to provision of services within the
meaning of Section 2(zl A domain name is easy to remember and use, and is
chosen as an instrument of commercial enterprise not only because it
facilitates the ability of consumers to navigate the Internet to find websites
they are looking for, but also at the same time, services to identify and
distinguish the business itself, or its goods or services, and to specify its
corresponding online internet location. Consequently a domain name as an
address must, of necessary, be peculiar and unique and where a domain name is
used in connection with a business, the value of maintaining an exclusive
identity becomes critical. "As more and more commercial enterprises trade or
advertise their presence on the web, domain names have become more and more
valuable and the potential for dispute is high. Whereas large number of
trademarks containing the same name can comfortably co-exist because they are
associated with different products, belong to business in different
jurisdictions etc.. the distinctive nature of the domain name providing global
exclusivity is much sought after. The fact that many consumers searching of a
particular site are likely, in the first place, to try and guess its domain
name has further enhanced this value"
18 ITA No. 7123/DEL/2017
The Hon'ble SC, after recapitulating the provisions of the Indian Trade Marks
Actl999 (sections 2(l)(m) to 2(zb)), rejected the submissions of the
respondents by concluding that a domain name is a sign which can have a
distinguishing function indicating the source of a good or of a service and
that it thus has the usual features of a trademark. After putting domain names
in the same category as trademarks, the Court did not focus on domain names
anymore, since there is no use of the phrases domain name' or 'domain names'.
It then shifts its focus to passing-off actions in trademark law and held
that"... although the operation oh the Trademarks Act. 1999 itself is not
extra territorial and may not allow for adequate protection of domain names,
this does not mean that domain names are not to be legally protected to the
extent possible under the laws relating to passing off."
In that case permanent injunction was sought against the defendants from using
the trademark/domain name www.tatainfotech.in or any other mark/domain name
which is identical with or deceptively similar to the plaintiffs trademarks
TATA/TATA INFOTECH. The Hon'ble Delhi High Court held that "... domain names
or internet sites are entitled to protection as a trademark because they are
more than a address. The rendering of internet servicesis also entitled
toprotection in the samewav as goods and services are, and trade mark law
applies to activities on internet."
The Hon'ble High Court also reaffirmed the decision of the Hon'ble Mumbai High
Court in the case of Rediff Communication Ltd. Vs Cyberbooth (2000) wherein it
was held that ".. the internet domain names are of importance and can be a
valuable corporate asset and such domain name is more than an internet address
and is entitles to protection equal to a trademark."
Gary Kremen vs. Stephen Michael Cohen et al. US Court of Appeal. Ninth Circuit
(2003) 337 F.3d 1024  19 ITA No. 7123/DEL/2017 Perhaps the best depiction of
the nature of the domain names and the right they enshrine upon the registrant
has been made in the above case. In this case, the question before the Hon'ble
Court was whether registrants have property rights in their domain names. The
Hon'ble Court reversed the judgement of the District Court by applying a
three- part test to determine whether a property right exists i.e. "First,
there must be an interest capable of precise definition: second, it must be
capable of exclussive possession or control: and third, the putative owner
must have established a legitimate claim to exclusivity." It was concluded by
the Hon'ble Court that "Domain names satisfy each criterion. Like a share of a
corporate stock or a plot o f land, a domain name is a well-defined interest.
Someone who registers a domain name decides where on the internet those who
invoke that particular name- whether bv typing it into their web browsers, by
following a hyperlink, or by other means - are sent. Ownership is exclusive in
that the registrant alone makes that decision. Moreover, like other forms of
property, domain names are valued, bought and sold, often for millions of
dollars....Finally, registrants have a legitimate claim to exclusivity.
Registering a domain name is like staking a claim to a plot of land at the
title office. It informs others that the domain name is the registrant's and
no one elses's."
Makemytrip (India) Pvt. Ltd. Vs Dv. CIT (2012)(lTA Nos. 3961/Del/2009 & 4087
/Del/2009) In this case, the issue in question was whether website development
cost should be treated as "software" or as "intangible asset" for the purpose
of capitalization and allowance of depreciation. The Hon'ble ITAT, Delhi,
dismissed the appeal affirming the decision of CIT(A) that it is in the nature
of an "intangible asset."
> That in lieu of receipt of Domain Registration charges, the Registrar
> appellant has permitted the Registrantto use all or some rights in the said
> asset;
20 ITA No. 7123/DEL/2017
> The claim of the appellant that it is only a channel between the Registrant
> and the Registree can't be accepted on account of the following -
a. That the appelant has been accredated by ICAAN to register domain names and
as per the Accredition Agreement between the appellant and ICAAN, the rights
to register, assign and transfer and managespecific domain names lies
exclussively with the appellant.
b. The Appellant enjoys absolute and exclussive rights to assign domain names
under specific domain extensions. Neither ICAAN nor Registry Operator can
allocate, assign, insert, transfer, deactivate the domain names. The ICAAN
owns domain extensions but has granted the registrar all the rights and risks
relating to theassignment, allocation, transfer and management of specific
domain names within such extensions to various registrars like the
appellant.(Clause 2& 3 of Accreditation agreement) c. What the Appellant
Registrar pays to ICAAN is the Accreditation Fee to use and enjoy an asset in
the form of 'domain names'. The Accreditation agreement transfers a bundle of
rights to the Registrar that include-
i. Right to own domain names for the purpose of conducting its Registrar
services. (Cl. 3.7.7 of Accreditation Agreement, p.93 of PB) ii. Right to
allocate, register new domain names and transfer existing ones and insert such
names into the registry database (Cl.2.1 of Accreditation Agreement, p.84 of
PB);
iii. Right to cancel/de-activate the domain registrations/names in certain
given situations like false declaration by the client, Non-renewal etc. (Cl.
3.7.5 of Accreditation Agreement, p.91 of PB & Cl.2 & 10 of Domain
Registration Agreement) iv. Right to Renew domain registration without
explicit consent of the registrant.(Cl. 3.7.5.2 of Accreditation Agreement,
p.91 & Cl.3(B) of Domain  21 ITA No. 7123/DEL/2017 Registration Agreement, P.
36 of PB) v. Right to suspend and put the registered domain names in "Parked
Site" under certain given situations ( Cl.3(B) & 10 of Domain Registration
Agreement, P. 37 & 43 of PB);
    vi.     Right to auction and transfer domain names;
    vii.    Right to exploit the registered domain name to generate revenue in case
of default by domain owner, before the domain returns to ICAAN, right to
retain the same for a limited time in a parking site and use it to earn
income.(Cl. 10 of Domain Registration Agreement, P. 44 of PB) viii. Right of
refusal/exclusion of registrant from accessing the registered domain and
customising it or advertising there in in case the domain has been parked.
(Cl. 10 of Domain Registration Agreement, P. 44 of PB) ix. Right to issue
Certified Domain seal which is a trademark and is protected by copyright,
trademark and other intellectual property laws.
> The appellant Registrar thus, has right to own, assign, allocate, transfer,
> cancel, deactivate, suspend, auction, renew and exploit domain names under
> accreditation agreement with ICANN.
> The appellant Registrar in turn, transfers and allocates all or part of such
> assigned rights to the Registrant to enable it to use such rights in respect
> of such property i.e. domain names.
> Domain Registration charges were made to the Appellant inside India:
> Accordingly, and in view of the above, the amount received by the appelant
> towards Domain Registration chrges are in the nature of 'Royalty" within the
> meaning of section 9(l)(vi) and should be taxed accordingly.
22 ITA No. 7123/DEL/2017
> Provisions of DTAA not aplicable as the appellant has requested not to be
> considered under the provisions of India-USA DTAA.
> Since the nature of payment is in the nature of "Royalty" which was
> paid/received in India and there is business connection, the enire amount
> received towards Domain Registration Chrges should be treated as accrued or
> arises or as deemed to accrue or arise in India.
> Even otherwise, the appellant does not challenge the fact that income has
> already been 'received' within the meaning of section 5(2)(a) of the Act.
> Moreover, the claim of the appellant that there is no human intervention
> involved is also not acceptable because of the following -
a. In case of manual renewal, registrant may renew the domain by calling the
customer care. (Cl. 3(B)(iii) of Domain Registration Agreement] b. When the
domain name is in non-renewal status, the client can renew the domain name
only by calling GoDaddy and requesting that the domain name be renewed. It
cannot renew the domain name through your Account Manager. (Cl. 3(B)(iii) of
Domain Registration Agreement) c. Registrar shall either verify the applicable
contact information manually or suspend the registration, until such time as
Registrar has verified the applicable contact information. If Registrar does
not receive an affirmative response from the Account Holder), Registrar shall
verify the applicable contact information manually, but is not required to
suspend any registration Accredation Agreement, P.120 of PB) d. Registrar
shall verify the telephone number of the registered name holder by either
calling or sending an SMS (Accredation Agreement, P.119 of PB) B. Web Hosting
-
23 ITA No. 7123/DEL/2017
> > Amount received for web-hosting (WHA) is a part of a single and composite
> processand can't be treated on a separate footing from that of Domain Name
> Registration.
> The appellant has already offered and need to be taxed Royalty/FTS;"
6\. We have heard both the parties and perused the material available on
record. It is pertinent to note that this issue is already decided in favour
of Revenue in assessee's own appeal and the contentions taken herein by the
Ld. AR that the issue of ownership with whom it is applicable has also been
dealt with in the said order The Tribunal held as under:-
> "8. We have carefully considered the arguments of both the sides and perused
> relevant material placed before us. The limited question before us is
> whether the domain registration fee received by the assessee can be termed
> as royalty. At the outset, we clarify that the appellant himself has
> mentioned that since it is not a tax resident of USA, therefore, it is not
> claiming any benefit under the provisions of India-US tax treaty.
> Accordingly, we have to examine within the meaning of Income-tax Act, more
> particularly, Section 9(1)(vi) to examine whether the receipt by the
> assessee on account of domain registration fee can be termed as royalty.
> Section 9(1)(vi) of the Income-tax Act reads as under :-
> "9. (1) The following incomes shall be deemed to accrue or arise in India :-
> (vi) income by way of royalty payable by -
> (a) the Government; or
> (b) a person who is a resident, except where the royalty is payable in
> respect of any right, property or information used or services utilised for
> the purposes of a business or profession carried on by such person outside
> India or for the purposes of making or earning any income from any source
> outside India; or  24 ITA No. 7123/DEL/2017
> (c) a person who is a non-resident, where the royalty is payable in respect
> of any right, property or information used or services utilised for the
> purposes of a business or profession carried on by such person in India or
> for the purposes of making or earning any income from any source in India:
> Provided that nothing contained in this clause shall apply in relation to so
> much of the income by way of royalty as consists of lump sum consideration
> for the transfer outside India of, or the imparting of information outside
> India in respect of, any data, documentation, drawing or specification
> relating to any patent, invention, model, design, secret formula or process
> or trade mark or similar property, if such income is payable in pursuance of
> an agreement made before the 1st day of April, 1976, and the agreement is
> approved by the Central Government :
[Provided further that nothing contained in this clause shall apply in
relation to so much of the income by way of royalty as consists of lump sum
payment made by a person, who is a resident, for the transfer of all or any
rights (including the granting of a licence) in respect of computer software
supplied by a non-resident manufacturer along with a computer or computer-
based equipment under any scheme approved under the Policy on Computer
Software Export, Software Development and Training, 1986 of the Government of
India.]."
9\. Explanation 2 after the sub-section defines the word "royalty", which
reads as under :-
"Explanation 2. - For the purposes of this clause, "royalty" means
consideration (including any lump sum consideration but excluding any
consideration which would be the income of the recipient chargeable under the
head "Capital gains") for -
(i) the transfer of all or any rights (including the granting of a licence) in
respect of a patent, invention, model, design, secret formula or process or
trade mark or similar property;
25 ITA No. 7123/DEL/2017
(ii) the imparting of any information concerning the working of, or the use
of, a patent, invention, model, design, secret formula or process or trade
mark or similar property;
(iii) the use of any patent, invention, model, design, secret formula or
process or trade mark or similar property;
(iv) the imparting of any information concerning technical, industrial,
commercial or scientific knowledge, experience or skill;
[(iva) the use or right to use any industrial, commercial or scientific
equipment but not including the amounts referred to in section 44BB;]
(v) the transfer of all or any rights (including the granting of a licence) in
respect of any copyright, literary, artistic or scientific work including
films or video tapes for use in connection with television or tapes for use in
connection with radio broadcasting, but not including consideration for the
sale, distribution or exhibition of cinematographic films; or
(vi) the rendering of any services in connection with the activities referred
to in sub-clauses (i) to [(iv), (iva) and] (v)."
10\. The contention of the Revenue is that the domain name is an intangible
asset which is similar to trademark. The assessee is rendering services in
connection with such domain name registration and therefore, the charges
received by the assessee clearly fall within the definition of royalty as
provided in Section 9(1)(vi) of the Income-tax Act. We find that Hon'ble Apex
Court has considered the similar aspect in the case of Satyam Infoway Ltd.
(supra). The question before Hon'ble Apex Court was whether internet domain
names are subject to the legal norms applicable to other intellectual
properties such as trademarks. Hon'ble Apex Court decided the issue in favour
of the assessee. The relevant observation of their Lordships reads as under :-
"The use of the same or similar domain name may lead to a diversion of users
which could result from such users, mistakenly accessing one domain name
instead of another. This may occur in e-commerce with its rapid progress and
instant (and theoretically limitless) accessibility to users and potential
customers and particularly so in areas of specific  26 ITA No. 7123/DEL/2017
overlap. Ordinary consumers/users seeking to locate the functions available
under one domain name may be confused if they accidentally arrived at a
different but similar web site which offers no such services. Such users could
well conclude that the first domain name owner had mis- represented its goods
or services through its promotional activities and the first domain owner
would thereby lose their custom. It is apparent therefore that a domain name
may have all the characteristics of a trademark and could found an action for
passing off.
Over the last few years the increased user of the internet has led to a
proliferation of disputes resulting in litigation before different High Courts
in this country. The Courts have consistently applied the law relating to
passing off to domain name disputes. Some disputes were between the trademark
holders and domain name owners. Some were between domain name owners
themselves. These decisions namely Rediff Communication Ltd. v. Cyberbooth and
Anr., AIR (2000) Bombay 27, Yahoo Inc. v. Akash Arora, (1999) PTC 19 201, Dr.
Reddy's Laboratories Ltd. v. Manu Kosuri, (2001) PTC 859 (Del.), Tata Sons
Ltd. v. Manu Kosuri, (2001) PTC 432 (Del.), Acqua Minerals Ltd. v. Pramod
Borse & Anr., (2001) PTC 619 (Del.), and Info Edge (India) Pvt.Ltd. & Anr. V.
Shailesh Gupta & Anr., (2002) 24 PTC 355 (Del.) correctly reflect the law as
enunciated by us. No decision of any court in India has been shown to us which
has taken a contrary view. The question formulated at the outset is therefore
answered in the affirmative and the submission of the respondent is rejected."
(emphasis by underlining supplied by us)
11\. That Hon'ble Jurisdictional High Court in the case of Tata Sons Limited
(supra) has also examined the identical question and held as under :-
"6. In Yahoo Inc! Vs Akash Arora 1999 PTC 201 while granting an injunction
restraining the defendants from using Yahoo either as a part of its domain
name or as a trademark, learned Single Judge of this Court applied the law
relating to trademark to a dispute regarding Internet. It was further held
that considering the vast import of Internet and its user, several Internet
users are not sophisticated enough to distinguish between the domain names of
the parties. It was also held that with the ease of access from all corners of
the world, Courts should take a strict view of copying as the potentiality of
the harm is far greater because of the easy  27 ITA No. 7123/DEL/2017 access
and reach by any one from every corner of the globe. The Court also held after
analyzing Section 27 and Section 29 of the Trade & Merchandise Marks Act, that
passing off action can be maintained in respect of services as well as goods.
7\. In British Telecom Plc. Vs. One in a Million 1999 FSR 1 the Court held
that in the case of a registration of domain names of third party trademarks
of well-known names, there was jurisdiction to grant injunctive relief when
the defendant was equipped with or was intending to equip another with an
instrument of fraud. It was also held that a name which would by reason of
similarly to the name of another, inherently lead to passing off, was such an
instrument. It was held that in case it would not inherently lead to passing
off but the Court concluded on the facts without regard to the defendant's
intention that the name was produced to enable passing off, was adapted to be
used for passing off and, if used, was likely to be used fraudulently, an
injunction would be appropriate.
8\. In Rediff Communications Ltd. Vs. Cyberbooth AIR 2000 Bombay 27 the user
of the Website "www.radiff.com" was injuncted as it was held deceptively
similar to the plaintiff's website "www.rediff.com". In the above decision,
the Court held that the Internet domain names are of importance and can be a
valuable corporate asset and such domain name is more than an Internet address
and is entitled to protection equal to a trade mark. It was held that with the
advancement and progress in technology the services rendered by an Internet
site have also to be recognized and accepted and are being given protection
from passing off.
9\. In view of the above decisions, I am satisfied that it is now settled law
that with the advent of modern technology particularly that relating to
cyberspace, domain names or Internet sites are entitled to protection as a
trade mark because they are more than a mere address. The rendering of
Internet services is also entitled to protection in the same way as goods and
services are, and trade mark law applies to activities on Internet."
(emphasis by underlining supplied by us)
12\. Learned counsel for the assessee has also relied upon the decision of
Hon'ble Jurisdictional High Court in the case of Asia Satellite
Telecommunications Co.Ltd. (supra). However, we find that the facts in that
case were altogether different. In the said case, the assessee company carried
on the business of private satellite communications and broadcasting  28 ITA
No. 7123/DEL/2017 facilities. During the relevant assessment year, it was the
lessee of a satellite, called Asia-Sat 1 and was the owner of a satellite,
called Asia Sat 2. Those satellites were launched by the assessee and were
placed in a geostationary orbit in the orbital slots. Those satellites neither
used the Indian orbital slots nor were they positioned over Indian airspace.
However, the footprint area (the area of earth's surface over which a signal
is relayed from satellite) of those satellites covered the territory of India.
The assessee entered into an agreement with TV channels, communication
companies or other companies who desired to utilize the transponder capacity
available on its satellite to relay their signals. The customers had their own
relaying facilities, which were not situated in India. From those facilities,
the signals were beamed into space where they were received by a transponder
located in the assessee's satellite. The role of the assessee in this cycle
was that of receiving the signals, amplifying them and after changing
frequency relaying them over the entire footprint area. For that service, the
TV channels made payments to the assessee. The question before the Hon'ble
High Court was whether such payments can be said to be royalty chargeable to
tax in India. Hon'ble High Court answered the question in the negative.
However, the facts in the assessee's case are clearly different. In the case
under appeal before us, the issue is whether the fees received by the assessee
for rendering services for domain registration can be said to be royalty.
Therefore, in our opinion, the above decision of Hon'ble Delhi High Court
relied upon by the learned counsel for the assessee would have no application.
The learned counsel has also relied upon the decision of Authority for Advance
Rulings in the case of Dell International Services (India) Private Limited
(supra). In that case also, the issue before the Authority for Advance Rulings
was whether the payment for providing communication through telecom bandwidth
can be termed as royalty within the meaning of Section 9(1)(vi) of the Income-
tax Act. Thus, the facts in the above case were also different than the facts
under appeal before us. On the other hand, the issue before Hon'ble Apex Court
in the case of Satyam Infoway Ltd. (supra), Hon'ble Jurisdictional High Court
in the case of Tata Sons Limited (supra) and Hon'ble Bombay High Court in the
case of Rediff Communications Ltd. - AIR 2000 Bombay 27 was whether the domain
names can be considered as intellectual properties such as trademark. Hon'ble
Apex Court in the case of Satyam Infoway Ltd. (supra) has held that the domain
name is a valuable commercial right and it has all the characteristics of a
trademark and accordingly, it was held that the domain names are subject to
legal norms applicable to trademark. Hon'ble Bombay High Court in the case of
Rediff Communications Ltd. (supra) held that domain names are of importance
and can be a valuable corporate asset  29 ITA No. 7123/DEL/2017 and such
domain name is more than an internet address and is entitled to protection
equal to a trademark. Hon'ble Jurisdictional High Court in the case of Tata
Sons Limited (supra) held that domain names are entitled to protection as a
trademark because they are more than an address. Respectfully following the
above decisions of Hon'ble Apex Court, Hon'ble Bombay High Court and Hon'ble
Jurisdictional High Court, we hold that the rendering of services for domain
registration is rendering of services in connection with the use of an
intangible property which is similar to trademark. Therefore, the charges
received by the assessee for services rendered in respect of domain name is
royalty within the meaning of Clause (vi) read with Clause (iii) of
Explanation 2 to Section 9(1) of Income-tax Act. In view of the above, we
uphold the orders of the lower authorities on this point and reject ground
No.2 of the assessee's appeal.
13\. Ground Nos.3 & 4 of the assessee's appeal, which read as under, were not
pressed by the assessee at the time of hearing :-
"3. That on the facts and circumstances of the case and in law, the AO/DRP has
erred in holding that the web hosting services provided/rendered by the
Appellant qualify as fees for included services as per Article 12(4)(a) of the
India-USA Tax Treaty as well as under Section 9(1)(vii) of the Act.
4\. That on the facts and circumstances of the case and in law, the AO/DRP has
erred in not appreciating that the Appellant has characterized income from web
hosting services as royalty and already offered the same to tax as per the
provisions of section 9(1)(vi) read with section 115A of the Act."
14\. At the time of hearing, the learned counsel stated that the assessee
itself has offered the income from web hosting services as royalty. The
Assessing Officer has assessed the same as fees for technical services which
is upheld by the DRP. He stated that since the rate of tax for royalty as well
as for FTS is the same, the assessee would not like to contest ground Nos.3 &
4 because so far actual tax liability is concerned, these grounds are only
academic. In view of the above, ground Nos.3 & 4 of the assessee's appeal are
rejected being not pressed.
30 ITA No. 7123/DEL/2017
15\. Ground No.5 is against initiation of penalty proceedings u/s 271(1)(c) of
the Act. This ground is premature at this stage and accordingly, rejected as
such.
16\. Ground No.6 relating to charging of interest u/s 234A, 234B and 234C is
admitted to be consequential and since no relief is allowed on any other point
in this appeal, accordingly, there would be no variation in the quantum of
interest. Thus, ground No.6 is also rejected.
17\. In the result, the appeal of the assessee is dismissed."
The Ld. AR during the course of the hearing submitted that the ITAT while
passing order for AY 2013-14 has not appreciated that the owner of domain name
is the ultimate customer and not the assessee and consequently, clause (iii)
of Explanation 2 to section 9(l)(vi) of the Act will not apply since the
assessee wasn't competent to grant the right to use in the said property which
was owned by the ultimate customers. Hence, clause (vi) of Explanation 2 to
section 9(l)(vi) of the Act will not apply as per the contentions of the Ld.
AR. But this aspect was also dealt by the Tribunal for A.Y. 2013-14. Thus,
this issue is decided by the Tribunal in the assessee's own case against the
assessee. Therefore, this appeal is dismissed.
7\. In result, appeal of the assessee is dismissed.
Order pronounced in the Open Court on 24th July, 2018.
         Sd/-                                                                Sd/-
    (R. K. PANDA)                                             (SUCHITRA KAMBLE)
    ACCOUNTANT MEMBER                                         JUDICIAL MEMBER
    Dated:          24/07/2018
    R. Naheed *
                                                 31                     ITA No. 7123/DEL/2017
    Copy forwarded to:
    1.                          Appellant
    2.                          Respondent
    3.                          CIT
    4.                          CIT(Appeals)
    5.                          DR: ITAT
                                                          ASSISTANT REGISTRAR
                                                              ITAT NEW DELHI
                    Date of dictation                                  19.07.2018
                    Date on which the typed draft is placed before     23.07.2018
                    the dictating Member
                    Date on which the typed draft is placed before
                    the Other Member
                    Date on which the approved draft comes to the
                    Sr. PS/PS
                    Date on which the fair order is placed before
                    the Dictating Member for pronouncement
                    Date on which the fair order comes back to the       24.07.2018
                    Sr. PS/PS
                    Date on which the final order is uploaded on         24.07.2018
                    the website of ITAT
                    Date on which the file goes to the Bench Clerk       24.07.2018
                    Date on which the file goes to the Head Clerk
                    The date on which the file goes to the Assistant
                    Registrar for signature on the order
                    Date of dispatch of the Order
     32   ITA No. 7123/DEL/2017
                                                              ITAT NEW DELHI
                    Date of dictation                                  19.07.2018
                    Date on which the typed draft is placed before     23.07.2018
                    the dictating Member
                    Date on which the typed draft is placed before
                    the Other Member
                    Date on which the approved draft comes to the
                    Sr. PS/PS
                    Date on which the fair order is placed before
                    the Dictating Member for pronouncement
                    Date on which the fair order comes back to the       24.07.2018
                    Sr. PS/PS
                    Date on which the final order is uploaded on         24.07.2018
                    the website of ITAT
                    Date on which the file goes to the Bench Clerk       24.07.2018
                    Date on which the file goes to the Head Clerk
                                      Prachi Bhtia, AR
                   Respondent by      Sh. G. K. Dhall, CIT DR
                       Date of Hearing             18.07.2018
                       Date of Pronouncement        24.07.2018
                                        ORDER
PER SUCHITRA KAMBLE, JM This appeal is filed by the assessee against the
Assessment Order dated 26.10.2017 passed by the DCIT, Circle-(1)(3)(1), New
Delhi for Assessment Year 2014-15.
2\. The grounds of appeal are as under:-
"Appeal against the order under section 143(3) read with Section 144C(13) of
the Income- tax Act, 1961 ("the Act") dated 26 October 2017 for the Assessment
Year  2 ITA No. 7123/DEL/2017 2014-15 passed by the Deputy Commissioner of
Income Tax, Circle 1(3)(1), Intl. Taxation, New Delhi ("AO") pursuant to the
directions of Dispute Resolution Panel-I ("DRP")
1\. That on the facts and in the circumstances of the case and in law, the
impugned order of assessment framed by the AO pursuant to the directions of
the DRP is erroneous and bad in law as well as in facts.
2\. That on the facts and in the circumstances of the case and in law, the
AO/DRP has wrongly alleged that receipts from domain name registration
amounting to INR 437,761,396 should be charged to tax as royalty as per the
                                                              ITAT NEW DELHI
                    Date of dictation                                  19.07.2018
                    Date on which the typed draft is placed before     23.07.2018
                    the dictating Member
                    Date on which the typed draft is placed before
                    the Other Member
                    Date on which the approved draft comes to the
                    Sr. PS/PS
                    Date on which the fair order is placed before
                    the Dictating Member for pronouncement
                    Date on which the fair order comes back to the       24.07.2018
                    Sr. PS/PS
                    Date on which the final order is uploaded on         24.07.2018
                    the website of ITAT
                    Date on which the file goes to the Bench Clerk       24.07.2018
                    Date on which the file goes to the Head Clerk
                                      Prachi Bhtia, AR
                   Respondent by      Sh. G. K. Dhall, CIT DR
                       Date of Hearing             18.07.2018
                       Date of Pronouncement        24.07.2018
                                        ORDER
PER SUCHITRA KAMBLE, JM This appeal is filed by the assessee against the
Assessment Order dated 26.10.2017 passed by the DCIT, Circle-(1)(3)(1), New
Delhi for Assessment Year 2014-15.
2\. The grounds of appeal are as under:-
"Appeal against the order under section 143(3) read with Section 144C(13) of
the Income- tax Act, 1961 ("the Act") dated 26 October 2017 for the Assessment
Year  2 ITA No. 7123/DEL/2017 2014-15 passed by the Deputy Commissioner of
Income Tax, Circle 1(3)(1), Intl. Taxation, New Delhi ("AO") pursuant to the
directions of Dispute Resolution Panel-I ("DRP")
1\. That on the facts and in the circumstances of the case and in law, the
impugned order of assessment framed by the AO pursuant to the directions of
the DRP is erroneous and bad in law as well as in facts.
2\. That on the facts and in the circumstances of the case and in law, the
AO/DRP has wrongly alleged that receipts from domain name registration
amounting to INR 437,761,396 should be charged to tax as royalty as per the
                                                              ITAT NEW DELHI
                    Date of dictation                                  19.07.2018
                    Date on which the typed draft is placed before     23.07.2018
                    the dictating Member
                    Date on which the typed draft is placed before
                    the Other Member
                    Date on which the approved draft comes to the
                    Sr. PS/PS
                    Date on which the fair order is placed before
                    the Dictating Member for pronouncement
                    Date on which the fair order comes back to the       24.07.2018
                    Sr. PS/PS
                    Date on which the final order is uploaded on         24.07.2018
                    the website of ITAT
                    Date on which the file goes to the Bench Clerk       24.07.2018
                    Date on which the file goes to the Head Clerk
                                      Prachi Bhtia, AR
                   Respondent by      Sh. G. K. Dhall, CIT DR
                       Date of Hearing             18.07.2018
                       Date of Pronouncement        24.07.2018
                                        ORDER
PER SUCHITRA KAMBLE, JM This appeal is filed by the assessee against the
Assessment Order dated 26.10.2017 passed by the DCIT, Circle-(1)(3)(1), New
Delhi for Assessment Year 2014-15.
2\. The grounds of appeal are as under:-
"Appeal against the order under section 143(3) read with Section 144C(13) of
the Income- tax Act, 1961 ("the Act") dated 26 October 2017 for the Assessment
Year  2 ITA No. 7123/DEL/2017 2014-15 passed by the Deputy Commissioner of
Income Tax, Circle 1(3)(1), Intl. Taxation, New Delhi ("AO") pursuant to the
directions of Dispute Resolution Panel-I ("DRP")
1\. That on the facts and in the circumstances of the case and in law, the
impugned order of assessment framed by the AO pursuant to the directions of
the DRP is erroneous and bad in law as well as in facts.
2\. That on the facts and in the circumstances of the case and in law, the
AO/DRP has wrongly alleged that receipts from domain name registration
amounting to INR 437,761,396 should be charged to tax as royalty as per the
provisions of section 9(l)(vi) read with section 115A of the Act.
3\. That on the facts and circumstances of the case and in law, the AO/DRP has
erred in holding that the web hosting services provided/rendered by the
Appellant qualify as fees for included services as per Article 12(4)(a) of the
India- USA Tax Treaty as well as under Section 9(l)(vii) of the Act.
4\. That on the facts and circumstances of the case and in law, the AO/DRP has
erred in not appreciating that the Appellant has characterized income from web
hosting services as royalty and already offered the same to tax as per the
provisions of section 9(l)(vi) read with section 115A of the Act.
5\. That on the facts and circumstances of the case and in law, the A.O/DRP
has erred in holding that the appellant has concealed its particulars of
                                                              ITAT NEW DELHI
                    Date of dictation                                  19.07.2018
                    Date on which the typed draft is placed before     23.07.2018
                    the dictating Member
                    Date on which the typed draft is placed before
                    the Other Member
                    Date on which the approved draft comes to the
                    Sr. PS/PS
                    Date on which the fair order is placed before
                    the Dictating Member for pronouncement
                    Date on which the fair order comes back to the       24.07.2018
                    Sr. PS/PS
                    Date on which the final order is uploaded on         24.07.2018
                    the website of ITAT
                    Date on which the file goes to the Bench Clerk       24.07.2018
                    Date on which the file goes to the Head Clerk
                                      Prachi Bhtia, AR
                   Respondent by      Sh. G. K. Dhall, CIT DR
                       Date of Hearing             18.07.2018
                       Date of Pronouncement        24.07.2018
                                        ORDER
PER SUCHITRA KAMBLE, JM This appeal is filed by the assessee against the
Assessment Order dated 26.10.2017 passed by the DCIT, Circle-(1)(3)(1), New
Delhi for Assessment Year 2014-15.
2\. The grounds of appeal are as under:-
"Appeal against the order under section 143(3) read with Section 144C(13) of
the Income- tax Act, 1961 ("the Act") dated 26 October 2017 for the Assessment
Year  2 ITA No. 7123/DEL/2017 2014-15 passed by the Deputy Commissioner of
Income Tax, Circle 1(3)(1), Intl. Taxation, New Delhi ("AO") pursuant to the
directions of Dispute Resolution Panel-I ("DRP")
1\. That on the facts and in the circumstances of the case and in law, the
impugned order of assessment framed by the AO pursuant to the directions of
the DRP is erroneous and bad in law as well as in facts.
2\. That on the facts and in the circumstances of the case and in law, the
AO/DRP has wrongly alleged that receipts from domain name registration
amounting to INR 437,761,396 should be charged to tax as royalty as per the
provisions of section 9(l)(vi) read with section 115A of the Act.
3\. That on the facts and circumstances of the case and in law, the AO/DRP has
erred in holding that the web hosting services provided/rendered by the
Appellant qualify as fees for included services as per Article 12(4)(a) of the
India- USA Tax Treaty as well as under Section 9(l)(vii) of the Act.
4\. That on the facts and circumstances of the case and in law, the AO/DRP has
erred in not appreciating that the Appellant has characterized income from web
hosting services as royalty and already offered the same to tax as per the
provisions of section 9(l)(vi) read with section 115A of the Act.
5\. That on the facts and circumstances of the case and in law, the A.O/DRP
has erred in holding that the appellant has concealed its particulars of
                                                              ITAT NEW DELHI
                    Date of dictation                                  19.07.2018
                    Date on which the typed draft is placed before     23.07.2018
                    the dictating Member
                    Date on which the typed draft is placed before
                    the Other Member
                    Date on which the approved draft comes to the
                    Sr. PS/PS
                    Date on which the fair order is placed before
                    the Dictating Member for pronouncement
                    Date on which the fair order comes back to the       24.07.2018
                    Sr. PS/PS
                    Date on which the final order is uploaded on         24.07.2018
                    the website of ITAT
                    Date on which the file goes to the Bench Clerk       24.07.2018
                    Date on which the file goes to the Head Clerk
