Central Government Act
the Copyright Act, 1957
The Copyright Act, 1957  
1. Short title, extent and commencement.—
(1) This Act may be called the Copyright Act, 1957.
(2) It extends to the whole of India.
(3) It shall come into force on such date1 as the Central Government may, by
notification in the Official Gazette, appoint.
2. Interpretation.—In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,—
(a) “adaptation” means,—
(i) in relation to a dramatic work, the conversion of the work into a non-
dramatic work;
(ii) in relation to a literary work or an artistic work, the conversion of the
work into a dramatic work by way of performance in public or otherwise;
(iii) in relation to a literary or dramatic work, any abridgement of the work
or any version of the work in which the story or action in conveyed wholly or
mainly by means of pictures in a form suitable for reproduction in a book, or
in a newspaper, magazine or similar periodical; 1[***] 3[***]"
(iv) in relation to a musical work, any arrangement or transcription of the
work;2[and]4[and]" 2[(v) in relation to any work, any use of such work
58\. Subs. by Act 65 of 1984, sec. 7, for sub-section (1) (w.e.f. 8-10-1984).
tc" 5. Subs. by Act 65 of 1984, sec. 7, for sub-section (1) (w.e.f.
8-10-1984)."
59\. Ins. by Act 65 of 1984, sec. 7 (w.e.f. 8-10-1984). tc" 1. Ins. by Act 65
of 1984, sec. 7 (w.e.f. 8-10-1984)."
60\. Subs. by Act 65 of 1984, sec. 8, for “one year, or with fine or with
both” (w.e.f. 8-10-1984). tc" 2. Subs. by Act 65 of 1984, sec. 8, for “one
year, or with fine or with both” (w.e.f. 8-10-1984)."
61\. Ins. by Act 65 of 1984, sec. 9 (w.e.f. 8-10-1984). tc" 1. Ins. by Act 65
of 1984, sec. 9 (w.e.f. 8-10-1984)."
62\. Subs. by Act 38 of 1994, sec. 2, for “record” (w.e.f. 10-5-1995). tc" 2.
Subs. by Act 38 of 1994, sec. 2, for “record” (w.e.f. 10-5-1995)."
63\. Subs. by Act 23 of 1983, sec. 22, for “a Presidency Magistrate or a
Magistrate of the first class” (w.e.f. 9-8-1984).
64\. For the Copyright Rules, 1958, see Gazette of India, Extra., Pt. II, Sec.
3, p. 167. (Also published in this Book after the Copyright Act, 1957). tc" 1.
work;2[and]4[and]" 2[(v) in relation to any work, any use of such work
involving its rearrangement or alteration;] 4[(v) in relation to any work, any
use of such work involving its rearrangement or alteration;]"
(b) 3[‘‘work of architecture’’] means any building or structure having as
artistic character or design, or any model for such building or structure;
5[‘‘work of architecture’’] means any building or structure having as artistic
character or design, or any model for such building or structure;"
(c) “artistic work” means,—
(i) a painting, a sculpture, a drawing (including a diagram, map, chart or
plan), an engraving or a photograph, whether or not any such work possesses
artistic quality;
(ii) a 4[work of architecture]; and 1[work of architecture]; and"
(iii) any other work of artistic craftsmanship;
(d) “author’’ means,—
(i) in relation to a literary or dramatic work, the author of the work;
(ii) in relation to a musical work, the composer;
(iii) in relation to an artistic work other than a photograph, the artist;
(iv) in relation to a photograph, the person taking the photograph; 5[(v) in
relation to a cinematograph film or sound recording, the producer; and 2[(v)
in relation to a cinematograph film or sound recording, the producer; and"
(vi) in relation to any literary, dramatic, musical or artistic work which is
computer-generated, the person who causes the work to be created;] 6[(dd)
“broadcast” means communication to the public— 3[(dd) “broadcast” means
communication to the public—"
(i) by any means of wireless diffusion, whether in any one or more of the
forms of signs, sounds or visual images; or
(ii) by wire, and includes a re-broadcast;]
(e) “ calendar year” means the year commencing on the 1st day of January;
7[(f) “cinematograph film” means any work of visual recording on any medium
produced through a process from which a moving image may be produced by any
means and includes a sound recording accompanying such visual recording and
“cinematograph” shall be construed as including any work produced by any
process analogous to cinematography including video films;] 4[(f)
“cinematograph film” means any work of visual recording on any medium produced
through a process from which a moving image may be produced by any means and
includes a sound recording accompanying such visual recording and
“cinematograph” shall be construed as including any work produced by any
process analogous to cinematography including video films;]" 8[(ff)
“communication to the public” means making any work available for being seen
or heard or otherwise enjoyed by the public directly or by any means of
display or diffusion other than by issuing copies of such work regardless of
whether any member of the public actually sees, hears or otherwise enjoys the
work so made available. 5[(ff) “communication to the public” means making any
work available for being seen or heard or otherwise enjoyed by the public
directly or by any means of display or diffusion other than by issuing copies
of such work regardless of whether any member of the public actually sees,
hears or otherwise enjoys the work so made available." Explanation.—For the
purposes of this clause, communication through satellite or cable or any other
means of simultaneous communication to more than one household or place of
residence including residential rooms of any hotel or hostel shall be deemed
to be communication to the public;
(ffa) “composer”, in relation to a musical work, means the person who composes
the music regardless of whether he records it in any form of graphical
notation;
(ffb) “computer” includes any electronic or similar device having information
processing capabilities;
(ffc) “computer programme” means a set of instructions expressed in words,
codes, schemes or in any other form, including a machine readable medium,
capable of causing a computer to perform a particular task or achieve a
particular result;
(ffd) “copyright society” means a society registered under sub-section (3) of
section 33;]
(g) “delivery”, in relation to a lecture, includes delivery by means of any
mechanical instrument or by 9[broadcast]; 1[broadcast];"
(h) “dramatic work” includes any piece of recitation, choreographic work or
entertainment in dumb show, the scenic arrangement or acting, form of which is
fixed in writing or otherwise but does not include a cinematograph film;
10[(hh) “duplicating equipment” means any mechanical contrivance or device
used or intended to be used for making copies of any work;] 2[(hh)
“duplicating equipment” means any mechanical contrivance or device used or
intended to be used for making copies of any work;]"
(i) “engravings” include etchings, lithographs, wood-cuts, prints and other
similar works, not being photographs;
(j) “exclusive licence” means a licence which confers on the licensee or on
the licensee and persons authorised by him, to the exclusion of all other
persons (including the owner of the copyright) any right comprised in the
copyright in a work, and “exclusive licensee” shall be construed accordingly;
(k) “Government work” means a work which is made or published by or under the
direction or control of—
(i) the Government or any department of the Government;
(ii) any Legislature in India;
(iii) any Court, Tribunal or other judicial authority in India; 11[(l) “Indian
work” means a literary, dramatic or musical work,— 3[(l) “Indian work” means a
literary, dramatic or musical work,—"
(i) the author of which is a citizen of India; or
(ii) which is first published in India; or
(iii) the author of which, in the case of an unpublished work is, at the time
of the making of the work, a citizen of India;] 12[(m) “infringing copy”
means,— 4[(m) “infringing copy” means,—"
(i) in relation to a literary, dramatic, musical or artistic work, a
reproduction thereof otherwise than in the form of a cinematographic film;
(ii) in relation to a cinematographic film, a copy of the film made on any
medium by any means;
(iii) in relation to a sound recording, any other recording embodying the same
sound recording, made by any means;
(iv) in relation to a programme or performance in which such a broadcast
reproduction right or a performer’s right subsists under the provisions of
this Act, the sound recording or a cinematographic film of such programme or
performance, if such reproduction, copy or sound recording is made or imported
in contravention of the provisions of this Act;]
(n) “lecture” includes address, speech and sermon; 13[(o) “literary work”
includes computer programmes, tables and compilations including computer
14[databases];] 1[(o) “literary work” includes computer programmes, tables and
compilations including computer 2[databases];]" 13[(p) “musical work” means a
work consisting of music and includes any graphical notation of such work but
does not include any words or any action intended to be sung, spoken or
performed with the music;] 1[(p) “musical work” means a work consisting of
music and includes any graphical notation of such work but does not include
any words or any action intended to be sung, spoken or performed with the
music;]" 13[(q) “performance”, in relation to performer’s right, means any
visual or acoustic presentation made live by one or more performers;] 1[(q)
“performance”, in relation to performer’s right, means any visual or acoustic
presentation made live by one or more performers;]" 13[(qq) “performer”
includes an actor, singer, musician, dancer, acrobat, juggler, conjurer, snake
charmer, a person delivering a lecture or any other person who makes a
performance;] 1[(qq) “performer” includes an actor, singer, musician, dancer,
acrobat, juggler, conjurer, snake charmer, a person delivering a lecture or
any other person who makes a performance;]" 15[***] 3[***]"
(s) “photograph” includes photo-lithograph and any work produced by any
process analogous to photography but does not include any part of a
cinematograph film;
(t) “plate” includes any stereotype or other plate, stone, block, mould,
matrix, transfer, negative 16[,duplicating equipment] or other device used or
intended to be used for printing or reproducing copies of any work, and any
matrix or other appliance by which 17[sound recording] for the acoustic
presentation of the work are or are intended to be made; 4[,duplicating
equipment] or other device used or intended to be used for printing or
reproducing copies of any work, and any matrix or other appliance by which
5[sound recording] for the acoustic presentation of the work are or are
intended to be made;"
(u) “prescribed” means prescribed by rules made under this Act; 18[(uu)
“producer”, in relation to a cinematograph film or sound recording, means a
person who takes the initiative and responsibility for making the work;]
6[(uu) “producer”, in relation to a cinematograph film or sound recording,
means a person who takes the initiative and responsibility for making the
work;]" 19[***] 7[***]" 20[***] 8[***]" 21[(x) “reprography” means the making
of copies of a work, by photocopying or similar means; 1[(x) “reprography”
means the making of copies of a work, by photocopying or similar means;"
(xx) “sound recording” means a recording of sounds from which such sounds may
be produced regardless of the medium on which such recording is the method by
which the sounds are produced;]
(y) “work” means any of the following works, namely:—
(i) a literary, dramatic, musical or artistic work;
(ii) a cinematograph film;
(iii) a 22[sound recording]; 2[sound recording];"
(z) “work of joint authorship” means a work produced by the collaboration of
two or more authors in which the contribution of one author is not distinct
from the contribution of the other author or authors;
(za) “work of sculpture” includes casts and models.
4. When work not deemed to be published or performed in public.—Except in relation to infringement of copyright, a work shall not be deemed to be published or performed in public, if published, or performed in public, without the licence of the owner of the copyright.
5. When work deemed to be first published in India.—For the purposes of this Act, a work published in India shall be deemed to be first published in India, notwithstanding that it has been published simultaneously in some other country, unless such other country provides a shorter term of copyright for such work; and a work shall be deemed to be published simultaneously in India and in another country if the time between the publication in India and the publication in such other country does not exceed thirty days or such other period as the Central Government may, in relation to any specified country, determine.
1[6. Certain disputes to be decided by Copyright Board.—If any question
arises—1[6. Certain disputes to be decided by Copyright Board.—If any question
arises—"
(a) whether a work has been published or as to the date on which a work was
published for the purposes of Chapter V, or
(b) whether the term of copyright for any work is shorter in any other country
than that provided in respect of that work under this Act, it shall be
referred to the Copyright Board constituted under section 11 whose decision
thereon shall be final: Provided that if in the opinion of the Copyright
Board, the issue of copies or communication to the public referred to in
section 3 was of an insignificant nature, it shall not be deemed to be
publication for the purposes of that section.]
7. Nationality of author where the making of unpublished work is extended over considerable period.—Where, in the case of an unpublished work, the making of the work is extended over a considerable period, the author of the work shall, for the purposes of this Act, be deemed to be a citizen of, or domiciled in, that country of which he was a citizen or wherein he was domiciled during any substantial part of that period.
8. Domicile of corporations.—For the purposes of this Act, a body corporate shall be deemed to be domiciled in India if it is incorporated under any law in force in India.
9. Copyright Office.—
(1) There shall be established for the purposes of this Act an office to be
called the Copyright Office.
(2) The Copyright Office shall be under the immediate control of the Registrar
of Copyrights who shall act under the superintendence and direction of the
Central Government.
(3) There shall be a seal for the Copyright Office.
10. Registrar and Deputy Registrars of Copyrights.—
(1) The Central Government shall appoint a Registrar of Copyrights and may
appoint one or more Deputy Registrars of Copyrights.
(2) A Deputy Registrar of Copyrights shall discharge under the superintendence
and direction of the Registrar of Copyrights such functions of the Registrar
under this Act as the Registrar may, from time to time, assign to him; and any
reference in this Act to the Registrar of Copyrights shall include a reference
to a Deputy Registrar of Copyrights when so discharging any such functions.
11. Copyright Board.—
(1) As soon as may be after the commencement of this Act, the Central
Government shall constitute a Board to be called the Copyright Board which
shall consist of a Chairman and not less than two or more than 1[fourteen]
other members.—(1) As soon as may be after the commencement of this Act, the
Central Government shall constitute a Board to be called the Copyright Board
which shall consist of a Chairman and not less than two or more than
2[fourteen] other members."
(2) The Chairman and other members of the Copyright Board shall hold office
for such period and on such terms and conditions as may be prescribed.
(3) The Chairman of the Copyright Board shall be a person who is, or has been,
a Judge of 2[***] a High Court or is qualified for appointment as a Judge of
High Court.
(4) The Registrar of Copyrights shall be the Secretary of the Copyright Board
and shall perform such functions as may be prescribed.
12. Powers and procedure of Copyright Board.—
(1) The Copyright Board shall, subject to any rules that may be under this
Act, have power to regulate its own procedure, including the fixing of places
and times of its sittings: Provided that the Copyright Board shall ordinarily
hear any proceeding instituted before it under this Act within the zone in
which, at the time of the institution of the proceeding, the person
instituting the proceeding actually and voluntarily resides or carries on
business or personally work for gain. Explanation.-—In this sub-section “zone”
means a zone specified in section 15 of the States Reorganisation Act, 1956
(37 of 1956).
(2) The Copyright Board may exercise and discharge its powers and functions
through Benches constituted by the Chairman of the Copyright Board from
amongst its members, each Bench consisting of not less than three members:
1[Provided that, if the Chairman is of opinion that any matter of importance
is required to be heard by a larger Bench, he may refer the matter to a
special Bench consisting of five members.]
(3) If there is a difference of opinion among the members of the Copyright
Board or any Bench thereof in respect of any matter coming before it for
decision under this Act, the opinion of the majority shall prevail: 2[Provided
that where there is no such majority, the opinion of the Chairman shall
prevail.]
(4) 3[The Chairman] may authorise any of its members to exercise any of the
powers conferred on it by section 74 and any order made or act done in
exercise of those powers by the member so authorised shall be deemed to be the
order or act, as the case may be, of the Board.
(5) No member of the Copyright Board shall take part in any proceedings before
the Board in respect of any matter in which he has a personal interest.
(6) No act done or proceeding taken by the Copyright Board under this Act
shall be questioned on the ground merely of the existence of any vacancy in,
or defect in the constitution of, the Board.
(7) The Copyright Board shall be deemed to be a Civil Court for the purposes
of 4[sections 345 and 346 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974)]
and all proceedings before the Board shall be deemed to be judicial
proceedings within the meaning of sections 193 and 228 of the Indian Penal
Code, 1860 (45 of 1860).
13. Works in which copyright subsists.—
(1) Subject to the provisions of this section and the other provisions of this
Act, copyright shall subsist throughout India in the following classes of
works, that is to say,—
(a) original literary, dramatic, musical and artistic works;
(b) cinematograph films; and
(c) 1[sound recording]. 1[sound recording]."
(2) Copyright shall not subsist in any work specified in sub-section (1),
other than a work to which the provisions of section 40 or section 41 apply,
unless,—
(i) in the case of a published work, the work is first published in India, or
where the work is first published outside India, the author is at the date of
such publication, or in a case where the author was dead at that date, was at
the time of his death, a citizen of India;
(ii) in the case of an unpublished work other than 2[work of architecture],
the author is at the date of the making of the work a citizen of India or
domiciled in India; and 2[work of architecture], the author is at the date of
the making of the work a citizen of India or domiciled in India; and"
(iii) in the case of 2[work of architecture], the work is located in India.
2[work of architecture], the work is located in India." Explanation.—In the
case of a work of joint authorship, the conditions conferring copyright
specified in this sub-section shall be satisfied by all the authors of the
work.
(3) Copyright shall not subsist—
(a) in any cinematograph film if a substantial part of the film is an
infringement of the copyright in any other work;
(b) in any 1[sound recording] made in respect of a literary, dramatic or
musical work, if in making the 1[sound recording], copyright in such work has
been infringed. 1[sound recording] made in respect of a literary, dramatic or
musical work, if in making the 1[sound recording], copyright in such work has
been infringed."
(4) The copyright in a cinematograph film or a 1[sound recording] shall not
affect the separate copyright in any work in respect of which or a substantial
part of which, the film, or, as the case may be, the 1[sound recording] is
made.
(5) In the case of 2[work of architecture], copyright shall subsist only in
the artistic character and design and shall not extend to processes or methods
of construction.
1[14. Meaning of copyright.—For the purposes of this Act, “copyright” means
the exclusive right subject to the provisions of this Act, to do or authorise
the doing of any of the following acts in respect of a work or any substantial
part thereof, namely:—1[14. Meaning of copyright.—For the purposes of this
Act, “copyright” means the exclusive right subject to the provisions of this
Act, to do or authorise the doing of any of the following acts in respect of a
work or any substantial part thereof, namely\:—"
(a) in the case of a literary, dramatic or musical work, not being a computer
programme,—
(i) to reproduce the work in any material form including the storing of it in
any medium by electronic means;
(ii) to issue copies of the work to the public not being copies already in
circulation;
(iii) to perform the work in public, or communicate it to the public;
(iv) to make any cinematograph film or sound recording in respect of the work;
(v) to make any translation of the work;
(vi) to make any adaptation of the work;
(vii) to do, in relation to a translation or an adaptation of the work, any of
the acts specified in relation to the work in sub-clauses (i) to (vi);
(b) in the case of a computer programme,—
(i) to do any of the acts specified in clause (a); 2[(ii) to sell or give on
commercial rental or offer for sale or for commercial rental any copy of the
computer programme: 2[(ii) to sell or give on commercial rental or offer for
sale or for commercial rental any copy of the computer programme\:" Provided
that such commercial rental does not apply in respect of computer programmes
where the programme itself is not the essential object of the rental.]
(c) in the case of an artistic work,—
(i) to reproduce the work in any material form including depiction in three
dimensions of a two dimensional work or in two dimensions of a three
dimensional work;
(ii) to communicate the work to the public;
(iii) to issue copies of the work to the public not being copies already in
circulation;
(iv) to include the work in any cinematograph film;
(v) to make any adaptation of the work;
(vi) to do in relation to an adaptation of the work any of the acts specified
in relation to the work in sub-clauses (i) to (iv);
(d) in the case of a cinematograph film,—
(i) to make a copy of the film including a photograph of any image forming
part thereof;
(ii) to sell or give on hire or offer for sale or hire, any copy of the film,
regardless of whether such copy has been sold or given on hire on earlier
occasions;
(iii) to communicate the film to the public;
(e) in the case of a sound recording,—
(i) to make any other sound recording embodying it;
(ii) to sell or give on hire, or offer for sale or hire, any copy of the sound
recording, regardless of whether such copy has been sold or given on hire on
earlier occasions;
(iii) to communicate the sound recording to the public. Explanation.— For the
purposes of this section, a copy which has been sold once shall be deemed to
be a copy already in circulation.]
15 Special provision regarding copyright in designs registered or capable of
being registered under the 1 [***] Designs Act, 1911. —
(1) Copyright shall not subsist under this Act in any design which is
registered under the 1 [***] Designs Act, 1911 (2 of 1911) 2 .
(2) Copyright in any design, which is capable of being registered under the 1
[***] Designs Act, 1911 (2 of 1911) 2 , but which has not been so registered,
shall cease as soon as any article to which the design has been applied has
been reproduced more than fifty times by an industrial process by the owner of
the copyright, or, with his licence, by any other person.
16. No copyright except as provided in this Act.—No person shall be entitled to copyright or any similar right in any work, whether published or unpublished, otherwise than under and in accordance with the provisions of this Act or of any other for the time being in force, but nothing in this section shall be construed as abrogating any right or jurisdiction to restrain a breach of trust or confidence.
17 First owner of copyright:- Subject to the provisions of this Act, the
author of a work shall be the first owner of the copyright therein: Provided
that—
(a) in the case of a literary, dramatic or artistic work made by the author in
the course of his employment by the proprietor of a newspaper, magazine or
similar periodical under a contract of service or apprenticeship, for the
purpose of publication in a newspaper, magazine or similar periodical, the
said proprietor shall, in the absence of any agreement to the contrary, be the
first owner of the copyright in the work in so far as the copyright relates to
the publication of the work in any newspaper, magazine or similar periodical,
or to the reproduction of the work for the purpose of its being so published,
but in all other respects the author shall be the first owner of the copyright
in the work;
(b) subject to the provisions of clause (a), in the case of a photograph
taken, or a painting or portrait drawn, or an engraving or a cinematograph
film made, for valuable consideration at the instance of any person, such
person shall, in the absence of any agreement to the contrary, be the first
owner of the copyright therein;
(c) in the case of a work made in the course of the author's employment under
a contract of service or apprenticeship, to which clause (a) or clause (b)
does not apply, the employer shall, in the absence of any agreement to the
contrary, be the first owner of the copyright therein;
4 [(cc) in the case of any address or speech delivered in public, the person
who has delivered such address or speech or if such person has delivered such
address or speech on behalf of any other person, such other person shall be
the first owner of the copyright therein notwithstanding that the person who
delivers such address or speech, or, as the case may be, the person on whose
behalf such address or speech is delivered, is employed by any other person
who arranges such address or speech or on whose behalf or premises such
address or speech is delivered;]
(d) in the case of a Government work, Government shall, in the absence of any
agreement to the contrary, be the first owner of the copyright therein;
4 [(dd) in the case of a work made or first published by or under the
direction or control of any public undertaking, such public undertaking shall,
in the absence of any agreement to the contrary, be the first owner of the
copyright therein;
Explanation. —For the purposes of this clause and section 28A, “public
undertaking” means—
(i) an undertaking owned or controlled by Government; or
(ii) a Government company as defined in section 617 of the Companies Act, 1956
(1 of 1956); or
(iii) a body corporate established by or under any Central, Provincial or
State Act;]
(e) in the case of a work to which the provisions of section 41 apply, the
international organisation concerned shall be the first owner of the copyright
therein.
18. Assignment of copyright.—
(1) The owner of the copyright in an existing work or the prospective owner of
the copyright in a future work may assign to any person the copyright either
wholly or partially and either generally or subject to limitations and either
for the whole of the copyright or any part thereof: Provided that in the case
of the assignment of copyright in any future work, the assignment shall take
effect only when the work comes into existence.
(2) Where the assignee of a copyright becomes entitled to any right comprised
in the copyright, the assignee as respects the rights so assigned, and the
assignor as respects the rights not assigned, shall be treated for the
purposes of this Act as the owner of copyright and the provisions of this Act
shall have effect accordingly.
(3) In this section, the expression “assignee” as respects the assignment of
the copyright in any future work includes the legal representatives of the
assignee, if the assignee dies before the work comes into existence.
19. Mode of assignment.—1[
(1) ] No assignment of the copyright in any work shall be valid unless it is
in writing signed by the assignor or by his duly authorised agent.—1[(1)] No
assignment of the copyright in any work shall be valid unless it is in writing
signed by the assignor or by his duly authorised agent." 2[3[(2) The
assignment of copyright in any work shall identify such work, and shall
specify the rights assigned and the duration and territorial extent of such
assignment.
(3) The assignment of copyright in any work shall also specify the amount of
royalty payable, if any, to the author or his legal heirs during the currency
of the assignment and the assignment shall be subject to revision, extension
or termination on terms mutually agreed upon by the parties.
(4) Where the assignee does not exercise the right assigned to him under any
of the other sub-sections of this section within period of one year from the
date of assignment, the assignment in respect of such rights shall be deemed
to have lapsed after the expiry of the said period unless otherwise specified
in the assignment.
(5) If the period of assignment is not stated, it shall be deemed to be five
years from the date of assignment.
(6) If the territorial extent of assignment of the rights is not specified, it
shall be presumed to extend within India.
(7) Nothing in sub-section (2) or sub-section (3) or sub-section (4) or sub-
section (5) or sub-section (6) shall be applicable to assignments made before
the coming into force of the Copyright (Amendment) Act, 1994.]]
1[19A. Disputes with respect to assignment of copyright.—
(1) If an assignee fails to make sufficient exercise of the rights assigned to
him, and such failure is not attributable to any act or omission of the
assignor, then, the Copyright Board may, on receipt of a complaint from the
assignor and after holding such inquiry as it may deem necessary, revoke such
assignment.1[19A. Disputes with respect to assignment of copyright.—(1) If an
assignee fails to make sufficient exercise of the rights assigned to him, and
such failure is not attributable to any act or omission of the assignor, then,
the Copyright Board may, on receipt of a complaint from the assignor and after
holding such inquiry as it may deem necessary, revoke such assignment."
(2) If any dispute arises with respect to the assignment of any copyright, the
Copyright Board may, on receipt of a complaint from the aggrieved party and
after holding such inquiry as it considers necessary, pass such order as it
may deem fit including an order for the recovery of any royalty payable:
Provided that Copyright Board shall not pass any order under this sub-section
to revoke the assignment unless it is satisfied that the terms of assignment
are harsh to the assignor in case the assignor is also the author: Provided
further that no order of revocation of assignment under this sub-section,
shall be made within a period of five years from the date of such assignment.]
20. Transmission of copyright in manuscript by testamentary disposition.—Where under a bequest a person is entitled to the manuscript of a literary, dramatic or musical work, or to an artistic work, and the work was not published before the death of the testator, the bequest shall, unless the contrary intention is indicated in the testator’s will or any codicil thereto, be construed as including the copyright in the work in so far as the testator was the owner of the copyright immediately before his death. Explanation.—In this section, the expression “manuscript” means the original document embodying the work, whether written by hand or not.
21. Right of author to relinquish copyright.—
(1) The author of a work may relinquish all or any of the rights comprised in
the copyright in the work by giving notice in the prescribed form to the
Registrar of Copyrights and thereupon such rights shall, subject to the
provisions of sub-section (3), cease to exist from the date of the notice.
(2) On receipt of a notice under sub-section (1), the Registrar of Copyrights
shall cause it to be published in the Official Gazette and in such other
manner as he may deem fit.
(3) The relinquishment of all or any of the rights comprised in the copyright
in a work shall not affect any rights subsisting in favour of any person on
the date of the notice referred to in sub-section (1).
22. Term of copyright in published literary, dramatic, musical and artistic works.—Except as otherwise hereinafter provided, copyright shall subsist in any literary, dramatic, musical or artistic work (other than a photograph) published within the lifetime of the author until 1[sixty years] from the beginning of the calendar year next following the year in which the author dies. Explanation.—In this section the reference to the author shall, in the case of a work of joint authorship, be construed as a reference to the author who dies last.
23. Term of copyright in anonymous and pseudonymous works.—
(1) In the case of a literary, dramatic, musical or artistic work (other than
a photograph), which is published anonymously or pseudonymously, copyright
shall subsist until 1[sixty years] from the beginning of the calendar year
next following the year in which the work is first published:—(1) In the case
of a literary, dramatic, musical or artistic work (other than a photograph),
which is published anonymously or pseudonymously, copyright shall subsist
until 1[sixty years] from the beginning of the calendar year next following
the year in which the work is first published\:" Provided that where the
identity of the author is disclosed before the expiry of the said period,
copyright shall subsist until 1[sixty years] from the beginning of the
calendar year following the year in which the author dies.
(2) In sub-section (1), references to the author shall, in the case of an
anonymous work of joint authorship, be construed,—
(a) where the identity of one of the authors is disclosed, as references to
that author;
(b) where the identity of more authors than one is disclosed, as references to
the author who dies last from amongst such authors.
(3) In sub-section (1), references to the author shall, in the case of a
pseudonymous work of joint authorship, be construed,—
(a) where the names of one or more (but not all) of the authors are
pseudonymous and his or their identity is not disclosed, as references to the
author whose name is not a pseudonym, or, if the names of two or more of the
authors are not pseudonyms, as references to such of those authors who dies
last;
(b) where the names of one or more (but not all) of the authors are pseudonyms
and the identity of one or more of them is disclosed, as references to the
author who dies last from amongst the authors whose names are not pseudonyms
and the authors whose names are pseudonyms and are disclosed; and
(c) where the names of all the authors are pseudonyms and the identity of one
of them is disclosed, as references to the author whose identity is disclosed
or if the identity of two or more of such authors is disclosed, as references
to such of those authors who dies last. Explanation.—For the purposes of this
section, the identity of an author shall be deemed to have been disclosed, if
either the identity of the author is disclosed publicly by both the author and
the publisher or is otherwise established to the satisfaction of the Copyright
Board by that author.
24. Term of copyright in posthumous work.—
(1) In the case of a literary, dramatic or musical work or an engraving, in
which copyright subsists at the date of the death of the author, or in the
case of any such work of joint authorship, at or immediately before the date
of the death of the author who dies last, but which, or any adaptation of
which, has not been published before that date, copyright shall subsist until
1[sixty years] from the beginning of the calendar year next following the year
in which the work is first published or, where an adaptation of the work is
published in any earlier year, from the beginning of the calendar year next
following that year.—(1) In the case of a literary, dramatic or musical work
or an engraving, in which copyright subsists at the date of the death of the
author, or in the case of any such work of joint authorship, at or immediately
before the date of the death of the author who dies last, but which, or any
adaptation of which, has not been published before that date, copyright shall
subsist until 1[sixty years] from the beginning of the calendar year next
following the year in which the work is first published or, where an
adaptation of the work is published in any earlier year, from the beginning of
the calendar year next following that year."
(2) For the purposes of this section a literary, dramatic or musical work or
an adaptation of any such work shall be deemed to have been published, if it
has been performed in public or if any 2[sound recording] made in respect of
the work have been sold to the public or have been offered for sale to the
public.
25. Term of copyright in photographs.—In the case of a photograph, copyright shall subsist until 1[sixty years] from the beginning of the calendar year next following the year in which the photograph is published.—In the case of a photograph, copyright shall subsist until 1[sixty years] from the beginning of the calendar year next following the year in which the photograph is published."
26. Term of copyright in cinematograph films.—In the case of a cinematograph film, copyright shall subsist until 1[sixty years] from the beginning of the calendar year next following the year in which the film is published.—In the case of a cinematograph film, copyright shall subsist until 1[sixty years] from the beginning of the calendar year next following the year in which the film is published."
27. Term of copyright in 2[sound recording].—In the case a 2[sound recording] copyright shall subsist until 1[sixty years] from the beginning of the calendar year next following the year in which the 2[sound recording] is published.
28. Term of copyright in Government works.—In the case of Government work, where Government is the first owner of the copyright therein, copyright shall subsist until 1[sixty years] from the beginning of the calendar year next following the year in which the record is first published.—In the case of Government work, where Government is the first owner of the copyright therein, copyright shall subsist until 1[sixty years] from the beginning of the calendar year next following the year in which the record is first published."
1[28A. Term of copyright in works of public undertakings.—In the case of a
work, where a public undertaking is the first owner of the copyright therein,
copyright shall subsist until 2[sixty years] from the beginning of the
calendar years next following the year in which the work is first published.]
29. Term of copyright in works of international organisations.—In the case of a work of any international organisation to which the provisions of section 41 apply, copyright shall subsist until 1[sixty years] from the beginning of the calendar year next following the year in which the work is first published.—In the case of a work of any international organisation to which the provisions of section 41 apply, copyright shall subsist until 1[sixty years] from the beginning of the calendar year next following the year in which the work is first published."
30. Licences by owners of copyright.—The owner of the copyright in any existing work or the prospective owner of the copyright in any future work may grant any interest in the right by licence in writing signed by him or by his duly authorised agent: Provided that in the case of a licence relating to copyright in any future work, the licence shall take effect only when the work comes into existence. Explanation.—Where a person to whom a licence relating to copyright in any future work is granted under this section dies before the work comes into existence, his legal representatives shall, in the absence of any provision to the contrary in the licence, be entitled to the benefit of the licence.
1[30A. Application of sections 19 and 19A.—The provisions of sections 19 and
19A shall, with any necessary adaptations and modifications, apply in relation
to a licence under section 30 as they apply in relation to assignment of
copyright in a work.]1[30A. Application of sections 19 and 19A.—The provisions
of sections 19 and 19A shall, with any necessary adaptations and
modifications, apply in relation to a licence under section 30 as they apply
in relation to assignment of copyright in a work.]"
31. Compulsory licence in works withheld from public.—
(1) If at any time during the term of copyright in any Indian work which has
been published or performed in public, a complaint is made to the Copyright
Board that the owner of copyright in the work—
(a) has refused to re-publish or allow the re-publication of the work or has
refused to allow the performance in public of the work, and by reason of such
refusal the work is withheld from the public; or
(b) has refused to allow communication to the public by 1[broadcast], of such
work or in the case of a 2[sound recording] the work recorded in such 2[sound
recording], on terms which the complainant considers reasonable, 2[broadcast],
of such work or in the case of a 3[sound recording] the work recorded in such
3[sound recording], on terms which the complainant considers reasonable," the
Copyright Board, after giving to the owner of the copyright in the work a
reasonable opportunity of being heard and after holding such inquiry as it may
deem necessary, may, if it is satisfied that the grounds for such refusal are
not reasonable, direct the Registrar of Copyrights to grant to the complainant
a licence to re-publish the work, perform the work in public or communicate
the work to the public by 1[broadcast], as the case may be, subject to payment
to the owner of the copyright of such compensation and subject to such other
terms and conditions as the Copyright Board may determine; and thereupon the
Registrar of Copyrights shall grant the licence to the complainant in
accordance with the directions of Copyright Board, on payment of such fee as
may be prescribed. Explanation.—In this sub-section, the expression “Indian
work” includes—
(i) an artistic work, the author of which is a citizen of India; and
(ii) a cinematograph film or a 2[sound recording] made or manufactured in
India. 3[sound recording] made or manufactured in India."
(2) Where two or more persons have made a complaint under sub-section (1), the
licence shall be granted to the complainant who in the opinion of the
Copyright Board would best serve the interests of the general public.
1[31A. Compulsory licence in unpublished Indian works.—
(1) Where, in the case of an Indian work referred to in sub-clause (iii) of
clause (1) of section 2, the author is dead or unknown or cannot be traced, or
the owner of the copyright in such work cannot be found, any person may apply
to the Copyright Board for a license to publish such work or a translation
thereof in any language.4[31A. Compulsory licence in unpublished Indian
works.—(1) Where, in the case of an Indian work referred to in sub-clause
(iii) of clause (1) of section 2, the author is dead or unknown or cannot be
traced, or the owner of the copyright in such work cannot be found, any person
may apply to the Copyright Board for a license to publish such work or a
translation thereof in any language."
(2) Before making an application under sub-section (1), the applicant shall
publish his proposal in one issue of a daily newspaper in the English language
having circulation in the major part of the country and where the application
is for the publication of a translation in any language, also in one issue of
any daily newspaper in that language.
(3) Every such application shall be made in such form as may be prescribed and
shall be accompanied with a copy of the advertisement issued under sub-section
(2) and such fee as may be prescribed.
(4) Where an application is made to the Copyright Board under this section, it
may, after holding such inquiry as may be prescribed, direct the Registrar of
Copyrights to grant to the applicant a licence to publish the work or a
translation thereof in the language mentioned in the application subject to
the payment of such royalty and subject to such other terms and conditions as
the Copyright Board may determine, and thereupon the Registrar of Copyrights
shall grant the licence to the applicant in accordance with the direction of
the Copyright Board.
(5) Where a licence is granted under this section, the Registrar of Copyrights
may, by order, direct the applicant to deposit the amount of the royalty
determined by the Copyright Board in the public account of India or in any
other account specified by the Copyright Board so as to enable the owner of
the copyright or, as the case may be, his heirs, executors or the legal
representatives to claim such royalty at any time.
(6) Without prejudice to the foregoing provisions of this section, in the case
of a work referred to in sub-section (1), if the original author is dead, the
Central Government may, if it considers that the publication of the work is
desirable in the national interest, require the heirs, executors or legal
representatives of the author to publish such work within such period as may
be specified by it.
(7) Where any work is not published within the period specified by the Central
Government under sub-section (6), the Copyright Board may, on an application
made by any person for permission to publish the work and after hearing the
parties concerned, permit such publication on payment of such royalty as the
Copyright Board may, in the circumstances of such case, determine in the
prescribed manner.]
32. Licence to produce and publish translations.—
(1) Any person may apply to the Copyright Board for a licence to produce and
publish a translation of a literary or dramatic work in any language 1[after a
period of seven years from the first publication of the work].—(1) Any person
may apply to the Copyright Board for a licence to produce and publish a
translation of a literary or dramatic work in any language 1[after a period of
seven years from the first publication of the work]." 1[(1A) Notwithstanding
anything contained in sub-section (1), any person may apply to the Copyright
Board for a licence to produce and publish a translation, in printed or
analogous forms of reproduction, of a literary or dramatic work, other than an
Indian work, in any language in general use in India after a period of three
years from the first publication of such work, if such translation is required
for the purposes of teaching, scholarship or research: Provided that where
such translation is in a language not in general use in any developed country,
such application may be made after a period of one year from such
publication.]
(2) Every 2[application under this section] shall be made in such form as may
be prescribed and shall state the proposed retail price of a copy of the
translation of the work.
(3) Every applicant for a licence under this section shall, along with his
application, deposit with the Registrar of Copyrights such fee as may be
prescribed.
(4) Where an application is made to the Copyright Board under this section, it
may, after holding such inquiry as may be prescribed, grant to the applicant a
licence, not being an exclusive licence, to produce and publish a translation
of the work in the language mentioned in 3[the application—
(i) subject to the condition that the applicant shall pay to the owner of the
copyright in the work royalties in respect of copies of the translation of the
work sold to the public, calculated at such rate as the Copyright Board may,
in the circumstances of each case, determine in the prescribed manner; and
(ii) where such licence is granted on an application under sub-section(1A),
subject also to the condition that the licence shall not extend to the export
of copies of the translation of the work outside India and every copy of such
translation shall contain a notice in the language of such translation that
the copy is available for distribution only in India: Provided that nothing in
clause (ii) shall apply to export by Government or any authority under the
Government of copies of such translation in a language other than English,
French or Spanish in any country if—
(1) such copies are sent to citizens of India residing outside India or to any
association of such citizens outside India; or
(2) such copies are meant to be used for purposes of teaching, scholarship or
research and not for any commercial purpose; and
(3) in either case, the permission for such export has been given by the
Government of that country:] 4[Provided further that no licence under this
section] shall be granted, unless—
(a) a translation of the work in the language mentioned in the application has
not been published by the owner of the copyright in the work or any person
authorised by him, 5[within seven years or three years or one year, as the
case may be, of the first publication of the work], or if a translation has
been so published, it has been out of print; 4[within seven years or three
years or one year, as the case may be, of the first publication of the work],
or if a translation has been so published, it has been out of print;"
(b) the applicant has proved to the satisfaction of the Copyright Board that
he had requested and had been denied authorisation by the owner of the
copyright to produce and publish such translation, or that 6[he was, after due
diligence on his part, unable to find] the owner of the copyright; 1[he was,
after due diligence on his part, unable to find] the owner of the copyright;"
(c) where the applicant was unable to find the owner of the copyright, he had
sent a copy of his request for 7[such authorisation by registered air mail
post to the publisher whose name appears from the work, and in the case of an
application for a licence under sub-section (1)], not less than two months
before 8[such application];2[such authorisation by registered air mail post to
the publisher whose name appears from the work, and in the case of an
application for a licence under sub-section (1)], not less than two months
before 3[such application];" 9[(cc) a period of six months in the case of an
application under sub-section (1A) (not being an application under the proviso
thereto), or nine months in the case of an application under the proviso to
that sub-section, has elapsed from the date of making the request under clause
(b) of this proviso or where a copy of the request has been sent under clause
(c) of this proviso, from the date of sending of such copy, and the
translation of the work in the language mentioned in the application has not
been published by the owner of the copyright in the work or any person
authorised by him within the said period of six months or nine months, as the
case may be; 4[(cc) a period of six months in the case of an application under
sub-section (1A) (not being an application under the proviso thereto), or nine
months in the case of an application under the proviso to that sub-section,
has elapsed from the date of making the request under clause (b) of this
proviso or where a copy of the request has been sent under clause (c) of this
proviso, from the date of sending of such copy, and the translation of the
work in the language mentioned in the application has not been published by
the owner of the copyright in the work or any person authorised by him within
the said period of six months or nine months, as the case may be;"
(ccc) in the case of any application made under sub-section (1A),—
(i) the name of the author and the title of the particular edition of the work
proposed to be translated are printed on all the copies of the translation;
(ii) if the work is composed mainly of illustrations, the provisions of
section 32A are also complied with;]
(d) the Copyright Board is satisfied that the applicant is competent to
produce and publish a correct translation of the work and possesses the means
to pay to the owner of the copyright the royalties payable to him under this
section;
(e) the author has not withdrawn from circulation copies of the work; and
(f) an opportunity of being heard is given, wherever practicable, to the owner
of the copyright in the work. 9[(5) Any broadcasting authority may apply to
the Copyright Board for a licence to produce and publish the translation of—
(a) a work referred to in sub-section (1A) and published in printed or
analogous forms of reproduction;or
(b) any text incorporated in audio-visual fixations prepared and published
solely for the purpose of systematic instructional activities, for
broadcasting such translation for the purposes of teaching or for the
dissemination of the results of specialised, technical or scientific research
to the experts in any particular field.
(6) The provisions of sub-sections (2) to (4) in so far as they are relatable
to an application under sub-section (1A), shall, with the necessary
modifications, apply to the grant of a licence under sub-section (5) and such
licence shall not also be granted unless—
(a) the translation is made from a work lawfully acquired;
(b) the broadcast is made through the medium of sound and visual recordings;
(c) such recording has been lawfully and exclusively made for the purpose of
broadcasting in India by the applicant or by other broadcasting agency; and
(d) the translation and the broadcasting of such translation are not used for
any commercial purposes. Explanation.—For the purposes of this section,—
(a) “developed country” means a country which is not a developing country;
(b) “developing country” means a country which is for the time being regarded
as such in conformity with the practice of the General Assembly of the United
Nations;
(c) “purposes of research” does not include purposes of industrial research,
or purposes of research by bodies corporate (not being bodies corporate owned
or controlled by Government) or other association or body of persons for
commercial purposes;
(d) “purposes of teaching, research or scholarship” includes—
(i) purposes of instructional activity at all levels in educational
institutions, including Schools, Colleges, Universities and tutorial
institutions; and
(ii) purposes of all other types of organised educational activity.]
26 [32B. Termination of licences issued under this Chapter.—
(1) If, at any time after the granting of a licence to produce and publish the
translation of a work in any language under sub-section (1A) of section 32
(hereafter in this sub-section referred to as the licensed work), the owner of
the copyright in the work or any person authorised by him publishes a
translation of such work in the same language and which is substantially the
same in content at a price reasonably related to the price normally charged in
India for the translation of works of the same standard on the same or similar
subject, the licence so granted shall be terminated: Provided that no such
termination shall take effect until after the expiry of a period of three
months from the date of service of a notice in the prescribed manner on the
person holding such licence by the owner of the right of translation
intimating the publication of the translation as aforesaid: Provided further
that copies of the licensed work produced and published by the person holding
such licence before the termination of the licence takes effect may continue
to be sold or distributed until the copies already produced and published are
exhausted.
(2) If, at any time after the granting of a licence to produce and publish the
reproduction or translation of any work under section 32A, the owner of the
right of reproduction or any person authorised by him sells or distributes
copies of such work or a translation thereof, as the case may be, in the same
language and which is substantially the same in content at a price reasonably
related to the price normally charged in India for works of the same standard
on the same or similar subject, the licence so granted shall be terminated:
Provided that no such termination shall take effect until after the expiry of
a period of three months from the date of service of a notice in the
prescribed manner on the person holding the licence by the owner of the right
of reproduction intimating the sale or distribution of the copies of the
editions of work as aforesaid: Provided further that any copies already
reproduced by the licensee before such termination takes effect may continue
to be sold or distributed until the copies already produced are exhausted.]
*[33. Registration of copyright society.—
(1) No person or association of persons shall, after coming into force of the
Copyright (Amendment) Act, 1994 commence or, carry on the business of issuing
or granting licences in respect of any work in which copyright subsists or in
respect of any other rights conferred by this Act except under or in
accordance with the registration granted under sub-section (3): Provided that
an owner of copyright shall, in his individual capacity, continue to have the
right to grant licences in respect of his own works consistent with his
obligations as a member of the registered copyright society: Provided further
that a performing rights society functioning in accordance with the provisions
of section 33 on the date immediately before the coming into force of the
Copyright (Amendment) Act, 1994 shall be deemed to be a copyright society for
the purposes of this Chapter and every such society shall get itself
registered within a period of one year from the date of commencement of the
Copyright (Amendment) Act, 1994.
(2) Any association of persons who fulfils such conditions as may be
prescribed may apply for permission to do the business specified in sub-
section (1) to the Registrar of Copyrights who shall submit the application to
the Central Government.
(3) The Central Government may, having regard to the interests of the authors
and other owners of rights under this Act, the interest and convenience of the
public and in particular of the groups of persons who are most likely to seek
licences in respect of the applicants, register such association of persons as
a copyright society subject to such conditions as may be prescribed: Provided
that the Central Government shall not ordinarily register more than one
copyright society to do business in respect of the same class of works.
(4) The Central Government may, if it is satisfied that a copyright society is
being managed in a manner detrimental to the interests of the owners of rights
concerned, cancel the registration of such society after such inquiry as may
be prescribed.
(5) If the Central Government is of the opinion that in the interest of the
owners of rights concerned, it is necessary so to do it may, by order suspend
the registration of such society pending inquiry for such period not exceeding
one year as may be specified in such order under sub-section (4) and that
Government shall appoint an administrator to discharge the functions of the
copyright society.]
*[34. Administration of rights of owner by copyright society.—
(1) Subject to such conditions as may be prescribed,—
(a) a copyright society may accept from an owner of rights exclusive
authorisation to administer any right in any work by issue of licences or
collection of licence fees or both; and
(b) an owner of rights shall have the right to withdraw such authorisation
without prejudice to the rights of the copyright society under any contract.
(2) It shall be competent for a copyright society to enter into agreement with
any foreign society or organisation administering rights corresponding to
rights under this Act, to entrust to such foreign society or organisation the
administration in any foreign country of rights administered by the said
copyright society in India, or for administering in India the rights
administered in a foreign country by such foreign society or organisation:
Provided that no such society or organisation shall permit any discrimination
in regard to the terms of licence or the distribution of fees collected
between rights in Indian and other works.
(3) Subject to such conditions as may be prescribed, a copyright society may—
(i) issue licences under section 30 in respect of any rights under this Act;
(ii) collect fees in pursuance of such licences;
(iii) distribute such fees among owners of rights after making deductions for
its own expenses;
(iv) perform any other functions consistent with the provisions of section 35.
]
*[34A. Payment of remunerations by copyright society.—
(1) If the Central Government is of the opinion that a copyright society for a
class of work is generally administering the rights of the owners of rights in
such work throughout India, it shall appoint the society for the purposes of
this section.
(2) The copyright society shall, subject to such rules as may be made in this
behalf, frame a scheme for determining the quantum of remuneration payable to
individual copyright owners having regard to the number of copies of the work
in circulation: Provided that such scheme shall restrict payment to the owners
of rights whose works have attained a level of circulation which the copyright
society considers reasonable. ]
*[35. Control over the copyright society by the owner of rights.—
(1) Every copyright society shall be subject to the collective control of the
owners of rights under this Act whose rights it administers (not being owners
of rights under this Act administered by a foreign society or organisation
referred to in sub-section (2) of section 34) and shall, in such manner as may
be prescribed,—
(a) obtain the approval of such owners of rights for its procedures of
collection and distribution of fees;
(b) obtain their approval for the utilisation of any amounts collected as fees
for any purpose other than distribution to the owner of rights; and
(c) provide to such owners regular, full and detailed information concerning
all its activities, in relation to the administration of their rights.
(2) All fees distributed among the owners of rights shall, as far as may be,
be distributed in proportion to the actual use of their works.]
*[36. Submission of returns and reports.—
(1) Every copyright society shall submit to the Registrar of Copyrights such
returns as may be prescribed.
(2) Any officer duly authorised by the Central Government in this behalf may
call for any report and also call for any records of any copyright society for
the purpose of satisfying himself that the fees collected by the society in
respect of rights administered by it are being utilised or distributed in
accordance with the provisions of this Act. ]
*[36A. Rights and liabilities of performing rights societies.—Nothing in this Chapter shall affect any rights or liabilities in any work in connection with a performing rights society which had accrued or were incurred on or before the day prior to the commencement of the Copyright (Amendment) Act, 1994, or any legal proceedings in respect of any such rights or liabilities pending on that day.]
1[37. Broadcast reproduction right.—
(1) Every broadcasting organisation shall have a special right to be known as
‘‘broadcast reproduction right’’ in respect of its broadcasts.2[37. Broadcast
reproduction right.—(1) Every broadcasting organisation shall have a special
right to be known as ‘‘broadcast reproduction right’’ in respect of its
broadcasts."
(2) The broadcast reproduction right shall subsist until twenty-five years
from the beginning of the calendar year next following the year in which the
broadcast is made.
(3) During the continuance of a broadcast reproduction right in relation to
any broadcast, any person who, without the licence of the owner of the right
does any of the following acts of the broadcast or any substantial part
thereof,—
(a) re-broadcasts the broadcast; or
(b) causes the broadcast to be heard or seen by the public on payment of any
charges; or
(c) makes any sound recording or visual recording of the broadcast; or
(d) makes any reproduction of such sound recording or visual recording where
such initial recording was done without licence or, where it was licensed, for
any purpose not envisaged by such licence; or
(e) sells or hires to the public, or offers for such sale or hire, any such
sound recording or visual recording referred to in clause (c) or clause (d),
shall, subject to the provisions of section 39, be deemed to have infringed
the broadcast reproduction right.]
1[38. Performer’s right.—
(1) Where any performer appears or engages in any performance, he shall have a
special right to be known as the “performer’s right” in relation to such
performance.1[38. Performer’s right.—(1) Where any performer appears or
engages in any performance, he shall have a special right to be known as the
“performer’s right” in relation to such performance."
(2) The performer’s right shall subsist until 2[fifty years] from the
beginning of the calendar year next following the year in which the
performance is made.
(3) During the continuance of a performer’s right in relation to any
performance, any person who, without the consent of the performer, does any of
the following acts in respect of the performance or any substantial part
thereof, namely:—
(a) makes a sound recording or visual recording of the performance; or
(b) reproduces a sound recording or visual recording of the performance, which
sound recording or visual recording was—
(i) made without the performer’s consent; or
(ii) made for purposes different from those for which the performer gave his
consent; or
(iii) made for purposes different from those referred to in section 39 from a
sound recording or visual recording which was made in accordance with section
39; or
(c) broadcasts the performance except where the broadcast is made from a sound
recording or visual recording other than one made in accordance with section
39, or is a re-broadcast by the same broadcasting organisation of an earlier
broadcast which did not infringe the performer’s right; or
(d) communicates the performance to the public otherwise than by broadcast,
except where such communication to the public is made from a sound recording
or a visual recording or a broadcast, shall, subject to the provisions of
section 39, be deemed to have infringed the performer’s right.
(4) Once a performer has consented to the incorporation of his performance in
a cinematograph film, the provisions of sub-sections (1), (2) and (3) shall
have no further application to such performance.]
1[38. Performer’s right.—
(1) Where any performer appears or engages in any performance, he shall have a
special right to be known as the “performer’s right” in relation to such
performance.1[38. Performer’s right.—(1) Where any performer appears or
engages in any performance, he shall have a special right to be known as the
“performer’s right” in relation to such performance."
(2) The performer’s right shall subsist until 2[fifty years] from the
beginning of the calendar year next following the year in which the
performance is made.
(3) During the continuance of a performer’s right in relation to any
performance, any person who, without the consent of the performer, does any of
the following acts in respect of the performance or any substantial part
thereof, namely:—
(a) makes a sound recording or visual recording of the performance; or
(b) reproduces a sound recording or visual recording of the performance, which
sound recording or visual recording was—
(i) made without the performer’s consent; or
(ii) made for purposes different from those for which the performer gave his
consent; or
(iii) made for purposes different from those referred to in section 39 from a
sound recording or visual recording which was made in accordance with section
39; or
(c) broadcasts the performance except where the broadcast is made from a sound
recording or visual recording other than one made in accordance with section
39, or is a re-broadcast by the same broadcasting organisation of an earlier
broadcast which did not infringe the performer’s right; or
(d) communicates the performance to the public otherwise than by broadcast,
except where such communication to the public is made from a sound recording
or a visual recording or a broadcast, shall, subject to the provisions of
section 39, be deemed to have infringed the performer’s right.
(4) Once a performer has consented to the incorporation of his performance in
a cinematograph film, the provisions of sub-sections (1), (2) and (3) shall
have no further application to such performance.]
1[39. Acts not infringing broadcast reproduction right or performer’s
right.—No broadcast reproduction right or performer’s right shall be deemed to
be infringed by—3[39. Acts not infringing broadcast reproduction right or
performer’s right.—No broadcast reproduction right or performer’s right shall
be deemed to be infringed by—"
(a) the making of any sound recording or visual recording for the private use
of the person making such recording, or solely for purposes of bona fide
teaching or research; or
(b) the use, consistent with fair dealing, of excerpts of a performance or of
a broadcast in the reporting of current events or for bona fide review,
teaching or research; or
(c) such other acts, with any necessary adaptations and modifications, which
do not constitute infringement of copyright under section 52. ]
33 [ 39A Other provisions applying to broadcast reproduction right and
performer's right. —Sections 18, 19, 30, 53, 55, 58, 64, 65 and 66 shall, with
any necessary adaptations and modifications, apply in relation to the
broadcast reproduction right in any broadcast and the performer's right in any
performance as they apply in relation to copyright in a work: Provided that
where copyright or performer's right subsists in respect of any work or
performance that has been broadcast, on licence to reproduce such broadcast
shall take effect without the consent of the owner of rights or performer, as
the case may be, or both of them.]
40. Power to extend copyright to foreign works.—The Central Government may, by order 34 published in the Official Gazette, direct that all or any provisions of this Act shall apply—
(a) to work first published in any territory outside India to which the order
relates in like manner as if they were first published within India; tc" (a)
to work first published in any territory outside India to which the order
relates in like manner as if they were first published within India;"
(b) to unpublished works, or any class thereof, the authors whereof were at
the time of the making of the work, subjects or citizens of a foreign country
to which the order relates, in like manner as if the authors were citizens of
India; tc" (b) to unpublished works, or any class thereof, the authors whereof
were at the time of the making of the work, subjects or citizens of a foreign
country to which the order relates, in like manner as if the authors were
citizens of India;"
(c) in respect of domicile in any territory outside India to which the order
relates in like manner as if such domicile were in India; tc" (c) in respect
of domicile in any territory outside India to which the order relates in like
manner as if such domicile were in India;"
(d) to any work of which the author was at the date of the first publication
thereof, or, in a case where the author was dead at that date, was at the time
of his death, a subject or citizen of a foreign country to which the order
relates in like manner as if the author was a citizen of India at that date or
time, tc" (d) to any work of which the author was at the date of the first
publication thereof, or, in a case where the author was dead at that date, was
at the time of his death, a subject or citizen of a foreign country to which
the order relates in like manner as if the author was a citizen of India at
that date or time," and thereupon, subject to the provisions of this Chapter
and of this order, this Act shall apply accordingly: Provided that—
(i) before making an order under this section in respect of any foreign
country (other than a country with which India has entered into a treaty or
which is a party to a convention relating to copyright to which India is also
a party), the Central Government shall be satisfied that foreign country has
made, or has undertaken to make, such provisions if any, as it appears to the
Central Government expedient to require for the protection in that country of
works entitled to copyright under the provisions of this Act; tc" (i) before
making an order under this section in respect of any foreign country (other
than a country with which India has entered into a treaty or which is a party
to a convention relating to copyright to which India is also a party), the
Central Government shall be satisfied that foreign country has made, or has
undertaken to make, such provisions if any, as it appears to the Central
Government expedient to require for the protection in that country of works
entitled to copyright under the provisions of this Act;"
(ii) the order may provide that provisions of this Act shall apply either
generally or in relation to such classes of works or such classes of cases as
may be specified in the order; tc" (ii) the order may provide that provisions
of this Act shall apply either generally or in relation to such classes of
works or such classes of cases as may be specified in the order;"
(iii) the order may provide that the term of copyright in India shall not
exceed that conferred by the law of the country to which the order relates;
tc" (iii) the order may provide that the term of copyright in India shall not
exceed that conferred by the law of the country to which the order relates;"
(iv) the order may provide that the enjoyment of the rights conferred by this
Act shall be subject to the accomplishment of such conditions and formalities,
if any, as may be prescribed by the order; tc" (iv) the order may provide that
the enjoyment of the rights conferred by this Act shall be subject to the
accomplishment of such conditions and formalities, if any, as may be
prescribed by the order;"
(v) in applying the provisions of this Act as to ownership of copyright, the
order may make such exception and modifications as appear necessary, having
regard to the law of the foreign country; tc" (v) in applying the provisions
of this Act as to ownership of copyright, the order may make such exception
and modifications as appear necessary, having regard to the law of the foreign
country;"
(vi) the order may provide that this Act or any part thereof shall not apply
to works made before the commencement of the order or that this Act or any
part thereof shall not apply to works first published before the commencement
of the order.
1[40A. Power of Central Government to apply Chapter VIII to broadcasting
organisations and performers in certain other countries.—If the Central
Government is satisfied that a foreign country (other than a country with
which India has entered into a treaty or which is a party to a convention
relating to rights of broadcasting organisations and performers to which India
is also a party) has made or has undertaken to make such provisions, if any,
as it appears to the Central Government expedient to require, for the
protection in that foreign country, of the rights of broadcasting
organisations and performers as is available under this Act, it may, by order
published in the Official Gazette, direct that the provisions of Chapter VIII
shall apply—1[40A. Power of Central Government to apply Chapter VIII to
broadcasting organisations and performers in certain other countries.—If the
Central Government is satisfied that a foreign country (other than a country
with which India has entered into a treaty or which is a party to a convention
relating to rights of broadcasting organisations and performers to which India
is also a party) has made or has undertaken to make such provisions, if any,
as it appears to the Central Government expedient to require, for the
protection in that foreign country, of the rights of broadcasting
organisations and performers as is available under this Act, it may, by order
published in the Official Gazette, direct that the provisions of Chapter VIII
shall apply—"
(a) to broadcasting organisations whose headquarters is situated in a country
to which the order relates or, the broadcast was transmitted from a
transmitter situated in a country to which the order relates as if the
headquarters of such organisation were situated in India or such broadcast
were made from India;
(b) to performances that took place outside India to which the order relates
in like manner as if they took place in India;
(c) to performances that are incorporated in a sound recording published in a
country to which the order relates as if it was published in India;
(d) to performances not fixed on a sound recording broadcast by a broadcasting
organisation the headquarters of which is located in a coutry to which the
order relates or where the broadcast is transmitted from a transmitter which
is situated in a country to which the order relates as if the headquarters of
such organisation were situated in India or such broadcast were made from
India.
(2) Every order made under sub-section (1) may provide that—
(i) the provisions of Chapter VIII shall apply either generally or in relation
to such class or classes of broadcasts or performances or such other class or
classes of cases as may be specified in the order;
(ii) the term of the rights of broadcasting organisations and performers in
India shall not exceed such term as is conferred by the law of the country to
which the order relates;
(iii) the enjoyment of the rights conferred by Chapter VIII shall be subject
to the accomplishment of such conditions and formalities, if any, as may be
specified in that order;
(iv) Chapter VIII or any part thereof shall not apply to broadcast and
performances made before the commencement of the order or that Chapter VIII or
any part thereof shall not apply to broadcasts and performances broadcast or
performed before the commencement of the order;
(v) in case of ownership of rights of broadcasting organisations and
performers, the provisions of Chapter VIII shall apply with such exceptions
and modifications as the Central Government may, having regard to the law of
the foreign country, consider necessary.]
41. Provisions as to works of certain international organisations.—
(1) Where—
(a) any work is made or first published by or under the directions or control
of any organisation to which this section applies, and
(b) there would, apart from this section, be no copyright in the work in India
at the time of the making or, as the case may be, of the first publication
thereof, and
(c) either—
(i) the work is published as aforesaid in pursuance of an agreement in that
behalf with the author, being an agreement which does not reserve to the
author the copyright, if any, in the work, or
(ii) under section 17 any copyright in the work would belong to the
organisation, there shall, by virtue of this section, be copyright in the work
throughout India.
(2) Any organisation to which this section applies which at the material time
had not the legal capacity of a body corporate shall have and be deemed at all
material times to have had the legal capacity of a body corporate for the
purpose of holding, dealing with, and enforcing copyright and in connection
with all legal proceedings relating to copyright.
(3) The organisations to which this section applies are such organisations as
the Central Government may, by order1 published in the Official Gazette,
declare to be organisations of which one or more sovereign powers or the
Government or Governments thereof are members to which it is expedient that
this section shall apply.
42. Power to restrict rights in works of foreign authors first published in India.—If it appears to the Central Government that a foreign country does not give or has not undertaken to give adequate protection to the works of Indian authors, the Central Government may, by order published in the Official Gazette, direct that such of the provisions of this Act as confer copyright on works first published in India shall not apply to works, published after the date specified in the order, the authors whereof are subjects or citizens of such foreign country and are not domiciled in India, and thereupon those provisions shall not apply to such works.
1[42A. Power to restrict rights of foreign broadcasting organisations and
performers.—If it appears to the Central Government that a foreign country
does not give or has not undertaken to give adequate protection to rights of
broadcasting organisations or performers, the Central Government may, by order
published in the Official Gazette, direct that such of the provisions of this
Act as confer right to broadcasting organisations or performers, as the case
may be, shall not apply to broadcasting organisations or performers whereof
are based on incorporated in such foreign country or are subjects or citizens
of such foreign country and are not incorporated or domiciled in India, and
thereupon those provisions shall not apply to such broadcasting organisations
or performers.]
43. Orders under this Chapter to be laid before Parliament.—Every order made by the Central Government under this Chapter shall, as soon as may be after it is made, be laid before both Houses of Parliament and shall be subject to such modifications as Parliament may make during the session in which it is so laid or the session immediately following.
44. Register of Copyrights.—There shall be kept at the Copyright Office a register in the prescribed form to be called the Register of Copyrights in which may be entered the names or titles of works and the names and addresses of authors, publishers and owners of copyright and such other particulars as may be prescribed.
45. Entries in register of Copyrights.—
(1) The author or publisher of, or the owner of or other person interested in
the copyright in, any work may make an application in the prescribed form
accompanied by the prescribed fee to the Registrar of Copyrights for entering
particulars of the work in the Register of Copyrights: 1[Provided that in
respect of an artistic work which is used or is capable of being used in
relation to any goods, the application shall include a statement to that
effect and shall be accompanied by a certificate from the Registrar of Trade
Marks referred to in section 4 of the Trade and Merchandise Marks Act, 1958
(43 of 1958), to the effect that no trade mark identical with or deceptively
similar to such artistic work has been registered under that Act in the name
of, or that no application has been made under that Act for such registration
by, any person other than the applicant.]
(2) On receipt of an application in respect of any work under sub-section (1),
the Registrar of Copyrights may, after holding such inquiry as he may deem
fit, enter the particulars of the work in the Register of Copyrights.
46. Indexes.—There shall be also kept at the Copyright Office such indexes of the Register of Copyrights as may be prescribed.
47. Form and inspection of register.—The Register of Copyrights and indexes thereof kept under this Act shall at all reasonable times be open to inspection, and any person shall be entitled to take copies of, or make extracts from, such register or indexes on payment of such fee and subject to such conditions as may be prescribed.
48. Register of Copyrights to be prima facie evidence of particulars entered therein.—The Register of Copyrights shall be prima facie evidence of the particulars entered therein and documents purporting to be copies of any entries therein, or extracts therefrom certified by the Registrar of Copyrights and sealed with the seal of the Copyright Office shall be admissible in evidence in all courts without further proof or production of the original.
49. Correction of entries in the Register of Copyrights.—The Registrar of Copyrights may, in the prescribed cases and subject to the prescribed conditions, amend or alter the Register of Copyrights by—
(a) correcting any error in any name, address or particulars; or
(b) correcting any other error which may have arisen therein by accidental
slip or omission.
50. Rectification of Register by Copyright Board.—The Copyright Board, on application of the Registrar of Copyrights or of any person aggrieved, shall order the rectification of the Registers of Copyrights by—
(a) the making of any entry wrongly omitted to the register, or
(b) the expunging of any entry wrongly made in, or remaining on, the register,
or
(c) the correction of any error or defect in the register.
1[50A. Entries in the Register of Copyrights, etc., to be published.—Every
entry made in the Register of Copyrights or the particulars of any work
entered under section 45, the correction of every entry made in such register
under section 49, and every rectification ordered under section 50 shall be
published by the Registrar of Copyrights in the Official Gazette or in such
other manner as he may deem fit.]
51. When copyright infringed.—Copyright in a work shall be deemed to be infringed—
(a) when any person, without a licence granted by the owner of the copyright
or the Registrar of Copyrights under this Act or in contravention of the
conditions of a licence so granted or of any condition imposed by a competent
authority under this Act—
(i) does anything, the exclusive right to do which is by this Act conferred
upon the owner of the copyright, or 1[(ii) permits for profit any place to be
used for the communication of the work to the public where such communication
constitutes an infringement of the copyright in the work, unless he was not
aware and had no reasonable ground for believing that such communication to
the public would be an infringement of copyright; or] 1[(ii) permits for
profit any place to be used for the communication of the work to the public
where such communication constitutes an infringement of the copyright in the
work, unless he was not aware and had no reasonable ground for believing that
such communication to the public would be an infringement of copyright; or]"
(b) when any person—
(i) makes for sale or hire, or sells or lets for hire, or by way of trade
displays or offers for sale or hire, or
(ii) distributes either for the purpose of trade or to such an extent as to
affect prejudicially the owner of the copyright, or
(iii) by way of trade exhibits in public, or
(iv) imports 2[***] into India, 2[***] into India," any infringing copies of
the work: 3[Provided that nothing in sub-clause (iv) shall apply to the import
of one copy of any work, for the private and domestic use of the importer.]
Explanation.—For the purposes of this section, the reproduction of a literary,
dramatic, musical or artistic work in the form of a cinematograph film shall
be deemed to be an “infringing copy”.
52. Certain acts not to be infringement of copyright.—
(1) The following acts shall not constitute an infringement of copyright,
namely:—
(a) a fair dealing with a literary, dramatic, musical or artistic work 1[not
being a computer programme] for the purposes of— 1[(i) Private use including
research;]
(ii) criticism or review, whether of that work or of any other work; 2[(aa)
the making of copies or adaptation of a computer programme by the lawful
possessor of a copy of such computer programme from such copy— 1[(aa) the
making of copies or adaptation of a computer programme by the lawful possessor
of a copy of such computer programme from such copy—"
(i) in order to utilise the computer programme for the purpose for which it
was supplied; or
(ii) to make back-up copies purely as a temporary protection against loss,
destruction or damage in order only to utilise the computer programme for the
purpose for which it was supplied;] 3[(ab) the doing of any act necessary to
obtain information essential for operating inter-operability of an
independently created computer programme with other programmes by a lawful
possessor of a computer programme provided that such information is not
otherwise readily available; 3[(ab) the doing of any act necessary to obtain
information essential for operating inter-operability of an independently
created computer programme with other programmes by a lawful possessor of a
computer programme provided that such information is not otherwise readily
available;"
(ac) the observation, study or test of functioning of the computer programme
in order to determine the ideas and principles which underline any elements of
the programme while performing such acts necessary for the functions for which
the computer programme was supplied;
(ad) the making of copies or adaption of the computer programme from a
personally legally obtained copy for non-commercial personal use;]
(b) a fair dealing with a literary, dramatic, musical or artistic work for the
purpose of reporting current events—
(i) in a newspaper, magazine or similar periodical; or
(ii) by 4[broadcast] or in a cinematograph film or by means of photographs.
4[broadcast] or in a cinematograph film or by means of photographs."
5[Explanation.—The publication of a compilation of addresses or speeches
delivered in public is not a fair dealing of such work within the meaning of
this clause;]
(c) the reproduction of a literary, dramatic, musical or artistic work for the
purpose of a judicial proceeding or for the purpose of a report of a judicial
proceeding;
(d) the reproduction or publication of a literary, dramatic, musical or
artistic work in any work prepared by the Secretariat of a Legislature or,
where the Legislature consists of two Houses, by the Secretariat of either
House of the Legislature, exclusively for the use of the members of that
Legislature;
(e) the reproduction of any literary, dramatic or musical work in a certified
copy made or supplied in accordance with any law for the time being in force;
(f) the reading or recitation in public of any reasonable extract from a
published literary or dramatic work;
(g) the publication in a collection, mainly composed of non-copyright matter,
bona fide intended for the use of educational institutions, and so described
in the title and in any advertisement issued by or on behalf of the publisher,
of short passages from published literary or dramatic works, not themselves
published for the use of educational institutions, in which copyright
subsists: Provided that not more than two such passages from works by the same
author are published by the same publisher during any period of five years.
Explanation.—In the case of a work of joint authorship, references in this
clause to passage from works shall include references to passages from works
by any one or more of the authors of those passages or by any one or more of
those authors in collaboration with any other person;
(h) the reproduction of a literary, dramatic, musical or artistic work—
(i) by a teacher or a pupil in the course of instruction; or
(ii) as part of the questions to be answered in an examination; or
(iii) in answers, to such questions;
(i) the performance, in the course of the activities of an educational
institution, of a literary, dramatic or musical work by the staff and student
of the institution, or of a cinematograph film or a 6[sound recording], if the
audience is limited to such staff and students, the parents and guardians of
the students and persons directly connected with the activities of the
institution 7[or the communication to such an audience of a cinematograph film
or sound recording]; 8[(j) the making of sound recordings in respect of any
literary, dramatic or musical work, if—
(i) sound recordings of that work have been made by or with the licence or
consent of the owner of the right in the work;
(ii) the person making the sound recordings has given a notice of his
intention to make the sound recordings, has provided copies of all covers or
labels with which the sound recordings are to be sold, and has paid in the
prescribed manner to the owner of rights in the work royalties in respect of
all such sound recordings to be made by him, at the rate fixed by the
Copyright Board in this behalf: Provided that—
(i) no alterations shall be made which have not been made previously by or
with the consent of the owner of rights, or which are not reasonably necessary
for the adaptation of the work for the purpose of making the sound recordings;
(ii) the sound recordings shall not be issued in any form of packaging or with
any label which is likely to mislead or confuse the public as to their
identity;
(iii) no such sound recording shall be made until the expiration of two
calendar years after the end of the year in which the first recording of the
work was made; and
(iv) the person making such sound recordings shall allow the owner of rights
or his duly authorised agent or representative to inspect all records and
books of account relating to such sound recording: Provided further that if on
a complaint brought before the Copyright Board to the effect that the owner of
rights has not been paid in full for any sound recordings purporting to be
made in pursuance of this clause, the Copyright Board is, prima facie
satisfied that the complaint is genuine, it may pass an order ex parte
directing the person making the sound recording to cease from making further
copies and, after holding such inquiry as it considers necessary, make such
further order as it may deem fit, including an order for payment of royalty;
(k) the causing of a recording to be heard in public by utilising it,—
(i) in an enclosed room or hall meant for the common use of residents in any
residential premises (not being a hotel or similar commercial establishment)
as part of the amenities provided exclusively or mainly for residents therein;
or
(ii) as part of the activities of a club or similar organisation which is not
established or conducted for profit;]
(l) the performance of a literary, dramatic or musical work by an amateur club
or society, if the performance is given to a non-paying audience, or for the
benefit of a religious institution;
(m) the reproduction in a newspaper, magazine or other periodical of an
article on current economic, political, social or religious topics, unless the
author of such article has expressly reserved to himself the right of such
reproduction;
(n) the publication in a newspaper, magazine or other periodical of a report
of a lecture delivered in public;
(o) the making of not more than three copies of a book (including a pamphlet,
sheet of music, map, chart or plan) by or under the direction of the person in
charge of a public library for the use of the library if such book is not
available for sale in India;
(p) the reproduction, for the purpose of research or private study, or with a
view to publication, of an unpublished literary, dramatic or musical works
kept in a library, museum or other institution to which the public has access:
Provided that where the identity of the author of any such work or, in the
case of a work of joint authorship, of any of the authors is known to the
library, museum or other institution, as the case may be, the provisions of
this clause shall apply only if such reproduction is made at a time more than
9[sixty years] from the date of the death of the author or, in the case of a
work of joint authorship, from the death of the author whose identity is known
or, if the identity of more authors than one is known from the death of such
of those authors who died last;
(q) the reproduction or publication of—
(i) any matter which has been published in any Official Gazette except an Act
of a Legislature;
(ii) any Act of a Legislature subject to the condition that such Act is
reproduced or published together with any commentary thereon or any other
original matter;
(iii) the report of any committee, commission, council, board or other like
body appointed by the Legislature, unless the reproduction or publication of
such report is prohibited by the Government;
(iv) any judgment or order of a court, Tribunal or other judicial authority,
unless the reproduction or publication of such judgment or order is prohibited
by the court, the Tribunal or other judicial authority, as the case may be;
(r) the production or publication of a translation in any Indian language of
an Act of a Legislature and of any rules or orders made thereunder—
(i) if no translation of such Act or rules or orders in that language has
previously been produced or published by the Government; or
(ii) where a translation of such Act or rules or orders in that language has
been produced or published by the Government, if the translation is not
available for sale to the public: Provided that such translation contains a
statement at a prominent place to the effect that the translation has not been
authorised or accepted as authentic by the Government; 10[(s) the making or
publishing of a painting, drawing, engraving or photograph of a work of
architecture or the display of a work of architecture;]
(t) the making or publishing of a painting, drawing, engraving or photograph
of a sculpture, or other artistic work falling under sub-clause (iii) of
clause (c) of section 2, if such work is permanently situate in a public place
or any premises to which the public has access;
(u) the inclusion in a cinematograph film of—
(i) any artistic work permanently situate in a public place or any premises to
which the public has access; or
(ii) any other artistic work, if such inclusion is only by way of background
or is otherwise incidental to the principal matters represented in the film;
(v) the use by the author of an artistic work, where the author of such work
is not the owner of the copyright therein, of any would, cast, sketch, plan,
model or study made by him for the purpose of the work: Provided that he does
not thereby repeat or imitate the main design of the work; 11[***]
(x) the reconstruction of a building or structure in accordance with the
architectural drawings or plans by reference to which the building or
structure was originally constructed: Provided that the original construction
was made with the consent or licence of the owner of the copyright in such
drawings and plans;
(y) in relation to a literary, dramatic or musical work recorded or reproduced
in any cinematograph film, the exhibition of such film after the expiration of
the term of copyright therein: Provided that the provisions of sub-clause (ii)
of clause (a), sub-clause (i) of clause (b) and clauses (d), (f), (g), (m) and
(p) shall not apply as respects any act unless that act is accompanied by an
acknowledgement—
(i) identifying the work by its title or other description; and
(ii) unless the work is anonymous or the author of the work has previously
agreed or required that no acknowledgement of his name should be made, also
identifying the author; 12[(z) the making of an ephemeral recording, by a
broadcasting organisation using its own facilities for its own broadcast by a
broadcasting organisation of a work which it has the right to broadcast; and
the retention of such recording for achival purposes on the ground of its
exceptional documentary character;
(za) the performance of a literary, dramatic or musical work or the
communication to the public of such work or of a sound recording in the course
of any bona fide religious ceremony or an official ceremony held by the
Central Government or the State Government or any local authority.
Explanation.—For the purpose of this clause, religious ceremony including a
marriage procession and other social festivities associated with a marriage.]
(2) The provisions of sub-section (1) shall apply to the doing of any act in
relation to the translation of a literary, dramatic or musical work or the
adaptation of a literary, dramatic, musical or artistic work as they apply in
relation to the work itself.
1[52A. Particulars to be included in 2[sound recording] and video films.—
(1) No person shall publish a 2[sound recording] in respect of any work unless
the following particulars are displayed on the 2[sound recording] and on any
container thereof, namely:—
(a) the name and address of the person who has made the 2[sound recording];
2[sound recording];"
(b) the name and address of the owner of the copyright in such work; and
(c) the year of its first publication.
(2) No person shall publish a video film in respect of any work unless the
following particulars are displayed in the video film, when exhibited, and on
the video cassette or other container thereof, namely:—
(a) if such work is cinematograph film required to be certified for exhibition
under the provisions of the Cinematograph Act, 1952 (37 of 1952), a copy of
the certificate granted by the Board of Film Certification under section 5A of
that Act respect of such work;
(b) the name and address of the person who has made the video film and a
declaration by him that he obtained the necessary licence or consent from the
owner of the copyright in such work of making such video film; and
(c) the name and address of the owner for the copyright in such work.]
1[52B. Accounts and audit.—
(1) Every copyright society appointed under section 34A shall maintain proper
accounts and other relevant records and prepare an annual statement of
accounts, in such form and in such manner as may be prescribed by the Central
Government in consultation with the Comptroller and Auditor General of
India.3[52B. Accounts and audit.—(1) Every copyright society appointed under
section 34A shall maintain proper accounts and other relevant records and
prepare an annual statement of accounts, in such form and in such manner as
may be prescribed by the Central Government in consultation with the
Comptroller and Auditor General of India."
(2) The accounts of each of the copyright societies in relation to the
payments received from the Central Government shall be audited by the
Comptroller and Auditor General of India at such intervals as may be specified
by him and any expenditure incurred in connection with such audit shall be
payable by the copyright society to the Comptroller and Auditor General.
(3) The Comptroller and Auditor General of India or any other person appointed
by him in connection with the audit of the accounts of the copyright society
referred to in sub-section (2) shall have the same rights and privileges and
authority in connection with such audit as the Comptroller and Auditor General
has in connection with the audit of the Government accounts and, in
particular, shall have the right to demand the production of books, accounts
and other documents and papers and to inspect any of the offices of the
copyright society for the purpose only of such audit.
(4) The accounts of each of the copyright societies as certified by the
Comptroller and Auditor General of India or any other person appointed by him
in this behalf together with the audit report thereon shall be forwarded
annually to the Central Government and that Government shall cause the same to
be laid before each House of Parliament.]
53. Importation of infringing copies.—
(1) The Registrar of Copyrights, on application by the owner of the copyright
in any work or by his duly authorised agent and on payment of the prescribed
fee, may, after making such inquiry as he deems fit, order that copies made
out of India of the work which if made in India would infringe copyright shall
not be imported.
(2) Subject to any rules made under this Act, the Registrar of Copyrights or
any person authorised by him in this behalf may enter any ship, dock or
premises where any such copies as are referred to in sub-section (1) may be
found and may examine such copies.
(3) All copies to which any order made under sub-section (1) applies shall be
deemed to be goods of which the import had been prohibited or restricted
1[under section 11 of the Customs Act, 1962 (51 of 1962),] and all the
provisions of the Act shall have effect accordingly: Provided that all such
copies confiscated under the provisions of the said Act shall not vest in the
Government but shall be delivered to the owner of the copyright in the work.
1[53A. Resale share right in original copies.—
(1) In the case of resale for a price exceeding ten thousand rupees, to the
original copy of a painting, sculpture or drawing, or of the original
manuscript of a literary or dramatic work or musical work, the author of such
work if he was the first owner of rights under section 17 or his legal heirs
shall, notwithstanding any assignment of copyright in such work, have a right
to share in the resale price of such original copy or manuscript in accordance
with the provisions of this section:2[53A. Resale share right in original
copies.—(1) In the case of resale for a price exceeding ten thousand rupees,
to the original copy of a painting, sculpture or drawing, or of the original
manuscript of a literary or dramatic work or musical work, the author of such
work if he was the first owner of rights under section 17 or his legal heirs
shall, notwithstanding any assignment of copyright in such work, have a right
to share in the resale price of such original copy or manuscript in accordance
with the provisions of this section\:" Provided that such right shall cease to
exist on the expiration of the term of copyright in the work.
(2) The share referred to in sub-section (1) shall be such as the Copyright
Board may fix and the decision of the Copyright Board in this behalf shall be
final: Provided that the Copyright Board may fix different shares for
different classes of work: Provided further that in no case shall the share
exceed ten percent, of the resale price.
(3) If any dispute arises regarding the right conferred by this section, it
shall be referred to the Copyright Board whose decision shall be final.]
54. Definition.—For the purposes of this Chapter, unless the context otherwise requires, the expression “owner of copyright” shall include—
(a) an exclusive licensee;
(b) in the case of an anonymous or pseudonymous literary, dramatic, musical or
artistic work, the publisher of the work, until the identity of the author or,
in the case of an anonymous work of joint authorship, or a work of joint
authorship published under names all of which are pseudonyms, the identity of
any of the authors, is disclosed publicly by the author and the publisher or
is otherwise to the satisfaction of the Copyright Board by that author or his
legal representatives.
55. Civil remedies for infringement of copyright.—
(1) Where copyright in any work has been infringed, the owner of the copyright
shall, except as otherwise provided by this Act, be entitled to all such
remedies by way of injunction, damages, accounts and otherwise as are or may
be conferred by law for the infringement of a right: Provided that if the
defendant proves that at the date of the infringement he was not aware and had
no reasonable ground for believing that copyright subsisted in the work, the
plaintiff shall not be entitled to any remedy other than an injunction in
respect of the infringement and a decree for the whole or part of the profits
made by the defendant by the sale of the infringing copies as the court may in
the circumstances deem reasonable.
(2) Where, in the case of a literary, dramatic, musical or artistic work, a
name purporting to be that to the author or the publisher, as the case may be,
appears on copies of the work published, or, in the case of an artistic work,
appeared on the work when it was made, the person whose name so appears or
appeared shall, in any proceeding in respect of infringement of copyright in
such work, be presumed, unless the contrary is proved, to be the author or the
publisher of the work, as the case may be.
(3) The costs of all parties in any proceedings in respect of the infringement
of copyright shall be in the discretion of the court.
56. Protection of separate rights.—Subject to the provisions of this Act, where the several rights comprising the copyright in any work are owned by different persons, the owner of any such right shall, to the extent of that right, be entitled to the remedies provided by this Act and may individually enforce such right by means of any suit, action or other proceeding without making the owner of any other right party to such suit, action or proceeding.
57. Author’s special right.—1[
(1) Independently of the author’s copyright and even after the assignment
either wholly or partially of the said copyright, the author of a work shall
have the right——1[(1) Independently of the author’s copyright and even after
the assignment either wholly or partially of the said copyright, the author of
a work shall have the right—"
(a) to claim authorship of the work; and
(b) to restrain or claim damages in respect of any distortion, mutilation,
modification or other act in relation to the said work which is done before
the expiration of the term of copyright if such distortion, mutilation,
modification or other act would be prejudicial to his honour or reputation:
Provided that the author shall not have any right to restrain of claim damages
in respect of any adaptation of a computer programme to which clause (aa) of
sub-section (1) of section 52 applies. Explanation.—Failure to display a work
or to display it to the satisfaction of the author shall not be deemed to be
an infringement of the rights conferred by this section.]
(2) The right conferred upon an author of a work by sub-section (1), other
than the right to claim authorship of the work, may be exercised by the legal
representatives of the author.
57. Author’s special right.—1[
(1) Independently of the author’s copyright and even after the assignment
either wholly or partially of the said copyright, the author of a work shall
have the right——1[(1) Independently of the author’s copyright and even after
the assignment either wholly or partially of the said copyright, the author of
a work shall have the right—"
(a) to claim authorship of the work; and
(b) to restrain or claim damages in respect of any distortion, mutilation,
modification or other act in relation to the said work which is done before
the expiration of the term of copyright if such distortion, mutilation,
modification or other act would be prejudicial to his honour or reputation:
Provided that the author shall not have any right to restrain of claim damages
in respect of any adaptation of a computer programme to which clause (aa) of
sub-section (1) of section 52 applies. Explanation.—Failure to display a work
or to display it to the satisfaction of the author shall not be deemed to be
an infringement of the rights conferred by this section.]
(2) The right conferred upon an author of a work by sub-section (1), other
than the right to claim authorship of the work, may be exercised by the legal
representatives of the author.
58. Rights of owner against persons possessing or dealing with infringing copies.— All infringing copies of any work in which copyright subsists, and all plates used or intended to be used for the production of such infringing copies, shall be deemed to be the property of the owner of the copyright, who accordingly may take proceedings for the recovery of possession thereof or in respect of the conversion thereof: Provided that the owner of the copyright shall not be entitled to any remedy in respect of the conversion of any infringing copies if the opponent proves—
(a) that he was not aware and had no reasonable ground to believe that
copyright subsisted in the work of which such copies are alleged to be
infringing copies; or
(b) that he had reasonable grounds for believing that such copies or plates do
not involve infringement of the copyright in any work.
59. Restriction on remedies in the case of works of architecture.—
(1) Notwithstanding anything contained in 1[the Specific Relief Act, 1963 (47
of 1963)], where the construction of a building or other structure which
infringes or which, if completed, would infringe the copyright in some other
work has been commenced, the owner of the copyright shall not be entitled to
obtain an injunction to restrain the construction of such building or
structure or to order its demolition.—(1) Notwithstanding anything contained
in 1[the Specific Relief Act, 1963 (47 of 1963)], where the construction of a
building or other structure which infringes or which, if completed, would
infringe the copyright in some other work has been commenced, the owner of the
copyright shall not be entitled to obtain an injunction to restrain the
construction of such building or structure or to order its demolition."
(2) Nothing in section 58 shall apply in respect of the construction of a
building or other structure which infringes or which, if completed, would
infringe the copyright in some other work.
60. Remedy in the case of groundless threat of legal proceedings.—Where any person claiming to be the owner of copyright in any work, by circulars, advertisements or otherwise, threatens any other person with any legal proceedings or liability in respect of an alleged infringement of the copyright, any person aggrieved thereby may, notwithstanding anything contained 1[in section 34 of the Specific Relief Act, 1963 (47 of 1963)], institute a declaratory suit that the alleged infringement to which the threats related was not in fact an infringement of any legal rights of the person making such threats and may in any such suit——Where any person claiming to be the owner of copyright in any work, by circulars, advertisements or otherwise, threatens any other person with any legal proceedings or liability in respect of an alleged infringement of the copyright, any person aggrieved thereby may, notwithstanding anything contained 2[in section 34 of the Specific Relief Act, 1963 (47 of 1963)], institute a declaratory suit that the alleged infringement to which the threats related was not in fact an infringement of any legal rights of the person making such threats and may in any such suit—"
(a) obtain an injunction against the continuance of such threats; and
(b) recover such damages, if any, as he has sustained by reason of such
threats: Provided that this section does not apply if the person making such
threats, with due diligence, commences and prosecutes an action for
infringement of the copyright claimed by him.
61. Owners of copyright to be party to the proceeding.—
(1) In every civil suit or other proceeding regarding infringement of
copyright instituted by an exclusive licensee, the owner of the copyright
shall, unless the court otherwise directs, be made a defendant and where such
owner is made a defendant, he shall have the right to dispute the claim of the
exclusive licensee.
(2) Where any civil suit or other proceeding regarding infringement of
copyright instituted by an exclusive licensee is successful, no fresh suit or
other proceeding in respect of the same cause of action shall lie at the
instance of the owner of the copyright.
62. Jurisdiction of court over matters arising under this Chapter.—
(1) Every suit or other civil proceeding arising under this Chapter in respect
of the infringement of copyright in any work or the infringement of any other
right conferred by this Act shall be instituted in the district court having
jurisdiction.
(2) For the purpose of sub-section (1), a “district court having jurisdiction”
shall, notwithstanding anything contained in the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908
(5 of 1908), or any other law for the time being in force, include a district
court within the local limits of whose jurisdiction, at the time of the
institution of the suit or other proceeding, the person instituting the suit
or other proceeding or, where there are more than one such persons, any of
them actually and voluntarily resides or carries on business or personally
works for gain.
63. Offence of infringement of copyright or other rights conferred by this Act.—Any person who knowingly infringes or abets the infringement of—
(a) the copyright in a work, or
(b) any other right conferred by this Act, 1[except the right conferred by
section 53A] 1[except the right conferred by section 53A]" 2[shall be
punishable with imprisonment for a term which shall not be less than six
months but which may extend to three years and with fine which shall not be
less than fifty thousand rupees but which may extend to two lakh rupees:
Provided that 3[where the infringement has not been made for gain in the
course of trade or business] the court may, for adequate and special reasons
to be mentioned in the judgment, impose a sentence of imprisonment for a term
of less than six months or a fine of less than fifty thousand rupees.]
Explanation.—Construction of a building or other structure which infringes or
which, if completed, would infringe the copyright in some other work shall not
be an offence under this section.
1[63A. Enhanced penalty on second and subsequent convictions.—Whoever having
already been convicted of an offence under section 63 is again convicted of
any such offence shall be punishable for the second and for every subsequent
offence, with imprisonment for a term which shall not be less than one year
but which may extend to three years and with fine which shall not be less than
one lakh rupees but which may extend to two lakhs rupees:2[63A. Enhanced
penalty on second and subsequent convictions.—Whoever having already been
convicted of an offence under section 63 is again convicted of any such
offence shall be punishable for the second and for every subsequent offence,
with imprisonment for a term which shall not be less than one year but which
may extend to three years and with fine which shall not be less than one lakh
rupees but which may extend to two lakhs rupees\:" Provided that 2[where the
infringement has not been made for gain in the course of trade or business]
the court may, for adequate and special reasons to be mentioned in the
judgment, impose a sentence of imprisonment for a term of less than one year
or a fine of less than one lakh rupees: Provided further that for the purposes
of this section, no cognizance shall be taken of any conviction made before
the commencement of the Copyright (Amendment) Act, 1984 (65 of 1984).]
1[63B. Knowing use of infringing copy of computer programme to be an
offence.—Any person who knowingly makes use on a computer of an infringing
copy of a computer programme shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term
which shall not be less than seven days but which may extend to three years
and with fine which shall not be less than fifty thousand rupees but which may
extend to two lakh rupees:4[63B. Knowing use of infringing copy of computer
programme to be an offence.—Any person who knowingly makes use on a computer
of an infringing copy of a computer programme shall be punishable with
imprisonment for a term which shall not be less than seven days but which may
extend to three years and with fine which shall not be less than fifty
thousand rupees but which may extend to two lakh rupees\:" Provided that where
the computer programme has not been used for gain or in the course of trade or
business, the court may, for adequate and special reasons to be mentioned in
the judgment, not impose any sentence of imprisonment and may impose a fine
which may extend to fifty thousand rupees.]
64. Power of police to seize infringing copies.—1[
(1) Any police officer, not below the rank of a sub-inspector, may, if he is
satisfied that an offence under section 63 in respect of the infringement of
copyright in any work has been, is being, or is likely to be, committed, seize
without warrant, all copies of the work, and all plates used for the purpose
of making infringing copies of the work, wherever found, and all copies and
plates so seized shall, as soon as practicable, be produced before a
Magistrate.]—5[(1) Any police officer, not below the rank of a sub-inspector,
may, if he is satisfied that an offence under section 63 in respect of the
infringement of copyright in any work has been, is being, or is likely to be,
committed, seize without warrant, all copies of the work, and all plates used
for the purpose of making infringing copies of the work, wherever found, and
all copies and plates so seized shall, as soon as practicable, be produced
before a Magistrate.]"
(2) Any person having an interest in any copies of a work 2[, or plates]
seized under sub-section (1) may, within fifteen days of such seizure, make an
application to the magistrate for such copies 2[or plates] being restored to
him and the Magistrate, after hearing the applicant and the complainant and
making such further inquiry as may be necessary, shall make such order on the
application as he may deem fit.
65. Possession of plates for purpose of making infringing copies.—Any person who knowingly makes, or has in his possession, any plate for the purpose of making infringing copies of any work in which copyright subsists shall be punishable with imprisonment which may extend to 1[two years and shall also be liable to fine].—Any person who knowingly makes, or has in his possession, any plate for the purpose of making infringing copies of any work in which copyright subsists shall be punishable with imprisonment which may extend to 2[two years and shall also be liable to fine]."
66. Disposal of infringing copies or plates for purpose of making infringing copies.—The court trying any offence under this Act may, whether the alleged offender is convicted or not, order that all copies of the work or all plates in the possession of the alleged offender, which appear to it to be infringing copies, or plates for the purpose of making infringing copies, be delivered up to the owner of the copyright.
67. Penalty for making false entries in register, etc., for producing or tendering false entries.—Any person who,—
(a) makes or causes to be made a false entry in the Register of Copyright kept
under this Act, or
(b) makes or causes to be made a writing falsely purporting to be a copy of
any entry in such register, or
(c) produces or tenders or causes to be produced or tendered as evidence any
such entry or writing, knowing the same to be false, shall be punishable with
imprisonment which may extend to one year, or with fine, or with both.
68. Penalty for making false statements for the purpose of deceiving or influencing any authority or officer.—Any person who,—
(a) with a view to deceiving any authority or officer in the execution of the
provisions of this Act, or
(b) with a view to procuring or influencing the doing or omission of anything
in relation to this Act or any matter thereunder, makes a false statement or
representation knowing the same to be false, shall be punishable with
imprisonment which may extend to one year, or with fine, or with both.
1[68A. Penalty for contravention of section 52A.—Any person who publishes a
2[sound recording] or a video film in contravention of the provisions of
section 52A shall be punishable with imprisonment which may extend to three
years and shall also be liable to fine.]
69. Offences by companies.—
(1) Where any offence under this Act has been committed by a company, every
person who at the time the offence was committed was in charge of, and was
responsible to the company for, the conduct of the business of the company, as
well as the company shall be deemed to be guilty of such offence, shall be
liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly: Provided that nothing
contained in this sub-section shall render any person liable to any
punishment, if he proves that the offence was committed without his knowledge
or that he exercised all due diligence to prevent the commission of such
offence.
(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1), where an offence
under this Act has been committed by a company, and it is proved that the
offence was committed with the consent or connivance of, or is attributable to
any negligence on the part of, any director, manager, secretary or other
officer of the company, such director, manager, secretary or other officer
shall also be deemed to be guilty of that offence and shall be liable to be
proceeded against and punished accordingly. Explanation.—For the purposes of
this section—
(a) “company” means any body corporate and includes a firm or other
association of persons; and
(b) “director” in relation to a firm means a partner in the firm.
70. Cognizance of offences.—No court inferior to that of 1[a Metropolitan Magistrate or a Judicial Magistrate of the first class] shall try any offence under this Act.
71. Appeals against certain order of Magistrate.—Any person aggrieved by an order made under sub-section (2) of section 64 or section 66 may, within thirty days of the date of such order appeal to the court to which appeals from the court making the order ordinarily lie, and such appellate court may direct that execution of the order be stayed pending disposal of the appeal.
72. Appeals against orders of Registrar of Copyrights and Copyright Board.—
(1) Any person aggrieved by any final decision or order of the Registrar of
Copyrights may, within three months from the date of the order or decision,
appeal to the Copyright Board.
(2) Any person aggrieved by any final decision or order of the Copyright
Board, not being a decision or order made in an appeal under sub-section (1),
may, within three months from the date of such decision or order, appeal to
the High Court within whose jurisdiction the appellant actually and
voluntarily resides or carries on business or personally works for gain:
Provided that no such appeal shall lie against a decision of the Copyright
Board under section 6.
(3) In calculating the period of three months provided for an appeal under
this section, the time taken in granting a certified copy of the order or
record of the decision appealed against shall be excluded.
73. Procedure for appeals.—The High Court may make rules consistent with this Act as to the procedure to be followed in respect of appeals made to it under section 72.
74. Registrar of Copyrights and Copyright Board to possess certain powers of civil courts.—The Registrar of Copyrights and the Copyright Board shall have the powers of a civil court when trying a suit under the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908), in respect of the following matters, namely:—
(a) summoning and enforcing the attendance of any person and examining him on
oath;
(b) requiring the discovery and production of any document;
(c) receiving evidence on affidavits;
(d) issuing commissions for the examination of witnesses or documents;
(e) requisitioning any public record or copy thereof from any court or office;
(f) any other matter which may be prescribed. Explanation.—For the purpose of
enforcing the attendance of witnesses, the local limits of the jurisdiction of
the Registrar of Copyrights or the Copyright Board, as the case may be, shall
be the limits of the territory of India.
75. Orders for payment of money passed by Registrar of Copyrights and Copyright Board to be executable as a decree.—Every order made by the Registrar of Copyrights or the Copyright Board under this Act for the payment of any money or by the High Court in any appeal against any such order of the Copyright Board shall, on a certificate issued by the Registrar of Copyrights, the Copyright Board or the Registrar of the High Court, as the case may be, be deemed to be a decree of a civil court and shall be executable in the same manner as a decree of such court.
76. Protection of action taken in good faith.—No suit or other legal proceeding shall lie against any person in respect of anything which is in good faith done or intended to be done in pursuance of this Act.
77. Certain persons to be public servants.—Every officer appointed under this Act and every member of the Copyright Board shall be deemed to be a public servant within the meaning of section 21 of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860).
78. Power to make rules.—
(1) The Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, make
rules1 for carrying out the purposes of this Act.
(2) In particular, and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing
power, the Central Government may make rules to provided for all or any of the
following matters, namely:—
(a) the term of office and conditions of service of the Chairman and other
members of the Copyright Board;
(b) the form of complaints and applications to be made, and the licences to be
granted, under this Act;
(c) the procedure to be followed in connection with any proceeding before the
Registrar of Copyrights; 2[(ca) the conditions for submission of application
under sub-section (2) of section 33; 2[(ca) the conditions for submission of
application under sub-section (2) of section 33;"
(cb) the conditions subject to which a copyright society may be registered
under sub-section (3) of section 33;
(cc) the inquiry for cancellation of registration under sub-section (4) of
section 33;
(cd) the conditions subject to which the copyright society may accept
authorisation under clause (a) of sub-section (1) of section 34 and the
conditions subject to which owners of rights have right to withdraw such
authorisation under clause (d) of that sub-section;
(ce) the conditions subject to which a copyright society may issue licences,
collect fees and distribute such fees amongst owners of rights under sub-
section (3) of section 34;
(cf) the manner in which the approval of the owners of rights regarding
collection and distribution of fees, approval for utilisation of any amount
collected as fees and to provide to such owners information concerning
activities in relation to the administration of their rights under sub-section
(1) of section 35;
(cg) the returns to be filed by copyright societies to the Registrar of
Copyrights under sub-section (1) of section 36;]
(d) the manners of determining any royalties payable under this Act, and the
security to be taken for the payment of such royalties; 2[(da) the manner of
payment of royalty under clause (j) of sub-section (1) of section 52; 2[(da)
the manner of payment of royalty under clause (j) of sub-section (1) of
section 52;"
(db) the form and the manner in which the copyright society shall maintain
accounts and other relevant records and prepare annual statements of accounts
and the manner in which the quantum of remuneration is to be paid to
individual owner of rights under sub-section (1) of section 52B;]
(e) the form of Register of Copyrights to be kept under this Act and the
particulars to be entered therein;
(f) the matters in respect of which the Registrar of Copyrights and the
Copyright Board shall have powers of a civil court;
(g) the fees which may be payable under this Act;
(h) the regulation of business of the Copyright Office and of all things by
this Act placed under the direction or control of the Registrar of Copyrights.
3[(3) Every rule made under this section shall be laid, as soon as may be,
after it is made, before each House of Parliament, while it is in session, for
a total period of thirty days which may be comprised in one session or in two
or more successive sessions, and if, before the expiry of the session
immediately following the session or the successive sessions aforesaid, both
Houses agree in making any modification in the rule or both Houses agree that
the rule should not be made, the rule shall thereafter have effect only in
such modified form or be of no effect, as the case may be; so, however, that
any such modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity
of anything previously done under that rule.]
79. Repeals, savings and transitional provisions.—
(1) The Indian Copyright Act, 1914 (3 of 1914), and the Copyright Act of 1911
passed by the Parliament of the United Kingdom as modified in its application
to India by the Indian Copyright Act, 1914 (3 of 1914), are hereby repealed.
(2) Where any person has, before the commencement of this Act, taken any
action whereby he has incurred any expenditure or liabilities in connection
with the reproduction or performance of any work in a manner which at the time
was lawful or for the purpose of or with view to the reproduction or
performance of a work at a time when such reproduction or performance would,
but for the coming into force of this Act, have been lawful, nothing in this
section shall diminish or prejudice any rights or interests arising from or in
connection with such action which are subsisting and valuable at the said
date, unless the person who, by virtue of this Act, becomes entitled to
restrain such reproduction or performance agrees to pay such compensation as,
failing agreement may be determined by the Copyright Board.
(3) Copyright shall not subsist by virtue of this Act in any work in which
copyright did not subsist immediately before the commencement of this Act
under any Act repealed by sub-section (1).
(4) Where copyright subsisted in any work immediately before the commencement
of this Act, the rights comprising such copyright shall, as from the date of
such commencement, be the rights specified in section 14 in relation to the
class of works to which such work belongs, and where any new rights are
conferred by that section, the owner of such rights shall be—
(a) in any case where copyright in the work was wholly assigned before the
commencement of this Act, the assignee or his successor-in-interest;
(b) in any other case, the person who was the first owner of the copyright in
the work under any Act repealed by sub-section (1) or his legal
representatives.
(5) Except as otherwise provided in this Act, where any person is entitled
immediately before the commencement of this Act to copyright in any work or
any right in such copyright or to an interest in any such right, he shall
continue to be entitled to such right or interest for the period for which he
would have been entitled thereto if this Act has not come into force.
(6) Nothing contained in this Act shall be deemed to render any act done
before its commencement an infringement of copyright if that act would not
otherwise have constituted such an infringement.
(7) Save as otherwise provided in this section, nothing in this section shall
be deemed to affect the application of the General Clauses Act, 1897 (10 of
1897), with respect to the effect to repeals.
1\. The words “Indian Patents and” omitted by Act 23 of 1983, sec. 7 (w.e.f.
9-8-1984).
2\. See now the Designs Act, 2000 ( 16 of 2000).
3\. Subs. by Act 15 of 2008, sec. 2, for sec. 8 (w.e.f. 15-4-2008). Section 8,
before substitution, stood as under:
4\. Ins. by Act 23 of 1983, sec. 8 (w.e.f. 9-8-1984).
5\. Section 19 re-numbered as sub-section (1) thereof by Act 23 of 1983, sec.
9 (w.e.f. 9-8-1984). tc" 1. Section 19 re-numbered as sub-section (1) thereof
by Act 23 of 1983, sec. 9 (w.e.f. 9-8-1984)."
6\. Sub-section (2) ins. by Act 23 of 1983, sec. 9 (w.e.f. 9-8-1984). tc" 2.
Sub-section (2) ins. by Act 23 of 1983, sec. 9 (w.e.f. 9-8-1984)."
7\. Subs. by Act 38 of 1994, sec. 9, for section 19A (w.e.f. 10-5-1995).
Earlier section 19A was inserted by Act 23 of 1983, sec. 10 (w.e.f. 9-8-1984).
8\. Subs. by Act 13 of 1992, sec. 2, for “fifty years” (w.r.e.f. 28-12-1991).
tc" 1. Subs. by Act 13 of 1992, sec. 2, for “fifty years” (w.r.e.f.
28-12-1991)."
9\. Subs. by Act 13 of 1992, sec. 2, for “fifty years” (w.r.e.f. 28-12-1991).
tc" 1. Subs. by Act 13 of 1992, sec. 2, for “fifty years” (w.r.e.f.
28-12-1991)."
10\. Subs. by Act 13 of 1992, sec. 2, for “fifty years” (w.r. e.f.
28-12-1991). tc" 1. Subs. by Act 13 of 1992, sec. 2, for “fifty years” (w.r.
e.f. 28-12-1991)."
11\. Subs. by Act 38 of 1994, sec. 2, for “record” (w.e.f. 10-5-1995). tc" 2.
Subs. by Act 38 of 1994, sec. 2, for “record” (w.e.f. 10-5-1995)."
12\. Subs. by Act 13 of 1992, sec. 2, for “fifty years” (w.r. e.f.
28-12-1991). tc" 1. Subs. by Act 13 of 1992, sec. 2, for “fifty years” (w.r.
e.f. 28-12-1991)."
13\. Subs. by Act 13 of 1992, sec. 2, for “fifty years” (w.r. e.f.
28-12-1991). tc" 1. Subs. by Act 13 of 1992, sec. 2, for “fifty years” (w.r.
e.f. 28-12-1991)."
14\. Subs. by Act 13 of 1992, sec. 2, for “fifty years” (w.r. e.f.
28-12-1991).
15\. Subs. by Act 38 of 1994, sec. 2, for “record” (w.e.f. 10-5-1995).
16\. Subs. by Act 13 of 1992, sec. 2, for “fifty years” (w.r. e.f.
28-12-1991). tc" 1. Subs. by Act 13 of 1992, sec. 2, for “fifty years” (w.r.
e.f. 28-12-1991)."
17\. Ins. by Act 23 of 1983, sec. 11 (w.e.f. 9-8-1984). tc" 3. Ins. by Act 23
of 1983, sec. 11 (w.e.f. 9-8-1984)."
18\. Subs. by Act 13 of 1992, sec. 2, for “fifty years” (w.r. e.f.
28-12-1991). tc" 1. Subs. by Act 13 of 1992, sec. 2, for “fifty years” (w.r.
e.f. 28-12-1991)."
19\. Subs. by Act 13 of 1992, sec. 2, for “fifty years” (w.r. e.f.
28-12-1991). tc" 1. Subs. by Act 13 of 1992, sec. 2, for “fifty years” (w.r.
e.f. 28-12-1991)."
20\. Ins. by Act 38 of 1994, sec. 10 (w.e.f. 10-5-1995). tc" 1. Ins. by Act 38
of 1994, sec. 10 (w.e.f. 10-5-1995)."
21\. Subs. by Act 23 of 1983, sec. 2, for “radio-diffusion” (w.e.f. 9-8-1984).
tc" 2. Subs. by Act 23 of 1983, sec. 2, for “radio-diffusion” (w.e.f.
9-8-1984)."
22\. Subs. by Act 38 of 1994, sec. 2, for “record” (w.e.f. 10-5-1995). tc" 3.
Subs. by Act 38 of 1994, sec. 2, for “record” (w.e.f. 10-5-1995)."
23\. Ins. by Act 23 of 1983, sec. 12 (w.e.f. 9-8-1984). tc" 4. Ins. by Act 23
of 1983, sec. 12 (w.e.f. 9-8-1984)."
24\. Ins. by Act 23 of 1983, sec. 13 (w.e.f. 9-8-1984). tc" 1. Ins. by Act 23
of 1983, sec. 13 (w.e.f. 9-8-1984)."
25\. Subs. by Act 23 of 1983, sec. 13, for “such application” (w.e.f.
9-8-1984). tc" 1. Subs. by Act 23 of 1983, sec. 13, for “such application”
(w.e.f. 9-8-1984)."
26\. Ins. by Act 23 of 1983, sec. 14 (w.e.f. 9-8-1984).
27\. Subs. by Act 38 of 1994, sec. 13, for section 37 (w.e.f. 10-5-1995). tc"
2. Subs. by Act 38 of 1994, sec. 13, for section 37 (w.e.f. 10-5-1995)."
28\. Subs. by Act 38 of 1994, sec. 14, for section 38 (w.e.f. 10-5-1995). tc"
1. Subs. by Act 38 of 1994, sec. 14, for section 38 (w.e.f. 10-5-1995)."
29\. Subs. by Act 49 of 1999, sec. 4, for “twenty-five years” (w.e.f.
15-1-2000). tc" 2. Subs. by Act 49 of 1999, sec. 4, for “twenty-five years”
(w.e.f. 15-1-2000)."
30\. Subs. by Act 38 of 1994, sec. 14, for section 38 (w.e.f. 10-5-1995). tc"
1. Subs. by Act 38 of 1994, sec. 14, for section 38 (w.e.f. 10-5-1995)."
31\. Subs. by Act 49 of 1999, sec. 4, for “twenty-five years” (w.e.f.
15-1-2000). tc" 2. Subs. by Act 49 of 1999, sec. 4, for “twenty-five years”
(w.e.f. 15-1-2000)."
32\. Subs. by Act 38 of 1994, sec. 15, for section 39 (w.e.f. 10-5-1995).
33\. Subs. by Act 38 of 1994, sec. 15, for section 39 (w.e.f. 10-5-1995).
34\. For the International Copyright Order, 1999, see S.O. 228(E), dated 24th
March, 1999 (w.e.f. 6-4-1999), published in the Gazette of India, Extra., Pt.
II, Sec. 3, p. 181. tc" 1. For the International Copyright Order, 1999, see
S.O. 228(E), dated 24th March, 1999 (w.e.f.
35\. Ins. by Act 49 of 1999, sec. 5 (w.e.f. 15-1-2000). tc" 1. Ins. by Act 49
of 1999, sec. 5 (w.e.f. 15-1-2000)."
36\. For Copyright (International Organisation) Order, 1958, see Gazette of
India, Pt. II, Sec. 3, p. 183. tc" 1. For Copyright (International
Organisation) Order, 1958, see Gazette of India, Pt. II, Sec. 3, p. 183."
37\. Ins. by Act 49 of 1999, sec. 6 (w.e.f. 15-1-2000). tc" 1. Ins. by Act 49
of 1999, sec. 6 (w.e.f. 15-1-2000)."
38\. Added by Act 23 of 1983, sec.16 (w.e.f. 9-8-1984). tc" 2. Added by Act 23
of 1983, sec.16 (w.e.f. 9-8-1984)."
39\. Ins. by Act 23 of 1983, sec. 17 (w.e.f. 9-8-1984). tc" 1. Ins. by Act 23
of 1983, sec. 17 (w.e.f. 9-8-1984)."
40\. Subs. by Act 38 of 1994, sec. 16, for sub-clause (ii) (w.e.f. 10-5-1995).
41\. The words "(except for the private and domestic use of the importer)"
omitted by Act 65 of 1984, sec. 3 (w.e.f. 8-10-1984).
42\. Subs. by Act 38 of 1994, sec. 17, for sub-clause (i) (w.e.f. 10-5-1995).
43\. Ins. by Act 38 of 1994, sec. 17 (w.e.f 10-5-1995).
44\. Ins. by Act 65 of 1984, sec. 4 (w.e.f. 8-10-1984). tc" 1. Ins. by Act 65
of 1984, sec. 4 (w.e.f. 8-10-1984)."
45\. Subs. by Act 38 of 1994, sec. 2, for “record” (w.e.f. 10-5-1995). tc" 2.
Subs. by Act 38 of 1994, sec. 2, for “record” (w.e.f. 10-5-1995)."
46\. Ins. by Act 38 of 1994, sec. 18 (w.e.f. 10-5-1995). tc" 3. Ins. by Act 38
of 1994, sec. 18 (w.e.f. 10-5-1995)."
47\. Subs. by Act 23 of 1983, sec. 19, for “under section 19 of the Sea
Customs Act, 1878 (8 of 1978)” (w.e.f. 9-8-1984).
48\. Ins. by Act 38 of 1994, sec. 19 (w.e.f. 10-5-1995). tc" 2. Ins. by Act 38
of 1994, sec. 19 (w.e.f. 10-5-1995)."
49\. Subs. by Act 38 of 1994, sec. 20, for sub-section (1) (w.e.f. 10-5-1995).
50\. Subs. by Act 38 of 1994, sec. 20, for sub-section (1) (w.e.f. 10-5-1995).
51\. Subs. by Act 23 of 1983, sec. 20, for “the Specific Relief Act, 1877 (1
of 1877)” (w.e.f.9-8-1984). tc" 1. Subs. by Act 23 of 1983, sec. 20, for “the
Specific Relief Act, 1877 (1 of 1877)” (w.e.f.9-8-1984)."
52\. Subs. by Act 23 of 1983, sec. 21, for “in section 42 of the Specific
Relief Act, 1877 (1 of 1877)” (w.e.f. 9-8-1984).
53\. Ins. by Act 38 of 1994, sec. 21 (w.e.f. 10-5-1995). tc" 1. Ins. by Act 38
of 1994, sec. 21 (w.e.f. 10-5-1995)."
54\. Subs. by Act 65 of 1984, sec. 5, for certain words (w.e.f. 8-10-1984).
tc" 2. Subs. by Act 65 of 1984, sec. 5, for certain words (w.e.f. 8-10-1984)."
55\. Ins. by Act 65 of 1994, sec. 6 (w.e.f. 8-10-1984). tc" 2. Ins. by Act 65
of 1994, sec. 6 (w.e.f. 8-10-1984)."
56\. Ins. by Act 38 of 1994, sec. 22 (w.e.f. 10-5-1995). tc" 3. Ins. by Act 38
of 1994, sec. 22 (w.e.f. 10-5-1995)."
57\. Ins. by Act 38 of 1994, sec. 23 (w.e.f. 10-5-1995). tc" 4. Ins. by Act 38
of 1994, sec. 23 (w.e.f. 10-5-1995)."
58\. Subs. by Act 65 of 1984, sec. 7, for sub-section (1) (w.e.f. 8-10-1984).
tc" 5. Subs. by Act 65 of 1984, sec. 7, for sub-section (1) (w.e.f.
8-10-1984)."
59\. Ins. by Act 65 of 1984, sec. 7 (w.e.f. 8-10-1984). tc" 1. Ins. by Act 65
of 1984, sec. 7 (w.e.f. 8-10-1984)."
60\. Subs. by Act 65 of 1984, sec. 8, for “one year, or with fine or with
both” (w.e.f. 8-10-1984). tc" 2. Subs. by Act 65 of 1984, sec. 8, for “one
year, or with fine or with both” (w.e.f. 8-10-1984)."
61\. Ins. by Act 65 of 1984, sec. 9 (w.e.f. 8-10-1984). tc" 1. Ins. by Act 65
of 1984, sec. 9 (w.e.f. 8-10-1984)."
62\. Subs. by Act 38 of 1994, sec. 2, for “record” (w.e.f. 10-5-1995). tc" 2.
Subs. by Act 38 of 1994, sec. 2, for “record” (w.e.f. 10-5-1995)."
63\. Subs. by Act 23 of 1983, sec. 22, for “a Presidency Magistrate or a
Magistrate of the first class” (w.e.f. 9-8-1984).
64\. For the Copyright Rules, 1958, see Gazette of India, Extra., Pt. II, Sec.
3, p. 167. (Also published in this Book after the Copyright Act, 1957). tc" 1.
For the Copyright Rules, 1958, see Gazette of India, Extra., Pt. II, Sec. 3,
p. 167. (Also published in this Book after the Copyright Act, 1957)."
65\. Ins. by Act 38 of 1994, sec. 24 (w.e.f. 10-5-1995). tc" 2. Ins. by Act 38
of 1994, sec. 24 (w.e.f. 10-5-1995)."
58\. Subs. by Act 65 of 1984, sec. 7, for sub-section (1) (w.e.f. 8-10-1984).
tc" 5. Subs. by Act 65 of 1984, sec. 7, for sub-section (1) (w.e.f.
8-10-1984)."
59\. Ins. by Act 65 of 1984, sec. 7 (w.e.f. 8-10-1984). tc" 1. Ins. by Act 65
of 1984, sec. 7 (w.e.f. 8-10-1984)."
60\. Subs. by Act 65 of 1984, sec. 8, for “one year, or with fine or with
both” (w.e.f. 8-10-1984). tc" 2. Subs. by Act 65 of 1984, sec. 8, for “one
year, or with fine or with both” (w.e.f. 8-10-1984)."
61\. Ins. by Act 65 of 1984, sec. 9 (w.e.f. 8-10-1984). tc" 1. Ins. by Act 65
of 1984, sec. 9 (w.e.f. 8-10-1984)."
62\. Subs. by Act 38 of 1994, sec. 2, for “record” (w.e.f. 10-5-1995). tc" 2.
Subs. by Act 38 of 1994, sec. 2, for “record” (w.e.f. 10-5-1995)."
63\. Subs. by Act 23 of 1983, sec. 22, for “a Presidency Magistrate or a
Magistrate of the first class” (w.e.f. 9-8-1984).
64\. For the Copyright Rules, 1958, see Gazette of India, Extra., Pt. II, Sec.
3, p. 167. (Also published in this Book after the Copyright Act, 1957). tc" 1.
work;2[and]4[and]" 2[(v) in relation to any work, any use of such work
involving its rearrangement or alteration;] 4[(v) in relation to any work, any
use of such work involving its rearrangement or alteration;]"
(b) 3[‘‘work of architecture’’] means any building or structure having as
artistic character or design, or any model for such building or structure;
5[‘‘work of architecture’’] means any building or structure having as artistic
character or design, or any model for such building or structure;"
(c) “artistic work” means,—
(i) a painting, a sculpture, a drawing (including a diagram, map, chart or
plan), an engraving or a photograph, whether or not any such work possesses
artistic quality;
(ii) a 4[work of architecture]; and 1[work of architecture]; and"
(iii) any other work of artistic craftsmanship;
(d) “author’’ means,—
(i) in relation to a literary or dramatic work, the author of the work;
(ii) in relation to a musical work, the composer;
(iii) in relation to an artistic work other than a photograph, the artist;
(iv) in relation to a photograph, the person taking the photograph; 5[(v) in
relation to a cinematograph film or sound recording, the producer; and 2[(v)
in relation to a cinematograph film or sound recording, the producer; and"
58\. Subs. by Act 65 of 1984, sec. 7, for sub-section (1) (w.e.f. 8-10-1984).
tc" 5. Subs. by Act 65 of 1984, sec. 7, for sub-section (1) (w.e.f.
8-10-1984)."
59\. Ins. by Act 65 of 1984, sec. 7 (w.e.f. 8-10-1984). tc" 1. Ins. by Act 65
of 1984, sec. 7 (w.e.f. 8-10-1984)."
60\. Subs. by Act 65 of 1984, sec. 8, for “one year, or with fine or with
both” (w.e.f. 8-10-1984). tc" 2. Subs. by Act 65 of 1984, sec. 8, for “one
year, or with fine or with both” (w.e.f. 8-10-1984)."
61\. Ins. by Act 65 of 1984, sec. 9 (w.e.f. 8-10-1984). tc" 1. Ins. by Act 65
of 1984, sec. 9 (w.e.f. 8-10-1984)."
62\. Subs. by Act 38 of 1994, sec. 2, for “record” (w.e.f. 10-5-1995). tc" 2.
Subs. by Act 38 of 1994, sec. 2, for “record” (w.e.f. 10-5-1995)."
63\. Subs. by Act 23 of 1983, sec. 22, for “a Presidency Magistrate or a
Magistrate of the first class” (w.e.f. 9-8-1984).
64\. For the Copyright Rules, 1958, see Gazette of India, Extra., Pt. II, Sec.
3, p. 167. (Also published in this Book after the Copyright Act, 1957). tc" 1.
work;2[and]4[and]" 2[(v) in relation to any work, any use of such work
involving its rearrangement or alteration;] 4[(v) in relation to any work, any
use of such work involving its rearrangement or alteration;]"
(b) 3[‘‘work of architecture’’] means any building or structure having as
artistic character or design, or any model for such building or structure;
5[‘‘work of architecture’’] means any building or structure having as artistic
character or design, or any model for such building or structure;"
(c) “artistic work” means,—
(i) a painting, a sculpture, a drawing (including a diagram, map, chart or
plan), an engraving or a photograph, whether or not any such work possesses
artistic quality;
(ii) a 4[work of architecture]; and 1[work of architecture]; and"
(iii) any other work of artistic craftsmanship;
(d) “author’’ means,—
(i) in relation to a literary or dramatic work, the author of the work;
(ii) in relation to a musical work, the composer;
(iii) in relation to an artistic work other than a photograph, the artist;
(iv) in relation to a photograph, the person taking the photograph; 5[(v) in
relation to a cinematograph film or sound recording, the producer; and 2[(v)
in relation to a cinematograph film or sound recording, the producer; and"
58\. Subs. by Act 65 of 1984, sec. 7, for sub-section (1) (w.e.f. 8-10-1984).
tc" 5. Subs. by Act 65 of 1984, sec. 7, for sub-section (1) (w.e.f.
8-10-1984)."
59\. Ins. by Act 65 of 1984, sec. 7 (w.e.f. 8-10-1984). tc" 1. Ins. by Act 65
of 1984, sec. 7 (w.e.f. 8-10-1984)."
60\. Subs. by Act 65 of 1984, sec. 8, for “one year, or with fine or with
both” (w.e.f. 8-10-1984). tc" 2. Subs. by Act 65 of 1984, sec. 8, for “one
year, or with fine or with both” (w.e.f. 8-10-1984)."
61\. Ins. by Act 65 of 1984, sec. 9 (w.e.f. 8-10-1984). tc" 1. Ins. by Act 65
of 1984, sec. 9 (w.e.f. 8-10-1984)."
62\. Subs. by Act 38 of 1994, sec. 2, for “record” (w.e.f. 10-5-1995). tc" 2.
Subs. by Act 38 of 1994, sec. 2, for “record” (w.e.f. 10-5-1995)."
63\. Subs. by Act 23 of 1983, sec. 22, for “a Presidency Magistrate or a
Magistrate of the first class” (w.e.f. 9-8-1984).
64\. For the Copyright Rules, 1958, see Gazette of India, Extra., Pt. II, Sec.
3, p. 167. (Also published in this Book after the Copyright Act, 1957). tc" 1.
work;2[and]4[and]" 2[(v) in relation to any work, any use of such work
involving its rearrangement or alteration;] 4[(v) in relation to any work, any
use of such work involving its rearrangement or alteration;]"
(b) 3[‘‘work of architecture’’] means any building or structure having as
artistic character or design, or any model for such building or structure;
5[‘‘work of architecture’’] means any building or structure having as artistic
character or design, or any model for such building or structure;"
(c) “artistic work” means,—
(i) a painting, a sculpture, a drawing (including a diagram, map, chart or
plan), an engraving or a photograph, whether or not any such work possesses
artistic quality;
(ii) a 4[work of architecture]; and 1[work of architecture]; and"
(iii) any other work of artistic craftsmanship;
(d) “author’’ means,—
(i) in relation to a literary or dramatic work, the author of the work;
(ii) in relation to a musical work, the composer;
(iii) in relation to an artistic work other than a photograph, the artist;
(iv) in relation to a photograph, the person taking the photograph; 5[(v) in
relation to a cinematograph film or sound recording, the producer; and 2[(v)
in relation to a cinematograph film or sound recording, the producer; and"
(vi) in relation to any literary, dramatic, musical or artistic work which is
computer-generated, the person who causes the work to be created;] 6[(dd)
“broadcast” means communication to the public— 3[(dd) “broadcast” means
communication to the public—"
(i) by any means of wireless diffusion, whether in any one or more of the
forms of signs, sounds or visual images; or
(ii) by wire, and includes a re-broadcast;]
(e) “ calendar year” means the year commencing on the 1st day of January;
7[(f) “cinematograph film” means any work of visual recording on any medium
produced through a process from which a moving image may be produced by any
means and includes a sound recording accompanying such visual recording and
58\. Subs. by Act 65 of 1984, sec. 7, for sub-section (1) (w.e.f. 8-10-1984).
tc" 5. Subs. by Act 65 of 1984, sec. 7, for sub-section (1) (w.e.f.
8-10-1984)."
59\. Ins. by Act 65 of 1984, sec. 7 (w.e.f. 8-10-1984). tc" 1. Ins. by Act 65
of 1984, sec. 7 (w.e.f. 8-10-1984)."
60\. Subs. by Act 65 of 1984, sec. 8, for “one year, or with fine or with
both” (w.e.f. 8-10-1984). tc" 2. Subs. by Act 65 of 1984, sec. 8, for “one
year, or with fine or with both” (w.e.f. 8-10-1984)."
61\. Ins. by Act 65 of 1984, sec. 9 (w.e.f. 8-10-1984). tc" 1. Ins. by Act 65
of 1984, sec. 9 (w.e.f. 8-10-1984)."
62\. Subs. by Act 38 of 1994, sec. 2, for “record” (w.e.f. 10-5-1995). tc" 2.
Subs. by Act 38 of 1994, sec. 2, for “record” (w.e.f. 10-5-1995)."
63\. Subs. by Act 23 of 1983, sec. 22, for “a Presidency Magistrate or a
Magistrate of the first class” (w.e.f. 9-8-1984).
64\. For the Copyright Rules, 1958, see Gazette of India, Extra., Pt. II, Sec.
3, p. 167. (Also published in this Book after the Copyright Act, 1957). tc" 1.
work;2[and]4[and]" 2[(v) in relation to any work, any use of such work
involving its rearrangement or alteration;] 4[(v) in relation to any work, any
use of such work involving its rearrangement or alteration;]"
(b) 3[‘‘work of architecture’’] means any building or structure having as
artistic character or design, or any model for such building or structure;
5[‘‘work of architecture’’] means any building or structure having as artistic
character or design, or any model for such building or structure;"
(c) “artistic work” means,—
(i) a painting, a sculpture, a drawing (including a diagram, map, chart or
plan), an engraving or a photograph, whether or not any such work possesses
artistic quality;
(ii) a 4[work of architecture]; and 1[work of architecture]; and"
(iii) any other work of artistic craftsmanship;
(d) “author’’ means,—
(i) in relation to a literary or dramatic work, the author of the work;
(ii) in relation to a musical work, the composer;
(iii) in relation to an artistic work other than a photograph, the artist;
(iv) in relation to a photograph, the person taking the photograph; 5[(v) in
relation to a cinematograph film or sound recording, the producer; and 2[(v)
in relation to a cinematograph film or sound recording, the producer; and"
(vi) in relation to any literary, dramatic, musical or artistic work which is
computer-generated, the person who causes the work to be created;] 6[(dd)
“broadcast” means communication to the public— 3[(dd) “broadcast” means
communication to the public—"
(i) by any means of wireless diffusion, whether in any one or more of the
forms of signs, sounds or visual images; or
(ii) by wire, and includes a re-broadcast;]
(e) “ calendar year” means the year commencing on the 1st day of January;
7[(f) “cinematograph film” means any work of visual recording on any medium
produced through a process from which a moving image may be produced by any
means and includes a sound recording accompanying such visual recording and
58\. Subs. by Act 65 of 1984, sec. 7, for sub-section (1) (w.e.f. 8-10-1984).
tc" 5. Subs. by Act 65 of 1984, sec. 7, for sub-section (1) (w.e.f.
8-10-1984)."
59\. Ins. by Act 65 of 1984, sec. 7 (w.e.f. 8-10-1984). tc" 1. Ins. by Act 65
of 1984, sec. 7 (w.e.f. 8-10-1984)."
60\. Subs. by Act 65 of 1984, sec. 8, for “one year, or with fine or with
both” (w.e.f. 8-10-1984). tc" 2. Subs. by Act 65 of 1984, sec. 8, for “one
year, or with fine or with both” (w.e.f. 8-10-1984)."
61\. Ins. by Act 65 of 1984, sec. 9 (w.e.f. 8-10-1984). tc" 1. Ins. by Act 65
of 1984, sec. 9 (w.e.f. 8-10-1984)."
62\. Subs. by Act 38 of 1994, sec. 2, for “record” (w.e.f. 10-5-1995). tc" 2.
Subs. by Act 38 of 1994, sec. 2, for “record” (w.e.f. 10-5-1995)."
63\. Subs. by Act 23 of 1983, sec. 22, for “a Presidency Magistrate or a
Magistrate of the first class” (w.e.f. 9-8-1984).
64\. For the Copyright Rules, 1958, see Gazette of India, Extra., Pt. II, Sec.
3, p. 167. (Also published in this Book after the Copyright Act, 1957). tc" 1.
