Income Tax Appellate Tribunal - Delhi
M/S. Tata Teleservices Ltd.,, New ... vs Acit, New Delhi on 15 March, 2018
                        In the Income-Tax Appellate Tribunal,
                              Delhi Bench 'E', New Delhi
                 Before : Shri Bhavnesh Saini, Judicial Member And
                         Shri L.P. Sahu, Accountant Member
                        ITA Nos. 3328 to 3332/Del./2015 AND
                            S.A. No. 315 to 319/Del./2015
                        Assessment Years: 2007-08 to 2011-12
           M/s. Tata Teleservices Ltd.,      vs. Income-tax Officer,
           2A, Old Shwar Nagar,                  Ward 51(5), New Delhi
           Mathura Road, New Delhi.
           PAN - AAACT2438A
           (Appellant)                             (Respondent)
                 Assessee by      Sh. Sparsh Bhargava, Advocate &
                                  Ms. Rachna Yadav, Advocate
                 Revenue by       Sh. S.R. Senapati, Sr. DR
                      Date of Hearing                  15.02.2018
                      Date of Pronouncement            1503.2018
                                           ORDER
partly allowed and the appeals for A.Yrs. 2010-11 and 2011-12 deserve to be
dismissed.
20\. In the result, the appeals of the assessee for A.Yrs. 2007-08 to 2009-10
are partly allowed and the appeals for A.Yrs. 2010-11 and 2011-12 are
dismissed. The Stay petitions filed by the assessee are, accordingly,
dismissed.
           Order pronounced in the open court on 15TH March, 2018
                 Sd/-                                               Sd/-
            (Bhavnesh Saini)                                      (L.P. Sahu)
           Judicial member                                     Accountant Member
    Dated: 15.03.2018
    *aks*
    Copy of order forwarded to:
    (1)     The appellant                       (2)    The respondent
    (3)     Commissioner                        (4)    CIT(A)
    (5)     Departmental Representative         (6)    Guard File
                                           ORDER
Per L.P. Sahu, A.M.:
All these appeals at the instance of assessee are directed against separate
orders of the ld. CIT(A)-41, New Delhi dated 13.03.2015 for A.Yrs. 2007-08 to
2010-11 and dated 12.03.2015 for A.Y. 2011-12. The assessee has also moved
stay petitions in all these appeals.
2\. Since issue(s) involved in all these appeals are common and the assessee
has raised common grounds, all the appeals were heard together and are,
therefore, being disposed of by this consolidated order. For the sake of ITA
Nos. 3328 to 3332/Del./2015 & SA Nos.315 to 319/Del./2015 2 convenience and
brevity, we take up the appeal in ITA No. 338/Del./2015 for A.Y. 2007-08
first. The grounds raised in this appeal read as under :
> "A. That the Ld. CIT (A) grossly erred in holding that the Appellant was
> duty bound to deduct tax at source under section 194H from the discounts
> allowed to its distributors on bulk sale of starter kits and recharge
> vouchers (RCVs) under section 194H of the Income- tax Act, 1961 ('IT Act')
> and consequently hold it to be an assessee in default under section 201 of
> the Act.
> i. That the Ld CIT (A) grossly erred in not appreciating that the provisions
> of Section 194H of the Act would apply only at the time of payment/credit to
> payee's account and that the discount allowed is not payment/credit made to
> the Channel partners account;
> ii. That the Ld. CIT (A) grossly erred in not appreciating that Section 194H
> would not apply as the discount allowed does not qualify as income
> chargeable to tax under the Act in the hands of the payee in the facts and
> circumstances of present case;
> iii. That the Ld CIT (A) erroneously classified the discount given by the
> Applicant to its Channel Partners at the time of bulk sale of Starter Kits
> and RCVs as commission/brokerage;
> iv That the Ld. CIT (A) completely erred in holding that the principal-agent
> relationship existed between the Appellant and its Channel partners without
> appreciating that the starter kits/RCVs were sold in bulk on a principal to
> principal basis;
> v. That the Ld. CIT (A) completely failed to appreciate that the goods sold
> in bulk to its channel partners have been accepted as a valid "sale"
> transaction by the Sales Tax/VAT authorities and hence the same could not be
> considered differently by the Tax Authorities;
> vi. That the Ld. CIT (A) completely failed to appreciate the ruling of the
> Karnataka High Court passed in favour in Appellant's own case where the
> Appellant's facts as distinguished from other operators' facts have been
> noted and it has been held that the Appellant was not liable to deduct tax
> under Section 194H.
> ITA Nos. 3328 to 3332/Del./2015 & SA Nos.315 to 319/Del./2015 3 vii. That
> the Ld CIT (A) erred in not directing the Assessing Officer for allowing
> relief wherein payees have discharged appropriate taxes over their taxable
> income as declared;
B. That the Ld. CIT (A) grossly erred in concluding that the Appellant is an
'assessee in default' for alleged non deduction of tax at source under the
provisions of Section 194 J of the Act on interconnect usage charges paid by
the Appellant to other telecom operators;
> i. That the Ld. CIT (A) completely failed to appreciate that there was no
> human intervention while concluding a successful call, for which alone
> payment was made by the Appellant to other operator, ii. That the Ld. CIT
> (A) completely failed to appreciate the fact that no human intervention of
> the nature of managerial or consultancy services in any case was involved in
> providing interconnect usage charges;
> iii. That the Ld. CIT (A) completely failed to appreciate that there was no
> use of equipment by the Appellant of the other operator and therefore, the
> payment made by the Appellant to the other operators would not be regarded
> as 'Fee for Technical services' iv. That the Ld CIT (A) complete y failed in
> appreciating that the payment for interconnection was for use by the other
> operator of a standard facility;
C. That the Ld. CIT (A) completely failed in appreciating that the Hon'ble
Income Tax Appellate Tribunal, Jaipur Bench in ITA Nos. 309/JP/2012, 502, 503,
505 & 505/JP/2011 for the AYs 2006-07 to 2009-10 in the Applicant's own case
has held that the Applicant was not liable to deduct TDS on the discounts
offered to the Channel Partners.
D. That the Ld. CIT (A) grossly erred in passing the impugned order in
violation of the principles of natural justice by not granting an opportunity
to the Appellant to independently cross examine the technical expert's opinion
on interconnect usage charges, if any, as directed by the Honourable Supreme
Court in case of Bharti Cellular Limited ITA Nos. 3328 to 3332/Del./2015 & SA
Nos.315 to 319/Del./2015 4 E. That the Ld CIT (A) erred in construing and
relying on the cross- examination in the case of Vodafone West Ltd.
F. That the Ld. CIT (A) erred in not appreciating that as per the decision in
CIT vs Bharti Cellular [2011] 330 ITR 239, examination and cross examination
of expert had to be conducted in the facts/case of the Appellant and that the
Appellant was to be granted an opportunity to adduce its evidence;
G. That the Ld, CIT (A) has grossly erred in ignoring the C.A. certificates
available in respect of MTNL, Hutchison Essar and Tata Communication.
H. That the Ld. CIT (A) grossly erred in levying interest under section
201(1A) of the Act;
I. That the Ld. CIT (A) grossly erred in not considering the contentions and
grounds raised by the Appellant."
3\. The common issues involved in all these appeals pertain to (i) the demand
raised against the assessee under section 201(1) and 201(1A) of the Income Tax
Act, 1961 on account of alleged failure of the assessee to deduct tax at
source under section 194H of the Act, in respect of discount given to the
distributors towards starter kits and recharge vouchers and (ii) the demand
raised under section 201(1) and 201(1A), on alleged failure of the assessee to
deduct tax at source under section 194J of the Act, in respect of payments
made towards roaming service provided by other telecom service providers.
4\. The brief facts of the case are that the assessee is engaged in the
business of providing telecommunication services across the country. The
assessee has been providing post-paid and pre-paid telecommunication services
through various channel partners (Distributors) under the agreements entered
between them. The modus operandi of assessee's business is that it sells its
products, i.e., Starter kits and pre-paid vouchers to distributors in bulk
against advance ITA Nos. 3328 to 3332/Del./2015 & SA Nos.315 to 319/Del./2015
5 payments. According to the assessee the starter kits and the recharge coupon
vouchers are sold to its various distributors as per the terms of business
agreements on principal to principal basis at a discounted price than MRP with
the agreed rider that no product shall be sold at a price more than MRP and
thus, such transactions are not liable for TDS u/s. 194H of the Act. According
to the Assessing Officer, the discount, i.e., the difference between the MRP
and the selling price, to the distributor amounted to payment of commission to
the distributors which was liable to TDS u/s. 194H of the Act. The Assessing
Officer further noticed that discounts on pre-paid SIM Cards/recharge coupons
had already been held to be subjected to TDS as 'commission' within the
meaning of section 194H. The Assessing Officer following the similar stand
taken in the case of assessee for F.Y. 2004-05 and F.Y. 2009-10 and the
decision of Hon'ble jurisdictional High Court in the case of Idea Cellular
Ltd., 325 ITR 148, held the discounts allowed on Starter Kits liable to TDS
and since the assessee failed to deduct the tax at source, held the assessee
in default on this count, determining the total liability and interest thereon
at Rs.2,15,45,233/- u/s. 194H of the Act vide assessment order dated
30.03.2011.
5\. Further, the Assessing Officer noticed that the assessee has paid roaming
charges to other operators for using their network, but no TDS was deducted on
such interconnect usage charges (IUC), being the fee for technical services,
as per section 194J of the Act. The details of such payments, on which no TDS
was made by assessee are as under :
          Sl. No.     Name of operator                    Amount of IUC paid
          1.          Hutchison Essar                     12,06,69,183
          2.          MTNL                                19,67,57,060
          3.          Reliance Communication              15,62,20,843
ITA Nos. 3328 to 3332/Del./2015 & SA Nos.315 to 319/Del./2015 6 The Assessing
Officer relying on the decision of Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of
Vodafone Essar Mobile Services Ltd., in Civil Appeal No. 6692 dated
12.08.2010, considering the detailed contentions of the assessee, extensive
exercise carried out by Assessing Officer in assessment proceedings for F.Y.
2002-03 with the help of experts and the circular of CBDT on alternate plea of
assessee, treated the assessee in default for not deducting TDS u/s. 194J of
the IT Act on the impugned IUC and calculated the tax liability and interest
on above payments made for IUC at Rs.6,41,33,290/- vide assessment order.
6\. The assessee assailed the order of Assessing Officer in appeal before the
ld. CIT(A), who after considering the detailed submissions of assessee,
various case laws and attending circumstances of the case, affirmed the order
of Assessing Officer. The findings reached by the ld. CIT (A) read as under :
> 5\. Decision in Appeal:- I have carefully considered the submission of the
> appellant and have also gone through the order dated 30.03.2011 passed in
> this case. The appellant has raised 16 grounds of appeal. The two core
> issues raised in the appeal before me is with respect to the applicability
> of provisions of (a) section 194H on the discounts given on marketing &
> distribution of products i.e. SUKs/RCVs etc. (b) Section 194J on payment of
> lUC/roaming charges.
> 6\. Ground No. 1.4 to 10:
> 6.1 The core issue in these Grounds is with respect to the applicability of
> provision of section 194H on discounts given on marketing and distribution
> of the product i.e. start up kits (SDKs), Recharge Vouchers,(RCVs/EVCs) etc.
> 6.2 A remand report was called from the AO with respect to the core issue
> under dispute for the relevant year. Vide remand report dated 04.02.2014 and
> 02.06.2014 the AO observed that as per the agreement with the distributors,
> the discount granted to distributors on sale of RCVs/SUKs etc. are
> commission and should be subjected to TDS u/s 194H of the Act. Vide
> submission dated 11.02.2015, the appellant filed a rejoinder to the remand
> report wherein it stated that:
"We draw attention of your Honour that the AO has failed to appreciate the
true facts that the primary agreement with the Channel Partners is to buy &
sell appellants products on a principal to principal basis and any ancillary
or connected services apart from the primary arrangement would fall under
service area for which they would be remunerated in form of commission or
incentives. The appellant sell its product to the Channel Partners allowing
discount on the primary transaction. Appellant has been ITA Nos. 3328 to
3332/Del./2015 & SA Nos.315 to 319/Del./2015 7 deducting appropriate TDS on
all commission / incentives or credits allowed to the channel partners, It
would be Incorrect on the part of Ld. AO to connect and relate these ancillary
services to be connected with the primary transaction as the channel partner
under the agreement does not provide any services to the appellant relating to
the primary transaction. Under the agreement the channel partner purchase
appellant products on bulk and generates his income from further sale of these
products to its retailers / customers. The very fundamental requirement of
194H in the transaction between the appellant and the distributors is missing
as the discount cannot be equated as income in the hands of the distributors.
Distributors make its income on further sale of these products in the market.
The services that have been rendered by the channel partners are those which
are the terms of license conditions to be adhered by any operator under the
license agreement issued by the department of telecommunication. For these
services the channel partners are remunerated in the form of commission /
incentives / credits on which' the appellant has been deducting TDS
appropriately as required under the Act"
6.3 The appellant has quoted the judgment of Hon'ble Gujarat High Court in the
case of Ahmedabad Stamp Vendors Associates Vs. Union of India (2002) 124
Taxman 628 (Guj) and Mother Dairy India Ltd. Vs. ITO (Delhi) (2009) 28 SOT 43
(Delhi), and has stated that "there is sale of the products inbuilt for which
upfront payment is made and accordingly an agreed discount as per the market
condition is allowed. There is a transaction of sale and payment of applicable
sales tax/VAT on goods involved in the transaction. In case of the transaction
of sale of goods i.e. SIM cards etc. the appellant recognises the sale revenue
on the invoicing of these goods to the Channel Partners and in case of
recharge vouchers, as per the generally accepted accounting principles based
the usage of the talk time.
6.4 The appellant has further contended that the facts of its case are
different from that of Idea Cellular Ltd. (325 IR 148 (Del)} as the appellant
Tata Teleservices Ltd. (TTSL) is engaged in the business of trading in telecom
products and makes bulk sale of SIM cards and Recharges vouchers, to
distributors who further sell these products to end customers charging VAT on
SIM Cards etc. 6.5 The assessment order dated 30.03.2011 as well as the
written submission of the appellant is examined and the issue has also been
discussed threadbare during appellate proceedings with the Id AR of the
appellant. After going through ail the facts and material before me I observe
that the appellant is a telecommunication service provider in respective
telecom circle under licences granted by the Department of Telecommunication,
Govt. of India. In order to provide telecom services, the appellant sells
service products such as Starter Kits, SIM Cards and Recharge coupon vouchers
(RCVs). To distribute these products, the appellant enters into business
arrangement with various distributors or channel partners for both its prepaid
& post paid products.
6.6 In order to come to a definite conclusion on the issue at hand, I propose
to first look at the scope and ambit of section 194H of the Act and then
analyse the transaction between the appellant and Channel Partners as to
whether it falls within ITA Nos. 3328 to 3332/Del./2015 & SA Nos.315 to
319/Del./2015 8 the purview of the said section. In this context, it would be
necessary to extract the relevant portions of section 194H of the Act. The
said provision reads as under:-
"194H. Any person, not being an individual or a Hindu undivided family, who is
responsible for paying, on or after the 1st day of June, 2O01, to a resident,
any income by way of commission (not being insurance commission referred to in
section 194D) or brokerage, shall at the time of credit of such income to the
account of the payee or at the time of payment of such income in cash or by
the issue of a cheque or draft of by any other mode, whichever is earlier,
deduct income-tax thereon at the rate of ten percent:
Provided Provided Provided Explanation - For the purposes of this section, -
(i) "Commission or Brokerage" includes any payment received or receivable,
directly or indirectly, by a person acting on behalf of another person for
services rendered (not being professional services) or for any services in the
course of buying or selling of goods or in relation to any transaction
relating to any asset, valuable article or thing, not being securities;
(ii) ...............
(iii) ...............
(iv).............
6.7 The provisions of Section 194H suggests that except for a situation which
is encompassed by the second proviso, it applies to all persons other than an
individual or an HUF who is responsible for paying on or after 01.06.2001 to a
resident any income by way of commission to deduct tax at source at the time
of credit of such income to the account of the payee, that is, the recipient
or at the time of payment of such income in cash or by issue of cheque or
draft or by any other mode. In other words where a person pays to a resident
income which is of the nature of commission then that person is obliged to
deduct tax at source at any of the said stages, that is, either at the time of
credit of such income/commission or at the time of payment which may take the
form of cash, cheque, draft or by any other mode.
6.8 Commission under Explanation (i) to Section 194H of the Act is defined in
an inclusive manner. Commission under the definition includes payment received
or receivable, directly or indirectly, by a person acting on behalf of another
person for services rendered (not being professional services) or for any
service in the course of buying or selling of goods or in relation to any
transaction relating to any asset, valuable article or thing (not being
securities). It takes into account a situation where a person renders services
to another person for which the person rendering service either receives or is
entitled to receive, directly or indirectly, payment from that another person
to whom the service is rendered.
ITA Nos. 3328 to 3332/Del./2015 & SA Nos.315 to 319/Del./2015 9 6.9 It is
clear that the transaction, in issue, would fall within the provisions of
section 194H only if there is;
(i) a principle-agent relationship between Tata Teleservices Ltd. (TTSL) and
Channel Partners;
(ii) the payments made by TTSL to Channel Partners, who is a resident is an
income by way of commission;
(iii) the income by way of commission should be paid by TTSL to Channel
Partners for services rendered by the latter or for any services in the course
of buying or selling of goods and, (iv) the income by way of commission may be
received or be receivable by the Channel Partners from TTSL either directly or
indirectly.
6.10 Thus first question that needs to be answered is whether there exists a
principal and agent relationship between TTSL and its Channel Partners. For
this purpose it would be relevant to analyse the definition of an agent in
section 182 of the Contract Act. Section 182 of the Act states that:-
"An agent is a person employed to do any act for another or to represent
another in dealings with third persons. The person for whom said act is done,
or who is so represented, is called the principal."
6.11 It is clear from the definition that an agency comes into existence where
one person is vested with the authority or capacity to create a legal
relationship between person referred to as a principal and an outside third
party. Therefore, the basic and essential requisites of an agency ordinarily
would be that:
(i) The agent makes the principal answerable to third persons whereby the
principal can sue third parties directly and renders himself, that is, the
principal, liable to be sued directly by the third parties. (Reference: Varsha
Engineering Pvt. Ltd vs Vijay Traders & Ors AIR 1983 Guj 166 at pages 168-169,
para 5).
(ii) The person who purports to enter into a transaction on behalf of the
principal would have the power to create, modify or terminate contractual
relationship between his principal, that is, the person whom he represents,
and the third parties. (Reference: P. Krishna Bhatta & Ors. Vs. Mundila
Ganapathi Bhatta (died) & Ors. AIR 1955 Mad 648 at page 651, para 36).
(iii) An agent, though bound by instructions given to him by the principal
does not work under the direct control and supervision of the principal, The
agent thus uses his own discretion to act on behalf of the principal subject
to the limits to his authority prescribed by the principal. (Reference:
Lakshminarayan Ram Gopal & Son Ltd i/sThe Government of Hyderabad AIR 1954 SC
364 at page 367, paragraphs 11 & 12\. This cited with the approval in Qamar
Shaffi Tyabji vs The Commissioner/ Excess Profit Tax, Hyderabad (1960) 39 ITR
611 (SC) at pages 615 & 616\.
6.12 In order to apply the above test to the nature of transaction between
TTSL and Channel Partners, it would be necessary to peruse the various clauses
of the agreement between TTSL and its Channel Partners. TTSL has put on record
such as ITA Nos. 3328 to 3332/Del./2015 & SA Nos.315 to 319/Del./2015 10
agreement between it and M/s Goel Agencies, 1/40, Punjabi Bagh (W) New Delhi-
110026\. The agreement broadly defines the arrangement in the following
manner:-
(i) TTSL appoints Channel Partners for the marketing, distribution of its
Product and Services (clause 'n' of sub section 1. Definition) in the
geographical limits specified by TTSL, subject to terms and conditions laid
down by TTSL.
(ii) The Channel Partner will also pay an interest free security deposit and
[clauses 6.1,4 and 8.5 (viii) which is determined by TTSL.
(iii) Full legal rights and interest in all the product and services shall
remain at all times with TTSL (Clause 1(h), 1(1)] and all IPR including
trademarks, design etc. will be the exclusive property of TTSL and the channel
Partner will not have any right/ownership on it (Clause 13.1).
(iv) Channel Partners shall appoint retailers/dealers in the service area as
per the approval of TTSL (Clause 8.4 (vi)).
(v) TTSL reserves exclusive right to bring about charges in terms and
condition of the agreement with Channel Partners (Clause 2.3),
(vi) Marketing Standards will be as per the specification laid down by TTSL
{Clause 8.5 (ii),(iv)(v),(vi).
(vii) The Channel Partners shall not misuse the confidential information about
consumers collected by it and trade secrets of TTSL (Clause 8.4 (v)).
(viii) The rates and values of SIM Cards/recharge vouchers etc. shall be as
per the policy of TTSL and shall be subjected to change/modification, at the
sole discretion of TTSL. Channel Partners shall remain bound by the prices as
fixed or charged by TTSL (Clause 8.7, 8.8).
(ix) TTSL will lay down the targets and also lay down performance criteria and
the functioning of Channel Partners will be judged by TTSL on the basis of
these criteria. (Clause 9).
(x) TTSL shall have the exclusive right to terminate the business arrangement
by written notice to Channel Partners and then the Channel Partners shall
return to TTSL all information of customers/subscribers and other material
pertaining to products and services (clause 14.1 (ii), (iii), (iv), (v), (vi))
6.13 It is also relevant to point out that the agreement that the appellant
has entered into with its Channel Partners are in relation to both products
and ancillary services. A particular Channel Partners is marketing &
distributing both. Moreover the discounts are offered on purchase of products
i.e. SIM Cards/Recharge vouchers, for further distribution.
6.14 The ownership/legal and equitable title and interest in SIM
Cards/Recharge vouchers remains with the appellant. The distributors are
supposed to store the SIM ITA Nos. 3328 to 3332/Del./2015 & SA Nos.315 to
319/Del./2015 11 Cards/Recharge Coupons in such a way as to clearly indicate
at all times that these are owned by TTSL and is not allowed to remove,
obscure, delete any mark placed on the SIM Cards. The distributor is also not
free to sell the similar products offered by competitors company.
6.15 Also the owner of the SIM Cards/Recharge Coupons is the appellant as it
is operating under the right of a licence agreement entered into with DOT. The
SIM Cards is in the nature of a key to the consumer to have access to the
telephone network established and operated by the appellant. Since the SIM
Cards is only a device to have access to the mobile phone network there is no
question of passing of any ownership or title of the goods from the appellant
to the distributor or from the distributors to the ultimate consumer. The
Channel Partners or distributor is only acting as a link in the chain of
service providers. For this the distributors are making advance payment for
the delivery of SIM Cards and other products.
6.16 It is pertinent to note that even if the distributor makes bulk purchase
of SIM Cards/Recharge Vouchers, the right to use these products to get access
to the phone network of the appellant is given only to the ultimate consumer
who activates the connection by using the secret number provided in the SIM
Cards.
6.17 It is only for the ultimate consumer or the appellant who has the
authority to uncover the secret number and activate the SIM Cards. Thus the
argument given by the appellant that once delivery of SIM Cards is taken, it
becomes the absolute property of the distributors is fallacious and
misconceived.
6.18 The various clauses of the agreement mentioned above clearly indicate
that ownership of these products are never transferred to the Channel
Partners. Hence the transaction in question is not sale & purchase between the
appellant and Channel Partners. The Channel Partners are appointed as
distributors and are offered discount on the products, The discounts thus are
in the nature of commission or brokerage.
6.19 From the above discussion on various parameters of the agreement, it is
also established that the Channel Partners acts on behalf of TTSL whereby a
legal relationship is established between TTSL and the third party i.e. the
consumers. By entering into such a legal relationship on behalf of the
principal and by issuing the products to a third party through authorized
retailers the Channel Partner makes TTSL liable to a legal action by the cell
phone users i.e. the third parties. Similarly by virtue of such a transaction
i.e. by the Channel Partners to third parties, the principal i.e. TTSL is
enabled to sue the third party which is the cell phone user or authorized
retailers. It is also evident from a reading of clauses 1(h), 8.4, 13.1 and
18,1 of the agreement, that the cell phone connection or recharge coupons and
other product at all times, remain the property of TTSL.
6.20 TTSL also reserves the right to appoint one or more distributors in a
given area and can review the commission structure and other terms and
condition on the basis of changes in telecom. market which the Channel
Partners will have to abide to (Ciause 2.1, 2.2, 2.3). The Channel Partners is
not independent in making decision ITA Nos. 3328 to 3332/Del./2015 & SA
Nos.315 to 319/Del./2015 12 with respect to marketing and distribution
standards, appointment of dealers/retailers, place of business but has to
carry out its duties as underlined by TTSL in its Operational Manual (Clause
8.5 (ii) (iv) (vi) (vii) (ix)) Any negligence on part of the Channel Partners
in market and distribution of service products would render it liable to TTSL,
the service provider (Clause 14.1) 6.21 Perusal of clauses 8.1, 8.5 (ii),
(iv), (vi), (vii), (is), 8.8 & 8.10 clearly indicate that the Channel Partners
has no right over the product. Hence the claim of the appellant that there is
a principal to principal relationship between TTSL and the Channel Partners is
fallacious.
6.22 As a matter of fact, since the SIM Cards/recharge coupon etc are issued
by Channel Partners on behalf of TTSL, who is the provider of cell phone
connections and other ancillary services, it holds the Channel Partners
harmless and is obliged to indemnify the Channel Partners for any loss caused
on account of any failure to provide such service contracted for by the
Channel Partners on behalf of TTSL (Clause 14.2).
6.23 Vide submission dated 11.02.2015, the appellant has stated that, it has
duly deducted TDS on all payments made towards services rendered by the
Channel Partners which are in the nature of commission. In addition to the
services rendered, there are certain distinct and separate trading
transactions where the Channel Partners have made bulk-purchase of the
appellant's products after making the full payment before taking the delivery
of the said products. At the time of the bulk purchases of these products the
appellant has allowed the cash discounts on which it has a reasonable cause
and a bonafide based on the legal positions that there is no application of
TDS under the Act. Under no circumstances can the aforesaid two transactions
be clubbed together to hold that discount/margin so allowed to the Channel
Partners is commission for their services being rendered to be covered under
section 194H."
6.24 In view of the above submission it would be relevant to analyse whether
any income way of commission has been paid by the appellant to the Channel
Partners, it is not disputed that any amount which the Channel Partners would
receive over and above the value of RCVs/SUKs and other ancillary product,
charged by TTSL would be assessed in the hands of the Channel Partners as
profits, gains or income. Vide submission dated 11.02.2015, the Id AR has
twisted the facts as per his convenience. It has been claimed that the nature
of transaction between Channel Partners and TTSL are 'trading transaction'
whereby Channel Partners make bulk purchase of the products after making full
payments before taking delivering of the products on which discounts are
offered. Thus the Id AR has tried to claim that the relationship between the
appellant and its Channel Partners are like that of a manufacturer and its
wholesalers. This claim is illogical as in view of the agreement (supra)
between TTSL and Channel Partners, the SIM Cards/RCVs continue to remain the
property of TTSL In the present case the Channel Partners are functioning as
distributors who are in a principal to agent relationship with the TTSL
whereas in case of wholesalers there is no relationship with the manufactures.
The Id AR of the appellant has mingled all these positions so as to justify
the claim of the appellant.
ITA Nos. 3328 to 3332/Del./2015 & SA Nos.315 to 319/Del./2015 13 6.25 The
contention that monies charged over and above the discounted value charged by
TTSL from the Channel Partners are in the nature of discount rather than
commission is not tenable. The fact that this is a payment which the Channel
Partners receives from the retailers by virtue of sale of the items of which
TTSL is the owner, at a point till the transaction is made, clearly
establishes that it is a commission and not Discount. The word 'discount1 is
normally used to describe a deduction from the full amount or value of
something especially a price, whereas a commission is defined in Explanation
(i) to section 194H as any payment received or receivable, directly or
indirectly by an agent for services rendered acting on behalf of the
principal. In view of the fact that the payment earned by the Channel Partners
is inextricably linked to the sale of the SUKs/RCVs, it cannot but lead to the
conclusion that the payment earned over and above the discounted value fixed
by TTSL is indirectly, a commission within the meaning of section 194H of the
Act. this is especially so, as at no point in time (as discussed above) the
Channel Partners obtain proprietary rights to the SUKs/RCVs the price fixed by
TTSL and paid by Channel Partners are merely advance payments to be collected
from retailers on which the Channel Partners have already got a deduction. The
value or price of the SUKs/RCVs received by the Channel Partners for the
services promised by TTSL by virtue of its operational facility is charged
from the retailers, who is turn charge the same from customers, in trust of
service promised by TTSL. Thus the money charged by the Channel Partners is
commission within the meaning of section 194H of the Act. The transaction is a
. singular transaction which is executed between the Channel Partners while
acting on behalf of the principal cell phone service provider or TTSL, in
selling the SUKs/RCVs to a third party (through retailers) which is the cell
phone user, and thereby creating a legal relationship between the principal
i.e. TTSL and the third party which is the customer who purchases cell phone
connection.
6.26 The contention of the appellant that the Delhi High Court judgment in the
case of Idea Cellular Ltd., 325 ITR 145 (Del) is not applicable to the present
case, is also not acceptable as in view of analysis and discussions in the
preceding paras by me. I hold that the facts of the present case are very much
similar to that of the case of Idea Cellular.
6.27 After considering the arguments put forth by the appellant during
appellate proceedings and after perusing the provision of the agreement, it
leaves no doubt whatsoever that the relationship between TTSL and Channel
Partners is that of a principal and agent. I have also considered the judgment
of Delhi, Kolkata & Kerala High Court in the case of Ideal Cellular Ltd. 325
ITR 148 (Del), Bharti Cellular Ltd. Vs ACIT 244 CTR 185 (Cal) and Vodafone
Esaar Cellular Ltd. Vs ACIT (2009) 317 ITR (AT) 234 (Cochin), I hold that the
discounts allowed and incentives given by the appellant to its Channel
Partners on sale of its products is in the nature of commission and the same
attracts the provision of section 194H of the Act. During appellate
proceedings the Id AR has quoted the judgment of Karnataka High Court which is
in favour of appellant. It would be pertinent to state that the said judgment
has not been accepted by Revenue and the judicial pronouncement has been
contended before the Supreme Court. The SLP proposed by Revenue has been
admitted by the Apex Court ITA Nos. 3328 to 3332/Del./2015 & SA Nos.315 to
319/Del./2015 14 which proves that the issue is alive and debatable.
Considering all these facts, Ground No. 1, 4 to 10 are dismissed.
On the second issue, the ld. CIT(A) observed as under :
11\. Ground No. 12.13.14 & 15:- In respect of these Grounds Ld AR of the
appellant pleaded that the AO raised demand on account of TDS liability u/s
194J on payment made for Interconnect Usage Charges (IUC) to other operators.
The appellant has also contended in Ground No. 14, that the AO did not provide
the appellant with the opportunity to cross examine the statement of technical
experts.
11.1 In the remand report dated 04.02.2014 and 02.06.2014 the AO has submitted
that:
The applicability of Section 194J of the Act on the payments towards
Interconnect Usage Charges (IUC) was inflicted purely based on the statement
of expert recorded to ascertain the human intervention during the process of
carriage of calls through interconnect of networks of two operators. Also, it
was stated before the Id CIT(A) that the appellant was denied proper
opportunity to cross examine the experts who have asserted the involvement of
human on the said process. Secondly, it was submitted that, without prejudice
on non application of any TDS on IUC payouts, audited certificates/self
relevant taxes by various payees and same may be accepted as additional
evidence.
Further, it is submitted that, as has been directed by the Hon'ble Apex Court
in the case of Vodafone Essar Mobile Service Ltd. (one of the Petitioners) in
Civil Appeal No. 6692 dated 12.08.2010 for F.Y. 2002-03, statement of experts
on the relevant field was recorded on oath administered by the ACIT,
Circle-51(1), New Delhi and taken by Shri Tanay Krishna [Group Leader (Project
Planning), C-D077 & Shri Ashok Mittal [Group Leader(CLH),C-DOT} on 29.09.2010.
Based on the above statement, order u/s 201 of the Act was passed in FY
2002-03 in the case of Vodafone Essar Mobile Services which categorically
elucidates the vast exercise of obtaining experts opinion though was not
carried out in the case of Tata Teleservices Ltd. prominence could very well
be drawn in the case of Tata Teleservices Ltd. as well considering the
backdrop of the case.
Nevertheless, considering the paucity of time left during the proceedings u/s
201(1) of the Act of FY 2006-07, the expert's opinion was not cross examined
by M/s Tata Teleservices Ltd. for the following convincing reason:
• It is pertinent to report here that, considering the non compliance during
the course of proceedings u/s 201(1) of the Act, the then AO had to issue a
letter dated 11.03.2011 on this count and the case was again fixed for hearing
for 14.03.2011 alongwith a remark therewith that the proceedings would be
completed based on material available on record.
• In response to the letter dated 11.03.2011, the ARs of M/s Tata Teieservices
Ltd. filed its letter dated 17.03.2011 wherein it was emphasized that the
issue of notice u/s 201(1) of the Act was bad in law considering the
provisions of section 201(3) of the Act and ITA Nos. 3328 to 3332/Del./2015 &
SA Nos.315 to 319/Del./2015 15 requested to withdraw the same. No details
whatsoever with regard to the details of TDS on IUC were filed.
• Subsequently, the then AO vide letter dated 18.03.2011, rejected the
objections raised to the issuance of notice u/s 201(1) of the Act and directed
to deductor company to comply with the requirements and the case was adjourned
to 22.03.2011.
• Again, vide letter dated 23.03.2011, it was submitted that during the FY
2006-07, the company was operating telecom services under CDMA technology
which did not provide any roaming facility to its subscribers on any other
operator's network and hence there were no inter-operator network and hence
there were no inter-operator payments for roaming charges n this account and
on request, the case was adjourned on 25.03.2011.
• Yet again, vide order sheet entry dated 25.03.2011, the ARs were asked as to
whether any tax was deducted u/s 194J of the Act on IUC charges and the case
was further adjourned to 28.03.2011.
• Further, during the proceedings u/s 201(1) of the Act, the then AO correctly
recorded her displeasure in order sheet entry dated 28.03.2011 over the action
of ARs of the deductor company in not complying with the requirements as
called for repeatedly with reference to the details of TDS on IUC charges. The
then AO further conveyed the limitation of the proceedings which was duly
acknowledged by the ARs vide order sheet entry dated 28.03.2011 and the case
was again adjourned to 29.03.2011.
• The then AO vide order sheet entry dated 29.03.2011 observed that the tax
u/s 194J of the Act was partly deducted on UC and hence, required the ARs to
show cause as to why it should not be treated as an assessee in default.
Accordingly, the case was adjourned to 30.03.201 1.
• The reply filed vide letter dated 30.03.2011 were duly considered and was
taken on record and duly discussed n Paragraph No. 4 of the order u/s
201(1)/201(1A) of the Act passed on 30.03.2011.
From the above, it can been seen that, despite of non compliance on various
dates during proceedings u/s 201(1) of the Act in FY 2006-07, the ARs of the
deductor company disclosed the details of TDS on IUC for the first time in its
.letter dated 29.03.2011. Till then, the deductor company never provided any
detail with respect of the TDS on IUC charges, rather the deductor company
denied the applicability of TDS on IUC charges till 23.03.201 1.Therefore, it
is clear that the deductor company had driven the proceedings to the fag-end
of the FY. It can also be seen from the above facts that the Revenue did not
deny the opportunity of cross examination of the expert's opinion during the
proceedings, but it was the ARs of the deductor company ,iv/70 had taken the
proceedings till 30.03.2011 by not complying with the requirements during the
proceedings and not disclosing and providing the TDS made on IUC charges till
29.03.2011.
ITA Nos. 3328 to 3332/Del./2015 & SA Nos.315 to 319/Del./2015 16 In view of
the facts, during the appellate proceedings, the deductor company has no
ground to take the plea of granting no opportunity to cross examine the
expert's opinion on IUC. This ground may kindly be rejected accordingly
considering the facts of the case."
11.2 After considering the remand report and the rejoinder filed by the
appellant it is observed that during assessment proceedings u/s 201(1)/201(1A)
of the Act, the AO noticed that TTSL has not deducted TDS on account of
payment to various parties for the IUC paid to them. The ld AO considered the
submission of the appellant which was filed during assessment proceedings and
gave a detailed finding and also considered the direction of Hon'ble Supreme
Court in Civil appeal no. 6692 dated 12.08.2010. Following the Hon'ble Court
decision the AO considered the expert opinion recorded by ACIT, Circle-51(1),
New Delhi in order passed u/s 201(1) dated 13.12.2010 for F.Y. 2002-03, which
is detailed from pages 7 to 20 of the assessment order.
11.3 It is observed from perusal of page 6 and 7 of the assessment order dated
30.03.2011 that the appellant was regularly appearing before the AO and could
have given opinion on the subject. Moreover the relevant findings in the
exercise carried out consequence to the direction of the Apex Court by ACIT,
Circle-51 (1) was relied upon by the AO as the facts of the present case was
similar to that of Vodafone Essar Mobile Service Ltd.
11.4 Perusal of details submitted during appellate proceedings as well as r _
AO's order dated 30.03.2011, it is observed that the entire process of
carriage and transfer of calls from the network of one operator to another
though being - an automated process undertaken by a series of highly advanced
telecom network equipment, still requires constant human intervention in form
of configuration, installation, testing etc. in the order to make the process
of carriage of calls effectively operational. Moreover after analysing the
reason why expert opinion was not cross verified by TTSL given by the AO in
remand report. I see no reason to interfere with the observations of the AO in
this connection.
11.5 Thus I observe that the Id AO has correctly taken the view that TDS is
required to be deducted on payments made to various parties/service providers
for ILJC charges as the same constitutes fees for technical services u/s 194J
of the IT. Act. Therefore Ground No. 12 to 15 stand dismissed.
11.6 However, before me during appellate proceedings, the Id AR has taken the
alternative plea (Ground No. 5) that the in the case of operators to whom
payments towards IDC charges have been made, TDS has not been deducted as the
deductees income were exempted from TDS. Vide submission dated 12.03.2015, the
AR has filed copies of tax exemption certificate issued u/s 197 of the Act is
favour of Bharti Airtel Ltd., M/s BSNL, M/s Reliance Infocom Ltd. & M/s Idea
Cellular Ltd. In the case of Hutchison Essar (to whom payment of Rs.
12,06,69,183/- has been made), Tata Communication (to whom payment of Rs.
44,10,85,189A has been made) and Reliance Communication (to whom payment of
Rs. 15,62,20;843/- has been made) no evidence is brought on record to prove
that TDS has been deducted or the exemption u/s 197 is ITA Nos. 3328 to
3332/Del./2015 & SA Nos.315 to 319/Del./2015 17 not available hence the
payments made on account of IUC charges for these service providers would be
subject to TDS u/s 194J. For non deduction of TDS u/s 194J in the case of
payment of IUC charges to Reliance Communication, Hutchison Essar and Tata
Communication, the appellant will be considered assessee in default u/s 201(1)
of the Act.
7\. The ld. AR of the assessee filed a detailed written synopsis before us,
which we think appropriate to reproduce hereunder:
> Deduction under Section 194J
> 1\. The issue of deduction of tax at source on Inter-Connect Usage Charges
> ('IUC') which a telecom operator pays to another has been decided by this
> Tribunal in the case of Bharti Airtel v. ITO (TDS) [2016] 60 Taxmann.com 223
> (Delhi Tri). Further, the decisions of the Bangalore and Jaipur Tribunal in
> favour of the assessee have been affirmed by the Hon'ble Karnataka High
> Court in CIT, Bangalore v. Vodafone South Ltd [2016] 72 taxmann.com 347
> (Kar) and M/s Hindustan Coco-Cola Beverages v. Jaipur (decision dated
> 11.07.2017 in DB ITA 205/2005). The decisions of Mumbai Tribunal, Kolkata
> Tribunal and Patna Tribunal are also in favour of the assessee. Thus demand
> for non-deduction of TDS on IUC under Section 194J is not proper. This
> Tribunal in case of Bharat Sanchar Nigam Ltd., vs. Addl. CIT, New Delhi, in
> ITA No. 920/Del./2017 decision dated 25.10.2017 {"the BSNL Tribunal case")
> has also held that Section 194J is not attracted to the IUC payments and
> that there is no liability to deduct tax. Thus, the issue be decided in
> favour of the Appellant and appeal be allowed.
> Deduction under Section 194H
> 2\. The Appellant in course of its business supply the SIM Cards and
> Recharge Vouchers to its distributors (also referred to as the channel
> partners). That the primary agreement with the channel partners is to buy &
> sell Appellant's products on a principal to principal basis [clause 2.4 of
> the Distributor Agreement @pg. 83 of the paper book]; the Appellant sells
> its product to channel partners allowing discount on the primary
> transaction, which the channel partners were free to sell to sub-channel
> partners/retailers at any price not exceeding the Maximum Retail Price
> (MRP). There is no payment nor any sum credited by the Appellant to the
> channel partners, as the amount under consideration is discount allowed at
> the time of sale of starter kits and Recharge Vouchers. The Purchase of
> these products are accounted at net price paid.
> 3\. Under the agreement, the channel partners purchase Appellant's products
> in bulk and generates income from further sale of these products to their
> retailers/customers. The discount allowed to the channel partners cannot be
> equated as income in the hands of the distributors and therefore, the very
> fundamental requirement of Section 194H is missing. [@pg. 445-446 of the
> paper book; also recorded in the CIT(A)'s order @pg. 52-53].
4\. There is a transaction of sale and payment of applicable Sales Tax/VAT on
goods involved in the transaction. The sales tax authority is assessing and
collecting Sales ITA Nos. 3328 to 3332/Del./2015 & SA Nos.315 to 319/Del./2015
18 Tax/VAT on the sale of products to the Distributor which substantiate that
there is sale. [@pg 448-449, 452 of the paper book].
5\. The Karnataka High Court in Bharti Airtel Ltd. vs. CIT, Anr., [2015] 372
ITR 33 (Karn) while considering an identical issue in the facts of the
Appellant has inter alia held that 'right to service can be sold' and as such
the supply of sim cards and recharge vouchers can be on the basis of principal
to principal and in the facts of the case, there would not be a relationship
of agency. The Hon'ble High Court has further held that where the transaction
is recorded net of discount price, there shall be no liability to deduct tax.
Similar view has been taken by the Rajasthan High Court in the case of the
Appellant itself in M/s Hindustan Coco-Cola Beverages v. Jaipur (decision
dated 11.07.2017 in DB ITA 205/2005).
6\. The Karnataka High Court in Bharti Airtel Ltd. (supra) distinguished the
other decisions at Paras 56 to 58 to hold that principal to principal
relations exists in the facts before them as the right to service, being the
prepaid talk time, is being sold to the distributor who then further sells it
or uses it for himself and earns an income only when the same is sold is for a
profit (refer to para 59 and 62).
7\. Further, it is submitted that the Karnataka High Court has given an
explicit finding (at Para 62) that there is a sale of transfer of right to
service as per the agreements before them which establish that there exists a
principal to principal relationship between the assessees and the
distributors.
8\. The decision of the Hon'ble Delhi High Court in CIT vs. Idea Cellular,
[2010] 325 ITR 148 (Delhi) ("Idea Cellular") is not applicable to the facts
and circumstances of the case, following are the points of differences between
the two transactions/ cases:
i. No argument that the 'right to avail service can be sold' was ever raised
or considered by the Hon'ble High Court in Idea Cellular (supra). The decision
in Idea proceeded on the basis that the transaction was one of service and
service can only be rendered and not sold. The issue that a right to avail
service can be traded was neither raised nor considered by the court. If a
point is not raised or considered, the judgment cannot be said to have decided
that issue.
ii. The discounts allowed to the channel partners are at the time of bulk-
purchase of the Appellant's products by the channel partners on a principal to
principal basis, however, in Idea cellular, counsel for both the parties
agreed that determination of element of agency was the essence of the dispute.
iii. In the Idea Cellular(supra) the transaction was not that of sale and
purchase as the ownership of the SIM cards remained with the assessee and
there was no payment of any Sales Tax/VAT, however, in the Appellant's case
the transaction under consideration is a trading transaction, the ownership of
the SIM cards are duly transferred at the time of sale to the channel partners
as evident from the intent and conduct of the business and there is due
discharge of Sales Tax/VAT on the sale of goods.
ITA Nos. 3328 to 3332/Del./2015 & SA Nos.315 to 319/Del./2015 19 iv. Further,
in Idea Cellular (supra) the distributors were not allowed to appoint
retailers without approval of Idea and Idea can terminate the agreement with
the distributors unilaterally, however, in the Appellant's case here the
relationship is that of principal to principal these conditions does not
exist. Nothing in the agreement deems to constitute distributors as an agent,
employee or partner of the joint venture or affiliate of the Appellant in any
manner. The distributors shall have no authority to bind the Appellant in any
respect.
v. In case of Idea Cellular, legal title and interest of the products have
never been transferred to the distributors and remains with the Idea. Further,
distributors are also bound with specific conditions regarding the
storage/display of the products, however, in the Appellant's case the title is
passed to the distributor immediately on the acceptance of delivery to the
distributor's warehouse and there are no conditions regarding storage/display
of products. [Refer to submission dated 11.02.2015 @pg. 452-456 of the paper
book].
vi. In case of Idea Cellular, there was neither a separate payment nor
deduction of tax on activities carried out on behalf of Idea. Whereas, in the
present facts, it is undisputed that separate amounts on which IDS has been
deducted has been paid. A chart distinguishing the case of Idea Cellular
(supra) from the case of the Appellant is produced below for reference:
    Sr.   Heading        Extract of Delhi      In the case of Idea           In the case of Tata
    No.                  HC Idea Judgment      Cellular Limited              Teleservices       Limited
                                               ("Idea")                      ("TTSL")
    1.    Business       Para     2:   "the    - Idea          is        a   - TTSL is engaged in the
          Model          assesse company       Telecom Operator i.e.         business of trading in
                         is engaged in         holder     of      telecom    telecom products.
                         the                   licenses, issued         by   - TTSL sells in bulk SIM
                         business        of    Department               of   cards ('SUK')          &
                         providing             Telecommunication,            Recharge        Voucher
                         cellular              Government of India.          ('RCV'}
                         telephone             - Idea is engaged in the      - TTSL sell aforesaid SUK
                         network               business of rendering         products to distributors
                         through a             telecom           services    by shifting the title ship
                         card                  through       its      own    right in the product.
                         called                telecom network.              - Distributors further sell
                         Subscriber                                          the    products      to
                         Identification        - For            rendering    retailers and finally
                         Module (SIM)          its      services,     Idea   retailers sell these
                                               appoints      distributors    products      to    end
                                               and transfer 'SIM cards'      customers       charging
                                               &                 'recharge   VAT the SUKs.
                                               coupons'       ('products)    - In pursuant to each sale
                                               to distributors without       all rights of title/
                                               relinquishing the rights      interest and risk for loss
                                               of title and interest.        are        transferred.
                                                                             (Discussed in detail in
                                ITA Nos. 3328 to 3332/Del./2015 & SA Nos.315 to 319/Del./2015      20
                                              -           Distributors Point No. 2)
                                              further          appoint
                                              retailers     with the
                                              permission of Idea
                                              and the aforesaid
                                              products finally
                                              transferred to customer
                                              through
                                              retailers.
    2    Transfer       Para 8: "Full legal- In case of Idea, legal    - In case of TTSL, title and
         of Title       and equitable titletitle and interest of the   risk of loss or damage to the
         and Risk       and interest in    products have       never   products passed to          the
                        prepaid SIM Card   been transferred to         distributor       immediately
                        and recharge       distributors and            upon acceptance of delivery
                        coupons            Remains with Idea.          at       the      distributor's
                        delivered to the   Further,     distributors   warehouse. There are no
                        distributors at allare also bound with         conditions           regarding
                        time remains with  specific      conditions    storage/display of products.
                        the assesse."      regarding                   - The above fact is
                                           storage/display of these    documented in distributor
                        "The distributors products.                    agreement.
                        store the SIM Card                             - TTSL will ship the Products
                        and       recharge                             as per the purchase orders
                        coupons in such a                              ("PO")     raised     by    the
                        way as to clearly                              Distributor and the Products
                        indicate at all                                will be shipped by TTSL
                        times that the                                 'Free on road' ("FOR")
                        prepaid SIM card/                              destination basis to the
                        recharge coupons                               Distributor's       designated
                        are owned by ICL                               warehouse or location space
                        and is not allowed                             on the distributor's PO. TTSL
                        to         remove,                             will be responsible for all
                        obscure or delete                              freight      charges        and
                        any mark placed                                insurance cover till the
                        on prepaid SIM                                 Products        reach       the
                        card/     recharge                             Distributor's warehouse.
                        coupons/'                                      - Title and risk of loss or
                                                                       damage in the Products will
                                                                       pass to the Distributor upon
                                                                       acceptance of deliver at the
                                                                       Distributor's warehouse. The
                                                                       Distributor should not reject
                                                                       the products once shipped
                                                                       by TTSL pursuant to PO
                                                                       issued by the Distributor.
    3.   Relationship   Para 8: "PMA is       The Hon'ble HC hold -In case of TTSL, which
         with           allowed to            that      relationship relationship is principal to
         Distributor    appoint the           between   Idea     and principal, these conditions
                                 ITA Nos. 3328 to 3332/Del./2015 & SA Nos.315 to 319/Del./2015               21
                         retails only after    distributors    is    of        do not exist.
                         the written           principal and agent
                         approval from the     based     on     certain        -The               Distributor
                         assessee.             conditions         which        acknowledges       that     the
                                               generally prevail in            Distributor is appointed for
                         The PMA has to        agency relationship             the purpose of performing
                         provide monthly                                       the obligations of the
                         sales reports         -Distributors are not           Distributor as set out in the
                         return and other      allowed to appoint              Agreement. Nothing in the
                         information           retailers       without         Agreement         deem        to
                         relating to           approval of Idea.               constitute a Distributor as an
                         business                                              agent employee or partner
                                               -Distributors have to           or joint venture or affiliate of
                         Company               provide          monthly        TTSL in any manner. The
                         reserves the right    reports to Idea.                Distributor shall have no
                         to terminate the                                      authority to bind TTSL in any
                         agreement             Idea can terminate the          respect whatsoever and shall
                         unilaterally"         agreement         with          not hold itself out as owned
                                               distributors                    by or associated with TTSL
                                               unilaterally.                   other than as an independent
                                                                               distributor authorized and
                                                                               permitted      to    promote,
                                                                               market, distribute and sell
                                                                               the Product in accordance
                                                                               with     the     terms      and
                                                                               conditions of the Agreement.
                                                                               None of the employees of the
                                                                               Distributor       shall      be
                                                                               construed or deemed to be
                                                                               the employees or agent of
                                                                               TTSL at any time and the
                                                                               Distributor      agrees       to
                                                                               indemnify TTSL against any
                                                                               claim, action or loss or
                                                                               damages whatsoever in this
                                                                               connection.
    4.   Payment of      Para     8:    "the   The Hon'ble HC has              -TTSL transfers these products
         Sales tax/VAT   transaction      in   considered payment of           to its consignment agent under
                         question was not      Sales Tax, inter alia, as one   stock transfer note of various
                         that of sale and      of the determinant to           locations at PAN India level. The
                         purchase between      decide the relationship. It     appellant duly reflects these
                         the assessee and      has been held that              stock transfers in its VAT return
                         the PMAs and for      transaction in question is      for which the consignment
                         this   reason,   no   not sale and purchase as        agent provides F-Form, issued
                         Sales tax was even    no sales tax has even been      by State VAT department in
                         paid."                paid.                           favour of the appellant.
                                                                               -Therefore, consignment agent
                                                                               acting on behalf of the appellant
                                                                               sells    these    products     to
                                                                               distributors under valid tax
                                                                               invoice after charging applied
                                                                               VAT.
ITA Nos. 3328 to 3332/Del./2015 & SA Nos.315 to 319/Del./2015 22 Therefore,
the conclusions of the Hon'ble Delhi High Court in Idea Cellular (supra) will
not apply in the present case. Reliance in this regard may be placed on the
following:
o Union of India vs. Chajju Ram, (2003) 5 SCC 568 @ para 23 states that "a
decision is an authority for what it decides and not what can be logically
deduced therefrom. It is equally well settled that a little difference in
facts or additional facts may lead to a different conclusion.
o CCE vs. Alnoori Tobacco Products and Anr., (2004) 6 SCC 186- The Hon'ble
Supreme Court of India relying on its earlier decision and some English
decisions by the House of Lords held that a decision cannot be relied upon if
the factual situation of the decision relied upon is different from that of
the case in discussion. The Court further held that "Circumstantial
flexibility, one additional or different fact may make a world of difference
between conclusions in two cases. Disposal of cases by blindly placing
reliance on a decision is not proper" (Refer to paras 11 to 14).
o Bharat Sanchar Nigam v. Union of India (2006) 3 SCC 1 There is no
constructive res judicata in tax proceedings. Where a new ground is urged, the
Court has to consider it on merits if it has not been raised earlier. (Para
16, 20) • If the parties intend that the SIM card would be a separate object
of sale, it would be open to the Sales Tax Authority to levy Sales Tax. (Para
87)
9\. Further, decision in the case of Bharat Sanchar Nigam Ltd., vs. Addl. CIT,
New Delhi, in ITA No. 920/Del./2017 decided on 25.10.2017 ("the BSNL Tribunal
case") cannot be made applicable to the Appellant w.r.t liability under
Section 194H of the Act, as:
i. In the Appellant's case the transaction under consideration is a
transaction of sale and applicable Sales Tax/VAT on SIM Cards has been paid by
the Appellant. This fact was neither under consideration in the BSNL Tribunal
case (supra) nor Idea Cellular (supra). Thus, where the parties to a contract
have considered the sale of SIM Cards and recharge vouchers as sale, the same
cannot be considered as a service in view of decision of the Hon'ble Supreme
Court in BSNL (supra) (Para 87).
ii. The Hon'ble Tribunal in BSNL Tribunal case (supra) has not considered the
view taken by the Rajasthan High Court in the case of the Appellant itself in
Commissioner of Income Tax (TDS), Jaipur vs. M/s Tata Teleservices Limited,
(decision dated 11.07.2017 in DB ITA No. 124,125,126,131 and 132 of 2015)
wherein identical terms and conditions, the Hon'ble Rajasthan High Court in
Appellant's own case has held that the agreement is one of principal to
principal. It is pertinent to note that the agreements in BSNL Tribunal case/
Idea cellular (supra) are different from the agreement of the Appellant.
iii. The Appellant in the present case has been deducting appropriate IDS on
all commission/incentives or credits allowed to the channel partners for any
ancillary or connected services apart from the primary arrangement. [@pg. 445
of the paper ITA Nos. 3328 to 3332/Del./2015 & SA Nos.315 to 319/Del./2015 23
book], whereas, no such deduction/declaration was made by the assessee in the
BSNL Tribunal case.
iv. The argument that 'right to avail service' can be sold was neither raised
nor argued before the Hon'ble Delhi High Court in Idea Cellular (supra) and as
such cannot be considered as ratio decidendi which is binding on the Hon'ble
Tribunal. Reliance can be placed on the decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court
in Commissioner of Income Tax vs. Sun Engineering Works (P) Ltd. (1992) 4 SCC
363, wherein the Hon'ble apex court observed as below:
"It is neither desirable nor permissible to pick out a word or a sentence from
the judgment of this Court, divorced from the context of the question under
consideration and treat it to be the complete 'law' declared by this Court...
A decision of this Court takes its colour from the questions involved in the
case in which it is rendered and white applying the decision to a later case,
the courts must carefully try to ascertain the true principle laid down by the
decision of this Court and not to pick out words or sentences from the
judgment, divorced from the context of the questions under consideration by
this Court, to support their reasonings."
Further, it is submitted that the Hon'ble Tribunal, Kolkata Bench in Vodafone
East Ltd. vs. DOT, (TDS) in ITA Nos. 1499-1502/Kol/2015 and 136-137/Kol/2016
decision dated 26.10.2017, decided the issue in the assessee's favour on the
basis of the agreement in question and has held that the transaction between
the assessee and the distributor for recharge coupons was in the nature of
sale and purchase. Therefore, the amount of discount cannot be equated with
the commission as envisaged under Section 194H of the Act.
Therefore, the decision of the Hon'ble Tribunal in BSNL Tribunal case (supra)
will not apply in the present case.
10\. It is submitted that the sale of right to service is akin to sale of
goods and tradeable commodity. Therefore, the cases relied upon by the
assessees in Bharti Airtel Ltd. vs. CIT (supra) being CIT vs. Mother Dairy
India Ltd. [2013] 358 ITR 218 (Delhi), CIT vs Qatar Airways, [2012] 20
taxmann.com 598 (Bombay), and Ahmedabad Stamp vendors Association vs. Union of
India, [2002] 257 ITR 202 (Guj) affirmed by the Supreme Court in its order
dated 06.09.2012 in Civil Appeal No. 10270 of 2003 being CIT vs Ahmedabad
Stamp Vendors wherein it is held that a principal to principal relation exists
when a distributor sells products acquired at a discount are squarely
applicable in the present case.
11\. The decision of the Kerala High Court in Vodafone Essar Cellular Ltd.
Assistant Commissioner of Income Tax, [2011] 332 ITR 255 (Ker) is no longer
good law after the order of the Supreme Court dated 06.09.2012 in Civil Appeal
No. 10270 of 2003 being CIT vs Ahmedabad Stamp Vendors. It is submitted that
the order of the Supreme Court dated 06.09.2012 in Civil Appeal No. 10270 of
2003 being CIT vs Ahmedabad Stamp Vendors effectively overrules the decision
of the Kerala High Court dated 17.8.2010 in Vodafone Essar Cellular Ltd.
Assistant Commissioner of Income Tax, [2011] ITA Nos. 3328 to 3332/Del./2015 &
SA Nos.315 to 319/Del./2015 24 332 ITR 255 (Ker), where the Kerala High Court
had doubted its own decision in Kerala State Stamp Vendors Association vs
Office of the Accountant-General and Ors.[2006] 282 ITR 7 (Ker), which in turn
had ruled upon Ahmedabad Stamp Vendors case. Once the Hon'ble Supreme Court
has upheld the Ahmedabad Stamp Vendors, the contrary view expressed in
Vodafone Essar Cellular cannot be said to be good law.
12\. The Kerala High Court while concluding that there exists a principal to
agent relationship between the assessee and its distributors (at page 10 of
the case) has specifically disagreed with reasoning of the Gujarat High Court
in Ahmedabad Stamp vendors Association vs. Union of India, [2002] 257 ITR 202
(Guj).
13\. As per the principle of doctrine of merger (refer to Kunhayammed & Ors vs
State Of Kerala & Anr, (2000) 6 SCC 359 @ para 44) vide the order of the
Supreme Court dated the 06.09.2012 the decision of the Gujarat High Court in
Ahemdabad Stamp Vendors Case (supra) stands affirmed and the decision of the
Kerala High Court stands overruled.
14\. The decision of the Calcutta High Court in Bharti Cellular v. Asst CIT
[2011] 12 Taxmann.com 30 (Cal) is similarly distinguishable on facts. Reliance
is also placed on the decision of the Kolkata Bench in Vodafone East Ltd, vs.
DOT, (IDS) in ITA Nos. 1499-1502/Kol/2015 and 136-137/Kol/2016 decision dated
26.10.2017.
8\. On the other hand, the ld. DR relying on the orders of the authorities
below, also filed a written synopsis, which reads as under :
> 1\. In gist, the appellant assessee has raised grounds of appeal on the
> issues of tax deduction at source u/s 194H of IT Act 1961 from the discounts
> allowed to its distributors on bulk sale of starter kits and recharge
> vouchers (RCVs) and the said appellant assessee has also raised grounds of
> appeal on the issues of tax deduction at source u/s 194J of IT Act 1961 on
> Interconnect usage charges paid by the appellant to other telecom operators.
> 2\. Ld. AO (Assessing Officer) while following the direction of Hon'ble
> Supreme Court in civil appeal No. 6692 dated 12.08.2010 in the case Vodafone
> Essar Mobile Services Ltd. has considered the expert opinion of two C-DOT
> Officials - Shri Tanay Krishna ,Group Leader ( Project Planning) & Shri
> Ashok Mittal ,Group Leader (CLH),C-DOT on 29.09.2010 by examination and
> Cross-examination to find out " extent & nature of human interventions"
> which is inevitable on an assortment of areas during the process of
> technical operations for interconnection and the Assessing officer while
> considering all facts and circumstances has rightly and correctly on facts
> and law hold that the appellant assessee is liable to deduct tax at source
> u/s 194J read with explanation 2 of section 9(1)(vii) of IT Act 1961 on
> Interconnect usage charge to other telecom operators.
3\. Ld. CIT (A), for example, in appeal no 639/14-15 dated 13.03.2015 for
Financial year 2006-07 at Para 11.4/page 21 has stated " Perusal of details
submitted during ITA Nos. 3328 to 3332/Del./2015 & SA Nos.315 to 319/Del./2015
25 appellate proceedings as well as AO's order dated 30.03.2011, it is
observed that the entire process of carriage and transfer of calls from the
network of one operator to another though being an automated process
undertaken by a series of highly advanced telecom network equipment, still
required constant human intervention in form configuration, installation,
testing etc. in the order to make the process of carriage of calls effectively
operational .Moreover after analysing the reason why expert opinion was not
cross verified by TTSL given by the AO in remand report. I ^ see no reason to
interfere with the observations of the AO in this connection." Hence,
considering the facts and Law, The Ld. AO has correctly applied provision of
section u/s 194J read with explanation 2 of section 9(1)(vii) of IT Act 1961
which was legally & factually supported by Ld. CIT (A).
4\. The Appellant assessee has taken alternative plea (Ground No.5 ) before
Ld.CIT(A) that in the case of operators to whom payments towards IUC charges
have been made, TDS has not been deducted as the Deductees income were
exempted from TDS by following the ratios decided in Hindustan Coca Cola
Beverage (P) Ltd. 293 ITR 226 (SC). However, the appellant assessee could not
submit any evidence to prove that TDS has been deducted or the exemption u/s
197 of I.T. Act 1961 is not available hence the payments made on account of
IUC charges for these service providers would be subject to TDS u/s 194J. For
non deduction of TDS u/s 194J in the case of payment of IUC charges to
Reliance Communication, Hutchison Essar and Tata Communication, the appellant
will be considered assessee in default u/s 201( 1) of I.T. Act 1961\. The AO
at Para 5.2 of his order dated 30.03.2011 for financial year 2006-07 u/s
201(1)r.w.s. 201(1A) of IT Act 1961 has held that the appellant assessee did
not produce any No TDS certificate u/s 197 of IT Act and also did not produce
a certificate and prove that deductee-assessee had in fact paid TDS on behalf
of said appellant assessee and as such CBDT Circular No. 8/2009 has not been
followed and the stands taken by Ld. AO and supported by Ld. CIT (A) on the
issues of section 194J of I.T. Act 1961 hold good & legally valid & factually
consistent /reasonable against appellant assessee.
5\. The appellant assessee at grounds of appeal ( D & F)( for example
F.Y.2006-07) has raised that no examination and cross examination of experts
has been done in its case before Ld. AO and nor before Ld. CIT(A) regarding
issues u/s 194J of I.T. Act 1961 and if at this stage the examination and
cross examination of experts is to be allowed to the appellant assessee , then
same should be done before Ld. AO, or Ld. CIT(A).
6\. Regarding the grounds of appeal on this issues u/s 194H of I.T. Act 1961
from the discounts allowed to its distributors on bulk sale of starter kits
and recharge vouchers (RCVs), It is respectfully submitted that by considering
all facts and laws both by Ld. AO and Ld. CIT(A) have categorically hold that
the relationship between TTSL and Channel Partners (Distributors) is that of a
principal and agent and since on the same issues, the Revenue has preferred
SLP before Hon'ble Apex Court against Karnataka High Court decision on the
issue of application of section 194H of I.T. Act 1961, in appellant assessee's
own case which has been admitted before the Hon'ble Supreme Court in C.A. No.
004939-004940/2015 on 06.05.2015 & SLP (C) no.
ITA Nos. 3328 to 3332/Del./2015 & SA Nos.315 to 319/Del./2015 26
017439-017440/2015 on 02.07.2015, which clearly prove that the issue of
application of section 194H is alive and debatable and subjudice for Revenue
before the Hon'ble apex Court and so it is submitted that the original order
of the Ld. AO wherein Ld. AO has taken stand on application of S.194H of I.T.
Act 1961 should be upheld. Ld. CIT(A) at Para 6.27 in appeal no. 641/14-15
dated 13.03.2015 for F.Y. 2008-09 at page 16 has stated.. "I have also
considered the judgment of Delhi, Kotkata & Kerala High Court in the case of
Ideal Cellular Ltd. 325 ITR 148 (Del), Bharti Cellular Ltd. Vs. ACIT 244 CTR
185 (Cat) and Vodafone Essar Cellular Ltd. Vs. ACIT (2009) 317 ITR (AT) 234
(Cochin), I hold that the discounts allowed and incentives given by the
appellant to its Channel Partners on sale of its products is in the nature of
commission and the same attracts the provision of section 194H of the Act".
7\. Recently in Bharat Sanchar Nigam Ltd., vs. Addl. CIT,Range-4, New Delhi,
in ITA No. 920/Del/2017 decided on 25.10.2017, The Hon'ble Bench of ITAT, New
Delhi has held ..(Para 11 of said order ) "Apparently, therefore,
legalistically both the Hon'ble High Courts have expressed a divergent opinion
in the matter. Since the appellant before us is from Delhi, we are obligated
to follow the decision of Hon'ble Jurisdictional High Court. Parties before us
have also elaborated upon the fact that there is a distinction in terms and
conditions of distribution agreement in the instant case and the facts as
existing before both the Hon'ble High Courts above, however we find no reason
to deliberate upon this aspect since on the legal aspect itself the decision
of Hon'ble Delhi High Court which is the Jurisdictional High Court is against
the appellant. We are therefore compelled to hold that the discount on prepaid
products offered by the appellant is in nature of "commission" which does
attract rigors of section 194H."
8\. Hence, The orders of the Ld. Assessing officer & confirmed by Ld. CIT(A)
on issues of application of S.194H & S.194J of I.T. Act 1961 based on correct
facts & Laws including Jurisdictional Hon'ble High Court decision in Ideal
Cellular Ltd. 325 ITR 148 (Del) may be upheld & Appeals of appellant assessee
may be dismissed."
9\. We have considered the rival submissions of the parties and perused the
entire material available on record. We have also gone through the decisions
relied upon by the learned Authorised Representative and the learned
Departmental Representative. The stand of the assessee on the first issue is
mainly based on the decision of Hon'ble Karnataka High Court in the case of
(1) Bharti Airtel Ltd. (2) Vodafone Essar South Ltd. vs. DCIT and Tata
Teleservices Ltd. vs. CIT, 372 ITR 33 (Karn) whereas the stand of the Revenue
is based on the decision of Hon'ble jurisdictional High Court in the case of
Idea Cellular (supra). As could be seen, the Assessing Officer has treated the
assessee as assessee in default alleging non-deduction of tax at source under
section 194H, ITA Nos. 3328 to 3332/Del./2015 & SA Nos.315 to 319/Del./2015 27
on the reasoning that it has paid commission to the distributors for selling
the starter Kits /pre-paid sim card/ recharge vouchers. It is an admitted fact
that the MRP decided by the assessee of its above products is more than the
amount alleged to have been received from the channel partners (distributors).
What is to be adjudicated is whether the impugned transactions of starter
kits/pre-paid recharge vouchers were the transactions of purchase and sale on
principal - to
\- principal basis or on principal-to-agent basis. It is an admitted position
of law that in the former case, the assessee shall not be liable for TDS, but
in latter situation, the provisions of section 194H would come into play. The
answer to the above two situations would decide whether the discount given to
the distributor was in the nature of commission or not. We have been addressed
at length by both the parties on the strength of these two decisions. First
core question to be seen in this scenario is whether there is any variance in
views expressed by both these High Court decisions. Hon'ble Jurisdictional
High Court in case of Idea Cellular (supra) concluded that the relationship
between parties in that case was principal to agent observing as under :
23\. We, thus, come back to the central question, which is to be addressed
viz. the nature of relationship. Reverting back to this aspect, in the present
case, we are of the opinion that the legal relationship is established between
the assessee and the ultimate consumer/subscriber, who is sold the SIM card by
the agents further appointed by the PMAs with the consent of the assessee. It
is created by :
(a) Activation of the said SIM card by the assessee in the name of the
consumer/subscriber.
(b) Service provided by the assessee to the subscriber. Further, dealings
between the subscribers and the assessee in relation to the said SIM card
including any complaint, etc. for improper service/defect in service.
(c) Entering into the ultimate agreement between the subscriber and the
assessee (cl. 15 of the agreement).
ITA Nos. 3328 to 3332/Del./2015 & SA Nos.315 to 319/Del./2015 28 It is to be
borne in mind that the nature of service provided by the assessee to the
ultimate consumers/subscribers, whether it is prepaid or post-paid SIM card
remains the same. In the instant case, the SIM cards are prepaid, which are
sold by the assessee to the consumers through the medium of PMAs. In the case
of post- paid, SIM card transaction is entered into directly between the
assessee and the subscriber and the subscriber is sent bill periodically
depending upon the user of the SIM card for the period in question. In both
the cases, legal relationship is created between the subscriber and the
assessee that too by entering into specific agreement between these two
parties.
24\. In contrast, the legal position when the goods are sold by principal to
its distributors creating "principal and principal" relationship would be
entirely different. On the sale of goods, the ownership passes between the
manufacturer and the distributors. It is the responsibility of the distributor
thereafter to sell those goods further to the consumers--the ultimate users.
The principal/manufacturer does not come in picture at all. Of course, he may
be liable for some action by the consumer because of defective goods, etc.,
which is the result of other enactments conferring certain rights on the
consumer or common law rights in his favour as against the manufacturer. We
may also point out that in its classic judgment in the case of Bharat Sanchar
Nigam Ltd. & Anr. vs. Union of India & Ors. (2006) 201 CTR (SC) 346 : AIR 2006
SC 1383, the Supreme Court held that electromagnetic waves or radio of
frequencies are not goods and with the sale thereof Sales-tax Act is not
attracted, though the decision was rendered in the context of liability of
sales-tax.
25\. No doubt, as per cl. 6(a) of the agreement, PMA is supposed to make the
payment in advance. That would not make any difference to the nature of
transaction in view of cl. 25(d) of the agreement, which stipulates as under :
"25(d). Upon the termination or expiration of this agreement for any reason,
PMA shall discontinue the marketing/distributing/offering for sale, IDEA
Chitchat Prepaid Services, and shall forthwith return to ICL the entire stock
of prepaid SIM cards/recharge coupons remaining with him and/or his authorized
retailer. ICL shall pay to PMA for such prepaid SIM cards/recharge coupons
received by it from the distributor."
26\. Thus, even if advance payment is made by the PMA on receipt of the SIM
cards, qua those SIM cards, it does not amount to "sale" of goods. The purpose
is to ensure that the payment is received in respect of those SIM cards, which
are ultimately sold to the subscribers in as much as unsold SIM cards are to
be returned to the assessee and the assessee is required to make payment
against ITA Nos. 3328 to 3332/Del./2015 & SA Nos.315 to 319/Del./2015 29 them.
This is an antithesis of "sale". There cannot be any such obligation to
receive back the unsold stocks. Further, cl. 25(f) lays down that on
termination of agreement, PMA or its authorized retailer appointed by it, is
not entitled to any compensation for cost or expenses incurred by it in either
setting up or promotion of its business, etc. No such clause was required in
case of "sale".
(To be taken from AO's order......)
27\. We may now refer to the three decisions of various Benches of the
Tribunal holding which have taken the view contrary to the one held by the
Tribunals in impugned decision. In Vodafone Essar Cellular Ltd. (supra),
Cochin Bench has discussed the issue much elaborately in the following manner
:
"33. The assessee company has made a lot of reliance on the contention
regarding the freedom of pricing. It is the case of the assessee company that
the distributors are free to fix the selling price but the price should not
exceed the MRP. The Revenue says that there is no such freedom in fixing the
sale price. As far as the present case is concerned, earlier it was BPL and
thereafter BPL--Hutch and now it is M/s Vodafone Essar Cellular Ltd. In the
earlier two occasions, there was no clause on pricing in the agreements
entered into between the predecessors of the assessee company and the
distributors. It is in the latest agreement between the assessee and its
distributors that the clause on pricing has been inserted that the
distributors are free to determine the ultimate sale price subject to MRP.
34\. We do not think that this so-called pricing freedom is so crucial in
examining the exact nature of the business relation between the assessee
company and its distributors. The pricing factor is also a matter of mutual
consent between the parties. Even in the case of an agency, there can be a
clause by which an agent is authorized to sell the goods for a price less than
the MRP. Even in a case of principal-to-principal, there may be a clause that
the distributor cannot sell a product for a price less than the MRP unless a
consent is given by the manufacturer. The matter of pricing in both the cases,
i.e., principal-to-principal and principal to agents can be a matter of mutual
consent between the parties and even a matter of negotiation after the
execution of the agreement. There are no hard and fast rules of any legal
proposition as far as these matters are concerned.
51\. It is obvious that a service can only be rendered and cannot be sold. The
owner of the SIM cards and recharge coupons is the assessee company, M/s
Vodafone Essar Cellular Ltd. This is because the assessee company is operating
under the right of a licence agreement entered into with the Government of
India. Nobody ITA Nos. 3328 to 3332/Del./2015 & SA Nos.315 to 319/Del./2015 30
else can be given the right to operate as cellular telephone service
providers. The ultimate service is provided by the assessee company to
everyone and everywhere. The SIM card is in the nature of a key to the
consumer to have access to the telephone network established and operated by
the assessee company on its own behalf. Since the SIM card is only a device to
have access to the mobile phone network, there is no question of passing of
any ownership or title of the goods from the assessee company to the
distributor or from the distributor to the ultimate consumer. The distributors
are acting only as a link in the chain of service providers. The assessee
company is providing the mobile phone service. It is the ultimate owner of the
service system. The service is meant for public at large. In between providing
of that service, it is necessary for the company to appoint distributors to
make available the prepaid products to the public as well as to look after the
documentation and other statutory matters regarding the mobile phone
connection. So, what is the essence of service provided by the distributors ?
The essence of service rendered by the distributors is not the sale of any
product or goods. The distributors are providing facilities and services to
the general public for the availability of devices like SIM cards to have
access to the mobile phone network of the assessee company. Therefore, it is
beyond doubt that all the distributors are always acting for and on behalf of
the assessee company. Only for the reason that the distributors are making
advance payment for the delivery of SIM cards and other products and
distributors are responsible for the stock and account of those cards, it is
not possible to hold that the distributors are not acting for the assessee
company but the distributors are acting on their own behalf. Such a
proposition is inconceivable in the facts of the present case. It is always
possible for the telephone company itself to provide all these services
directly to the consumers as the Department of Telecom was doing; but such a
direct service is not feasible nowadays. Therefore, the assessee has made out
a business solution to appoint distributors to take care of the operational
activities of the company for providing service. The distributor is one of the
important links in that chain of service.
52\. Another important feature is that the SIM cards stocked by the
distributors are still the property of the service provider, the assessee
company. The permissive right to use SIM cards to get access to the phone
network of the assessee company is given only to the ultimate consumer who
activates the connection by using the secret number provided in the SIM card.
It is only for the ultimate consumer or the assessee company who has the
authority to uncover the secret number and bring the card into activation.
This unique situation negates the argument of the assessee company that once
delivery of the SIM card is taken, it is the absolute property of the
distributors. No, this is a misconception.
ITA Nos. 3328 to 3332/Del./2015 & SA Nos.315 to 319/Del./2015 31
56\. In the case of post-paid scheme, the assessee company is treating the
benefits enjoyed by a distributor as commission and deducting tax at source.
Where the assessee company itself admits that it is liable to deduct tax at
source under s. 194H in respect of post-paid services rendered through its
distributors, it is the duty of the assessee to prove that the services
rendered by the assessee through the distributors on prepaid package is
different from the post-paid package so as to qualify the former for exemption
from operation of s. 194H.
57\. It is beyond any dispute that the essence of services rendered to the
prepaid and post-paid consumers is one and the same. There is no difference.
The only difference is technical. The difference exists only in billing system
and revenue collection, etc. In both the cases assessee company is providing
the service. Distributors are helping to reach such services to the ultimate
consumers. In both the systems, there is documentation. In both the systems,
the distributors render similar types of services to the assessee company. Of
course accounting the revenue collection and related matters are different.
The essence of post-paid and prepaid services rendered by the assessee company
is the same and the relationship between the assessee and the customers is
also the same. Therefore, if post-paid scheme is subject to s. 194H, it is
quite unlikely that prepaid system would be outside the purview of s. 194H.
60\. The next question is whether the commission/brokerage allowed by the
assessee company at the stage of raising the invoice is equivalent to paying
of commission/brokerage to the distributors. The assessee has always raised a
contention, that too in the light of the judicial pronouncements including
that of M.S. Hameed (supra) that the assessee company had no occasion to
deduct tax at source as the assessee company was not making any payment to the
distributors or crediting the account of the distributors for any services
rendered to it. But that occasion was removed by the assessee itself by
conscious wordings of the terms of the agreement. The assessee company can
collect the net sale proceeds along with TDS element from the distributors
while distributing the prepaid products to the distributors. The distributors
shall file their returns before the concerned authorities and depending upon
the working results, they can adjust the TDS collected by the assessee company
against their tax liability or the refund due. The fact that the distributors
may sometime deliver the products for a price less than the MRP is not at all
an impediment in deducting the tax at source. The distributors may deliver the
products at a lesser price, but even then for the purpose of s. 194H, as in
the above example, the margin available to the distributor is Rs. 20, which is
to be treated as commission, and the assessee has to consider that amount for
the purpose of quantifying the element of TDS. The assessee company has to
collect the net price along with the above-stated TDS ITA Nos. 3328 to
3332/Del./2015 & SA Nos.315 to 319/Del./2015 32 element. Therefore, the
argument that there was no occasion as in the case of M.S. Hameed (supra) has
no relevance here. The situation considered by the Hon"ble High Court was
different. In that case one party is State Government. Without executing an
authority in conformity with the statutory and administrative rules, nobody
can become an agent of the Government. Further, the Court has considered the
subject transaction as that of purchase and sale of goods. But, in the present
case, there is no failure of any procedural provisions as apprehended by the
assessee company.
65\. We have come to the above conclusion specifically on the following
grounds :
(1) In the judgment of the Hon"ble High Court of Kerala in the case of BPL
Mobile Cellular Ltd. (supra) it has been held that in the supply and delivery
of SIM cards and other recharge coupons, there is no sale and purchase of
goods, but only of providing services;
(2) The Hon'ble Kerala High Court in the case of Kerala Stamp Vendors
Association (supra) have treated the subject transactions as transactions of
purchase and sale of goods;
(3) The assessee company as a service provider is always the owner of the
above products which is meant only as devices to have access to the mobile
phone network system maintained and operated by the assessee company;
(4) The services provided by the assessee company through various distributors
is regulated by law. Carrying on the business of providing service is subject
to so many statutory compliance requirements, like verification of the
identity of the consumer and the related documentation, etc. The assessee
company is having all lawful obligations to a prepaid consumer, even though
the direct deal is between the distributor and the consumer. This is because
the distributor does not have anything to provide 'as service' to the
consumer. These are all features of agency relationship.
(5) Other matters explained by the assessee as, there was no payment by the
assessee in cash or cheque by way of commission to the distributors or not
crediting the accounts of the distributors for any commission, delivering the
products only after getting the price in full, are all matters of asssessee's
indoor management.
(6) Service cannot be sold or purchased and it can ony be provided. The
operational features explained by the assessee company are necessary in
running ITA Nos. 3328 to 3332/Del./2015 & SA Nos.315 to 319/Del./2015 33 a
mammoth system of providing mobile telephone services over a large
geographical area. The distributors provide essential services to the assessee
company in running such a huge operational system. The distributors are
linking agents in the chain of delivery of services to consumers. Therefore,
the relationship is not of a principal-to-principal."
28\. We are in agreement with the view taken by the said Bench. Identical view
is taken by Calcutta Bench in the case of Asstt. CIT vs. Bharti Cellular Ltd.
(2007) 108 TTJ (Kol) 38 : (2007) 294 ITR 283 (Kol)(AT). Both these Benches
specifically rejected the arguments of the assessee based on Ahmedabad Stamp
Vendors Association (supra), Bhopal Sugar Industries Ltd. (supra), Kerala
Stamp Vendors Association (sic) and Bajaj Auto Ltd. (supra) distinguishing
those judgments and holding that they are not applicable in the given
situation. We agree with the same.
29\. We thus answer the question, as formulated, in favour of the Revenue and
against the assessee. As a consequence, these appeals are allowed and judgment
of the Tribunal on this aspect is set aside. No costs.
10\. In view of the above decision, it is seen that the vital feature which
Hon'ble Jurisdictional High Court has found relevant is that a legal
relationship is established between the telephone service provider and the
consumer i.e the subscriber to its products. Hon'ble Jurisdictional High Court
has also followed the dictum of Hon'ble Apex Court in the case of BSNL vs UOI
reported in AIR 2006 SC 1383 to hold that this is not a case for sale of goods
but a case of providing telephone services and hence there can be no sale of
goods from the service provider to its distributor so as to create a principal
to principal relationship. The Hon'ble jurisdictional High Court further
observed that the assessee could not be able to differentiate the nature of
services provided on post-paid services on which the assessee has admitted to
have paid commission to the distributors and prepaid services, on which the
assessee admitted to have given discount to the distributors. These crucial
facts as considered by the jurisdictional High Court are also existing in the
case before us.
ITA Nos. 3328 to 3332/Del./2015 & SA Nos.315 to 319/Del./2015 34
11\. Contrary to above view expressed by Hon'ble jurisdictional High Court,
the assessee has relied on the decision of Hon'ble Karnataka High Court
(supra) wherein it has been held that a right to service can be sold and this
aspect was not considered by the jurisdictional High Court. The relevant
observations of the Hon'ble Karnataka High Court read as under:
> "56. In the Idea Cellular Ltd. case (supra), the Delhi High Court proceeded
> on the footing that the assessee is providing the mobile phone service. It
> is the ultimate owner of the service system. The service is meant for public
> at large. They had appointed distributors to make available the pre-paid
> products to the public and look after the documentation and other statutory
> requirements regarding the mobile phone connection and, therefore, the
> essence of service rendered by the distributor is not the sale of any
> product or goods and, therefore, it was held that all the distributors are
> always acting for and on behalf of the assessee company.
> 57\. Similar is the view expressed by the Kerala High Court in the Vodafone
> Essar Cellular Ltd.'s case (Supra), where it was held that, the distributor
> is only rendering services to the assessee and the distributor commits the
> assessee to the subscribers to whom assessee is accountable under the
> service contract which is the subscriber connection arranged by the
> distributor for the assessee. In that context it was held that, discount is
> nothing but a margin given by the assessee to the distributor at the time of
> delivery of SIM Cards or Recharge Coupons against advance payment made by
> the distributor.
> 58\. In both the aforesaid cases, the Court proceeded on the basis that
> service cannot be sold. It has to be rendered. But, they did not go into the
> question whether right to service can be sold.
> 59\. The telephone service is nothing but service. SIM cards, have no
> intrinsic sale value. It is supplied to the customers for providing mobile
> services to them. The SIM card is in the nature of a key to the consumer to
> have access to the telephone network established and operated by the
> assessee-company on its own behalf. Since the SIM Card is only a device to
> have access to the mobile phone network, there is no question of passing of
> any ownership or title of the goods from the assessee-company to the
> distributor or from the distributor to the ultimate consumer. Therefore, the
> SIM card, on its own but without service would hardly have any value. A ITA
> Nos. 3328 to 3332/Del./2015 & SA Nos.315 to 319/Del./2015 35 customer, who
> wants to have its service initially, has to purchase a sim- card. When he
> pays for the sim-card, he gets the mobile service activated. Service can
> only be rendered and cannot be sold. However, right to service can be sold.
> What is sold by the service provider to the distributor is the right to
> service. Once the distributor pays for the service, and the service
> provider, delivers the Sim Card or Recharge Coupons, the distributor
> acquires a right to demand service. Once such a right is acquired the
> distributor may use it by himself. He may also sell the right to sub-
> distributors who in turn may sell it to retailers. It is a well-settled
> proposition that if the property in the goods is transferred and gets vested
> in the distributor at the time of the delivery then he is thereafter liable
> for the same and would be dealing with them in his own right as a principal
> and not as an agent. The seller may have fixed the MRP and the price at
> which they sell the products to the distributors but the products are sold
> and ownership vests and is transferred to the distributors. However, who
> ever ultimately sells the said right to customers is not entitled to charge
> more than the MRP. The income of these middlemen would be the difference in
> the sale price and the MRP, which they have to share as per the agreement
> between them. The said income accrues to them only when they sell this right
> to service and not when they purchase this right to service. The assessee is
> not concerned with quantum and time of accrual of income to the distributors
> by reselling the prepaid cards to the sub- distributors/retailers. As at the
> time of sale of prepaid card by the assessee to the distributor, income has
> not accrued or arisen to the distributor, there is no primary liability to
> tax on the Distributor. In the absence of primary liability on the
> distributor at such point of time, there is no liability on the assessee to
> deduct tax at source. The difference between the sale price to retailer and
> the price which the distributor pays to the assessee is his income from
> business. It cannot be categorized as commission. The sale is subject to
> conditions, and stipulations. This by itself does not show and establish
> principal and agent relationship."
On going through the above decisions, it is apparent that both the Hon'ble
High Courts have expressed a divergent opinion on the aspect of transfer of
service, inasmuch as the Hon'ble jurisdictional High Court held that services
cannot be transferred whereas the Hon'ble Karnataka High Court held that right
to service can be transferred. But since the appellant before us hails from
Delhi, we are ITA Nos. 3328 to 3332/Del./2015 & SA Nos.315 to 319/Del./2015 36
obligated to follow the decision of Hon'ble Jurisdictional High Court. Parties
before us have also elaborated upon the fact that there is a distinction in
the facts of the instant case and the facts as existing before both the
Hon'ble High Courts above, however we find no reason to deliberate upon this
aspect since on the legal aspect itself the decision of Hon'ble Delhi High
Court which is the jurisdictional High Court is against the appellant. We are
therefore compelled to hold that the discount on prepaid products offered by
the appellant is in nature of "commission" which does attract rigors of
section 194H.
12\. Even otherwise, in the decision of Hon'ble Karnataka High Court reported
in (2015) 372 ITR 33 (Kar) (supra), Hon'ble High Court remitted the case back
to the AO for deciding the same afresh in the light of following two
illustrations to decide the applicability of section 194H :
> "In the first instance, sale is accounted for Rs.100/-, which is the first
> account and Rs.80/- is the second account and the third account is Rs.20/-.
> It shows that the sales is for Rs.100/-, commission is given at Rs.20/- to
> the distributors and net value is Rs.80/-. The assessee's sale is accounted
> at the gross value of Rs.100/- and thereafter, the commission paid at
> Rs.20/-is accounted. Therefore, in those circumstances of the case, the
> essence of the contract of the assessee and distributor is that of service
> and therefore, Section 194H of the Act is attracted."
> However, in the first instance, if the assessee accounted for only Rs.80/-
> and on payment of Rs.80/-, he hands over the prepaid card prescribing the
> MRP as Rs.100/-, then at the time of sale, the assessee is not making any
> payment. Consequently, the distributor is not earning any income. This
> discount of Rs.20/- if not reflected anywhere in the books of accounts, in
> such circumstances, Section 194H of the Act is not attracted.
If we deliberate upon the facts of the present case on the anvil of above
illustrations, given by Hon'ble Karnataka High Court, we find that the
assessee has not produced before us either any specimen invoice or any entry
passed in ITA Nos. 3328 to 3332/Del./2015 & SA Nos.315 to 319/Del./2015 37 the
books of account in relation thereto or any financial statement for the
impugned year so as to cover its case within any of the above two
illustrations reproduced above. Therefore, the case of the assessee does not
stand proved on the anvil of above illustrations given by Hon'ble Karnataka
High Court.
13\. We have also perused the copy of business agreement entered between the
assessee and its channel Partner (distributor) M/s. Goel Agencies placed at
page Nos. 62 to 154 of the paper book. We observe that in clause 10.1, it has
been agreed as under :
> "In consideration of duly performing the duties and obligations as
> contemplated herein, channel partner shall be entitled to the consideration
> as set forth in schedule-B attached herewith."
Schedule -B placed at page No. 127 of the paper book speaks of the
consideration as per Appendix 3 and Schedule B to the agreement placed at page
140 of the paper book reads as under :
> Commission payable to Distributor:-
> The commission structure for various periods shall be intimated to the
> distributor from time to time and shall be revised at the sole discretion of
> TTL based on market/commercial requirements.
> The distributor agrees that the commission structure for various periods
> intimated to the distributor by TTL shall be binding on it and shall not
> dispute the same for any reason, whatsoever.
14\. From the above narration, it is apparent that the transaction relating to
commission is agreed between the assessee and the channel partner/distributor,
but the assessee has not been able to address as to for which segment of
business, both the parties agreed to pay and receive commission.
ITA Nos. 3328 to 3332/Del./2015 & SA Nos.315 to 319/Del./2015 38
15\. In view of what has been discussed above, and respectfully following the
decision of Hon'ble jurisdictional High Court in the case of Idea Cellular
Ltd. (supra), we decide this issue against the assessee and in favour of the
Revenue thereby confirming the decision reached by the ld. CIT(A) on this
count. Accordingly, the grounds of appeal raised on the first issue deserve to
be dismissed.
16\. Adverting to the second issue regarding non-deducting of TDS on payment
of IUC, keeping in view the similar nature of charges, i.e., roaming charges
paid, this Bench of Tribunal in the case of Bharat Sanchar Nigam Ltd. vs.
Addl. CIT (ITA No. 920/Del./2017 (supra), the issue under consideration has
been decided in favour of the assessee, observing as under :
> "17. We have carefully considered the facts of the case and the material
> available on record and we find that the issue in dispute is directly
> covered by the decision of ITAT in case of Bharti Airtel Limited (supra). In
> that case co-ordinate bench of this court after deep examination of the
> issue i.e after considering and going through the process of providing
> roaming services; examination of technical experts and its cross examination
> and also opinion of Hon'ble the then Chief Justice of India Mr. S.H. Kapadia
> dated 03rd September 2013, has held that payment of IUC Charges is not "Fee
> for Technical Services" or "Royalty" within the meaning of its definition as
> per section 9(1)(vi) and 9(1)(vii) of the Act. While reaching the above
> conclusion the co-ordinate bench also took into consideration retrospective
> amendments made to section 9 by Finance Act 2012\. Relevant head-notes of
> this decision as reported in (2016) 67 taxmann.com 223(Del) are reproduced
> below:
> "Section 9 , read with sections 194J and 195, of the Income-tax Act, 1961,
> read with article 12 of Model OECD Convention - Income - Deemed to accrue or
> arise in India (Royalties and Fees for technical services) - Assessment
> years 2008-09 to 2011- 2012 - Assessee, as part of its International Long
> Distance (ILD) Telecom Services business, was responsible for providing
> services to its subscribers in respect of calls originated/terminated
> outside India - For provisions of ILD services, assessee was required to
> obtain services of Foreign Telecom Operators (FTOs) - ILD Operators were in
> turn billed by FTOs in form of Inter-connected Usage Charges(IUC) - There
> was no manual or human intervention during process of transportation of
> calls between two networks - This was done automatically, with human
> intervention being required only for installation of network which could not
> be said to be for inter-connection of a call - Assessee merely delivered
> calls that originated on its network to inter connection locations of FTO
> and FTO carried and terminated calls on its network - Whether thus payment
> of IUC by assessee to FTO in connection with its ILD telecom service
> business ITA Nos. 3328 to 3332/Del./2015 & SA Nos.315 to 319/Del./2015 39
> was neither FTS under section 9(1)(vii), nor royalty/process royalty under
> section 9(1)(vi) \- Held, yes - Whether ever retrospective amendment in
> domestic legislation does not affect royalty definition under DTAA, hence
> retrospective insertion of Explanations 5 & 6 to section 9(1)(vi) also could
> not have altered this position - Held, yes [Paras 33, 44, 55, 56& 72][In
> favour of assessee] Section 9 of the Income-tax Act, 1961, read with section
> 5 and article 7 of Model OECD Convention - Income - Deemed to accrue or
> arise in India (Business Profits) - Assessment years 2008-09 to 2011- 2012
> -Assessee made payment of Inter-connected Usage Charges(IUC) to Foreign
> Telecom Operators (FTOs) in connection with its ILD telecom service business
> - Payment in question did not accrue or arise to 'FTOs' in India - Entire
> business operations were carried out outside India by FTOs - FTOs also did
> not have any Permanent Establishment in India - Whether thus no income could
> be deemed to accrue or arise to FTO's in India and hence under article 7
> also income could not be brought to tax in India - Held, yes - Whether
> further in absence of permanent establishment of FTOs in India, payment of
> 'IUC' to FTOs could not be deemed to accrue or arise in India under any of
> clause of section 9(1) read with section 5(2) \- Held, yes [Paras 74 &
> 78][In favour of assessee]"
> To the similar effect are other decisions cited by Ld AR. The Ld CIT(DR) has
> not been able to controvert the fact that the issue in dispute is no more
> res integra considering the above binding precedents. Moreover, a perusal of
> sample agreement for payment of IUC charges between BSNL and Cable &
> Wireless UK in the instant case also clearly shows that a standard facility
> for availing interconnectivity services while roaming was availed by the
> appellant in the instant case. This does not require any human intervention.
> Respectfully following the above judicial precedents, we hold that payment
> for IUC Charges is not chargeable to tax in India in the hands of the non-
> resident recipients and hence TDS was not deductible as per provisions of
> section 195 of the Act. Therefore, we reverse the order of the Ld CIT(A) on
> this issue and decide the same in favour of the assessee. Accordingly,
> respective grounds Nos. 7, 8 & 9 are allowed."
17\. Similarly, ITAT Mumbai Bench in the case of assessee placed at Mumbai
vide order dated 27.05.2016 (ITA Nos. 2043 to 2045/Mum/2014 - A.Yrs. 2009- 10
to 2012-13) has decided the issue in favour of the assessee holding that the
provisions of roaming services do not require any human intervention and
therefore, the payment of roaming charges does not fall under the net of TDS
provisions u/s. 194J of the Act.
18\. Respectfully following the above decisions, this issue is decided in
favour of the assessee and against the Revenue. Accordingly, the order of the
ld. CIT(A) ITA Nos. 3328 to 3332/Del./2015 & SA Nos.315 to 319/Del./2015 40 is
reversed on this issue. As a result, the appeal of the assessee deserves to be
partly allowed. The Assessing Officer is directed to give consequential effect
of this order while working out the interest u/s. 201(1A) of the Act.
19\. Since the first issue and relevant facts involved in remaining four
appeals of the assessee are identical, therefore, the decision reached by us
on this first issue, shall equally apply to the remaining appeals of the
assessee also. The second issue is involved only in appeals for A.Yrs.
2007-08, 2008-09 and 2009-
10\. Accordingly, the appeals for A.Yrs. 2007-08 to 2009-10 deserve to be
partly allowed and the appeals for A.Yrs. 2010-11 and 2011-12 deserve to be
dismissed.
20\. In the result, the appeals of the assessee for A.Yrs. 2007-08 to 2009-10
are partly allowed and the appeals for A.Yrs. 2010-11 and 2011-12 are
dismissed. The Stay petitions filed by the assessee are, accordingly,
dismissed.
           Order pronounced in the open court on 15TH March, 2018
                 Sd/-                                               Sd/-
            (Bhavnesh Saini)                                      (L.P. Sahu)
           Judicial member                                     Accountant Member
    Dated: 15.03.2018
    *aks*
    Copy of order forwarded to:
    (1)     The appellant                       (2)    The respondent
    (3)     Commissioner                        (4)    CIT(A)
    (5)     Departmental Representative         (6)    Guard File
                                                                                                 By order
                                                                                   Assistant Registrar
                                                                        Income Tax Appellate Tribunal
                                                                             Delhi Benches, New Delhi
partly allowed and the appeals for A.Yrs. 2010-11 and 2011-12 deserve to be
dismissed.
20\. In the result, the appeals of the assessee for A.Yrs. 2007-08 to 2009-10
are partly allowed and the appeals for A.Yrs. 2010-11 and 2011-12 are
dismissed. The Stay petitions filed by the assessee are, accordingly,
dismissed.
           Order pronounced in the open court on 15TH March, 2018
                 Sd/-                                               Sd/-
            (Bhavnesh Saini)                                      (L.P. Sahu)
           Judicial member                                     Accountant Member
    Dated: 15.03.2018
    *aks*
    Copy of order forwarded to:
    (1)     The appellant                       (2)    The respondent
    (3)     Commissioner                        (4)    CIT(A)
    (5)     Departmental Representative         (6)    Guard File
                                           ORDER
Per L.P. Sahu, A.M.:
All these appeals at the instance of assessee are directed against separate
orders of the ld. CIT(A)-41, New Delhi dated 13.03.2015 for A.Yrs. 2007-08 to
2010-11 and dated 12.03.2015 for A.Y. 2011-12. The assessee has also moved
stay petitions in all these appeals.
2\. Since issue(s) involved in all these appeals are common and the assessee
has raised common grounds, all the appeals were heard together and are,
therefore, being disposed of by this consolidated order. For the sake of ITA
Nos. 3328 to 3332/Del./2015 & SA Nos.315 to 319/Del./2015 2 convenience and
brevity, we take up the appeal in ITA No. 338/Del./2015 for A.Y. 2007-08
first. The grounds raised in this appeal read as under :
> "A. That the Ld. CIT (A) grossly erred in holding that the Appellant was
> duty bound to deduct tax at source under section 194H from the discounts
> allowed to its distributors on bulk sale of starter kits and recharge
> vouchers (RCVs) under section 194H of the Income- tax Act, 1961 ('IT Act')
> and consequently hold it to be an assessee in default under section 201 of
> the Act.
> i. That the Ld CIT (A) grossly erred in not appreciating that the provisions
> of Section 194H of the Act would apply only at the time of payment/credit to
partly allowed and the appeals for A.Yrs. 2010-11 and 2011-12 deserve to be
dismissed.
20\. In the result, the appeals of the assessee for A.Yrs. 2007-08 to 2009-10
are partly allowed and the appeals for A.Yrs. 2010-11 and 2011-12 are
dismissed. The Stay petitions filed by the assessee are, accordingly,
dismissed.
           Order pronounced in the open court on 15TH March, 2018
                 Sd/-                                               Sd/-
            (Bhavnesh Saini)                                      (L.P. Sahu)
           Judicial member                                     Accountant Member
    Dated: 15.03.2018
    *aks*
    Copy of order forwarded to:
    (1)     The appellant                       (2)    The respondent
    (3)     Commissioner                        (4)    CIT(A)
    (5)     Departmental Representative         (6)    Guard File
                                           ORDER
Per L.P. Sahu, A.M.:
All these appeals at the instance of assessee are directed against separate
orders of the ld. CIT(A)-41, New Delhi dated 13.03.2015 for A.Yrs. 2007-08 to
2010-11 and dated 12.03.2015 for A.Y. 2011-12. The assessee has also moved
stay petitions in all these appeals.
2\. Since issue(s) involved in all these appeals are common and the assessee
has raised common grounds, all the appeals were heard together and are,
therefore, being disposed of by this consolidated order. For the sake of ITA
Nos. 3328 to 3332/Del./2015 & SA Nos.315 to 319/Del./2015 2 convenience and
brevity, we take up the appeal in ITA No. 338/Del./2015 for A.Y. 2007-08
first. The grounds raised in this appeal read as under :
> "A. That the Ld. CIT (A) grossly erred in holding that the Appellant was
> duty bound to deduct tax at source under section 194H from the discounts
> allowed to its distributors on bulk sale of starter kits and recharge
> vouchers (RCVs) under section 194H of the Income- tax Act, 1961 ('IT Act')
> and consequently hold it to be an assessee in default under section 201 of
> the Act.
> i. That the Ld CIT (A) grossly erred in not appreciating that the provisions
> of Section 194H of the Act would apply only at the time of payment/credit to
partly allowed and the appeals for A.Yrs. 2010-11 and 2011-12 deserve to be
dismissed.
20\. In the result, the appeals of the assessee for A.Yrs. 2007-08 to 2009-10
are partly allowed and the appeals for A.Yrs. 2010-11 and 2011-12 are
dismissed. The Stay petitions filed by the assessee are, accordingly,
dismissed.
           Order pronounced in the open court on 15TH March, 2018
                 Sd/-                                               Sd/-
            (Bhavnesh Saini)                                      (L.P. Sahu)
           Judicial member                                     Accountant Member
    Dated: 15.03.2018
    *aks*
    Copy of order forwarded to:
    (1)     The appellant                       (2)    The respondent
    (3)     Commissioner                        (4)    CIT(A)
    (5)     Departmental Representative         (6)    Guard File
                                           ORDER
Per L.P. Sahu, A.M.:
All these appeals at the instance of assessee are directed against separate
orders of the ld. CIT(A)-41, New Delhi dated 13.03.2015 for A.Yrs. 2007-08 to
2010-11 and dated 12.03.2015 for A.Y. 2011-12. The assessee has also moved
stay petitions in all these appeals.
2\. Since issue(s) involved in all these appeals are common and the assessee
has raised common grounds, all the appeals were heard together and are,
therefore, being disposed of by this consolidated order. For the sake of ITA
Nos. 3328 to 3332/Del./2015 & SA Nos.315 to 319/Del./2015 2 convenience and
brevity, we take up the appeal in ITA No. 338/Del./2015 for A.Y. 2007-08
first. The grounds raised in this appeal read as under :
> "A. That the Ld. CIT (A) grossly erred in holding that the Appellant was
> duty bound to deduct tax at source under section 194H from the discounts
> allowed to its distributors on bulk sale of starter kits and recharge
> vouchers (RCVs) under section 194H of the Income- tax Act, 1961 ('IT Act')
> and consequently hold it to be an assessee in default under section 201 of
> the Act.
> i. That the Ld CIT (A) grossly erred in not appreciating that the provisions
> of Section 194H of the Act would apply only at the time of payment/credit to
> payee's account and that the discount allowed is not payment/credit made to
> the Channel partners account;
> ii. That the Ld. CIT (A) grossly erred in not appreciating that Section 194H
> would not apply as the discount allowed does not qualify as income
> chargeable to tax under the Act in the hands of the payee in the facts and
> circumstances of present case;
> iii. That the Ld CIT (A) erroneously classified the discount given by the
> Applicant to its Channel Partners at the time of bulk sale of Starter Kits
> and RCVs as commission/brokerage;
> iv That the Ld. CIT (A) completely erred in holding that the principal-agent
> relationship existed between the Appellant and its Channel partners without
partly allowed and the appeals for A.Yrs. 2010-11 and 2011-12 deserve to be
dismissed.
20\. In the result, the appeals of the assessee for A.Yrs. 2007-08 to 2009-10
are partly allowed and the appeals for A.Yrs. 2010-11 and 2011-12 are
dismissed. The Stay petitions filed by the assessee are, accordingly,
dismissed.
           Order pronounced in the open court on 15TH March, 2018
                 Sd/-                                               Sd/-
            (Bhavnesh Saini)                                      (L.P. Sahu)
           Judicial member                                     Accountant Member
    Dated: 15.03.2018
    *aks*
    Copy of order forwarded to:
    (1)     The appellant                       (2)    The respondent
    (3)     Commissioner                        (4)    CIT(A)
    (5)     Departmental Representative         (6)    Guard File
                                           ORDER
Per L.P. Sahu, A.M.:
All these appeals at the instance of assessee are directed against separate
orders of the ld. CIT(A)-41, New Delhi dated 13.03.2015 for A.Yrs. 2007-08 to
2010-11 and dated 12.03.2015 for A.Y. 2011-12. The assessee has also moved
stay petitions in all these appeals.
2\. Since issue(s) involved in all these appeals are common and the assessee
has raised common grounds, all the appeals were heard together and are,
therefore, being disposed of by this consolidated order. For the sake of ITA
Nos. 3328 to 3332/Del./2015 & SA Nos.315 to 319/Del./2015 2 convenience and
brevity, we take up the appeal in ITA No. 338/Del./2015 for A.Y. 2007-08
first. The grounds raised in this appeal read as under :
> "A. That the Ld. CIT (A) grossly erred in holding that the Appellant was
> duty bound to deduct tax at source under section 194H from the discounts
> allowed to its distributors on bulk sale of starter kits and recharge
> vouchers (RCVs) under section 194H of the Income- tax Act, 1961 ('IT Act')
> and consequently hold it to be an assessee in default under section 201 of
> the Act.
> i. That the Ld CIT (A) grossly erred in not appreciating that the provisions
> of Section 194H of the Act would apply only at the time of payment/credit to
> payee's account and that the discount allowed is not payment/credit made to
> the Channel partners account;
> ii. That the Ld. CIT (A) grossly erred in not appreciating that Section 194H
> would not apply as the discount allowed does not qualify as income
> chargeable to tax under the Act in the hands of the payee in the facts and
> circumstances of present case;
> iii. That the Ld CIT (A) erroneously classified the discount given by the
> Applicant to its Channel Partners at the time of bulk sale of Starter Kits
> and RCVs as commission/brokerage;
> iv That the Ld. CIT (A) completely erred in holding that the principal-agent
> relationship existed between the Appellant and its Channel partners without
partly allowed and the appeals for A.Yrs. 2010-11 and 2011-12 deserve to be
dismissed.
20\. In the result, the appeals of the assessee for A.Yrs. 2007-08 to 2009-10
are partly allowed and the appeals for A.Yrs. 2010-11 and 2011-12 are
dismissed. The Stay petitions filed by the assessee are, accordingly,
dismissed.
           Order pronounced in the open court on 15TH March, 2018
                 Sd/-                                               Sd/-
            (Bhavnesh Saini)                                      (L.P. Sahu)
           Judicial member                                     Accountant Member
    Dated: 15.03.2018
    *aks*
    Copy of order forwarded to:
    (1)     The appellant                       (2)    The respondent
    (3)     Commissioner                        (4)    CIT(A)
    (5)     Departmental Representative         (6)    Guard File
