Income Tax Appellate Tribunal - Delhi
Agence France Presse (Afp), New ... vs Assessee on 15 September, 2014
                       INCOME TAX APPELLATE TRIBUNAL
                          DELHI BENCH "A": NEW DELHI
                  BEFORE SHRI J. S REDDY, ACCOUNTANT MEMBER
                                       AND
                      SHRI A. T. VARKEY, JUDICIAL MEMBER
                                 ITA No. 1055/Del/2011
                               (Assessment Year: 2006-07)
                                           &
                            ITA Nos. 4294 to 4298/Del/2011
                    (Assessment Year: 2002-03 to 2005-06 and 2008-09)
                  Agence France Presse,                     ADIT,
                  C/o. Vishwanath Singh &                   Circle 1(1),
                  Associates, Flat No. 10, Shankar   Vs.    International Taxation,
                  Market, Cannaught Circus,                  New Delhi
                  New Delhi
                  PAN:AAFCA3976K
                  (Appellant)                               (Respondent)
                                 Appellant by : T.N. Chopra, Adv
> consistent with its stand that it was not liable to be taxed in India."
70\. Respectfully following the binding decision of the jurisdictional High
Court we dismiss the ground No. 5 of the assessee.
P a g e | 46
71\. In the result the appeal of the assessee for all the above assessment
years are dismissed.
Order pronounced in the open court on 15.09.2014.
                -Sd/-                                                -Sd/-
             (J.S.REDYY)                                         (A. T. VARKEY)
           ACCOUNTANT MEMBER                                   JUDICIAL MEMBER
     Dated:15/09/2014
    A K Keot
    Copy forwarded to
          1. Applicant
          2. Respondent
          3. CIT
                                 Appellant by : T.N. Chopra, Adv
                                Respondent by : Sanjeev Sharma, CIT DR
                                         ORDER
PER A. T. VARKEY, JUDICIAL MEMBER This appeal by the Assessee is directed
against the order of the Ld. Commissioner of Income Tax (Appeals)-XI, New
Delhi dated 28.12.2010 pertaining to assessment year 2006-07.
2\. The assessee filed abridged grounds of appeal for all the assessment year
which are identical are reproduced as under:-
> "1. That the order of the learned Dispute Resolution Panel-1 (hereinafter
> referred to as DRP-1) is bad in law and on facts.
> 2\. That the learned DRP-1 has erred on facts and in law in confirming the
> addition of Rs.3,12,77,885.72 received by the appellant as Royalty without
> appreciating the fact that the payment has been received under the
> Agreements for sale of information and not for transfer of any copyright.
> 3\. Without prejudice to Ground No.2 above, the learned DRP-1 has grossly
> erred in ignoring the settled position that news reporting is beyond the
> purview of copyright as stipulated in Section 52 of the Copyright Act.
> Page |2
> 4\. Without prejudice to Grounds 2 and 3 above, the learned DRP-1 is not
> correct in law and in facts in holding that news reporting is covered under
> section 13 of the Copyright Act.
> 5\. That the learned DRP-1 has erred in law in upholding the action of the
> Assessing Officer in charging interest under section 234B of the Act of
> Rs.36,67,329/- by stating that the charge of interest is consequential even
> though the provisions of section 234B of the Act do not apply as the payer
> is liable to deduct the full tax at source and accordingly the appellant
> (non resident) was not liable to pay advance tax on the said amount."
3\. The principal issue arising in the instant appeal is whether any copyright
subsists in the news reports & photographs distributed/ circulated by the
assessee within India in terms of relevant provisions of Copyright Act, 1957,
and accordingly, such impugned copyright qualify as „royalties‟ within meaning
ascribed under Paragraph 3 of Article 13 of DTAA between India and France read
with Explanation 2(v) to Section 9(1)(vi) of the Income Tax Act during the
relevant year.
4\. However, prior to adjudicating this matter on the aforesaid issue, we are
required to determine whether the application for admission of additional
evidence dated 13.06.2014 as filed by the revenue before us in terms of Rule
29 of the ITAT Rules, 1963, should be allowable or not.
5\. In this regard, we note that the revenue has along with the relevant
Application under Rule 29 in the form of (pages 1 to 22) of Paper Book Volume
- I has filed A copy of complaint of AFP against Google Inc. filed in the
District Court of Columbia, USA in 2005 alleging infringement of copyright by
Google Inc. (Pg 1 to 19) and AFP News Agency Sues the Star Newspaper, Nairobi
(pg 20 to 22). The Revenue has submitted that both documents are available in
the public domain and have been obtained from the internet.
6\. It would be relevant to recount the brief background facts of instant
case; and toward which we shall, for the sake of context, advert to the facts
and figures for A.Y. 2006-07, i.e., the year under reference in the instant
appeal. The assessee [AFP] is an International News Agency having its
headquarters at France. AFP is owned by Government of France. There exists a
mandatory stipulation under the 1956 Cabinet Resolution inasmuch as „foreign
news agencies are required to distribute news in text form and photos within
India Page |3 through any of the Indian news agencies such as PTI, UNI, IANS,
etc. Such Indian news agencies must be owned and managed by Indians who enjoy
full and final authority in the selection of foreign news for distribution.
Keeping in view the 1956 Cabinet Resolution, AFP has been distributing its
text news and photos connected with news in India through various Indian news
agencies viz. Press Trust of India (herein after „PTI‟) and IANS India Pvt.
Ltd. (herein after „IANS‟). The news on the web can directly be provided to
the subscribers in India on their web sites by AFP.
7\. There were two categories of payments received by AFP from India one for
transmission of news and the other for transmission of news photos. It
provides daily reports of international events of interest which occur in the
various fields such as politics, sports, economic, etc. The agreements with
subscribers invariably speak of provision of "Information". Prompt knowledge
and publication of worldwide news, textual as well as visual which are
essential for the conduct of an international News Agency for wide circulation
of news
8\. In the Assessee‟s viewpoint, News per-se are not property hence, are not
copyrightable. Therefore, as per terms of agreements between AFP and IANS&
PTI, the predominant or primary intention between the contracting parties
involves consideration for transmission of photos, reporting of current events
etc. and does not secure any copyright in the expression of such news reports.
Accordingly, the payments made under the above said agreements did not partake
the nature of „royalty‟ in the context of the meaning of the term royalty in
common parlance as well as the definition contained in Explanation 2 of
Section 9 (1) (vi) of the Income Tax Act or Article 13 (3)of the Indo-French
Treaty. The Assessee had filed a NIL return for A.Y. 2006-07.
9\. The A.O. as well as the Ld. CIT(A), were of the view that various terms
under the agreement entered into between assessee and Indian news agencies
inasmuch as IANS&PTI and consideration of pleadings and contentions clearly
pointed out that copyright subsisted in news-reports as well as photographs
distributed/circulated by the assessee in terms of Copyright Act, 1957 and
hence, the payments as received by the assessee qualify as „royalties‟ in
terms of definition contained in Explanation 2 of Section 9 (1) (vi) of the
Income Tax Page |4 Act or Article 13 (3)of the Indo-French Treaty and,
accordingly, the consideration of Rs. 65,23,284/- received from Web/ FTP
subscribers was held to be taxable @ 15% on gross basis.
10\. A brief shorn of contentions put forth by the Ld. DR on the issue
regarding admissibility of additional evidence under Rule 29 of ITAT Rules,
1963 could be summarised in the ensuing paragraphs.
(ii). The Ld. DR contends that, the revenue department could search some more
information in the public domain (internet) on the assessee's complaint
against Google Inc. in US Court. This complaint renders details regarding the
nature of business carried out by the assessee, information on its products,
nature of ownership rights in the news item/photographs and claims of AFP that
use of its products without proper authorization leads to infringement of
copyrights. In order to buttress the point that the said doubts are relevant
to the issue in hand the ld DR took us through various paragraphs of the
complaint to stress the point that these documents contain important facts on
the issue of copyright owned by the assessee. Some of the paragraphs of the
complaint cited are: Through its subscribers, AFP‟s photographs and stories
which read millions of readers on a daily basis (paragraph 10); AFP‟s
photographs and news stories which are original and creative works (paragraph
11); AFP licenses for its news photographs and articles (paragraph 12); AFP
licenses use of its photographs to AFP clients for the purpose of accompanying
news stories headlines or to convey a news event on their own (paragraph 14)
AFP news stories are available only by subscription (paragraph 17); story
headlines and leads are qualitatively the most important aspects of a story
and are painstakingly created. They capture the reader‟s attention and
describe what the rest of the article is about (paragraph 18); AFP having
registered copyrights in all of its news wires with the US Library of
Congress‟s copyright office since at least January 1, 2002 (paragraph 19)
Details of photograph headlines and story leads-
Page |5 Defendants are infringing the "heart" of AFP‟s stories by taking what
qualitatively are the most important elements of the individual news stories
(i.e.) the photographs headlines and story leads). Paragraphs
41); Details of AFP owning all title and interest in the numerous copyrights
of the photographs (paragraphs 49, 50); Headlines (paragraph 58); story leads
(paragraphs 65 and 66); copyrights management information (paragraph 73) and
details of claims for information of copyrights pages 16 and 17 of the PB).
The Information pertaining to another complaint filed by AFP against Star that
reiterates AFP‟s position that its products are copyrighted and its
publication/reproduction without authorization leads to infringement of
copyrights. These documents, prepared and submitted by AFP to the courts, are
filed as additional evidence. By the Revenue
(iii). It was further submitted that, Deptt. had sought information on its
case with Google Inc. but information was never provided to the Department.
Further, a copy of news item with a credit "AFP" published by Times of India
in its edition dated April 28, 2014 with headlines, " N Korea calls South's
prez 'prostitute' " and" Glad Mandela isn't alive today: Tutu" were submitted
as illustrations of the nature of news items licensed. These news items prove
that the headline and storyline are creative literary work and copyright
subsists in these news items. The value is not of breaking/current news that
is reported by everyone and co-copyright could be claimed for that, but how
the same news is presented as a story line or news item by journalists/ news
writer that has creative input and are copyrighted.
(iv). The ld DR argued that aforesaid documents belonging to the assessee goes
to the root of the issue and contradicts the unsubstantiated claims made by
the Ld. AR that it is only providing current news, which lacks the basic
ingredients of Copyright and is not copyrightable. In this background, the Ld.
DR urges this Tribunal Page |6 to admit these documents as additional evidence
and pass an order or any other order for substantial cause to this effect. The
Ld. DR also contends that a copy of these documents has already been provided
to the Ld. AR on the second day of hearing.
11\. On the other hand, the Ld. AR‟s contentions are summarised as below:
> (i). The ld AR Mr. T.N. Chopra vehemently opposed the admission of the
> aforesaid additional evidence. As regards The Times of India, Newspaper,
> News Item dated 28th April, 2014, the Ld. AR submits that, the aforesaid
> additional evidence filed at belated stage does not in any case has a direct
> relevance to the present proceedings before us.
> (ii). With regard to the copy of suit filed by AFP against Google, Ld. AR
> submitted that the Revenue had filed the copy of the suit dated 7th March,
> 2005 relating to copyright infringement. However, an amended complaint dated
> 21stApril, 2005 was subsequently filed by AFP before the District Court of
> Colombia wherein additional charge for misappropriation of hot news was also
> made. The Google's reply dated May 19, 2005, denying these allegations on
> both counts were also enclosed. The entire litigation ended in compromise
> and on grounds of business expediency, the compromise document has been
> agreed to be kept confidential by both parties namely AFP and Google (Please
> Note not placed on record). It is further submitted by the Ld. AR that,
> while the US Supreme Court adopted the hot news appropriation doctrine as
> Federal Common Law, five States of America have since adopted the hot news
> as part of State Unfair Competition Law. A serious debate is going on in
> America between News Aggregators and News Agencies regarding the hot news
> doctrine and also the imperative need to amend the copyright law so as to
> protect the rights of news agencies. Most of the litigation in America on
> the issue of hot news doctrine has ended in compromise between the
> litigating parties.
Page |7
(iii). The Ld. AR Shri. T.N. Chopra argued that DR has misquoted Appellant's
Counsel by stating that information provided by AFP under the agreements with
PTI, IANS and web subscribers is intellectual property; and that he
subsequently modified his argument to say that the payments received by AFP
were for transmission of information regarding current events and not for
transfer of any copyright. This is incorrect. According to the ld AR Shri T.N.
ChopraIt is the consistent stand of the assessee before the Revenue that the
true intention of the parties is transmission of information about current
events. (And referred - Synopsis of arguments filed before us at pages 1 to 9
of paper Book 3 whereby the stand of the Appellant on basic issues involved
has been clearly indicated which is based on the detailed submissions made
earlier before the Assessing Officer, CIT (Appeals) as well as DRP).
(iv). Further it was submitted by the ld AR that before the AO, apart from
submissions filed from time to time, a detailed opinion note on the issue of
nature of payments received by the assessee for provision of information
comprising news items and news photographs indicating the factual and legal
aspects of the question were filed at the assessment stage. (Refer pages 64 to
90 of PB I). The Appellant had filed information before the Revenue regarding
business being carried out by AFP under the heading business mode. In the
light of these facts, the Ld. AR asserts that the stand taken by Ld. DR
inasmuch as the payments received from news agencies for supply of news and
news photographs is made for transfer of intellectual property is incorrect.
(v). As regards the nature of Transaction with PTI, IANS and Web Subscribers,
the Ld. AR submitted that, the agreements with the parties placed in PB-I,
nomenclature of the transaction has been differently described by using the
words sale, license, fee as well as information products and services provided
by AFP. The Ld. AR states that, this is not determinative factor and the true
nature and Page |8 character of the transaction has to be ascertained from
covenants of agreement in light of surrounding facts and circumstances and
referred to Supreme Court decisions as under:-
 The state of Punjab, Appellant Vs. Associated Hotels of India Ltd. 1972(001)
CTR 001 (SC)  State of Rajasthan, Appellant Vs. Man Industrial Corporation
Ltd. 1969 (056) AIR 1245 (SC)  Sentinel Rolling Shutters & Engg. Co. (Pvt.)
Ltd. 1978 (065) AIR 1747 (SC)  M/s. Hindustan Shipyards Ltd. Vs. State A.P.
2000-0-AIR (SC) 2411  Patnaik and Co. Appellant Vs. State of Orrisa
1965-o-AIR (SC) 1655
(vi). The Ld. AR submits that, the three agreements entered into by AFP with
Indian news agencies clearly indicate that reports of current events had been
provided as a part of AFP Newswire and AFP International News Picture Service
covering political, economic, business, corporate, sports and other areas.
Page 33 of PB 1 refers to AFP news wire "News of interest to newspapers", Page
45 refers to "Photo service for resale" as art of information to print
newspapers and news magazine. According to the ld AR, the sine qua non of
copyright is originality," Original, as the term used in copyright, means only
that the work was independently created by the author and that it possesses at
least some minimal degree of originality. The first person to find and report
a particular fact has not created the fact he has merely discovered it. One
who discovers a fact is not its maker or originator. News of the day has been
specifically held to be covered in this category in Feist's case. (Refer para
15 at page 100 of PB 3) and strongly opposed the admission of the additional
evidences.
12\. We have heard both the parties at length and perused the material on
record on the issue of allowability of fresh/ additional evidence in terms of
Rule 29 of the ITAT Rules, 1963.
Page |9
13\. On perusal of Application field on 13.06.2014 requesting the admission of
additional evidence we note that the information adduced by the Revenue
Department particularly that of case details pertaining to assessee‟s case
against Google Inc. before U.S. District Court, Colombia were time and again
solicited from the Assessee/ Appellant at different stages of litigation i.e.
both by AO as well as Ld. CIT(A). In this regard, it is imperative for us to
note that the assessee was provided with sufficient opportunities to submit
relevant details/ documents pertaining to Google Inc. case etc. (which are now
being enlisted for consideration as fresh/ additional documents before us)
but, such details/ documents were not submitted before AO and Ld. CIT(A) for
consideration. We observe that, even till date the relevant case-papers
pertaining to Google‟s case has not been furnished by the Ld. AR and instead,
when the Ld. DR has sought to furnish said information and case-papers in the
form of additional evidence obtained from the internet, the Ld. AR opposes the
same without citing any specific reason except, stating on record that the
case with Google Inc. had ended in a confidential settlement.
14\. In the instant case, it goes without saying that the case-papers
pertaining to assessee‟s dispute with Google Inc. is of crucial importance in
determination of the central issue at hand i.e. whether copyright subsisted in
the newspaper reports, photographs distributed/ circulated by assessee in
India, since the case pertains to suit dated 7th March, 2005 filed by the
assessee before District Court, Colombia alleging Google Inc. of copyright
infringement. In this regard, the Ld. AR contests that the suit was later
modified on 21stApril, 2005 so as to include an additional charge for
misappropriation of „hot news‟ however, the same does not seem to hold much
relevance in deciding the question of admissibility of additional evidence.
Since the ld AR failed to place the so-called modified suit (21st April 2005)
nor brought anything on record to suggest that contentions and pleadings set
forth in the suit (7th March 2005) has been modified. It must be remembered
that where a party has the means in his power of rebutting and explaining the
evidence adduced against him, if it does not tend to truth the omission to do
so furnishes a strong inference against him.
P a g e | 10
15\. We further observe that the additional evidence as adduced by the Ld. DR
before us particularly the case-papers relating to assessee‟s case against
Google Inc. before US District Court, Colombia had always remained within the
exclusive knowledge and possession of the assessee and not produced before the
AO as well as Ld. CIT(A) despite insistence by the respective authorities for
reasons best known only to the assessee. The Ld. DR has by way of additional
evidence has inter-alia adduced case-details in para 5(k) as listed earlier as
available from the internet. Further, the Ld. DR has invited our attention and
discussed the relevance of each of the paragraph of the complaint that
contains information on the business, products of the assessee, copyrights
owned by it and its allegations regarding infringement of copyrights of Google
Inc. And the stand adopted by the assessee before the US District Court of
Colombia on the issue of copyright infringement, which in the present case has
a bearing on deciding the central issue in the present case.
16\. We observe that the copy of complaint which could not be considered at
any prior stage of proceedings in the instant case and could only be brought
to light from the internet domain before us hence, the same needs to be
considered. Therefore, it would be prudent for us to state that in absence of
any direct evidence to the contrary with respect to case-details/ complaint by
the assessee, we are left with no option than to consider the next best
evidence, which in the instant case happens to be case-details as obtained
from the internet. In this regard, it is important to point out that,
admission of the same shall cause no prejudice to the assessee as the same
pertains to assessee‟s own case and even none of its contents have been
controverted by the assessee.
17\. Thus, we find considerable strength in the reasoning attributed by the
Revenue regarding admissibility of the complaint document as it is the next
best evidence available before this tribunal. Since the adjudication of any
dispute involves quest for truth,and as per the Indian Evidence Act, 1872
„Secondary evidence‟ could be admitted when primary evidence is not provided
by the party concerned in whose possession it is admittedly there; and ITAT
being the final fact finding body, it is our bounden duty to take on board
complete spectrum of facts for adjudication of a dispute. Thus, we allow the
Application P a g e | 11 for Additional evidence made by the Ld. DR in terms
of Rule 29 of the ITAT Rules, 1963 and admit the same accordingly.
18\. Coming back to analysing the principal question of law involved in the
present case, it is pertinent to briefly go through the relevant facts
involved in the instant case.
19\. At this stage, we are not reiterating facts mentioned earlier for the
sake of brevity and in order to avoid repetition. In the instant case, since
the assessee had filed a NIL return for A.Y. 2006-07, various notices were
issued by the AO and replies were supplied by the Assessee. The Ld. AO on a
detailed perusal of the terms/ clauses of various agreements entered into by
the assessee with the Indian news agencies made the following factual
observations:
\- All stories, news, pictures were AFP property and were protected against
commercial exploitation by any third party.
\- The subscribers acknowledged that AFP was the copyright owner of all the
information provided to it and that the agreement constitutes a license to use
the information. ] "The notice appearing on the institutional Agence France-
Presse web site at the afp.com address pertains to marketing information
displayed to the public and does not concern information services supplied to
AFP professional subscribers". This aspect would imply that, AFP grants a
partial copy right/ right to use the copyright to its subscribers.
\- It has been acknowledged that unauthorised use of text and photos could
bring out a suit based upon breach of contract or breach of trust upon unfair
competition.
\- The information supplied by AFP is not in the nature of „raw material‟ as
argued by the Appellant since, the user of the text/ photo is not allowed to
change the text/photo materially and is required to mention the source along
with the print in the newspaper/ magazine. Without accepting, if it could be
assumed that the content of information is raw material then the user should
be at liberty to use & process as per his will, secondly, the finished product
must be a distinguishable & new product (in comparison to raw material) and
thirdly the user in that case need not be required to mention "AFP" as their
source.
P a g e | 12
\- The consideration paid by subscribers to AFP is not for their personal
consumption, but for commercial exploitation and such rights are inbuilt
within the agreement.
\- The subscriber copies the news & photos from the wires of the assessee.
\- Such content is only available to the subscribers.
\- The subscriber puts them on its website.
\- The website of the assessee is a news website. The target of the subscriber
is to attract more & more visitors to its website. The more the number of
visitors on his website, the more he gets in the advertisement revenues.
\- The content of various subscribers displayed on there has to mention the
source /credit line. Such use of content helps the subscriber to earn more &
more advertisement revenue.
\- Such type of use is covered by use of copyright or in case of such use
without valid permission it constitutes infringement of copyright. Which is
the reason that assessee has filed the present court suit.
\- The end user when visits the website, the viewed pages get stored in the
memory of computer of the end user. In the result, the subscriber is given the
right to copy and use the copy on its website but, not commercially exploit
the content owned by the assessee.
20\. On the strength of facts/ observations as outlined above as well as
submissions made by the assessee, AO had observed that, the consideration
received by the assessee for use or right to use copyright of a literary,
artistic or scientific work would get covered within the definition of
„royalties‟ as available in paragraph 3 of Article 13 of the tax treaty
between India and France and Section 9(1)(vi) of the Act. As a result, the
order for assessment was passed by the Ld. AO in terms of Sec. 143(3) of the
Income Tax Act, 1961 whereby entire consideration as received from Indian news
agencies and Web/ FTP subscribers was held to be taxable subjected to tax @
15% on gross basis.
21\. Being aggrieved by the AO‟s Order, the Assessee preferred an appeal
before Ld. CIT(A). The Ld. CIT (A) determined that the essential question of
law which required adjudication was whether the copyright subsisted over the
work broad casted by the assessee in India and whether it is a transfer by
grant of a P a g e | 13 licence or otherwise, of this right to broad cast
under the distribution agreements entered into by the appellant company with
the Indian Entities.
22\. With regard the aforesaid issue under consideration, the Ld. AR contended
that, no copyright subsisted in the work of the assessee. Also, as there is no
right to use the copyright the same should not get covered by the definition
of royalties available under para 3 of Art.13 of DTAA between the two
countries.
23\. Reliance was placed upon the landmark case University of London Press Ltd
v University Tutorial Press Ltd (1916) 2 Ch D 601, wherein examiners were
appointed by London University for matriculation examination. Two professors
were appointed as examiners for setting the question papers in Mathematics.
Earlier the Senate of the University of London passed a resolution that "it be
made a condition of the appointment of every examiner that copyright possessed
by him in examination papers prepared by him for the University shall be
vested in the University ......." Later on the University entered into an
agreement with the University of London Press Ltd (hereinafter referred to as
the plaintiff) by which it was agreed to assign and make over to the plaintiff
company all each copyright and rights of publication as the University might
have in such respective papers. The plaintiff company proceeded to publish the
examination papers ·in 1916. The Court decided that copyright in the question
paper were vested in the professors jointly with the London University and the
plaintiff company. Hence there is no bar for joint ownership in the copy right
as decided in the land mark case.
24\. Further reliance was placed upon the case of Zee Entertainment
Enterprises Ltd v Gazendra Singh 2008 (36) PTC 53 (Bom), the HC has reiterated
that although there is no copyright in concept but copyright does exists, as a
general proposition in a concept note and the same is entitled to be protected
under the Copy Right Act. If it contains copyrightable work, the author/owner
thereof would be entitled to the protection accorded under CRA, 1957.
25\. Having considered the contentions of the assessee, the Ld. CIT(A)
observed that, the appellant received news items from abroad and is allowed P
a g e | 14 to distribute the news only through Indian News Agencies. In India,
it is distributed through PTI, UNI and IANS and the Appellant has actually
received money in Indian currency from the three Indian entities. The Copy
right is a bundle of rights, as has been held under leading judgments of
various Indian courts relating to CRA, 1957. Further, once distribution right
has been conferred upon the appellant, it is entitled for the abridgement
within the meaning of Sec. 2(a) of CRA and abridgement right is within the
purview of CRA as decided in Macmillan v K. J. Cooper AIR 1924 PC 75. It has
already been stated that there is no bar for joint holding of copyright
University of London Press Ltd (Supra).
26\. In light of the above, the Ld. CIT(A) observed that, there is no
escapement from the fact that the right conferred upon the appellant is a
right on which copy right subsists and upheld the order by the AO as correct
inasmuch as the copyright in the instant case falls within the purview of
meaning ascribed under Copyright Act, 1957. AO was right in holding that the
impugned copyright is covered by the definition of royalties within the
meaning of paragraph 3 of Art.13 of DTAA read with Explanation 2 (v) to
Sec.9(1)(vi) of the Act. To this extent the arguments made by Appellant were
not sustainable and dismissed accordingly.
27\. In order to summarise, the observations made by the Ld. CIT(A) are as
under:
\- The assessment of income of the appellant at Rs.2,26,49,964/- by the AO was
upheld as correct and such action of the AO was sustained and the ground
raised by the Assessee to this effect was dismissed.
\- The application of rate of taxation by AO was upheld as correct and the
action by the AO was sustained hence, ground raised by Assessee to this effect
was dismissed.
\- The charge for interest was deemed to be consequential and the ground
raised by Assessee to this effect was dismissed.
\- The Appellant‟s claim to the effect that the concerned AO did not allow
credit of TDS in respect of Rs.14, 91, 7211/-, the AO was directed to look
into the matter and allow the credit as per claim admissible. The ground
raised by the Assessee to this effect was allowed for statistical purposes.
P a g e | 15
28\. Having outlined the relevant facts in the instant case, we now proceed to
consider the arguments/ submissions made by respective parties before us for
determination of the principle issue under consideration. At first, the
arguments put forth before us by the Ld. AR have been summarised below:
(i). Shifting of stand by the Revenue: The basic stand of the Assessee before
the Revenue Department has been that the news reports as well as photographs
provided by the assessee under the AFP news wire containing reports of current
events lack originality and are devoid of modicum of creativity. This basic
contention has not been controverted by the Ld. DRP and the Panel has observed
at page 17 of its order for assessment year 2008-09 that "nowhere has the AO
invoked the provisions of Section 13(l)(a) and even otherwise originality is
not a condition and the word 'original' has not be prefixed before the word
'literary' either in the Act or in the Treaty". A similar observation has been
made vide para 8.1.5.1 at page 19 of its order. Thus, the consistent stand of
the AO, the learned CIT (A) and the learned DR has been that originality is
not required for qualifying as literary work. It was on this basis that the
Revenue has treated news reports containing narration of current events as
copyrightable. There is no such finding by the department that news reports
contain originality or that any creative input has been made in such news
reports by the assessee. Headlines given by AFP are often changed by
newspapers as per their choice. The Ld. DR at this belated stage before the
hon'ble Tribunal spun out an entirely new story claiming that "AFP provides
the news items and photographs and not the current news as is claimed" [para 4
at page 2 of learned DR's submission). In para 28, the Ld. DR claimed on the
basis of Suits filed against Google and Star and also the contents of news
item in the Times of India that the assessee's information "consist of news
articles/news story which possessed literary quality". Again in para 9, it is
stated that "the derivatives of news which are news item/headline/story line
and photographs are creative works and meet all the requirements of
copyright". This shifting of stand by the Revenue before the Hon'ble Tribunal
is sought to be supported on the basis of additional evidence as indicated
above.
P a g e | 16
(ii). Without prejudice to objections by assessee against admission of
additional evidence, Ld. AR submits that AFP vs. Star and Times of India news
items referred by the Ld. DR in para 1 of his submissions do not justify the
turn-around of its stand by the Revenue. The headlines in the Times of India
cited by the Ld. DR do not have any trace of creativity and are not protected
under the copyright. No copyright protection is available for names, titles or
short phrases as stated by United States Copyright Office.
(iii) AFP vs. Google: The Ld. CIT DR Sanjeev Sharma has cited assertions made
in the complaint by AFP to support his argument that AFP's news stories and
photographs are original and creative works protected under the Copyright Law.
It is submitted that the claims made by the litigant in a litigation with a
third party would not ipso-facto alter the essence of the agreements with PTI,
IANS and Web subscribers and conclude the legal issue of nature of payments
under these agreements. The suit is not merely for infringement but also hot
news misappropriation. The stand taken by Google in its reply as annexed
herewith contains denial of the violation on both the counts. The dispute has
ended into a compromise by both the parties on the basis of the prevailing
facts and issues involved. It is legally incorrect to say that such litigation
in the USA would automatically conclude the issue involved in the present
appeals.
(A) The example of current news given in para 12 by the Ld. CIT DR in his
submission does not help the Revenue. The agreements with PTI, etc. merely
envisage providing current news containing reports of current events. There is
no indication of any articles on various subjects being provided under the
newswire by AFP. As indicated above, this position has been accepted by the
Department earlier and shifting of stand by the Department at this belated
stage is factually and legally unsustainable.
(iv) The Ld. CIT DR has referred in para 8 of his submissions to the statement
by AFP in the complaint against Google regarding "infringing the heart of
AFP's stories what qualitatively the most important elements of the individual
news stories (i.e. the photograph, headlines and story leads)." This statement
has been relied upon by the Revenue in support of its stand P a g e | 17 that
news items of AFP are copyrightable. This is clearly at variance with the
stand of the DRP that there is no copyright in news but only in literary form
in which it is expressed.
(E) It needs to be pointed out here that in the agreement with the PTI, there
is no mention regarding Copyright owned by the AFP for the news reports
transmitted as "information". Whereas in the agreement with IANS, pages 39 to
44 are the general agreement and page 45 to 47 of PB 1 is the Addendum
containing the specific of the redistribution arrangement of the news
photographs. Addendum is mentioned vide clause 1 (a) at page 39 of PB 1. It is
only in Addendum that clause relating to Copyright has been included. Clause
17 refers to Copyright and clause 18 (b) provides that AFP information is used
in a News context and in accordance with this agreement. Thus, photographs are
being provided for the purpose of reporting current events and not for any
non- news user. This provision is to be viewed in the context of Section 52
(1) (b) (ii) of the Copyright Act.
(v) Reporting of current events is outside the purview of Copyright Act
[Section 52]. Section 52(b) clearly speaks of the exception for reporting of
current events. Please refer to para 8 and 9 of the detailed note submitted to
the AO, placed at pages 72 and 73 of Paper Book 1. Fair dealing envisages that
the purpose should be bona-fide reporting of current events and the source of
the report should be acknowledged. The fact that news is to be reported in a
newspaper clearly means that commercial purpose under this exception is not a
disabling factor. Furthermore, photograph which is used for reporting of
current events and not for non-news context and acknowledgement is given would
satisfy the exception under section 52(b)(ii). The concept of fair dealing has
to be construed in the context of the subject matter of the exception.
(vi) Para 16 in the submissions of Ld. CIT DR states that under the agreements
with AFP, the parties are using the information for commercial exploitation
and fair dealing is not involved. Section 52 of the Copyright Act protects
rights of consumers. If literary and artistic works are used for purposes P a
g e | 18 indicated in section 52 of the Copyright Act, consumers are protected
from the offense of copyright infringement. This is the essence of Section
52\. Reporting of current events and printing of photographs for reporting
current events is the protection flowing out of Copyright Law. It is not a
right flowing out of the agreement entered into by AFP. Since the information
has been gathered by AFP and is not in public domain, it is being provided
under the agreement to the parties on payment of consideration. Had the
information been in public domain and available to the consumers, section 52
would have enabled the consumers to use the information for news reporting
purposes. This is the rationale and not what the learned DR has claimed in
para 16 of his submissions.
(vi) With regard to the additional evidence concerning Daniel Morel, it is
stated above that the same may not be admitted being incomplete, unverified
and filed at the belated stage. Without prejudice to the objection against
admission, it is submitted that in a case where photographs taken by a
professional photographer of outstanding stature has unique aesthetic merit
eloquently depicting human suffering, such a photograph has intrinsic value in
a non-news context. If it is used for non- news context and not for reporting
contemporaneous news and further acknowledgement of the source is deliberately
removed such a case would obviously be outside the purview of Section 52.
(vii) An array of judicial authorities have been cited in support of
Appellant's case that news being reports of current events does not have the
trappings of property and courts are unanimous that news being narration of
current events is not copyrightable. INS Vs. Associated Press (page 107 to 122
of PB 2) is a land mark judgment which treated news report as quasi property.
However, the INS doctrine has now been undermined with the courts veering
round the view that creating property or quasi-property rights in information
stands to upset the statutory balance carefully created through the copyright
Act. The latest decision is Idea Cellular (174 to 248 of PB 3).
P a g e | 19
(viii) Para 30 of Ld. DR's submissions runs contrary to the interpretation
placed on the expression in the OECD commentary, it alludes to the concept of
knowhow being undivulged information necessary for the industrial reproduction
of a product or process. Current news cannot be covered under this category.
29\. On the other hand, the Ld. DR, Shri Sanjeev Sharma has passionately
defended before us the orders passed by the lower authorities and submitted
that copyright subsists in the news reports as well as photographs supplied by
the assessee to various Indian news agencies. A summary of Ld. DR‟s
submissions could be outlined as under:
(i) Issue of Sale/ License: The Ld. DR argued that the primary intention
between AFP as well as the Indian News Agencies is to make payments for
regular and uninterrupted supply of information as outlines in the agreements.
The payment is not being made towards sale of facts and passing of
information. In this regard, it was contended that even photograph were
covered under the said agreements since they are species of same genre and
have no value independently.
(ii) The Ld. AR contended that, information being sold under the said
agreements is intellectual property and is not something tangible. When the
bench sought clarification regarding, how is it sale? The Ld. AR modified his
arguments and submitted that the payments received is for "transmission" of
"current event" factual information and not for transfer of any copyright
rights under the Copyright Act. It was also argued that nature of contract has
to be determined with reference to the predominant and primary intention
between the parties.
(B) In this regard, the Ld. DR contends that, the arguments of the Ld. AR
inasmuch as payment being received is attributable towards sale of information
is factually incorrect and overlooks explicit provisions under the said
agreements and are contrary to their line arguments. Reference is made to
article 17 on page 47 (IANS), article 5 on page 49 (HT Media), article 6 on
page 28 article 16(a) on page 29 of the PB-1 filed by the P a g e | 20
assessee. Further, the payments are received for allowing the use of licensed
information. These provisions are explicitly stated in the agreements (page
34- and 35 (PTI), pages 45 to 48 (IANS) and pages 56 and 57 (HT Media
Services).
(C) Nature of Information: As regards the claim of the Ld. AR to the effect
that, only information pertaining to current events/ current news has been
provided is not true. Three agreements filed by the assessee in the PB-1
provides for the person to receive AFP's information as clearly defined in the
agreement. Schedule A of agreement with PTI defines the information as
material derived from the AFP services (page 33, PB-1). In the IANS agreement
the definition of information is available on page 44 of the PB- 1 and read
as: "AFP International news Picture Service covering political, economic,
business, corporate, orts and other areas. In respect of HT Media Services
definition of information is available on page 5 of PB-1 and reads as:
information shall be defined as material derived from the following AFP
service(s); Text- A selection of all news items .......Photos.......
Therefore, the Ld. DR contends that, AFP provides the news items and
photographs and not current news as is claimed. It provides material derived
from information. News item is a story that is written by the
reporter/journalist in regard to particular news and that is not restricted to
current news and these products are copyrighted. The subscribers use this
information to commercially exploit the same by publishing the same in their
newspapers/web products.
(ii) Whether copyright subsists in the information provided: Ld. AR has
claimed that restrictions on use of information does tantamount to making
information copyrightable. It was further argued that, different courts have
held that ideas and thoughts are not copyrightable and news is also not
copyrightable. Hence, no copyright subsists in the information provided by AFP
to various subscribers including various news agencies. In this regard, the
Ld. DR contends intends to place reliance upon the following:
P a g e | 21  Refer page 89 and 90 of the Revenue's Paper Book.
 Article 9 (Credit) on page 46 of PB-1 of the assessee,  Article
17(Copyright) on page 47 in relation to IANS agreement;  Article 5 (copyright
on page 49);
 and Article 8 (credit on page 56) in respect of HT Media Services agreement.
30\. In light of the above, it was contended that the agreement with HT Media
Services is for text and photos and explicit provisions exist which leads to
an unambiguous and inescapable conclusion that AFP is the copyright owner of
information. Therefore, by entering into agreement with its subscribers, they
get a right to use and commercially exploit the information, and any usage of
such information without the license agreement could lead to infringement of
copyrights of AFP.
(A) Paragraph 7 (on page 8) of the Assessment Order refers to settlement of
disputes with Google Inc., which mentioned that AFP agreed to withdraw a
lawsuit filed in March 2005 accusing the world's number one Internet search
engine of copyright infringement for allegedly posting AFP headlines news
summaries and photographs without permission.
(B) Pages 20 to 22 of the Additional evidence are a news item, "AFP news
agency sues the Star newspaper over unauthorized use of its stories". The news
item reads that, "The new agency is accusing the Star, owned by Radio Africa,
of infringing its copyright by reproducing and authorizing the reproduction of
substantial portion of its literary work without seeking prior written
authority".
(C) The Ld. DR contends that, whether the Assessee could now turnaround and
claim (as Ld. AR has being claiming repeatedly) that there does not exist any
creativity, copyright in its information and the same is not in the nature of
literary work in absence of any originality solely for the purposes of
avoiding taxation in India. How will it deal with its own admission and
averment in the complaint against Google Inc., which has led to a settlement
with Google Inc. entered into licensing agreement and consequent withdrawal of
complaint by AFP?
P a g e | 22 (D) The Ld. AR has placed reliance upon the Handbook of Copyright
Law in India as appearing in pages 52 to 72 of the PB submitted by the
Revenue. It is contended by the Ld. DR that this is an important government
document on Copyright. At Page 59, in response to a question whether a
photograph is an artistic work or not? It is replied that, "There is no
copyright over news. However, there is copyright over the way in which a news
item is reported." Since, it is not necessary to register a work to claim
copyright, any acquisition of Copyright is automatic and does not require any
formality. In this regard, reliance could be placed upon Page 59 of PB which
clearly shows that, copyright comes into existence as soon as a work is
created and no formality is required to be completed for acquiring copyright.
(E) Further, pages 62 and 63 of Revenue‟s PB is explanative about copyright of
foreign works in India, as if such works are Indian works. As regards,
copyright of nationals of countries who are members of Berne Convention for
the Protection of literary and Artistic Works, Universal Copyright Convention
and the TRIPS Agreements are protected in India through the International
Copyright Order.
(F) The Ld. DR as an illustration submits that, „it rained today morning‟ is a
current news and one cannot claim copyright over this by claiming that it
reported the event first therefore, none else can report this fact. But if a
news item or a story is published by anyone, indicating the background of
ongoing heat wave, records of temperature, and historical records of rain in
the first week of June and also the respite from power shortage or progress of
monsoon, then this news item/story cannot be reproduced or used by anyone
without proper authorization.
Unauthorized use of the same will amount to infringement of copyrights of the
news story Publisher. In fact, it is the case of the assessee against Google
Inc. that, the photos and news items being part of information licensed by the
assessee are literary (news text) and artistic work (photographs) and the
copyright in respect of these works are protected under Copyright Act 1957\.
P a g e | 23
(iii) Whether exception, if any, under Section 52 of Copyright Act, 1957 is
applicable in case of the assessee: The Ld. DR submits that, licensed
information of the assessee is a literary and artistic work as per provisions
of Section 2(0) of Copyright Act, 1957. He further contends that, copyright
subsists in the information licensed by the assessee as per Section 13 (a) of
Copyright Act being an original literary work. In the instant case, the
license allows the subscriber (user) to use the information to reproduce the
work, issue copies of the work to public and make translation of the work and
adaptation of the work. Without grant of such licensing rights which are
otherwise exclusive right of the information owner (AFP), any usage would lead
to infringement of copyright.
(A) The Ld. AR argues that, even if the argument of the revenue is accepted
that information provided is a literary work, Section 52(b) of the Copyright
Act, 1957 would apply to current events and fair dealing with the current
event (literary work) will not lead to infringement of Copyright Act, 1957.
The Ld. AR claims that provisions of Section 52 override Sections 13 and 14.
Ld. AR claims that AFP is allowing the user to deal with the current event and
such use does not lead to infringement of its right. In this regard, the
Revenue submits that the position adopted by the assessee is contrary to the
provisions under different agreements and also run contradictory to its
assertion in complaint against Google Inc. and Star.
(B) Section 52(b) of the Copyright Act, 1957 provides the purposes of fair
dealing. These are situations in which the law allows use of a work without
permission of the owner of Copyright. (Refer page 26 of the PB-1 of the
assessee and page 53 of the Revenue‟s PB). These exemptions are very specific
and do not include the act of using the licensed information of the assessee.
The subscribers do not use the information provided by the assessee for the
purpose of research, study, criticism, review and news reporting but use the
same (text and photos) as such in its publications to commercially exploit the
same. The assessee is licensing the information not for the purpose of fair
dealing but to enable them to commercially exploit the same.
P a g e | 24 (C) At Page 86 of the Revenue's PB, is a document obtained from
the website of the UK Government which deals with the issue of fair dealing
under UK Copyright law, which as per claim of the Ld. AR is similar to Indian
Copyright Law, and mentions that factors that have been identified by the
courts as relevant in determining whether a particular dealing with a work is
fair deal include:
\- Does using the work affect the market for the original work? If a use of a
work acts as a substitute for it, causing the owner to lose revenue, then it
is not likely to be fair.
\- Is the amount of the work taken reasonable and appropriate? Was it
necessary to use the amount that was taken? Usually only part of a work may be
used.
(D) It has been observed in M/s Blackwood and Sons Ltd v. A.N. Parasuraman
(Refer page 96 and 97 of Revenue's PB) that in order to constitute fair
dealing there must be no intention on the part of the alleged infringer, to
compete with the copyright holder of the work and to derive profits from such
competition and also, the motive of the alleged infringer in dealing with the
work must not be improper. Therefore, licensing the use of information in the
case of the assessee is not covered by fair dealing clause of Section 52 of
the Copyright Act and this is evident from the agreements.
(iv) Income Tax Act v. Copyright Act: The Ld. AR claims that question of
taxation have to be decided under the tax statutes and not under Copyright
Act. He further claims that, even if copyright protection is claimed in the
agreements by AFP, the provisions in the agreement does not automatically
alter the nature of payment and also does not obliterate the provisions of any
statute. On the one hand, he claims that the definition of literary work in
section 2(0) of Copyright Act cannot be used for the purpose Income Tax Act
because both the statutes are not pari- materia. While, on the other hand, Ld.
AR seeks protection under the Copyright Act, 1957 by invoking Section 52 (b)
of Copyright Act. As mentioned above, the licensing of information and use of
the 'same by P a g e | 25 the subscribers is not covered by the fair deal
clause in Section 52 of the Copyright Act.
(A) The terms of Copyright, literary work, artistic work or scientific work is
not defined in the tax treaty between India and France (DTAA). Article 3(2) of
the DTAA reads as: "As regards the application of the Convention by a
Contracting State, any term not defined therein, shall unless the context
otherwise requires, have meaning which it has under the law of that
Contracting State concerning the taxes to which Convention Applies". The
Convention in India applies to income tax (Article 2, DTAA). It is apparent
that these terms are also not defined in the Income Tax Act. In view of
explicit provisions of the DTTA, the meaning of undefined terms cannot be
sought from other sources including other laws of India. The Revenue submits
that the term copyright has been used in the agreements of assessee with
Indian news agencies and these agreements have given meaning to these terms.
Considering the extent and restriction of use of information, due to ownership
of copyright, as stated in the agreement without doubt refers that copyright
in literary and artistic work only that has been licensed. Therefore, as far
is characterization of payment for the purpose of taxation is concerned, there
is no need to look for meaning of the term copyright. Agreement states that
AFP is the copyright owner of the information and the agreement constitutes a
license to use the information. The information (news item/photos) is literary
and artistic work.
(B) The Ld. DR submits that though the meaning of the terms copyright,
literary and artistic is not given in the DTAA or Income Tax Act, however, for
the purpose of searching for meaning of the terms a priority to another Indian
law need to be given in place of any normal meaning or meaning under the law
of foreign countries. These words have been defined in the Copyright Act 1957
and meaning under this law will prevail over normal meaning. The ITAT in the
Case of Gracemac Corporation (supra) had held that a reference to Indian
Copyright Act 1957, has to be made for the limited purpose of finding out the
meaning of the word "copyright" and P a g e | 26 that too for the reason that
the term 'copyright' is not defined in the Income Tax Act or the DTAA
(paragraph 113, Gracemac Order). In that case, the ITAT after considering the
provisions of Article 14 of the Copyright Act held that even grant of one
right in respect of a copyright or work would amount to transfer or use of
copyright. Referring to Section 30 of the Copyright Act, the Hon'ble court
held that an interest in the right can be granted by license in writing signed
by the owner of the copyright or by his duly authorized agent. The provisions
of Copyright Act can be referred for limited purposes of definition of term
"copyright" (paragraphs 86 to 88, Gracemac Order).
(C) Further, literary work is also defined in the Bern Convention for the
Protection of Literary and Artistic Work. (Refer pages 23 to 51 of the
revenue's PB). While, Article 2 of the Bern Convention provides an inclusive
definition to the expression "Literary and artistic work".
(E.4) The assessee in its complaint against Google has stated that it has
registered its copyrights (paragraph 16 on pages 3, paragraph 19 on pages 4,
and paragraph 49 on page 12)in the USA. Section 101 of title 17 of the United
States Code is available on pages 76 to 82 of the revenue's Paper Book.
Literary work, is de fined as: "Literary works" are work, other than audio-
visual work, expressed in words, numbers, or verbal or numerical symbols or
indicia, regardless of the nature of material objects, such as books,
periodicals, manuscripts, phone records, tapes, disks, or cards, in which they
are embodied. The news items/ news stories of the assessee are expressed in
words. The assessee has itself registered copyright in its works in the USA
and must have been registered as literary works. Its complaint against Star
mentions its work is literary work (refer page 20 of the revenue's PB).
Similarly, photographs are artistic work is and also subject to copyright
protection. In this regard the Revenue referred to a case wherein AFP was
asked to pay USD 1.22 million for infringing the copyright over the
photographs of Photojournalist Daniel Morel. Photographs captured the
devastation after the 2010 earthquake that struck Haiti. AFP had lifted
photographs from the internet and P a g e | 27 transmitted the images to large
network of subscribers, which included news organization around the world.
Copy of this news item was filed.
(D) Agreements of the assessee mention that it is the copyright owner of all
information. If its contentions that the information is not literary work are
correct then the burden of proving that whatever is stated in the agreement is
false or otherwise prove with documentary evidence that the information is not
of the nature of literary, artistic or scientific work. If it is true that its
information does not enjoy copyright protection then it would require
explaining under what law it registered its copyrights in the USA. Further, if
its work is not protected by Copyright Law then it needs to make a statement
with documentary evidence in this regard and the Indian subscribers are free
to use its information without any agreements and restrictions.
(E) Klaus Vogel on Double Taxation Convention (Third Edition) on the issue of
the scope of copyrights of literary, artistic and scientific work notes that,
copyrights include those under statutory provisions or common law. The wide
concept of copyright royalties within the meaning of Art 1 of the multilateral
convention and proposed by UNESCO and WIPO, should your commentators think,
also apply to the OECD Model Convention. That article mentions payment for the
use of, or the right to use, copyright of a literary, artistic, or scientific
work (in accordance with the definition contained in the international
copyright convention), including such payments made in respect of legal or
compulsory license.
(F) Payment is also royalty under clause (iv) of explanation 2 to Section 9(1)
(vi) of the Act and Article 13 of tax treaty: Without prejudice to the claim
of the revenue that income constitute copyright royalty, the consideration is
also royalty as the same is for imparting of information concerning commercial
experience. The information in the form of news stories and photographs is
intangible asset as admitted by the assessee. The information is new and
undivulged. The consideration is received for the use of or right to use the
information concerning commercial experience.
P a g e | 28
31\. The assessment order contain proper analysis of the available facts and
the AO came to a correct decision of taxing the payments received by the
assessee as royalty both under the provisions of the Act and DTAA. The Ld. CIT
(A) has confirmed the order. The Revenue Department strongly supports these
orders.
32\. We have heard both the parties at considerable length and gone through
case records and relevant case-laws cited by them. We are not reiterating the
complete set of facts at this stage for the sake of brevity. The issue hotly
debated by the parties before us is whether news reports and photographs could
be subject matter of copyright in terms of Section 13 of the Copyright Act,
1957 and whether the consideration received by the assessee under the
distribution agreements qualify as „royalties‟ in terms of Article 13 of Indo-
French DTAA and also Section 9(1)(iv) of the Income Tax Act, 1961. The
relevant portion of Art 13 is reproduced below:
> "Article 13: Royalties and fees for technical services and payments for the
> use of equipment
> 1\. Royalties, fees for technical services and payments for the use of
> equipment arising in a Contracting State and paid to a resident of the other
> Contracting State may be taxed in that other contracting state.
> 2\. However, such royalties, fees and payments may also be taxed in the
> contracting State in which they arise and according to the laws of that
> Contracting State, in which they arise and according to the laws of that
> contracting State, but if the recipient is the beneficial owner of these
> categories of income, the tax so charged shall not exceed 10 per cent of the
> gross amount of such royalties, fees and payments.] [With effect from
> 1-4-1997)
> 3\. However, such royalties, fees and payments may also be taxed in the
> contracting State in which they arise and according to the laws of that
> Contracting State, the recipient is the beneficial owner of these categories
> of income, the tax so charged shall not exceed:
> (a) in the case of royalties and fees 20 per cent of tile gross amount of
> such royalties or fees: and
> (b) in the CIl5t of payments referred to in paragraph 5 of this Article, 10
> per cent of the gross amount of such payments. (Effective between 1-4- 1995
> and 31.3.1997)
> 4\. The term "royalties" as used in this article-means payments of any kind
> received as a consideration for the use of, or the right to use, any
> copyright of literary, artistic or scientific work including cinematograph
> films, or films or tapes used for radio or television broadcasting, any
> patent, trade mark, design or model, plan, secret formula or process, or for
> information concerning industrial, commercial or scientific experience.
> P a g e | 29
> 6\. The provisions of paragraph 1 and 2 shall not apply-if the beneficial
> owner of the royalties, fees for technical services or the payments for the
> use of equipment being a resident of a Contracting State, carries on
> business in the other Contracting State in which the royalties, fees for the
> technical services or the payments for the use of equipment arises, through
> permanent establishment situated therein, or performs in that other
> Contracting State independent personal services from a fixed base situated
> therein, and the royalties, fees for technical services or the payments for
> the use of equipment are effectively connected with such permanent
> establishment or fixed base. In such case the provisions of Article 7 or
> Article15, as the case may be, shall apply.
> 7\. Royalties, fees for technical services or payment for the use of
> equipment shall be deemed to arise in a Contracting State when the payer is
> that Contracting State itself, a political sub-division, a local authority
> or a resident of that Contracting State. Where however, the person paying
> the royalties, fees for technical services or the payments for the use of
> equipment, whether he is a resident of a Contracting State or not, has in a
> Contracting State a permanent establishment or a fixed base in connection
> with which the contract under which the royalties, fees for technical
> services or the payments for the use of equipment are paid was concluded,
> and such royalties, fees for technical services or payments for the use of
> equipment are borne by such permanent establishment or fixed base, then such
> royalties."
33\. On a perusal of Article 13 extracted above, it could be seen that, the
word „royalties‟ is being defined to include payments received for the use of,
or the right to use, any copyright of literary, artistic or scientific work
etc. It is evident from a reading of the said Article 13 that, „royalties‟
covers within its fold payments pertaining to copyright of literary, artistic
work etc. and since, the above terms i.e. copyright of literary, artistic work
etc. has neither been defined or illustrated under Income-tax Act nor under
present Double Taxation Avoidance Agreement between India and France, we need
to place reliance from relevant provisions of Indian Copyright Act, 1957 in
order to understand the true meaning and context for usage of the expression
copyright of literary, artistic work etc. In this regard we seek support from
the case of Gracemac Corporation (supra) wherein it has been observed by the
ITAT that, in absence of meaning of „copyright‟ under Income-tax Act or Double
Taxation Avoidance Agreement reliance needs to be placed upon the Indian
Copyright Act, 1957 for the limited purpose of finding out the true meaning
and context for usage of expression „copyright‟. Moreover, we find that the
jurisdictional High Court in the case of Super Cassettes Industries Limited v.
Mr. Chintamani Rao and Ors., 2012(49)PTC1(Del) had held that, Copyright is a
statutory right, and no person is P a g e | 30 entitled to claim copyright or
any similar right in any work, otherwise than in terms of Section 16 of the
Copyright Act, 1957. Hence, whatever rights are claimed by the parties, must
spring from the Act and there are no equitable rights which either party can
claim under the law of copyright. Therefore, in light of the above
observations, the assessee‟s submission that, the meaning in respect to the
words „copyright of literary, artistic work‟ should be given the ordinary
literal meaning instead of lending it from the Copyright Act cannot be
accepted and we need to look into Copyright Act for the limited purpose of
finding out the true meaning and context of the words „copyright of literary,
artistic work‟.
34\. In the present case, the stand adopted by the assessee has been that news
reports and photographs distributed by it is in the nature of reporting mere
facts or current news which at best could qualify as works having literary
quality in its generic or dictionary meaning but not the legal connotation as
is rendered for „original literary work‟ having any copyrightable value in
terms of Copyright Act 1957\. In this regard, upon a reading of Section
13(1)(a) of the Copyright Act 1957 it is evident to note that, any acquisition
of copyright for any kind of expression of an event or factual scenario is an
automatic process and does not require any rigours of formality for
registration or even claim by the author of such work. In terms of our
discussion in the earlier paras, since the limited purpose of import of
relevant clauses of Copyright Act 1957 into the instant case is clear, the
point which required due attention is that in order to qualify as „Original
literary work‟ in which copyright subsists such works need to satisfy the test
of de minimis. The Principle of de minimis is generally used to courts to
determine infringement or Copyright violation disputes. To put it simply, the
expression de minimis means that law will not resolve petty or unimportant
disputes.
35\. The jurisdictional High Court in the case of India TV Independent News
Service Pvt. Ltd. & Ors V Yashraj Films reported in 192 (2012) DLT 502 has
observed that „de minimis‟ could be translated as (i) The law does not concern
itself with trifles (ii) the law does not regard trifles and (iii) the law
cares not for small things. Further, the world trifle is being understood by
the Courts as P a g e | 31 unimportant or unsufficient. In view of the above
guidelines, it requires to be ascertained whether in the instant case the news
stories/ current news distributed by the assessee satisfy the de minimis rule.
36\. „Copy-right‟ is referred to (in Salmond's jurisprudence, 11th edition, p.
462) as an immaterial form of property recognised by law, being the product of
human skill and labour or of a man's brains. In all the English text books and
which it is unnecessary to refer at length, copyright has been regarded as
incorporeal movable property and that view has been adopted in our country as
well. The aforesaid position has been explained in the case of Savitri Devi v.
Dwaraka Prasad, AIR1939All305 .
37\. In the case of R.C. Cooper v. Union of India ,1970 3 SCR 530, an eleven-
Judge Bench at page 67 of the judgment it has been observed that: -
> "By Entry 42 in the Concurrent List power was conferred upon the Parliament
> and the State Legislatures to legislate with respect to 'Principles on which
> compensation for property acquired or requisitioned for purpose of the Union
> or for any other public purpose is to be determined and the form in which
> such compensation is to be given'. Power to legislate for acquisition of
> property is expendable only under Entry 42 of List III, and not as an
> incident of the power to legislate in respect of a specific head of
> legislation in any of the three lists. Under that Entry property can be
> compulsorily acquired. In its normal connotation property means the 'highest
> right a man can to anything being that right which one has to lands or
> tenements, goods or chattels which does not depend on another's courtesy ;
> it includes ownership, estates and interests in corporeal things, and also
> rights such as trade-marks copyrights, patents and even rights in person
> capable of transfer . or transmission, such as debts ; and signifies a
> beneficial right to or a thing considered as having a money value especially
> with reference to transfer or succession, and to their capacity of being
> injured."
38\. It has been observed by the Hon‟ble Privy Council in the case of AIR 1924
PC 75 (MacMillan & Co. vs. K&J. Cooper that, copyright is the product of the
labour, skill and capital of one man which must not be appropriated by
another, not the elements, the raw material, if one may use the expression,
upon which the labour and skill and capital of the first have been expended.
To secure copyright for this product it is necessary that labour skill and
capital expended should be sufficient to impart to the product some quality or
character which the raw material did not possess, and which differentiates the
product from the raw material.
P a g e | 32
39\. In Halsbury's Laws of England by Lord Hailsham Fourth Edition the
following observations are made:
> "Only original works are protected under Part I of the Copyright Act 1956,
> but it is not requisite that the work should be the expression of original
> or inventive thought, for Copyright Acts are not concerned with the
> originality of ideas, but with the expression of thought, and, in the case
> of a literary work, with the expression of thought in print or writing....
> There is copyright in original dramatic works and adaptations thereof, and
> such copyright subsists not only in the actual words of the work but in the
> dramatic incidents created, so that if these are taken there may be an
> infringement although no words are actually copies. There cannot be
> copyright in mere science effects or stage situations which are not reduced
> into some permanent form."
40\. Similarly, it was pointed out by Copinger in his book on Copyright 11th
Edition that what is protected is not the original thought but expression of
thought in a concrete form. In this connection, the author makes the following
observations based on the case law:
> "What is protected is not original thought or information, but the original
> expression of thought or information in some concrete form. Consequently, it
> is only an infringement if the defendant has made an unlawful use of the
> form in which the thought or information is expressed. The defendant must to
> be liable, have made a substantial use of this form; he is not liable if he
> has taken from the work the essential, ideas however original, and expressed
> the idea in his own form, or used the idea for his own purposes."
41\. In Article 418 Copinger states thus:-
> "In many cases the alleged infringement does not consist of an exact, or
> verbatim copy, of the whole, or any part, of the earlier work, but merely
> resembles it in a greater or lesser degree."
42\. There can be no copyright in an idea, subject matter, themes, plots or
historical or legendary facts while, copyright would subsist on the form,
manner, arrangement and expression of the idea by the author of a copyright
work.
43\. The position has been put beyond any doubt or debate by the most recent
decision of the Supreme Court of India in Eastern Book Company v D.S Modak
[(2008) 1 SCC 1]. After exhaustive review of case law, the apex court held
that the „test of originality is one that should consist of skill, labour and
judgment coupled with some intellectual effort or in the words of Feist "a
modicum of creativity ".
P a g e | 33
44\. In terms of the emerging principles from the above discussion, we note
that it is a settled legal proposition that in order to determine a
copyrightable works or original literary, dramatic, musical and artistic works
etc. (as in the instant case) the key test to be adopted is that such works
should have a „modicum of creativity‟ involving considerable skill, labour,
capital as held in MacMillan & Co. V. K&J. Cooper (supra).
45\. In the above light, it is relevant to go into key clauses of the
distribution agreements entered into by the assessee:
> 1.Agreement with PTI
> 5\. Exclusively a. AFP undertakes that during the term of this Agreement,
> neither itself nor through any agent or other person/entity lawfully acting
> for it will directly or indirectly supply the Information to any other news
> agency in India in respect of the sale and redistribution rights granted to
> PTI as limited and set forth in Schedule B 3.a. b. AFP undertakes not to
> sell directly or indirectly any Information outside India to any person
> knowing or having reason to believe that such Information would be resold,
> either directly or indirectly, to any news agency in India, other than PTI.
> If contravention is brought to the notice of AFP, AFP shall immediately stop
> providing information to competing entity other than PTI for Indian
> Territory
> 6\. Scope of the agreement PTI acknowledges that AFP is the owner of all
> Information provided to it, and that PTI under this agreement is authorised
> to use the information only for the term of this Agreement. AII rights with
> respect to the Information, not, explicitly granted to PTI are reserved to
> AFP. Continued use of the information after termination or expiration of
> this Agreement is forbidden.
> 8\. Distribution Restrictions AFP has reserved the exclusive right to
> determine who receives its information and to restrict the retransmission,
> distribution or method of distribution of its information. These
> restrictions are set forth in Schedule B.
> Schedule B Licensed Uses of the information
> 1\. Only the specific uses enumerated in this Schedule are granted. This
> license shall be strictly construed. It is understood that any use that
> exceeds the license granted herein shall violate AFP rights.
> 2\. A licence for the purpose specified in Schedule B 3 only allowing PTI to
> distribute the AFP Information described in Schedule A 1.
> 3.a. PTI may distribute as part of its services in English and Hindi
> (Bhasha) for resale within the Republic of India any part of the Information
> (as defined above) to only the following:
> P a g e | 34  PRINT Newspapers and News Magazines; and  Radio & . TV
> broadcasters.
Such rights of sale-and distribution shall exclude the following:  The
INTERNET or any Web site.
 Any storage device including but not limited to CD ROMS, archival systems or
databases;
 Any online publication service.
 Advertising, promotional or PR companies.
 Publishers of books and periodicals.
 Telecommunications company for distribution via messaging services including
but not limited to the following formats: text, html, XML, WML in any WAP,
MMS, I-MODE or like services.
 Distributors, aggregators and other professional intermediaries.  Any other
use not specifically endorsed in this Agreement.
3.b Print Newspapers and News Magazines, Radio & TV Broadcasters may subscribe
through PTI to the full AFP news service in English on the terms specified in
Schedule D1.b
3.c PTI shall endeavor to promote, and AFP shall give its full support to sell
the full wire described in Schedule A 1. to print newspapers, news magazines
and radio and TV broadcasters.
9\. Archiving PTI or PTI's customer may archive only that subset of AFP
Information that has appeared in the PTI's or PTI's customer publication. Such
archives may be used by PTI or PTI's customer for internal, consultation
purposes only for the duration of this Agreement. If PTI wishes to use the
archives which comprise AFP information for commercial purposes, AFP shall
charge a fee. AFP Information may not be posted, copied or included in any
product of any kind except for those set forth in schedule B3.
Add Agreement with HT Media Ltd.
Clause 5 Copyright Subscriber acknowledges that AFP is the copyright owner of
all Information provided to it, and that this Agreement constitutes a license
to use the Information only for the term of this Agreement Subscriber further
acknowledges that noting in the Agreement shall constitute a sale or other
transfer of title or any rights from AFP to Subscriber for any of the
Information. All rights with respect to the Information not explicitly granted
to Subscriber are reserved to AFP. Any use of the information provided by AFP
not specifically granted to Subscriber hereunder shall be deemed, in addition
to a breach of contract, a copyright infringement. Continued use of the
Information after termination or expiration of this Agreement shall be deemed
a copyright infringement in addition to a breach of contract, and AFP shall be
entitled to avail itself to the full remedies at law provided for both
copyright infringement and breach of contract without limitation.
Schedule B - Clause 8
8\. Credit a. In any display or republication or redistribution of any of the
Information received by Subscriber from AFP, Subscriber shall ensure that
AFP‟s copyright notice or credit line "(AFP)" shall appear on AFP‟s P a g e |
35 Information. Copyright notice shall read as follows: "(c) AFP 2004 "or in
the alternative, "Copyright AFP, 2004." The credit line for photos shall read
"AFP" or "AFP Photo" and the name of the photographer except as otherwise
indicated by AFP. AFP shall notify Subscriber which method of credit
acknowledgement is to be used.
b. In the event of publication AFP material in electronic form, the AFP credit
line and copyright notice must appear with each story. The copyright notice
shall be hypertext link to the AFP end-user language as set forth in Schedule
E. Additionally, where headlines link to AFP stories, an AFP credit line or
logo must appear in conjunction with the headline. Schedule E- Clause 3
3\. Subscriber will make the following language (or language acceptable to
both parties) a part of its Subscriber/ End-User Agreement and will make it
available to subscriber s and end-users of its web site by effecting a
hypertext link from each web page to a page displaying such language.
Copyright AFP or Agence France-Presse,2004/2005) AFP text, photos, graphics
and logos shall not be reproduced , published, broadcast, rewritten for
broadcast or publication or redistributed directly or indirectly in any
medium. AFP shall not be held liable for any delays, inaccuracies, errors or
omissions in any AFP content, or for any actions taken in consequence.
Add Agreement with PTI Clause 5
5\. Exclusively a. AFP undertakes that during the term of this Agreement,
neither itself nor through any agent or other person/ entity lawfully acting
for it will directly or indirectly supply the information to any other news
agency in India in respect of the sale and redistribution rights granted to
PTI as limited and set forth in Schedule B.3.a b. AFP undertakes not to sett
directly or indirectly any information outside India to any person knowing or
having reason to believe that such information would be resold, either
directly or indirectly, to any news agency in India, other than PTI. If
contravention is brought to the notice of AFP, AFP shall immediately stop
providing information to competing entity other than PTI for Indian Territory.
Clause 16 Warranty a. AFP hereby warrants and presents with respect to its
information that it is the sole owner or has the right to license the
information provided to PTI under this Agreement. Normal industry practice
requires AFP to exercise appropriate journalistic efforts, but the parties
acknowledge that in normal industry practice, errors occur, and AFP makes no
guarantees as to the sequence, completeness, absence of errors in its
information, but undertakes to correct any inaccuracies or errors which may
occur when brought to its notice.
b. PTI warrants it has the rights to enter this Agreement and by entering this
Agreement or carrying out the term of this Agreement, it will not cause AFP to
be liable to any individual or entity for any reason whatsoever.
P a g e | 36 c. No warranty other than the representations and warranties set
forth in this section and above are made. These constitute the only warranties
made by the parties with respect hereto and are in lieu of all other
warranties, expressed, implied or statutory, including implied warranties or
merchantability and fitness for particular purpose.
Add Agreement with IANS Schedule C (Clause 5, Clause 6)
5\. This license is non-exclusive
6\. AFP‟s Information is provided to IANS as direct news coy from its real-
time newswires. As such, the information within the normal context of a
newswire will comprise contemporaneous news coverage that by the nature of
developing events may contain errors including sequence, completeness,
accuracy and/ or reliability. In providing the Information to IANS for
publishing. AFP expects that the Information may require editorial
intervention by the IANS on a timely basis when notified by AFP, and that IAMS
will be solely responsible for the technical implementation and presentation
of the Information both on an automated or editorial basis.
Clause 9
9\. Credit In any display or republication or redistribution of any of the
Information received by IANS from AFP, IANS shall ensure that AFP‟s copyright
notice or credit line "(AFP)" shall appear on AFP‟s Information. Copyright
notice shall read as follows: (C) AFP 2005/6 "or in the alternative,
"Copyright AFP. 2005/6". The credit line for photos shall read "AFP" or "AFP
Photo" and the name of the photographer except as otherwise indicated by AFP.
AFP shall notify IANS which method of credit acknowledgement is to be used.
Clause 17 Copyright IANS acknowledges that AFP is the copyright owner of all
Information provided to it and that this Agreement constitutes a license to
use the Information only for the term of this Agreement. IANS further
acknowledges that noting the agreement shall constitute a sale or other
transfer of title or any rights from AFP to IANS for any of the Information.
All rights with respect to the Information provided by AFP not specifically
granted to IANs hereunder shall be deemed, in addition to a breach of
contract, a copyright infringement. Continued use of the Information after
termination or expiration of this Agreement shall be deemed a copyright
infringement in addition to a breach of contract and AFP shall be entitled to
avail itself to the full remedies at law provided for both copyright
infringement and breach of contract without limitation.
Clause 19 Modification
a) In this regard AFP‟s information provided to IANS, IANS will not modify,
translate, and/ or edit the information in any manner that distorts the
meaning or causes otherwise non-defamatory, non-infringing Information to
defame or infringe the intellectual property rights of any person, or
otherwise violate any person‟s personal proprietary or privacy rights.
P a g e | 37
b) In regard to photographs, IANS will limit its modification of any
photographs to lightening, darkening or copping. However, none of the above
edits may distort the content of the photographs.
46\. On a reading of relevant clauses of various distribution agreements
extracted above, we observe that AFP exercises a great degree of control and
strictly regulates its news-content supplied by it to Indian news agencies and
most of its information is proprietary-in-nature and copyrighted inasmuch as
access to archived data, distribution rights, commercial rights, credit to AFP
alongwith copyright symbol „AFP©‟ or without copyright symbol „AFP‟ (as may be
determined by AFP in terms of its internal policy), which can be used except
as per terms of AFP.
47\. Further, we note that in the instant case the news that is distributed by
the assessee to various news agencies are obtained from different sources
including AFP‟s own personnel, domestic as well as international news
correspondents, and other agencies etc. who have a good amount of experience
in news reporting. Such news stories as obtained by AFP is further evaluated
and processed by its editorial team which comprises of a network of senior
journalists who are the best journalistic minds in news business possessing
specialized skills and are capable of coming out with news-stories having a
distinct feature and innate quality. It is for this very distinct feature and
innate quality that AFP news is preferred and is revered to as one of the most
reliable news agencies in the world since its year of inception i.e. 1835.
48\. On a perusal of clause of the agreement we understand that AFP invests
substantial amount of its capital in its personnel‟s, correspondent, editors‟
etc. and create its own unique quality in news reporting. This understanding
could be explicated on the premise of two main points i.e. (a) the news story
supplied by it cannot be altered by the Indian news agencies or other
distributors and any change in the news reports can only be carried out by AFP
itself; (b) the volume of news-stories supplied to each individual user is
strictly regulated inasmuch as news-stories above a certain figure per day
would cost more and depends upon the package obtained by a user. Also, news-
reporting for special events such as Commonwealth Games, Olympics are carried
out for special rates P a g e | 38 instead of ordinary/ regular rates since
AFP has to incur costs by way of placing special correspondent i.e. skilled
human capital to cover news reporting and mobilization costs for various
resources/ creation of necessary infrastructure in order to capture
photographs during such mega events. In view of the discussion above, we
observe that the instant case satisfies the elements of labour, skill and
capital as enunciated in the case of AIR 1924 PC 75 (MacMillan & Co. vs. K&J.
Cooper (supra).
49\. Apropos the question of news and photographs being the subject matter of
copyright, we note that the entire gamut of news services provided by the
assessee could be split into three categories for the sake of brevity. The
said categories as well as our comments are outlined below:
> (a) First Category „News‟: News per se or „hot news‟ is not copyrightable.
> This position has not been controverted by either of the parties before us.
> The Ld. DR has argued before us that, „it rained today morning‟ is a current
> news and one cannot claim copyright over this by claiming that it reported
> the event first therefore, none else can report this fact.
> In addition to the above, the Ld. AR submits before us that reporting of
> news or „hot news‟ being in the nature of a commercial purpose could not be
> a disabling factor. We note that, the assessee in his own words has taken a
> diametrically opposite stand in its case against Google Inc. before District
> Court, Colombia wherein it has argued that, story headlines and leads are
> qualitatively the most important aspects of a story and are painstakingly
> created.
50\. In light of the above discussion, apropos „news‟ per se we are of the
considered view that the same constitutes reporting of mere facts current
events etc and thus cannot be copyrighted as it does not fulfil the
requirements enlisted under Section 13(1)(a) of the Indian copyright Act 1957.
Further, also taking notice of the fact that the parties before us have
adopted the same stand on copyrightablity of news per se, we have no
hesitation in holding that news per se is not copyrightable.
P a g e | 39
51\. Further it would be prudent for us to take notice regarding a serious
debate going on in America between News Aggregations and News Agencies on the
doctrine of „not news‟ which has been brought to our attention by the ld AR
however we do not wish to express any views with regard to its applicability
leave it open.
(b) Second Category-News story including archived news: Since it is
established above that news per se does cannot be copyrighted it could be
stated that, "There is no copyright over news. However, there is copyright
over the way in which a news item is reported."
In continuation to the example put forth by the ld DR in the first category
above, if a news item or a story is published by anyone, indicating the
background of ongoing heat wave, records of temperature, and historical
records of rain in the first week of June and also respite from power shortage
or progress of monsoon, then this news item/ story cannot be reproduced or
used by anyone without proper authorization.
52\. Further, so as to appreciate the distinction between mere reporting of
facts from news stories which constitutes a form of expression, it would be
worthwhile to analyse the recent reporting about, Malaysia Airlines Flight 370
flight which was on a scheduled international passenger flight from Kuala
Lumpur to Beijing that disappeared on 8 March 2014 after losing contact with
air traffic control less than an hour after takeoff. In one of the newspapers
i.e. „Strait Times‟ being one of the most widely read newspapers in Singapore,
the catchline read as „Malaysia‟s MH 370 report shows delayed response, offers
no new clues‟ while, another newspaper „The New York Times‟ reported this
incident with the catchline „Questions Over Absence of Cellphone Calls From
Missing Flight‟s Passengers‟. It is to be pointed out that, the piece reported
by the first newspaper consisted of news inputs as well as photographs from
AFP while, the latter consisted of news inputs from „New York Times News
Service‟.
53\. From a reading of the above news-item, it is evident that, even though
the factum or news remains to be imbedded in a fact its reporting or form an
expression makes it unique. Having discussed the above illustration as well as
P a g e | 40 upon reading of relevant clauses from the subscription
agreements, we observe that news articles/news story which are distributed by
various news agencies around the world including the assessee possess literary
quality and does not qualify as news per and should rightfully be treated as
derivative of news in the form of a news item/ headline/ story line including
photographs (independently in a news context or otherwise.)
54\. Further taking cue from the observation by the jurisdictional High court
in the case of India TV Independent News Service Pvt Ltd & Ors V Yashraj Films
reported in 192(2012) DLT 502, we note that a news item or news story as
distributed by the assessee to Indian News agencies would, if looked in
contrast to the first category discussed above is greater in content as well
as original literary expression and even posses independent commercial value
vi-a-vis subscription agreements and hence, most definitely does not
constitute trifle details or news as covered under the first category.
55\. In the result, we observe that such news-reports as well as archived data
being in the nature of „original literary works‟ does not fall foul to the
doctrine of de minimi and meet at statutory requirements for copyright
outlines under Section 13(1)(a) of the Indian Copyright Act, 1957. Hence, in
light of foregoging facts and circumstances involved in the instant case it
could be concluded that copyright subsists in such news item/ news story under
consideration.
(c) Third Category-Photographs: The Ld. DR has brought to our notice that, AFP
and Getty Images were ordered to pay compensation to freelance photojournalist
Daniel Morel for using his images posted on Twitter related to the 2010 Haiti
earthquake without his permission, in violation of copyright and Twitter's
terms of service. In light of the above factual context, it could be noted
that where photographs taken by a professional photographer of outstanding
stature has unique aesthetic merit eloquently depicting human suffering, such
a photograph has intrinsic value. Similarly, in the present case the
photographs as distributed by the assessee is taken by a professional
photographer of high levels of competence thus, on a reading of the
subscription agreement, it P a g e | 41 emerges that the images or photographs
as uploaded in the assesse‟s website cannot be altered with except minor
fading effect and resizing. The credit line for assessee‟s photographs is
required to display a specific credit line i.e. AFP.
56\. In the light, taking cue from Section 2(c)(i) of the Indian Copyright
Act, 1957 categorically includes photographs as artistic work. In view of the
totality of facts in the instant case as well as terms of usage of assessee‟s
photos for news items or non-news items, it cannot be denied that it has an
intrinsic value of its own and when used for „news items‟ it helps assist in
conveying the message in the news story.
57\. In the result, we observe that on a reading of Section 2(C)(i) of the
Indian Copyright Act 1957 which deems „photographs‟ as „artistic works‟
keeping in view of the terms of use of such photographs vis-a-vis subscription
agreement as discussed above as well as separate commercial value being
ascribed to such photographs the same very clearly fits into the sweep of
section 13(1)(a) of the Indian Copyright Act 1957 hence it could be concluded
that copyright subsists in such photographs/ image under consideration.
58\. Having discussed the factual position as well as our comments above,
since the assessee‟s in its own words has described its services as ala -carte
we observe that does not exist any artificial split or otherwise for news
items which under the first category from those falling under second or third
category as discussed in detail in earlier paras. It has neither been argued
before us by the assessee regarding any artificial split or otherwise for
first category items in order to cull out values pertaining to news per se. In
absence of any split available from the records in this case and any argument
for remand we do not remand back this case to the file of the AO.
59\. Since we have already concluded in our earlier discussion that first
category items does not posses the „minimum modicum of creativity while,
keeping in mind that the assessee in the instant case is providing a gamut of
service covering all three categories without any split, all of the three
categories in the case of the assessee is interlinked hence, should be
construed as P a g e | 42 composite service possessing the „modicum of
creativity. under point (b) and
(c) that, copyright subsists in the news reports and photographs supplied by
the assessee, we hold that the same rightfully posess the minimum „modicum of
creativity‟.
60\. We further observe that the Ld. AR has vociferously argued before us
that, reporting of „current events‟ is an exception to copyright infringement
and draws support from the Berne Convention as well as the various models of
Copyright laws prevailing in common law countries like UK as well as USA. In
this regard, we note that Section 52 of the Copyright Act stipulates „Certain
acts not to be infringement of copyright‟. Further, clause b of Section 52
stipulates as under:
> (b) a fair dealing with a literary, dramatic, musical or artistic work for
> the purpose of reporting current events-
> (i) in a newspaper, magazine or similar periodical, or
> (ii) by [broadcast] or in a cinematograph film or by means of photographs.
61\. From a reading of the above outlined clauses, it could be noted that the
above clause is being built into the Copyright scheme in order to protects
rights of user of copyrigtable work. In other words, fair dealing is the
rights of user and not of an author or owner of copyright. The whole premise
of the assessee‟s argument in the present context by drawing the contours of
copyrightability over its news-reports or current events in contradistinction
to nature of rights possessed by its user‟s i.e. Indian News Agencies is
misplaced.
62\. The assessee has in the instant case by way of grant of licence to its
users obtained a commercial value for distribution of its news which cannot
come into the public domain except by virtue of a license agreement.
Therefore, the question of „fair dealing‟ by the user of information covering
bundle of first, second as well as third category of information does not come
into play as it is strictly governed by the terms of the subscription
agreement and comes for a commercial value hence, we feel that the reference
to „fair dealing‟ in terms of Section 52(1)(b) is misplaced to this extent.
P a g e | 43
63\. We also observe that, we are not in the instant case before us here to
determine whether there has been a copyright infringement or not by any of the
consumers of the assessee in India, since Section 52 of the Copyright Act only
entitles a defence to consumers from the prosecution of the offense of
copyright infringement; and in this case, the „information‟ /‟news‟ under
consideration in the instant case infringement if any doesn‟t arise, since
news content transmitted by AFP/ assesse is not in the public domain and is
admittedly accessible only by way of a license agreement in situation wherein
such information/ news transmitted by assessee to Indian news agency arises
only if the same is published without assesse‟s prior permission is not for
consideration before us and so is not relevant to solve the issue before us.
64\. Thus, in view of the totality of facts and circumstances of the instant
case, we are inclined to agree with the view as adopted by the ld CIT(A). As a
result, this issue is answered in the negative and these grounds of appeal
Nos. 1 to 4 as filed by the assessee is dismissed with no order as to costs.
65\. Ground No.5 is against the action of the AO in charging interest u/s
234Bof the Act. The assessee submits that section 195 places an obligation on
the payer to deduct tax at source at the rates in force from the payments made
and the department can always take action against the payer for non deduction
of tax at source. However, if the payer makes any default by not deducting tax
at source, it would be the liability of the payer to make good the short fall
and it would not be permissible to levy interest u/s 234B in the case of
payee. Reliance was place on the following cases:-
> 1\. Jacobs Civil Incorporated 330 ITR 578 (Del)
> 2\. Sedco Forex International Drilling Co. Ltd. 264 ITR 320 (Uttaranchal)
> 3\. Halliburton Offshore Services Inc. 140 Taxmann 405
> 4\. NGC Networks Asia LLC 222 CTR 86 (Bombay).
66\. The ld CIT DR on the other hand submitted that the case laws cited by the
assessee are distinguishable on facts as the assessee had denied its liability
to pay tax in India and under those circumstances it cannot be claimed that
the payer should have deducted tax at source. He relied on the decision of the
jurisdictional High Court in the case of DIT-I, International Taxation Vs.
Alcatel P a g e | 44 Lucent USA, Inc. In ITA No. 327/2012, ITA No.330/2012,
ITA 338/2012 & ITA No.339/2012 and others, judgement dated 07.11.2013.
67\. After hearing rival contentions we find that the assessee‟s case is
similar to the facts of the case of M/s Alcatel Lucent USA, Inc (supra). In
this case also the assessee did not admit to any income in its returns. The
contention of the assessee before us is that, no part of its income is taxable
in India.
68\. When the assessee denies its liability to pay tax on an income in
question then the inference would be that the payer did not deduct tax at
source because of its request made to the the payer, not to deduct which is
consistant with its stand that the income is not liable to tax.
69\. The Hon‟ble Delhi High court in the case of Alcatel Lucent USA, Inc held
as follows:-
> "16. In the light of the judgment of this Court in Jacabs (supra), the
> interpretation to be placed on Section 209(1)(d) in juxtaposition with
> Section 195(1) is that which is canvassed before us on behalf of the
> assessee. However, we find merit in the submission of the learned standing
> counsel for the income tax department that on the facts of the present case,
> the aforesaid legal position cannot be applied. As pointed out by him, in
> the case of Jacabs (supra) the assessee filed its return of income admitting
> tax liability on income of `296,83,278/-. On this income it did not pay
> advance tax on the due dates. The assessing officer proceeded to charge
> interest under Section 234B, overruling the assessees objection that tax was
> "deductible" by the National Highway Authority of India for whom the
> assessee was executing the projects. The plea was, however, accepted by the
> CIT (Appeals) and the Income Tax Appellate Tribunal. It was in those facts
> that this Court held that since it was the duty of NHAI to deduct tax under
> Section 195(1) from the payments made to the assessee, and even though no
> tax was actually deducted and paid by the NHAI, the assessee was entitled to
> take credit for the tax which was "deductible" by the NHAI while computing
> its advance tax liability. In the present case, the factual position is
> quite different. Herein the assessee did not admit any income in the
> returns. In the note appended to the return (which we have extracted
> earlier) the assessee denied its liability to be taxed in India on the
> ground that it had no PE in India. The assessee also pointed out that no
> income from the supply of telecom equipment to the Indian dealers arose in
> India since all sales were made from outside India (in the USA). The
> assessing officer did not accept the claim made in the note and proceeded to
> assess the assessee in respect of the income arising in India from the
> supply of the telecom equipment on estimate basis. The assessment was not
> accepted and appeals were filed but in P a g e | 45 the appeals the assessee
> did not press the ground of appeal against the computation of the income,
> but pressed the appeals only against the levy of interest under Section
> 234B. Thus it was at the stage of the CIT (Appeals) that the assessee
> accepted its tax liability in India. It would be incongruous, as pointed out
> on behalf of the revenue, to hold that even though the assessee did not
> admit any tax liability in India while filing the return and even up to the
> stage of first appeal, and correspondingly the payers were also not liable
> to deduct tax under Section 195(1), still it can take credit for the tax
> "deductible", though not deducted, by the Indian payers from the remittance
> made to the assessee. In our opinion this factual position makes a crucial
> difference to the legal position also and, therefore, the benefit of the
> decision of this Court in Jacabs (supra) cannot be extended to the assessee.
> 21\. We are unable to uphold this part of the decision of the Tribunal. It
> must be remembered that in the note appended to the return the assessee was
> quite categorical in denying its liability to be assessed in India. It
> relied on the double taxation avoidance agreement between India and USA and
> pointed out that there was no permanent establishment in India. It further
> stated that the telecom equipments were sold outside India and the payments
> were also received outside India and thus the assessee did not have any
> taxable presence in India so as to be liable for tax on its Indian income.
> If this was the stand of the assessee, it is not impermissible or
> unreasonable to visualise a situation where, the assessee would have
> represented to its Indian telecom dealers not to deduct tax from the
> remittances made to it. On the contrary it would be surprising if the
> assessee did not make any such representation; such a representation would
> only be consistent with the assessee's stand regarding its tax liability in
> India. Moreover, no purpose would have been served by the assessee taking
> such a categorical stand regarding its tax liability in India and at the
> same time suffering tax deduction under Section 195(1). Therefore, in our
> opinion, even though there may not be any positive or direct evidence to
> show that the assessee did make a representation to its Indian telecom
> dealers not to deduct tax from the remittances, such a representation or
> informal communication of the request can be reasonably inferred or
> presumed. The Tribunal ought to have accorded due weightage to the strong
> possibility or probability of such a request having been made by the
> assessee to the Indian payers since otherwise the denial of its tax
> liability on its Indian income would have served little purpose for the
> assessee.
> 23\. The Tribunal, keeping in mind the above observations, underlined by us,
> ought to have drawn the inference that the Indian payers did not deduct the
> tax under Section 195(1) because of the request made by the assessee,
> consistent with its stand that it was not liable to be taxed in India."
70\. Respectfully following the binding decision of the jurisdictional High
Court we dismiss the ground No. 5 of the assessee.
P a g e | 46
71\. In the result the appeal of the assessee for all the above assessment
years are dismissed.
Order pronounced in the open court on 15.09.2014.
                -Sd/-                                                -Sd/-
             (J.S.REDYY)                                         (A. T. VARKEY)
           ACCOUNTANT MEMBER                                   JUDICIAL MEMBER
     Dated:15/09/2014
    A K Keot
    Copy forwarded to
          1. Applicant
          2. Respondent
          3. CIT
          4. CIT (A)
          5. DR:ITAT
                                                                ASSISTANT REGISTRAR
                                                                    ITAT, New Delhi
> consistent with its stand that it was not liable to be taxed in India."
70\. Respectfully following the binding decision of the jurisdictional High
Court we dismiss the ground No. 5 of the assessee.
P a g e | 46
71\. In the result the appeal of the assessee for all the above assessment
years are dismissed.
Order pronounced in the open court on 15.09.2014.
                -Sd/-                                                -Sd/-
             (J.S.REDYY)                                         (A. T. VARKEY)
           ACCOUNTANT MEMBER                                   JUDICIAL MEMBER
     Dated:15/09/2014
    A K Keot
    Copy forwarded to
          1. Applicant
          2. Respondent
          3. CIT
                                 Appellant by : T.N. Chopra, Adv
                                Respondent by : Sanjeev Sharma, CIT DR
                                         ORDER
PER A. T. VARKEY, JUDICIAL MEMBER This appeal by the Assessee is directed
against the order of the Ld. Commissioner of Income Tax (Appeals)-XI, New
Delhi dated 28.12.2010 pertaining to assessment year 2006-07.
2\. The assessee filed abridged grounds of appeal for all the assessment year
which are identical are reproduced as under:-
> "1. That the order of the learned Dispute Resolution Panel-1 (hereinafter
> referred to as DRP-1) is bad in law and on facts.
> 2\. That the learned DRP-1 has erred on facts and in law in confirming the
> addition of Rs.3,12,77,885.72 received by the appellant as Royalty without
> appreciating the fact that the payment has been received under the
> Agreements for sale of information and not for transfer of any copyright.
> 3\. Without prejudice to Ground No.2 above, the learned DRP-1 has grossly
> erred in ignoring the settled position that news reporting is beyond the
> purview of copyright as stipulated in Section 52 of the Copyright Act.
> Page |2
> 4\. Without prejudice to Grounds 2 and 3 above, the learned DRP-1 is not
> correct in law and in facts in holding that news reporting is covered under
> consistent with its stand that it was not liable to be taxed in India."
70\. Respectfully following the binding decision of the jurisdictional High
Court we dismiss the ground No. 5 of the assessee.
P a g e | 46
71\. In the result the appeal of the assessee for all the above assessment
years are dismissed.
Order pronounced in the open court on 15.09.2014.
                -Sd/-                                                -Sd/-
             (J.S.REDYY)                                         (A. T. VARKEY)
           ACCOUNTANT MEMBER                                   JUDICIAL MEMBER
     Dated:15/09/2014
    A K Keot
    Copy forwarded to
          1. Applicant
          2. Respondent
          3. CIT
                                 Appellant by : T.N. Chopra, Adv
                                Respondent by : Sanjeev Sharma, CIT DR
                                         ORDER
PER A. T. VARKEY, JUDICIAL MEMBER This appeal by the Assessee is directed
against the order of the Ld. Commissioner of Income Tax (Appeals)-XI, New
Delhi dated 28.12.2010 pertaining to assessment year 2006-07.
2\. The assessee filed abridged grounds of appeal for all the assessment year
which are identical are reproduced as under:-
> "1. That the order of the learned Dispute Resolution Panel-1 (hereinafter
> referred to as DRP-1) is bad in law and on facts.
> 2\. That the learned DRP-1 has erred on facts and in law in confirming the
> addition of Rs.3,12,77,885.72 received by the appellant as Royalty without
> appreciating the fact that the payment has been received under the
> Agreements for sale of information and not for transfer of any copyright.
> 3\. Without prejudice to Ground No.2 above, the learned DRP-1 has grossly
> erred in ignoring the settled position that news reporting is beyond the
> purview of copyright as stipulated in Section 52 of the Copyright Act.
> Page |2
> 4\. Without prejudice to Grounds 2 and 3 above, the learned DRP-1 is not
> correct in law and in facts in holding that news reporting is covered under
> consistent with its stand that it was not liable to be taxed in India."
70\. Respectfully following the binding decision of the jurisdictional High
Court we dismiss the ground No. 5 of the assessee.
P a g e | 46
71\. In the result the appeal of the assessee for all the above assessment
years are dismissed.
Order pronounced in the open court on 15.09.2014.
                -Sd/-                                                -Sd/-
             (J.S.REDYY)                                         (A. T. VARKEY)
           ACCOUNTANT MEMBER                                   JUDICIAL MEMBER
     Dated:15/09/2014
    A K Keot
    Copy forwarded to
          1. Applicant
          2. Respondent
          3. CIT
                                 Appellant by : T.N. Chopra, Adv
                                Respondent by : Sanjeev Sharma, CIT DR
                                         ORDER
PER A. T. VARKEY, JUDICIAL MEMBER This appeal by the Assessee is directed
against the order of the Ld. Commissioner of Income Tax (Appeals)-XI, New
Delhi dated 28.12.2010 pertaining to assessment year 2006-07.
2\. The assessee filed abridged grounds of appeal for all the assessment year
which are identical are reproduced as under:-
> "1. That the order of the learned Dispute Resolution Panel-1 (hereinafter
> referred to as DRP-1) is bad in law and on facts.
> 2\. That the learned DRP-1 has erred on facts and in law in confirming the
> addition of Rs.3,12,77,885.72 received by the appellant as Royalty without
> appreciating the fact that the payment has been received under the
> Agreements for sale of information and not for transfer of any copyright.
> 3\. Without prejudice to Ground No.2 above, the learned DRP-1 has grossly
> erred in ignoring the settled position that news reporting is beyond the
> purview of copyright as stipulated in Section 52 of the Copyright Act.
> Page |2
> 4\. Without prejudice to Grounds 2 and 3 above, the learned DRP-1 is not
> correct in law and in facts in holding that news reporting is covered under
> section 13 of the Copyright Act.
> 5\. That the learned DRP-1 has erred in law in upholding the action of the
> Assessing Officer in charging interest under section 234B of the Act of
> Rs.36,67,329/- by stating that the charge of interest is consequential even
> though the provisions of section 234B of the Act do not apply as the payer
> is liable to deduct the full tax at source and accordingly the appellant
> (non resident) was not liable to pay advance tax on the said amount."
3\. The principal issue arising in the instant appeal is whether any copyright
subsists in the news reports & photographs distributed/ circulated by the
assessee within India in terms of relevant provisions of Copyright Act, 1957,
and accordingly, such impugned copyright qualify as „royalties‟ within meaning
> consistent with its stand that it was not liable to be taxed in India."
70\. Respectfully following the binding decision of the jurisdictional High
Court we dismiss the ground No. 5 of the assessee.
P a g e | 46
71\. In the result the appeal of the assessee for all the above assessment
years are dismissed.
Order pronounced in the open court on 15.09.2014.
                -Sd/-                                                -Sd/-
             (J.S.REDYY)                                         (A. T. VARKEY)
           ACCOUNTANT MEMBER                                   JUDICIAL MEMBER
     Dated:15/09/2014
    A K Keot
    Copy forwarded to
          1. Applicant
          2. Respondent
          3. CIT
                                 Appellant by : T.N. Chopra, Adv
                                Respondent by : Sanjeev Sharma, CIT DR
                                         ORDER
PER A. T. VARKEY, JUDICIAL MEMBER This appeal by the Assessee is directed
against the order of the Ld. Commissioner of Income Tax (Appeals)-XI, New
Delhi dated 28.12.2010 pertaining to assessment year 2006-07.
2\. The assessee filed abridged grounds of appeal for all the assessment year
which are identical are reproduced as under:-
> "1. That the order of the learned Dispute Resolution Panel-1 (hereinafter
> referred to as DRP-1) is bad in law and on facts.
> 2\. That the learned DRP-1 has erred on facts and in law in confirming the
> addition of Rs.3,12,77,885.72 received by the appellant as Royalty without
> appreciating the fact that the payment has been received under the
> Agreements for sale of information and not for transfer of any copyright.
> 3\. Without prejudice to Ground No.2 above, the learned DRP-1 has grossly
> erred in ignoring the settled position that news reporting is beyond the
> purview of copyright as stipulated in Section 52 of the Copyright Act.
> Page |2
> 4\. Without prejudice to Grounds 2 and 3 above, the learned DRP-1 is not
> correct in law and in facts in holding that news reporting is covered under
> section 13 of the Copyright Act.
> 5\. That the learned DRP-1 has erred in law in upholding the action of the
> Assessing Officer in charging interest under section 234B of the Act of
> Rs.36,67,329/- by stating that the charge of interest is consequential even
> though the provisions of section 234B of the Act do not apply as the payer
> is liable to deduct the full tax at source and accordingly the appellant
> (non resident) was not liable to pay advance tax on the said amount."
3\. The principal issue arising in the instant appeal is whether any copyright
subsists in the news reports & photographs distributed/ circulated by the
assessee within India in terms of relevant provisions of Copyright Act, 1957,
and accordingly, such impugned copyright qualify as „royalties‟ within meaning
> consistent with its stand that it was not liable to be taxed in India."
70\. Respectfully following the binding decision of the jurisdictional High
Court we dismiss the ground No. 5 of the assessee.
P a g e | 46
71\. In the result the appeal of the assessee for all the above assessment
years are dismissed.
Order pronounced in the open court on 15.09.2014.
                -Sd/-                                                -Sd/-
             (J.S.REDYY)                                         (A. T. VARKEY)
           ACCOUNTANT MEMBER                                   JUDICIAL MEMBER
     Dated:15/09/2014
    A K Keot
    Copy forwarded to
          1. Applicant
          2. Respondent
          3. CIT
