Custom, Excise & Service Tax Tribunal
M/S. Huawei Technologies Co. Ltd vs Anti Dumping And Allied Duties on 24
February, 2016
    IN THE CUSTOMS, EXCISE & SERVICE TAX
    APPELLATE TRIBUNAL
    WEST BLOCK NO.2, R.K. PURAM, NEW DELHI  110 066.
    Date of Hearing : 18.01.2016 to 21.01.2016
    Date of Pronouncement : 24.02.2016
    For Approval &Signature :
    Honble Justice G. Raghuram, President
    Hon'ble Mr. S.K. Mohanty, Member(Judicial)
    Honble Mr. R.K. Singh, Member (Technical)
    1.
    Whether Press Reporter may be allowed to see the Order for publication as per Rule 27 of the CESTAT (Procedure) Rules, 1982?
    No
    2.
    Whether it would be released under Rule 27 of the CESTAT (Procedure) Rules, 1982 for publication in any authoritative report or not?
     Yes
    3.
    Whether Lordships wish to see the fair copy of the order?
38\. According to the appellants, the notification is liable to be set aside
on the ground of vagueness and they argued that the expression like for SDH
application only is too vague to be acceptable in a taxing statute or
exemption notification. We are unable to agree with this contention because
expression for SDH application only is quite comprehensible and there is
nothing too esoteric about it. In our view there is nothing so vague or
incomprehensible about expressions like for SDH application only as to make
it impossible or impractical to implement the anti-dumping notification.
39\. The appellants also argued that software downloaded electronically cannot
be subjected to anti-dumping duty due to absence of mechanism to levy and
collect duty as has been held by CESTAT in the case of Oracle India Pvt. Ltd.
& Others Vs. C.C.(Export), New Delhi. (supra). We agree with the contention
and find it pertinent to add that as no duty can be levied and collected on
such downloads (as has been held by CESTAT in the case of Oracle India Pvt.
Ltd.), the appellants can have no grievance on that count.
40\. In view of the analysis above, we do not find any such infirmity in the
    Whether Lordships wish to see the fair copy of the order?
    Seen
    4.
    Whether order is to be circulated to the Department Authorities?
    Yes
    Application Nos.AD/MISC/51252 & 51908/2015]
    Appeal No.AD/13/2012
    [Arising out of Final Findings dated 19.10.2010 and 10.02.2012 issued by Designated Authority]
    M/s. Huawei Technologies Co. Ltd.		Appellant
    Vs.
    Designated Authority	
    Directorate General of 
    Anti Dumping and Allied Duties			Respondent
    Application Nos.AD/STAY/966, 987 & 988/2011
    Appeal Nos.AD/5  7 & 18/2011
    [Arising out of Final Findings dated 19.10.2010 and 10.02.2012 issued by Designated Authority]
    M/s. U.T. Starcom Inc.
    M/s. TATA Teleservices Ltd.
    M/s. Idea Cellular Ltd.
    M/s. Alcatel-Lucent Sahnghai Bell Ltd.		Appellant
    Vs.
    Designated Authority	
    Directorate General of 
    Anti Dumping and Allied Duties			Respondent
    Appearance
    Mr. Balbir Singh,  Sr. Advocate
    Mr. Gopan Jain, Sr. Advocate
    Mr. Sanjiv Goel, Advocate
    Ms. Jaya Bharuka, Advocate
    Ms. Rita Jha, Advocate
    Mr. A Mathews, Advocate		
    Ms. Arpita, Advocate			-	For Huawei Technologies
    Mr. VL Kumaran, Advocate
    Mr. Atul Gupta, Advocate
    Mr. S Seetharaman, Advocate
    Ms. R Sharma, Advocate		-	For Alcatel-Lucent
    Mr. Rohan Shah, Advocate
    Mr. Anay Banhatti, Advocate		-	For Tata Teleservices &
    Mr. Udit Jain, Advocate		 	Idea Cellular
    Mr. Saurabh Kansal, Advocate	-	For U.T. Starcom Inc.
    Mr. Amit Singh, Advocate
    Mr. Ankit Mallik, Advocate		-	For Designated Authority 
    Mr. Amresh Jain, DR			-	For Revenue
    Ms. Reena Khair, Advocate
    Mr. Rajesh Sharma, Advocate	-	For Domestic Industry
    Mr. Jitendra Singh, Advocate
    Mr. Madhav Rao, Advocate		-	For Bharti Airtel
    CORAM:	Honble Justice G. Raghuram, President
    		Hon'ble Mr. S.K. Mohanty, Member(Judicial)
    		Honble Mr. R.K. Singh, Member (Technical)
    Final Order Nos.50853-50857/2016, 	dated 24.02.2016
    Per Mr. R.K. Singh :
     	Appeals are filed against levy of Anti-Dumping Duty on Synchronous Digital Hierarchy System (SDH) vide Notification No.125/2010-Cus, dated 16.12.2010 based on/read with the Designated Authoritys Final Findings with regard thereto.
    Background
in brief:
2\. On 21.04.2009, the Designated Authority in the Ministry of Commerce
initiated investigations against the imports of SDH Transmission Equipment
from China PR and Israel (subject countries). The initiation was made
pursuant to an application filed by M/s. Tejas Network Ltd, (Tejas) which
claimed status as domestic industry. It was alleged in the application that
the SDH product was being dumped from China PR and Israel into India and such
import was causing injury to Tejas. On 07.09.2009, the Designated Authority
issued preliminary findings recommending levy of provisional duty for a period
of six months. M/s. Vuppalamritha Magnetic Components Ltd. (VMCL), challenged
the initiation of investigations, as well as the preliminary findings before
the Andhra Pradesh High Court on the ground that Tejas is not a domestic
producer. The High Court passed an Interim Order dated 21.10.2009 staying the
implementation of the preliminary findings for a period of four weeks. The
said order was challenged by Tejas before the Supreme Court, which vacated the
stay and directed the High Court to expeditiously hear and dispose of the
matter. On 08.12.2009, the recommendations of the Designated Authority were
given effect to and Customs Notification No.132/2009 dated 08.12.2009 was
issued levying provisional Anti-Dumping Duty for a period of six months.
3\. Andhra Pradesh High Court by its order dated 22.01.2010, held that Tejas
is not a domestic industry and assumption of jurisdiction by the Designated
Authority on its application is erroneous and illegal and the notification was
set aside. The order of Andhra Pradesh High Court was assailed by Tejas before
the Supreme Court. By an order dated 19.03.2010, the Supreme Court held that
these matters involve economic consequences and therefore, are required to be
decided expeditiously, and that in the meantime, the importer companies were
directed to pay interim duty on the equipments. The order is extracted below:
In the meantime, we direct the importer-companies herein to pay interim duty
on the following equipments:
1] STM -1;
2] STIM -4;
3] STM  16;
4] STM  64; and 5] STM  256 (In SK,CKD, Sub-assembly and/or parts and
components) However, it is made clear that DWDM stands excluded from the above
list. Subject to above, the impugned judgments of the High Court are stayed.
The Designated Authority is directed, however, to proceed with the hearing and
adjudication of the matter and pass final orders which will be subject to the
decisions in these special leave petitions.
4\. In view of the directions of the Supreme Court, the Designated Authority
continued with its investigations and granted public hearing to all the
parties. Before it could make its final determination, the Additional
Secretary appointed as Designated Authority was transferred and a new
incumbent came in his place. No fresh hearing was afforded to the parties by
the New Designated Authority, while passing the final findings, recommending
duties on the imports of SDH equipment and its parts and components. The
Central Government notified final duties.
5\. Against the final findings and notification of the Central Government, the
exporters and importers including M/s. Huawei Technologies Co. Ltd (Huawei),
VMCL, and M/s. Prithvi Solution Ltd (Prithvi) filed appeals before CESTAT. By
an order dated 11.08.2011, CESTAT allowed the appeals by way of remand as
under:
15. ?Accordingly we allow these appeals by remand to the DA for affording
post-decisional hearing to the appellants and for making such modifications to
the final findings as may be necessary as a result of such post-decisional
hearing. The respondent-domestic industry and other interested parties, if
any, shall also be allowed to participate in such post-decisional hearing. Any
modifications made in the final findings would be considered by giving effect
to the same by the Government by carrying out the necessary amendments to the
impugned notifications imposing anti-dumping duty. This process shall be
completed within 6 months from the date of this order and status quo shall be
maintained meanwhile. Since we are allowing the main appeals by remand, the MA
(EH) and SPs stand disposed off.
6\. Against this order of CESTAT, Huawei, VMCL, Idea Cellular, Designated
Authority and a number of other parties filed SLPs /appeals, which are pending
consideration of the Supreme Court. By on order dated 02.07.2012, the SLP
filed by VMCL was dismissed as not pressed [Vuppalamritha Magnetic Component
Ltd. Vs. Designated Autority as reported in 2013 (292) ELT A64 (SC)].
7\. The appeal filed by Tejas Network against the order of the Andhra Pradesh
High Court was finally decided by the Supreme Court vide their Order dated
20.09.2011, as being infructuous. An extract from the decision is given below:
10. ?The undisputed facts are that the Designated Authority has passed its
preliminary findings under the provisions of Anti-Dumping Laws. The
preliminary findings of the Designated Authority was the subject matter before
the Andhra Pradesh High Court in Writ Petition No. 22155 of 2009. The High
Court, by passing order dated 22-1-2010, has allowed the writ petition and has
set aside the preliminary findings of the Designated Authority. Aggrieved by
the said order, the special leave petition is filed by the appellant herein.
11\. ?During the pendency of this appeal, the Designated Authority has passed
its final findings also. Those final findings were questioned before the
CESTAT by the parties to this lis. The CESTAT, though the special leave
petition was pending before this Court, maybe because of the directions issued
by the Bombay High Court, has disposed of the appeal by remanding the matter
to the Designated Authority.
12\. ?In view of these developments, in our opinion, it may not be necessary
for this Court to go into the issues raised by the appellant herein. All those
issues can be agitated by the parties before the Designated Authority itself.
13\. ?In view of the above, the appeal is disposed of as having become
infructuous. The Designated Authority now will implement the orders passed by
the CESTAT dated 11-8-2011 within the time granted. While doing so, the
Designated Authority will not be influenced by any of the observations made by
the Andhra Pradesh High Court in Writ Petition No. 22155 of 2009 dated
22-1-2010.
8\. The prayer for interim relief in the appeals filed by the exporters and
importers against the Final Order dated 11.08.2011 of CESTAT before the
Supreme Court, was decided as under:
Insofar as interim relief is concerned order dated 31-8-2012 be read as
follows:
We have heard learned counsel for the parties on the question of interim
relief. Having done so, we direct that the appellants shall continue to
deposit the Anti-Dumping Duty in terms of Notifications dated 16th December,
2010, 12th April, 2010, 31st December, 2007 and 7th July, 2010 in an Escrow
Account to be opened in the State Bank of India, Parliament Street, New Delhi.
Appropriate orders in relation to the disbursement of the amount in the said
account shall be made at the time of final disposal of the appeals. It is
agreed that complete details of the amount to be deposited in terms of this
order shall be furnished to the Authority concerned. Rest of order dated
31-8-2012 would remain as it is.
9\. In the meantime, the Designated Authority implementing the orders of
CESTAT, concluded its investigations after granting opportunity of hearing to
all interested parties and issued the second Final Findings dated 10.02. 2012,
affirming its earlier conclusions. The appeal of Huawei has been filed against
the second final findings. All the other appeals pertain to the first final
findings.
Arguments on behalf of Huawei Technologies Ltd., China
10\. Ld. advocate for Huawei Technologies Ltd. contended that (i) the
initiation of the anti-dumping investigations was bad, as the Designated
Authority had not complied with the requirements of Rule 5 of Customs Tariff
(Identification, Assessment and Collection of Anti-Dumping Duty on Dumped
Articles And For Determination of Injury) Rules, 1995. (ii) The copy of Voice
and Data Magazine, which formed the basis of the initiation, had not been
furnished to appellant and hence, it was unable to verify the basis for
initiation of investigations. (iii) Tejas was not carrying out any activities
in India, which would constitute production, for the purposes of Rule 2(b) of
the Anti-dumping Rules. (iv) The findings of Designated Authority that Tejas
was undertaking substantial transformation, was erroneous, especially as its
factory at Pondicherry was not operational, as is evident from the decision of
Madras High Court in the case of Tejas Networks Vs. Commissioner [2010 (254)
ELT 223 (Mad.)]. (v) Designated Authority did not take into account producers
of SDH Equipment in India though undertaking research and development, outside
India, for ascertaining whether Tejas had a major proportion of production in
India. Thus claim of Tejas, that it was an eligible domestic industry, was not
appropriately considered, at the stage of initiation, and thereafter. (vi)
About 65% of the components / parts used by Tejas were imported and hence, it
should be treated as an importer, and not a producer, for the purpose of the
anti-dumping investigations. Tejas imported subject goods, namely PCBA from
China, and hence was excluded even otherwise from the purview of domestic
industry. (vii) The investigations could not have been expanded to include
parts and components, since there was no domestic industry for the same, in
India. The inclusion of STM 64 was also not justified, as STM 64 was not
manufactured and supplied by Tejas during the relevant period. (viii) The
disclosure statement, wrongly mentions that Tejas has sold STM 64 to BSNL, and
treatment of Tejas as a producer of STM 64 on this basis is erroneous. He
produced a letter of BSNL denying purchase of STM 64 from Tejas during the
relevant period. In the Final Findings, Designated Authority has changed its
stand, and stated that Tejas sold STM 64 to Quicktel, which according to the
appellant was a non-existent and thus STM 64 was wrongly included in the
investigations. (viii) Designated Authority exceeded his jurisdiction, by
including STM 256, and DXC which had not been imported into India, from the
subject countries, during the relevant period in-as-much-as anti-dumping duty
is attracted on dumped imports, and can not cover items, which are not
imported.
Arguments on behalf of Alcatel-Lucent Shanghai Bell Co. Ltd
11\. Ld. advocate for Alcatel-Lucent Shanghai Bell Co. Ltd., China contended
that (i) the scope and extent of product under consideration had been altered
in the course of investigations, which was not legally permissible. The import
data considered during investigation was for SDH equipment, whereas in the
final notification, SDH equipment for electrical copper medium and microwave
medium is excluded. Determinations relating to injury are also not based on
appropriate data, since the scope of product has been changing at every stage.
(ii) Activities carried out by Tejas are not adequate for it to acquire the
status of manufacturer. (iii) Under Section 9A of the Customs Tariff Act,
1975, the investigations are for a product, and multiple product
investigation is not envisaged in the Act. Equipment, parts, components, and
software are separate and distinct products, which can not be clubbed and
treated as a single product for anti-dumping investigation. (iv) No duty can
be levied on STM 256, which was not imported during the relevant period; he
cited the decision of CESTAT in the case of Andhra Petrochemicals Ltd. vs
Designated Authority [ 2006 (201) ELT 481 (T)]. (v) As regards software, the
same is not goods, and is more appropriately dealt with by the laws
governing protection of intellectual property rights. The question of
imposition of anti-dumping duty on software does not arise, as software
developed by Tejas is not compatible with Alcatel / Huawei software. The
software made by Tejas is therefore, not like article to the imported
product. (vi) It was wrong on the part of Designated Authority to include
Populated Circuit Boards as Tejas was not a producer of such boards in India.
In this context, reference was made to the decision of the USITC in the case
of DRAMS. (vii) The Notification was also challenged on grounds of vagueness.
It was contended that the expressions like for SDH application only were too
vague to be allowed to be used in taxing provisions. (viii) The levy of duty
on SDH equipment contained in broadband / telecom equipment, was contrary to
the provisions of Section 12 and Section 14 of the Customs Act, 1962 in-as-
much-as under these Sections duty was to be assessed on the goods imported and
these sections are not amenable to assessing parts embedded in the goods
imported. (ix) The normal value determined for ECI China, should have been
taken as normal value for Alcatel-Lucent, since market economy treatment had
been extended to ECI China. (x) Software downloaded electronically cannot be
charged to customs duty as has been held by CESTAT Final Order
No.C/A/52353-52355/2015-CU[DB], dated 29.07.2015 in the case of Oracle India
Pvt. Ltd. & Others Vs. C.C.(Export), New Delhi. (xi) The dumping margins have
not been properly computed.
Arguments of M/s Idea Cellular Ltd. and M/s. Tata Teleservices Ltd.
12\. Ld. counsel for these importers contended that (i) Section 9A ibid
envisages, an enquiry in respect of an article and not multiple articles.
(ii) Rule 4 of the Customs Tariff (Identification, Assessment & Collection of
Anti-Dumping Duty on Dumped Articles and for Determination of Injury) Rules,
1995 (hereinafter Anti-dumping Rules) requires DA to identify the article
liable for anti-dumping duty and so do Rules 6, 10 and 11 of the Anti-Dumping
Rules. Thus, Designated Authority had erred in including within the scope of
investigations more than one article. (iii) Where multiple articles are
included within the scope of an investigation, there should be a domestic
industry for each of such articles, and the applicant must demonstrate that it
has a major proportion, in the production in India for each of such articles.
A separate dumping margin, is required to be determined for each such article.
The Authority has included within the scope of investigation articles, which
are unlike each other. (iv) The investigations were liable to be terminated
under Rule 14 of the Anti-dumping Rules. (v) Domestic industry, as defined in
Rule 2(b), does not require that the IPR in the products must reside in India,
and that if the IPR is in some other country, the producer would stand
excluded from domestic industry. (vi) Designated Authority failed to consider
public interest, while making its determination. The levy of impugned duties
has adversely impacted the telecom industry in India, the judgement of
Rajasthan High Court in the case of JK Industries Vs. Union of India, [2005
(186) ELT 3 (Raj.)] was cited in this regard.
The ld. counsels for M/s. U.T. Starcom supported the contentions of other
appellants.
Submissions by Designated Authority
13\. Ld. counsel for DA submitted as under:-
(i) The final findings in the said investigations have been passed after
following due procedure including observing principles of natural justice.
(ii) The final findings are speaking findings. (iii) On the issue of
standing of Tejas Network Ltd as eligible domestic industry, he invited
attention to para 24 to 27 of the Final Findings dated 10.02.2012. As regards
issue that Tejas did not have production facility at Pondicherry during the
POI, he submitted that Tejas had procured an invoice showing sale of the
product from its Pondicherry facility. Further the factory of the company was
visited by team of officers who confirmed that Tejas was carrying out
production activities at Pondicherry during the POI. (iv) In para 18, sub-para
viii. of the Final Findings dated 10.02.2012, DA clearly recorded that whereas
the interested parties have opposed inclusion of parts and components within
the scope of the product under consideration and the domestic industry on the
contrary has sought inclusion of parts and components on the premise that
their exclusion will leave a big scope for circumvention. DA further noted
that parts and components used in SDH equipment have multiple usages and do
not have a dedicated usage in SDH equipment alone and that the DA, after going
into the details of usage of parts and components, was of the view that
including parts and components, when imported on a standalone basis was going
to put the whole consumer durable industry to hardship. Further, in para 19 of
the Final Findings dated 10.02.2012, while defining the scope of the product
under consideration, it was clearly recorded However components/ parts
imported on a standalone basis are outside the purview of product under
consideration. (v) On the issue of the meaning of production, attention was
drawn to para 13 of the Final Findings dated 10.02.2012. (vi) On the issue of
polling to be carried out in terms of Rule 5 of the Rules, attention was drawn
to para 43 of the second final findings.
Submissions of Domestic Industry
14\. Ld. advocate for Domestic Industry pleaded/contended as under:-
(i) Tejas Networks Ltd established in the year 2000, is a pioneering
telecommunications company which has over 70% of its workforce deployed in
R&D. Tejas has won many awards for excellence and innovation. (ii) Apart from
Alcatel  Lucent, none of the exporters have disputed the fact of dumping,
except to say that the scope of the product had not been appropriately
defined, or that there was no properly constituted domestic industry. It is a
settled legal position, in cases of dumping, duties must be imposed, subject
to the existence of injury. (iii) Dumping is quantified as the difference
between the export price to India, and the normal value for the product in
China or Israel. The dumping margin in the present case, has been computed on
an apple to apple comparison. The Authority has devised a Product Control
Number (PCN), and compared the normal value, with the export price, for each
PCN. On this basis, the Authority has found dumping margins in the range of 5%
to 290%. The exports to India were indisputedly dumped. (iv) The definition
clause, uses the words, producers, production, manufacture and output.
In this context, it is submitted that Tejas is carrying out activities which
result, in a substantial transformation of the inputs, into a distinct and
different final product. The activities carried out by Tejas can be summarised
as under:
(i) Design Cycle
(ii) Proto Cycle / Prototype
(iii) Product Verification
(iv) EMS Services
(v) Assembly , Testing, Loading of Software and Integration
(vi) Post Shipment Support, up gradation and Bug fixes
(vi) R&D is the primary activity and accounts for a substantial share of
overall costs. A prototype of the product, containing all hardware and
software, is made in India, and tested for the relevant parameters. On
achieving the necessary functionality, the software is sent on carrier media
to the EMS, in Thailand, where it is loaded on printed circuit boards
(population of circuit boards). The populated circuit boards are then
assembled with other components in India, and further software loaded. The
system after final testing is ready for supply to customer. The aforesaid
activities result in substantial transformation and constitute production and
manufacture. Only a part of the production activity is outsourced, and
substantial activities are carried out by Tejas, and hence it cannot be said
that its identity as producer of the finished article is lost on account of
outsourcing of certain processes. (vi) As regards, Prithvi and VMCL, no
information was provided by them, as to the nature of activities carried out
by them after import of the assemblies/SKD/CKD items as is evident from
paragraph 72 of the First Final Findings and Paragraph 32 of second Final
Findings. (vii) Tejas has imported standalone components from China, which do
not constitute product under consideration, such as bare boards, capacitors,
connectors, inductors, transformers, trans-receivers, patch cord. These are
dual use items, and are not covered by the notification. The exclusion clause
of Rule 2(b) is therefore not attracted. (viii) Without prejudice to the
above, it is submitted that even if the imports of standalone components from
China are considered to be product under consideration, Tejas would not be
disqualified as a domestic industry. At all points of time, DA has had the
discretion to exclude or not to exclude producers, who are themselves
importers of the dumped article. The total imports from China are about 4% of
the total cost of production of the like article, and less than 1% of total
imports of the subject goods from China into India. The imports being
insignificant, and the principal activity of Tejas not being one of import
from China, Tejas retains its status as a producer, and the injury can not be
said to be self inflicted. In this context, attention was invited to the
decision of the Madras High Court, in the case of Nirma Ltd. Vs. Saint Gobain
Glass India Ltd. [2012 (281) ELT 231 (Mad.)] and other decisions of the CESTAT
referred to later. (ix) It is permissible for the Authority to include within
the purview of the PUC, assemblies, sub-assemblies, parts and components,
which if not included, would make the levy ineffective because otherwise the
exporters could easily circumvent the duty by importing such items and
assembling them in India (which is a simple process). In this context,
reference was made to the practice in other jurisdictions, such as USA and EU
(referred to later). (x) There is no legal requirement that the product under
consideration, should be homogenous or alike. In this context, reliance was
placed on the WTO Panel Report in the case of EC Farm Salmon from Norway and
WTO Panel Report EC Fasteners. (xi) As regards, STM 256, it is submitted that
the duty is on the product, and not its types. As long as the product is
imported, duty can be imposed on all types of such product, provided it is in
commercial competition, with the like article, and can cause injury on its
import. In the present case, STM 256 is a higher version of STM 64, and can
easily substitute for it, if it is imported at lower prices. The inclusion of
STM 256 is therefore justified. In this context, reliance is placed on the
decision of CESTAT in the case of Kajaria Ceramics Vs. Designated Authority
[2006 (195) ELT 146 (T)]. (xii) There is no conflict, as far as Section 12 and
Section 14 of the Customs Act are concerned, with Section 9A of the Customs
Tariff Act, 1975. Section 12 is not applicable to anti-dumping, as the levy is
under Section 9A of the Tariff Act. Section 14 can be applied for valuation of
the article subject to levy that is SDH. (xiii) Designated Authority has
devised a PCN system, which enabled determination of the dumping and injury
margin, for each part, component, or type separately, to the extent
information was made available by the exporters. It is evident that the DA is
required to determine injury to the domestic industry engaged in manufacturing
like article. Such being the case, injury to the domestic industry is required
to be seen in respect of the article under investigation. The Designated
Authority is not required to establish injury in respect of individual types
of the product under consideration. (xiv) The initiation of the
investigations, was based on information made available along with the
petition, and was sufficient for a prima facie satisfaction. (xv) There is no
ambiguity in the notification. It covers only those parts and components,
which are principally designed for SDH equipment. Typically, this would
happen, when certain special processes are carried out on them, to make them
usable as part / component of SDH equipment. Populated Circuit Boards / Card
containing the proprietary software, would be within the scope of levy, only
if they are meant for SDH application.
Submissions of Revenue
15\. Ld. Departmental Representative appearing on behalf of Revenue supported
the findings and the Notification, on the ground that the Designated Authority
had examined the issue in depth and passed a speaking order. It was further
submitted, that since the issuance of the notification, many cases of
circumvention of duties had come to the notice of the Department, where the
equipment was imported as parts, or sub-assemblies in CKD or SKD, intended for
use as SDH equipment. In many of these cases, the importers had deposited the
duties subsequently. It was further pointed out, that survival of the local
telecom equipment manufactures was necessary in public interest, since cases
of espionage had been detected in India and other countries. As regards
inclusion of parts and components, it was submitted that SDH was a technology,
and any part or component containing such technology was subject to the levy.
He drew distinction between production and manufacture. He stated that R&D
required to manufacture a product will be part of the process of production
and in that manner, Tejas is rightly held to be Domestic Industry and not
others. Revenue also stated that Huaweis presence may be inimical to India
and cited news reports/articles in India and other countries.
Discussions & Findings
16\. After conclusion of hearings, the parties were to file written
submissions by 27.01.2016. We have considered the contentions of all sides
raised during the hearing, and elaborated in the written submissions submitted
by the due date. We have also perused the judicial pronouncements cited and
have duly referred to them wherever required. The issues which arise for our
consideration are analysed and discussed below:-
A. Whether the Authority has satisfied itself as to the accuracy and adequacy
of the information furnished, for purposes of initiating investigations under
Rule 5 of the Anti-Dumping Rules.
17\. We find that Rule 5 of the Anti-Dumping Rules, relating to initiation of
investigations reads as under:
5. Initiation of investigation.  (1) Except as provided in sub-rule (4), the
designated authority shall initiate an investigation to determine the
existence, degree and effect of any alleged dumping only upon receipt of a
written application by or on behalf of the domestic industry.
(2) An application under sub-rule (1) shall be in the form as maybe specified
by the designated authority and the application shall be supported by evidence
of 
(a) dumping
(b) injury, where applicable, and
(c) where applicable, a causal link between such dumped imports and alleged
injury.
(3) The designated authority shall not initiate an investigation pursuant to
an application made under sub-rule (1) unless 
(a) it determines, on the basis of an examination of the degree of support
for, or opposition to the application expressed by domestic producers of the
like product, that the application has been made by or on behalf of the
domestic industry:
Provided that no investigation shall be initiated if domestic producers
expressly supporting the application account for less than twenty five per
cent of the total production of the like article by the domestic industry, and
(b) it examines the accuracy and adequacy of the evidence provided in the
application and satisfies itself that there is sufficient evidence regarding 
(i) dumping,
(ii) injury, where applicable; and
(iii) where applicable, a causal link between such dumped imports and the
alleged injury, to justify the initiation of an investigation.
Explanation. - For the purpose of this rule the application shall be deemed to
have been made by or on behalf of the domestic industry, if it is supported by
those domestic producers whose collective output constitute more than fifty
per cent of the total production of the like article produced by that portion
of the domestic industry expressing either support for or opposition, as the
case may be, to the application.
(4) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-rule (1) the designated
authority may initiate an investigation suo moto if it is satisfied from the
information received from the Commissioner of Customs appointed under the
Customs Act, 1962 (52 of 1962) or from any other source that sufficient
evidence exists as to the existence of the circumstances referred to in clause
(b) of sub-rule (3).
(5) The designated authority shall notify the government of the exporting
country before proceeding to initiate an investigation. The scope and extent
of Rule 5 has been examined in various decisions of the High Courts and
CESTAT. In the case of Rajasthan Textile Mills Association Vs. DGAD [2002
(149) ELT 45 (Raj.)], Rajasthan High Court held as under:
The main thrust of the contention of learned Counsel for the petitioner is
the lack of jurisdiction on the ground that the evidence available wan
inadequate and inaccurate for issuing the initiation notification. Rule 5(3)
(b) of the Anti-Dumping Rules requires the Designated Authority, before it
initiates an investigation to examine the accuracy and adequacy of the
evidence provided in the application with regard to dumping, injury and causal
link. The WTO panel report in the case of Guatemala Grey Portland Cement from
Mexico, has observed in para 8.35 as follows:
An anti-dumping investigation is a process where certainty on the existence
of all the elements necessary in order to adopt a measure is reached gradually
as the investigation moves forward. However, the evidence must be such that an
unbiased and objective investigating authority could determine that there was
sufficient evidence of dumping within the meaning of Article 2 to justify
initiation of an investigation. The Panel dealing with the accuracy and
adequacy of evidence observed that if the information supplied in the
application is all that reasonably available to the applicant as required by
Article 5.2, the investigating authority is justified in initiating the
investigation. At the stage of justification of initiation of investigation,
the Designated Authority is not required to hold a detailed inquiry but he has
to prima facie satisfy as to whether the application is supported by the
evidence in relation to dumping, injury and causal link between the dumped
import and alleged injury. A reading of the orders of the Designated Authority
dated 25-6-2001 and 15-10-2001 individually or collectively clearly shows that
the authority has analysed the information and material on record and on being
satisfied of adequacy and accuracy of the evidence issued the impugned
initiation notification.
The Karnataka High Court in its order dated 04.12.2001 rendered in the case of
Madura Coats Limited Vs. Directorate General in W.P. Nos. 41593 to 41596/2001,
held that the High Court will normally not disturb the initiation of an
investigation, and observed as follows:
The designated authority in its order dated 15-10-2001, commencing from para
50 onwards states, that the applicants have a standing to file an application
and further says in its order, that based on the confidential and non-
confidential evidence produced before it, the matter requires to be examined.
This opinion requires to be framed by the designated authority based on the
evidence made available and produced before it by the applicants. This Court
normally in exercise of its judicial review would not disturb the opinion of
the designated authority or the Central Government. This Court only looks into
whether the opinion formed by the designated authority is in consonance with
the provisions of the Act and the Rules framed thereunder. This Court also
will not interfere with the opinion formed by designated authority or the
Central Government unless that opinion is either wholly arbitrary or
unreasonable or no reasonable person would come to such a conclusion or if it
is in violation of statutory provisions. In my opinion, in the instant case,
the designated authority rightly and correctly understanding the scope of
Secs. 9A and 9B and also Rule 5(1) to 5(5) of the Rules, has initiated
investigation proceedings on the application filed by the domestic industries.
In my opinion the designated authority has not committed any error and has not
violated any of the statutory provisions, which calls for my interference.
The Rajasthan High Court had occasion to consider this issue in the case of
Electrolux Kelvinator Vs. UOI, [RLW 2005 (3) Raj 1949] has held as under:
57. I carefully considered rival submissions on this point and examined the
judgments referred by the respective parties. Considering the submissions
advanced on behalf of the respondents it is not disputed that the petitioner
has challenged the initiation notification dated 19.7.2004 and it is also not
disputed that the notification dated 19.7.2004 is nothing but mere a show
cause notice issued by the Designated Authority to exporters as to why anti-
dumping duties should not be levied on their exports of certain compressors
originating in or exported from China and Malaysia on the basis that such
compressors are being dumped.
58\. I carefully considered the judgment of Hon'ble Supreme Court rendered in
the case of Dr. Shashank v. Commissioner of Customs (supra) wherein the
Hon'ble Supreme Court has held as under:-
"We see no reason to interfere with the order of the High Court which
dismissed the writ petition filed challenging the show cause notice that was
issued. The High Court should not have entertained the writ petition under
Article 226 of the Constitution of India against the show cause notice issued
under the Customs Act. The more appropriate remedy for the person aggrieved is
to file a reply to the show cause and take recourse to the proceedings
available under the Act."
59\. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Union of India v. Polar Marmo
Agglomerates (supra) has held that "a High Court should not interfere, in a
writ petition, at the stage of the show cause notice to take over a fact
finding investigation which is similar to the investigation being conducted by
the Designated Authority in the present case. It is also held that the
respondents were served with a notice to show cause why the agglomerated
marble should not be exigible to excise duty under Tariff heading 68.07. It is
further observed that we find that the question involved is a question of
fact, "Whether the properties and characteristics of agglomerated marble
remain the same as those of excavated marble?" We find that the High Court has
gone into questions of fact to resolve this question. The resolution of
questions of fact such as this should, we think, be best left to the fact
finding authorities constituted under the relevant statue. The High Court
should not have interfered, in a writ petition, at the stage of show cause
notice to take over that fact finding investigation."
60\. The same view has been taken by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of
CCE Vs. Charminar (supra) the at the writ petition against the show cause
notice is not maintainable.
61\. I am fully convinced with the submissions made on behalf of the
respondents that it is a mere initiation notification, which is nothing but in
the nature of show cause notice.
In the case of Automotive Tyre Manufacturers Association Vs. Designated
Authority, [2011 (270) ELT 727 (T)], CESTAT held as under:-
As regards the challenge to the sufficiency of information for initiation of
the anti-dumping investigation raised by the appellants, firstly it is rather
too late to challenge the initiation when the final findings have been
rendered, the same has been accepted by the Government and anti-dumping duty
has been notified and further, we were also told during the course of hearing
that the changed circumstances review application is pending before the D.A.
In any case, as pointed out by the learned Advocate Ms. Reena Khair,
initiation of the anti-dumping investigation requires only a prima facie
satisfaction of the D.A. regarding dumping, injury and causal link between the
two. The nature of evidence required for the purpose of initiation need not be
of the same quality and quantity as required for final imposition of the anti-
dumping duty. We also find that the D.I. had submitted a detailed petition
containing evidence regarding dumping, injury and causal link, a copy of which
was submitted to us in the course of hearing and we are satisfied that the
D.A. was right in initiating the impugned anti-dumping investigation acting on
the petition of the D.I. The evidence regarding normal value furnished on the
basis of constructed cost cannot also be faulted with, since the D.I. cannot
be expected to have data regarding cost of production of foreign exporters
18\. The appellants contended that the initiation of investigation was bad
since the authority took no steps for verification of the information / data
furnished before it, prior to such initiation and that (i) The reliance on the
Letter of CMAI was not justified, for examining standing, as they do not
maintain information relating to production of domestic producers. (ii) Voice
and Data Magazine was also not dependable as information relating to imports
or domestic production could not be located by the appellants in any of the
issues of Voice & Data Magazine. The extract provided from the magazine along
with the petition was illegible and did not establish that Tejas was a major
producer of the dumped article in India. (iiii) There was no legal basis for
acceptance of the information in the said magazine, in view of the decision of
CESTAT in the case of Dye Stuff Manufacturers Association of India vs.
Government of India [2003 (157) ELT 154 (T)].
From the various decisions citied in the preceding para, it is clear that the
initiation is to be based on the application filed by the domestic industry.
The initiation is in the nature of a show cause notice requiring only a prima-
facie satisfaction of DA and no detailed inquiry is required to be carried out
at that stage. The initiation is not in the nature of decision but merely a
start of an investigation. The certainty on the existence of all the elements
necessary to levy a duty is reached gradually as the investigations move
forward. The evidence to be furnished for the purposes of initiation is that
which is reasonably available to the applicants. The nature of evidence at the
stage of initiation need not be of the same quality and quantity as required
for final imposition of the Anti-Dumping duty.
We find that the domestic industry submitted a detailed petition containing
evidence regarding dumping, injury and causal link, a copy of which was
submitted to us in the course of hearing. The petition mentions that there are
4 producers in India:-
(i) Tejas Networks Ltd
(ii) ORDYN Technologies Pvt Ltd
(iii) Measurement and Controls Ltd and
(iv) Bharat Electronics Ltd The share of Tejas during the POI has been given
as 84.7%. CMAI (Communication Multimedia and Infrastructure) has given a
letter to the Designated Authority stating as under:
While the association does not maintain accurate information, with regard to
production or supply by different companies or demand in India. We are
confident that production of Tejas Networks Ltd is certainly far more than 50%
of Indian production. In fact, in our estimate, production of Tejas Networks
can be as high as 75% of Indian Production.
The CMAI is a trade association. Its letter clearly mentions that it does not
maintain accurate information with regard to the production of different
companies. In our view, the fact that it does not maintain accurate or exact
figures of production of each company does not negate the fact that it was
well aware that Tejas has a very large share of production in India. As the
production details of other producers would be confidential, its letter
coupled with the contents of the petition constitutes an adequate basis for
purposes of initiation of investigation. Therefore, DA was justified in
initiating the investigation. Needless to mention, once the investigations
were initiated, opposing parties including other producers had ample
opportunity to contest the claim made by Tejas to represent domestic industry
having a major proportion in Indian production.
19\. As regards the contention that copies of the Voice and Data magazine were
not provided to the appellants, we find that these were annexed to the
petition itself. We agree with the arguments of the appellants that
information contained in trade magazine should normally not form the basis of
final determination as regards dumping, injury etc. and such should be made on
the basis of the best available information in the record of the Authority
including the data provided by the foreign exporters or producers in their
responses. At the stage of initiation, however only the applicant domestic
industry is before the Designated Authority and requiring the domestic
industry to produce the exact facts and figures relating to exporters in a
foreign country would be unreasonable at the stage more so because such
details are normally in the exclusive knowledge of the foreign parties. The
applicant can only be asked to bring before the Authority, evidence as is
reasonably available to it for the purpose of initiation of investigation
during the course of which other parties would bring all relevant facts before
the Authority for making the final determinations. As regards the decision of
CESTAT in the case of Dye Stuff Manufacturers Association of India vs.
Government of India (supra), the same is distinguishable on facts, since in
that case, the journal was used as a basis for determination of normal value
in the Final Findings, whereas in the present case, a journal has been used
only for prima facie satisfaction, for the purposes of initiation. DA has also
dealt with this issue as under in the Second Final Findings:
42.The reasoning of the CESTAT in Dye Stuff Manufacturers Association vs.
Designated Authority is not applicable to the present case. In the matter of
Dye Stuff Manufacturers Association vs. Designated Authority, the magazine was
not periodically reporting the price of Aniline. Instead the magazine had
carried an article on Aniline and mentioned the price of Aniline in the
market. In the instant case, however, the interested party agreed that Voice
and Data magazine regularly mentions the relevant information. Further, the
credibility of voice and data magazine gets established if information
contained in the journal with regard to operations of Tejas are compared with
the actual operations of Tejas.
20\. Regarding this issue, the notice of initiation states that the
application has been filed by Tejas, who is a major producer of the product in
India. It further states that there are four other producers in India, and the
petition is supported by Measurement & Controls Ltd, one of the other
producers. DA has also determined for the purposes of initiation that (i)
products of the applicants constitute a major proportion in Indian
production. (ii) Domestic producers expressly supporting the application
account for significantly more than 50% of production of the like product
produced by the domestic industry. (iii) The application has been made by or
on behalf of the domestic industry. It has also satisfied itself as to the
criteria of standing in terms of Rule 5 of the Rules.
21\. We, therefore, find no infirmity in the initiation of investigations by
the Designated Authority based on the Petition filed by Tejas.
B. Whether Tejas is an eligible domestic industry in terms of Rules 2(b) of
the Anti-Dumping Rules.
22\. The second issue to be decided is Whether Tejas is an eligible domestic
industry in terms of Rules 2(b) of the Anti-Dumping Rules. The definition of
domestic industry has undergone changes, which has been taken note of by DA in
the Final Findings as under:-
43. Prior to 15th July, 1999, Rule 2(b) of the rules read as follows  "(b)
domestic industry means the domestic producers as a whole engaged in the
manufacture of the like article and any activity connected therewith or those
whose collective output of the said article constitutes a major proportion of
the total domestic production of that article except when such producers are
related to the exporters or importers of the alleged dumped article or are
themselves importers thereof in which case such producers shall be deemed not
to form part of domestic industry.
44\. At the time of the initiation of this investigation, Rule 2(b) of the
Rules read as follows:- "(b) domestic industry means the domestic producers
as a whole engaged in the manufacture of the like article and any activity
connected therewith or those whose collective output of the said article
constitutes a major proportion of the total domestic production of that
article except when such producers are related to the exporters or importers
of the alleged dumped article or are themselves importers thereof in which
case such producers may be deemed not to form part of domestic industry.
45\. However, post initiation, this Rule has been amended as follows: "2(b)
domestic industry means the domestic producers as a whole engaged in the
manufacture of the like article and any activity connected therewith or those
whose collective output of the said article constitutes a major proportion of
the total domestic production of that article except when such producers are
related to the exporters or importers of the alleged dumped article or are
themselves importers thereof in such case the term domestic industry may be
construed as referring to the rest of the producers only.
46\. Thus, Rule 2(b) of the AD Rules provides that domestic producers which
are related to the exporters or importers or which are themselves importers of
the allegedly dumped articles may be excluded when determining the domestic
industry in certain situations. As the use of the word may in Rule 2(b)
suggests, the two types of producers in question, i.e. related producers and
producers importing the alleged dumped product, are not automatically excluded
from being part of the domestic industry. Rather, it is the consistent
practice of the investigating authorities that the exclusion of such producers
must be decided on a case-by case basis, on reasonable and equitable grounds,
and by taking into consideration all the legal and economic aspects involved.
It has been argued that Tejas is not a producer of the subject goods. The
activities carried out by Tejas can be summarized as under:-
(i) Design Cycle
(ii) Proto Cycle
(iii) Product Verification
(iv) EMS Services
(v) Assembly , Testing, Loading of Software and Integration
(vi) Post Shipment Support, up gradation and Bug fixes A detailed description
of these activities was submitted by Tajas to Designated Authority as under:-
(i) The products are designed based on customer inputs for their new projects
and expansion plans as per Technology Roadmap of the Company.
Following process flow outlines the brief Design & Development Process.
(a) Design Cycle(In-House in Bangalore India )
(i) Marketing Requirement Document (MRD) is prepared by the
Marketing/Technical Department. This document captures all the feature sets
and technology enhancements required by the products based on market
intelligence, customer requirements.
(ii) The MRD is studied in detail and is converted into a Product Requirements
Document (PRD) and Software Requirement Document (SRD) by Engineering Teams.
These documents very clearly specify the interfaces and feature sets available
in the products.
(iii) After review and approval, Engineering Teams comprising of Hardware and
Software Teams are assigned for Design & Development of the Product proto-
type. Design & Development at Tejas is done by a core team of R&D Engineers.
(iv) The R&D teams influence the component vendors to design the ICs also as
per Tejas requirements.
The R & D for development of SDH Technology Software has been carried out in
India, by Tejas. The IPR for such technology resides in India.
(b) Proto Cycle(In-House in Bangalore India):
The product proto-type is developed in-house in Bangalore Facility Lab.
(i) Hardware team designs high speed boards by procuring ICs, semi-conductors
from manufacturers and develops it for simulation and proto testing for its
validation and thus making the hardware ready.
(ii) Programmable device logic implementation (FPGA/CPLD) team implements all
the SDH/SONET/ telecom functionality on the hardware platform. This team does
logic implementation using hardware descriptive language and does design,
coding, testing, simulation of the same.
(iii) Embedded Software team does designing, coding, simulation, target
testing, and regression of node software which is the integral part of the
equipment for its functioning as various features offered in the products are
captured here.
(iv) Mechanical team does Mechanical design, development, simulation and proto
testing of the products and modules.
(v) Manufacturing team designs, develops the software, test-jigs used to test
the product during mass production.
(vi) Network Management System team does designing, coding, simulation,
testing, regression of Element management system software (EMS) and Network
management system software (NMS) which is used for managing SDH equipment
centrally from a single terminal through Point and Click Provisioning by
Graphical User Interface.
A prototype of the SDH Equipment is produced in India, containing all required
hardware and software.
(c) Product Verification (In-House in Bangalore India) A core team of Product
Verification personnel test both the Hardware and Software on the Product and
after testing, approve the Product for final release for manufacturing and
availability to Customer.
(d) EMS Services in India and Abroad:
Once the prototype is developed and thoroughly tested in Tejas Labs in India,
Tejas uses services of EMS for large scale manufacturing. Tejas uses both
Indian and Global EMS depending upon the delivery terms and conditions of the
customers without compromising on the quality of the equipment. These EMS are
mere job processors who execute the assembly line instructions given by Tejas.
Tejas shares the design, specification and issues assembly line instructions
with EMS. The software is provided to the EMS on carrier media. Tejas has
overall say in deciding the electronic component vendors for EMS and also
controls supplies of components to EMS. Tejas controls the overall assembly
line operations by deputing dedicated program managers at the EMS locations.
EMS after processing supplies PCBs meeting the Tejas instructions.
(e) Assembly , Testing, Loading of Software and Integration  (In house in
Bangalore and Pondicherry , India) :
After Processing, EMS ships raw components like PCBs to Tejas Production
facility in Bangalore and Pondicherry. Tejas facility also receives other
parts such as mechanical chassis, racks and cables from other suppliers in
India. Again, components like Chassis, racks are supplied by various vendors
as per Tejas design and specifications.
(i) At the Tejas manufacturing facility in India, these PCBAs and mechanicals
are assembled into boxes as per requirement of the purchase order.
(ii) After assembly operation of a box is over, Node Software is installed
into boxes which enables it to function as SDH/SONET equipment. An equipment
without software is like a scrap and cannot be used as an SDH box. The
software is developed by Tejas in India, this software is an essential element
without which a SDH equipment cannot function as software contains all the
stacks for different protocols.
(iii) SDH equipment after installation of Nodal software are tested and
qualified by Testing and Qualification teams using the product verification
software developed by Tejas in India.
(iv) Network management system is tested for all these products and modules to
deliver FCAPS (Fault Management, Configuration Management, Administration
Management, Performance management and Security Management) at Network layer
centrally in India.
(v) After completion of Testing, the boxes are packed and shipped to
respective locations as specified by the Customer from India.
(vi) On occasions, customers also visits the Tejas manufacturing facility for
the testing and Acceptance of the boxes at the manufacturing facility in
India.
(f) Post Shipment Support, upgradation and Bug fixes Process (In-House in
Bangalore and other customer support centers in India):
Tejas as part of its process has made all efforts to provide full and
comprehensive post shipment support to the Customers from India.
23\. The above process flow clearly shows that substantial activities are
being carried out by Tejas or by job workers on its behalf both in India and
outside India. SDH is a technology product where the value arises on account
of the knowhow contained in the product. This is evident from the fact that
more than 70% of the cost is on account of Research, Design and Development
expenses. Tejas has developed the knowhow and technology for the product in
India. Based on the knowhow and technology a prototype is prepared. This
prototype contains all the necessary hardware and software for SDH equipment.
The prototype is tested having regard to the requirement of the customer. In
order to make SDH equipment in large numbers the services of job workers are
utilized in India as well as abroad. Tejas provides the software to the job
workers on carrier media. It also shares the designs, specifications and
assembly line instruction with them. After processing the various items are
assembled at Tejas factory in Pondicherry and Bangalore. Further software is
installed in the boxes so as to enable it to function as a SDH/SONET
equipment. We find that the predominant activity is carried out by Tejas and
is, therefore, a producer of SDH equipment. About 70% of the total cost of
production of the equipment for Tejas is research and development, or cost of
development of software, and about 30% is hardware cost. Of the total
components used by Tejas, near about 65% are imported. The populated circuit
board (containing Tejas software), imported from Thailand, where it is sent
for mass production, is the main item of import. The activities carried out by
the job worker in Thailand, are only a part of the processes involved in the
production of SDH equipment and do not take out Tejas from the category of
producer. Relying on the decision of Madras High Court in the case of Tejas
Networks Vs. Commissioner (supra), it has been argued by the exporters that
there was no manufacturing facility in Pondicherry. However, the said decision
of Madras High Court does not relate to the Period of Investigation. We find
that the factory of Tejas was duly visited to verify the factual position as
it existed during the Period of Investigation. Further, Domestic Industry is
defined in Rule 2 of the Rules as under:-
2(b) domestic industry means the domestic producers as a whole engaged in
the manufacture of the like article and any activity connected therewith or
those whose collective output of the said article constitutes a major
proportion of the total domestic production of that article except when such
producers are related to the exporters or importers of the alleged dumped
article or are themselves importers thereof in which case such producers may
be deemed not to form part of domestic industry. As is evident from the above
definition, the word producer has connotation wider than a mere manufacturer
and includes even those engaged in any connected activity. Therefore, as
argued by ld. Departmental Representative with the substantial activities
undertaken by Tejas, it is clearly covered within the scope of producer.
24\. The second requirement under Rule 2(b) of the Anti-Dumping Rules is that
the applicant must have a major proportion in the Indian production. CESTAT,
in its judgement in the case of Lubrizol India Pvt. Ltd. Vs. Designated
Authority [2005(187) ELT 402 (Tri  Del)], has dealt with the term major
proportion as under:
15.1 We may? note here that the words major proportion of the total
production in Rule 2(b) defining the domestic industry are also capable of
being construed so as to mean significant proportion or important part of the
total production which may not necessarily exceed 50%. The word major, as
per the Oxford Dictionary, means important, serious or significant. The word
proportion, in the context, would mean share. Therefore, the expression
major proportion would, in the context, of total production of domestic
industry, mean significant or important share. Such an interpretation is
clearly permissible and going by it, the share of the petitioner in the total
domestic production, being more than 31%, was undoubtedly a significant or
important share i.e. a major proportion thereof. The words major proportion
of total domestic production cannot be viewed from the angle of solving a
mathematical sum involving comparative measurements or size of different parts
of a whole. The phrase is used in the context of the production output of
domestic producers and admits of a broad interpretation so as to take in its
sweep collective output that constitutes a significant or important share of
the total domestic production of the article by the producers engaged in the
manufacture or engaged in any activity connected with the manufacture of such
article, as contemplated by Rule 2(b). We find that no party other than
Prithvi and VMCL came forward to claim the status of domestic producer but no
information was provided as to the nature of activities carried out by them
after import of the assemblies/SKD/CKD items from the subject countries.
Relevant extracts from the first and second Final Findings in this regard, are
reproduced below:
Extract from First Final Findings Response to the Communication Dated 20th
July, 2010 . . .. .
The Authority holds that the onus, under the AD Rules, is on the interested
parties to provide relevant information with supportive verifiable evidence
for consideration by the Authority. The Rules do not either prescribe or bind
the Authority to seek inputs / information from any interested party towards
later part of the proceedings, so long as the Authority has received relevant
information and has provided sufficient time to the parties. The
communication dated 20th July was sent to both the above named importers as
another opportunity to give them yet another chance to substantiate their
claim. Instead of providing the same, they have repeated their earlier
submissions without providing any information / evidence to support their
claim. While Prithvi has claimed that they are manufacturers of DWDM, (Non-PUC
Product), VMCL has claimed to be manufacturers of PUC, once again, without
providing any verifiable information on the activities carried out by them
supported by the details about their workforce, balance sheet, inputs, R&D
etc. Both of them have also not provided any information on imports made by
them although an importers questionnaire should have been filed by them
(Questionnaire is available on the official website of Department of
Commerce). Further they have admitted having imported components but have been
silent on the issue of complete equipment as well, which came to the notice of
the Authority during the verification of data of one of the responding
exporters from China PR. To sum up, apart from seeking extension in time to
file a response to the information sought by the Authority, which was allowed
by the Authority, nothing of substance was provided to the Authority except
repetition of what had been stated by them earlier from time to time. The
Authority holds that all the issues raised by them earlier and repeated in
their submissions dated 6th August have already been addressed in the
paragraphs here-in before and need not be repeated. Extract of Second Final
Findings 32. It has been alleged that although there are a number of other
manufacturers, Tejas has been considered to have the necessary standing of
constituting a major proportion of the total domestic production within the
scope of Rule 2(b) of the AD Rules. In this context, the Authority notes that
initially, after the initiation of investigation, apart from Prithvi and VMCL,
no other so called manufacturer, as highlighted by both Prithvi and VMCL in
their submissions, has come forward to claim the status of being a domestic
manufacturer. Even Prithvi and VMCL, barring a claim to this effect in a
narrative form, never provided any verifiable information about their
manufacturing activities. Prithvi / VMCL have not filed questionnaire response
in the form and manner prescribed, either as a domestic producer or an
importer of the product under consideration. Even when the Authority
specifically advised these companies to provide information in the form and
manner prescribed, these interested parties have preferred not to provide
relevant information. Even otherwise they never furnished any details / data
about their set up except the claim that they are manufacturers as they also
pay excise duty. Mere payment of excise duty cannot amount to give the status
of a manufacturer for the present purpose, as already stated herein before.
The Authority notes that these two companies have preferred non-cooperation
within the meaning of Rule 6(8). The Authority holds that while it is open for
an interested party to advance its argument, it is obligatory on the part of
such interested party to provide such information as is requested by the
Authority and offer itself for verification, if desired by the Authority. The
entire exercise undertaken in the instant case in ascertaining actual status
of these entities would have been significantly smoothened, had these
interested parties provided relevant information demanded by the Authority and
offered themselves to spot verification. In view of conscious non-cooperation
preferred by these interested parties, the Authority has been constrained to
rely upon available material in this regard. Thus, the claim of VMCL and
Prithvi that they are domestic producers was based exclusively on the fact
that they were paying duties of excise on their products. However, excise duty
can be paid by a person under mistaken belief that it was a manufacturer.
Also, in the Central Excise Act, 1944, there are several deeming fictions to
treat certain operations as manufacture even if those operations may not
amount to manufacture (but for such legal fictions). For example, Note 6 to
Section XVI, covering products of Chapter 84 and 85 of the Tariff, reads as
under:
In respect of goods covered by this Section, conversion of an article which
is incomplete or unfinished but having the essential character of the complete
or finished article (including blank, that is an article, not ready for
direct use, having the approximate shape or outline of the finished article or
part, and which can only be used, other than in exceptional cases, for
completion into a finished article or a part), into complete or finished
article shall amount to manufacture. Thus, mere fact of payment of excise
duty would not entitle Prithvi and VMCL to sustain their claim for grant of
status as domestic producer. No material was furnished by them to demonstrate
the nature of activities carried out by them. They neither filed importer
response nor domestic industry response in the prescribed format. They also
did not respond to the specific request of DA for information in this regard.
In these circumstances, Designated Authority cannot be faulted for not
treating Prithvi and VMCL as domestic producers.
25\. It was also argued by the appellants that Tejas being an importer of
subject goods from China was excluded from the purview of domestic industry.
While the domestic industry contended that it had not imported subject goods
from China, even if such imports had been made, DA had the discretion to
include or exclude a producer, who is also an importer of subject goods, from
domestic industry. DA has given a categorical finding on facts that Tejas
had not imported subject goods from the subject country that is China. No
material has been brought on record before us to dislodge this finding. The
appellants have relied upon the US ITC Findings in the case of DRAMs from
Taiwan. In that case, some producers were only making designs and had no
fabrication facility in the USA. They were getting the fabrication done
entirely in Taiwan (subject country) and importing the products into the USA.
Thus, the said decision is clearly distinguishable on facts as Tejas was also
carrying out production/fabrication activity in India and was not importing
SDH equipment from China and was getting a part of the activity done on job
work basis in Thailand which is not the subject country of investigation. That
apart, during the relevant period, DA had the discretion to consider Tejas as
eligible domestic industry, as held by the Madras High Court in the case of
Nirma Ltd. Vs. Saint Gobain Glass India Ltd.(supra). The relevant paragraphs
of the said judgement are extracted below:-
56. ?A contrary interpretation taken by the learned Judge in the impugned
order in this regard, in our considered view, is not only incorrect, but also
against the very aim of the Rule, which is intended to prevent anti-dumping to
this country, in order to avoid competition in the internal market by the
foreign importers who dump their goods for a lesser price, which will
certainly paralyze the economy of the country in the course of time. In fact,
the basis for international agreement is to have economic sovereignty of the
member countries. While so, the restrictive interpretation given by the
learned Judge taking away the discretionary power of the Designated Authority
cannot be said to be in accordance with Section 9A of the Act as well as the
various provisions of the Rules.
57\. ?While it is true that the international agreements like WTO and GATT may
not be the absolute and only source for interpreting the Indian Law, so long
as there is no contradiction between the definition of the agreement in the
international law and the terms of the Indian Law, there is absolutely no
prohibition for this Court to take note of the terms of the international
agreements for the purpose of better appreciation of the term.
58.?We, therefore, hold that the term domestic industry, as it was amended
on 27-2-2010, has not taken away the discretionary power of the Designated
Authority and the Designated Authority is entitled to proceed further. The
Calcutta High Court in the case of State of Gujarat Fertiliser & Chem. Ltd.
Vs. Addl. Secretary & D. A., [2012 (286) ELT 348 (Cal.)] held as under: -
13. ?Bearing aforesaid legal position it is incumbent for this Court to see
what could be real and rational object for employing the definition of
domestic industry and this could be gathered upon reading the object of the
said Rule. The Supreme Court has explained why the aforesaid rule has been
framed by the legislature. In case of Reliance Industries Ltd. v. Designated
Authority and Others reported in (2006) 10 SCC 368 = 2006 (202) E.L.T. 23
(S.C.) in paragraph 48 it is clearly mentioned the object of framing this
Rule. We cannot do better than to reproduce the paragraph 48 of the said
report:-
The anti-dumping law is, therefore, a salutary measure which prevents
destruction of our industries which were built up after independence under the
guidance of our patriotic, modern-minded leaders at that time and it is the
task of everyone today to see to it that there is further rapid
industrialisation in our country, to make India a modern, powerful, highly
industrialised nation.
14\. ?Thus it is very clear that the definition of the importer as mentioned
in Rule 2(b) has to be understood in the context of protecting indigenous
industry producing same material. Here we notice on fact of course going by
the statement made in the complaint of the appellant made to the appropriate
authority that nearly 15% of its total production is imported by it and that
too casually and to meet customers demand during the time when the production
was disrupted, and this quantity of import is very insignificant portion of
the total import from the same exporting countries. According to us realistic
and logical meaning should be the person who is carrying on business of import
exclusively for trading purpose is the importer under the said Rule. We have
examined the object clause of the Memorandum of Association of the appellant
and nowhere we find that it carries on business principally, of import of
Melamine. We therefore do not find any merit in the contention that Tejas is
excluded from the category of domestic producer of subject goods in India in
terms of Rule 2(b) of Anti-Dumping Rules.
C. Whether the Product under Consideration (PUC) is properly defined, having
regard to the statute.
26\. The appellants have contended that (i) STM1, STM4, STM16, STM64, and
STM256 are separate and distinct products, and can not be treated as a single
product. By including within the PUC, different products, the Authority has
erroneously determined the standing of domestic industry, dumping and injury.
(ii) Separate investigations ought to have been initiated, and the clubbing of
different items in one investigation has resulted in erroneous determinations.
It was pointed out that in Section 9A ibid, and the Rules made thereunder, the
expression used is an article. Ld. advocate for domestic industry on the
other hand argued that all the equipment operate on SDH technology, and the
equipment of higher numbers are having greater capacity and speed of
transmission of voice and data signals. Therefore, grouping of SDH equipment
of different configurations / capacities is appropriate and permissible under
the Act and the international agreements.
27\. Before dealing with the arguments and counter arguments, we note that the
Supreme Court, in its recent decision in the case of G M Exports [2015 (324)
ELT 209 (SC)] elucidating the broad principles of interpretation of a statute
made to enforce a treaty obligation, held as under:
23. ?A conspectus of the aforesaid authorities would lead to the following
conclusions:
(1) ?Article 51(c) of the Constitution of India is a Directive Principle of
State Policy which states that the State shall endeavour to foster respect for
international law and treaty obligations. As a result, rules of international
law which are not contrary to domestic law are followed by the courts in this
country. This is a situation in which there is an international treaty to
which India is not a signatory or general rules of international law are made
applicable. It is in this situation that if there happens to be a conflict
between domestic law and international law, domestic law will prevail.
(2) ?In a situation where India is a signatory nation to an international
treaty, and a statute is passed pursuant to the said treaty, it is a
legitimate aid to the construction of the provisions of such statute that are
vague or ambiguous to have recourse to the terms of the treaty to resolve such
ambiguity in favour of a meaning that is consistent with the provisions of the
treaty.
(3) ?In a situation where India is a signatory nation to an international
treaty, and a statute is made in furtherance of such treaty, a purposive
rather than a narrow literal construction of such statute is preferred. The
interpretation of such a statute should be construed on broad principles of
general acceptance rather than earlier domestic precedents, being intended to
carry out treaty obligations, and not to be inconsistent with them.
(4)?In a situation in which India is a signatory nation to an international
treaty, and a statute is made to enforce a treaty obligation, and if there be
any difference between the language of such statute and a corresponding
provision of the treaty, the statutory language should be construed in the
same sense as that of the treaty. This is for the reason that in such cases
what is sought to be achieved by the international treaty is a uniform
international code of law which is to be applied by the courts of all the
signatory nations in a manner that leads to the same result in all the
signatory nations. In the light of the above observations of the Supreme
Court, we note that Section 9Aof the Act is to be construed in the same sense
as that of the treaty regarding anti-dumping measures. Ld. counsel for
domestic industry referred to the WTO Panel Report in the case of EC- Farmed
Salmon from Norway, relevant paras of which are quoted below:-
7.44 In essence, Norway's claims under Articles 2.1 and 2.6 of the AD
Agreement are premised on two contentions: First, that these provisions
establish an obligation on investigating authorities to ensure that where the
goods being investigated comprise groups or categories of goods, all such
groups or categories must individually be "like" each other, thereby
constituting a single homogenous "product under consideration"; and second,
that the facts that were before the investigating authority during the
investigation in dispute show that the "product under consideration"
investigated by the EC was made up of a broad range of goods that do not
constitute a single homogenous "product" because they were not all "like" each
other.
7.45 According to Norway, the obligation to ensure that all categories making
up the product under consideration are "like" each other follows "as a logical
consequence" from what it argues is a requirement under Articles 2.1 and 2.6
for investigating authorities to ensure that any product category making up
the "like product" must be individually "like" each and every separate product
category making up the product under consideration. Thus, a threshold question
for us is whether Norway's premise, that Articles 2.1 and 2.6 require all
product categories making up the "like product" to be each individually "like"
each and every separate product category making up the product under
consideration, is correct. If it is not, then Norway's legal argument is
incorrect, and we need not consider its contentions regarding the facts of
this case.
. . . .
7.47 Beyond stating that the language of Article 2.1 reveals that a
determination of dumping can only be made through a comparison of "the prices
of an exported product  referred to as the 'product under consideration' 
and a 'like product'", Norway provides no analysis of the text of this
provision. Moreover, Norway identifies no explicit obligation in the text of
Article 2.1 to support its claim that the "product under consideration" must
consist of a single, internally homogeneous, product or, alternatively,
categories that are each individually "like" each other so as to constitute a
single homogenous product.
7.48 We agree that Article 2.1 refers to "a product" as being dumped, but
cannot agree that there is any obligation concerning the scope of that product
in that provision. There is simply nothing in the text of Article 2.1 that
provides any guidance whatsoever as to what the parameters of that product
should be. The mere fact that a dumping determination is ultimately made with
respect to "a product" says nothing about the scope of the relevant product.
There is certainly nothing in the text of Article 2.1 that can be understood
to require the type of internal consistency posited by Norway.
7.49 At the same time, other provisions of the AD Agreement, relevant as
context, suggest that whatever the parameters of "a product" in Article 2.1
may be, the concept is not so limited as Norway argues. For instance, Article
6.10 provides for limited examination in cases where the number of "types of
products involved" is so large as to make it impracticable to determine an
individual margin of dumping. Similarly, the Appellate Body has recognized
that an investigating authority may divide a product into groups or categories
of comparable goods for purposes of comparison of normal value and export
price  the practice of "multiple averaging". Neither of these would be
necessary if Norway's view of the meaning of "a product" in Article 2.1 were
the only permissible interpretation. There would be no possibility of
investigating more than one "type of product" as mentioned in Article 6.10,
and no reason to group comparable goods for purposes of making price
comparisons for each group in the process of calculating a single dumping
margin for the product as a whole. These considerations lead us to conclude
that, while Article 2.1 establishes that a dumping determination is to be made
for a single product under consideration, there is no guidance for determining
the parameters of that product, and certainly no requirement of internal
homogeneity of that product, in that Article.
. . . . .
7.53 In our view, even assuming Article 2.6 requires an assessment of likeness
with respect to the product under consideration "as a whole" in determining
like product, an issue which is not before us and which we do not address,
this would not mean that an assessment of "likeness" between categories of
goods comprising the product under consideration is required to delineate the
scope of the product under consideration. Merely to say that the product under
consideration must be treated "as a whole" in addressing the question of like
product does not entail the conclusion that the product under consideration
must itself be an internally homogenous product. We can see nothing in the
paragraph from the Appellate Body Report in US  Softwood Lumber V, relied
upon by Norway, which would indicate otherwise. Treating the product under
consideration "as a whole" means that a single dumping margin is calculated
for that product, however defined, but says nothing about the scope of that
product.
. . . .
7.56 Norway's position would, in our view, require that any difference between
sub-categories, or even individual goods, within a product under consideration
would mean that each must be treated individually. As noted, Article 2.6 first
refers to whether goods are identical in assessing likeness. Since every
article is identical to itself, each such article would have to be considered
separately. There would never be occasion to move on to consideration of
whether another article has "characteristics closely resembling" it. Thus, a
product under consideration could not consist of any grouping of non-identical
product categories. This would, in our view, be an absurd result. Norway
ignores the concept of "identical" products, arguing that an investigating
authority should determine, based on a series of criteria, whether products
"resemble one another physically" in determining an appropriate product under
consideration. Such an assessment of whether products resemble one another is
only permitted, however, in the absence of identity under Article 2.6.
Moreover, the possibility of treating non-identical goods as like products to
an imported product under consideration makes sense, as it is entirely
possible that, for instance, the products manufactured in the importing
country are not identical to the imported product under consideration. In such
a case, if the AD Agreement did not allow the possibility of treating another,
non-identical product, as the like product, there would be no basis for
investigation and imposition of anti-dumping duties. But this consideration
simply does not arise in the context of delineating the product under
consideration, which is necessarily identical to itself.
7.57 We note that, on its face, Article 2.6 does not apply to the question of
"determining" a product under consideration at all. Norway asserts that, in
order to make a determination of dumping, an investigating authority must make
a determination with respect to each of the constituent elements of dumping,
including, inter alia, product under consideration. Norway does not argue that
there is a specific direction to "determine" product under consideration in
the AD Agreement, but asserts that there must be an active step of making a
finding. Norway further asserts that specific criteria govern this
determination, although, again, there is no specific identification of any
relevant criteria in the AD Agreement. While it seems self-evident to us that
an investigating authority must, at the time it initiates an anti-dumping
investigation, make a decision as to the scope of that investigation, and give
notice of the "product involved", we are not persuaded that either Article 2.1
or Article 2.6 of the AD Agreement establish a requirement for making an
elaborated determination in that regard.
7.58 Essentially, Norway's argument raises an issue of policy, suggesting that
the absence of limits on the scope of the product under consideration might
result in erroneous dumping determinations by investigating authorities.
Norway argues that, if products that are not "like" are treated as the product
under consideration in a single investigation, a dumping determination cannot
reveal whether some or all of those products are dumped. Norway gives, as an
example, in investigation in which cars and bicycles are treated as one
product under investigation. We are not persuaded by Norway's extreme example.
Any grouping of products into a single product under consideration will have
repercussions throughout the investigation, and the broader such a grouping
is, the more serious those repercussions might be, complicating the
investigating authority's task of collecting and evaluating relevant
information and making determinations consistent with the AD Agreement. Thus,
it seems to us that the possibility of an erroneous determination of dumping
based on an overly broad product under consideration is remote. That
possibility is certainly not enough to persuade us to read obligations into
the AD Agreement for which we can find no basis in the text of the Agreement.
7.59 Moreover, Norway's position would result in the absurd situation of
requiring fragmentation of the product under consideration, and a consequent
fragmentation of the like product, and ultimately the domestic industry, which
would render the possibility of imposing dumping duties consistent with the AD
Agreement a nullity. We see nothing in Article 2.6, which as discussed,
defines "like product", which would support this view. In this regard, it is
noteworthy that, while the AD Agreement specifically defines "like product" by
requiring a comparison between domestically produced (or foreign) goods and
the imported products that are the subject of the investigation, there is no
specific definition of "product under consideration". In our view, the very
fact that there is a definition of like product in the AD Agreement indicates
that Members were well able to define terms carefully and precisely when
considered necessary. The absence of a definition of product under
consideration indicates that no effort was undertaken in that regard. In our
view, this consideration supports the conclusion that it would be absurd to
impose the definition of like product from Article 2.6 onto the undefined term
product under consideration. We simply see no basis in the text of Articles
2.1 and 2.6 for the obligations Norway seeks to impose on investigating
authorities with respect to product under consideration.
7.60 Norway makes a number of additional contextual arguments in support of
its interpretation of Article 2.6, none of which persuade us to change our
views based on the text. Norway argues that the first comparison methodology
for calculating the margin of dumping set out in Article 2.4.2 (weighted
average normal value to weighted average export price) confirms that "the
group of products under investigation must all be alike". According to Norway,
while it is possible under this methodology to sub-divide the product under
consideration into segments for the purpose of making the comparison (i.e.,
"multiple averaging"), all such segments must belong to a group of products
meeting the definition of likeness, citing in this respect, a statement by the
Appellate Body in EC  Bed Linen . . . .
7.64 Article 3.6 is a provision about what information an investigating
authority may evaluate in considering the effects of dumped imports for the
purpose of determining injury to a domestic industry.244 It simply has no
bearing on the question of product under consideration. Article 3.6 addresses
a particular question about the data to be considered in an investigating
authority's inquiry into the effects of dumping. This happens, in every
investigation, after the product under consideration has been defined, the
domestic like product has been determined pursuant to Article 2.6, and the
relevant domestic industry has been determined pursuant to Article 4.1, which
defines "domestic industry" for the purposes of the AD Agreement. Article 4.1
makes clear that the starting point for the identification of the domestic
industry is the "like product". Norway's argument, on the other hand, would
entail a consideration of the production activities of the domestic industry
in the definition of the like product, and of the product under consideration,
introducing a circularity into the analysis which is untenable. Thus, we
consider, Norway's reliance on Article 3.6 to be misplaced and unpersuasive.
. . . . .
7.70 The most significant discussion of the issue of product under
consideration was in the US  Softwood Lumber V dispute, which involved facts
and arguments very similar to those in the case at hand. In the underlying
investigation, the US Department of Commerce (USDOC) had identified the
"product under consideration" as all "softwood lumber, flooring and siding
(softwood lumber products)", comprising numerous types of softwood lumber
products, including certain products (bed frame components, finger-jointed
flange stock, Eastern White Pine and Western Red Cedar) that Canada argued
should have been excluded from the investigation. The "like product"
identified by the USDOC for purposes of the dumping determination was
described in exactly the same terms as the "product under consideration" - all
"softwood lumber, flooring and siding (softwood lumber products)". Thus, the
product under consideration and the "like product" both included a variety of
product types, but exactly the same product types in each case, as is true in
the case at hand. There is no dispute in this case that the like products
(Norwegian farmed salmon and EC farmed salmon) are coextensive with the
product identified by the EC as the product under consideration, farmed
salmon.
A similar view has been taken in the WTO Panel Report in the case of EC
Fasteners, the relevant portion of which is reproduced below: -
7.259 To recall briefly the relevant facts, in this case, the Commission
defined the "product concerned" in the investigation, as: "certain iron or
steel fasteners, other than of stainless steel, i.e. wood screws (excluding
coach screws), self-tapping screws, other screws and bolts with heads (whether
or not with their nuts or washers, but excluding screws turned from bars,
rods, profiles or wire, of solid section, of a shank thickness not exceeding 6
mm and excluding screws and bolts for fixing railway track construction
material), and washers, originating in the People's Republic of China (all
together hereinafter referred to as fasteners or product concerned). The
product concerned is normally declared within CN codes 7318 12 90, 7318 14 91,
7318 14 99, 7318 15 59, 7318 15 69, 7318 15 81, 7318 15 89, ex 7318 15 90, ex
7318 21 00 and ex 7318 22 00. Fasteners are used to mechanically join two or
more elements in construction, engineering, etc., and are used in a wide
variety of industrial sectors, as well as by consumers. Based on their basic
physical and technical characteristics and end uses, all fasteners are
considered to constitute a single product for the purpose of the proceeding.
Within the same national or international standards, fasteners should comply
with the same basic physical and technical characteristics including notably
strength, tolerance, finishing and coating. The Commission went on to
consider, and reject, arguments by the parties, concerning the scope of the
product under consideration.
 7.263 Beyond noting that Article 2.1 requires that the comparison that must
be made to determine whether there is dumping must be carried out between the
export price of a product and the price for the "like product ... in the
exporting country", China does not address this provision in its arguments. We
agree that Article 2.1 refers to "a product" as being dumped, but cannot see
that it establishes any specific obligation concerning the scope of that
product. Nothing in the text of Article 2.1 provides any guidance as to what
the parameters of "a product" with respect to which a determination of dumping
is made should be. The mere fact that a dumping determination is ultimately
made with respect to "a product" says nothing about the scope of that product.
There is certainly nothing in the text of Article 2.1 that can be understood
to require any consideration of "likeness" in the scope of the exported
product investigated, contrary to China's argument  7.267 It is clear to us
that the subject of Article 2.6 is not the scope of the product that is the
subject of an anti-dumping investigation at all. Rather, the purpose of
Article 2.6, apparent from its plain language, is to define the term "like
product" for purposes of the AD Agreement. The plain language of Article 2.6
calls for an assessment of "likeness" between some group of goods and "the
product under consideration" in order to identify a "like product". Thus,
logically, the scope of the "product under consideration" referred to in
Article 2.6 must already be known before the provisions of Article 2.6
regarding "likeness" come into play. That is, it must be known what the
comparator is, before any comparison can be made to assess whether another
product is "identical" to or, in the absence of an identical product, "has
characteristics closely resembling those of", the imported "product under
consideration". China's position would, in our view, require that any
difference between categories of goods, and potentially even between
individual goods, within a product under consideration would require that each
such category or individual good be treated individually, as a separate
product under consideration. This would be problematic, as, given that a
"domestic industry" for purposes of the AD Agreement is defined as producers
of a like product, such a fragmented product under consideration, and
correspondingly fragmented like products, would result in the definition of,
and determination of injury to, multiple, narrowly defined "industries" which
may bear little if any resemblance to the economic realities of the production
of those goods in the importing country.
.
7.269 Essentially, China's argument raises an issue of policy, suggesting that
the absence of limits on the scope of the product under consideration might
result in erroneous dumping determinations by investigating authorities. China
argues that, if products that are not "like" are treated as the product under
consideration in a single investigation, a dumping determination would not
reflect a comparison between a product's export price and the domestic price
of its like product. China gives, as an example, an investigation in which
apples and tomatoes are treated as one product under investigation. China
argues that the investigating authority could compare the prices of the apples
and find they are dumped, and could compare the prices of the tomatoes and
find they are not dumped, but an anti-dumping duty would nonetheless be
imposed on both apples and tomatoes, which would be an unfair result.
.
7.271 Moreover, we consider it noteworthy that, while the AD Agreement
specifically defines "like product" by requiring a comparison between
domestically-produced or foreign goods and the imported goods that are the
product under consideration, there is no specific definition of "product under
consideration". In our view, the very fact that there is a definition of like
product in the AD Agreement indicates that Members were well able to define
terms carefully and precisely when they considered it necessary. Their failure
to provide any definition of product under consideration, much less to require
that the scope of that product be determined on the basis of the concept of
likeness set out in Article 2.6, indicates that they did not intend to do so.
This implies to us that the Members intended to allow investigating
authorities wide discretion to determine a product under consideration.574 In
our view, this supports the conclusion that it would be absurd to impose the
definition of like product from Article 2.6 onto the undefined term product
under consideration. We simply see no basis in the text of Articles 2.1 and
2.6 of the AD Agreement for the obligation China seeks to impose on
investigating authorities with respect to product under consideration.
7.272 Thus, we conclude that, contrary to China's claim, Articles 2.1 and 2.6
of the AD Agreement do not establish an obligation on investigating
authorities to ensure that the product under consideration include only "like"
products. We therefore do not consider it necessary to address China's
arguments concerning the facts. Whether standard and special fasteners are or
are not "like" each other within the meaning of Article 2.6 is not a relevant
question with respect to the product under consideration, in light of our
decision on the interpretation of Articles 2.1 and 2.6.
.
7.278 Based on the foregoing, and in the light of standard set out in Article
17.6(i) of the AD Agreement, we do not accept China's view that Articles 2.1
and 2.6 must be interpreted to require the European Union to have defined the
product under consideration to include only products that are "like". As a
consequence, we dismiss China's claim that the product under consideration
identified by the European Union was inconsistent with the requirements of
Articles 2.1 and 2.6 of the AD Agreement. The above WTO Panel reports make it
amply clear that it is not necessary that all types covered by PUC must be
alike to each other or even necessarily constitute a homogenous group. In the
present case, the various STMs, are all having SDH technology and are
upgradations of the models having lower numerical value. They are different
types of SDH Equipment, which is the product under consideration. Thus, in our
view, the determination of product scope by Designated Authority is
sustainable. Regarding the contention that the scope of PUC has been altered
during the course of investigations, Designated Authority is required to come
to a final determination only after consideration of the contentions of all
interested parties and in the process, the scope of PUC may get altered but
that would not vitiate the proceedings so long as the principles of natural
justice are complied with in respect of the interested parties which has been
done in this case.
28\. As regards the parts and components, it is contended by the appellants
that there is no domestic industry for the part and components, and hence no
duty can be imposed on their import. Ld. advocate for the domestic industry
contended that (i) the course of production of SDH Equipment by Tejas, various
parts, components and sub-assemblies come into existence. Tejas is a producer
of all the items, which arise in the manufacturing process, even though these
items are not produced for sale, but for captive consumption. (ii) DA has
devised a PCN system, which enables determination of the dumping and injury
margin, for each part, component, or type separately, to the extent
information has been made available by the exporters. (iii) As regards injury
to the domestic industry, Rule 2(b), 11 and Annexure II of the Anti-dumping
Rules and WTO decisions were referred to. (iv) It is evident that the
Designated Authority is required to determine injury to the domestic industry
engaged in manufacturing like article. Such being the case, injury to the
domestic industry is required to be seen in respect of the article under
investigation.
29\. In our view it is permissible for the Authority to include within the
purview of the PUC, parts and components, which if not included, would make
the levy ineffective. The coverage of the product for levy of duty should be
such that the purpose and intent of the levy is achieved. Anti-dumping duty is
levied to safeguard the domestic producers from ill effects of dumping. If the
parts and components meant for SDH application are excluded, the importers
could simply bring the items in different consignments, in unassembled form,
and assemble the same in India and defeat the levy. Indeed, including parts
and components is consistent with the global practice of defining the PUC in a
manner so as to prevent avoidance or circumvention of the levy by the
exporters as is evident from the USITC decisions cited by ld. advocate for
domestic industry and reproduced below:-
(a) Certain Tow-Behind Lawn Groomers and Parts Thereof from China Commerce
has defined the imported merchandise within the scope of these investigations
as follows:
The scope of this investigation covers certain non-motorized tow behind lawn
groomers (lawn groomers), manufactured from any material, and certain parts
thereof. Lawn groomers are defined as lawn sweepers, aerators, dethatchers,
and spreaders. Unless specifically excluded, lawn groomers that are designed
to perform at least one of the functions listed above are included in the
scope of this investigation, even if the lawn groomer is designed to perform
additional non-subject functions (e.g., mowing).
All lawn groomers are designed to incorporate a hitch, of any configuration,
which allows the product to be towed behind a vehicle. Lawn groomers that are
designed to incorporate both a hitch and a push handle, of any type, are also
covered by the scope of this investigation. The hitch and handle may be
permanently attached or removable, and they may be attached on opposite sides
or on the same side of the lawn groomer. Lawn groomers designed to incorporate
a hitch, but where the hitch is not attached to the lawn groomer, are also
included in the scope of the investigation.
Lawn sweepers consist of a frame, as well as a series of brushes attached to
an axle or shaft which allows the brushing component to rotate. Lawn sweepers
also include a container (which is a receptacle into which debris swept from
the lawn or turf is deposited) supported by the frame. Aerators consist of a
frame, as well as an aerating component that is attached to an axle or shaft,
which allows the aerating component to rotate. The aerating component is made
up of a set of knives fixed to a plate (known as a plug aerator), a series
of discs with protruding spikes (a spike aerator), or any other
configuration, that are designed to create holes or cavities in a lawn or turf
surface. Dethatchers consist of a frame, as well as a series of tines designed
to remove material (e.g., dead grass or leaves) or other debris from the lawn
or turf. The dethatcher tines are attached to and suspended from the frame.
Lawn spreaders consist of a frame, as well as a hopper (i.e., a container of
any size, shape, or material) that holds a media to be spread on the lawn or
turf. The media can be distributed by means of a rotating spreader plate that
broadcasts the media (broadcast spreader), a rotating agitator that allows
the media to be released at a consistent rate (drop spreader), or any other
configuration.
Lawn dethatchers with a net fully-assembled weight (i.e., without packing,
additional weights, or accessories) of 100 pounds or less are covered by the
scope of the investigation. Other lawn groomers- sweepers, aerators, and
spreaders-with a net fully assembled weight (i.e., without packing, additional
weights, or accessories) of 200 pounds or less are covered by the scope of the
investigation.
Also included in the scope of the investigation are modular units, consisting
of a chassis that is designed to incorporate a hitch, where the hitch may or
may not be included, which allows modules that perform sweeping, aerating,
dethatching, or spreading operations to be interchanged. Modular units-when
imported with one or more lawn grooming modules-with a fully assembled net
weight (i.e., without packing, additional weights, or accessories) of 200
pounds or less when including a single module, are included in the scope of
the investigation. Modular unit chasses, imported without a lawn grooming
module and with a fully assembled net weight (i.e., without packing,
additional weights, or accessories) of 125 pounds or less, are also covered by
the scope of the order. When imported separately, modules that are designed to
perform subject lawn grooming functions (i.e., sweeping, aerating,
dethatching, or spreading), with a fully assembled net weight (i.e., without
packing, additional weights, or accessories) of 75 pounds or less, and that
are imported with or without a hitch, are also covered by the scope.
Lawn groomers, assembled or unassembled, are covered by this investigation.
For purposes of this investigation, unassembled lawn groomers consist of
either 1) all parts necessary to make a fully assembled lawn groomer, or 2)
any combination of parts, constituting a less than complete, unassembled lawn
groomer, with a minimum of two of the following major components-:
1) an assembled or unassembled brush housing designed to be used in a lawn
sweeper, where a brush housing is defined as a component housing the brush
assembly, and consisting of a wrapper which covers the brush assembly and two
end plates attached to the wrapper;
2) a sweeper brush;
3) an aerator or dethatcher weight tray, or similar component designed to
allow weights of any sort to be added to the unit;
4) a spreader hopper;
5) a rotating spreader plate or agitator, or other component designed for
distributing media in a lawn spreader;
6) dethatcher tines;
    7) aerator spikes, plugs, or other aerating component; or
    8) a hitch.
    b. Diamond Sawblades and Parts Thereof   From China and Korea
    All finished circular sawblades, whether slotted or not, with a working part that is comprised of a diamond segment or segments, and parts thereof, regardless of specification or size, except as specifically excluded below. 
    C.         Gray Portland Cement and Cement Clinker from Japan;
    The products covered are cement and cement clinker. Cement is a hydraulic cement and the primary component of concrete. Cement Clinker, an intermediate material produced when manufacturing cement, has no use other than grinding into finished cement.
    d.         Hand Trucks and Certain Parts Thereof From China:
    The product covers hand trucks manufactured from any material, whether assembled or unassembled, complete or incomplete, suitable for any use, and certain parts thereof, namely the vertical frame, the handling area and the projecting edges or toe plate, and any combination thereof.
    e.         Large Newspaper Printing Presses and Components Thereof, Whether Assembled or Unassembled, From Japan:
    The products covered in these investigation are large newspaper printing presses, including press systems, press additions and components, whether assembled or unassembled, whether complete or incomplete, that are capable of printing or otherwise manipulating a roll or paper more than two pages across.
    Further, the following European Commission decisions also support inclusion of parts and components:-
     	f.          Ironing boards:  
The product concerned is ironing boards, whether or not free-standing, with
or without a steam soaking and/or heating top and/or blowing top, including
sleeve boards, and essential parts thereof, i.e. the legs, the top and the
iron rest originating in the People's Republic of China and Ukraine (the
product concerned), normally declared within CN codes ex 3924 90 90, ex 4421
90 98, ex 7323 93 90, ex 7323 99 91, ex 7323 99 99, ex 8516 79 70 and ex 8516
90 00.
There are different types of ironing boards and their essential parts
depending mainly on their construction and size, their construction material
and accessories. However, all different types have the same basic physical
characteristics and uses. Consequently, all existing types are considered as
one product for the purposes of this investigation.
g. Steel tube and pipe fittings:-
EC in the matter of steel tube and pipe fittings kept the scope of the product
under consideration as tube and pipe fittings of iron or steel, which
comprised of elbows, tees, reducers and caps. It is a matter of common
knowledge that elbows, tees, reducers and caps can never be interchangeable.
However, the Investigating Authority has held tube and pipe fittings as one
like product. The DA has dealt with the contentions of the appellants in the
second Final Finding as under:-
18. The investigation has shown that following types of SDH equipment were
either in use or in development during the investigation period. The Authority
considered the arguments of the interested parties on exclusion of some of
these types and holds as follows in this regard:
i. STM-1, 4, 16  There is no dispute that these products are rightly included
within the scope of the product under consideration;
ii. STM-64  The interested parties argued that the petitioner has not offered
STM-64 in commercial volumes. It has also been argued that largest Public
Sector Company operator (BSNL) has not bought STM-64 from the petitioner. The
Authority, however, holds that STM-64 is rightly within the scope of the
product under consideration for the following reasons 
(a) Tejas has produced and sold STM-64 in Indian and overseas markets as was
verified by the Authority through its investigating team; (b) Even if Tejas
has sold some volumes in the export markets, the product type cannot be
excluded, as the fact of like article produced by the domestic industry gets
established (the Authority notes that rule 2(b) read with 2(d) implies that
the domestic industry should have manufactured like article. It is unnecessary
to require that the domestic industry should have sold like article in
domestic market). On the spot verification conducted at the premises of the
petitioner, in fact, showed production of STM-64 in commercial volumes, i.e.,
also for Quiktel.
iii. STM-256  Admittedly, STM-256 was neither imported during the
investigation period nor supplied by the domestic industry. The responding
exporter from China claimed that STM-256 was not deployed in China also (which
means that this was not sold in China as well). The responding exporter also
claimed that deployment of STM-256 in India is not even feasible so far, as
necessary permission for its deployment have not been given by the competent
Govt. of India authority. Investigation conducted at the premises of the
petitioner and foreign producers clearly showed that STM-256 can be described
as the new generation SDH equipment. The investigation has not shown that if
STM-256 was exported by foreign producers, the domestic industry did not offer
STM-256. In fact, the interested parties agreed that technical approvals/
permissions to deploy SDH-256 are not even in place in the country. The
Authority observes that a claim for exclusion of a particular type can not be
entertained unless the same has been exported to India during the relevant
period, as the fact of non supply of like article by the domestic industry
cannot be established unless the type is exported to India and is permitted to
be used in India. The Authority holds that no grounds have been made out
justifying exclusion of STM-256. Moreover, the investigating team was given
access to STM-256 equipment, manufactured by Tejas and available in their
premises in Bangalore. Tejas showed that it has made significant investment
(Rs. ***** crores) so far in development of this product and claimed that the
equipment could be sold only if some party placed an order for the same. No
consumer in India has given any order to the domestic industry for supply of
SDH-256.
iv. Digital Cross Connects  The interested parties repeatedly argued for
exclusion of digital cross connect. The investigation has shown that digital
cross connect are actually the equipment used in telecommunications networks,
that allows lower- level signals to be rearranged and interconnected amongst
higher-level signals. Digital cross connect can be produced in SDH technology
and other technologies. Digital cross connect equipment of SDH technology is
clearly SDH equipment. Record verified by the investigating team establishes
that Digital Cross Connect of SDH technology has been produced and supplied by
the petitioner during the investigation period. The cost and price information
included in the injury information and injury margin assessment includes the
production and sale of digital cross connect of SDH technology. The Authority,
therefore, holds that digital cross connect of SDH technology are rightly
within the scope of the product under consideration. However, since digital
cross connects are produced in other technology as well, it is clarified as a
matter of abundant precaution that digital cross connect of other technologies
are beyond the purview of the product under consideration and present
investigations.
v. SKD/CKD form of SDH equipment  Interested parties largely concede that
SKD/CKD form of SDH is rightly within the scope of the product under
consideration. As is seen from the production process, the product is an
assembly of a number of cards, components, assemblies and sub-assemblies. It
is quite possible that the product is transported in its SKD/CKD form. In
fact, the product is in general invoiced in SKD/CKD form only. The producers
do not raise invoice for fully functional and operational SDH equipment. The
production process from SKD/CKD form is a very insignificant assembly line
operation requiring only screw driver technology. In fact, it is possible (and
in fact is a practice largely adopted) to first produce the complete
equipment, including necessary testing etc. and instead of transporting in a
finished form, it is dispatched after dismantling in a SKD/CKD form. Exports
of such SKD/CKD, thus, tantamount to exports of the product under
consideration itself. In fact, the product has been shipped from China in
SKD/CKD form as well. The Authority, therefore, confirms that the scope of the
product under consideration includes SKD/CKD form of the product.
vi. Assemblies and Sub-assemblies  The verification of the records of various
exporters from China PR and Israel revealed that the Equipment is shipped in
the form of assemblies and sub-assemblies and each of these assemblies and
subassemblies are priced individually. Therefore, the equipment imported as a
unit or in the form of assemblies / sub-assemblies is within the scope of the
product under consideration.
vii. Populated Circuit Boards / Cards  The cards/PCBs are populated as per
the design developed by the manufacturer and thereafter, apart from loading of
software, there is only a need to arrange them in a shelf and adjust them to a
circuit. Since Printed Circuit Boards are propriety of the manufacturer, the
same are within the scope of the product under consideration. It is, however,
clarified that in case PCBs or cards are meant for production/assembly of a
product other than SDH equipment, the same is beyond the scope of the product
under consideration. PCB and cards are within the scope of the product under
consideration only if such PCBs or cards are meant for production of SDH
equipment.
viii. Parts and Components  Interested parties have heavily opposed inclusion
of parts and components within the scope of the product under consideration.
The interested parties have argued, inter-alia, that (i) parts/components are
different products, (ii) parts & components have not been offered by domestic
industry, (iii) production from the stage of parts/components is quite
significant and, in fact, constitutes production, (iv) imposition of anti-
dumping duties on parts/components is inoperable or may even lead to
harassment at the stage of implementation or might lead to demand for
collection of duty even when the same may not be justified. The domestic
industry on the contrary has sought inclusion of parts and components on the
premise that their exclusion will leave a big scope for circumvention. They
have pleaded that imports of components as raw material or inputs must be
distinguished and differentiated with imports of SDH in component form (with
IPR being supplied without customs check/control/clearance). They have further
submitted that the domestic industry is not against imports of components as
inputs. Domestic industry is against import of product in the form of
components, using the same Chinese IPR and then assembling the product in
India as this tantamounts to continued dumping in different form. The
Authority has taken note of the fact that parts and components are not
manufactured by the Domestic Industry, and the domestic industry for parts and
components is not before the Authority. The Authority further notes that parts
and components used in SDH equipment have multiple usages and do not have a
dedicated usage in SDH equipment alone. The Authority, after going into the
details of usage of parts and components, is of the view that including parts
and components, when imported on a standalone basis is going to put the whole
consumer durable industry to hardship.
ix. SDH equipment as part of another equipment - The Authority notes that the
product under consideration eventually forms part of Broadband or Cellular
equipment. It is quite possible to import SDH equipment as part of such
Broadband or Cellular equipment. If the scope of the product under
consideration is not kept to include imports of SDH equipment forming part of
such Broadband or Cellular equipment, the entire process of undertaking
present investigations and proposed measures can be defeated. Further, no
justified grounds have been brought out by any interested party as to why such
import should not be chargeable to duty. The only concern of the interested
party may be that the Customs Port Authorities should not demand anti-dumping
duties on the entire Broadband or Cellular equipment. It is, therefore,
clarified that the scope of the duty shall only be to the extent of the value
of SDH equipment included in such Broadband/Cellular equipment. The scope of
the duty shall not extend to the entire equipment. The importers are expected
to declare and the Customs Port Authorities are expected to apply due
diligence in ascertain/bifurcating the value of SDH equipment.
x. Software  Software is an essential part of the product under consideration
in as much as the equipment is totally non-functional without such software.
Such software can be developed by the producer itself or producer may get the
same developed from other agencies. It is possible to invoice such software
either as part of the equipment or separately. The scope of the product under
consideration rightly includes the software and the Authority confirms the
same.
xi. DWDM  Lot of interested parties have sought exclusion of DWDM. DWDM is
different technology transmission equipment. It is not SDH technology
equipment. Since DWDM is not an SDH technology equipment, the same was beyond
the scope of present investigation and proposed measures. However, in view of
the repeated arguments of the interested parties and their claim of possible
demands of antidumping duties in future by Customs Port Authorities, it is
clarified that DWDM transmission equipment are beyond the scope of product
under consideration.
30\. The appellants argued that the domestic industry has not offered STM-64,
and therefore, it should be excluded from the scope of PUC, as the largest
Public Sector Company (BSNL) has not bought STM-64 from Tejas. We note that
the DA has found that Tejas has produced and sold STM-64 in Indian and
overseas markets including to QuickTel, which is an Egyptian Telecom Company.
The argument of the appellant that Quicktel is nonexistent is without basis as
copies of the purchase order of Quicktel, as well as extracts from media
reports concerning Quicktel were shown to us.
31\. As regards STM256, it has been argued that this product was neither
produced in India nor imported into India from the subject countries during
the period of investigation. This in our view is not material as the
investigation is qua the product, and not the types of the product. We agree
with the counsel for the domestic industry that as long as the product is
imported duty can be imposed on all types of such product provided such type
is in commercial competition with the like article made in India and can cause
injury on its import. STM 256 is a higher version of STM 64. STM256 if offered
at a lower price can substitute for STM64 and cause injury to Tejas qua its
market for STM64 in India. In the case of Kajaria Ceramics Vs. Designated
Authority (supra) this view was supported, para 6.6 of the said judgement is
reproduced below:-
6.6?under the scheme of the imposition of Anti-Dumping Duty, the Designated
Authority is required to determine whether the dumped products caused injury
to the Domestic Industry. In this case it is evident that the products
imported by the appellants can be substituted for the products manufactured by
the Domestic Industries. The imported products viz. 2 x 2
vitrified/porcelain tiles can definitely replace the 1 x 1
vitrified/porcelain tiles manufactured by the Domestic Industry, inasmuch as
the user will prefer to use the dumped low cost imported tiles of a bigger
size to substitute his requirement of tiles of smaller size. The dumped
imports of vitrified/porcelain tiles would be an efficient substitute for the
vitrified/porcelain tiles manufactured by the D.I. A consumer would readily
compromise on the size/pattern of tiles as long as it satisfies his need for
vitrified/porcelain tiles. The products imported by the appellant would
technically substitute the D.I.s product of vitrified/porcelain tiles and
commercially also the product imported would substitute the D.I.s products.
When there is a variety of grades available in vitrified/porcelain tiles, that
would in itself, give a leverage to the consumer to substitute from one
type/size/pattern to another type/size/pattern of vitrified/porcelain tiles.
In technical terms a vitrified/porcelain tile of 1000 x 1000 mm will
equivalent to four vitrified/porcelain tiles of size of 500 x 500 mm but the
price of the 1000 x 1000 mm tiles will not be the price of four tiles of 500 x
500 mm. It would be lesser then the price of the four tiles of smaller size.
Hence technically and commercially the dumped imports of different sizes may
substitute the vitrified/porcelain tiles manufactured by D.I., even though the
D.I. may not manufacture the particular size of tile which is dumped. As held
in the above decision, it is not necessary that tiles of every size or
dimension are imported into India for levy of duty. There may be many types /
sizes / dimensions, which may be manufactured in China and not exported to
India. As long as such types form part of PUC are in commercial competition
with like article and can cause injury to the domestic producer they can be
covered by the scope of levy. The decision in the case of Andhra
Petrochemicals Ltd. Vs. Designated Authority (supra) relied upon by the
appellants is distinguishable on facts. In that case, CESTAT found that the
product under consideration or article, had not been correctly defined, and
that each Acyclic Oxo-alcohol was a separate article, for which separate
dumping and injury was required to be examined. It is in that context that
CESTAT held that an article, which has not been imported, can not be subject
to levy. CESTAT decision in the case of Andhra Petrochemicals Ltd. Vs.
Designated Authority (supra) is not applicable here as in the present case,
STM256 is not a distinct or separate product, but one type of SDH equipment,
that is PUC.
32\. The appellants also contended that Section 12/14 ibid deal with the levy
of duty and valuation of goods imported and not with the parts/components
constituting those goods and therefore levy of anti-dumping duty would fail in
respect of goods not imported (e.g. STM 256) or SDH equipment which came
embedded in the goods imported. In this regard, it is pertinent to note that
duty on STM 256 will be levied only when it is imported and not otherwise and
whenever the same is imported, its value will be determined under the
provisions of Section 14 of Customs Act, 1962 and the Customs Valuation
(Determination of Value of Imported Goods) Rules framed thereunder.
As regard the contention that provision of Sections 12/14 of the Customs Act,
1962 are applicable only with reference to goods imported and therefore, the
levy of anti-dumping duty would fail on PUC when imported as a part embedded
in the goods imported for want of availability of the machinery provisions and
cited the Supreme Court judgement in the case of C.I.T., Bangalore vs. B.C.
Srinivasa Setty [(1981) 2 SCC 460]. In this regard, we note that Section 12
Customs Act, 1962 has no applicability or relevance to the levy of the anti-
dumping duty which is levied in terms of Section 9A of the Customs Tariff Act,
1975. As regards the valuation of goods/items which are imported as
parts/components embedded in some other goods, it is pertinent to mention that
the provisions of Customs Valuation Rules framed under Section 14 of the
Customs Act, 1962 are clearly capable of valuing even such imported goods
which are found lying unclaimed in the middle of nowhere even embedded in
other goods. It is quite possible, nay likely, that when PUC is imported as
part/component embedded in other goods, separate transaction value thereof,
(i.e. of the PUC) will not be available but non-availability of transaction
value does not in the least lead to failure of assessment of value because
Customs Valuation Rules are clearly capable of dealing with such situations.
Thus, an efficacious machinery to assess value of PUC in all sorts of such
situations exists in the form of Customs Valuation Rules and therefore the
ratio of the Supreme Court judgement in the case of C.I.T., Bangalore vs. B.C.
Srinivasa Setty (supra) does not adversely impinge in this case. Thus this
contention of the appellants is not sustainable.
Under Section 9A of the Customs Tariff Act, 1975, the Central Government is
fully empowered to levy the duty in the manner it considers fit. It can
prescribe a method for identifying the product subject to levy. In the instant
notification, the duty is to be applied on the % of CIF Value of Imports, as
is indicated in Column 9 of the Notification. The exporter can declare the
transaction value for the SDH Equipment separately. If such declaration is not
found to be true or the transaction value is simply not available, the Customs
Authorities can/would resort to the Customs Valuation Rules for the item
subject to levy of anti-dumping duty. We do not therefore, find any merit in
the contention of the appellants.
D Other issues:-
33\. The appellants also pleaded that the post decisional hearing was a mere
formality and in violation of the direction of the Tribunal. In this context,
we note that in the original (first) investigations, hearing was held before
one officer and order was passed by another and therefore the matter was
remanded by CESTAT for affording hearing to all the parties. In terms of Rule
6(6) of the Anti-Dumping Rules, what is orally presented before the Designated
Authority is to be taken into consideration only when the same is subsequently
reproduced in writing. We find that the arguments raised in the original
proceedings as well as in the remand proceedings were essentially the same.
None of the appellants brought to our notice any new facts or grounds
presented in the second round which were not presented in the first round. DA
examined all the issues afresh in the light of the submissions made. The
conclusions of DA in the second round on the issue dumping, injury, causal
link between the dumped imports and injury to the domestic industry and other
legal issues raised by the parties have remained unchanged and consequently no
modification of the notification was warranted in the wake of the remand order
of CESTAT. DA having considered the pleas raised before it in the remand
proceedings after granting due opportunity of hearing to all interested
parties passed the impugned second Final Findings. Thus, there has been no
infirmity in the procedure followed by Designated Authority while passing the
second Final Findings.
34\. It was contended by the appellants in the written submissions filed after
conclusion of the hearing that the claim of Tejas regarding production of
prototype is false. We note that the fact that Tejas made prototype is
mentioned in Paragraph 15 of the First Final Findings. We do not find from the
findings, that any objection was raised by the parties as to this factual
aspect. No such objection is found in the appeals filed by the appellants.
Quite to the contrary in the appeal of Huawei, Ground No. E5 reads as under:
Respondent No. 3 was a design and development house, and they undertook
development of design, and prototype of the product, and outsourced the actual
production of the goods, to EMS providers. As the Authority had verified the
production process at the factory of Tejas and in view of the admission of
this fact by Huawei, we are unable to sustain this contention of the
appellants at this stage.
35\. The appellants also raised the contention that rejection of price
undertaking without affording an opportunity to comment on the reasons for
rejection was inconsistent with obligations under Article 8.3. We find that
this aspect has been examined in Paragraph 111-114 and 186 of the First Final
Findings as under:
111. Huawei Technologies has revised its export sales statement a number of
times. The company also pleaded that the systems followed by the company are
different from the PCN system followed by the Authority and argued that the
company would have faced no difficulties in providing export sales information
had the company followed companys internal product coding systems. The
company revised its export sales statement a number of times. As brought out
in the verification report sent to the company, the export sales information
of the company remained un-verified. The Authority is unable to accept the
argument that the product coding system followed by the Authority was too
complicated and prevented the company from providing the desired information.
Indeed, a number of producers in subject countries have participated in the
present investigations and have 69 provided information without expressing the
kind of difficulties expressed by the company. Notwithstanding, the Authority
had clearly stated while informing product coding system to the interested
parties that the exporters were free to modify product coding system or use
their own system, should they find the system proposed by the Authority is
insufficient/ inadequate or cumbersome. In any case, nothing prevented the
exporter from providing information on both the basis  the product coding
system followed by the Authority and product coding system followed by the
company.
112\. The product under consideration is essentially an assembly of a number
of electronic cards and sub-assemblies. In fact, the producers tend to invoice
the sales in terms of SKD/CKD/cards/sub-assemblies of the product.
Investigation has shown that all the companies follow some system for design
and development of the product, for which some product coding system is
followed. It is noted that the export sales information has been so
drastically revised by the company that even sub-assemblies/cards composition
has also been altered in different responses.
113\. As per response filed with the Authority, they had claimed to have
exported *** PCN Variants to India during POI, comprising of *** Nos. Out of
these *** PCNs were cards. No quantity had been mentioned in respect of these
*** PCNs and therefore these were excluded for the purpose of determination
of NEP for preliminary determination. These PCNs were basically extracted
from POs executed with different customers in India. Although the Authority
gave necessary opportunity to them to get their data verified during
verification visit, the PCN details claimed by them could not be verified as
there appeared mismatch in subfields identified against each PCN as per the
nomenclature prescribed by the Authority. This was pointed out to them in the
verification report. In response to the verification report, they submitted
the updated PCN details, claiming to have corrected the anomaly and sought
acceptance of the same for determination of NEP. According to this they had
exported *** sets / nos. of *** different PCN variants to India during POI.
That apart they also claimed to have exported a few more PCNs against loan
contract to Prithvi etc. against which they had failed to provide proper
accounting during verification.
114\. Considering the above, the Authority holds that claim on export sales to
India remained unverified in spite of reasonable and adequate opportunity
having been provided to them. The Authority is therefore unable to determine
individual Export Price and NEP for determination of either individual DM or
Injury Margin in respect of the subject producer exporter.
.
186\. The Authority also takes note of the submissions made by Huawei
Technologies, proposing a price undertaking and seeking information on export
price, normal value, dumping and injury margins so as to enable them to submit
a suitable undertaking. The Authority notes that the details about non-
determination of export price in respect of the subject exporter have already
been explained in the disclosure statement as well as in these findings.
Consequently it has also not been possible for the Authority to determine the
individual DM and IM for the subject exporter. Moreover, the product under
consideration is not a simple homogeneous product but a complex one with a
number of variants. Therefore the Authority holds that such an undertaking,
proposed by them is impractical; Rule 15(3)) refers. Given such non-
cooperation on the part of Huawei as recorded by Designated Authority, it
cannot be faulted for rejecting the undertaking.
36\. As regards the contention that market economy treatment was wrongly
denied to Alcatel  Lucent Shanghai Bell Co. Ltd and normal value was
incorrectly determined. We find that DA has dealt with this aspect in
Paragraph 93 of the findings: -
93. The Authority notes that, the company, during the course of verification
submitted that the decision making is not affected or influenced by the
government nominees on the Board. However the Authority also notes that the
company has, since inception, significant Govt. presence through share
holdings by State departments. Over a period of time, the govt. shareholding
pattern remained ***% being Government Owned. Presently, the board of
directors also has ***% (*** nominees) nominees of State departments including
the *** having a casting vote. In view of the above, with this significant
state participation, the state interference cannot be ruled out and therefore
the Authority holds that the Company cannot be granted market economy status.
No new material has been brought on record to dislodge the above findings of
Designated Authority and therefore we do not find any unreasonableness in the
findings on this aspect and the Authority was not irrational not to adopt the
information provided by ECI China for determination of normal value of
Alcatel-Lucent because if this information was taken into consideration, it
would/may incentivise exporters not to reply to the questionnaire, if they
consider that the information provided by other investigated producer or
exporter would yield a more advantageous result. Paragraph 7 of Annexure I to
the Rules provides that where market economy status is not granted to a firm,
normal value can be determined on any other reasonable basis. The contention
of Alcatel  Lucent is therefore not well founded and the Authority was
justified in determining the normal value based on facts available.
37\. It was argued that inclusion of software and SDH Equipment fitted with
cellular equipment on the ground of circumvention was not correct since the
Rules concerning circumvention were brought into force only in 2012. We find
that Rules 25 to 28 of the Rules, which came into effect from 19.01.2012 deal
with circumvention of anti-dumping duty. However, nothing can be read in these
Rules to mean that Designated Authority should not levy the duty in a manner
so as to ensure that it is not circumvented. After all, when duty is levied by
Central Govt., it has to ensure that the same is effective in counteracting
the injurious effects of dumping which implies that Designated Authority
should ensure that the levy of duty is not amenable to unintended
circumvention. The above said Rules 25 to 28 regarding circumvention only deal
with situations where circumvention is found to be taking place and provide
mechanism to identify, investigate and determine circumvention and review
thereof and do not imply that the Designated Authority is debarred from so
recommending the levy as to avoid circumvention as far as possible plugging
the possible/obvious loopholes which can lead to circumvention.
38\. According to the appellants, the notification is liable to be set aside
on the ground of vagueness and they argued that the expression like for SDH
application only is too vague to be acceptable in a taxing statute or
exemption notification. We are unable to agree with this contention because
expression for SDH application only is quite comprehensible and there is
nothing too esoteric about it. In our view there is nothing so vague or
incomprehensible about expressions like for SDH application only as to make
it impossible or impractical to implement the anti-dumping notification.
39\. The appellants also argued that software downloaded electronically cannot
be subjected to anti-dumping duty due to absence of mechanism to levy and
collect duty as has been held by CESTAT in the case of Oracle India Pvt. Ltd.
& Others Vs. C.C.(Export), New Delhi. (supra). We agree with the contention
and find it pertinent to add that as no duty can be levied and collected on
such downloads (as has been held by CESTAT in the case of Oracle India Pvt.
Ltd.), the appellants can have no grievance on that count.
40\. In view of the analysis above, we do not find any such infirmity in the
final findings of the Designated Authority as to invite appellate
intervention. The appeals are dismissed.
(Pronounced in the Open Court on 24.02.2016) (Justice G. Raghuram) President
(S.K. Mohanty) Member (Judicial) (R.K. Singh) Member (Technical) SSK -15-
38\. According to the appellants, the notification is liable to be set aside
on the ground of vagueness and they argued that the expression like for SDH
application only is too vague to be acceptable in a taxing statute or
exemption notification. We are unable to agree with this contention because
expression for SDH application only is quite comprehensible and there is
nothing too esoteric about it. In our view there is nothing so vague or
incomprehensible about expressions like for SDH application only as to make
it impossible or impractical to implement the anti-dumping notification.
39\. The appellants also argued that software downloaded electronically cannot
be subjected to anti-dumping duty due to absence of mechanism to levy and
collect duty as has been held by CESTAT in the case of Oracle India Pvt. Ltd.
& Others Vs. C.C.(Export), New Delhi. (supra). We agree with the contention
and find it pertinent to add that as no duty can be levied and collected on
such downloads (as has been held by CESTAT in the case of Oracle India Pvt.
Ltd.), the appellants can have no grievance on that count.
40\. In view of the analysis above, we do not find any such infirmity in the
    Whether Lordships wish to see the fair copy of the order?
    Seen
    4.
    Whether order is to be circulated to the Department Authorities?
    Yes
    Application Nos.AD/MISC/51252 & 51908/2015]
    Appeal No.AD/13/2012
    [Arising out of Final Findings dated 19.10.2010 and 10.02.2012 issued by Designated Authority]
    M/s. Huawei Technologies Co. Ltd.		Appellant
    Vs.
    Designated Authority	
    Directorate General of 
    Anti Dumping and Allied Duties			Respondent
    Application Nos.AD/STAY/966, 987 & 988/2011
    Appeal Nos.AD/5  7 & 18/2011
    [Arising out of Final Findings dated 19.10.2010 and 10.02.2012 issued by Designated Authority]
    M/s. U.T. Starcom Inc.
    M/s. TATA Teleservices Ltd.
    M/s. Idea Cellular Ltd.
    M/s. Alcatel-Lucent Sahnghai Bell Ltd.		Appellant
38\. According to the appellants, the notification is liable to be set aside
on the ground of vagueness and they argued that the expression like for SDH
application only is too vague to be acceptable in a taxing statute or
exemption notification. We are unable to agree with this contention because
expression for SDH application only is quite comprehensible and there is
nothing too esoteric about it. In our view there is nothing so vague or
incomprehensible about expressions like for SDH application only as to make
it impossible or impractical to implement the anti-dumping notification.
39\. The appellants also argued that software downloaded electronically cannot
be subjected to anti-dumping duty due to absence of mechanism to levy and
collect duty as has been held by CESTAT in the case of Oracle India Pvt. Ltd.
& Others Vs. C.C.(Export), New Delhi. (supra). We agree with the contention
and find it pertinent to add that as no duty can be levied and collected on
such downloads (as has been held by CESTAT in the case of Oracle India Pvt.
Ltd.), the appellants can have no grievance on that count.
40\. In view of the analysis above, we do not find any such infirmity in the
    Whether Lordships wish to see the fair copy of the order?
    Seen
    4.
    Whether order is to be circulated to the Department Authorities?
    Yes
    Application Nos.AD/MISC/51252 & 51908/2015]
    Appeal No.AD/13/2012
    [Arising out of Final Findings dated 19.10.2010 and 10.02.2012 issued by Designated Authority]
    M/s. Huawei Technologies Co. Ltd.		Appellant
    Vs.
    Designated Authority	
    Directorate General of 
    Anti Dumping and Allied Duties			Respondent
    Application Nos.AD/STAY/966, 987 & 988/2011
    Appeal Nos.AD/5  7 & 18/2011
    [Arising out of Final Findings dated 19.10.2010 and 10.02.2012 issued by Designated Authority]
    M/s. U.T. Starcom Inc.
    M/s. TATA Teleservices Ltd.
    M/s. Idea Cellular Ltd.
    M/s. Alcatel-Lucent Sahnghai Bell Ltd.		Appellant
38\. According to the appellants, the notification is liable to be set aside
on the ground of vagueness and they argued that the expression like for SDH
application only is too vague to be acceptable in a taxing statute or
exemption notification. We are unable to agree with this contention because
expression for SDH application only is quite comprehensible and there is
nothing too esoteric about it. In our view there is nothing so vague or
incomprehensible about expressions like for SDH application only as to make
it impossible or impractical to implement the anti-dumping notification.
39\. The appellants also argued that software downloaded electronically cannot
be subjected to anti-dumping duty due to absence of mechanism to levy and
collect duty as has been held by CESTAT in the case of Oracle India Pvt. Ltd.
& Others Vs. C.C.(Export), New Delhi. (supra). We agree with the contention
and find it pertinent to add that as no duty can be levied and collected on
such downloads (as has been held by CESTAT in the case of Oracle India Pvt.
Ltd.), the appellants can have no grievance on that count.
40\. In view of the analysis above, we do not find any such infirmity in the
    Whether Lordships wish to see the fair copy of the order?
    Seen
    4.
    Whether order is to be circulated to the Department Authorities?
    Yes
    Application Nos.AD/MISC/51252 & 51908/2015]
    Appeal No.AD/13/2012
    [Arising out of Final Findings dated 19.10.2010 and 10.02.2012 issued by Designated Authority]
    M/s. Huawei Technologies Co. Ltd.		Appellant
    Vs.
    Designated Authority	
    Directorate General of 
    Anti Dumping and Allied Duties			Respondent
    Application Nos.AD/STAY/966, 987 & 988/2011
    Appeal Nos.AD/5  7 & 18/2011
    [Arising out of Final Findings dated 19.10.2010 and 10.02.2012 issued by Designated Authority]
    M/s. U.T. Starcom Inc.
    M/s. TATA Teleservices Ltd.
    M/s. Idea Cellular Ltd.
    M/s. Alcatel-Lucent Sahnghai Bell Ltd.		Appellant
    Vs.
    Designated Authority	
    Directorate General of 
    Anti Dumping and Allied Duties			Respondent
    Appearance
    Mr. Balbir Singh,  Sr. Advocate
    Mr. Gopan Jain, Sr. Advocate
    Mr. Sanjiv Goel, Advocate
    Ms. Jaya Bharuka, Advocate
    Ms. Rita Jha, Advocate
    Mr. A Mathews, Advocate		
38\. According to the appellants, the notification is liable to be set aside
on the ground of vagueness and they argued that the expression like for SDH
application only is too vague to be acceptable in a taxing statute or
exemption notification. We are unable to agree with this contention because
expression for SDH application only is quite comprehensible and there is
nothing too esoteric about it. In our view there is nothing so vague or
incomprehensible about expressions like for SDH application only as to make
it impossible or impractical to implement the anti-dumping notification.
39\. The appellants also argued that software downloaded electronically cannot
be subjected to anti-dumping duty due to absence of mechanism to levy and
collect duty as has been held by CESTAT in the case of Oracle India Pvt. Ltd.
& Others Vs. C.C.(Export), New Delhi. (supra). We agree with the contention
and find it pertinent to add that as no duty can be levied and collected on
such downloads (as has been held by CESTAT in the case of Oracle India Pvt.
Ltd.), the appellants can have no grievance on that count.
40\. In view of the analysis above, we do not find any such infirmity in the
    Whether Lordships wish to see the fair copy of the order?
    Seen
    4.
    Whether order is to be circulated to the Department Authorities?
    Yes
    Application Nos.AD/MISC/51252 & 51908/2015]
    Appeal No.AD/13/2012
    [Arising out of Final Findings dated 19.10.2010 and 10.02.2012 issued by Designated Authority]
    M/s. Huawei Technologies Co. Ltd.		Appellant
    Vs.
    Designated Authority	
    Directorate General of 
    Anti Dumping and Allied Duties			Respondent
    Application Nos.AD/STAY/966, 987 & 988/2011
    Appeal Nos.AD/5  7 & 18/2011
    [Arising out of Final Findings dated 19.10.2010 and 10.02.2012 issued by Designated Authority]
    M/s. U.T. Starcom Inc.
    M/s. TATA Teleservices Ltd.
    M/s. Idea Cellular Ltd.
    M/s. Alcatel-Lucent Sahnghai Bell Ltd.		Appellant
    Vs.
    Designated Authority	
    Directorate General of 
    Anti Dumping and Allied Duties			Respondent
    Appearance
    Mr. Balbir Singh,  Sr. Advocate
    Mr. Gopan Jain, Sr. Advocate
    Mr. Sanjiv Goel, Advocate
    Ms. Jaya Bharuka, Advocate
    Ms. Rita Jha, Advocate
    Mr. A Mathews, Advocate		
38\. According to the appellants, the notification is liable to be set aside
on the ground of vagueness and they argued that the expression like for SDH
application only is too vague to be acceptable in a taxing statute or
exemption notification. We are unable to agree with this contention because
expression for SDH application only is quite comprehensible and there is
nothing too esoteric about it. In our view there is nothing so vague or
incomprehensible about expressions like for SDH application only as to make
it impossible or impractical to implement the anti-dumping notification.
39\. The appellants also argued that software downloaded electronically cannot
be subjected to anti-dumping duty due to absence of mechanism to levy and
collect duty as has been held by CESTAT in the case of Oracle India Pvt. Ltd.
& Others Vs. C.C.(Export), New Delhi. (supra). We agree with the contention
and find it pertinent to add that as no duty can be levied and collected on
such downloads (as has been held by CESTAT in the case of Oracle India Pvt.
Ltd.), the appellants can have no grievance on that count.
40\. In view of the analysis above, we do not find any such infirmity in the
