Gujarat High Court
Mafatlal Industries Ltd. vs Gujarat Gas Co. Ltd. And Ors. on 24 October, 1997
Equivalent citations: 1999 97 CompCas 301 Guj, (1998) 2 GLR 1436
Author: M Shah
Bench: M Shah
JUDGMENT M. S. Shah, J.
1\. This appeal is filed by the original plaintiff against the interlocutory
order dated September 11, 1997, passed by the City Civil Court, Ahmedabad,
rejecting the notice of motion filed by the appellant-plaintiff in Civil Suit
No. 3533 of 1997.
In a nutshell :
The subject-matter of the present suit is transfer of 3,81,000 equity shares
in defendant No. 1 - a public limited company - Gujarat Gas Company Limited
(hereinafter referred to as "the company" or as "Gujarat Gas") engaged in the
supply and distribution of natural gas to domestic and industrial consumers in
the State of Gujarat.
2\. The appellant-plaintiff, which is a company engaged in manufacturing
textiles and chemicals, is a shareholder in Gujarat Gas with 49,95,325 shares
amounting to about 39 per cent. of the shareholding. In all 5,00,000 shares
amounting to 3.87 per cent. of the total equity capital were sold by the
special forum in the Company Law Board for remedies as provided in section
111A of the Companies Act in respect of all the special rights and obligations
flowing from one provisions of the Companies Act.
(VI) In view of the aforesaid finding on issue V, this court has not examined
the merits of the contentions for injunction to restrain defendant No.
1-company from registering the transfer of shares.
79\. Before parting with the matter, this court would like to place on record
the valuable assistance rendered by S. B. Vakil, for the appellant as well as
Mr. Shelat for the respondent on interesting questions of law which are bound
to assume much more importance in the days to come.
Order :
In the result the appeal deserves to be dismissed and is hereby dismissed. In
the facts and circumstances of the case, there shall be no orders as to costs.
80\. As the appeal is dismissed, the stay applicatio is also dismissed. Ad
interim relief granted earlier stands vacated.
81\. At this stage, Mr. Vakil learned counsel for the appellant prays that the
amounting to 3.87 per cent. of the total equity capital were sold by the
plaintiff to defendant No. 2, a foreign institutional investor (FII), in
October, 1993, and the said transfer was registered by the company in
December, 1993. Defendant No. 2 (through defendant No. 8 also an FII),
thereafter, sold 5,89,000 shares to defendants Nos. 6 and 7 (also FIIs)
between March and November, 1996, and defendant No. 2 sold 1,19,000 shares to
the plaintiff in June, 1997. Claiming a right of pre-emption, the plaintiff
has filed the present suit for a decree against defendant No. 2 (FII) to
execute transfer forms in respect of the suit shares (i.e., 3,81,000 shares),
at the price at which defendants Nos. 2 and 8 executed transfer forms in
favour of defendants Nos. 6 and 7 and in the alternative the plaintiff has
prayed for a decree of Rs. 5.25 crores by way of damages in lieu of specific
performance against defendant No. 2.
3\. The plaintiff has taken out the present notice of motion for an interim
injunction to restrain defendant No. 2 from alienating, encumbering, dealing
with or creating any third party rights or selling 3,81,000 shares to any
person and also to restrain defendant No. 1 (i.e., Gujarat Gas) from
registering the transfer of 3,81,000 shares or any party thereof in favour of
any person and has also prayed for appointment of a receiver to take
possession of the share certificates and transfer forms of the suit shares,
pending the hearing and final disposal of the suit. The trial court has
dismissed the notice of motion. Hence, this appeal by the plaintiff.
4\. Before narrating the contentions urged by learned counsel for the parties,
it is necessary to refer to the relevant dates and events in chronological
order in order to appreciate the controversy between the parties.
Facts :
In 1980, Gujarat Gas was jointly promoted by the plaintiff and defendant No. 4
- Gujarat Industrial Investment Corporation - GIIC which is a Government of
Gujarat undertaking. The authorised share capital of Gujarat Gas is
1,28,25,000 equity shares of Rs. 10 each. As per clause 2.20 of the
shareholders' agreement between the said promoters executed on April 23, 1991,
so long as the GIIC holds 5 per cent. of the paid-up equity share capital of
the company, the plaintiff can reduce its shareholding only with the prior
written consent of the GIIC and to such persons, companies or institutions as
are acceptable to the GIIC, provided that before offering the shares to any
other person, the plaintiff shall offer the shares to the GIIC and in case of
acceptance of the offer by the GIIC, the price of the shares shall be
determined as per the formula provided in the agreement. Liberty was, however,
reserved to the plaintiff to sell and/or to transfer the shares to any of its
subsidiaries or any member of the plaintiff group under intimation to the GIIC
and such transferees would also be bound to abide by the shareholders'
agreement.
5\. Article 33 of the articles of association of the company provides :
".... No transfer of shares shall be registered in violation of the
shareholders' agreement dated April 23, 1991, between the GIIC and MIL
(plaintiff) so long as the said agreement subsists."
6\. Of course, there was an absolute prohibition against transfer of shares
during the gestation period. There is no dispute about the fact that the
gestation period is already over. Thereafter, the company changed its name to
the present name.
7\. In view of article 2.20 of the shareholders' agreement, the plaintiff
could reduce its shareholding in the company only with prior written consent
of the GIIC and, therefore, the plaintiff wrote a letter dated September 27,
1993 (page 165) to the GIIC stating that the plaintiff was desirous of
disposing of up to 38,50,000 shares out of the total of 49,95,325 held by the
plaintiff and, therefore, in view of the terms of the shareholders' agreement,
the plaintiff was offering the shares to the GIIC for the first purchase and
that in the event of the GIIC declining to take up shares, the plaintiff would
offer the shares to HDEC/HDFC and its associates or to any other interested
party at a negotiated price not lower than the price determined under the
formula prescribed by the shareholders' agreement. The plaintiff also
mentioned that in the event of the shares being offered to HDEC and its
associates, a fresh shareholders' agreement would be drawn up between the
purchaser, the plaintiff and the GIIC.
8\. The GIIC did not immediately respond to the aforesaid request, and some
time in October, 1993, the plaintiff sold 5,00,000 shares to defendant No. 2
(Jardine Fleming India Pacific Trust, an FII) at the rate of Rs. 119.45.
Defendant No. 2 entered into the said transaction through defendant No. 8
(Fledgeling Nominees International Ltd., another FII). The company (defendant
No. 1) registered in December, 1993, transfer of the said 5,00,000 shares in
favour of defendant No. 8 a/c. defendant No. 2, i.e., "Fledgeling Nominees
International Limited Account Jardine Fleming India Pacific Trust".
9\. Thereafter, the GIIC sent its reply dated March 7, 1994 (page 162) to the
plaintiff. While granting approval to the plaintiff's proposal for sale of its
shares as contained in the aforesaid letter of September 27, 1993, the GIIC
imposed the following condition :
"If and when the new partners disinvest their holding in GGCL (Gujarat Gas),
they should make the offer to GIIC, which will have the first right to
refusal. Even if GIIC refuses to acquire the shares so offered, disinvestment
in favour of another party can be done only with the prior approval of GIIC."
10\. After the aforesaid letter of the GIIC imposing the above condition, a
letter dated March 16, 1994 (page 90) was written by Khanna Securities Pvt.
Ltd. (a wholly owned subsidiary of Jardine Fleming India Securities Pvt.
Ltd.), to the plaintiff and the letter reads as under :
"Dear Sirs, This has reference to the 5,00,000 shares of Gujarat Gas Limited
sold by you to Jardine Fleming India Pacific Trust. They have confirmed that
in the event of their wanting to sell these shares, the first refusal will be
given to Mafatlal Industries Limited at the market rate prevailing at the time
or at any offer price that they might be having at the time.
Thanking you, Yours faithfully, For Khanna Securities Pvt. Ltd.
(Sd.) Rafiq Dossani, Director-Broking."
11\. The GIIC sent a letter dated August 26, 1994 (paged 133), to the managing
director of Jardine Fleming India Securities Pvt. Ltd., that Jardine Fleming
India Securities Pvt. Ltd. has invested in 3.89 per cent. of the total equity
capital of Gujarat Gas as nominees of the plaintiff and that being a nominee
of the plaintiff Jardine Fleming India Securities Pvt. Ltd., was requested to
abide by the terms and conditions of the shareholders' agreement between the
GIIC and the plaintiff signed on April 23, 1991, and that in order to complete
these formalities, a draft of the nominee shareholders agreement was enclosed;
on finalisation of this draft, the nominee shareholders agreement would be
signed by the GIIC, the plaintiff and Jardine Fleming India Securities Pvt.
Ltd. In view of the above, Jardine Fleming India Limited, having their office
at the same premises where Jardine Fleming India Securities Pvt. Ltd., has its
office, sent its letter dated September 9, 1994 (page 134), to the company
(Gujarat Gas - defendant No. 1) which reads as under :
"To, Gujarat Gas Company Limited, 2-C Embassy Apartments, Opp. Vandana School,
Ahmedabad-380 015.
Dear Sir, We have received the enclosed letter reference No. GIIC/SEC/MD/3636,
dated August 26, 1994, from Gujarat Industrial Investment Corporation Limited.
We would like to inform you that as a representative of Fledgeling Nominees
International Limited in India, we are writing on their behalf to say that we
have not entered into any nominee agreement with Mafatlal Industries Limited.
Therefore, unless you revert with a clarification on the purpose of the
enclosed letter, we do not intend to reply to the same.
Thanking you, Yours faithfully, For Jardine Fleming India Limited, (Sd.) Dr.
Rafiq Dossani."
12\. On October 17, 1994 (page 155), the plaintiff sent a letter to the GIIC
stating that the circumstances under which the plaintiff had sought to encash
a part of their holding in Gujarat Gas in order to meet certain pressing
obligations on the plaintiff's cash flow were explained by the plaintiff to
the GIIC at various meetings. There was a protracted delay in replying to the
plaintiff's proposal for approval for partial disinvestment and hence the
plaintiff had no choice but to make alternative arrangements. The plaintiff
further informed the GIIC under the said letter that the conditions stipulated
by the GIIC as per their communication dated March 7, 1994 (page 162), were
found unacceptable to Indian institutional investors. Therefore, the plaintiff
was unable to proceed with their proposal and had only made a small
disinvestment of 5,00,000 shares amounting to 3.87 per cent. in favour an FII
and that the plaintiff has an undertaking from Jardine Fleming India
Securities Pvt. Ltd., that if and when they seek to sell the shares, they
would offer the first right of refusal to the plaintiff and that the plaintiff
would be in a position to strictly observe the terms of the shareholders'
agreement regarding the right of first refusal. The plaintiff further
clarified that Jardine Fleming India Securities Pvt. Ltd. had purchased the
shares as an FII and that they were not in the position of nominee
shareholders who are contributing any part of the promoter's capital, but they
are basically secondary investors.
13\. It appears that nothing noteworthy happened between October, 1994, and
March, 1996. But on March 27, 1996, defendant No. 2 sold 50,000 of the
aforesaid shares in the open market at Rs. 148.50 per share. Thereafter in
September, October and by. November 6, 1996, defendants Nos. 2 and 6 sold in
all 5,89,000 shares to defendants Nos. 6 and 7, who are also FIIs at rates
ranging between Rs. 133.65 and Rs. 118.80. The share transfer forms with the
share certificates were lodged by defendant No. 3, through whom the aforesaid
transaction was effected, with defendant No. 1 (i.e., Gujarat Gas) including
4,50,000 shares out of the total 5,00,000 shares purchased by defendant No. 2
from the plaintiff. The aforesaid share transfer forms were lodged by
defendant No. 3 acting as a constituted attorney of defendants Nos. 6 and 7 on
the strength of a power of attorney given by defendant No. 5 which stated that
defendant No. 5 had been authorised by defendants Nos. 6 and 7 to make
investment in Indian stocks and shares.
14\. Having come to know about the aforesaid transfer, the plaintiff sent a
letter dated November 13, 1996 (page 97), to the company - Gujarat Gas stating
that in 1993, the plaintiff had sold 5,00,000 shares to defendant No. 2 and
that there was a clear understanding that the plaintiff will have a right of
pre-emption on those shares; the plaintiff was surprised to know that out of
the said 5,00,000 shares, 1,90,000 shares were purportedly lodged for transfer
by defendant No. 2 in favour of defendant No. 6. The plaintiff, therefore,
protested that the purported transfer of the aforesaid shares was in breach of
the undertaking given by Jardine Fleming India Pacific Trust through their
representatives, Khanna Securities Pvt. Ltd., and in breach of the provisions
of the articles of association. The plaintiff, thus, lodged their objection
before the company (Gujarat Gas) against the transfer of shares in the name of
defendant No. 6. The plaintiff also addressed a letter dated November 26,
1996, to Khanna Securities Ltd., referring to the letter dated March 16, 1994,
and its contents and making a grievance about the breach of the agreement for
the right of first refusal by transfer of shares by defendant No. 2 to
defendants Nos. 6 and 7. Mr. Ted Pulling of Jardine Fleming Investment
Management Ltd., sent his reply on December 10, 1996, by fax in the following
terms :
To Fax : 9122 202 7750 Mafatlal Industries, Mumbai.
R. R. Amin From Ted Pulling, Date : 10 December, 1996, Jardine Fleming Invt.
Mgmt.
Subject : Gujarat Gas No. of page(s) : 1
P. R. Amin In reference to your fax of 26, November, I must profess ignorance
of this agreement, I note that your fax was addressed to Rafiq Dossani who no
longer work for JF in India, nor indeed was he ever employed by the fund
management division. That would explain why I was not apprised of this
agreement.
As you can see, the shares were sold to another FII, so I trust this
transaction has no effect on your overall shareholding structure.
Sincerely, (Sd.) Ted Pulling.
15\. It is required to be noted that in June, 1997, defendant No. 2 sold
1,19,000 shares in Gujarat Gas to the plaintiff at Rs. 177 per share. The
plaintiff again wrote to defendant No. 2 on June 18, 1997 (page 107), and June
19, 1997 (page 109), stating that the plaintiff was still entitled to get
3,81,000 shares from defendant No. 2. By this time British Gas Asia Pacific
Holding Pvt. Ltd. had already made an entry into the market and appears to
have offered to purchase shares in defendant No. 1-company (Gujarat Gas) at
Rs. 270 per share. Hence, the plaintiff sent letter dated July 18, 1997 (page
111), reiterating the above stand and demanding compensation from defendant
No. 2 at the rate of Rs. 130 per share (i.e., Rs. 270 per share of Gujarat Gas
as offered by British Gas Asia Pacific Holding Pvt. Ltd., less Rs. 132 at
which price defendant No. 2 had sold some of the shares to defendants Nos. 6
and 7 in November, 1996). The plaintiff thus demanded a sum of Rs. 5,25,78,000
with 21 per cent. interest from defendant No. 2 on account of breach of the
agreement to offer 3,81,000 shares. The plaintiff also wrote a similar letter
dated December 10, 1996 (page 98), to defendant No. 2 protesting against
violation of the understanding and agreement that defendant No. 2 will not,
sell the 5,00,000 shares purchased from the plaintiff without first offering
the same to the plaintiff and that the understanding and the agreement was
confirmed in writing by Mr. Rafiq Dossani, but the undertaking and the
agreement was being breached by purported sale of the shares by defendant No.
2 to defendant No. 6 and others.
16\. The suit and trial court order on notice of motion.
17\. On not getting a positive reply from defendant No. 2, the plaintiff filed
the present suit on August 4, 1997, praying for the aforesaid reliefs (para. 2
above) which are basically in the nature of relief for specific performance of
the agreement referred to in the letter dated March 16, 1994. As stated in
para. 2 above, the plaintiff also filed the present notice of motion, inter
alia, to restrain defendant No. 1 - (Gujarat Gas Company Ltd.), from
registering the transfer of 3,81,000 shares and also to restrain defendant No.
2 from transferring or selling the said 3,81,000 shares to any person pending
the hearing and final disposal of the suit. On August 5, 1997, the city civil
court issued notice and granted ex parte injunction in terms of the aforesaid
prayers. After hearing the parties, the city civil court rejected the notice
of motion and vacated the said ex parte order on the following grounds :
(i) The civil court's jurisdiction is barred. The present civil suit would not
lie in view of the judgment of the Supreme Court in Canara Bank v. Nuclear
Power Corporation of India Ltd. [1995] 84 Comp Cas 70; [1995] 3 JT 42.
(ii) The plaintiffs have failed to make out a prima facie case that the suit
shares are not freely transferable. Defendant No. 1-company being a public
company, the articles of association cannot put any restriction on
transferability of shares. Reference is also made to the provisions of section
111A of the Companies Act.
(iii) Defendant No. 2 had never agreed to be the nominee of the plaintiffs.
(iv) The plaintiffs have prima facie failed to establish that the writing
executed by Khanna Securities Pvt. Ltd., is an undertaking on behalf of
defendant No. 2, so as to bind defendant No. 2. The letter dated March 16,
1994, of Khanna Securities Pvt. Ltd., does not disclose as to whether the
author of the letter was authorised to give commitment about pre-emption
rights. Khanna Securities Pvt. Ltd. is not a subsidiary of defendant No. 2 but
a subsidiary of another company called Jardine Fleming India Securities Pvt.
Ltd.
(v) Considering the conduct of the plaintiff, till the filing of the suit, it
appears that the plaintiff was not bona fide interested in the purchase of
shares.
18\. It is the aforesaid order of the trial court rejecting the notice of
motion which is challenged in the present appeal. With the consent of learned
counsel for the appellant, and learned counsel for the contesting defendants
on caveat, the appeal was heard for final disposal.
19\. Broad submission on behalf of appellant-plaintiff.
20\. Mr. Vakil for the appellant-plaintiff assailed the order of the trial
court and prayed for interim injunction pending disposal of the suit on the
following grounds :
(i) Defendant No. 2 had agreed at the time of purchase of 5,00,000 shares from
the plaintiff in October, 1993, that whenever defendant No. 2 will sell the
shares, it will give first right of refusal to the plaintiff. That agreement
was also confirmed by Khanna Securities Pvt. Ltd., through Dr. Rafiq Dossani
on behalf of defendant No. 2. Jardine Fleming India Pacific Trust (defendant
No. 2) and Jardine Fleming India Securities Pvt. Ltd. (of which Khanna
Securities Pvt. Ltd., is admittedly a wholly owned subsidiary), Jardine
Fleming Investment Management Ltd., Jardine Fleming Holdings Ltd., are all
part of the Jardine Fleming group and, therefore, the trial court had erred in
not relying upon the letter dated March 16, 1994, of Khanna Securities Pvt.
Ltd. It is known that group companies having their registered offices at the
same address very often operate through their sister concerns and in
commercial transactions like this, it is but natural that the plaintiff would
act on the basis of such a commitment given on behalf of Jardine Fleming group
companies. A distinction between sardine Fleming India Pacific Trust and
Jardine Fleming India Securities Pvt. Ltd., cannot be made the decisive factor
at the time of considering a prima facie case in the suit for the purpose of
equitable relief of injunction.
(ii) The plaintiff has a right to have its pre-emption right enforced in the
present suit filed before the civil court and such right is de hors the
provisions of the Companies Act, and, therefore, the Company Law Board
established by the Companies Act cannot have exclusive jurisdiction to decide
such a dispute about the right of pre-emption.
(iii) Irrespective of the merits of the plaintiff's case on the basis of the
right of pre-emption, the plaintiff was entitled to get an injunction to
restrain defendant No. 1-company - Gujarat Gas from registering the transfer
of 3,81,000 shares purported to have been transferred by defendants Nos. 2 and
8 to defendants Nos. 6 and 7 on the following grounds :
(a) The transfer forms lodged by defendants Nos. 2 and 8 through defendant No.
3 do not include all the material particulars as required by the provisions of
section 108 of the Companies Act.
(b) The transfer forms are lodged by defendant No. 3 without any authority
from defendants Nos. 6 and 7. All that defendant No. 3 has produced is an
authority given by defendant No. 5 stating that defendant No. 5 has authority
from defendants Nos. 6 and 7 but no such authority given by defendants Nos. 6
and 7 in favour of defendant No. 5 is lodged along with the transfer forms.
(c) Defendants Nos. 6 and 7 are limited partnerships and they cannot be
members of companies other than companies established under section 25 of the
Companies Act. Hence, the purported transfer of shares in defendant No.
1-company in favour of defendants Nos. 6 and 7 is illegal.
(iv) The suit under section 9 of the Code of Civil Procedure is competent not
merely for enforcement of the right of pre-emption but also for seeking a
permanent or temporary injunction to restrain the company from registering the
transfer of shares. Reliance is placed on the decision of the Supreme Court in
Public Passenger Service Ltd. v. M. A Khadar [1966] 36 Comp Cas 1; AIR 1966 SC
489.
(v) The plaintiff by its conduct is not disentitied to get this injunction on
the ground of delay, laches or acquiescence.
21\. Broad submission on behalf of contesting respondent-defendant
22\. In reply, S. N. Shelat, learned counsel for defendant No. 2, submitted
that :
(1) As regards the plaintiff's grievances about the alleged non-compliance
with the provisions of section 108 of the Companies Act, any alleged defect in
presentation of the transfer forms and about the alleged disqualification of
defendants Nos. 6 and 7 becoming shareholders of defendant No. 1-company,
these are all matters/disputes regarding the alleged rights and liabilities
flowing from the provisions of the Companies Act and, therefore, the forum
created under the Companies Act alone has the jurisdiction to entertain such
disputes and not the civil court. For this purpose reliance is placed on the
decision of the apex court in Canara Bank v. Nuclear Power Corporation of
India Ltd. [1995] 84 Comp Cas 70; [1995] 3 JT 42 particularly in para. 30 of
the said judgment where the apex court has stated that any question relating
to the title of any person who is a party before it to have his name entered
upon the company's register, and any question which it is necessary or
expedient to decide, the Company Law Board has exclusive jurisdiction (except
under the provisions of the Special Court Act, 1992).
(2)(a) As far the plaintiff's claim for the right of pre-emption is concerned,
the same is vehemently denied. According to the plaintiff, the agreement for
giving right of pre-emption alleged to have been executed by defendant No. 2
in favour of the plaintiff was at the time of purchase of 5,00,000 shares in
October, 1993, but no contemporaneous documents are produced in support of the
said allegation. The affidavit-in-reply on behalf of the defendants has
categorically denied this allegation and it has been asserted on behalf of the
defendants that no such agreement was entered into nor was any such promise or
commitment given to the plaintiff. It is inconceivable that the plaintiff,
which is a giant company incorporated under the Companies Act, would, while
transferring 5,00,000 shares worth more than Rs. 5 crores, rely upon any oral
agreement or promise or commitment from defendant No. 2 when defendant No. 2
is also a trust and not a natural person. The plaintiff has not given the
particulars of any person or individual who is alleged to have made any such
promise at the time of purchase of shares by defendant No. 2 in October, 1993.
(b) Dr. Rafiq Dossani of Khanna Securities Pvt. Ltd. had no authority to give
any such commitment or promise or even to convey any understanding as
mentioned in the letter dated March 16, 1994. Reliance is also placed on the
case of John Tinson and Co. Pvt. Ltd. v. Mrs. Surjeet Malhan [1997] 88 Comp
Cas 750; AIR 1997 SC 1411, wherein it is held that if the shareholder has not
given authority by any letter in writing or otherwise to her husband to
transfer her shares in favour of a broker, it could not be said that since the
shares with blank transfer forms were entrusted by her to her husband that the
husband had any right to transfer the share or that the broker had any right
or title in the shares held by her. Jardine Fleming India Pacific Trust is a
different entity from Jardine Fleming India Securities Pvt. Ltd.
(c) Without prejudice to the above, shares of a different company are freely
transferable as is clearly mentioned in sub-section (2) of section 111A of the
Companies Act. Even in the case of private companies, the shares are freely
transferable except in so far as there are any restrictions as contained in
the articles of association of the private limited company. For this purpose,
reliance is placed on the decisions of the Supreme Court in V. B. Rangaraj v.
V. B. Gopalakrishnan [1992] 73 Comp Cas 201; AIR 1992 SC 453; Gujarat Bottling
Co. Ltd. v. Coca Cola Co. [1995] 84 Comp Cas 618; AIR 1995 SC 2372.
(3) Without prejudice to any of the above submissions, the plaintiff has
prayed for the alternative relief of damages and as is the settled legal
position whenever damages are an adequate alternative remedy the court would
refuse to grant specific performance for the alleged right to sell especially
when the property is movable and particularly shares which are being sold in
the secondary market. Hence, no interim injunction should be granted in favour
of the plaintiff or against the defendants.
23\. Contours of the controversy.
24\. It would be convenient to delineate the contours of the controversy by
framing the following issues I. Whether the civil court has jurisdiction to
entertain the suit for the prayers made by the plaintiff on the basis of the
claim for pre-emption ?
II. Whether the plaintiff,.has made out a prima facie case on merits about
existence of the agreement for pre-emption ?
III. Whether the defendants have made out a case that in view of the concept
of free transferability of shares, the alleged agreement for pre-emption
cannot be enforced ?
IV. If the findings on issues II and III are if favour of the plaintiffs,
whether the plaintiff has made out a case for any temporary injunction to
restrain defendants Nos. 2 and 8 from transferring shares to any party ?
Whether the balance of convenience is in favour of the plaintiffs on the one
hand or defendants Nos. 2 and 8 on the other hand ?
V. Whether the civil court has jurisdiction to entertain the suit in respect
of the prayers for permanent and temporary injunction against defendant No. 1
regarding registration of transfer of shares ?
VI. Whether the plaintiff has made out a prima facie case on the merits and a
case for temporary injunction against registration of transfer of shares ?
Issues I and V - Jurisdiction of civil court.
25\. It will be convenient to discuss both these issues regarding jurisdiction
together as certain common legal proposition will have to be considered.
26\. Mr. Vakil has submitted that the trial court has erred in holding that
the civil court has no jurisdiction to entertain the present suit. In support
of the said submission, Mr. Vakil submitted that earlier whenever the issue of
jurisdiction of the company court under section 155 of the Companies Act for
decision of any question regarding rectification of the register of the
members has arisen, a long line of decisions such as Jayashree Shantaram
Vankudre v. Rajkamal Kalamandir Pvt. Ltd. [1960] 30 Comp Cas 141 (Bom); Rao
Saheb Manilal Gangaram Sindore v. Western India Theatres Ltd. [1963] 33 Comp
Cas 826 (Bom) and Kalyani Sundaram v. Shardlow India Ltd. [1990] 67 Comp Cas
306 (Mad) had all taken the view that under section 155 of the Act the
jurisdiction of the company court is of a summary nature and complex issues
must be tried in a suit and that the aforesaid view of the Bombay High Court
has also found approval in the decision of the Supreme Court in Public
Passenger Service Ltd. v. M. A. Khadar [1966] 56 Comp Cas 1; AIR 1966 SC 489,
wherein it has been clearly observed as under (headnote of AIR) :
"Where by reason of its complexity or otherwise the matter can more
conveniently be decided in a suit, the court may refuse relief under section
155 in exercise of the discretionary jurisdiction and relegate the parties to
a suit."
27\. Mr. Vakil has submitted that in the case of Om Prakash Berlia v. Unit
Trust of India [1983] 54 Comp Cas 469 (Bom) the Bombay High Court, speaking
through Mr. Justice Bharucha (as His Lordship then was), held that the right
to rectify the register of shareholders of a company was recognised at common
law and was translated into the statutes, English and Indian. Every
shareholder of a company has an individual right and interest in seeing that
the share register of the company reflects the true positions as, upon it
rests his right to receive his due share of the company's profits by way of
dividend, his right to exercise his vote and to have it correctly assessed as
against the votes of other rightful shareholders, and his right to acquire new
shares in the company pro rata with other rightful shareholders. An entry,
upon the register which is bad or illegal affects these rights of the
individual shareholder. He is thereby prejudiced and aggrieved. It is
recognised by the court that the procedure for rectification made available by
the Companies Act is a summary procedure, and that the petitioner may, in the
court's discretion, be referred to a suit, if the matter be a complex one.
28\. Mr. Vakil has also relied on the decision of the Bombay High Court in
Killick Nixon Ltd. v. Bina Popatlal Kapadia [1983] 54 Comp Cas 432 wherein a
Division Bench of the Bombay High Court comprising Mr. Justice P. B. Sawant
and Ms. Justice Sujata V. Manohar held that any member, aggrieved or not, had
a right to apply to the court for a rectification order and the court had
power under the provisions of sections 154, 155 and 163(2) of the Companies
Act to order rectification even in interlocutory proceedings.
29\. Mr. Vakil has further placed reliance on the decision of the Division
Bench of the Madras High Court in Kalyani Sundaram v. Shardlow India Ltd.
[1990] 67 Comp Cas 306 where in the court held that where the plaintiff is
claiming a pre-emptive right to purchase shares and is, challenging a transfer
in breach of such right of pre-emption, the rightness or wrongness of the
transfer cannot be questioned within the scope of section 155 of the Companies
Act. Since the plaintiff was merely attacking the transfer of the shares on
the ground that the administrator had no authority to do so, particularly
after having had the benefit of administration of the estate by him, the
remedy under section 155 of the Act could not be invoked for relief.
30\. As regards the decision of the Supreme Court in Canara Bank v. Nuclear
Power Corporation of India Ltd. [1995] 84 Comp Cas 70; [1995] 3 JT 42, Mr.
Vakil submitted that in that case the Supreme Court was required to decide the
limited question whether the provisions of the Special Court (Trial of
Offences Relating to Transactions in Securities) Act, 1992, seeking to exclude
the jurisdiction of the courts to entertain matters or claims arising out of
transactions in the tainted securities excluded the jurisdiction of the
Company Law Board also or not. The court was, therefore, examining the
question in view of the provisions of sections 111 and 155 that a court within
the meaning of this Special Courts Act, if it was held to be a court within
the meaning of the Special Courts Act, the jurisdiction of the Company Law
Board was ousted and if it was not held to be a court, the jurisdiction of the
Company Law Board would not be ousted. However, the Supreme Court was not
concerned with the jurisdiction of civil court under section 9 of the Civil
Procedure Code and, therefore, the decision in Canara Bank v. Nuclear Power
Corporation of India Ltd. [1995] 84 Comp Cas 70 cannot be treated as an
authority for the proposition that the jurisdiction of the civil court for
entertaining the disputes regarding transfer of shares or registration of
shares is ousted.
31\. Mr. Vakil's submissions is that the sentence "in regard to all these
matters, the Company Law Board has exclusive jurisdiction" is a passing
observation and not the ratio of the judgment. He submitted that by making the
passing observation the Supreme Court in Canara Bank's case [1995] 84 Comp Cas
70 did not intend to wipe out a series of decisions like Public Passenger
Service Ltd. v. M. A. Khadar [1966] 36 Comp Cas 1; AIR 1966 SC 489, and also
decisions of the Madras High Court in T. A. K. Mohideen Pichai Taraganar v.
Tinnevelly Mills Co. Ltd., AIR 1928 Mad 571. Kalyani Sundaram v. Shardlow
India Ltd. [1990] 67 Comp Cas 306, 307 (Mad) and Rao Saheb Manilal Gangaram
Sindore v. Western India Theatres Ltd. [1963] 33 Comp Cas 826 (Bom) wherein
the courts have taken a view that the civil court has also the jurisdiction to
decide disputes under the Companies Act. Mr. Vakil has further submitted that
the Supreme Court had earlier gone to the extent of laying down that the
remedies under the Companies Act are in the nature of summary remedies and the
civil court can take a more comprehensive review of the controversy between
the parties on the question of transfer of shares or rectification of
registration. If the above observation in para. 31 of the judgment is held to
be the ratio of the decision, it is per incuriam as it overlooked the
principles laid down by the Supreme Court in Public Passenger Service Ltd. v.
M. A. Khadar [1966] 36 Comp Cas 1; AIR 1966 SC 489, which had approved the
settled law on the subject as already held by the Bombay High Court.
32\. On the other hand, Mr. Shelat for the contesting respondents/defendants
has submitted that jurisdiction under section 155 of the Companies Act has
been held to be wide and comprehensive. This court, speaking through Mr.
Justice D. A. Desai (as His Lordship then was), in the case of Gulabrai
Kalidas Naik v. Laxmidas Lallubhai Patel [1978] 48 Comp Cas 438, had
considered the previous decisions of the Bombay High Court and of the Supreme
Court in Public Passenger Service Ltd. v. M. A. Khadar [1966] 36 Comp Cas 1;
AIR 1966 SC 489, and then held that the jurisdiction under section 155 is
comprehensive enabling the court to decide all questions necessary or
expedient to decide in connection with the application for rectification.
33\. Mr. Shelat has then relied on the provisions of section 111(7) read with
section 111A(7) of the Companies Act and has submitted that the Company Law
Board has power to decide the title to the securities in question before it.
Paragraph 31 of the judgment, which is strongly pressed into service by Mr.
Shelat, reads as under (page 95 of 84 Comp Cas) :
"Now, under section 111 of the Companies Act as amended with effect from May
31, 1991, the Company Law Board performs the functions that were theretofore
performed by courts of civil judicature under section 155. It is empowered to
make orders directing rectification of the company register, as to damages,
costs and incidental and consequential orders. It may decide any question
relating to the title of any person who is a party before it to have his name
entered upon the company's register, and any question which it is necessary or
expedient to decide. It may make interim orders. Failure to comply with any
order visits the company with a fine. In regard to all these matters it has
exclusive jurisdiction (except under the provisions of the Special Court Act,
which is the issue before us). In exercising its function under section 111
the Company Law Board must, and does, act judicially. Its orders are
appealable. The Company Law Board further, is a permanent body constituted
under a statute. It is difficult to see how it can be said to be anything
other than a court, particularly for the purposes of section 9A of the Special
Court Act."
34\. Paragraph 34 of the above judgment states that the words "appeal" and
"application" in the context of the provisions of section 111 have the same
meaning and they are seen to be original applications.
35\. Mr. Shelat has also relied on the decision of the Delhi High Court in
Harnam Singh v. Bhagwan Singh [1992] 74 Comp Cas 726, 732, 733 :
".... the Companies Act is a special statute which provides for special and
specific remedies, and, in view of the principle enunciated in Nazir Ahmad v.
King Emperor, AIR 1936 PC 253, and reiterated by the Supreme Court in the
cases referred to above, keeping in view the fact that the powers of the
company judge to try and dispose of the matters are co-extensive with those of
the civil court in view of rule 6 of the Companies (Court) Rules, it would not
be right for the civil court to entertain matters which relate to
rectification of the register of members or which involve determination of
title to shares in companies, when specifically, under the provisions of
section 155(3)(a), questions of title can be determined by the company court
...
Learned counsel for the plaintiffs has not cited any single case which was
filed as an original civil suit which relates to declaration of title to
shares and which was held to be maintainable.
In this view of the matter, in my view, the cognizance of a suit relating to
title to shares is impliedly barred by section 9 of the Code of Civil
Procedure."
36\. Before dealing with the rival contentions, it is necessary to refer to
three decisions of the Supreme Court dealing with the question of ouster of
jurisdiction of the civil court. In the case of Dhulabhai v. State of M.P.,
AIR 1969 SC 78, the Supreme Court, inter alia, laid down the following
principle (headnote) :
"Where there is an express bar of the jurisdiction of the court, an
examination of the scheme of the particular Act to find the adequacy or the
sufficiency of the remedies provided may be relevant but is not decisive to
sustain the jurisdiction of the civil court. Where there is no express
exclusion the examination of the remedies and the scheme of the particular Act
to find out the intendment becomes necessary and the result of the inquiry may
be decisive. In the latter case it is necessary to see if the statute creates
a special right or a liability and provides for the determination of the right
or liability and further lays down that all questions about the said right and
liability shall be determined by the tribunals so constituted, and whether
remedies normally associated with actions in civil courts are prescribed by
the said statute or not."
37\. Similarly, if the case of Premier Automobiles Ltd. v. Kamlakar Shantaram
Wadke, AIR 1975 SC 2238, the following principles are laid down (headnote) :
"The principles applicable to the jurisdiction of the civil court in relation
to an industrial dispute may be stated thus :
(1) If the dispute is not an industrial dispute, nor does it relate to
enforcement of any other right under the Act the remedy lies only in the civil
court.
(2) If the dispute is an industrial dispute arising out of a right or
liability under the general or common law and not under the Act, the
jurisdiction of the civil court is alternative, leaving it to the election of
the suitor concerned to choose his remedy for the relief which is competent to
be granted in a particular remedy.
(3) If the industrial dispute relates to the enforcement of a right or an
obligation created under the Act, then the only remedy available to the suitor
is an adjudication under the Act.
(4) If the right which is sought to be enforced is a right created under the
Act such as Chapter V-A then the remedy for its enforcement is either section
33C or the raising of an industrial dispute, as the case may be."
38\. We may, however, in relation to principle No. (2) stated above hasten to
add that there will hardly be a dispute which will be an industrial dispute
within the meaning of section 2(k) of the Act and yet will be one arising out
of a right or liability under the general or common law only and not under the
Act. Such a contingency, for example, may arise in regard to the dismissal of
an unsponsored workman Which in view of the provision of law contained in
section 2A of the Act will be an industrial dispute even though it may
otherwise be an individual dispute. Civil court, therefore, will have hardly
an occasion to deal with the type of cases falling under principle No. (2).
Cases of industrial disputes by and large, almost invariably are bound to be
covered by principle No. (3) stated above.
39\. In Rajasthan State Road Transport Corporation v. Krishna Kant, AIR 1995
SC 1715, the Supreme Court examined, the aforesaid principles and in para. 26
of the said judgment, their Lordships clarified the judgment in the case of
Premier Automobiles Ltd. v. Kamlakar Shantaram Wadke, AIR 1975 SC 2238, and
held that the words under the Act in principle No. (3) must be understood as
referring not only to the Industrial Disputes Act but also to all sister
enactments (like the Industrial Employment (Standing Orders) Act), which do
not provide a special forum of their own for enforcement of the rights and
liabilities created by them. The civil court has no jurisdiction to entertain
such suits. In other words, a dispute arising between the employer and the
workman/workmen under, or for the enforcement of the Industrial Employment
Standing Orders, is an industrial dispute, if it satisfied the requirement of
section 2(k) and/or section 2A of the Industrial Disputes Act and must be
adjudicated in the forums created by the Industrial Disputes Act alone. This
would be so even if the dispute raised or relief claimed is based partly upon
certified standing orders and partly on general law of contract.
40\. In para. 32 of the said judgment, their Lordships summarized the
principles and principle No. 2 reads as under (page 1725) :
"Where, however, the dispute involves recognition, observance or enforcement
of any of the rights or obligations created by the Industrial Disputes Act,
the only remedy is to approach the forums created by the said Act."
41\. The thrust of the submissions of learned counsel for the plaintiff is
that the remedy under section 155 of the Companies Act regarding rectification
of register of members (which provisions are now to be found in sections 111A
and 111 of the Companies Act) has been held to be one for enforcement of the
common law right (vide Mr. Justice Bharucha, speaking for the Bombay High
Court in Om Prakash Berlia v. Unit Trust of India [1983] 54 Comp Cas 469 and
it has already been held by the Supreme Court and the Bombay High Court to be
a remedy of summary nature. It is submitted that complicated questions of law
and fact are still required to be adjudicated in a civil suit, and, therefore,
the civil court still has jurisdiction because as per principles laid down in
Dhulabhai v. State of M.P., AIR 1969 SC 78, and Premier Automobiles Ltd. v.
Kamlakar Shantaram Wadke, AIR 1975 SC 2238, the jurisdiction of the civil
court is not ousted that for excluding the jurisdiction of the civil court,
the statute creating a special right or a liability and providing that the
determination of the right or liability must also lay down that all questions
about the said right or liability shall be determined by the tribunals created
under the Act and that the remedies normally associated with actions in a
civil court must also be prescribed by the said statute and, therefore, since
the remedy under section 155 (now embodied under sections 111A and 111 of the
Companies Act) is held to be of a summary nature and complicated questions are
required to be relegated for determination in a civil suit as per the
aforesaid lines of decision, it must be held that the jurisdiction of the
civil court is not excluded for any of the prayers made in the suit.
42\. The submission of Mr. Vakil is prima facie attractive but, in the case of
Gulabrai Kalidas Naik v. Laxmidas Lallubhai Patel [1978] 48 Comp Cas 438
(Guj), this court, speaking through Hon'ble Mr. Justice D. A. Desai, has
already examined the decisions of the Bombay High Court and the decisions of
the Supreme Court in Public Passenger Service Ltd. v. M. A. Khadar [1966] 36
Comp Cas 1 (SC) on which Mr. Vakil has heavily relied and, therefore, come to
the conclusion that the jurisdiction under section 155 of the Act is
comprehensive.
43\. There is nothing in the language of section 155 of the Companies Act,
1956, which even remotely suggests that the jurisdiction conferred on the
court is of a summary nature and that it precludes a full inquiry in respect
of title to shares. On the other hand, sub-section (3) of section 155 gives
discretion to the court "to decide any question which it is necessary or
expedient to decide in connection with the application for rectification".
This expression is wider in amplitude than the well-known expression
"questions which are ancillary or incidental to the main question". The
jurisdiction conferred by section 155(3) is a comprehensive jurisdiction which
enables the court in an application under section 155 to examine all
questions, complex, intricate or otherwise, relating to the title to the
shares, and further enlarges the jurisdiction of the court set up under the
Companies Act to decide all those questions which the court considers
necessary or expedient to decide in connection with the application for
rectification. In other words, when an application for rectification of the
register of shareholders is made, it would be open to the court while
considering the main relief to decide all questions that may arise in such an
application on rival contentions. To illustrate, if a petitioner asserts title
to the share and the respondent contends that the title was acquired by a
forged document, forgery would be put in issue and it would be necessary to
decide the issue of forgery before the main prayer for rectification of
register can be granted.
44\. A petition under section 155 would not be maintainable against persons
who are neither directors nor shareholders. If third parties are impleaded as
respondents, the court could proceed to inquire into the allegation of the
petitioner. The court's jurisdiction would not be lost merely because third
parties are required to be impleaded.
45\. In Canara Bank v. Nuclear Power Corporation of India Ltd. [1995] 84 Comp
Cas 70 (SC) also, the Supreme Court has recognised the wide jurisdiction under
section 155 of the Act in the following words (page 83) :
"Section 155, as it read before May 31, 1991, entitled a person aggrieved or
any member of a company or a company to apply to the court for rectification
of the company's register of members if the name of any person was, without
sufficient cause entered in it or, after having been entered in it, was
without sufficient cause, omitted therefrom or default was made or unnecessary
delay took place in entering on it the fact of any person having become, or
ceased to be a member. The court was entitled to order rectification of the
register and to direct the company to pay the damages, if any sustained by a
party aggrieved. The court was entitled to decide any question relating to the
title of any person who was a party to the application to have his name
entered in or omitted from the register. An appeal from the order of, the
court was provided for.
It will be seen that the Company Law Board now exercises the powers that were
exercisable by the court under section 155. It is entitled to direct
rectification of the register and the payment of damages by the company. It is
entitled to decide any question relating to the title of any person who is a
party to the application to have his name entered in or omitted from the
register and to decide any question which it is necessary or expedient to
decide in this connection. An appeal to the High Court against any decision or
order of the Company Law Board on a question of law is available to any person
aggrieved thereby, under the provisions of section 10F."
46\. It must, therefore, be held that the jurisdiction conferred on the
company court under section 155 of the Companies Act which now inheres in the
Company Law Board under the provisions of sections 111 and 111A of the
Companies Act is not jurisdiction of merely a summary nature as the
jurisdiction of the Company Law Board includes within its compass power to
hold a fullfledged enquiry in respect of the title to shares and to decide any
question which it considers necessary or expedient to decide in connection
with the application for rectification. Sub-sections (5) and (7) of section
111 which are also to be found by incorporation in section 111A of the
Companies Act are required to be reproduced in extenso :
"(5) The Company Law Board, while dealing with an appeal preferred under sub-
section (2) or an application made under sub-section (4) may, after hearing
the parties, either dismiss the appeal or reject the application, or by order,
-
(a) direct that the transfer or transmission shall be registered by the
company and the company shall comply with such order within ten days of the
receipt of the order; or
(b) direct rectification of the register and also direct the company to pay
damages, if any, sustained by any party aggrieved ...
(7) On any application under this section, the Company Law Board -
(a) may decide any question relating to the title of any person who is a party
to the application to have his name entered in, or omitted from the register;
(b) generally, may decide any question which it is necessary or expedient to
decide in connection with the application for rectification."
47\. Hence, in the opinion of this court, the aforesaid proposition propounded
by this court in the case of Gulabrai Kalidas Naik v. Laxmidas Lallubhai Patel
[1978] 48 Comp Cas 438 (Guj) and by the Supreme Court in Canara Bank v.
Nuclear Power Corporation of India Ltd. [1995] 84 Comp Cas 70 will apply with
full force to the jurisdiction of the Company Law Board under sections 111 and
111A of the Companies Act.
48\. Mr. Vakil has, however, submitted that the remedy of approaching the
Company Law Board under sections 111A and 111 of the Act can be invoked only
after the transfer of shares is registered by the company and not prior
thereto and that, therefore, the plaintiff would not be in a position to seek
any injunction against registration of transfer. While Mr. Vakil's grievance
is not without substance, it cannot be helped, because the provisions of sub-
section (2) of section 111A themselves provide that subject to the provisions
of that section the shares or debentures and any interest therein of a company
shall be freely transferable. The company is a creature of this statute and if
the rights and obligations created by this statute only provide for a limited
remedy, the matter must end there. In any case, the picture is not as gloomy
as is sought to be made out by Mr. Vakil because sub-section (5) of section
111-A does contemplate that the voting rights of a holder of shares whose name
is also entered in the register of members, i.e., of the transferee, may be
suspended by the Company Law Board. Hence, the remedies provided by the
provisions of section 111A read with section 111 of the Companies Act are a
complete code in so far as any dispute about non-compliance with or non-
observance of the provisions of the Companies Act is concerned. Since the
prayer for permanent injunction as well as temporary injunction against
registration of transfer of shares from defendant No. 2 to defendants Nos. 6
and 7 can be the subject-matter of proceedings before the Company Law Board
under sections 111 and 111A of the Companies Act, the jurisdiction of the
civil court is impliedly barred in respect of the aforesaid prayer.
49\. The decision in Om Prakash Berlia v. Unit Trust of India [1983] 54 Comp
Cas 469 (Bom) was certainly rendered in a suit but the question there was
whether the directors acted mala fide, in breach of the fiduciary duties in
waiving the requirement of a clause in the form of debentures, thus enabling
the shares to be allotted, earlier than the prescribed period, to the
defendants institutions. Hence, the question was about breach of fiduciary
duties and not about non-compliance with the provisions of the Companies Act.
Hence, this decision does not assist the plaintiff's case on the question of
jurisdiction of the civil court to entertain the prayer based on the claim for
pre-emption.
50\. There is no dispute that the proposition of law laid down in the case of
Killick Nixon Ltd. v. Bina Popatlal Kapadia [1983] 54 Comp Cas 432 (Bom) that
even a person not aggrieved by an incorrect or a wrong entry in the register
would be entitled to file the petition for rectification of the register of
members and that such person need not be transferor or transferee because
incidentally also his rights as a shareholder are likely to be affected. The
provisions of section 155 for rectification of the register are now
assimilated with the provisions of sections 111 and 111A. This decision does
not carry the plaintiff's case any further because in the above decision also,
the court was the company court hearing the matter under section 155 of the
Companies Act.
51\. In view of the above discussion and in view of the principle laid down in
Rajasthan State Road Transport Corporation v. Krishna Kant, AIR 1995 SC 1715,
even if the dispute raised or relief claimed is based partly upon a statutory
provision and partly on the general law of contract, the forum under the
statute alone will have the jurisdiction, it is clear that in so far as the
plaintiff has prayed for permanent and temporary injunction against the
registration of transfer of shares on the basis of the non-compliance with or
non-observance of the requirements of the provisions of section 108, section
25 and other relevant provisions of the Companies Act it must be held that for
resolving this dispute, the only remedy is to approach the forum created under
the Companies Act, i.e., the Company Law Board under section 111A of the Act
which must be held to have exclusive jurisdiction to decide the aforesaid
dispute.
52\. That still leaves the question about the jurisdiction of the civil court
to entertain the suit for adjudication and enforcement of the right for pre-
emption. There is no manner of doubt that the said right, if accepted in the
facts of the present case, flows from the common law and not from any
provision of the Companies Act. In view of the aforesaid decision of the
Bombay High Court in Om Prakash Berlia v. Unit Trust of India [1983] 54 Comp
Cas 469 (Bom) and the decision of the apex court in Public Passenger Service
Ltd. v. M. A. Khadar [1966] 36 Comp Cas 1 (SC) it would not be possible to
hold that where the plaintiff is invoking his rights under the general law of
contract, the suit for enforcement of such a right would not be maintainable
if the relief to be granted would result in rectification of the register. The
aforesaid line of decisions, therefore, does help Mr. Vakil in prima facie
dislodging the finding given by the trial court that the civil court would
have no jurisdiction even for the dispute of pre-emption.
53\. It is true that the preliminary objection regarding jurisdiction of the
civil court even to entertain the dispute regarding the claim for pre-emption
is formidable in view of the observations made in para. 31 of the judgment in
Canara Bank v. Nuclear Power Corporation of India Ltd. [1995] 84 Comp Cas 70.
Mr. Shelat has argued that the decisions rendered by the Supreme Court and by
the High Court prior to May 31, 1991, would not be applicable to the
provisions of section 111 after May 31, 1991, and to the provisions of section
111A inserted with effect from September 20, 1995, and that therefore, the
Supreme Court observation that the Company Law Board has exclusive
jurisdiction was intended to oust the jurisdiction of the civil court under
section 9 of the Civil Procedure Code as well.
54\. In the opinion of this court, Mr. Vakil is right in contending that in
Canara Bank v. Nuclear Power Corporation of India Ltd. [1995] 84 Comp Cas 70,
(SC) the Supreme Court was merely concerned with the question whether the
Company Law Board is a court or not within the meaning of the Special Court
Act and, therefore, the Supreme Court examined the indicia of "court" and
judicial power of the State. It was in this context that the Supreme Court
examined the question about jurisdiction of the Company Law Board under the
Companies Act and observed that in regard to these matters, i.e., questions
relating to title of any person to have his name entered upon the company's
register and any question which it is necessary or expedient to decide, the
Company Law Board has exclusive jurisdiction but the observation "it (Company
Law Board) has exclusive jurisdiction" is required to be confined to
exclusivity amongst all the forums created by or under the Companies Act and
the observation does not have the effect of ousting the jurisdiction of civil
court which it already had for deciding disputes for adjudication of rights
under the common law. This conclusion is fortified by the recommendation of
the Sachar Committee itself which is quoted in para. 14 of the judgment in
Canara Bank v. Nuclear Power Corporation of India Ltd. [1995] 84 Comp Cas 70
(SC) as under (page 82) :
"Under the existing law, there are two remedies open to an aggrieved person -
to file an appeal under section 111, or to apply to the court, for
rectification of the share register under section 155. We think that these two
remedies should now be assimilated and provision be made (at one place) for a
person aggrieved (including any person aggrieved by a refusal of the board of
directors to register a transfer or transmission of shares) to apply to the
Company Law Board - as proposed to be constituted - for rectification of the
share register on any of the grounds mentioned in sub-clause (a) or (b) of
sub-section (1) of the present section 155.
Our proposals are -
Accordingly, we would recommend as follows :
Sections 111 and 155 should be assimilated into a single statutory provision."
55\. It must, therefore, be held that the observation in para. 31 of the
Supreme Court judgment that the Company Law Board "has exclusive jurisdiction"
in the matter of deciding any question relating to the title of any person to
have his name entered upon the company's register and any question which it is
necessary or expedient to decide - is required to be read as -
"out of all the judicial and quasi-judicial forums on which jurisdiction is
conferred by the Companies Act, the Company Law Board has exclusive
jurisdiction in all the matters relating to title of any person to have his
name entered in the company's register and any question which it is necessary
or expedient to decide."
56\. The only judgment which has held that jurisdiction of civil court is
ousted is the judgment of the Delhi High Court in Harnam Singh v. Bhagwan
Singh [1992] 74 Comp Cas 726. The following observations at page 733 of the
report would show what weighed with the court for converting a concurrent
jurisdiction of the company court under section 155 of the Act into exclusive
jurisdiction of the company court :
"Inasmuch as there is no distinction between the power of a judge of the High
Court on the original side to try the matter as a civil suit, and as a judge
of the High Court of Delhi, sitting as a company judge to investigate
questions of title, it would be appropriate that the proceedings relating to
questions of title are also determined by the company judge."
57\. The decision of the Delhi High Court must, therefore, be confined to the
cases where special rights and obligations created by the Companies Act are
sought to be enforced.
58\. The off-shoot of the aforesaid discussion is that the jurisdiction of the
civil court is certainly barred in so far as the plaintiff has prayed for
permanent and temporary injunction to restrain defendant No. 1-company from
registering the transfer of shares from defendants Nos. 2 and 8 to defendants
Nos. 6 and 7 but the jurisdiction of the civil court is not barred, in so far
as the plaintiff has prayed for reliefs on the basis of alleged right of pre-
emption.
59\. Issue II - Existence or otherwise of the agreement for pre-emption :
As far as the merits of the plaintiff's claim for pre-emption are concerned,
the plaintiff has heavily relied on the letter dated March 16, 1994, of Khanna
Securities Ltd., written on behalf of Jardine Fleming India Securities Pvt.
Ltd., which is quoted in para. 6 above. It is, however, required to be noted
that even according to the plaintiff, the aforesaid letter does not constitute
the suit agreement for pre-emption but it is the record, or reaffirmation of a
preexisting agreement which was entered into between the plaintiff and
defendant No. 8 at the time of transfer of 5,00,000 shares in October, 1993.
60\. The stand of the Jardine Fleming Group through Mr. Ted Pulling (letter
dated December 10, 1994), is that they were ignorant of such communication and
Dr. Rafiq Dossani was never employed by the Funds Management Division and,
therefore, without any authority he had written the letter dated March 16,
1994, and Mr. Ted Pulling was not apprised of this agreement. This stand was
also reiterated at the hearing. However, in the pleadings on behalf of the
defendants, defendant No. 2 has not taken any categorical stand to the effect
that Dr. Rafiq Dossani had written such letter without any authority or that
Dr. Rafiq Dossani had tried to help the plaintiff without any knowledge or
consent of defendant No. 2. The stand on behalf of the contesting defendants
in the affidavit in reply in para. 21 is that no such agreement was ever
entered into with the plaintiff and that the purchase of 5,00,000 shares from
the plaintiff was without any condition. In paras. 9 and 10 of the affidavit
in reply, it is stated as under :
"9. I say that the letter dated March 16, 1994, neither creates any agreement
nor does it reflect any agreement as alleged by the plaintiffs. I say that
there was and is no agreement between the plaintiffs and defendant No. 2
purporting to grant to the plaintiffs a right of first refusal in respect of
the 5,00,000 shares purchased from the plaintiffs. I say that, assuming whilst
denying, that the said letter creates an agreement or reflects an agreement as
alleged by the plaintiffs, the same is not binding on defendant No. 2 or
anyone on its behalf. Consequently, the sale of the 5,00,000 shares by
defendant No. 2 is valid, binding and subsisting.
10\. I say that, assuming whilst denying that the said letter creates an
agreement or reflects an agreement as alleged by the plaintiffs, the same is
not valid and binding in law. I say that defendant No. 1 is a public limited
company and is listed on the primary stock exchanges in India. Under the law
the shares of a public limited company are freely transferable. Consequently
no agreement can exist which restricts the free transferability of the shares
of a public limited company. The purported agreement on which the plaintiffs
seek to rely is contrary to law and is thus not valid and binding. No rights
can be, therefore, claimed under or in furtherance of the purported agreement.
Since the ad interim order passed by this hon'ble court is based on the
purported agreement which is not valid in law, the same needs to be vacated
forthwith."
61\. There is no contemporaneous record to substantiate the plaintiffs' case
about the aforesaid alleged agreement of October, 1993, but from the facts
narrated in paras. 5 to 8 of this judgment particularly the plaintiff-
company's letters dated September 27, 1993, and October 17, 1994, to the GIIC,
it appears that the plaintiff-company was in difficult financial circumstances
and, therefore, it had approached the GIIC for permission to sell its shares.
The approval was sought as far back as in September, 1993, but the GIIC (a
Government Corporation) took its own time to consult the Government and io
take its decision which process took about five months' time. In the meantime,
the plaintiff Was in a hurry to generate some funds and, therefore, it sold
off 5,00,000 shares and generated almost Rs. 6 crores by selling the shares to
defendant No. 2 in the open market at Rs. 119.45 when the share price quoted
at the Bombay Stock Exchange was Rs. 117.50 approximately. In all
probabilities, at that time the plaintiff had not obtained any agreement or
commitment from defendant No. 2 regarding the right of pre-emption and
defendant No. 2 being an FII playing in the secondary market was not likely to
give any such promise or enter into any such agreement. Admittedly, there is
no such written agreement or undertaking either from defendant No. 2 or from
anyone else in October, 1993, or even till December, 1993, when 5,00,000
shares sold by the plaintiff to defendant No. 2 were registered but the
plaintiff then found itself in a very embarrassing position when it received
conditional approval from GIIC through their letter dated March 7, 1994, one
of the conditions being that the purchaser of shares must also agree to the
right of pre-emption being conferred on the GIIC. Having been placed in a
tight corner the plaintiff seems to have approached the Jardine Fleming group.
One of the directors connected with the Jardine Fleming group called Dr. Rafiq
Dossani then addressed the above communication dated March 16, 1994.
62\. In view of the above discussion, it may be concluded that while the
plaintiff cannot be said to have made out a strong prima facie case of
existence of the agreement for pre-emption, the plaintiff has raised a triable
issue which would be required to be adjudicated at the trial of the suit. Mr.
Shelat for the contesting defendants has, however, submitted that his clients
have not dwelt much on the above question since the alleged agreement is
contrary to law and, therefore, there is no need to go into the above disputed
questions of fact. That takes us to the important question about
transferability of shares in a public limited company.
63\. Issue III - Transferability of shares and agreement for pre-emption :
Mr. Shelat, learned counsel for the contesting defendant has very strenuously
urged that in view of the provisions of sections 82 and 111A(2) of the
Companies Act, the Supreme Court has already held that shares are freely
transferable and that there cannot be any restriction on transferability of
shares except any restriction in the articles of association. Sections 82 and
111A(2) read as under :
"82. The shares or other interest of any member in a company shall be movable
property, transferable in the manner provided by the articles of the company
...
111A.(2) Subject to the provisions of this section, the shares or debentures
and any interest therein of a company shall be freely transferable."
64\. It is submitted that the above provisions are not made subject to a
contract to the contrary.
65\. After referring to the aforesaid provisions and the various standard
authorities of company law, the Supreme Court has in V. B. Rangaraj v. V. B.
Gopalakrishnan [1992] 73 Comp Cas 201; AIR 1992 SC 453, held as under (page
205) :
"Whether under the Companies Act or the Transfer of Property Act the shares
are, therefore, transferable like any other movable property. The only
restriction on the transfer of the shares of a company is as laid down in its
articles, if any. A restriction which is not specified in the articles is,
therefore, not binding either on the company or on the shareholders. The
vendee of the shares cannot be denied the registration of the shares purchased
by him on a ground other than that stated in the articles."
66\. In support of the aforesaid proposition of law, the Supreme Court relied
on its decision in Shanti Prasad Jain v. Kalinga Tubes Ltd. [1965] 35 Comp Cas
351 (SC), certain English decisions and also authorities on company law like
Palmer and Pennington. In Chapter 16 of Gore-Browne on Companies (43rd
edition), it is stated that subject to certain limited restrictions imposed by
law, a shareholder has prima facie the right to transfer his shares when and
to whom he pleases. This freedom to transfer may, however, be significantly
curtailed by provisions in the articles. In determining the extent of any
restriction on transfer contained in the articles, a strict construction is
adopted. The restriction must be set out expressly or must arise by necessary
implication and any ambiguous provision is construed in favour of the
shareholder wishing to transfer.
67\. In Palmer's Company Law (24th edition) dealing with the transfer of
shares it is stated at pages 608, 609 that it is well settled that unless the
articles otherwise provide the shareholder has a free right to transfer to
whom he will. It is not necessary to seek in the articles for a power to
transfer, for the Act (the English Act of 1980), itself gives such a power. It
is only necessary to look to the articles to ascertain the restrictions, if
any upon it. Thus a member has a right to transfer his share/shares to another
person unless this right is clearly taken away by the articles.
68\. Mr. Shelat having relied on the above authority submitted that if the
concept of free transferability of shares is so propounded in the case of a
private limited company as was the fact in the case of V. B. Rangaraj v. V. B.
Gopalakrishnan [1992] 73 Comp Cas 201 (SC) the case of free transferability of
shares in a public limited company is on a higher and stronger footing.
69\. Mr. Shelat has further pointed out that in the case of Gujarat Bottling
Co. Ltd. v. Coca Cola Co. [1995] 84 Comp Cas 618; AIR 1995 SC 2372, the
Supreme Court was concerned with a public limited company and in paragraph 42
thereof, the Supreme Court has applied the principle enunciated in the case of
V. B. Rangaraj [1992] 73 Comp Cas 201 (SC) to the public limited company also.
70\. It is also submitted that, in the instant case, the articles of
association of defendant No. 1-company do not incorporate the alleged
agreement.
71\. Mr. Vakil has submitted that the aforesaid decision cannot be treated as
an authority in connection with transferability of shares of a public limited
company because -
(1) the Supreme Court was dealing with the case of a private limited company.
(2) free transferability of shares refers to absence of restrictions which may
be imposed by third parties, but it cannot exclude the right of a shareholder
to impose restrictions on himself in the matter of transfer of shares to
another person. It has been held by the House of Lords in Russel v. Northern
Bank Development Corporation Ltd. [1993] 3 Comp LJ 45 (HL), that though an
agreement by or amongst shareholders cannot bind the company, it can certainly
bind the shareholders.
(3) In the case of Shanti Prasad Jain [1965] 35 Comp Cas 351 (SC), all that
the Supreme Court had laid down was that an agreement between two shareholders
about issuance of shares by the company cannot bind the company unless such an
agreement was incorporated into the articles of association of the company.
That case did not deal with restrictions imposed by a shareholder on himself.
(4) If the decision in the case of V. B. Rangaraj [1992] 73 Comp Cas 201 (SC)
is held to have the effect of nullifying the restrictions imposed by a
shareholder on himself, merely because they are not contained in the articles
of association, it is likely to have a serious fall out. The question may
arise in the following illustrative cases :
(i) The promoters of a private or a public limited company borrowing loans
from banks and/or financial institutions have to pledge their shares with the
lending institutions/banks within agreement not to transfer the shares without
prior written consent of the lending institutions/banks. Will the banks and
financial institutions be reduced to a state of helplessness if such
agreements are not incorporated into the articles of association of the
company ?
(ii) A shareholder settles his shares on trust for the benefit of certain
minor beneficiaries with a stipulation that the shares shall not be sold
before the beneficiaries attain the age of 21 years. The shares may be in big
companies like Reliance Industries Ltd., or TISCO. Will the restriction in the
trust deed not bind the trustees merely because the restrictions are not
incorporated in the articles of association ? Would it ever be possible for
such settlor to get such restrictions incorporated in the articles of
association of big companies having millions of shareholders ?
(5) Free transferability of shares does hot convert shares into currency notes
or bearer bonds.
(6) While delivering the judgment in V. B. Rangaraj's case [1992] 73 Comp Cas
201 (SC), the Supreme Court did not consider the provisions of section
22A(3)(b) of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956, which were
applicable when V. B. Rangaraj's case [1992] 73 Comp Cas 201 (SC) was decided.
Those provisions empowered the company to refuse registration of transfer of
shares if the transfer was in contravention of any law which would include the
Contract Act.
72\. It is, therefore, submitted that the interpretation placed by the Supreme
Court on the concept of free transferability of shares is required to be
reconsidered and the rule prohibiting restrictions placed by third parties
cannot be construed as a rule prohibiting restrictions placed by a shareholder
on himself.
73\. It is required to be noted that while V. B. Rangaraj's case [1992] 73
Comp Cas 201 (SC) was certainly concerned with a private limited company, the
very distinction between a private limited company and a public limited
company is, inter alia, the provision of restriction against transfer being
contained in the articles of association of a private limited company whereas
the articles of association of a public limited company cannot contain any
such restriction. Hence, Mr. Shelat's contention that the ratio in the case of
V. B. Rangaraj [1992] 73 Comp Cas 201 (SC) will apply with much greater force
to the case of a public limited company requires Ito be accepted. Mr. Vakil's
contention that the concept of free transferability cannot be invoked for
avoiding restrictions imposed by a third party on a shareholder but not by a
shareholder on himself though prima facie attractive cannot be accepted
because in V. B. Rangaraj's case [1992] 73 Comp Cas 201, (SC), the Supreme
Court was concerned with a similar restriction imposed by a shareholder on
himself. It is clear from the facts of that case and it is also highlighted in
the concluding paragraph of the judgment which reads as under (page 208) :
"Hence, the private agreement which is relied upon by the plaintiffs
whereunder there is restriction on a living member to transfer his
shareholding only to the branch of the family to which he belongs in terms
imposes two restrictions which are not stipulated in the article. Firstly, it
imposes a restriction on a living member to transfer the shares only to the
existing members and secondly, the transfer has to be only to a member
belonging to the same branch of the family. The agreement obviously,
therefore, imposes additional restrictions on the member's right to transfer
his shares which are contrary to the provisions of article 13. They are,
therefore, not binding either on the shareholders or on the company. In view
of this legal position, the finding recorded by the courts below that the sale
by the first defendant of his shares to defendants Nos. 4 to 6 is invalid as
it is in breach of the agreement, is erroneous in law."
74\. As far as the other arguments of Mr. Vakil are concerned it is not open
to this court to ignore the law laid down by the Supreme Court in V. B.
Rangaraj's case [1992] 73 Comp Cas 201 and Gujarat Bottling Co. Ltd. v. Coca
Cola Co. [1995] 84 Comp Cas 618 on any of the grounds urged by Mr. Vakil (vide
B. M. Lakhani v. Malkapur Municipality, AIR 1970 SC 1002). As per the settled
legal position, only a court of co-ordinate jurisdiction can consider whether
a precedent is per incuriam.
75\. It must, therefore, be held that once defendant No. 8 a/c defendant No. 2
became shareholders upon registration of the transfer of shares in their
favour in December, 1993, they were free to sell the shares to any party and
the alleged agreement for pre-emption, even if proved in favour of the
plaintiff, not having been incorporated into the articles of association of
defendant No. 1-company, cannot be enforced.
Issue IV :
In view of the finding on Issue No. III this issue is not required to be
discussed. However, to complete the discussion, a finding is given on this
issue also. Mr. Shelat has relied on the provisions of the Specific Relief Act
and on the following extract from the Law of Contracts by Chitty :
"Cases where damages are regarded as adequate. - Damages are considered to be
an adequate remedy where the plaintiff can readily get the equivalent of what
he contracted for from another source. For this reason specific performance is
not generally ordered of contacts for the sale of commodities or of government
stock, or of shares which are readily available in the market. On the other
hand a contract to subscribe for shares in a company is specifically
enforceable and so is a contract to buy shares which are not readily available
in the market even (it seems) although the directors of the company have a
discretion to refuse, to register the transfer."
76\. Mr. Shelat has submitted that since the shares are movable property and
the shares of defendant No. 1-company are available in the market just as
defendant No. 2 has purchased thousands of shares from the open market and the
shares sold by defendant No. 2 to defendant No. 6 are not only those shares
which defendant No. 2 had purchased from the plaintiff in October, 1993, but
also other shares which it had purchased from the open market specific
performance of the alleged contract for sale of shares or their right of first
refusal cannot be enforced. In para. 8 of the affidavit in reply, the
following assertion is made.
"8. I submit that no specific performance ought to be granted in respect of an
agreement for the sale of shares of a company where there is a regular market
for the shares of that company. I gay that the trading figures at the Bombay
and the National Stock Exchanges reveal that from November, 1996, to July,
1997, there was large scale trading in the shares of defendant No. 1.
Consequently the present case is not one where specific performance is the
proper remedy. Assuming whilst denying that defendant No. 2 has committed a
breach of the purported agreement, I submit that the plaintiffs ought to be
left to the remedy of damages at law."
77\. It is further submitted that the plaintiff is basically interested in
money as is clear from its various letters and the plaintiff has also prayed
for the alternative relief of damages. Damages would be adequate remedy in
case the plaintiff ultimately succeeds and, therefore, also the court should
not consider the plaintiff's prayer for interim injunction. There is
considerable force in the submission of behalf on the contesting defendants.
78\. It is required to be noted that the present shareholding of the plaintiff
in defendant No. 1-company is about five million shares out of a total 12.82
million equity shares which works out to about 39 per cent. The shares which
are the subject-matter of the present suit being 3,81,000 shares constitute
only 3.87 per cent. of the total shareholding which the plaintiff is presently
holding in defendant No. 1-company and, therefore, also damages would be an
adequate remedy and there is no ground for giving specific performance of the
alleged contract even if the plaintiff were to finally succeed at the
conclusion of the suit.
Issue VI :
In view of the aforesaid discussion, it is not necessary to consider Mr.
Vakil's submissions on the merits in so far as the prayer for injunction
against defendant No. 1 from registering the transfer of shares from
defendants Nos. 2 and 8 to defendants Nos. 6 and 7 is concerned. We may only
note the two preliminary submissions of Mr. Shelat. Firstly defendant No.
1-company itself returned the transfer forms to defendant No. 5 who had
presented the same on behalf of defendants Nos. 2 and 8 and, therefore, the
above referred prayer is not required to be considered. Secondly, Mr. Shelat
submitted that if the injunction is granted by this court it would only mean
that the board of directors will be required to commit an offence as defendant
No. 1 will be rendered incapable of complying with the mandatory statutory
requirement of taking a decision to register or refuse to register the
transfer of shares within two months from the date on which the instrument of
transfer is delivered to the company. This court is not required to consider
the submissions of Mr. Vakil of the merits or the preliminary defences of Mr.
Shelat in the view that this court has taken that the civil court has no
jurisdiction to entertain a suit for a remedy for enforcement, observance or
compliance of the rights or obligations created by Or under the Companies Act.
Conclusions :
In view of the aforesaid discussion, the conclusions are as under :
(I) The jurisdiction of the civil court is not barred in so far as the reliefs
claimed are based on the claim for pre-emption in respect of the shares in
question. Whether the court can or would grant such relief in view of the
concept of free transferability of shares is a question on the merits and it
does not affect the jurisdiction of the civil court to entertain such suit.
(II) The plaintiff has raised a triable question about existence or otherwise
of the agreement conferring upon the plaintiff the right of first refusal in
the case of sale of shares by defendant No. 2 to any other party though this
finding need not be treated as a finding that the plaintiff has made out a
prima facie case about the existence of the agreement. All that is held at
this stage is that the issue about existence of the agreement is a triable
issue and it can be decided after the evidence is led.
(III) In view of the concept of free transferability of shares as embodied in
sections 82 and 111A(2) of the Companies Act and expounded by the Supreme
Court in V. B. Rangaraj's case [1992] 73 Comp Cas 201 and followed in the case
of Gujarat Bottling Co. Ltd. v. Coca Cola Co. [1995] 84 Comp Cas 618, the
alleged agreement for pre-emption is not binding on any of the defendants.
(IV) The plaintiff has not made out any case for interim injunction against
transfer of shares by defendants Nos. 2 and 8 to defendants Nos. 6 and 7 or to
any party as ultimately even if the plaintiff succeeds in the suit, it will be
entitled to get damages which would be an adequate remedy. The balance of
convenience is also not in favour of the plaintiff.
(V) As far as reliefs claimed by the plaintiff for permanently and temporarily
restraining defendant No. 1-company from registering the transfer of shares
from defendants Nos. 2 and 8 to defendants Nos. 6 and 7 are concerned, the
civil court has no jurisdiction to entertain the present suit as the suit is
impliedly barred by the provisions of the Companies Act, 1956, which create a
special forum in the Company Law Board for remedies as provided in section
111A of the Companies Act in respect of all the special rights and obligations
flowing from one provisions of the Companies Act.
(VI) In view of the aforesaid finding on issue V, this court has not examined
the merits of the contentions for injunction to restrain defendant No.
1-company from registering the transfer of shares.
79\. Before parting with the matter, this court would like to place on record
the valuable assistance rendered by S. B. Vakil, for the appellant as well as
Mr. Shelat for the respondent on interesting questions of law which are bound
to assume much more importance in the days to come.
Order :
In the result the appeal deserves to be dismissed and is hereby dismissed. In
the facts and circumstances of the case, there shall be no orders as to costs.
80\. As the appeal is dismissed, the stay applicatio is also dismissed. Ad
interim relief granted earlier stands vacated.
81\. At this stage, Mr. Vakil learned counsel for the appellant prays that the
ad interim relief granted earlier, may be continued for six weeks to enable
the appellant to carry the matter in appeal. In the facts and circumstances of
the case, ad interim relief granted earlier shall continue till November 21,
1997.
special forum in the Company Law Board for remedies as provided in section
111A of the Companies Act in respect of all the special rights and obligations
flowing from one provisions of the Companies Act.
(VI) In view of the aforesaid finding on issue V, this court has not examined
the merits of the contentions for injunction to restrain defendant No.
1-company from registering the transfer of shares.
79\. Before parting with the matter, this court would like to place on record
the valuable assistance rendered by S. B. Vakil, for the appellant as well as
Mr. Shelat for the respondent on interesting questions of law which are bound
to assume much more importance in the days to come.
Order :
In the result the appeal deserves to be dismissed and is hereby dismissed. In
the facts and circumstances of the case, there shall be no orders as to costs.
80\. As the appeal is dismissed, the stay applicatio is also dismissed. Ad
interim relief granted earlier stands vacated.
81\. At this stage, Mr. Vakil learned counsel for the appellant prays that the
amounting to 3.87 per cent. of the total equity capital were sold by the
plaintiff to defendant No. 2, a foreign institutional investor (FII), in
October, 1993, and the said transfer was registered by the company in
December, 1993. Defendant No. 2 (through defendant No. 8 also an FII),
thereafter, sold 5,89,000 shares to defendants Nos. 6 and 7 (also FIIs)
between March and November, 1996, and defendant No. 2 sold 1,19,000 shares to
the plaintiff in June, 1997. Claiming a right of pre-emption, the plaintiff
has filed the present suit for a decree against defendant No. 2 (FII) to
execute transfer forms in respect of the suit shares (i.e., 3,81,000 shares),
at the price at which defendants Nos. 2 and 8 executed transfer forms in
favour of defendants Nos. 6 and 7 and in the alternative the plaintiff has
prayed for a decree of Rs. 5.25 crores by way of damages in lieu of specific
performance against defendant No. 2.
3\. The plaintiff has taken out the present notice of motion for an interim
injunction to restrain defendant No. 2 from alienating, encumbering, dealing
with or creating any third party rights or selling 3,81,000 shares to any
person and also to restrain defendant No. 1 (i.e., Gujarat Gas) from
registering the transfer of 3,81,000 shares or any party thereof in favour of
any person and has also prayed for appointment of a receiver to take
possession of the share certificates and transfer forms of the suit shares,
special forum in the Company Law Board for remedies as provided in section
111A of the Companies Act in respect of all the special rights and obligations
flowing from one provisions of the Companies Act.
(VI) In view of the aforesaid finding on issue V, this court has not examined
the merits of the contentions for injunction to restrain defendant No.
1-company from registering the transfer of shares.
79\. Before parting with the matter, this court would like to place on record
the valuable assistance rendered by S. B. Vakil, for the appellant as well as
Mr. Shelat for the respondent on interesting questions of law which are bound
to assume much more importance in the days to come.
Order :
In the result the appeal deserves to be dismissed and is hereby dismissed. In
the facts and circumstances of the case, there shall be no orders as to costs.
80\. As the appeal is dismissed, the stay applicatio is also dismissed. Ad
interim relief granted earlier stands vacated.
81\. At this stage, Mr. Vakil learned counsel for the appellant prays that the
amounting to 3.87 per cent. of the total equity capital were sold by the
plaintiff to defendant No. 2, a foreign institutional investor (FII), in
October, 1993, and the said transfer was registered by the company in
December, 1993. Defendant No. 2 (through defendant No. 8 also an FII),
thereafter, sold 5,89,000 shares to defendants Nos. 6 and 7 (also FIIs)
between March and November, 1996, and defendant No. 2 sold 1,19,000 shares to
the plaintiff in June, 1997. Claiming a right of pre-emption, the plaintiff
has filed the present suit for a decree against defendant No. 2 (FII) to
execute transfer forms in respect of the suit shares (i.e., 3,81,000 shares),
at the price at which defendants Nos. 2 and 8 executed transfer forms in
favour of defendants Nos. 6 and 7 and in the alternative the plaintiff has
prayed for a decree of Rs. 5.25 crores by way of damages in lieu of specific
performance against defendant No. 2.
3\. The plaintiff has taken out the present notice of motion for an interim
injunction to restrain defendant No. 2 from alienating, encumbering, dealing
with or creating any third party rights or selling 3,81,000 shares to any
person and also to restrain defendant No. 1 (i.e., Gujarat Gas) from
registering the transfer of 3,81,000 shares or any party thereof in favour of
any person and has also prayed for appointment of a receiver to take
possession of the share certificates and transfer forms of the suit shares,
special forum in the Company Law Board for remedies as provided in section
111A of the Companies Act in respect of all the special rights and obligations
flowing from one provisions of the Companies Act.
(VI) In view of the aforesaid finding on issue V, this court has not examined
the merits of the contentions for injunction to restrain defendant No.
1-company from registering the transfer of shares.
79\. Before parting with the matter, this court would like to place on record
the valuable assistance rendered by S. B. Vakil, for the appellant as well as
Mr. Shelat for the respondent on interesting questions of law which are bound
to assume much more importance in the days to come.
Order :
In the result the appeal deserves to be dismissed and is hereby dismissed. In
the facts and circumstances of the case, there shall be no orders as to costs.
80\. As the appeal is dismissed, the stay applicatio is also dismissed. Ad
interim relief granted earlier stands vacated.
81\. At this stage, Mr. Vakil learned counsel for the appellant prays that the
amounting to 3.87 per cent. of the total equity capital were sold by the
plaintiff to defendant No. 2, a foreign institutional investor (FII), in
October, 1993, and the said transfer was registered by the company in
December, 1993. Defendant No. 2 (through defendant No. 8 also an FII),
thereafter, sold 5,89,000 shares to defendants Nos. 6 and 7 (also FIIs)
between March and November, 1996, and defendant No. 2 sold 1,19,000 shares to
the plaintiff in June, 1997. Claiming a right of pre-emption, the plaintiff
has filed the present suit for a decree against defendant No. 2 (FII) to
execute transfer forms in respect of the suit shares (i.e., 3,81,000 shares),
at the price at which defendants Nos. 2 and 8 executed transfer forms in
favour of defendants Nos. 6 and 7 and in the alternative the plaintiff has
prayed for a decree of Rs. 5.25 crores by way of damages in lieu of specific
performance against defendant No. 2.
3\. The plaintiff has taken out the present notice of motion for an interim
injunction to restrain defendant No. 2 from alienating, encumbering, dealing
with or creating any third party rights or selling 3,81,000 shares to any
person and also to restrain defendant No. 1 (i.e., Gujarat Gas) from
registering the transfer of 3,81,000 shares or any party thereof in favour of
any person and has also prayed for appointment of a receiver to take
possession of the share certificates and transfer forms of the suit shares,
pending the hearing and final disposal of the suit. The trial court has
dismissed the notice of motion. Hence, this appeal by the plaintiff.
4\. Before narrating the contentions urged by learned counsel for the parties,
it is necessary to refer to the relevant dates and events in chronological
order in order to appreciate the controversy between the parties.
Facts :
In 1980, Gujarat Gas was jointly promoted by the plaintiff and defendant No. 4
- Gujarat Industrial Investment Corporation - GIIC which is a Government of
Gujarat undertaking. The authorised share capital of Gujarat Gas is
1,28,25,000 equity shares of Rs. 10 each. As per clause 2.20 of the
shareholders' agreement between the said promoters executed on April 23, 1991,
special forum in the Company Law Board for remedies as provided in section
111A of the Companies Act in respect of all the special rights and obligations
flowing from one provisions of the Companies Act.
(VI) In view of the aforesaid finding on issue V, this court has not examined
the merits of the contentions for injunction to restrain defendant No.
1-company from registering the transfer of shares.
79\. Before parting with the matter, this court would like to place on record
the valuable assistance rendered by S. B. Vakil, for the appellant as well as
Mr. Shelat for the respondent on interesting questions of law which are bound
to assume much more importance in the days to come.
Order :
In the result the appeal deserves to be dismissed and is hereby dismissed. In
the facts and circumstances of the case, there shall be no orders as to costs.
80\. As the appeal is dismissed, the stay applicatio is also dismissed. Ad
interim relief granted earlier stands vacated.
81\. At this stage, Mr. Vakil learned counsel for the appellant prays that the
amounting to 3.87 per cent. of the total equity capital were sold by the
plaintiff to defendant No. 2, a foreign institutional investor (FII), in
October, 1993, and the said transfer was registered by the company in
December, 1993. Defendant No. 2 (through defendant No. 8 also an FII),
thereafter, sold 5,89,000 shares to defendants Nos. 6 and 7 (also FIIs)
between March and November, 1996, and defendant No. 2 sold 1,19,000 shares to
the plaintiff in June, 1997. Claiming a right of pre-emption, the plaintiff
has filed the present suit for a decree against defendant No. 2 (FII) to
execute transfer forms in respect of the suit shares (i.e., 3,81,000 shares),
at the price at which defendants Nos. 2 and 8 executed transfer forms in
favour of defendants Nos. 6 and 7 and in the alternative the plaintiff has
prayed for a decree of Rs. 5.25 crores by way of damages in lieu of specific
performance against defendant No. 2.
3\. The plaintiff has taken out the present notice of motion for an interim
injunction to restrain defendant No. 2 from alienating, encumbering, dealing
with or creating any third party rights or selling 3,81,000 shares to any
person and also to restrain defendant No. 1 (i.e., Gujarat Gas) from
registering the transfer of 3,81,000 shares or any party thereof in favour of
any person and has also prayed for appointment of a receiver to take
possession of the share certificates and transfer forms of the suit shares,
pending the hearing and final disposal of the suit. The trial court has
dismissed the notice of motion. Hence, this appeal by the plaintiff.
4\. Before narrating the contentions urged by learned counsel for the parties,
it is necessary to refer to the relevant dates and events in chronological
order in order to appreciate the controversy between the parties.
Facts :
In 1980, Gujarat Gas was jointly promoted by the plaintiff and defendant No. 4
- Gujarat Industrial Investment Corporation - GIIC which is a Government of
Gujarat undertaking. The authorised share capital of Gujarat Gas is
1,28,25,000 equity shares of Rs. 10 each. As per clause 2.20 of the
shareholders' agreement between the said promoters executed on April 23, 1991,
special forum in the Company Law Board for remedies as provided in section
111A of the Companies Act in respect of all the special rights and obligations
flowing from one provisions of the Companies Act.
(VI) In view of the aforesaid finding on issue V, this court has not examined
the merits of the contentions for injunction to restrain defendant No.
1-company from registering the transfer of shares.
79\. Before parting with the matter, this court would like to place on record
the valuable assistance rendered by S. B. Vakil, for the appellant as well as
Mr. Shelat for the respondent on interesting questions of law which are bound
to assume much more importance in the days to come.
Order :
In the result the appeal deserves to be dismissed and is hereby dismissed. In
the facts and circumstances of the case, there shall be no orders as to costs.
80\. As the appeal is dismissed, the stay applicatio is also dismissed. Ad
interim relief granted earlier stands vacated.
81\. At this stage, Mr. Vakil learned counsel for the appellant prays that the
