Supreme Court of India
State Of Bihar Etc. Etc vs P.P. Sharma, Ias And Anr on 2 April, 1991
Equivalent citations: 1991 AIR 1260, 1991 SCR (2) 1
Author: K Singh
Bench: Kuldip Singh (J)
               PETITIONER:
    STATE OF BIHAR ETC. ETC.
    	Vs.
    RESPONDENT:
    P.P. SHARMA, IAS AND ANR.
    DATE OF JUDGMENT02/04/1991
    BENCH:
    KULDIP SINGH (J)
    BENCH:
    KULDIP SINGH (J)
    RAMASWAMY, K.
    CITATION:
     1991 AIR 1260		  1991 SCR  (2)	  1
     1992 SCC  Supl.  (1) 222 JT 1991 (2)	147
     1991 SCALE  (1)539
> no useful purpose is likely to be served by allowing a criminal prosecution
> to continue, the court may while taking into consideration the special facts
> of a case also quash the proceedings even  50 though it may be at a
> preliminary stage."
Therefore, the ratio therein is of no assistance to the facts in this case. It
cannot be considered that this court laid down as a preposition of law that in
every case the court would examine at the preliminary stage whether there
would be ultimate chances of conviction on the basis of allegation and
exercise of the power under s.482 or Art. 226 to quash the proceedings or the
charge-sheet. In Sirajiddin's case the Madras High Court and this Court,
though noticed serious infirmity committed in the course of investigation by
the investigating officer did not quash the charge-sheet.
I am contrained to hold that the learned Judges have committed gravest errors
of law in quashing the F.I.R. and Charge-sheets. Since the proceedings are yet
to start I decline to go into the merits of the respective contentions, though
vehemently argued by Shri R.K. Jain, on merits, and Kapil Sibal in rebuttal
     1991 SCALE  (1)539
    ACT:
          Constitution  of India, 1950: Article 226-High  Court-
    When  and  under what circumstances would  be  justified  to
    quash  charge  sheet before cognizance of offence  taken  by
    criminal court.
          Code  of	Criminal Procedure:  Sections,	173,194,197-
    Investigation-Powers  of Police-Intereference by Court	when
    arises.
    HEADNOTE:
          The   Bihar   State   Co-operative   Marketing   Union
    (BISCOMAUN)  is	 the  sole  purchaser  and  distributor	  of
    fertilizers  in	 the State.  When the BISCOMAUN was  at	 the
    brink  of  liquidation	due  to	 mismanagement,	 the   State
    Government  superseded its Board of Directors and  appointed
    R.K.  Singh,  I.A.S.,  as  its	Administrator  and  Managing
    Director on July,30,1988.
          In  the  course of the discharge of his  duties,	R.K.
    Singh noted that financial irregularities had been committed
    by P.P. Sharma, the first respondent, Genesh Dutt Misra, the
    second	respondent, and Tapeshwar Singh, in the purchase  of
    fertilizers for distribution in the State.   At the relevant
    time,  P.P. Sharma was the managing Director  of  BISCOMAUN,
    Genesh	Dutt  Misra  its advisor, and  Tapeshwar  Singh	 its
    Chairman.
          R.K.   Singh  laid  the  information   regarding	 the
    financial  irregularities before the Station House  Officer,
    Gandhi	Maidan Police Station, Patna on	 September  1, 1988.
    The substratum of the accusations made against them was that
    they  had  conspired with the  Rajasthan  Multi	 Fertilizers
    Private	 Limited,  through its partners, to  cause  wrongful
    gains  to the company and wrongful loss to the BISCOMAUN  in
    the matter of purchase of sub-standard fertilizers from	 the
    Company.
          On  the  basis of the report, a  case  under  sections
    409,420,468,469,471,120B,  I.P.C.,  and	 section  7  of	 the
    Essential  Commodities	Act, was  registered  against  eight
    persons	 including Tapeshwar Singh, P.P. Sharma, and  Ganesh
    Dutt Misra.  Four other accused persons were the partners of
    the  Company,  and  the fifth one was an  Assistant  in	 the
    						       2
    department who was alleged to have forged the test reports.
          The investigation in the case was completed by  police
    and two police reports, one under section 7 of the Essential
    Commodities Act and the other under various sections of	 the
    I.P.C., were submitted before the Competent Court in October
    1988.	The Special Judge Patna heard the arguments  of	 the
    parties	 on  various  dates between  January  9,  1989,	 and
    January	 31,  1989 on the question as to whether  there	 was
    sufficient   material	in  the	 police	 reports   to	take
    cognizance  of	various	 offences  projected  therein.	  On
    January	 31,  1989 the learned Special Judge  concluded	 the
    arguments and reserved the orders.
          Tapeshwar	 Singh and P.P. Sharma filed writ  petitions
    before	the  Patna High Court praying for  quashing  of	 the
    First  Information Report and the police reports.  The	High
    Court allowed the writ petitions and quashed the FIR and the
    criminal proceedings against the accused petitioners.
          The High Court, on appreciation of the documents which
    were produced before it, as annexures to the writ petitions,
    came to the conclusions that no prima facie offence was made
    out  against  the respondents; that  though  the  annexures,
    being  part of BISCO-records, were to the knowledge of	R.K.
    Singh,	he closed his eyes to the facts contained  in  these
    documents and acted in a mala-fide manner in lodging of	 FIR
    against the respondents on false facts; that the prosecution
    was vitiated because G.N. Sharma, the Investigating officer,
    acted  with  malice in refusing to take the  annexures	into
    consideration; and that no case under Essential	 Commodities
    Act was made out from the police reports and other documents
    on  record.  The High Court further held that the  composite
    order  granting	 sanction  under  section  197	Cr.P.C.	 and
    section	 15-A of the Essential Commodities Act was  vitiated
    because	 of  non  application of mind on  the  part  of	 the
    competent  authority;  and that the F.I.R.  and	 the  Charge
    Sheets violated the constitutional mandate under Article  21
    of the Constitution.
          The  instant appeals are against the judgment  of	 the
    High  Court,  and the appellants are Girija  Nandan  Sharma,
    S.P.  CID,  Patna,  the investigator, and  R.K.	 Singh,	 the
    informant, along with the State of Bihar.
          Before  this Court it was contended on behalf  of	 the
    appellants  that  the  High Court in  the  exercise  of	 its
    extraordinary jurisdiction committed a grave error in taking
    into  consideration  the  affidavits  and  docu-
    						       3
    ments  filed  alongwith the writ petitions; the	 High  Court
    virtually usurped the jurisdiction of the Magistrate/Special
    Judge by appreciating the affidavits and documents  produced
    before	it and reaching conclusions contrary to the  charge-
    sheets	(police reports) submitted by the police;  the	High
    Court  was not justified in quashing the proceeding  at	 the
    stage  when the Special Judge was seized of the	 matter	 and
    was in the process of appreciating the material contained in
    the  police reports; and that the allegations if the  police
    reports, if taken as correct, disclosed the commission of  a
    cognizable offence by the respondents.
          On   the	other  hand,  it  was  contended  that	 the
    prosecution  against  the  respondents was  initiated  as  a
    result	 of  malice  on	 the  part  of	informant  and	 the
    investigating officer; and the mala-fides on the part of the
    informant  and the investigating officer was  writ-large  on
    the   facts of the case, that the composite  order  granting
    sanction  under section 197 Cr.P.C. and section 15-A of	 the
    Essential  Commodities	Act  was vitiated  because  of	non-
    application of mind on the part of the competent  authority;
    and   that   when   the	 evidence   collected	during	 the
    investigation  was  not unimpeachable, the  prosecution	 and
    continuance  of	 the proceedings offended  the	respondents'
    right  to life and livelihood enshrined under Article 21  of
    the constitution.
          Allowing	the appeals, setting aside the	judgment  of
    the  High Court and dismissing the writ petitions  filed  by
    the respondents before the High Court & this Court.
          HELD : Per Kuldip Singh, J.
          (1)  The	High Court fell into grave error  and  acted
    with patent illegality in quashing the criminal	 proceedings
    on the basis of the findings which were wholly wayward.[29D]
          R.P.  Kapur  v.  State of	 Punjab,[1960]	3  SCR	388,
    referred to.
          (2)   The	 High  Court  erred  in	  appreciating	 the
    annexures/documents, which were produced by the	 respondents
    along  with  their  writ petitions,  and  further  erred  in
    delving	 into  disputed questions of fact  while  exercising
    jurisdiction under Article 226/227 of the Constitution.[24E]
          (3)  By treating the annexures which were neither part
    of   the  police  reports  nor	were  relied  upon  by	 the
    Investigating Officer, as evidence, the High Court converted
    itself	into a trial court.  The High Court could  not	have
    assumed	 this jurisdiction and put an end to the
    						       4
    process	 of investigation and trial provided under the	law.
    [28E]
          (4)   The	 question  of mala-fide	 exercise  of  power
    assumed significance only when the criminal prosecution	 was
    initiated   on	 extraneous  considerations   and   for	  an
    unauthorised purpose. [24G]
         (5)      The  allegations	of  mala-fide  against	 the
    informant  based on the facts after the lodging of  the	 FIR
    were  of  no  consequence and could not	 be  the  basis	 for
    quashing the proceedings. [25D]
          (6)  There was no material whatsoever in this case  to
    show that on the date when the FIR was lodged by R.K.  Singh
    he  was	 activated  by	bias  or  had  any  reason   to	 act
    maliciously.   The dominant purpose of registering the	case
    against	 the respondents was to have an investigation	done
    into  the allegations contained in the FIR and in the  event
    of  there  being  sufficient  material	in  support  of	 the
    allegations  to present the charge-sheet before	 the  court.
    There  was no material to show that the dominant object	 of
    registering the case was the character assassination of	 the
    respondents or to harass and humiliate them. [24H-25A]
          When  the information is lodged at the police  station
    and  an	 offence  is  registered,  the	mala-fides  of	 the
    informant  would  be  of secondary importance.	 It  is	 the
    material  collected during the investigation  which  decides
    the fate of the accused person. [25B]
          State of Bihar v. J.A.C Saldhana & Ors.,[1980] 2SCR 16
    and  State of Haryana v. Ch. Bhajan Lal, J.T.  (1990)4	S.C.
    655, referred to.
          (7) When the police report under section 173 Cr.	P.C.
    had to go through the judicial scrutiny, it was not open  to
    the  High  Court to find fault with the same on	 the  ground
    that certain documents were not taken into consideration  by
    the investigating officer. [25G]
          (8)  Simply because the Investigating  Officer,  while
    acting	bona fide ruled out certain documents as  irrelevant,
    it was no ground to assume that he acted mala-fide.[25E]
          (9) The sanction under section 197 Cr. P.C. was not an
    empty  formality.   It	was essential  that  the  provisions
    therein were observed with complete strictness.	 The  object
    of  obtaining  sanction	 was that  the	authority  concerned
    should	be able to consider for itself the  material  before
    the  investigating officer, before it came to the conclusion
    that  the prosecution in the circumstances be sanctioned  or
    forbidden.  To com-
    						       5
    ply  with  the provisions of section 197 it must  be  proved
    that  the  sanction  was  given	 in  respect  of  the  facts
    constituting the offence charged.  It was desirable that the
    facts  should  be referred to on the face of  the  sanction.
    [28E]
          (10) Section 197 did not require the sanction to be in
    any particular form.  If the facts constituting the  offence
    charged	 were not shown on the fact of the sanction, it	 was
    open  to  the prosecution, if challenged,  to  prove  before
    court  that those facts were placed before  the	 sanctioning
    authority.  It should be clear from the form of the sanction
    that  the  sanctioning	authority  considered  the  relevant
    material  placed before it and after a consideration of	 all
    the  circumstances of the case sanctioned  the	prosecution.
    [28F]
          (11)  In	the  present  case  the	 investigation	 was
    complete on the date of sanction and police reports had been
    filed before the Magistrate.  The sanctioning authority	 had
    specifically mentioned in the sanction order that the papers
    and the case diary had been taken into consideration  before
    granting the sanctions. [28G]
          (12)   Case diary was a complete record of the  police
    investigation.	 It contained total material in	 support  or
    otherwise  of  the allegations.	 The  sanctioning  authority
    having	taken the case diary into consideration	 before	 the
    grant  of sanction, it could not be said that there  was  no
    application   of  mind	on  the	 part  of  the	 sanctioning
    authority.[28H-29A]
          (13)   The findings of the High Court that no  offence
    was  made  out against the respondents under  the  Essential
    Commodities  Act was also based on the appreciation of	`the
    annexures'  and	 other disputed facts on the record  and  as
    such was untenable for the same reasons. [29C]
          Per K. Ramaswamy, J.
          (1)   Grossest error of law has been committed by	 the
    High  Court  in	 making	 pre-trial of  a  criminal  case  in
    exercising  its	 extraordinary jurisdiction  under  Art.226.
    [49B]
          State of West Bengal v. Swaran Kumar, [1982] 3 SCR 121
    and  Madhaorao J. Scindia v. Sambhaji Rao, [1988] 1 SCC	 692
    distinguished.
          (2)  Quashing the Charge Sheet even before cognizance
    is  taken  by a criminal Court amounts to "killing  a  still
    born  child".  Till the criminal court takes  cognizance  of
    the offence there is no criminal proceeding pending. [48C]
    						       6
          (3)  The arms of the High Court are long enough,	when
    exercising its prerogative discretionary power under Art.226
    of the constitution, to reach injustice wherever it is found
    in  the judicial or quasi-judicial process of any  Court  or
    Tribunal  or authority within its jurisdiction.	 But  it  is
    hedged with self imposed limitation. [32C]
          (4)  The Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 gives to the
    police unfettered power to investigate all cases where	they
    suspect	 a  cognizable offence has been	 committed.   In  an
    appropriate  case  an  aggrieved person can  always  seek  a
    remedy	by invoking the power of the High Court	 under	Art.
    226 of the Constitution.  If the court could   be  convinced
    that  the  power of investigation has been  exercised  by  a
    police	officer	 mala  fide,  a	 mandamus  could  be  issued
    restraining  the  investigator to misuse his  legal  powers.
    [35B]
          S.N. Sharma v. Bipen Kumar Tiwari & Ors., [1970] 3 SCR
    945; State of Bihar & Anr. v. J.A.C. Saldanha & Ors., [1980]
    1  SCC 554; State of West Bengal v. Sampat Lal,[1985] 1	 SCC
    317;  Municipal	 Corporation  of Delhi	v.  Purshottam	Dass
    Jhunjunwala & Ors., [1983] 1 SCC 9 and Abhinandan Jha & Ors.
    v. Dinesh Mishra, [1967] 3 SCR 668, referred to.
          (5)   The function of the judiciary in the  course  of
    investigation by the police should be complementary and full
    freedom	 should be accorded to the investigator	 to  collect
    the  evidence connecting the chain of events leading to	 the
    discovery of the truth, viz., the proof of the commission of
    the crime. [37D]
          King Emperor v. Khwaja Nazir Ahmad, 76 Indian  Appeals
    203  and  Jamuna  Chaudhary  v. State of Bihar,	 3  SCC	 774
    (1974), referred to.
          (6) The determination of a plea of mala fide  involves
    two  questions, namely (i) whether there is a personal	bias
    or  an oblique motive; and (ii) whether	 the  administrative
    action	 is  contrary  to  the	objects,  requirements	 and
    conditions  of	a valid exercise  of  administrative  power.
    [38E]
          (7)   A  complainant when he lodges a  report  to	 the
    Station House Officer accusing a person of commission of  an
    offence, often may be person aggrieved, but rarely a probono
    publico.   Therefore,  inherent animosity is  licit  and  by
    itself is not tended to cloud the veracity of the accusation
    suspected  to have been committed, provided it is  based  on
    factual foundation. [39A-B]
    						       7
          (8)   The person against whom mala fides or  bias	 was
    imputed should be impleaded co-nominee as a party respondent
    to  the proceedings and given an opportunity to	 meet  those
    allegations.   In  his/her  absence no	enquiry	 into  those
    allegations would be made.  Otherwise it itself is violative
    of  the	 principles  of natural justice, as  it	 amounts  to
    condemning  a  person without an  opportunity.	 Admittedly,
    both R.K. Singh and G.N. Sharma were not impleaded.  [40A-B]
          (9) The finding of the High Court that the mala  fides
    of   the  Investigating	 Officer  was  established  by	 the
    subsequent   conduct  of  his  participation  in  the	writ
    proceedings  was obviously illegal.  When the  investigation
    was  subject matter of the challenge in the court, it  would
    be  obvious  that the investigator alone was to	 defend	 the
    case; he had to file the counter affidavit and to appear  in
    the proceedings on behalf of the State. [41F]
          State of Bihar v. J.A. Saldana, AIR 1980 SC326.
          (10) Before countenancing allegations of mala fides or
    bias  it is salutory and an onerous duty and  responsibility
    of  the	 court not only to insist upon making  specific	 and
    definite  allegations  of  personal  animosity	against	 the
    Investigating Officer at the start of the investigation	 but
    also must insist to establish and prove then from the  facts
    and circumstances to the satisfaction of the court.  [42D]
          (11)   Mere assertion or a vague or bald statement  of
    mala  fides  was not sufficient.  It  must  be	demonstrated
    either	by  admitted  or  proved  facts	 and   circumstances
    obtainable in a given case.  [38F]
          (12)  Malice  in law could be inferred from  doing  of
    wrongful act intentionally without any just cause or  excuse
    or without there being reasonable relation to the purpose of
    the exercise of statutory power.  [42G]
          (13)   Malice  in	 law is	 not  established  from	 the
    omission  to consider some documents said to be relevant  to
    the accused.  Equally, reporting  the commission of a  crime
    to  the	 Station  House	 Officer cannot	 be  held  to  be  a
    colourable  exercise  of power with bad faith  or  fraud  on
    power. [42H]
          (14)   The findings of the High Court that F.I.R.	 got
    vitiated  by the  mala fides of the Administration  and	 the
    charge	sheets	were the results of the mala  fides  of	 the
    informant or investigator, to say the least, was
    						       8
    fantastic and obvious gross error of law. [43C]
          State  of Haryana v. Bhajanlal,J.T. (1990) 4  SC	655,
    referred to.
          (15) An investigating officer who is not sensitive  to
    the  constitutional mandates, may be prone to  trample	upon
    the personal liberty of a person when he is actuated by mala
    fides.	 But the accused at the earliest should bring to the
    notice of the court of the personal bias and his  reasonable
    belief that an objective investigation into the crime  would
    not be had at the hands of the investigator by pleading	 and
    proving	 as of facts with necessary materials facts.  If  he
    stands by till the chargesheet was filed, it must be assumed
    that  he  had waived his objection.  He	 cannot	 turn  round
    after  seeing the adverse report to plead the  alleged	mala
    fides. [43H-44A]
          (16)  The	 finding of the High Court that	 the  F.I.R.
    charge-sheet violated the constitutional mandate under	Art.
    21 was without substance.[44B]
          (17)  The order of sanction is only an  administrative
    act  and not a quasi judicial nor alis involved.  The  order
    of  sanction  need not contain detailed reasons	 in  support
    thereof.   But the basic facts that constitute	the  offence
    must  be apparent on the impugned order and the record	must
    bear out the reasons in that regard. [46H-47A]
          (18)  Filing of charge-sheet before the court  without
    sanction  per se is not illegal, not a condition  precedent.
    At  any time before taking cognizance of the offence  it  is
    open  to the competent authority to grant sanction  and	 the
    prosecution  is entitled to produce the order  of  sanction.
    [47E]
          State of U.P. v. R.K. Joshi,[1964] 3 SCR 71,  referred
    to.
          (19)  Proper application of mind to the existence of a
    prima  facie  evidence of the commission of the	 offence  is
    only  a pre-condition to grant or refuse to grant  sanction.
    The question of giving an opportunity to the public  servant
    at that stage does not arise. [47B]
          (20)    A	 perusal  of  the  sanction  order   clearly
    indicates that the Govt. appears to have applied its mind to
    the  facts  placed before it and considered  them  and	then
    granted sanction. [47E]
          (21)  The prior sanction by the appropriate Government
    is an
    						       9
    assurance  to  a public servant to  discharge  his  official
    functions diligently, efficiently and honestly without	fear
    or   favour,   without	haunt  of   later   harassment	 and
    victimization,	so  that  he would serve  his  best  in	 the
    interest of the public. [45G]
          Sirajuddin  v.  State  of	 Madras,  [1970]  2SCR	931,
    referred to.
          (22)   The public servant can only be said to  act  or
    purported  to act in the discharge of his official  duty  if
    his  act or omission is such as to lie within the  scope  of
    his  official duty.  It is not every offence committed by  a
    public	servant that requires sanction for prosecution,	 nor
    even every act by him while he actually engaged under colour
    of   his  official  duty  that	receives   protection	from
    prosecution.[46B]
          The  offending act must be integrally  connected	with
    the  discharge	of  duty  and  should  not  be	fanciful  or
    pretended. [45G]
          K.  Satwant Singh v. State of Punjab,[1960] 2 SCR	 89;
    Harihar	 Prasad v. State of Bihar, [1972] 3 SCR 89 and	S.B.
    Saha v. Kochar [1980] 1 SCC 111.
          (23)   Before granting sanction the authority  or	 the
    appropriate  Govt. must have before it the necessary  report
    and  the  material  facts which prima  facie  establish	 the
    commission  of offence charged for and that the	 appropriate
    Government would apply their mind to those facts. [46G]
    JUDGMENT:
CRIMINAL APPELLATE JURISDICTION : Criminal Appeal Nos. 527-28 of 1990 From the
Judgment and Order dated 5.4.1990 of the Patna High Court in Crl. W.J.C. Nos.
90 and 228 of 1989.
WITH CRIMINAL APPEAL NOS. 523-248, 525-26/90 Kapil Sibal, Additional Solicitor
General, P.P. Rao, P.K. Shahi, Mrs. Vimla Sinha, Yunus Malli, Vikash Singh and
L.R. Singh for the Appellants.
Dr. Shankar Ghose R.K. Jain, Rakesh K. Khanna, Surya Kant, Rajan Mahapatra,
Mrs. Sangeeta Tripathi Mandal, Ms. Abha Sharma, Dr. S. Jha and R.P. Gupta for
the Respondents.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by  10 KULDIP SINGH, J. The Bihar
State cooperative Marketing Union Limited (BISCOMAUN) ( hereinafter called
`BISCO') is an apex body operating in the State of Bihar. It is a federation
of Cooperative Societies and its primary function is to supply fertiliser to
farmers through its depots and godowns numbering about 550, spreadover the
State of Bihar.
Shri P.P. Sharma, IAS took over as Managing Director of BISCO on May 26, 1986
and continued to hold the said office till June 14, 1987. From December, 31,
1986 to June 14, 1987 he was also Secretary, Department of Cooperative,
Government of Bihar and Registrar, Cooperative Societies, State of Bihar. G.D.
Mishra was working as Advisor to BISCO during 1986-88. He resigned from the
said post on August 3, 1988\. It may be mentioned that one Tapeshwar Singh was
the Chairman of BISCO during the above said period.
M/s. Rajasthan Multi Fertiliser Pvt. Ltd., Udaipur, Rajasthan (hereinafter
called the `firm') was holding a Certificate of Registration issued on August
8, 1985 by the Director of Agriculture, Bihar. It is alleged that a letter
dated August 19,1986 was addressed by the firm to the Managing Director of
BISCO offering to supply fertiliser of specified grade and quality at Rs.2550
per MT plus local taxes. It may be mentioned that the State of Bihar had
issued a notification dated July 14, 1984 fixing the prices for different
grades of fertilisers. The price of the grade offered by the firm was fixed at
Rs. 2559 per MT under the said notification. The firm sent another letter on
October 5, 1986 repeating its offer contained in its earlier letter. The offer
of the firm was accepted and G.D. Mishra, on November 22, 1986, placed an
order with the firm for supply of 2500 MT of fertiliser (NPK 15:15:72) at Rs.
2509.50 per MT. Thereafter G.D. Mishra placed further order with the firm on
December, 19, 1986 for additional supply of 408 MT of fertiliser on the same
terms. The firm supplied 2916 MT of fertiliser to BISCO. The total price to be
paid to the firm was Rs. 73,16,244. Rs.23.03 lac was paid on December 18,
1986. Thereafter Rs. 30.96 lac was paid on January 22,1987. Thus a total sum
of about Rs. 54 lac was paid to the firm. The samples of the fertiliser
supplied by the firm were got tested by BISCO from Rajendra Agriculture
University, Pusa which were found to be standard.
It is the admitted case of the parties that the fertiliser supplied by the
firm could not be sold to the farmers and huge stock kept on lying in the
godowns of BISCO for long time. The BISCO was manufacturing "Harabahar" brand
of fertiliser at its two factories. It wa ulti-
11
mately decided by the BISCO that the fertiliser which was supplied by the firm
and which was lying in the godowns unsold be used as raw material for the
manufacture of "Harabahar" fertiliser. The fertiliser was thereafter shifted
from various godowns of BISCO to its two factories for conversion into
"Harabahar".
The reports received from the State Laboratory, Mithapur showed the fertiliser
supplied by the firm to be sub-standard. Majority of the samples sent to the
laboratory for testing were found to be sub-standard. It is alleged that G.D.
Mishra on behalf of BISCO wrote a letter dated October 13, 1987 to the firm
requesting to take back the sub-standard fertiliser from eight depots
mentioned in the said letter.
Shri R.K. Singh, IAS took over the charge as the Managing Director of BISCO on
December 29, 1988. The management of BISCO was superseded by an order of the
State Government dated July 30,1988 and R.K. Singh was appointed as an
Administrator.
On September 1,1988 R.K. Singh sent a written report to the Station House
Officer, Police Station Gandhi Maidan, Patna on the basis of which a case
under Sections 409, 420, 468, 469, 471, 120B I.P.C. and 7 of the Essential
Commodities Act was registered against eight persons including Tapeshwar
Singh, P.P. Sharma and G.D. Mishra. Four other accused persons are the
directors of the firm and the fifth one is alleged to have forged the test
report given by the Rajendra Agricultural University, Pusa. It would be useful
to reproduce the First Information Report (hereinafter called `FIR')
hereinafter :
> "FIRST INFORMATION REPORT"
> BIHAR STATE COOPERATIVE MARKETING UNION LTD. BISCOMAUN BHAWAN, WEST GANDHI
> MAIDAN, PATNA-800001 Ref. No. AD/c-70 1.9.1988 The Officer Incharge, Patna
> Kotwali P.S. BISCOMAUN is an institution in the Cooperation Sector and one
> of its main business activities is to purchase fertilisers and to sell it
> through its depots to the farmers of the State. It owns two factories-one at
> Tilrath and the  12 other at Jasidih, which produce mixture fertiliser. It
> is marketed in the brand name of "HARABAHAR".
> In course of checking of the stock of fertilisers lying in the various
> godowns of BISCOMAUN and position of raw materials in the factories, `it was
> detected that huge quantity of unsold `Suraj Brand N.P.K.' mixture
> fertiliser was lying in the depots of BISCOMAUN which was being sent to the
> fertiliser factories of BISCOMAUN to be used as raw-material in the
> manufacture of `HARABAHAR ' (mixture fertiliser). On perusal of the relevant
> files, it transpired that `Suraj Brand N.P.K.' was purchased from a private
> firm namely M/s Rajasthan Multi Fertiliser Pvt. Ltd., Udaipur (Rajasthan).
> It is also evident from the relevant records that the entire transaction for
> the purchase of the `Suraj Brand N.P.K.' from the said firm and its
> utilisation in the manufacture of HARABAHAR was fraudulent and a conspiracy
> for wrongful gain to M/s Rajasthan Multi Fertiliser Pvt. Ltd. and erstwhile
> Chairman of BISCOMAUN, Sri Tapeshwar Singh and some officers responsible for
> the purchase of said sub-standard fertiliser and wrongful loss to the
> institution as well as the farmers of the State of Bihar". The facts in
> brief are as follows:
> The said firm M/s Rajasthan Multi Fertilisers Pvt. Ltd. wrote a letter to
> the Chairman, BISCOMAUN enclosing its previous letter to the Managing
> Director, BISCOMAUN , stating therein that they were manufacturing
> fertilisers under the brand name of `Suraj Brand N.P.K.' (15:15:72) mixture
> fertiliser and they should be favored with orders for supply of the same to
> BISCOMAUN. They quoted the selling rate as Rs.2550 per M.T. plus taxes. The
> letter was not received in the normal course in the office, but was handed
> over direct to the then Chairman. It is also to be noted that the said
> letter was not in response to any advertisement of BISCOMAUN inviting
> offers.
> The Chairman endorsed this letter to Managing Director. This letter was not
> allowed to come down to the office for examination in the normal course. On
> this letter, the then Advisor (Rehabilitation) Shri G.D. Mishra initiated
> the file at his own level and put up a proposal from his  13 own level for
> the purchase of the said fertiliser from the said firm. He has mentioned in
> his note that the question of purchase had been discussed between himself
> and the Chairman and Managing Director. It is clear that the proposal for
> purchase was put up in pursuance to that discussion, after the meeting of
> minds had taken place to order the purchase. Nobody else in the organisation
> was taken into confidence about this proposal. Even the advice of Finance
> was not taken.
> This proposal initiated by Shri G.D. Mishra, Adviser (Rehabilitation) was
> endorsed by the then Managing Director, Sh. P.P. Sharma, for the approval of
> the Chairman and the proposal was approved by the Chairman.
> "No tenders were called for nor any steps were taken to ascertain the
> competitive prices of similar type of fertiliser. Even the quality of the
> fertiliser was not tested before issuance of purchase order. All this was
> done in extreme haste."
> The proposal was accepted on 20.11.1986, and the adviser (Rehabilitation
> (through his letter dated 22.11.1986 placed an order for supply of 2500 mts
> of fertiliser to the firm.
> One of the conditions of the purchase was that the said fertiliser will
> contain nutrient value in proportion 15:15:72 and if it was found that the
> nutrient value is less than the above, the consignment will be rejected. The
> Chemical examination was to be done either in the laboratory of BISCOMAUN or
> any other laboratory approved by the State/Central Government. Contrary to
> this condition, the chemical examination of the fertiliser is said to have
> been carried out by one Dr. S.N. Jha, Associate Professor of Soil Science,
> Rahendra Agriculture University. It is also not clear from the records that
> by whom the samples were collected and sent to the said expert.
According to Fertiliser Control Order, 1957, the sample must be collected by
the Fertiliser Inspectors of the State Government and an analysis must be
conducted in the laboratory of the State/Central Government. Dr. Jha reported
that the samples analysed by him was of the proper grade and standard con-
14
taining nutrient in the proportion of 15:15:72.
The said fertiliser was distributed to the different depots of BISCOMAUN.
Against the decision to purchase 2500 mts. the then Adviser (Rehabilitation)
Shri G.D. Mishra gave dispatch instruction for 2916 mts. to the said firm. It
needs to be pointed out that the said Rajasthan Multi Fertilisers Pvt. Ltd.
had no E.C.A.
Allocation for sale of their product in Bihar. Even then, the management of
BISCOMAUN placed orders for supply of fertilisers with this company.
When the sales of the fertiliser commenced, samples were taken from various
depots in the normal course by the fertiliser Inspectors, who are officers of
the Agriculture Department through out the State and sent to the authorised
laboratories for chemical examination. The analysis revealed that the said
fertiliser was spurious and of sub-standard quality and lacking in nutrient
value. Copies of the result of the chemical analysis are enclosed. The samples
were taken from BISCOMAUN depots of Benibad, Gangaiya, Bochaha, Dholi, Sakra,
Minapur (all from Muzaffarpur) Bihta, Bakhtiarpur, Karbighaiya (Patna),
(Jahanabad).
As per the terms of purchase, the said spurious fertiliser was to be taken
back by the manufacturer at their own cost. Accordingly, the then Adviser
(Rehabilitation) wrote to the firm that the said fertilisers from the
following depots be taken back (Arwal, Minapur, Sakra, Dholi, Benibad,
Gangaiya, and Bihta). It is to be noted that wherever the samples of
fertiliser were analysed they were found to be sub-standard. Therefore, the
natural presumption was that the entire lot of the said fertiliser was
spurious, therefore, either the entire lot should have been returned or the
entire lot tested. Instead of this, the fertiliser from only the depots from
which the samples were taken were directed to be returned. `This was a mala
fide act on the part of the Adviser (Rehabilitation) Shri G.D. Mishra, with an
intention to cause wrongful gain to the supplier and wrongful loss to the
Biscomaun as well as to the farmers of the State. As a matter of fact, he
allowed sale of spurious sub-standard fertiliser to the farmers of the State
from the  15 depots, where from samples were not taken.' There was undue haste
in making payment. The said Rajasthan Multi-Fertiliser Pvt. Ltd. was paid
Rs.23.02 lacs vide sanction dated 17.12.1986. The payment was released inspite
of the fact that it was pointed out in challan No. 206 and 209 by the Depot
Manager that the Fertilisers were not in granulated form and the bags were
non-standard. A further proposal for payment was put up in December-January,
1986-87. Again it was pointed out by the Accountant that the test report was
not received. It was also again pointed out that the supplies were made in
unstandard bags. The Adviser (Rehabilitation) Shri G.D.Mishra over- ruled this
objection and recommended to the Managing director that not only the said bill
of Rs. 13.07 lacs be paid but also two bills of Rs. 12.03 lacs and Rs.5.83
lacs, which had not been examined by the accounts also be paid. This was in
january, 1987. So in fact the fertiliser Company was paid Rs. 23.02 + Rs.
30.94 lacs in January, 1987 itself. In all, out of the total bill (after
deducting shortage) of Rs.65,53,642.11, Rs. 53,97,277.32 had been paid to the
company.
The reports of the fertiliser being sub-
standard started coming from May, 1987. On the 2nd May, 1987, the PEO Bihta
informed that the said Suraj Brand fertiliser was found sub-standard on
chemical analysis. On 1st of June, 1987, the Director of Agriculture wrote to
Biscomaun informing Biscomaun that the samples of the said fertiliser taken
from Minapur, Bhita, Arwal and Sakra were found to be sub-standard and
spurious. On 18.5.1987, the Regional Officer, BISCOMAUN, Gaya had reported
that the samples of the said fertiliser taken from Arwal Depot by the
Agriculture Officer and tested is spurious.
When reports of the the Chemical analysis by the State Laboratory started
coming in and it was found that the said fertiliser was spurious and sub-
standard, the then Management of Biscomaun made a conspiracy to consume the
spurious fertiliser instead of returning it to the manufacturer and claiming
back the money paid.
It has been clarified above that as per the terms of the  16 purchase, the
entire fertiliser of Suraj Brand ought to have been returned to the company
and refund taken. Instead of this, in order to cause wrongful gain to the
company and wrongful loss to Biscomaun and the then Management, as well as to
remove the evidence of the stock of spurious fertilisers, the then Management
of Biscomaun took a decision to reprocess old stock of fertiliser in the two
factories of Biscomaun at Tilrath and Jasidih. It was proposed to the Board
that these fertilisers in the stock of Biscomaun depot, which were very old
and difficult to sell should be used in these two factories for manufacture of
Harabahar. This proposal was put up to the Board on March, 1987. The Board
approved this proposal.
It is to be noted that the Board only approved the proposal to reprocess the
old stock and as the stock of Suraj Brand was not old one, again to suite
their end, a proposal was mooted before the Executive Committee in May, 1987
to reprocess all the stock lying in depots, which was approved. The Executive
Committee could not modify the decision taken by the Board of Directors. The
said Suraj Brand fertiliser could not be said to be an old stock because it
was purchased only in December, 1986. Apart from that, as soon as the
fertiliser was proved to be substandard by the State Laboratory, Biscomaun
should have recovered the amount paid to the company.
However, on the said Executive Committee decision, the management of Biscomaun
along with old stock fertiliser also started transferring the said Suraj Brand
fertiliser to the two factories so that it could be converted into Harabahar
and consumed. It is to be noted that out of 2900 mts. 2500 mts. had remained
unsold by June, 1987. Stocks proved to be spurious and sub-standard were
transferred to the Biscomaun factories at Tilrath and Jasidih for being
converted into Harabahar. The said Suraj Brand material from Benipad, Bochaha,
Gangaiya(Muzaffarpur) from where samples had been taken and fertiliser proved
to be spurious were transferred to the fertiliser factories. It is clear that
the entire reprocessing gimmick was a conspiracy to cause unlawful gain to the
said Rajasthan Multi-Fertiliser Pvt. Ltd. and unlawful personal gain to the
persons involved by consuming spurious fertiliser  17 supplied by them thereby
also causing wrongful loss to Biscomanun and the farmers of the State. Not
only that the aforesaid serious offences were committed, but the provisions of
Fertiliser Control Order, 1957 were also violated by supplying spurious and
sub-standard fertilisers.
It is, therefore, manifest from aforesaid facts that the then Chairman, Sri
Tapeshwar Singh, Managing Director Shri B.P. Sharma, Shri G.D.Mishra had
entered into a criminal conspiracy with Shri O.P.Agarwal, M.D. Narayan Lal
Agrawal, Banshi Lal Agrawal and Gopal Lal Agrawal, Director of Rajasthan Multi
Fertilisers Pvt. Ltd. and thus Biscomaun was cheated of Rs.53,97,277.32.
Tapeshwar Singh and P.P.Sharma accused persons filed Writ Petition 289 of 1988
on September 29, 1988 before the Patna High Court with a prayer that the First
Information Report be quashed. The petition was adjourned to different dates
on the request of the counsel for the petitioners. Meanwhile the investigation
in the case was completed by the police and two police reports, one under
Section 7 of the Essential Commodities Act and the other under various section
of the I.P.C., were submitted before the Competent Court in October, 1988. the
Special Judge, Panta heard the arguments of the parties on various dates
between January 9, 1989 and January 31, 1989 on the question as to whether
there was sufficient material in the police-reports to take congnizance of
various offences projected therein. On January 31, 1989 the learned Special
Judge concluded the arguments and reserved the orders.
Tapeshwar Singh filed Criminal Miscellaneous Petition in the High Court on
February 17, 1989. the High Court stayed further proceedings in the court of
Special Judge, patna. P.P.Sharma filed writ petition 90 of 1989 in Patna High
Court on March 17, 1989 praying for quashing of the First Information Report
and the police-reports. The high Court admitted the writ petition on March 31,
1989 and stayed further proceedings in the Court below. On July 6, 1989
P.P.Sharma withdrew writ petition 289 of 1988. G.D.Mishra field writ petition
228 of 1989 on August 23, 1989 which was ordered to be heard with writ
petition 90 of 1989\. Tapeshwar Singh withdrew writ petition 289 of 1989.
The High Court heard the arguments in writ petition 90 and 228 of 1989 from
November 1, 1989 to February 8, 1990. The bench consisting  18 of S.H.S.Abdi,
S.Hoda, JJ allowed the writ petitions by its judgment dated April 5, 1990 and
quashed the FIR and the criminal proceedings against the accused-petitioners.
These appeals are against the judgment of the High Court via Special Leave
Petitions. In Criminal Appeal Nos.525-26/90 Shri Girija Nandan Sharma, S.P.
CID, Patna, the investigating officer and in Criminal Appeal Nos. 523-24/90
Shri R.K.Singh the informant, are also the appellants along with the State of
Bihar.
Mr. P.P. Rao and Mr. Kapil Sibal, learned senior advocates appearing for the
appellants have contended that the High Court in the exercise of its extra
ordinary jurisdiction committed a grave error in taking into consideration the
affidavits and documents filed alongwith the writ petitions. The counsel
contended that the high Court virtually usurped the jurisdiction of the
Magistrate/Special Judge by appreciating the affidavits and documents produced
before it and reaching conclusions contrary to the charge-sheets (police
reports) submitted by the police. According to the learned counsel two police
reports under Section 173 Cr.P.C. had already been filed in the court and in
fact after hearing the parties at length, on the question of cognizance, the
learned Special Judge had reserved the orders. The counsel contended that the
High Court was not justified in quashing the proceeding at the stage when the
special Judge was seized of the matter and was in the process of appreciating
the material contained in the police reports.
The learned counsel took us through the FIR and other material disclosed in
the police-reports to show that prima facie offence is made out against the
respondents. It is contended that the allegations in the above documents, if
taken as correct, disclose the commission of a cognizable offence by the
respondents.
The learned counsel for the parties have taken us through the judgement of the
High Court which runs into about two hundred pages. Long back in R.P. Kapur v.
State of Punjab, [1960] 3 SCR 388 this Court circumscribed the jurisdiction of
the High Courts to quash criminal proceedings in a given case. The law on the
subject is clear and there is no scope for any ambiguity. The High Court
noticed a score of decisions of this court with abounded quotes therefrom and
yet failed to see the settled legal petition on the subject. The High Court
fell into grave error and acted with patent illegality in quashing the
criminal proceedings on the basis of the findings which are wholly wayward.
19
The High Court on appreciation of the documents produced before it by the
respondents came to the following conclusions :
> 1\. The documents annexures 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 11, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21/1,
> 22, 22/1, 24, 25, 26 and 39 (hereinafter called the annexures') which were
> produced before the High Court as annexures to the writ petitions, were not
> taken into consideration by the Investigating Officer. On appreciation of
> the annexures it was found that no prima facie offence was made out against
> the respondents.
> 2\. the informant R.K. Singh was biased against the respondents. It was
> found that `the annexures', being part of BISCO-records, were to the
> knowledge of R.K. Singh, he closed his eyes to the facts contained in these
> documents and acted in mala fide manner in lodging the FIR against the
> respondents on false facts.
> 3\. The prosecution was vitiated because Shri G.N. Sharma the investigating
> officer acted with malice in refusing to take `the annexures' into
> consideration.
> 4\. The order granting sanction under Section 197 Cr. P.C. in respect of
> P.P. Sharma was illegal.
> 5\. No case under Essential commodities Act was made out from the police
> report and other documents on the record.
The finding that no prima facie offence was made out against the respondents
was reached by the High Court on the following reasoning.
``We are always conscious of the legal position and the various pronouncements
of the courts in India that disputed questions of facts cannot be decided on
the basis of affidavits. But when some documents have been brought on the
record which are official records, which were in possession of the Biscomaun
and so in the possession of the informant himself and further when in the
replies neither the informant nor the I.O. nor any officer of the State
Government has challenged the correctness of those documentary material so
they are at present not disputed and when it appears from the argument and the
notes given by the learned counsel for the opposite party and Annexures  20 1,
2, 9, 10, 12, and 13 have been considered by the I.O. and they formed part of
the records of the investigation except annexure-I which was seized during the
investigation and formed part of the criminal proceedings. Annexures 3, 4, 5,
6, 7, 11, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21/1, 22, 22/1, 24, 25, 26 and 39 which have
been referred to earlier and dealt with, do not appear to have been considered
by the I.O. nor any reference about these have been made in the arguments by
the learned counsel for the opposite party which apparently have non-
considered and non-disputed and when those documents themselves demonstrate
that no prima facie offence is made out on the face value of those materials,
then the criminal prosecution should not be allowed to continue and so it
should be quashed.'' It is thus obvious that `the annexures' were neither part
of the police-reports nor were relied upon by the investigating officer. These
documents were produced by the respondents before the High Court along with
the writ petitions. By treating `the annexures' and affidavits as evidence and
by converting itself into a trial court the High Court pronounced the
respondents to be innocent and quashed the proceedings. The last we can say is
that this was not at all a case where High Court should have interfered in the
exercise of its inherent jurisdiction. This Court has repeatedly held that the
appreciation of evidence is the function of the criminal courts. The High
Court, under the circumstances, could not have assumed jurisdiction and put an
end to the process of investigation and trial provided under the law. Since
the High Court strongly relied upon ``the annexures'' in support of its
findings, we may briefly examine these documents.
Annexure 3 is a government notification dated october 10, 1986 wherein 5 types
of fertilizers have been specified which could be purchased or manufactured in
the State of Bihar. Annexure 4 is a certificate of registration dated March
31, 1986 in favour of the firm registering it as wholesale dealer in the State
of Bihar under the Fertilizers (Control) Order, 1957. Annexure 5 dated July
29, 1986 is the renewal of the said certificate. Annexure 6 dated November 16,
1985 is the certificate given to the firm by the Assistant Director
(Agriculture) quality control, Udaipur, Rajasthan to the effect that samples
of fertilisers taken from its factory were standard. Annexure 7 dated August,
1986 is the letter from Agriculture Department, Bihar to the Agriculture
Department, Rajasthan showing that the firm's registration was renewed upto
March 31, 1989 and it was granted  21 permission to import the specified
grades of fertiliser into the State of Bihar. Annexure 11 dated October 23,
1986 is the letter from G.D.Mishra to Director, Agriculture, Bihar asking his
opinion regarding suitability of the fertiliser to be purchased from the firm
at Rs.2,550 per M.T. Annexure 15 dated December 19, 1986 is the letter from
G.D. Mishra to the firm asking the firm to supply 408 M.T. of fertiliser.
Annexure 16 dated May 5, 1987 contains the proceedings of the marketing
committee of BISCO held on April 16, 1987 wherein memorandum of sale and
purchase of fertiliser for the year 1986-87 was approved. Annexure 17 Dated
February 18, 1985 is the letter from R.K. Singh as District Magistrate, Patna
to Agriculture production Commissioner, Patna which discloses that R.K. Singh
had got samples of Essential Commodities tested from Rajendra Agriculture
University. Annexure 18 dated March 23, 1987 is the memorandum prepared by
P.P. Sharma for the Board of Directors of BISCO suggesting that the fertiliser
purchased from the firm be sent to BISCO factories asraw-material. This was
suggested because the fertiliser was not being sold inspite of reduction of
price and huge stock and money was blocked. Annexure 19 is the record of the
proceedings of the meeting of Board of Directors of BISCO dated March 23, 1987
approving Managing Director's suggestion that fertiliser be sent to BISCO
factories as raw material to be converted as `Sada Bahar'. Annexure 20 dated
May 21, 1987 is the memorandum prepared by P.P. Sharma for Executive Committee
of BISCO regarding manufacture of `Hara Bahar' fertiliser by the BISCO
factories. Annexure 20/1 is copy of the proceedings of the Executive Committee
meeting held on May 21, 1987 regarding manufacture of `Hara Bahar'. Annexure
22 is the document showing that P.P. Sharma handed over charge of the office
of the Managing Director to Sanjay Srivastava on June 15, 1987. Annexure 22/1
is the document showing that P.P. Sharma assumed charge as Managing Director
of BISCO on May 26, 1986. Annexure 24 dated October 13, 1987 is the letter by
Mishra to the firm asking it to take back the sub- standard fertiliser from 8
depots mentioned therein. Annexure 25 is the letter dated May 15, 1987 from
project Manager of BISCO factory to Mishra, wherein the proposal for
consumption of fertiliser to manufacture `hara bahar' was detailed. It was
also stated that the process of manufacture would be viable. Annexure 26 is a
letter from the firm to the BISCO showing that the firm would help converting
fertiliser into `hara bahar' and would meet the transport, handing and
processing cost. Annexure 39 is the case diary prepared by the investigating
officer.
Taking the documents into consideration the High Court drew  22 the inference
that the firm was a registered one, it had a licence from the State of Bihar,
which gave monopoly to the firm to sell fertiliser throughout the State of
Bihar, it was not necessary to invite tenders. The firm gave valid offer to
sell which was accepted and the correspondence addressed to the office of
BISCO was initially dealt with at the lower level and after getting reports
from concerned authorities and after having full discussion at all levels the
purchase of fertiliser from the firm was approved by the highest authority
including the committee of the BISCO. The High Court further inferred that the
rates offered were less than the rates approved by the State of Bihar, that
the samples were got tested from the Rajendra Agriculture University, that the
decision to manufacture, `hara bahar' by reprocessing the fertiliser purchased
from the company, was approved by the committee and the Board of BISCO, and
the said re-processing had yielded profits to the BISCO. On the basis of these
inferences the High Court came to the conclusion that the criminal proceedings
against the respondents were not justified.
Mr. Kapil Sibal on the other hand has contended that the material collected
during the investigation prima facie show the involvement of the respondents
in the commission of the crime. The learned counsel has highlighted the
following material on the record to support his contention :
1\. The licence of the firm to manufacture fertiliser was cancelled and the
firm was not in a position to manufacture fertiliser at the relevant time when
the BISCO placed orders with the firm. This assertion is supported by
referring to para 48 of the case diary.
2\. Letter dated August 19, 1986 alleged to have been written by the firm to
BISCO was infact never received by the BISCO. The letter has been marked to
Special Officer Fertiliser. Mr. Sibal has taken us through para 15 of the case
diary where the Special Officer, Fertiliser has alleged to have stated that he
never dealt with the file and he did not know anything about the deal. The
contention is that the said letter was introduced into the file to show that
the deal was not abrupt but there was prolonged correspondence.
3\. Mr. Sibal took us through the note of Mr. G.D. Mishra dated November 14,
1986 which was approved by P.P. Sharma and Tapeshwar Singh on November 20,
1986\. The note was a recommendation for the purchase of fertiliser from the
firm. Mr. Sibal  23 stated that in paras 7 and 8 of the note it has been
wrongly mentioned that the brand of fertiliser being purchased from the firm
was recommended in the meeting of Field Officers held on October 25, 1986\.
According to him there is no record of any such meeting. Further Mr. Sibal
read para 8 of the note and stated that the demand in the State was of Suphla
15:15:15 type of fertiliser but G.D. Mishra in his note wrongly stated that
the said brand was not available and by saying so Mishra falsely made out a
case for the purchase of fertiliser brand 15:15:71/2.
4\. Mr. Sibal read para 9 of the note of G.D.
Mishra dated November 14, 1986 and stated that Mishra recommended payment to
the firm within 10 days of the receipt of the challan whereas the firm in its
letter has indicated payment within 30 days.
5\. The testing of the fertiliser was to be done either by the State or the
Central laboratory. Mr. Sibal took us through the case diary showing that G.D.
Mishar did not get the samples tested from the State laboratory on the ground
that the State laboratory was out of order. According to him the reason given
by G.D. Mishra was found to be false as the material in the case diary shows
that the laboratory was functioning.
6\. The respondents placed order for the supply of fertiliser to the firm on
the basis of the report from the Rajendra Agriculture University showing that
the fertiliser was of standard quality. Mr. Sibal has taken us through the
case diary and the police record showing that a statement under section 164
Cr. P.C. of Shri S.N. Jha Associate Professor, Rajendra Agriculture University
was recorded which allegedly states that no fertiliser came for testing to the
Rajendra Agriculture University and no such report was given. The report was
on the letter head of the Prof. S.N. Jha which he denied in his statement. Mr.
Sibal stated that there is a prima facie evidence to show that the test report
given by Rajendra Agriculture University was forged and fabricated. According
to the allegations on the record the actual forgery was done by accused
P.N.Sahu.
7\. The result of the samples of the fertiliser supplied by the firm sent to
the Central Laboratory, show that 8 out of 11 samples were found sub-standard.
24
8\. Mr. Sibal contends that 8 out of 11 samples having been found to be sub-
standard the whole of the fertiliser was to be returned to the firm but
instead it was decided to reprocess the fertiliser by treating it to be raw
material for the manufacture of `hara bahar'.
9\. Mr. Sibal contends that 23 lacs were paid to the firm on December 18, 1986
inspite of the objection raised by the accounts department on December 16,
1986. According to him further 30 lacs were paid on january 22, 1987 inspite
of the fact that by that date the sample-results from the central laboratory
showing the fertiliser to be sub-standard had been received.
10\. According to Mr. Sibal material has come during investigation to show
that the fertiliser purchased from the firm was being sold in retail market at
a much lesser price of Rs.2000 per MT. We do not wish to express any opinion
on the rival contentions of the parties based on their respective appreciation
of material on the record. We have quoted ``the annexures'', the inferences
drawn by the High Court and the factual assessment of Mr. Sibal, only to show
that the High Court fell into grave error in appreciating the documents
produced by the respondents along with the writ petitions and further delving
into disputed questions of facts in its jurisdiction under Article 226/227 of
the Constitution of India.
We have gone through the entire material on the record carefully and we are
unable to agree with the High Court that there was any ground to hold that the
prosecution against the respondents was initiated as a result of any malice on
the part of the informant or the investigating officer. There is no material
at all to show that prior to the lodging of the FIR there was any enmity
between the respondents and the informant/investigating officer. In fact there
is nothing on the record to show that the investigating officer G.N. Sharma
was even known to the respondents. Mr.R.K.Jain. learned counsel for one of the
respondents has invited our attention to various facts on the record and has
vehemently argued that the male fides on the part of informant and the
investigating officer are writ-large on the facts of the case.
The question of mala fide exercise of power assumes significance only when the
criminal prosecution is initiated on extraneous considerations and for an
unauthorised purpose. There is no material whatsoever is this case to show
that on the date when the FIR was lodged by R.K. Singh he was activated by
bias or had any reason to act  25 maliciously. The dominant purpose of
registering the case against the respondents was to have an investigation done
into the allegations contained in the FIR and in the event of there being
sufficient material in support of the allegations to present the charge sheet
before the court. There is no material to show that the dominant object of
registering the case was the character assassination of the respondents or to
harass and humiliate them. This Court in State of Bihar v J.A.C. Saldhana and
Ors., [1980] 2 SCR 16 has held that when the information is lodged at the
police station and an offence is registered, the mala fides of the informant
would be of secondary importance. It is the material collected during the
investigation which decides the fate of the accused person. This Court in
State of Haryana and Ors. v. Ch. Bhajan Lal and Ors., J.T. 1990 (4) S.C. 655
permitted the State Government to hold investigation afresh against Ch. Bhajan
Lal inspite of the fact the prosecution was lodged at the instance of Dharam
Pal who was enimical towards Bhajan Lal.
The informant, being in a peculiar position having lodged the accusation, is
bound to be looked-down upon by the accused-persons. The allegations of Mala
fide therefore against the informant based on the facts after the lodging of
the FIR are of no consequence and cannot be the basis for quashing the
proceedings. As regards the investigating officer, He has wide powers under
the criminal procedure code. He has to perform his duties with the sole object
of investgating the allegations and in the course of the investigation he has
to take into consideration the relevant material whether against or in favour
of the accused. Simply because the investigating officer, while acting bona
fide rules out certain documents as irrelevant, it is no ground to assume that
the acted mala fide. The police-report submitted by the investing officer has
to pass through the judicial scrutiny of a Magistrate at the stage of taking
cognisance. Although the accused person has no right to be heard at that stage
but in case the accused person has any grouse against the investigating
officer or with the method of investigation he can bring to the notice of the
Magistrate his grievances which can be looked into by the Magistrate. When the
police report under section 173 Cr. P.C. has to go through the judicial
scrutiny it is not open to the High Court to find fault with the same on the
ground that certain documents were not taken into consideration by the
investigating officer. We do not, therefore, agree with the High Court that
the FIR and the investigation is vitiated because of the mala fide on the part
of the informant and the investigating officer. We may, however, notice the
factual-matrix on the basis of which the High Court has reached the findings
of mala fide against the informant and the investigating  26 officer. The High
Court based the findings against the informant R.K.Singh on the following
materials :
1\. R.K. Singh, a comparatively junior officer had twice served under P.P.
Sharma as Asstt.
Magistrate, Gaye and as Sub-Divisional Officer at Jamui.
2\. Within 10 days of taking over as Managing Director of BISCO he sent
proposal for initiating surcharge proceedings against Shri P.P. Sharma which
was rejected by the then Registrar. R.K. Singh revived the proposal when later
on the took over he charge as Registrar.
3\. R.K.Singh deliberately violated Government instructions dated November 17,
1986 requiring prior approval of the Administrative department before
initiating criminal proceedings against a Government officer.
4\. R.K.Singh did not hand over the relevant files and papers of BISCO to the
investigating officer for more than a week in order to gain time to
tamper/destroy/forge the BISCO files. He continued to direct the investigating
officer throughout the investigation. Even affidavit was filed by the
investigating officer on his behalf.
5\. The documents in possession of R.K.Singh were such that any reasonable and
fair minded person would not have filed the FIR. He acted mala fide in
ignoring the documents and lodging the FIR.
6\. R.K. Singh got the sanction for prosecution of P.P. Sharma issued on the
last date of arguments before the Special Judge although earlier the
investigating officer had stated that sanction was not required.
7\. R.K.Singh filed affidavit denying the allegations of mala fide in the High
Court. He appeared through counsel and contested the proceedings throughout.
8\. In a letter to Chief Secretary, Bihar after the lodging of FIR R.K.Singh
referred to P.P. Sharma as ``gutter rat'' and ``common crockery thief''.
27
Mala fides on the part of investigating officer G.N. Sharma have been found by
the High Court on the following facts :
1\. The investigating officer deliberately allowed the informant to withhold
the relevant files of BISCO for more than a week after lodging the FIR.
2\. The investigating officer adopted a threatening posture toward P.P. Sharma
from the very beginning. Instead of interrogating him the investigating
officer demanded that P.P. Sharma should give his `safai bayan' (defence
statement).
3\. P.P. Sharma gave the investigating officer a copy of the writ petition
along with the annexures. The annexures were relevant documents from the
records of State Government and BISCO. The investigating officer refused to
take those documents into consideration on the ground that they were
irrelevant. the documents could have shown the innocence of the respondents.
4\. The investigating officer did not obtain the sanction of the State
Government before submitting the police-report. He mentioned in the case diary
that no sanction for prosecution under section 197 Cr. P.C. was required. The
sanction under section 15A of the Essential Commodities Act was also not
obtained.
We have given our thoughtful consideration to the facts enumerated above. We
are of the view that the High Court was not justified in reaching a conclusion
from the above facts the R.K. Singh and G.N. Sharma acted in a biased and Mala
fide manner in lodging the FIR and conducting the investigation. We are
intentionally not entering into any discussion in respect of the facts
mentioned above. Suffice it to say that no reasonable person on the basis of
the facts stated above can come to the conclusion as drawn by the High Court.
Dr. Shankar Ghosh and Mr. R.K. Jain, learned counsel appearing for the
respondents have vehemently supported the findings of the High Court to the
effect that the composite order granting sanction under section 197 Cr. P.C.
and section 15-A of the Essential Commodities Act was vitated because of non
application of mind on the part of the competent authority. The relevant part
of the sanction order is as under :
28
> ``Whereas after going through the papers and case diary, available in the
> Department of Personnel and Administrative Reforms Department File No.
> 1/A-3/89 endorsed to the, Law Department State Government is satisfied that
> under Section 409/420/467/468/471/120 of Indian Penal Code (Act 45 of 1860)
> and in violation of provision of Fertiliser Control Order 1985 under Section
> 7 of the Essential Commodities Act, prima facie case is made out to start
> prosecution against the accused Shri P.P.Sharma. I.A.S. Chairman, Sone
> Command Development, Agency, the Managing Director, Biscomaun, Patna in the
> Gandhi Maidan P.S. Case No. 970/88 ........'' ``And therefore, in the
> exercise of the powers conferred under Section 197 Cr. P.C. 1973 (Act Fert.
> II of 1974) and under section 15 of the Essential Commodities Act 1955
> prosecution has been sanctioned under section 409/420/467/468/471/120 and
> under Section 7 of the Essential Commodities Act''.
The sanction under section 197 Cr. P.C. is not an empty formality. It is
essential that the provisions therein are to be observed with complete
strictness. The object of obtaining sanction is that the authority concerned
should be able to consider for itself the material before the investigating
officer, before it comes to the conclusion that the prosecution in the
circumstances be sanctioned or forbidden. To comply with the provisions of
section 197 it must be proved that the sanction was given in respect of the
facts constituting the offence charged. It is desirable that the facts should
be referred to on the face of the sanction. Section 197 does not require the
sanction to be in any particular form. If the facts constituting the offence
charged are not shown on the face of the sanction, it is open to the
prosecution, if challenged, to prove before the court that those facts were
pa;ced before the sanctioning authority. It should be clear from the form of
the sanction that the sanctioning authority considered the relevant material
placed before it and after a consideration of all the circumstances of the
case it sanctioned the prosecution.
In the present case the investigation was complete on the date of sanction and
police reports had been filed before the Magistrate. The sanctioning authority
has specifically mentioned in the sanction order that the papers and the case
diary were taken into consideration before granting the sanction. Case diary
is a complete record of the police  29 investigation. It contains total
material in support or otherwise of the allegations. The sanctioning authority
having taken the case diary into consideration before the grant of sanction it
cannot be said that there was non application of mind on the part of the
sanctioning authority. It is nobody's case that the averment in the sanction
order to the effect that case diary was taken into consideration by the
competent authority, is incorrect. We, therefore, do not agree with the
finding of the High Court and set aside the same.
The findings of the High Court that no offence is made out against the
respondents under the Essential Commodities Act is also based on the
appreciation of `the annexures' and other disputed facts on the record and as
such is untenable for the reasons already indicated above.
We have reproduced the FIR lodged by R.K.Singh. it is indisputable that
assuming the facts contained in the FIR to be correct, prima facie offence is
made out against the respondents. We have also gone through the police reports
and the case diary which have been annexed along with the counter filed by the
respondents. We are satisfied that the High Court acted with patent illegality
in quashing the FIR and the prosecution against the respondents.
Finally, we are at a loss to understand as to why and on what reasoning the
High Court assumed extraordinary jurisdiction under Article 226/227 of the
Constitution of india at a stage when the Special Judge was seized of the
matter. he had heard the arguments on the question of cognizance and had
reserved the orders. The High Court did not even permit the Special Judge to
pronounce the orders.
The Directors of the firm who are also accused person in this case had
approached the Rajasthan High Court for the quashing of the FIR and
prosecution against them. The Rajasthan High Court dismissed the writ petition
with the following order :
> ``Sri Bhandari states that in this matter Challan has already been filed in
> court. the writ petition had, therefore, become infructuous. the writ
> petition is dismissed as having become infructuous. No order as to costs.''
> The above order was brought to the notice of the Patna High Court but the
> High Court refused to be persuaded to adopt the same course. We are of the
> considered view that at a stage when the  30 police report under section 173
> Cr. P.C. has been forwarded to the Magistrate after completion of the
> investigation and the material collected by the investigating officer is
> under the gaze of judicial scrutiny, the High Court would do well to
> discipline itself not to undertake quashing proceedings at that stage in
> exercise of its inherent jurisdiction. We could have set aside the High
> Court judgement on this ground alone but elaborate argument having been
> addressed by the learned counsel for the parties we thought it proper to
> deal with all the aspects of the case.
We, therefore, allow the appeals, set aside the judgement of the High Court
and dismiss the writ petitions field by the respondents before the High Court.
K.RAMASWAMY, J. Investigation of a crime is not of a routine duty, in
particular in intractable terrains of high places committed with dexterity and
sophistication. The unfounded threat of mala fides or bias often deter a
sincere and dedicated investigator to make in-depth investigation causing
catastrophic incursion on the effectivity to connect the offender with crime
which would serve the detractor's purpose. The attempt to avail writ remedy on
this score is on the ascending scale. The incalculable damage of interference
would be on the efficacy of rule of law and maintaining order in the society.
This anxiety made me to probe deep into the scope of interference under Art.
226 and express my views, though I am in full agreement with my learned
brother.
Since my learned brother stated the facts in extenso, they bear no repetition.
To focus on the questions stemmed from the findings of the High Court, I state
only few facts thus:
The Bihar State Co-operative Marketing Union (for short `the BISCOMAUN') is
the sole purchaser and distributor of fertilizers to the farmers in the State
through its depots situated at different parts of the State. When the
BISCOMAUN was at the brink of liquidation due to mismanagement, the State
Government superseded its Board of Directors on July 30, 1988 and appointed
R.K. Singh, I.A.S. as its Administrator and Managing director. During the
course of the discharge of his duties, he noted financial irregularities
committed by P.P. Sharma, the then Managing Director (the first respondent),
Ganesh Dutt Misra, the then ADvisor (the second respondent) and Tapeshwar
Singh, the then Chairman of BISCOMAUN and laid the information before the
Station House Officer, Gandhi Maidan Police  31 Station, Patna on September 1,
1988, shorn of the details the substratum of the accusations made against them
is that they conspired with the Rajasthan multi Fertilizers Private Limited
(for short `the Company') through its partners named therein to cause wrongful
gain to the Company and wrongful loss to the BISCOMAUN and the farmers to
purchase substandard fertilizers by name `Suraj' brand. In furtherance thereof
the Chairman received applications directly from the Company and without
routing through the official channel and without inviting tenders from open
market, the contract was finalised. The prevailing retail price of `Suraj'
brand of the Company itself was Rs.2,000 per M.T., but contracted to purchase
at Rs.2,509.60 per M.T. In terms of the contract the Company has to supply
granulated mixed fertilizers with full bags, which would be subjected to
chemical analysis in the laboratory either of the BISCOMAUN or the State of
Central Government. If the fertilizers were found to be of substandard, the
same were to be taken return of at the Company's expenses. On test if
fertilizers were found to be standard one, payment was to be made at a
specified rate within 30 days. Sharma placed orders with the Company to supply
2500 M.Ts. of fertilizers. Fertilizers' Inspectors were to have the
fertilizers tested in terms of the Fertilizers Control Order, Instead, the
agent of the Company had taken the Fertilizers for chemical examination in
Rajendra Agricultural University, Bihar. The report said to have been given by
Dr. S.N. Jha, Associate Professor of Soil Science of the University, was
fabricated by one S.N. Sahoo, Assistant in the department who is one of the
accused; payments were made in undue haste and further order to supply of 450
M.Ts. was made by G.D. Mishra. Only 459 M.Ts in total was sold out. When the
reports were being received from depots that the fertilizers supplied were
substandard and spurious and the bags do not contain the full weight, instead
of returning the stock, a resolution was obtained from the Managing Committee
to convert unsold old stock as HARBAHAR. When a specific request for
conversion of the stock supplied by the Company for conversion as HARBAHAR was
turned out by the Managing Committee, yet the resolution was fraudulently used
to destroy the evidence of supply of substandard and spurious fertilizers and
converted into Harbahar and fabricated the records in furtherance thereof.
These in substance are the accusations punishable under ss. 409, 420, 467, 468
and 471 read with s. 120B of the Indian Penal Code and s. 7 of the Essential
Commodities Act and the Fertilizer Control Order. G.N. Sharma, Addl.
Superintendent of Police, C.B.C.I.D. investigated into and collected the
evidence and field two chargesheets, one under the relevant provisions of the
Indian Penal Code and the other under s. 7 of the Essential Commodities Act
32 before the Special Judge, Economic Cases and the Chief Judicial Magistrate,
Patna in chargesheets Nos. 102 and 103 of 1988 respectively but the cognizance
of the offence is yet to be taken. My learned brother referred the findings of
the High Court to quash the FIR and the charge-sheets and the contentions of
the counsel on either side. Hence I am omitting them except to refer to some
of them wherever it is necessary.
Undoubtedly, the arms of the High Court are long enough, when exercises its
prerogative discretionary power under Art. 226 of the Constitution, to reach
injustice wherever it is found in the judicial or quasi-judicial process of
any court or Tribunal or authority within its jurisdiction. But it is hedged
with self imposed limitations. When and under what circumstances would a High
Court be justified to quash the charge-sheet even before cognizance of the
offence was taken by the criminal court is the crucial question, in particular
on mala fides of the complaint or investigating officer and on merits.
To appreciate the respective contentions, it is necessary to have before us
the operational spectrum from the relevant provisions in the Code of Criminal
procedure, 1973, for short``the Code''. Section 2(n) of the Code and s. 40 of
the indian Penal Code defined the term ``Offence means any act or omission
which includes a thing made punishable under the indian penal Code, or any
special or local laws with imprisonment for a term of six months or upwards
whether with or without fine. Therefore, an act or omission or a thing made
punishable by the Penal Code or under any special or local law is an offence
punishable under the relevant law. Sec. 154 in Chapter XII of the Code,
contemplates laying of information of cognizable offences either orally or in
writing to an offencer of a police station who is enjoined to reduce it into
writing, if made orally or under his direction and the substance thereof
entered in the book kept in the Police Station in the manner prescribed by the
State Government. The Officer incharge of the police station is prohibited to
investigate only into non-cognizable cases without an order of the Magistrate
concerned under s. 155(2). But if the facts disclose both cognizable and non-
cognizable offence, by operation of sub- s. 4 of s. 155 the case shall be
deemed to be congnizable case and the police officer shall be entitled to
investigate, without any order of the Magistrate, into non- cognizable offence
as well. Section 156 gives statutory power to a competent police officer or a
subordinate under his direction to investigate into cognizable offences. In
cases of cognizable offences receipt or recording of a first information
report is not a condition  33 precedent to set in motion of criminal
investigation. Section 157 provides the procedure for investigation. If the
police officer incharge of the Police Station, on receipt of information or
otherwise, has reason to suspect the commission of a cognizable offence and is
empowered to investigate into, he shall proceed in person or shall depute one
of his subordinate officers not below the rank of the prescribed officer to
the spot to investigate the facts and circumstances and if necessary to take
measures for the discovery and arrest of the offender. The provisos(a) and
(b) thereof give power, in cases of minor offences to depute some other
subordinate officer or if the investigating officer is of the opinion that
there is no sufficient ground for entering on investigation he shall not
investigate the case.
Investigation consists of divers steps-(1) to proceed to the spot; (2) to
ascertain the facts and circumstances of the case; (3) discovery and arrest of
the suspected offender; (4) collection of evidence relating to the commission
of the offence which may consist of (a) the examination of various persons
including the accused and the reduction of their statements into writing if
the officer thinks fit (Sec. 161 Cr. P.C.); (b) the search of places and
seizure of things necessary for the investigation to be proceeded with for the
trial (Sec. 165 Cr. P.C. etc.) and
(c) recovery of the material objects or such of the information from the
accused to discover, in consequence thereof, so much of information relating
to discovery of facts to be proved. (See 27 of the Indian Evidence Act).
On completion of the investigation, if it appears to the investigator that
there is sufficient evidence or reasonable ground to place the accused for
trial, the investigating officer shall forward to the court a report in that
regard alongwith the evidence and the accused, if he is in the custody to the
Magistrate. If on the other hand he opines that there is no sufficient
evidence or reasonable grounds connecting the accused with the commission of
the offence he may forward the report to the Magistrate accordingly. The
Magistrate is empowered to consider the report and on satisfying that the
accused prima facie committed the offence, take cognizance of the offence and
would issue process or warrant to the accused, if on bail, to appear on a date
fixed for trial or to commit him for trial to the court of session. It is not
incumbent upon the Magistrate to accept the report of the investigating
officer that there is no sufficient evidence or reasonable ground to connect
the accused with the commission of the crime; he may direct further
investigation or suo moto the investigator may himself submit supplemental
chargesheet under s. 173(8) if he subsequently becomes  34 aware of certain
facts or itself or through a subordinate Magistrate to make further enquiry or
to take cognizance of the offence upon consideration of the material so placed
before him and take further steps as aforesaid. Then only proceedings in a
criminal case stands commenced. Taking cognizance of the offence is coterminus
to the power of the police to investigate in the crime. Until then there is no
power to the Magistrate except on a private complaint in a cognizable/non
cognizable offence to direct the police to investigate into the offence. The
Magistrate is not empowered to interfere with the investigation by the police.
In King Emperor v. Khawaja Nazir Ahmad, 71 Indian Appeals, 203 the Judicial
Committee of the Privy Council held that ``the function of the judiciary and
the police are complementary, not overlapping'' and "the court's functions
begin when a charge is preferred before it, and not until then''. In Jamuna
Chaudhary v State of Bihar, [1974] 3 SCC 774 this Court held:
> ``The Duty of the investigating officer is not merely to bolster up a
> prosecution case with such evidence as may enable the court to record a
> conviction, but to bring out the real unvarnished truth''.
The only duty cast on the investigation is to maintain a diary of his
investigation, which is known as ``Case Diary'' under s. 172 of the Code. The
entries in the case diary are not evidence nor can they be used by the accused
or the court unless the case comes under s. 172(3) of the Code. The court is
entitled for perusal to enable it to find out if the investigation has been
conducted on the right lines so that appropriate directions, if need be given
and may also provide materials showing the necessity to summon witnesses not
mentioned in the list supplied by the prosecution or to bring on record other
relevant material which in the opinion of the court will help it to arrive at
a proper decision in terms of s. 172(3) of the Code. The primary duty of the
police, thus is to collect and sift the evidence of the commission of the
offence to find whether the accused committed the offence or has reason to
believe to have committed the offence and the evidence available is sufficient
to prove the offence and to submit his report to the competent Magistrate to
take cognizance of the offence.
In S.N. Sharma v. Bipen Kumar Tiwari & Ors., [1970]3 SCR 946 this Court held
that s. 159 primarily meant to give to the Magistrate the power to direct an
investigation in cases where the police decides not to investigate the case
under proviso to s. 157(1) and it is in those cases that, if he thinks fit, he
can choose to enquire into it by himself or  35 direct the subordinate
Magistrate to enquire into and submit a report. Section 159 intends to give a
limited power to the Magistrate to ensure that the police investigate into
cognizable offence and do not refuse to do so for certain limited cases of not
proceeding with the investigation of the offence. The Code gives to the police
unfettered power to investigate all cases where they suspect a cognizable
offense has been committed. In an appropriate case an aggrieved person can
always seek a remedy by invoking the power of the High Court under Art.226 of
the Constitution. If the court could be convinced that the power of
investigation has been exercised by a police officer mala fide, a man-damus
can be issued restraining the investigator to misuse his legal powers. The
same view was reiterated in State of Bihar & Anr.v. J.A.C.Saldanha & Ors.,
[1980] 1SCC 554 wherein this court held that unless extra-ordinary cases of
gross abuse of power by those incharge of the investigation is made out, the
Court should be quite loath to interfere at the stage of investigation. A
field of activity is reserved for police and the executive. This Court also
noted that it is a clear case of usurpation of jurisdiction by the High Court,
that vested in the Magistrate to take or not to take cognizance of the case on
the material placed before him. The High Court committed grave error by making
observations on seriously disputed question of facts taking its clue from
affidavit, which in such a situation hardly provides any reliable material.
This Court also noted that the interference or direction, virtually amount to
a mandamus to close the case before the investigation is complete. In State of
West Bengal v.Sampat Lal, [1985] 1SCC 317 at 336 para 26 this court held that
the court has residuary power to give appropriate directions to the police
when the requirements of law are not being complied with and investigation is
not being done properly or with due haste and promptitude.
In Municipal Corporation of Delhi v. Purshotam Dass Jhunjunwala & Ors., [1983]
1SCC 9 this Court found that clear averments have been made regarding the
active role played by the accused respondents and the extent of their
liability, it cannot be said that complaint was vague and that the High Court
was absolutely wrong in holding that the allegations in paragraph 5 therein
were vague. Accordingly the order of the High Court quashing the proceedings
under s. 482 was set aside.
In Abhinandan Jha & Ors.v.Dinesh Mishra, [1967] 3 SCR 668 this Court held,
preceding introduction of s. 173(8) of the Code that the Magistrate cannot
direct the police to submit a chargesheet and compel the police to form a
particular opinion on investigation and to submit a report according to such
opinion. If the police submits a  36 report that there is no case made out for
sending up the accused for trial, the court itself may take cognizance of the
offence on the basis of the report and the accompanying evidence if it is
found that there is sufficient evidence to proceed further or itself conduct
or direct the subordinate Magistrate to make further enquiry to take action
under s.190 etc. Thus it is seen that in an appropriate case where after
registering the crime if no expeditious investigation for unexplained reasons
was done the Magistrate or the High Court, on satisfying the grounds, may
direct completion of the investigation within a reasonable time.
In Nazir Ahmed's case (supra) the Judicial Committee held that the functions
of the judiciary and the police are complementary, not over-lapping and the
combination of individual liberty with due observance of law and order is only
to be obtained by leaving each to exercise its own functions.
The Code demarcates the field of investigation exclusively to the executive to
be vigilant over law and order. Police officer has statutory power and right
as a part to investigate the cognizable offence suspected to have been
committed by an accused and bring the offender to book. In respect thereof he
needs no authority from a Magistrate or a court except to the extent indicated
in sub-s. 3 of  s. 156, the superintendence sparingly over the investigation
and the matters incidental thereto, like enlarging the accused on bail or to
secure his presence for further investigation; to record judicial confession
under s.164 of the Code or to conduct identification parade of the accused or
the articles of crime or recording dying declarating under s.32 of Evidence
Act.
The investigating officer is the arm of the law and plays pivotal role in the
dispensation of criminal justice and maintenance of law and order. The police
investigation is, therefore, the foundation stone on which the whole edifice
of criminal trial rests-as error in its chain of investigation may result in
miscarriage of justice and the prosecution entails with acquittal. The duty of
the investigating officer, therefore, is to ascertain facts, to extract truth
from half-truth or garbled version, connecting the chain of events.
Investigation is a tardy and tedious process. Enough power, therefore, has
been given to the police officer in the area of investigatory process,
granting him or her great latitude to exercise his discretionary power to make
a successful investigation. It is by his action that law becomes an actual
positive forces. Often crimes are committed in secrecy with dexterity and at
high places. The  37 investigating officer may have to obtain information from
sources disclosed or undisclosed and there is no set procedure to conduct
investigation to connect every step in the chain of prosecution case by
collecting the evidence except to the extent expressly prohibited by the Code
or the Evidence Act or the Constitution. In view of the arduous task involved
in the investigation he has been given free liberty to collect the necessary
evidence in any manner he feels expedient, on the facts and in given
circumstances. His/her primary focus is on the solution of the crime by
intensive investigation. It is his duty to ferret out the truth. Laborious
hard-work and attention to the details, ability to sort out through
mountainous information, recognised behavourial patterns and above all, to co-
ordinate the efforts of different people associated with various elements of
the crime and the case, are essential. Diverse methods are, therefore,
involved in making a successful completion of the investigation.
From this perspective, the function of the judiciary in the course of
investigation by the police should be complementary and full freedom should be
accorded to the investigator to collect the evidence connecting the chain of
events leading to the discovery of the truth, viz., the proof of the
commission of the crime,. Often individual liberty of a witness or an accused
person are involved and inconvenience is inescapable and unavoidable. The
investigating officer would conduct indepth investigation to discover truth
while keeping in view the individual liberty with due observance of law. At
the same time he has a duty to enforce criminal law as an integral process. No
criminal justice system deserves respect if its wheels are turned by
ignorance. It is never his business to fabricate the evidence to connect the
suspect with the commission of the crime. Trustworthiness of the police is the
primary insurance. Reputation for investigative competence and individual
honesty of the investigator are necessary to enthuse public confidence. Total
support of the public also is necessary.
The focal point from the above background is whether the chargesheets are
vitiated by the alleged mala fides on the part of either of the complainant
R.K. Singh or the Investigating Officer G.N.Sharma. In Judicial Review of
Administrative Action by S.A. Desmith, 3rd Edn. at p.293 stated that "the
concept of bad faith in relation to the exercise of statutory powers comprise
dishonesty (or fraud) and malice. A power is exercised fraudulently if its
repository intends to achieve an object other than that for which he believes
the power to have been conferred. His intention may be to promote another
public interest or private interest. A power is exercised  38 maliciously if
its repository is motivated by personal animosity towards those who are
directly affected by its exercise. The administrative discretion means power
of being administratively discreet. It implies authority to do an act or to
decide a matter a discretion". The administrative authority is free to act in
its descretion if he deems necessary or if he or it is satisfied of the
immediacy of official action on his or its part. His responsibility lies only
to the superiors and the Government. The power to act in discretion is not
power to act adarbitrarium. It is not a despotic power, nor hedged with
arbitrariness, nor legal irresponsibility to exercise discretionary power in
excess of the statutory ground disregarding the prescribed conditions for
ulterior motive. If done it bring the authority concerned in conflict with
law. When the power was exercised mala fide it undoubtedly gets vitiated by
colourable exercise of power.
Mala fides means want of good faith, personal bias, grudge, oblique or
improper motive or ulterior purpose. The administrative action must be said to
be done in good faith, if it is in fact done honestly, whether it is done
negligently or not. An act done honestly is deemd to have been done in good
faith. An administrative authority must, therefore, act in a bona fide manner
and should never act for an improper motive or ulterior purposes or contrary
to the requirements of the statute, or the basis of the circumstances
contemplated by law, or improperly exercised discretion to achieve some
ulterior purpose. The determination of a plea of mala fide involves two
questions, namely (i) whether there is a personal bias or an oblique motive;
and (ii) whether the administrative action is contrary to the objects,
requirements and conditions of a valid exercise of administrative power.
The action taken must, therefore, be proved to have been made mala fide for
such considerations Mere assertion or a vague or bald statement is not
sufficient. It must be demonstrated either by admitted or proved facts and
circumstances obtainable in a given case. If it is established that the action
has been taken mala fide for any such considerations or by fraud on power or
colourable exercise of power, it cannot be allowed to stand.
Public adminstration cannot be carried on in a spirit of judicial detachment.
There is a very widerange of discretionary administrative acts not importing
an implied duty to act judicially though the act must be done in good faith to
which legal protection will be accorded. But the administrative act dehors
judicial flavour does not entail  39 compliance with the rule against interest
and likelihood of bias. It is implicit that a complainant when he lodges a
report to the Station House Officer accusing a person of commission of an
offence, often may be a person aggrieved, but rarely a probono publico.
Therefore, inherent animosity is licit and by itself is not tended to cloud
the veracity of the accusation suspected to have been committed, provided it
is based on factual foundation.
In Sirajuddin etc. v.State of Madras etc., [1970] 2 SCR 931 this Court held
that before a public servant, whatever be his status, is publicly charged with
acts of dishonety which amounts to serious misdemeanour or misconduct, there
must be suitable preliminary enquiry into the allegations by a responsible
officer. Lodging a First Information Report without enquiry against an officer
occupying a top position in a department would do incalculable harm not only
to the officer in particular but to the department he belongs to, in general,
Enquiry Officer must not act in any pre- conceived idea of guilt of the
persons whose conduct was being enquired into or pursue the enquiry in such a
manner as to lead to an inference that he was bent upon securing the
conviction of the said person by adopting the measures which are doubtful
validity or sanction. The means adopted no less than the end to be achieved
must be impeccable. The aim of Code is to secure a conviction if he can do by
use of utmost fairness on the part of the Officer investigating into the crime
before lodging a chargesheet. The reason is that no one should be put to
unnecessary harassment on a trial unless there are good and substantial
reasons for holding it. On the facts in that case the Court found that before
lodging the First Information Report the Investigating Officer suborn the
witnesses and obtained statements under  s. 162 under their signature and also
induced the witnesses of self-incriminating from prosecution. That conduct on
the part of the Investigating Officer was found to be unfair. In this case no
such allegation has ever been made against the Investigating Officer or the
Administrator.
In State of U.P. v. B.K. Joshi, [1964] 3 SCR 71 Mudholkare,J. in a separate,
but concurring judgment at page 86 and 87 held that even in the absence of any
prohibition in the Code, express or implied, a preliminary enquiry before
listing the offence was held to be desirable. In this view, though it was
desirable to have preliminary inquiry done, the omission in this regard by the
Administrator or to obtain administrative sanction before laying the Fist
Information Report would at best be an irregularity, but not a condition
precedent to set in motion the investigation into the offence alleged against
the respondents.
40
It is a settled law that the person against whom mala fides or bias was
imputed should be impleaded eo-nominee as a party respondent to the
proceedings and given an opportunity to meet those allegations. In his/her
absence no enquiry into those allegation would be made. Otherwise it itself is
violative of the principles of natural justice as it amounts to condemning a
person without an opportunity. Admittedly, both R.K. Singh and G.N. Sharma
were not impleaded. On this ground alone the High Court should have stopped
enquiry into the allegation of mala fides or bias alleged against them.
Nothing has been alleged, nor brought to our notice that preceding laying the
complaint before the police, R.K. Singh had any personal animosity against the
respondents. Nothing has also been brought to our notice, nor alleged either
in the High Court or in this court that after his filing the complaint he had
any say in the investigation conducted by the Investigating Officer or
exercised any pressure to investigate the case in any particular way to secure
the conviction of the respondents. The only allegation relied on by the High
Court is that R.K. Singh before laying the First Information Report did not
look into certain documents or did not deliver them up for a week to the
Investigating Officer. Had he considered things would be favourable to the
respondents and that no administrative sanction was obtained. That by itself
in our considered view would not lead to any irresistible conclusion that R.K.
Singh was actuated with any personal bias or mala fides against Sharma or
Dutt. At the most it may be said that he had not properly exercised his
discretion before laying the complaint. Equally no personal bias was alleged
to the Investigating Officer nor found in this regard by the High Court. The
ground on which reliance was placed and found acceptable to the High Court is
that when the documents said to be favourable to the respondents were brought
to his notice, he did not investigate into those facts on the ground of being
"irrelevant". Free from bias is an integral part of the principles of natural
justice. When bias was imputed to be existed, he ought not to take part in a
decision making process. Police Officer has a statutory duty to investigate
into the crime suspected to have been committed by the accused, by collecting
necessary evidence to connect the accused with the crime. Investigator
exercises no judicial or quasi-judicial duty except the statutory function of
a ministerial nature to collect the evidence. With his expertise, skill or
knowledge he has to find whether the accused committed the offence alleged
against. If the accused is aware that the Investigating Officer was personally
biased against him, it is his primary duty to bring it to the notice of the
higher authorities or the court at the earliest, of the circumstances or on
the grounds on which he believed that the Investigating Officer is actuated
with malice and  41 impartial investigation cannot be had. If he allows the
Investigating Officer to complete the investigation and the report submitted,
it amounts to his waiving the objection and he would not be allowed to impeach
the chargesheet on the ground of the alleged bias or mala fides. Moreover, the
Investigating Officer would be available to cross- examination at the trial of
the case and it would be open to the accused to elicit from the Investigating
Officer necessary circumstances of ground to throw doubt on the impartiality
of the Investigating Officer and must establish its effect on the prosecution
evidence adduced at the trial. It is for the court to consider how far it has
effected materially the result of the trial. The evidence collected during
investigation would be subject to proof as per Evidence Act and tested by
cross-examination. The reasoning of the Courts below that it an authority does
not act impartially or in good faith then a reasonable mind can definitely
infer the bias for reason best known to the authorities is too wide a
statement of law in the context of police/Investigating Officer.
In State of Bihar v. J.A. Saldana, AIR 1980 SC 326=[1980]1 SCC 554 it was held
that though mala fide or bias of a informant is of secondary importance if at
the trial impeccable evidence disclosing the offence has been brought on
record.
Equally the finding of the High Court that the mala fides of the Investigating
Officer was established by his subsequent conduct, of his participation in the
writ proceedings in our view, is obviously illegal. When the investigation was
subject matter of the challenge in the court, it would be obvious that the
investigator alone is to defend the case; he has to file the counter affidavit
and to appear in the proceedings on behalf of the state. No exception should
be taken to this course and under no circumstances it should be deduced to be
a mala fide act. Undoubtedly when it was brought to the notice of the
Investigating Officer of the existence of certain documents that throw doubt
on the complicity of the accused, it would be salutory that be would also
investigate into those aspects vis-a-vis the evidence in his possession to
find whether they would throw any doubt on the commission of the offence
alleged or otherwise. The omission to investigate into those aspects, by no
stretch of imagination would be inferred to be a mala fide act. It may be a
bona fide opinion. Undoubtedly, this court held that mala fides on the part of
the complainant would be a factor to be gone into. But no decided case that a
charge-sheet was held to be vitiated by mala fides due to omission to exercise
statutory power was brought to our notice. The allegation of mala fide and
bias more often  42 made easily, than proved. (Investigation is a delicate
pains taking and dextrous process. Ethical conduct is absolutely essential for
investigative professionalism. Ethics can be defined as the practical
normative study of the rightness and wrongness of human conduct.) The police
investigator faces the most frequent and immediate ethical pressures. Despite
many a stress associated with the enforcement and investigation functions, the
investigator must adapt a professional and uncom-promising attitude. Rather
than succumbing to unethical logic and engaging in unprofessional means to
justify a seemingly desirable end, the investigator should realise that no
conviction is worth sacrificing one's personal and professional integrity. The
allegation of mala fides cause deep incursion on the psychic attitude to
uncover the crime and on the effectivity of the investigation. The threat of
mala fide would deter an honest and efficient Investigating Officer to probe
an indepth investigation into the crime. The result would be that the crime
remains undetected and injury is irremediable to the society. Criminal becomes
emboldened and people lose faith in the efficacy of law and order. Therefore,
before countenancing such allegations of mala fides or bias it is salutory and
an onerous duty and responsibility of the court, not only to insist upon
making specific and definite allegations of personal animosity against the
Investigating Officer at the start of the investigation but also must insist
to establish and prove them from the facts and circumstances to the
satisfaction of the court.
It is undoubted that no-one should unnecessarily be harassed or face an ordeal
of criminal trial unless sufficient materials are collected during the
investigation disclosing the crime committed. (The Investigating Officer is
not to act on a pre-conceived idea of guilt of the accused. The Investigating
Officer is expected to gather the entire material, so that the truth or
falsihood of the accusation may be found by the court at the trial. The
Investigating Officer is expected to investigate justly and fairly, but the
evidence collected at the investigation is not be all and end all.) At the
stage of trial the opportunity is wide open to the accused to cross examine
the witnesses and if he deems necessary to adduce the defence evidence and to
test the veracity of the evidence collected during the investigation.
Malice in law could be inferred from doing of wrongful act intentionally
without any just cause or excuse or without there being reasonable relation to
the purpose of the exercise of `statutory power. (Malice in law is not
established from the omission to consider some documents said to be relevant
to the accused. Equally reporting the commission of a crime to the Station
House Officer, cannot be held to  43 be a colourable exercise of power with
bad faith or fraud on power.) It may be honest and bona fide exercise of
power. There are no grounds made out or shown to us that the first information
was not lodged in good faith. State of Haryana v.Bhajanlal, J.T. (1991) 4 SC
655 is an authority for the proposition that existence of deep seated
political vendetta is not a ground to quash the F.I.R. Therein despite the
attempt by the respondent to prove by affidavit evidence corroborated by
documents of the mala fides and even on facts as alleged no offence was
committed, this court declined to go into those allegations and relegated the
dispute for investigation. Unhesistingly I hold that the findings of the High
Court that F.I.R. gets vitiated by the mala fides of the Administrator and the
chargesheets are the results of the mala fides of the informant or
investigator, to say the least, is fantastic and obvious gross error of law.
The contention of Sri R.K. Jain, the learned Sr. Counsel is that when the
evidence collected during the investigation was not unimpeachable, the
prosecution and continunance of the proceedings are only a step in the process
of harassment to the respondents, offending their right to life and livelihood
enshrined under Art. 21 of the Constitution. The question is whether, the
impugned actions would offend Article 21 of the Constitution. Article 21
assures every person right to life and personal liberty. The word personal
liberty is of the widest amplitude covering variety of rights which goes to
constitute personal liberty of a citizen. Its deprivation shall be only as per
procedure prescribed in the Code and the Evidence Act conformable to the
mandate of the Supreme law, the Constitution. The investigator must be alive
to the mandate of Art. 21 and is not empowered to trample upon the personal
liberty arbitrarily, though the Code gives unfetterd power to investigate into
the suspected cognizable offence imputed to an accused. The gravity of the
evil to the community resulting from antisocial activities or commission of
the grave crime by itself would not give carte blanche right or power to the
investigator to invade the personal liberty of a citizen except in accordance
with the procedure established by law and the constitution. The observance of
the procedure, therefore, is an assurance against want assaults on personal
liberty.
An investigating officer who is not sensitive to the constitutional mandates,
may be prone to trample upon the personal liberty of a person when he is
actuated by mala fides. But as stated the accused, at the earliest should
bring to the notice of the court of the personal bias and his reasonable
belief that an objective investigation into the crime  44 would not be had at
the hands of the investigator by pleading and proving as of fact with
necessary material facts. If he stands by till the chargesheet was filed, it
must be assumed that he has waived his objection. He cannot turn down after
seeing the adverse report to plead the alleged mala fides. (Equally laying the
information before the Station House Officer of the commission of cognizable
crime merely sets the machinery if the investigation in motion to act in
accordance with the procedure established by law.) The finding of the High
Court, therefore, that the F.I.R. charge-sheet violate the constitutional
mandate under Art. 21 is without substance.
....... The next question is whether the charge-sheets became illegal for
obtaining sanction after filing them in the court and under what
circumstances. Section 197(1) reads thus:
> "Prosecution of Judges and public servants-(1) When any person who is or was
> a Judge or Magistrate or a public servant not removable from his office save
> by or with the sanction of the Government is accused of any offence alleged
> to have been committed by him while acting or purporting to act in the
> discharge of his official duty, no Court shall take cognizance of such
> offence except with the previous sanction-
(a) in the case of of a person who is employed or, as the case may be, was at
the time of commission of the alleged offence employed, in connection with the
affairs of the Union, of the Central Government;
(b) in the case of a person who is employed or, as the case may be, was at the
time of commission of the alleged offence employed, in connection with the
affairs of a State, of the State Government. Other sub-sections are not
relevant. Hence omitted.
Similarlys. 15-A of the Essential Commodities Act reads thus:
"Prosecution of public servants.-Where any person who is a public servant is
accused of any offence alleged to have been committed by him while acting or
purporting to act in the discharge of his duty in pursuance of an order made
under s.3, no court shall take cognizance of such offence  45 except with the
previous sanction:
(a) of the Central Government, in the case of a person who is employed or, as
the case may be, was at the time of commission of the alleged offence employed
in connection with the affairs of the Union;
(b) of the State Government in the matter of a person who is employed or, as
the case may be, was at the time of commission of the alleged offence employed
in connection with the affairs of the State".
The emphasis laid in both the sections are that no court shall take cogizance
of offence against a public servant alleged to have committed while acting or
purported to act in the discharge of official duty, except with previous
sanction of the appropriate Government. The object behind prior sanction is to
prevent malacious, vexatious and unnecessary harassment to a public servant by
laying false or frivolous accusation or prosecution. In other words ss.197(1),
15-A and related sections intended to immune a public servant who discharges
his duties honestly and diligently from the threat of prosecution. Honest
discharges of public duty would impinge adversely of the interests, acts or
omissions of private persons who would be prone to harass in criminal
proceedings and prosecution to demoralise a public servant.
The nexus between the discharge of the public duty and the offending act or
omission must be inseparable. The obvious reason is to balance the public good
and efficiency of the performance of the public duty by a public servant and
the legitimate and bona fide grievance of an aggrieved person. Sometimes while
discharging or purported to discharge the public duty, the officer may
honestly exceed his limit or pass an order or take a decision which may later
be found to be illegal, etc. Therefore, the prior sanction by the appropriate
Government is an assurance to a public servant to discharge his official
functions diligently, efficiently and honestly without fear or favour, without
having haunt of later harassment and victimization, so that he would serve his
best in the interest of the public.
The offending act must be integrally connected with the discharge of duty and
should not be fanciful or pretended. If the act complained of is directly, and
inextricably connected with the official duty, though it was done negligently,
or in dereliction of duty or in excess thereof, Section 197 and similar
provisions operate as a canopy  46 against malicious, vexatious or frivolous
accusation or prosecution at the hands of the aggrieved persons. It is well
setted law that public servant can only be said to act or purported to act in
the discharge of his official duty if his act or omission is such as to lie
within the scope of his official duty. It is not every offence committed by a
public servant that requires sanction for prosecution, nor even every act done
by him while he actually engaged or purported to have engaged under colour of
his official duty that receives protection from prosecution. If questioned he
must claim that he had done by virtue of office and it is inextricably
connected with the duty. Sanction then would be necessary, irrespective of
whether it was in fact a proper discharge of his duty or not is a matter of
defence on merits, which would be considered at the trial and could not arise
at the time of grant of sanction which must precede taking cognizance of the
prosecution. Therefore, there must be reasonable connection between the acts
complained and discharge or purported discharge of the official duty, the act
or omission must bear such a relation to the duty that the accused could lay
reasonable, nexus between the offending act or omission and the duty but not a
pretended or fanciful claim that he did it in the course of the performance of
his duty. It is no part of the duty of a public servant to enter into
conspiracy; to fabricate the records; falsification of the accounts; fraud or
misappropriation or demand and acceptance of illegal gratification though the
exercise of power given him an occasion to commit the offences. In K.Satwant
Singh v.State of Punjab, [1960] 2 SCR 89 this court held that the act of
cheating or abatement thereof has no reasonable connection with the discharge
of the official duty or that he did so in the course of performance of his
duty. The same was reiterated in Harihar Prasad v.State of Bihar, [1972]3
SCC89.
In S.B.Saha v.Kochar,[1980] 1 SCR 111 this Court held that offence under
ss.409 and 120B cannot be held to have been committed while acting or
purporting to act in the discharge of the official duty and have no reasonable
connection and bear no direct connection or inseparable link with the duty as
a public servant. The official status must have furnished the accused an
opportunity or occasion to commit the alleged criminal acts.
It is equally well settled that "before granting sanction the authority or the
appropriate Govt. must have before it the necessary report and the material
facts which prima facie establish the commission of offence charged for and
that the appropriate Government would apply their mind to those facts". The
order of sanction only is an administrative act and not a quasi-judicial one
nor is a lis involved.
47
Therefore, the order of sanction need not contain detailed reasons in support
thereof as was contended by Sri Jain. But the basic facts that constitute the
offence must be apparent on the impugned order and the record must bear out
the reasons in that regard. The question of giving an opportunity to the
public servant at that stage as was contended for the respondents does not
arise. Proper application of mind to the existence of a prima facie evidence
of the commission of the offence is only a pre- condition to grant or refuse
to grant sanction. When the Govt. Accorded sanction, s.114(e) of the Evidence
Act raises presumption that the official acts have been regularly performed.
The burden is heavier on the accused to establish the contra to rebut that
statutory presumption. Once that is done then it is the duty of the
prosecution to produce necessary record to establish that after application of
mind and consideration thereof to the subject the grant or refusing to grant
sanction was made by the appropriate authority. At any time before the Court
takes cognizance of the offence the order of sanction could be made. It is
settled law that issuance of the process to the accused to appear before the
court is sine quo non of taking cognizance of the offence. The emphasis of
s.197(1) or other similar provisions that "no court shall take cognizance of
such offence except with the previous sanction" posits that before taking
cognizance of the offence alleged, there must be before the court the prior
sanction given by the competent authority. Therefore, at any time before
taking cognizance of the offence it is open to the competent authority to
grant sanction and the prosecution is entitled to produce the order of
sanction. Filing of charge-sheet before the court without sanction per se is
not illegal, nor a condition precedent. A perusal of the sanction order
clearly indicates that the Govt. appears to have applied its mind to the facts
placed before it and considered them and then granted sanction. No evidence
has been placed before us to come to a different conclusion. Accordingly we
hold that the High Court committed manifest error of law to quash the charge-
sheet on those grounds.
The another crucial question is whether the High Court, in exercise of its
extra-ordinary jurisdiction under Art.226 of the Constitution, would interfere
and quash the chargesheet. The High Court found that the documents relied on
by the respondents/accused were not denied by the State by filing the Counter
Affidavit. Therefore, they must be deemed to have been admitted. On that
premise the High Court found that there is no prima facie case was made out on
merits and chances of ultimate conviction is "bleak". The court is not passive
spectator in the drama of illegalities and injustice. The inherent power of
the court under Art. 226 of the Constitution of India is permitted to  48 be
resorted to. When the documents relied on by the respondents "demonstrate that
no prima facie offence is made out on the face value of those materials, then
the criminal prosecution should not be allowed to continue and so it should be
quashed", and "in such a situation and circumstances the petitioners who had
got a right under the Constitution for the protection of their liberty have
rightly approached this Court and this court in these circumstances has no
option but to grant the relief by quashing the F.I.R. and both the charge-
sheets". Accordingly it quashed them. If this decision is upheld, in my
considered view startling and disastrous consequence would ensue. Quashing the
chargesheet even before cognizance is taken by a criminal court amounts to
"killing a still born child'. Till the criminal court takes cognizance of the
offence there is no criminal proceedings pending. I am not allowing the
appeals on the ground that alternative remedies provided by the Code as a bar.
It may be relevant in an appropriate case. My view is that entertaining the
writ petitions against charge-sheet and considering the matter on merit in the
guise of prima facie evidence to stand on accused for trial amounts to pre-
trial of a criminal trial under Articles 226 or 227 even before the competent
Magistrate or the Sessions Court takes cognizance of the offence. Once the
proceedings are entertained the further proceedings get stayed. Expeditious
trial of a criminal case is the cardinal rule. Delay feeds injustice to social
order and entertaining writ petitions would encourage to delay the trial by
diverse tricks. It is not to suggest that under no circumstances a writ
petition should be entertained. As was rightly done by Rajasthan High Court in
this case at the instance of the directors of the company, wisdom lies to keep
the hands back and relegate the accused to pursue the remedy under the Code.
In several cases this Court quashed the criminal proceeding on the sole ground
of delay. In a case, F.I.R. filed in 1954 for violation of the provisions of
the Customs Act and Foreign Exchange Regulation Act was challenged in the
Allahabad High Court. It was deliberately kept pending in the High Court and
in this Court till 1990. The accusation was violation of law by named persons
in the name of non-existing firm. The F.I.R. was quashed in the year 1990 by
another Bench to which I was a Member solely on the ground of delay. He
achieved his object of avoiding punishment. This would show that an accused
with a view to delay the trial, resorts to writ proceedings, raises several
contentions including one on merit as vehemently persisted by Sri Jain to
consider this case on merits and have the proceedings kept pending. The result
would be that the people would loss faith in the efficacy of rule of law.
Documents relied on by the respondents are subject to proof at the trail and
relevancy. If proved to be true and relevant that they may  49 serve as a
defence for the respondents at the trial. The State quite legitimately and in
my view rightly did not choose to file the Counter affidavit denying or
contradicting the version of the respondents, in those documents. The
commission of offence cannot be decided on affidavit evidence. The High Court
has taken short course "in annihilating the still born prosecution" by going
into the merits on the plea of proof of prima facie case and adverted to those
facts and gave findings on merits. Grossest error of law has been committed by
the High Court in making pre-trial of a criminal case in exercising its
extraordinary jurisdiction under Art.226. After the charge- sheet was filed,
the F.I.R. no longer remains sheet achor. The charge-sheet and the evidence
placed in support thereof from the base to take or refuse to take cognizance
by the competent Court. It is not the case that no offence has been made out
in the charge-sheets and the First Information Report. It is, therefore, not
necessary to consider all the decisions dealing with the scope of the power of
the High Court either under  s. 482 Cr. P.C. or Art. 226 of the Constitution
to quash the First Information Report.
The decision of this court, strongly relied on, namely State of West Bengal
v.Swaran Kumar, [1932] 3 SCR 121 is of no assistance to the respondents. In
that case it was found that the First Information Report did not disclose the
facts constituting the offence.
Madhaorao J. Scindhia v.Sambhaji Rao, [1988] 1SCC 692 also does not help the
respondents. In that case the allegations constitute civil wrong as the
trustees created tenancy of Trust property to favour the third party. A
private complaint was laid for the offence under s. 467 read with  s. 34 and
s. 120B I.P.C. which the High Court refused to quashed under s. 482. This
court allowed the appeal and quashed the proceedings on the ground that even
on its own contentions in the complaint, it would be a case of breach of trust
or a civil wrong but no ingredients of criminal offences were made out. On
those facts and also due to the relation of the settler, the mother, the
appellant and his wife, as the son and daughter-in-law, this Court interfered
and allowed the appeal. This Court found thus:
> " The court cannot be utilized for any oblique purpose and where in the
> opinion of court chances of an ultimate conviction is bleak and, therefore,
> no useful purpose is likely to be served by allowing a criminal prosecution
> to continue, the court may while taking into consideration the special facts
> of a case also quash the proceedings even  50 though it may be at a
> preliminary stage."
Therefore, the ratio therein is of no assistance to the facts in this case. It
cannot be considered that this court laid down as a preposition of law that in
every case the court would examine at the preliminary stage whether there
would be ultimate chances of conviction on the basis of allegation and
exercise of the power under s.482 or Art. 226 to quash the proceedings or the
charge-sheet. In Sirajiddin's case the Madras High Court and this Court,
though noticed serious infirmity committed in the course of investigation by
the investigating officer did not quash the charge-sheet.
I am contrained to hold that the learned Judges have committed gravest errors
of law in quashing the F.I.R. and Charge-sheets. Since the proceedings are yet
to start I decline to go into the merits of the respective contentions, though
vehemently argued by Shri R.K. Jain, on merits, and Kapil Sibal in rebuttal
since expressing any view either way would gravely prejudice the case of the
accused or the prosecution. The appeals are allowed with no order as to costs.
    R.S.S.					Appeals allowed.
    						       51
> no useful purpose is likely to be served by allowing a criminal prosecution
> to continue, the court may while taking into consideration the special facts
> of a case also quash the proceedings even  50 though it may be at a
> preliminary stage."
Therefore, the ratio therein is of no assistance to the facts in this case. It
cannot be considered that this court laid down as a preposition of law that in
every case the court would examine at the preliminary stage whether there
would be ultimate chances of conviction on the basis of allegation and
exercise of the power under s.482 or Art. 226 to quash the proceedings or the
charge-sheet. In Sirajiddin's case the Madras High Court and this Court,
though noticed serious infirmity committed in the course of investigation by
the investigating officer did not quash the charge-sheet.
I am contrained to hold that the learned Judges have committed gravest errors
of law in quashing the F.I.R. and Charge-sheets. Since the proceedings are yet
to start I decline to go into the merits of the respective contentions, though
vehemently argued by Shri R.K. Jain, on merits, and Kapil Sibal in rebuttal
     1991 SCALE  (1)539
    ACT:
          Constitution  of India, 1950: Article 226-High  Court-
    When  and  under what circumstances would  be  justified  to
    quash  charge  sheet before cognizance of offence  taken  by
    criminal court.
          Code  of	Criminal Procedure:  Sections,	173,194,197-
    Investigation-Powers  of Police-Intereference by Court	when
    arises.
    HEADNOTE:
          The   Bihar   State   Co-operative   Marketing   Union
    (BISCOMAUN)  is	 the  sole  purchaser  and  distributor	  of
    fertilizers  in	 the State.  When the BISCOMAUN was  at	 the
    brink  of  liquidation	due  to	 mismanagement,	 the   State
    Government  superseded its Board of Directors and  appointed
    R.K.  Singh,  I.A.S.,  as  its	Administrator  and  Managing
    Director on July,30,1988.
          In  the  course of the discharge of his  duties,	R.K.
    Singh noted that financial irregularities had been committed
    by P.P. Sharma, the first respondent, Genesh Dutt Misra, the
> no useful purpose is likely to be served by allowing a criminal prosecution
> to continue, the court may while taking into consideration the special facts
> of a case also quash the proceedings even  50 though it may be at a
> preliminary stage."
Therefore, the ratio therein is of no assistance to the facts in this case. It
cannot be considered that this court laid down as a preposition of law that in
every case the court would examine at the preliminary stage whether there
would be ultimate chances of conviction on the basis of allegation and
exercise of the power under s.482 or Art. 226 to quash the proceedings or the
charge-sheet. In Sirajiddin's case the Madras High Court and this Court,
though noticed serious infirmity committed in the course of investigation by
the investigating officer did not quash the charge-sheet.
I am contrained to hold that the learned Judges have committed gravest errors
of law in quashing the F.I.R. and Charge-sheets. Since the proceedings are yet
to start I decline to go into the merits of the respective contentions, though
vehemently argued by Shri R.K. Jain, on merits, and Kapil Sibal in rebuttal
     1991 SCALE  (1)539
    ACT:
          Constitution  of India, 1950: Article 226-High  Court-
    When  and  under what circumstances would  be  justified  to
    quash  charge  sheet before cognizance of offence  taken  by
    criminal court.
          Code  of	Criminal Procedure:  Sections,	173,194,197-
    Investigation-Powers  of Police-Intereference by Court	when
    arises.
    HEADNOTE:
          The   Bihar   State   Co-operative   Marketing   Union
    (BISCOMAUN)  is	 the  sole  purchaser  and  distributor	  of
    fertilizers  in	 the State.  When the BISCOMAUN was  at	 the
    brink  of  liquidation	due  to	 mismanagement,	 the   State
    Government  superseded its Board of Directors and  appointed
    R.K.  Singh,  I.A.S.,  as  its	Administrator  and  Managing
    Director on July,30,1988.
          In  the  course of the discharge of his  duties,	R.K.
    Singh noted that financial irregularities had been committed
    by P.P. Sharma, the first respondent, Genesh Dutt Misra, the
> no useful purpose is likely to be served by allowing a criminal prosecution
> to continue, the court may while taking into consideration the special facts
> of a case also quash the proceedings even  50 though it may be at a
> preliminary stage."
Therefore, the ratio therein is of no assistance to the facts in this case. It
cannot be considered that this court laid down as a preposition of law that in
every case the court would examine at the preliminary stage whether there
would be ultimate chances of conviction on the basis of allegation and
exercise of the power under s.482 or Art. 226 to quash the proceedings or the
charge-sheet. In Sirajiddin's case the Madras High Court and this Court,
though noticed serious infirmity committed in the course of investigation by
the investigating officer did not quash the charge-sheet.
I am contrained to hold that the learned Judges have committed gravest errors
of law in quashing the F.I.R. and Charge-sheets. Since the proceedings are yet
to start I decline to go into the merits of the respective contentions, though
vehemently argued by Shri R.K. Jain, on merits, and Kapil Sibal in rebuttal
     1991 SCALE  (1)539
    ACT:
          Constitution  of India, 1950: Article 226-High  Court-
    When  and  under what circumstances would  be  justified  to
    quash  charge  sheet before cognizance of offence  taken  by
    criminal court.
          Code  of	Criminal Procedure:  Sections,	173,194,197-
    Investigation-Powers  of Police-Intereference by Court	when
    arises.
    HEADNOTE:
          The   Bihar   State   Co-operative   Marketing   Union
    (BISCOMAUN)  is	 the  sole  purchaser  and  distributor	  of
    fertilizers  in	 the State.  When the BISCOMAUN was  at	 the
    brink  of  liquidation	due  to	 mismanagement,	 the   State
    Government  superseded its Board of Directors and  appointed
    R.K.  Singh,  I.A.S.,  as  its	Administrator  and  Managing
    Director on July,30,1988.
          In  the  course of the discharge of his  duties,	R.K.
    Singh noted that financial irregularities had been committed
    by P.P. Sharma, the first respondent, Genesh Dutt Misra, the
    second	respondent, and Tapeshwar Singh, in the purchase  of
    fertilizers for distribution in the State.   At the relevant
    time,  P.P. Sharma was the managing Director  of  BISCOMAUN,
    Genesh	Dutt  Misra  its advisor, and  Tapeshwar  Singh	 its
    Chairman.
          R.K.   Singh  laid  the  information   regarding	 the
    financial  irregularities before the Station House  Officer,
    Gandhi	Maidan Police Station, Patna on	 September  1, 1988.
    The substratum of the accusations made against them was that
    they  had  conspired with the  Rajasthan  Multi	 Fertilizers
    Private	 Limited,  through its partners, to  cause  wrongful
> no useful purpose is likely to be served by allowing a criminal prosecution
> to continue, the court may while taking into consideration the special facts
> of a case also quash the proceedings even  50 though it may be at a
> preliminary stage."
Therefore, the ratio therein is of no assistance to the facts in this case. It
cannot be considered that this court laid down as a preposition of law that in
every case the court would examine at the preliminary stage whether there
would be ultimate chances of conviction on the basis of allegation and
exercise of the power under s.482 or Art. 226 to quash the proceedings or the
charge-sheet. In Sirajiddin's case the Madras High Court and this Court,
though noticed serious infirmity committed in the course of investigation by
the investigating officer did not quash the charge-sheet.
I am contrained to hold that the learned Judges have committed gravest errors
of law in quashing the F.I.R. and Charge-sheets. Since the proceedings are yet
to start I decline to go into the merits of the respective contentions, though
vehemently argued by Shri R.K. Jain, on merits, and Kapil Sibal in rebuttal
     1991 SCALE  (1)539
    ACT:
          Constitution  of India, 1950: Article 226-High  Court-
    When  and  under what circumstances would  be  justified  to
    quash  charge  sheet before cognizance of offence  taken  by
    criminal court.
          Code  of	Criminal Procedure:  Sections,	173,194,197-
    Investigation-Powers  of Police-Intereference by Court	when
    arises.
    HEADNOTE:
          The   Bihar   State   Co-operative   Marketing   Union
    (BISCOMAUN)  is	 the  sole  purchaser  and  distributor	  of
    fertilizers  in	 the State.  When the BISCOMAUN was  at	 the
    brink  of  liquidation	due  to	 mismanagement,	 the   State
    Government  superseded its Board of Directors and  appointed
    R.K.  Singh,  I.A.S.,  as  its	Administrator  and  Managing
    Director on July,30,1988.
          In  the  course of the discharge of his  duties,	R.K.
    Singh noted that financial irregularities had been committed
    by P.P. Sharma, the first respondent, Genesh Dutt Misra, the
    second	respondent, and Tapeshwar Singh, in the purchase  of
    fertilizers for distribution in the State.   At the relevant
    time,  P.P. Sharma was the managing Director  of  BISCOMAUN,
    Genesh	Dutt  Misra  its advisor, and  Tapeshwar  Singh	 its
    Chairman.
          R.K.   Singh  laid  the  information   regarding	 the
    financial  irregularities before the Station House  Officer,
    Gandhi	Maidan Police Station, Patna on	 September  1, 1988.
    The substratum of the accusations made against them was that
    they  had  conspired with the  Rajasthan  Multi	 Fertilizers
    Private	 Limited,  through its partners, to  cause  wrongful
> no useful purpose is likely to be served by allowing a criminal prosecution
> to continue, the court may while taking into consideration the special facts
> of a case also quash the proceedings even  50 though it may be at a
> preliminary stage."
Therefore, the ratio therein is of no assistance to the facts in this case. It
cannot be considered that this court laid down as a preposition of law that in
every case the court would examine at the preliminary stage whether there
would be ultimate chances of conviction on the basis of allegation and
exercise of the power under s.482 or Art. 226 to quash the proceedings or the
charge-sheet. In Sirajiddin's case the Madras High Court and this Court,
though noticed serious infirmity committed in the course of investigation by
the investigating officer did not quash the charge-sheet.
I am contrained to hold that the learned Judges have committed gravest errors
of law in quashing the F.I.R. and Charge-sheets. Since the proceedings are yet
to start I decline to go into the merits of the respective contentions, though
vehemently argued by Shri R.K. Jain, on merits, and Kapil Sibal in rebuttal
