Madras High Court
Technova Tapes (India) Pvt. Ltd vs Technova Imaging Systems (P) ...
                                                               1
                                 IN THE HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE AT MADRAS
                                                RESERVED ON : 08.01.2019
                                                DELIVERED ON : 13.03.2019
                                                          CORAM:
                                THE HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE M.SATHYANARAYANAN
                                                    AND
                                   THE HON'BLE MR.JUSTICE N.SESHASAYEE
                                                    O.S.A.No.59 of 2017
                                                  and CMP.No.4967 of 2017
                          Technova Tapes (India) Pvt. Ltd.,
                          Previously known as Reflex Auto Products Pvt. Ltd.,
                          No.118, Bommasandar Industrial Area,
                          Anekal Taluka,
                          Bangalore-562 158.                                ..      Appellant
                                                              Vs.
                          TechNova Imaging Systems (P) Limited,
                          182, TTK Road,
to adopt the trade marks, which are registered in the name of the plaintiff,
which have a worldwide market. As pointed out above, the plaintiff has failed
to establish that it had a worldwide market and the oral evidence let in by
them did not help/advance their case and the plaintiff did not take any action
for nearly 9 years i.e., from the year 1995 and as such, he has acquiesced the
conduct of the defendant.
56\. It is once again to be pointed out at this juncture that neither the oral
evidence nor the documentary evidence help/advance the case of the plaintiff
and the plaintiff has failed to probablise their case. The plaintiff, except
the self serving statement, did not adduce any quality or sufficient evidence
to sustain their claim. Therefore, the appellant/defendant is entitled to
succeed in this appeal and Question No.4 is answered accordingly.
57\. In the result, this Original Side Appeal is allowed and the judgment and
decree dated 15.12.2016 made in C.S.No.860 of 2004 is set aside and
consequently, the Suit in C.S.No.860 of 2004 is dismissed.
http://www.judis.nic.in However, there shall be no order as to costs.
                          182, TTK Road,
                          Alwarpet, Chennai-600 018,
                          represented by its Commercial Manager,
                          Mr.D.Christy.                                     ..       Respondents
                          Prayer: Original Side Appeal filed under Order XXXVI Rule 1 of Original
                          Side Rules read with Clause 15 of the Letters Patent against the order dated
                          15.12.2016 made in C.S.No.860 of 2004.
                                For Appellant            : Mr.P.S.Raman, Senior Counsel
                                                              assisted by M/s.Gladys Daniel
                                For Respondents          : Mr.S.P.Chockalingam
    http://www.judis.nic.in                                    for Dr.Mohan Dewan
                                                                    2
                                                           JUDGMENT
M.SATHYANARAYANAN, J.
The defendant in C.S.No.860 of 2004 is the appellant. The respondent/plaintiff
filed the said Suit for the following relief:
> (a) A Permanent Injunction restraining the Defendant, its servants, agents,
> distributors, stockists, dealers and anybody associated with the defendant
> from marketing its products under the name “TECHNOVA” (or any alternative
> spelling or variant thereof).
> (b) A Permanent Injunction restraining the Defendant, its servants, agents,
> distributors, stockists, dealers and anybody associated with the Defendant
> from using “Technova” (or any alternate spelling or variant thereof) as its
> corporate name.
> (c) To surrender to the Plaintiff for destruction of finished goods,
> cartons, packing materials, visual aids, catalogues, pricelists, literatures
> and advertisement bearing or containing the mark “Technova” manufactured and
> printed by the Defendant.
(d) Costs of the Suit; and
(e) Pass such further or other relief's as this Hon'ble Court may deem fit and
proper in the circumstances of the case and render justice.” The Suit, after
contest, came to be decreed, vide judgment and decree dated 15.12.2016.
Challenging the decreeing of the Suit, the defendant has filed
http://www.judis.nic.in this Original Side Appeal.
3
2\. Facts leading to the filing of this appeal relevant for the disposal of
this case and briefly narrated are as follows. For the sake of convenience,
the appellant is referred to as the defendant and the respondent is referred
to as the plaintiff as per the nomenclature/array of parties adopted in the
impugned judgment.
2.1. The plaintiff is a Company incorporated under the provisions of the
Companies Act, 1956 and the defendant is a Private Limited Company
incorporated under the said Act. The case of the plaintiff is that one
Mr.Pranav Parikh along with two others, on 29.08.1979, had incorporated and
registered a Company called “Technova Plate Making Systems Private Limited and
from 14.09.1993, the name of the company was changed to “TechNova Imaging
Systems Limited”. There are groups companies also, namely (i) TechNova
Reprographic Systems (P) Limited; (ii) TechNova Hichem Systems (P) Limited;
(iii) TechNova Investment and Leasing (P) Limited; and (iv) TechNova Graphics
Private Limited (formerly known as Lunar Caustic Private Limited) and out of
the four companies, Sl.Nos.(i),
(ii) and (iii) had amalgamated with the plaintiff company in pursuant to the
order dated 30.09.2003 passed by the High Court of Bombay.
http://www.judis.nic.in  4 2.2. The plaintiff is the world's largest
manufacture of digital and analog offset plates, media, chemicals for inkjet
and laser applications and the products manufactured by the plaintiff are used
for advertising, signage, printing, packaging, textiles, engineering,
architecture, geology and business graphics and in all walks of commerce and
industry, particularly involved with printing. The plaintiff is also an
ISO-9002 registered enterprise, having 70% market share for each of it's
products in the Indian sub-continent. On 12.10.1995, the plaintiff company was
also incorporated in United States of America (USA) as a wholly owned
subsidiary and it is also having overseas branches at U.K., Dubai and Sri
Lanka.
2.3. The plaintiff has been marketing it's products under it's house mark
“TechNova” over the past three decades, all over India and abroad and it is
also having oversees offices and distribution network marketing products to
over 51 countries and it has also received very many prestigious awards. There
are 36 TechNova Imaging Centres spread throughout India and it has also
launched it's Online Shopping Portal called “TechNova” in the year 1996, which
enables customers to transact business with the plaintiff and it's group
organization interactively. In the year 1996, the plaintiff company also
established “TechNova Open University for Change” http://www.judis.nic.in
(TOUCH) for the purpose of providing technical knowledge through  5 training,
seminars and live demonstrations to keep pace with the technological advances
and to provide solutions to the end-user through constant interaction.
2.4. The plaintiff, right from it's inception from 1971, had introduced
several new technologies and is globally recognized as a pioneer and leader in
the filed of desktop computer to plate system for the Quick Print Industry and
it has been continuously and uninterruptedly using the trademark/house mark
“TechNova” in the course of the trade and the products manufactured and
marketed by the plaintiff under the said trademark, house mark and service
mark are identified, recognized and acknowledged globally by the trade and
industry as well known, premier products of high quality originating from the
plaintiff's source of manufacture.
2.5. The plaintiff is also a registered proprietor of the trademark/house mark
“TechNova (word per se / label) under Classes 1, 2, 10 – 12, 15, 18, 19, 24,
26-32 and 34 and it's applications for registration of the trademark
“TechNova” in remaining classes are pending for registration. The plaintiff
has so far made 74 applications for registration of the trademark “TechNova”
and out of said applications, 33 trademarks have http://www.judis.nic.in
already been registered and the remaining are at the advanced stage of  6
registration. The plaintiff has widespread and effective distribution network
in the Indian sub-continent and overseas countries and it is also enjoying
sales turnover gradually increased from 1999-2000 to 2003-2004 from Rs.157.48
Crores to Rs.233.02 Crores respectively and it has also spent considerable
amount towards advertisement and sales promotion for the last few years.
2.6. Thus, it is the claim of the plaintiff that it's trademark “TechNova” has
become a well known trademark known to a substantial segment of the public,
which uses goods in general and receives services and constitute cogent
reasons that qualify “TechNova” to being a well known trade mark within the
provisions of the Trade Marks Act, 1999 and on account of the said popular use
of the trademark “TechNova” by persons other than the plaintiff would be taken
as indicating a connection between the goods and services, as being the goods
and services emanating from the plaintiff and also took a stand they have not
authorized the defendant to use the mark “TechNova”.
2.7. The plaintiff, on one such occasion, became aware of the fact that a
company, namely TechNova Adventures Limited had applied for and had
http://www.judis.nic.in been granted permission to use “TechNova” as part of
it's corporate name  7 and applied to the Regional Director, Government of
India, Ministry of Law, Justice and Company Affairs, Department of Company
Affairs, Mumbai under Section 22 of the Companies Act, 1956 and vide order
dated 02.03.2000, the Regional Director directed the said concern to change
its name.
2.8. It is the specific case of the plaintiff that the defendant company came
to be incorported on 07.02.1986, originally in the name of M/s.Reflex Auto
Products Private Limited (Reflex) and it changed the name to “TechNova Tapes
(India) Private Limited with effect from 26.06.1995 and the said change of
name by including the plaintiff's house mark and well known trademark
“TechNova” was not to the knowledge of the plaintiff company. The plaintiff
became aware of the said development only on 24.06.2002 and immediately sent a
communication dated 25.09.2002 to the defendant pointing out that they are the
first / original adopters and prior users of the brand/trademark “TechNova”
and therefore, requested the defendant to effect change in the name of it's
company within a period o 15 days from the date of receipt of the notice. A
communication was sent by the defendant to the plaintiff on 27.11.2002 stating
that they would reply to the said notice shortly and however, they did not
respond. http://www.judis.nic.in  8 2.9. The plaintiff caused a Legal Notice
dated 11.09.2003, calling upon the defendant to change it's name within 15
days from the date of receipt of the said notice and the defendant, vide reply
dated 24.09.2003, denied the contents of the notice and also raised several
untenable allegations and to repute the same, a rejoinder dated 29.10.2003 was
sent by the defendant. Since the defendant did not abide the terms of the
Legal Notice, by invoking Section 22 of the Companies Act, the plaintiff took
out necessary application before the Regional Director of Companies, Southern
Region and the said official, after hearing both parties, had passed an order
dated 8.09.2004 inter alia directing the defendant to delete the word
“TechNova” from it's existing name and change to some other word prefixed
within 3 months thereafter.
2.10. The defendant, in it's former name, “Reflex” had filed Trademark
Application Nos.564260B and 564261B dated 23.12.1991 for registration of the
mark “TECHNOVA” under Classes 9 and 16 respectively of the Trade and
Merchandise Marks Act, 1958 and those applications were also advertised in the
Trade Mark Journal No.1 dated 14.06.2003. The plaintiff also lodged it's
opposition with the Trademarks Registry for refusal of the applications filed
by the defendant and the Assistant Registrar of http://www.judis.nic.in Trade
Marks, vide order dated 15.09.2004, ordered that the applications  9 filed by
the defendant are abandoned under Section 21(2) of the Trade Marks Act, 1999.
2.11. The defendant, despite the above cited proceedings, continues to market
it's products, namely adhesive tapes for use in industry under the plaintiff's
trademark “TechNova” and it has been established that the defendant is
surreptitiously carrying on business activities under the corporate name of
“TechNova” and also marketing the selling its products under the said name. It
is also the case of the plaintiff that the said adoption and use of their
trademark “TechNova” by the defendant is bound to cause confusion and
deception in the minds of purchasing public and the members of the trade and
it also amounts to infringement of statutory rights of the plaintiff apart
from enabling the defendant to pass off it's business as that of the plaintiff
and it's group companies. The act of the defendant in adopting such a mark is
nothing but dishonest and they sought to gain unlawfully from the reputation
and goodwill enjoyed by the plaintiff.
2.12. The plaintiff would further state that the customers, dealers and
consuming public in commerce and industry, many of whom will be common to both
the plaintiff and the defendant will be left wondering http://www.judis.nic.in
whether the defendants good under the impugned mark have emanated from  10 the
plaintiff or have been manufactured and marketed by the plaintiff or that the
defendant is in some way associated with the plaintiff and if any adverse
publicity is generated from poor quality of the defendant's goods or any
adverse activities of the defendant, it is bound to spoil the impeccable
reputation and goodwill which the plaintiff gained and maintained for quite
long time.
2.13. In sum and substance, it is the case of the plaintiff that the very
adoption of the impugned mark by the defendant is in bad faith, in order to
take unfair advantage, which will be detrimental to the distinctive character
and reputation of the plaintiff's trademark “TechNova” and no reason
whatsoever has been adduced by the defendant as to why it's name has been
changed all of a sudden from “Reflex Auto Products Pvt. Limited” to “TechNova
Tapes (India) Private Limited” and therefore, the plaintiff came forward to
file the above Suit.
3\. The appellant/defendant, refuting the averments made in the plaint, filed
the written statement, contending as follows:-
3.1. The plaintiff is very well aware of the name of the defendant from the
year 1995 onwards and however, belatedly filed a false and
http://www.judis.nic.in baseless application on 19.12.2003 under section 22 of
the Companies Act,  11 1956, praying for a direction for change of name of the
defendant's company and the said application also came to be filed after a
year from the date of issuance of legal notice on 25.09.2002 and suitable
reply was also sent.
3.2. The Regional Director – Authority constituted under the Companies Act,
passed an erroneous order on 28.09.2004, allowing the said application filed
by the plaintiff and making a challenge to the same, the defendant filed
WP..No.42939/2004 on the file of the High Court of Karnataka and initially,
interim stay of the operation of the order was passed on 19.10.2012.
3.3. The defendant's Company was incorporated under the provisions of the
Companies Act, 1956, at Bangalore, on 07.02.1986 with an object of
manufacturing and selling rear view mirrors and reflectors for Automobiles and
initially, the name of the Company was ''Reflex Auto Products Limited''. Later
on, the defendant Company diversified into manufacturing industrial adhesive
tapes and therefore, changed it's name to ''TechNova Tapes [India] Private
Limited'' with effect from 26.06.1995 and also obtained a fresh Certificate of
Incorporation to that effect. The defendant Company had chosen the new name as
it wanted to be an innovator in http://www.judis.nic.in technological
advancement and therefore, adopted ''TECH'' from the word  12 ''technology''
and ''NOVA'' from the word ''innovation'' which characterizes the variety of
specialised adhesive tapes developed and manufactured by it.
3.4. The defendant honestly adopted the name ''TechNova Tapes'' in the year
1995 and it is one of the fastest growing and leading manufacturers of the
said product in the Country and it sells more than 100 types of adhesive tapes
which are developed by them and the details of the same have also been given
in paragraph No.6 of the written statement. The defendant has been advertising
it's products in the name of ''TechNova'' in newspapers and magazines from the
year 1995 itself and however, have not preserved such advertisements and the
plaintiff, at no point of time or anyone had objected to the use of the name
''TechNova'' and their name and logo has been appearing prominently,
immediately after the name of the plaintiff in the Bangalore Telephone
Directory from the year 1995 itself. In paragraph No.9 of the written
statement, the defendant had given the list of their some reputed customers
which include LG Electronics, Voltas, Videocon, GE Power Controls, Matsushita
India Limited and others.
3.5. The defendant manufactures industrial adhesive tapes which is a
specialised field and also high technology oriented and its forte is also an
http://www.judis.nic.in innovative development of high technology, good
quality products with  13 emphasis of service and quality to the benefit of
its customers and due to its research and development efforts, it developed,
110 products of highest quality to international standards and supplies 100%
Export Oriented Units. The defendant Company is purchasing raw materials worth
more than Rs.3 Crores annually and thus, providing business to numerous
suppliers and in paragraph No.13 of the written statement, the details of the
Sales Tax, Excise Duty and Income Tax paid by them over the last three years
and in paragraph No.15, has given the sales figures. In paragraph No.16 of the
written statement, it had given the Annual Sales to its major customers. The
defendant would further aver that it had incurred substantial expenditure
towards advertisement of its products under the name ''TechNova'' and it
developed a network of dealership in various Cities across the Country and
maintains a large marketing team.
3.6. The defendant submitted an application for registration of it's Trademark
''TechNova'' under Classes 9 and 16 in the year 1991 and the proceedings are
pending and it is also having a registered website, viz.,
''www.TechNovatapes.com'' and it's customers and general public have been
perusing the said website. It is also the specific case of the defendant that
the word ''TechNova'' is not an unique word or a coined word and therefore,
http://www.judis.nic.in the plaintiff cannot claim any monopoly over it. The
word ''TechNova'' is  14 derived from two common words ''technology'' and
''innovation'', which by itself is a common word in the field of Commerce and
Industries.
3.7. The defendant also given the details as to the number of Companies in
India and abroad, having the name ''TechNova'' and has indicated through an
Internet research. The defendant also took a stand that if it is prevented
from marketing it's products under the trademark/trademark ''TechNova'', it
will suffer grave loss and irreparable injury for the reason that it had built
up goodwill and reputation of the said brand by virtue of its efforts and
investments over the last ten years and it has directly invested more than
Rs.2.5 Crores into it's business, apart from it's investment in terms of
manpower research and development. If any order of restraint is passed, apart
from loss of business, more than 550 persons, who are depending upon the
defendant business, will be left in lurch and its contribution to public
exchequer may also come down.
3.8. The defendant would further contend that the averments made in paragraph
No.17 of the plaint regarding house mark, are totally baseless and misleading
and denied the averment that the products manufactured and marketed by the
plaintiff are recognized and acknowledged by the alleged
http://www.judis.nic.in Trademark. The defendant has also denied the averments
made in paragraph  15 No.21 of the plaint as to the registered Proprietor of
the trademark/house mark ''TechNova'' under clauses 1, 2, 10 to 12, 15, 18,
19, 24, 26, 27 to 32 and 34 and it did not have any house mark in respect of
the word ''TechNova''.
3.9. It is also the specific stand of the defendant that at any rate, the
plaintiff having obtained registration in respect of some products under a
particular class, it does not give a total monopoly over use of the word
''TechNova'' in respect of all products under the class and that the
registered trademark holds good only in respect of the particular products and
services for which it has been granted. The defendant denied the averments
made in paragraph No.25 of the plaint and took a stand that it is having every
right to use the word ''TechNova'' and the question of the plaintiff
authorising the same, would not arise at all.
3.10. The defendant has also pointed out that they have been advertising it's
company products from the year 1995 itself under the name of ''TechNova''. The
defendant would further state that the averments made in paragraph No.29 of
the plaint as to the abandonment of their Trademark application under section
21(22) of the Trade Mark Act, 1999, and it has http://www.judis.nic.in also
made enquiries and found that the said order purported to have been  16 passed
based on the ground that they have neglected to submit the response to the
notice of opposition and it had also initiated appropriate steps to recall and
set aside the order dated 15.09.2004. The defendant therefore, based on the
averments made in the written statement, prayed for dismissal of the suit with
cost.
4\. A Learned Single Judge of this Court, after taking note of the averments
made in the plaint and the written statement, framed the following issues:-
> 1) Whether the defendant has infringed the plaintiff's trade mark?
> 2) Whether the act of defendant in changing it's Corporate name from Reflex
> Auto Products ]Pvt] Ltd., to TechNova Tapes [India] Pvt. Ltd., in not bona
> fide and in bad faith?
> 3) Whether the plaintiff is entitled for permanent injunction restraining
> the defendant from using the same 'TechNova' as part of its Corporate Name?
> 4) Whether the plaintiff is entitled for permanent injunction restraining
> the defendant from marketing its product under the name 'TechNova'?
> 5) Whether the suit is properly valued?
> 6) Whether the suit is belated and barred by limitation?
http://www.judis.nic.in
7) Whether the relief prayed for is barred due to the plaintiff's  17
acquiescence of the user of the name TechNova Tapes [India] Pvt. Ltd., by the
defendant?
8) Whether the products manufactured by the plaintiff and defendant are
different and of a specialized field distinguished from eah other in
technology?
9) Whether the name 'TechNova' is popular in the Commercial World?
10)Whether the plaintiff has a monopoly over the word 'TechNova'?
11)To what relief the plaintiff is entitled for?
5\. The proof affidavit of the plaintiff in lieu of the chief examination has
been filed by their Senior Consultant and they marked Exs.P1 to P10 and he was
examined as PW1 and was cross-examined also. The defendant had examined their
Managing Director as DW1 and marked Exs.D1 to D27 and he was cross-examined on
behalf of the plaintiff.
6\. The learned Single Judge, on consideration of pleadings and appreciation
of oral and documentary evidences, recorded the following findings:-
6.1. The plaintiff is the prior user of the Trademark ''TechNova'' having
obtained registration and the defendant, who had subsequently
http://www.judis.nic.in adopted the name of the plaintiff's mark, ought to
have searched before  18 adopting the said mark and the fact that the Company
was started by young technocrats and being in a formative initial years, will
not absolve the procedure or responsibility of the entrepreneur to follow the
legal procedure.
6.2. It is immaterial that the trade of the plaintiff and defendant is in the
same field or trading in different products and though the goods were
different, the Courts have repeatedly held that the defendant was not honest
on the basis of the action for passing off and the Court, on a combined
consideration of various aspects/factors like the market factors, class of
customers, the reputation etc., has to decide the confusion or deception as
likely to be caused and the defendant was not diligent enough while adopting
the mark. The defendant did not even mention in the written statement about
the reason for adopting trademark of the plaintiff from its original name,
viz., ''Reflex Auto Products [P] Ltd.'', which is totally unconnected.
6.3. The contention put forth by the defendant was that as the plaintiff and
the defendant are operating different lines of business, the question of
infringement does not arise. It is held that from the evidence available also,
http://www.judis.nic.in it is clear that the defendant had adopted the mark
''TechNova''  19 subsequently and it is not the registered Proprietor of the
trademark and having taken note of the claim of the plaintiff that it is the
fifth largest manufacturer and marketeer of Digital Plates and exports its
products to more than 60 Countries, having a turnover of several hundred
Crores and it is the quality of the products of the plaintiff that has given
distinct identity to them and their trademark ''TechNova'' became very
popular.
6.4. The plaintiff trademark had reputation in the market and allowing illegal
adoption of the plaintiff's trademark by the defendant would result in unfair
advantage and is detrimental to the plaintiff's distinct character and
therefore, the defendant had committed an act of infringement and it is liable
to be restrained from using the plaintiff's trademark.
6.5. The learned Judge, while dealing with the issue of passing off, has posed
a question as to whether the defendant by adopting the trademark of the
plaintiff, have deceived the public thinking that the services offered by the
defendant are that of the plaintiff or have originated or associated with the
plaintiff? A finding has been recorded that the plaintiff prima facie was able
to show that the mark ''TechNova'' is a well known mark and also enjoys
reputation overseas as well as in India and confusion would
http://www.judis.nic.in have created in the minds of the potential buyers for
the reason that the  20 defendant had adopted the trademark used by the
plaintiff for several decades and adoption of the said mark by the defendant
without exercise as to the existence of trademarks, similar in nature.
6.6. The change of name by the defendant from “Reflex Auto products Limited”
to ''TechNova Tapes [India] Pvt. Ltd.'' was done only with an intention to
exploit the goodwill of the plaintiff and therefore, continuous use of the
said trademark by the defendant would severely cause damage and prejudice to
the reputation and goodwill of the plaintiff and in the light of the fact that
the plaintiff had acquired reputation on account of adoption of the said mark
by the defendant, the public at large, is likely to be mislead to the effect
that the defendant's business is the business of the plaintiff or is a Branch
or the Department of the plaintiff's business. Therefore, the averments made
by the plaintiff as to the passing off, have been prima facie established.
6.7. The learned Judge, while dealing with acquiescence, has observed that it
is for the defendant to show that the plaintiff has acquiesced the act of the
defendant and after considering the cited decision, held that the contention
put forth by the defendant that the plaintiff being the
http://www.judis.nic.in proprietor of the earlier mark, had acquiesced for a
continuous period of  21 five years in the use of defendant's trademark is not
available to them in view of section 33(1) of the Trade Marks Act, 1999 and in
order to invoke the said provisions, the defendant must be a registered
proprietor of the mark, which is not the case of the defendant. The defendant
has also not satisfactorily offered explanation as to how they came to adopt
the trademark ''TechNova'' which is registered in the name of the plaintiff,
who is having a worldwide market and therefore, the plea of delay and laches
would not be of any help to the defendant and in case infringement is made
out, the question of acquiescence loses its significance.
6.8. The learned Judge, while dealing with section 29(4) of the Trade Marks
Act, 1999, found that section 29(4) was introduced in the year 1999 and while
dealing with section 159(4) of the Act, recorded a finding that the said
provision does not have any application to the facts of the case, as it deals
with appeal proceedings and likewise sub-section 5 to section 159 has no
application. The defendant did not fulfill both the conditions stipulated
under Section 159(5) and as such, it is not attracted and the defendant has
failed to offer any plausible explanation for changing their name from
''Reflex Auto Products Limited'' to ''TechNova Tapes [India] Private Limited''
and citing the said reasons, had decreed the suit in favour of the
http://www.judis.nic.in plaintiff as prayed for without cost.
22
7\. The defendant, challenging the judgment and decree, in decreeing the Suit
in favour of the plaintiff, has filed the present Original Side Appeal and it
was admitted on 16.03.2017 and in CMP.No.4967/2017, interim stay of the
operation and execution of the impugned judgment and decree, was granted.
8\. Mr.P.S.Raman, learned Senior Counsel assisted by Mrs.Gladys Daniel,
learned counsel appearing for the appellant / defendant made the following
submissions:
8.1. The learned Judge has failed to take into consideration that the
plaintiff and defendant are manufacturing completely different products and
the range of consumers are also different and under the Trade and Merchandise
Marks Act, 1958, infringement of trademark is said to have been committed only
if the trademark is used in relation to any goods in respect of which the
trademark is registered and not otherwise. The adoption and usage of the
trademark by the defendant and the registration of the trademark by the
plaintiff, are prior to 15.09.2003 when the New Trade Marks Act, 1999, came
into force. Therefore, the appellant/defendant was well within it's rights to
adopt and use the trademark ''TechNova'' in respect of completely different
products.
http://www.judis.nic.in  23 8.2. The learned Judge has failed to consider and
appreciate the oral evidences let in on behalf of the plaintiff and the
defendant and recorded a finding that the appellant/defendant has failed to
offer any plausible explanation for adopting the name of ''TechNova'' and
pointed out that DW1, during the course of cross-examination, had given the
reason for change of name as it had shifted the line of activity / focus of
business from Reflex Auto Mirrors to Technical Innovative adhesive Tapes and
no reason has been given as to the disbelievement of the testimony of DW1.
8.3. The learned Judge has also committed an error by giving a finding on the
part of the appellant/defendant in filing TM-54 application and the said
procedure is not mandatory prescribed under the Act.
8.4. PW1 had also deposed that there is no evidence to show that when the
name/word ''TechNova'' was coined and the basis on which it was coined and the
respondent/plaintiff did not let in any evidence of user or claim nor any
sales figures etc., as to the usage from the year 1971 and the concurrent
evidence provided in the form of registered Trademark Certificate which shows
that the trademark was applied in the year 1989 and came to be registered in
the year 2001 and the same, by itself does not prove http://www.judis.nic.in
the user claim.
24
8.5. The learned Judge despite arriving at a finding as to the different range
of products manufactured by the plaintiff and defendant, did not discuss the
said aspect while decreeing the suit and also failed to take note of the fact
that admittedly, the products manufactured by them are different and
therefore, the possibility of confusion did not arise and not likely also and
also failed to consider section 29(3) of the Trade Marks Act, 1999, which
states that in case of infringement of a mark for dissimilarity in goods and
service, there is no presumption or confusion and infringement of the mark.
8.6. The learned Judge has erred in arriving at the finding that the
respondent/plaintiff is entitled to the provision under section 29(3) of the
Act, despite the fact it did not produce any evidence as to the fulfillment of
the requirements under Section 29(4)(c) of the Act and only when all the
conditions referred to under the said provisions are satisfied, then
infringement be said to have been committed.
8.7. The learned Judge further failed to take note of the fact that the
respondent/plaintiff had failed to make the case through oral and
http://www.judis.nic.in documentary evidence as to the reputation it had
developed that would  25 subsist across description of the goods and
reputation and goodwill are clear factual matters requiring unimpeachable
evidence and in the absence of any such evidence, the use of the same
trademark by the appellant/defendant as to the cause of detriment to the
plaintiff and thereby, decreeing the suit as prayed for, is totally
unsustainable on facts and in law.
8.8. The respondent/plaintiff has also failed to prove the user claim and
reputation in respect of their goodwill ever since the year 1991 and mere
presence of trademark registration does not show user claim. It is not as if
the respondent/plaintiff for the first time had coined the word ''TechNova''
for the reason that the appellant/defendant had produced enough and sufficient
evidence to show that the name ''TechNova'' is used by 81 Companies registered
with the Ministry of Corporate Affairs of Government of India, as evidenced
under Ex.D26 and that apart, various companies throughout the Globe have also
adopted the said trademark and even in respect of other Companies in India,
which are using the mark ''TechNova'', the respondent/plaintiff did not
proceed against them.
8.9. The finding rendered by the learned Judge as to acquiescence is also
unsustainable for the reason that in one of the documents marked on
http://www.judis.nic.in their behalf, ie., Telephonic Directory would disclose
that side by side, the  26 name of the plaintiff and defendant appears at
least from the year 1995 and belatedly, the respondent/plaintiff filed the
said Suit and in the light of the same, the Suit ought to have been dismissed
on the ground of delay, laches and acquiescence.
8.10. Ex.D8 marked on behalf of the appellant/defendant would also disclose
that the respondent/plaintiff was very well aware of the adoption of the said
mark by the appellant/defendant and therefore, the findings recorded by the
learned Judge that the respondent/plaintiff was not guilty of laches, is also
unsustainable.
8.11. The finding recorded by the learned Judge that the appellant/defendant's
application for Trademark registration under Classes 9 and 16 have been
abandoned without taking note of the fact that under Ex.D11, the order of
abandonment has been recalled and DW1 had also spoken to that effect in his
cross examination.
8.12.The learned Judge has misconstrued Section 33(1) of the Trade Marks Act,
1999. The learned Judge has also failed to take note of the fact that there is
no specific prayer as to the infringement of the registered
http://www.judis.nic.in trademark and in the absence of any reason, the decree
granting permanent  27 injunction is in violation of Article 19[1][g] of the
Constitution of India and also in violation of the Monopoly and Restrictive
Trade Practices Act [MRTP Act].
8.13. Insofar as passing off is concerned, in the light of the fact that there
was acquiescence by the respondent/plaintiff and in the light of Section 33(1)
of the Trade Marks Act, the finding recorded by the learned Judge as to the
said issue is also totally unsustainable and the learned Judge has also failed
to take into consideration the fundamental and important aspect that the
trademark ''TechNova'' was common to the trade and it is not even the case of
the respondent/plaintiff that it coined the said word first and adopted it.
9\. In sum and substance, it is the submission of the learned Senior Counsel
appearing for the appellant/defendant that the learned Judge in the impugned
judgment and decree, have not properly appreciated the oral and documentary
evidences in proper perspective and misconstrued the relevant provisions under
the Trade and Merchandise Mark Act, 1958 as well as the Trade Marks Act, 1999,
and despite overwhelming evidence available on record, the line of activity,
products manufactured by the http://www.judis.nic.in appellant/defendant and
the respondent/plaintiff are entirely different and  28 there is no likelihood
of confusion and that the respondent/plaintiff has miserably failed to
establish or sustain its case as to the dishonest user of the word/mark
''TechNova'' on the part of the appellant/defendants and the findings recorded
by the learned Judge on the issues framed, are totally unsustainable on facts
and in law and hence, prays for interference.
10\. The learned Senior Counsel appearing for the appellant/defendant, in
support of his contentions, has also placed reliance upon the following
judgments:-
> 1\. AIR 1963 SC 449 [Amirtdhara Pharmacy Vs. Satya Deo Gupta] ;
> 2\. 1994 Manu SC 1166 [J.R.Kapoor Vs. Micornix India] ;
> 3\. 1996 Manu SC 583 [Vishnudas Trading as Vishnudas Kishandas Vs. Vazir
> Sultan Tobacco C. Ltd., Hyderabad and others] ;
> 4\. 2011 [48] PTC 1 [Del] [Radico Khaitan Limited Vs. Carlsberg India
> Private Limited] ;
> 5\. 2017 Manu Maharashtra 222 [CIPLA Limited Vs. M/s. CIPLA Industries
> Private Limited and Another] ; and
> 6\. 2018 Manu SC 779 [Nandhini Deluxe Vs. Karnataka Cooperative Milk
> Producers Federation Limited].
http://www.judis.nic.in  29
11\. Per contra, Mr.S.P.Chockalingam, learned counsel appearing for the
respondent/plaintiff made the following submissions:
> (i) The plaintiff is the prior user/adopter of the mark "TechNova" even in
> the year 1971 and also the registered proprietor of Classes 1 and 2 of the
> said mark. The defendant came to be incorporated in the year 1986 by the
> name “Reflex Auto Products Private Limited (Reflex)” and in the year 1995,
> changed it's name to “TechNova Tapes (India) Private Limited” and applied
> for registration for the purpose of proposing to use it in future and
> however, have not given genuine reasons for change of the name from “Reflex
> Auto Products Private Limited” to “TechNova Tapes” and therefore, it cannot
> be construed as honest and concurrent use.
> (ii) Though it is the stand of the defendant that it's products are
> different, the fact remains that the trademark/housemark remains the same
> and it is also an identical mark and as such, they cannot use it.
(iii) The products manufactured by the plaintiff are put to use for
advertising, printing, packaging, textiles, engineering, architecture, geology
and business graphics and in all walks of commerce and industry, particularly
involved in printing and it is also an ISO 9002 company, which is marketing
it's products under its trademark "TechNova" over past three decades all over
India and abroad and it is http://www.judis.nic.in continuously and
uninterruptedly using the said  30 trademark/housemark "TechNova" in the
course of the trade and as such, the said trademark was identified, recognized
and acknowledged globally by the trade and industry as well known, premier
products of high quality and that apart, it is also a registered proprietor of
the trademark "TechNova" under Classes 1, 2, 10, 11, 12, 15, 18, 19, 24, 26 to
32 and 34 and sofar, made 74 applications for registration of the said mark
and out of which, 33 Trade Marks have already been registered.
(iv) The trade channel is one and the same and as such, any user of the
trademark/housemark "Trademark" by the defendant is bound to create confusion
to the customers/consumers and in all probability, would think that the
products manufactured and sold by the defendant are as that of the plaintiff
and if there is any complaint or allegation as to inferior quality, it would
definitely affect their reputation and goodwill.
(v) Admittedly, the defendant do not have registered trademark and as such,
they cannot have protection under Sections 29(4) and 159(5) of the Trademarks
Act, 1999 and to avail the benefit of the said provisions, there should have a
registered trademark and admittedly, they did not have it and in the light of
Section 34 of the Trademarks Act, 1999, the plaintiff is having vested right
over the said trademark. http://www.judis.nic.in  31
(vi) As regards delay and acquiescence, the Telephone Directory marked as
Ex.D8 would not come to the aid of the defendant for the reason that it is an
honest and concurrent user and though it is the contention of the defendant
that the mark "TechNova" is used by very many companies in India and abroad
and that the plaintiff did not take action against them except against few,
more particularly against the defendant and in the absence of any registration
and on account of dishonest use by taking advantage of the trademark/housemark
of the plaintiff, the defendant wants to gain unjust enrichment.
(vii) Attention of this Court was also invited to Ex.P12 viz., Interim Order
dated 19.10.2004 made in W.P.No.42939 of 2004 passed by the High Court of
Karnataka at Bangalore, wherein at that point of time, taking into
consideration all the relevant aspects, especially Section 22 of the Companies
Act, the said interim order was granted.
(viii) The defendant viz., “Reflex Auto Products Private Limited” had filed
trademark applications for registration of the trademark under Classes 9 and
16 of the Trade and Merchandise Act, 1958 and the plaintiff lodged Notices of
Opposition and the Assistant Registrar of Trademarks, vide order dated
15.09.2004, had recorded that the applications filed by the defendant is
abandoned under Section 21(2) of the Trade Marks Act, 1999 and despite the
said fact, the defendant http://www.judis.nic.in has surreptitiously carrying
on business activities under the trademark/housemark of the plaintiff and also
marketing and  32 selling it's products in the name of “TechNova”, which is
similar and identical to the plaintiff's corporate name and house mark and the
same would definitely bound to create confusion, especially in the event of
any adverse publicity generated on account of poor quality of the defendant's
goods or any activities and the acts of the defendant in adopting the said
mark is per se malafide and it would be detrimental to the distinctive
character and reputation of the plaintiff's trademark “TechNova”.
(ix) The defendant has deliberately adopted the mark “TechNova” to take
advantage of the matter to have piggyback right on the plaintiff's right,
reputation and goodwill by dishonestly adopting the said trademark detrimental
to the business interest of the plaintiff.
(x) The learned Single Judge, on a thorough consideration and appreciation of
the pleadings, oral and documentary evidence, has rightly reached the
conclusion to decree the Suit and therefore, prays for dismissal of this
Original Side Appeal.
The learned counsel appearing for the respondent/plaintiff, has placed
reliance upon the following decisions:
(i) Prakash Roadline Limited v. Prakash Parcel Service Private
http://www.judis.nic.in Limited [CDJ 1992 DHC 389]  33
(ii) Bengal Waterproof Ltd., v. Bombay Waterproof Manufacturing Co., [1997
(17) PTC 98 (SC)]
(iii) Bhagwan Dass Gupta (alias Agarwal) v. Shri Shiv Shankar Tirath Yatra
Company Pvt. Ltd., [2001 (21) PTC 676 (Del)]
(iv) P.V.Anvar v. P.K.Basheer & Others [CDJ 2014 SC 790]
(v) Walter Bushnell Pvt. Ltd. & Others v. Miracle Life Sciences & Another
[2014 (59) PTC 339 (Del)]
(vi) Nandhini Deluxe v. Karnataka Co-Operative Milk Producers Federation Ltd.,
[2018 (75) PTC 209 (SC)].
12\. In response to the said submission, the learned Senior Counsel appearing
for the appellant/defendant would submit that the decision in Vazir Sultan
Tobacco case (cited supra) rendered by the Hon'ble Supreme Court still remains
as a good law and Section 29(4) of the Trade Marks Act, 1999 would cut across
the classes and in the absence of any evidence regarding goodwill and
reputation, it is not open to the respondent/plaintiff to contend that in the
event of any adverse publicity as regards the products of the defendant, the
plaintiff bound to suffer and the stand of the respondent/plaintiff is per se
unsustainable. It is further contended that admittedly, the products
manufactured by the plaintiff and the defendant are http://www.judis.nic.in
entirely different and there are no common claims and the trade channel of  34
the defendant is entirely different from that of the plaintiff and that apart,
the name “TechNova” is also used by very many companies in India and abroad
and the plaintiff, for obvious reasons, had targeted only the defendant and
therefore, prays for quashment of the impugned judgment and decree and
allowing of this appeal.
13\. This Court paid it's best attention to the rival submissions and also
perused the pleadings, oral and documentary evidence and also the original
records.
14\. The following questions/issues arise for consideration: (1) Whether the
act of the defendant in using the name “TechNova” is bonafide or in good
faith?
(2) Whether the products manufactured by the appellant/defendant and the
respondent/plaintiff are altogether different and can be distinguished?
(3) Whether the respondent/plaintiff is having monopoly over the word
“TechNova” and whether it is popular in commercial parlance ? (4) Whether the
impugned judgment and decree passed in favour of the respondent/plaintiff
warrant interference ?
http://www.judis.nic.in  35 QUESTION NO.1
15\. Let this Court considers the oral and documentary evidence let in by both
parties.
16\. On behalf of the respondent/plaintiff, Mr.Madhusudan Velji Parmer was
examined as PW1 and in the proof affidavit filed in lieu of chief examination,
marked Exs.P1 to P12.
16.1. PW1 in the cross examination would depose the following:
“There is no document to show that the name “TechNova” was coined and however,
a partnership firm between Pranav Parikh and his family members was registered
in July, 1971 with the name “TechNova”and the said documents has not been
filed and therefore, he do not know on what basis the name “TechNova” was
coined.” 16.2. PW1 denied the suggestion that the plaintiff was aware of the
defendant company from the year 1995. PW1 believe that the plaintiff has
registration of the trademark in Classes 9 and 16 relating to industrial
adhesive tapes and he was not aware about the names of the plaintiff and
defendant being found in the Bangalore Telephone Directory (Ex.D8) from 1995
onwards.
http://www.judis.nic.in  36 16.3. PW1 was not aware that the products
manufactured by the plaintiff and the defendant are totally different. PW1 was
not aware that the defendant has been marketing more than 80 different types
of tapes which have various specialized application. “TechNova” is the well
known brand/trademark and therefore, the defendant could have been enticed to
use that word and he do not know that the word “TechNova” is an abridged
version of common words.
16.4. PW1 was questioned as to whether “The word TechNova is used by thousands
of people all over the world in respect of various products?” and the answer
given by PW1 was that “some of the parties names in India found similar to
ours have been contested by us successfully and one party in Turkey and have
not filed any proof in that regard”.
16.5. PW1 was not aware as to very many companies with the name “TechNova”
including the defendant have online websites, shopping portals etc., and would
depose that the name adopted by the defendant is similar to that of the
plaintiff.
http://www.judis.nic.in
17\. On behalf of the defendant, proof affidavit was filed by A.Arvind  37
Rao, Managing Director of the defendant company and marked Exs.D1 to D27. In
the cross examination, DW1 would depose as follows:
17.1. The company of the defendant was originally incorporated as “Reflex Auto
Products Pvt. Ltd.” and initially they were into the manufacture of rear view
automative mirrors and from the year 1995 onwards, changed the name to
“TechNova Tapes (India) Private Limited” and diversified into the manufacture
of Industrial Adhesive Tapes and to use “TechNova” as brand name, they applied
for registration in the year 1991 in Classes 9 and 16. The defendant derived
the name “Tech” from technology and “Nova” from innovation.
17.2. The defendant became aware of the existence of the plaintiff company
from the Telephone Directory (Ex.D8) in the year 1995. The defendant did not
submit any proof to show that they have paid Rs.1.05 Crores towards tax and
duties. An ordinary layman cannot go and purchase adhesive tapes over the
counter and they are not available in the shops and the purchaser places the
order directly to the company to procure the tapes and in their brand, apart
from the word, there is a logo, which was created by us in the year 2005.
Google search reveals that there are more than http://www.judis.nic.in
thousands of companies which have their name “TechNova” and Ex.D13  38 also
evidencing the same.
18\. This Court has also taken into consideration the relevant provisions of
the Trade and and Merchandise Marks Act, 1958 and the Trade Marks Act, 1999.
19\. Section 28 of the Trade and Merchandise Marks Act, 1958 speaks about
rights conferred by registration and sub-section (3) of the said sections
reads as follows:
> “28.Rights conferred on registration-
> .......
(3) Where two or more persons are registered proprietors of trade marks, which
are identical with or nearly resemble each other, the exclusive right to the
use of any of those trade marks shall not (except so far as their respective
rights are subject to any conditions or limitations entered on the register)
be deemed to have been acquired by any one of those persons as against any
other of those persons merely by registration of the trade marks but each of
these persons has otherwise the same rights as against other persons (not
being registered users using by way of permitted use) as he would have if he
were the sole registered proprietor.”
20\. It is the submission of the learned Senior Counsel appearing for the
appellant/defendant that the said provision is relatable only to the goods and
services, for which trademark is registered and not relatable to the class of
goods and it is also contended that the goods of the appellant/defendant is
http://www.judis.nic.in a different class of goods and there may be cause of
action only after  39 infringement and not for passing of and that apart,
Ex.D8 would disclose that the respondent/plaintiff, despite having
acquiescence, did not act/react for so long. The learned Senior Counsel
appearing for the appellant/defendant has also relied upon Section 159(5) of
the Trade Marks Act, 1999 to say that “Notwithstanding anything contained in
this Act, where a particular use of a registered trade mark is not an
infringement of a trade mark registered before the commencement of this Act,
then, the continued use of that mark shall not be an infringement under this
Act”.
21\. The pleadings of the respondent/plaintiff are that it is a registered
proprietor of the trademark/house mark “TechNova (word per se / label) under
Classes 1, 2, 10 – 12, 15, 18, 19, 24, 26-32 and 34 and the plaintiff has so
far made 74 applications for registration of the trademark “TEHNOVA” and out
of said applications, 33 trademarks have already been registered and the
remaining applications are at the advanced stage of registration. It is the
specific grievance of the plaintiff that the use of the trademark “TechNova”
by a person other than the plaintiff would be taken as indicating a connection
between the goods and services as being the goods and services emanating from
the plaintiff and the said person and the plaintiff did not authorize the
defendant to use the mark “TechNova” and http://www.judis.nic.in the defendant
is surreptitiously carrying on business activities under the  40 corporate
name “TechNova”and also marketing and selling it's products in the name of
“TechNova”, which is identical with the plaintiff's corporate name and house
mark and the adoption and use by the defendant of an identical corporate name
as that of the plaintiff trademark “TechNova” is bound to cause confusion and
deception in the minds of the purchasing public and the members of the trade
and it amounts to infringement of the statutory rights of the plaintiff apart
from enabling the defendant to pass off it's goods as that of the plaintiff
and it not only amounts to dishonest adoption, but also to get unfair
advantage and it would be detrimental to the plaintiff's distinctive character
and reputation of the plaintiff's trademark.
22\. Ex.P3 series are the Registered Trademark Certificates and Renewals of
the plaintiff. PW1, who was examined on behalf of the plaintiff, would depose
among other things that there is no proof in the document exhibits Exs.P1 to
P11 filed by the plaintiff to show that the plaintiff manufactures Industrial
Adhesive Tapes, though in the earlier paragraphs he deposed that he believe as
to the plaintiff's registration of the trademark under Classes 9 an 16 relate
to Industrial Adhesive Tapes. It is also admitted by him that no document has
been filed by the plaintiff to show as to the Industrial Adhesive Tapes.
http://www.judis.nic.in  41
23\. The primordial claim of the plaintiff is that it has been marketing it's
products under the house mark “TechNova” over the last three decades all over
India and abroad and it's products are used for advertising, signage, printing
and packaging as well as textiles, engineering, architecture, geology and
business graphics and in all walks of commerce and industry, particularly
involved with printing and it is having 70% market share for each of it's
products in the Indian sub-continent.
24\. PW1, in the cross examination, would depose that “TechNova” is a well
known brand and therefore, the defendant could have been enticed to use that
word and he do not know that the word “TechNova” is an abridged version of
common words and he was not aware that the defendant has been marketing more
than 80 different types of tapes, which have various specialized applications.
A specific question was put to PW1 that the word “TechNova” is used by
thousands of persons all over the world in respect of various products and the
answer was that some of the parties in India similar to them have been
contested by them successfully and one party in Turkey and he have not filed
any proof in that regard. In answer to a question “Are you aware that many
companies with the name “TechNova” including http://www.judis.nic.in the
defendant have online websites, shopping portals etc., PW1 stated that  42 “I
am not aware”. Similarly number of questions has been put as to the use of
name “TechNova” by companies both in India and abroad and the standard answer
given by PW1 was that he was not aware.
25\. Per contra, the appellant/defendant had marked Exs.D14 to D24 to show
that the word “TechNova” is being used by very many companies throughout the
world and in the light of the testimony of PW1, it cannot be said that the
respondent/plaintiff has innovated the word “TechNova” and by using it as it's
companies mark, it gained distinctiveness.
26\. The Intellectual Property Appellate Board, Chennai, in the decision in
E.I. Du Pont De Nemours & Co., v. Zip Industries Private Limited, Chennai
[2004 (28) PTC 174 (IPAB)], had considered the very similar issue. The facts
of the said case would disclose that the Assistant Registrar of Trademark has
disallowed E.I. Du Pont's opposition, opposing the registration of
respondent's trademark and allowed the registration of the Trade Mark
“TUFFLON” in respect of Zip Fasteners in Class 26 of the Trade and Merchandise
Marks Act, 1958. In paragraph No.15 of the said order, the Tribunal has taken
into consideration the contention put forward on behalf of the appellant
therein that the respondent, namely “Zip http://www.judis.nic.in Industries
Private Limited, Chennai” have not honestly adopted the  43 trademark and they
have copied their trademark and considering the same, the Tribunal held that
the appellant cannot claim monopoly for the trademark “TEFLON” in respect of
all classes, just because they had registered their mark in India in a few
classes.
27\. In a similar case, the IPAB, in the decision in E.I. Du Pont De Nemours &
Co., v. Gemini Distilleries Ltd., [2004 (28) PTC 663 (IPAB)], has considered
the similar issue and held that the appellant registered their trademark “DU
PONT” in respect of few classes and as such, they cannot claim monopoly for
the word “DU PONT” in respect of goods falling under other classes of goods,
for which they have not registered.
28\. This Court, from the pleadings extracted above and on analysis of the
facts and circumstances, found that the goods manufactured by the
appellant/defendant and the respondent/plaintiff are altogether different and
the respondent/plaintiff has failed to probablise that they first innovated,
rather coined the word “TechNova” and as such, anybody can use the said name.
No doubt, the plaintiff is having the benefit of registration of the trademark
/ house mark “TechNova” in the above cited classes and in the light of the
testimony of PW1, rather admission on the part of PW1, it
http://www.judis.nic.in cannot be said that the appellant/defendant by
adopting the said mark from  44 the year 1995 is guilty of dishonest adoption
and that such kind of act is not bonafide and has been done in bad faith.
Therefore, Question No.1 is answered in affirmative in favour of the
appellant/defendant. QUESTION NO.2
29\. This Court, while dealing with Question No.1 has dealt with the said
aspects also and paragraph No.6 of the plaint reads that the plaintiff is the
world's largest manufacturer of digital and analog offset plates, media and
chemicals for inkjet and laser applications and the products manufactured by
the plaintiff are used for advertising, signage, printing and packaging etc.,
(stated supra). The products of the defendant are specialized Industrial
Adhesive Tapes and in paragraph No.6 of the written statement, they would
state that they manufacture Aluminium Foil Adhesive Tape, Polyester Insulation
Adhesive Tape, Kapton Insulation Adhesive Tape, Noxed Adhesive Tape, Double
Sided Tissue Tapes and Nylon Fabric Adhesive Tapes and through it's own
research and development, it has developed over 110 different products of
highest quality to international standards and supplies to 100% Export
Oriented Units and it sells it's products only through wholesale trade. In
paragraph No.9 of the written statement, the defendant has given the list of
some of the reputed customers, http://www.judis.nic.in which include LG
Electronics Ltd., Voltas Limited ,Videocon, Electrolux,  45 Ponds, Godrej,
Carrier Refrigeration Ltd., GE Power Controls, BPL Refrigeration Ltd., Toyota
Kirloskar Limited etc. Thus, the products manufactured by the plaintiff and
the defendant are altogether different.
30\. The only apprehension expressed by the plaintiff is that the use of the
word “TechNova” by persons other than the plaintiff would be taken as
indicating a connection between the goods and services being the goods and
services emanating from their stable and in the event of generation of any
adverse publicity on account of poor quality of the goods, the defendant is
bound to suffer which they had achieved for very many years.
31\. A perusal of Ex.D8 would disclose that the name of the defendant viz.,
Technova Tapes (India) Pvt. Ltd., continued to appear from the year 1995, just
next to the plaintiff's name and initially they did not object and on
25.09.2002, under Ex.P2, they sent a letter for desist for which a reply under
Ex.P5 was given dated 27.11.2002 and thereafter, there were exchange of
notices under Exs.P6, P7 and P8 and the Suit came to be filed only during
October, 2004.
32\. The learned Judge has dealt with Issue Nos.6 to 10 from
http://www.judis.nic.in Paragraph No.27 onwards of the impugned judgment and
also referred to  46 various decision cited on behalf of both parties and
found that the conditions for invocation of Section 159(5) of the Trade Marks
Act, 1999 have not been satisfied by the defendant and it failed to offer any
plausible explanation from changing their name from “Reflex Auto Products
Private Limited” to “TechNova Tapes (India) Private Limited” and also held
that the submission made as to the honest and concurrent use is unsustainable.
33\. In Vishnudas Trading as Vishnudas Kishandas v. Vazir Sultan Tobacco Co.
Ltd., Hyderabad and Ors. [(1997) 4 SCC 201 = AIR 1996 SC 2275], the appellant
namely, Vishnudas Kishandas had applied for registration of quiwam and zarda
with trade mark “Charminar” under the Trade and Merchandise Marks Act, 1958
and the Trade Marks Rules, 1959 framed under the said Act and it was objected
by the respondent, namely Vazir Sultan Tobacco Co. Ltd., which was in the
manufacture of cigarettes under the brand name “Charminar” and therefore, the
appellant filed two applications for rectification of the trademark of the
respondent and the rectification was ordered with a direction to make the
entries relating to specification of goods to be read as “Cigarettes”.
Challenging the same, the respondent filed two statutory appeals before this
Court and it was allowed and further challenge made to a Division Bench of
this Court had also ended http://www.judis.nic.in in dismissal and therefore,
the matter reached the portals of the Hon'ble  47 Supreme Court. In paragraph
No.43 of the said judgment, the Hon'ble Supreme Court observed that “...In the
common trade channel such articles are not only held different and distinct
articles but are marketed separately. It does not require any imagination to
hold that snuff or quivam are entirely different products and even though the
said product and the cigarettes, bidis, cheroot are also made of tobacco and
all such products may come under the broad classification 'manufactured
tobacco', each of the said products is always held as a distinct and separate
article of use having its specific characteristics”. In Paragraph No.44 of the
said judgment, the Hon'ble Apex Court has taken note of the registration of
the respondent's company brand name “Charminar” and observed that “.... the
said registration is limited only in respect of the articles being
manufactured and marketed by the respondent company, namely cigarettes. In our
view, if a trader or manufacturer actually trades in or manufactures only one
or some of the articles coming under a broad classification and such trader or
manufacturer has no bonafide intention to trade in or manufacture other goods
or articles which also fall under the said broad classification, such trader
or manufacturer should not be permitted to enjoy monopoly in respect of all
the articles which may come under such broad classification and by that
process http://www.judis.nic.in preclude the other traders or or manufactures
to get registration of  48 separate and distinct goods which may also be
ground under the broad classification”.
34\. In Nandhini Deluxe v. Karnataka Co-operative Milk Producers Federation
Ltd. [2018 (9) Scale 202 = (2018) 9 SCC 183], the Hon'ble Apex Court held that
the issue pertains to the mark “NANDHINI” and the respondent, namely Karnataka
Co-operative Milk Producers Federation Ltd. adopted the said mark in the year
1985 and under this brand name, it has been producing and selling milk and
milk products and also got registration of the said mark under Class 29 and 30
and the appellant, namely Nandini Deluxe is in the business of running
restaurants and it adopted the mark 'NANDHINI” for its restaurants in the year
1989 and it applied for registration of the said mark and it was opposed by
the respondent and the objections were rejected and registration was ordered.
It was the contention of the respondent therein that the mark used by the
appellant is deceptively similar to the mark of the respondent and it likely
to cause confusion and that they have distinctive character and is well known
to the public and it is having exclusive right to use the said mark which lead
the public to believe that the foodstuffs sold by the appellant are in fact
that of the respondent. The Hon'ble Supreme Court of India, while dealing with
the said issue, has http://www.judis.nic.in taken note of Vishnudas case
(cited supra) and after taking into  49 consideration the decision in Polaroid
Corporation v. Polarad Electronics Corporation [MANU/FESC/0209/1961] as well
as its earlier decision in National Sweing Thread Co. Ltd., v. James Chadwick
and Bros. [AIR 1953 SC 357], in paragraph No.28 observed that, “Applying the
aforesaid principles to the instance case, when we find that not only visual
appearance of the two marks is different, they even relate to different
products. Further, the manner in which they are traded by the Appellant and
Respondent respectively, highlighted above, it is difficult to imagine that an
average man of ordinary intelligence would associate the goods of the
Appellant as that of the Respondent”.
The Hon'ble Apex Court, in the above cited decision, after taking note of
Vishnudas case (cited supra) and also the Trade and Merchandise Act, 1958 and
Trade Marks Act, 1999, in paragraph No.31 observed that “the proprietor of a
trade mark cannot enjoy monopoly over the entire class of goods and
particularly, when he is not using the said trade mark in respect of certain
goods falling under the same class” and in paragraph No.32, concluded that
“use of the trade mark 'NANDINI' by the appellant in respect of its different
goods would not be detrimental to the purported distinctive character or
repute of the trade mark of the respondent” and citing the said reasons, had
set aside the orders of the IPAB and the High Court and allowed the appeals by
upholding the order of the Deputy Registrar of Trade Marks granting
registration in favour of the appellant. http://www.judis.nic.in  50
35\. In the considered opinion of the Court, the above cited decision, on
facts and on law, would apply to the present case.
36\. Admittedly, the products of the appellant/defendant and the
respondent/plaintiff are altogether different and no evidence has been adduced
by the plaintiff as to the dishonest use of the trademark “TechNova” by the
defendant and there is no likelihood of customers/consumers of the plaintiff
getting deceived or confused on account of the same.
37\. This Court, while answering Question No.1, has also given findings that
the word “TechNova” is not unique to the plaintiff alone and it cannot claim
that it innovated/coined the said word. The appellant/defendant, through
Exs.D20 to D24 had amply sustained it's case that there are very many
companies in the world including in India using the trademark “TechNova” and
therefore, on account of adoption of the trademark/house mark of the
plaintiff, the name, fame and reputation of the plaintiff have not been
affected in any manner and the apprehension expressed by the plaintiff that in
the event of inferior quality of the products http://www.judis.nic.in of the
defendant, the people might think and believe that such product  51 emanated
from the plaintiff and thereby, they would be put to loss of reputation and
goodwill, is not supported by any evidence.
38\. Therefore, Question No.2 is answered in affirmative in favour of the
appellant/defendant.
QUESTION NO.3
39\. The answers given to Question Nos.1 and 2 covers this issue/question and
the plaintiff, in the light of the reasons assigned above, cannot claim that
it is having monopoly over the word “TechNova” and therefore, the said
question is answered in affirmative in favour of the appellant/defendant.
QUESTION NO.4
40\. The learned counsel appearing for the respondent/plaintiff, by placing
heavy reliance upon Section 29 (4) of the Trade Marks Act, 1999, would submit
that since it has good reputation in India and on account of use of the said
mark by the defendant, it would get unfair advantage and thereby, cause
detriment to their name, fame, reputation and goodwill and has also placed
reliance upon the following decisions: http://www.judis.nic.in  52
(i) Express Bottlers Services Pvt. Ltd., v. Pepsi Inc. & Others [1989 (9) PTC
14(Cal.)]
(ii) Dr.Reddy's Laboratories Ltd. v. Reddy Pharmaceuticals Limited [2004 (29)
PTC 435 (Del.)]
(iii) D.R.Cosmetics Pvt. Ltd. & Anr. v. J.R.Industries [2008 (38) PTC 28
(Bom.)]
(iv) Rolex SA v. Alex Jewellery Pvt. Ltd. and Ors. [2009 (41) PTC 284 (Del)]
(v) Walter Bushnell Pvt. Ltd. & Ors. v. Miracle Life Sciences & Anr. [2014
(59) PTC 339 (Del.)].
41\. Scope of Section 29(4) of the Trade Marks Act, 1999 came up for
consideration before a learned Single Bench of Delhi High Court in the
decision in Radico Khaitan Limited v. Carlsberg India Private Limited [2011
(48) PTC 1 (Del)] and it is relevant to extract paragraph Nos.21 and 22 of the
said decision:
> “21. So far as infringement qua different goods is concerned, separate
> enactment of Section 29(4) makes it clear that the strict rigors are
> prescribed as against the ordinary case of similar goods wherein a
> registered proprietor has to establish that the registered trademark has
> reputation in India and is of such a nature wherein the use of the mark by
> the other side without due cause would tantamount to taking unfair advantage
> or detrimental to the distinctive character or repute of a
> http://www.judis.nic.in trademark.
53
22\. A reading of Section 29(4) of the Act would reveal that the said
protection qua different goods is earmarked by the Legislature for the
trademarks which are either highly reputed or well known or famous trademarks
and enjoy either high level of distinctiveness or the marks which are
inherently distinctive in nature or has become distinctive due to their
repute; the use of which will cause detrimental to the distinctive character
and repute of the trademark only when the ingredients of Section 29(4) are
satisfied conjunctively which is sub sections (a), (b) and (c) the
infringement qua Section 29(4) in relation to different goods is attracted.”
Therefore, burden lies heavy on the respondent/plaintiff to probablise and
substantiate that the use of the mark “TechNova” by the appellant is without
due cause and it would result in unfair advantage to them or detriment to the
distinctive character or reputation of their trademark. The plaintiff is also
under obligation to sustain that their trademark is highly reputed or well
known trademark and they enjoy either high level of distinctiveness or the
marks which are inherently distinctive in nature or has become distinctive due
to their repute.
42\. In the above cited decision viz. Radico Khaitan Limited case, the scope
of Section 29 of the Trade and Merchandise Marks Act, 1958 as well as Section
159(5) of the Trade Marks Act, 1999 also came up for consideration. The facts
of the case would disclose that an application was filed praying for permanent
injunction restraining the defendant, namely Carlsberg India Private Limited
from using the numeral '8' as a trademark for the purpose of marketing it's
products. It is to be noted at this juncture http://www.judis.nic.in  54 that
the plaintiff company therein is a manufacturer of alcoholic beverages, which
include liquor both Indian and Indian made foreign liquor, country liquor
etc., and the defendant is engaged in the manufacture of alcoholic beverages
including beer and other beverages. Sum and substance of the case of the
plaintiff, as observed in paragraph No.6 of the said judgment, is that use of
the numeral '8' by the defendant in relation to one of it's products which is
beer under the mark PALONE infringes and violates the statutory and common law
rights of the plaintiff in it's well known and registered mark '8' PM, numeral
8 being its essential, distinguishing and identifying feature. It is relevant
to extract the following portions of the said judgment:
> “50. A bare reading of the sub section 159(5) would reveal that the same is
> the non obstante clause and would therefore prevail over in addition to what
> has been stated under the Act. The new Act of 1999 although extends the
> registration under the existing law of 1958 to the New Act. However, the
> exception is carved out under sub section (5) which states that the
> particular user of the mark if it is not an infringement under the old Act
> then, the same shall also not to be an infringement under this Act.
> 51\. The combined reading of Section 29 of the old Act and saving clause of
> section 159 makes it amply clear that the user of the numeral 8 would not
> have been an infringement under the old act and injunction cannot be granted
> if it is established the said numeral does not indicate the connection in
> the course of the trade with the plaintiff. Thus, the said user cannot be
> extended to be an infringement under the new act by virtue of the saving
> clause of section 159 of the Act of 1999. ......
http://www.judis.nic.in 53. Therefore, I am of the prima facie view that the
registrations relied upon by the plaintiff do not establish the  55 prima
facie case of infringement under section 29 (1) and 29 (2) as I have already
expressed doubts about the nature of goods being either non similar or similar
which depends number tests discussed by me along with the facts to be proved
in trial. Thus, it is more of a mixed question of law and fact. At this stage,
suffice it to say that the registration of the plaintiff clearly do not cover
beer, the said registration are in Part B which are weak ones, the goods can
be conclusive said to be similar goods, therefore, the infringement under
section 29 (1) (2) and (3) cannot be established. So far as grounds under
section 29(4) is concerned, the other surrounding factors like extensive user
of the numeral 8 by the other parties, observations that 8 has a role in
liquor industry and other factors discussed above prevents the numeral 8 to be
categorized as reputed mark of the plaintiff and the user of the same is
protected under section 30 of the Act. Therefore, I am prime facie of the view
that no case is made out in view of statutory provision of Sections 28 and 29
in order to establish the case of infringement. The surrounding factors like
no infringement of Part B registration under the old act, 8 is not per se
registered in view of section 17 of the Act, registration of someone else in
relation to beers also act as special circumstances which militate against the
grant of injunction.” The issue relating to passing off has also been dealt
with in the above cited decision and in the case on hand, such a claim has
also been made by the respondent/plaintiff. It is also relevant to extract the
following portions of the said judgment:
> “63. Thus, in the present case, the contention that the Court is precluded
> from seeing the third parties use is also not correct as two sets of
> goods/products of the parties are not same. All the decisions referred to by
> the plaintiff are those cases wherein the goods of the parties are same. In
> the present case, the defendant has not only to show extensive third party
> user of numeral 8 in relation to whisky, the goods used by the plaintiff but
> also to show the prima facie evidence that some of http://www.judis.nic.in
> the third parties are prior in time than the plaintiff. The defendant has
> also to produce some original samples of third  56 parties user before the
> Court during the course of hearing. Thus, the third parties user in the
> present case has become relevant factor to decide the interim application.
> ....
> 68\. The goods more specifically beers and whisky are not identical and
> again they are either same description of the goods or allied or cognates or
> different. The judicial opinion in this respect is also not consistent as to
> whether the said goods are actually the goods of the same description. It is
> noteworthy that the alcoholic drinks like whisky wines, spirits are falling
> in class 32 and beers, water and other aerated drinks are falling in class
> 33.
69\. Although I am aware that the classification is not material for measuring
the likelihood of confusion and deception. But the same cannot be completely
overlooked in the present circumstances. The -alcoholic drinks? may be a very
wide classification wherein there may be goods including whisky, Rums,
spirits, wines, Jins of different price ranges. The same may also include the
drinks which are not purely alcoholic ones but are dilutions like beers which
contain the alcolohic content. If one may apply the test of identity of
composition, identity of consumers, price ranges, consuming public as tests,
the said goods seem to be goods of different description as composition wise
the beers and whisky are not the same, price wise, there is a great price
variation as beer may be cheaper and whisky may be expensive, consuming public
wise people are discerning as to whether they want beer or whisky.” In
paragraph No.70, the Delhi High Court has referred to Khoday Distilleries
Limited v. Scotch Whisky Association and Ors. [(2008) 10 SCC 723] and observed
that “Thus, unless the Plaintiff is exclusively registered for 8 per se, it
cannot be said to enjoy the proprietary rights over the part of the mark as
per Section 17 of the Act. Prima facie, it http://www.judis.nic.in appears
that the numeral 8 cannot be exclusively enjoyed by the  57 Plaintiff”.
Ultimately, the High Court of Delhi concluded that the defendant is not liable
to be refrained from using the numeral '8', as the plaintiff therein failed to
make out any prima facie case.
43\. The respondent/plaintiff, in order to sustain their case, had filed
Exs.P1 to P12 and examined PW1. In the considered opinion of the Court, none
of the documents would satisfy the requirements of Section 29(4) (a),
(b) and (c) of the Trade Marks Act, 1999.
44\. This Court, while answering Question Nos.1 an 2, had given findings that
the plaintiff cannot claim to be an innovator of the word “TechNova”and the
adoption of the said mark is unique to the plaintiff alone and also held that
Exs.D14 to D24 would amply sustain the defence of the appellant/defendant that
very many companies throughout the world are using the very same mark and
further pointed out that PW1, in his cross examination, has admitted that
litigations were instituted against some of the parties in India from using
the trademark “TechNova” and one party in Turkey, but he did not file proof in
that regard and that apart, no Balance Sheet or other document evidencing
sales volume as well as advertisement expenditure incurred by the plaintiff to
probablise their case that their http://www.judis.nic.in  58 trademark has got
reputation in India and the oral evidence of PW1 in that regard is also of no
help to the plaintiff.
45\. In Cable News Network LP, LLLP (CNN) v. Cam News Network Limited [2008
(36) PTC 255 (Del.)], the issue pertains to infringement and passing off the
trademark 'CNN International' and the defendant was in the business of
publication business and the Delhi High Court having found that CNN is a 24
hours Global News Television Network, recorded a finding that the plaintiff
was much prior in the market and analyzed the reputation in respect of the
goods and services and in the light of the said fact, has granted an order of
ad-interim injunction in favour of the plaintiff.
46\. In Bengal Waterproof Ltd. v. Bombay Waterproof Mnfg. Co. [1997 (17) PTC
98], the plaintiff sought to file a Suit for passing off in relation to sale
of products under the registered trademark “Duck Back” and whereas defendant
has adopted a deceptively similar mark “Dack Back” and taking into
consideration of the same, the Hon'ble Supreme Court has reversed the judgment
of the lower Court and decreed the Suit.
47\. In Express Bottlers Services Pvt. Ltd. v. Pepsi Inc. & Others [1989 (9)
PTC 14 (Cal)], the application filed for rectification of registered trade
mark “Pepsi Cola” was sought and was rejected. The learned counsel
http://www.judis.nic.in relied upon the said judgment for the proposition that
“if proprietary of the  59 mark is expected to pursue each and every
insignificant infringer to save his mark, the business will come to a
standstill..... The mere use of the name is irrelevant because a registered
proprietor is not expected to go on filing suits or proceedings against
infringers who are of no consequence”.
48\. In Dr.Reddy's Laboratories Ltd. v. Reddy Pharmaceuticals Limited [2004
(29) PTC 435 (Del.)], the plaintiff is marketings it's products under the
trademark “Dr.Reddy's” and the defendant, who was a trader in bulk drugs,
started using the mark “Reddy” and an order of restrain was granted for using
the trademark. The Delhi High Court observed in paragraph No.27 that the
pleadings and documents prima facie establish that the plaintiff has acquired
substantial trade reputation and goodwill and the use of trademark “Reddy” by
the defendant on its pharmaceuticals products is neither concurrent nor honest
user and the same has been adopted by the defendant with a view to mislead the
customers and the intention to practice deceit is writ large and citing the
said reasons, had granted an order of ad-interim injunction.
49\. In Walter Bushnell Pvt. Ltd. & Ors. v. Miracle Life Sciences &
http://www.judis.nic.in Anr. [2014 (59) PTC 339 (Del.)], the use of trademark
“DROTIN” was said  60 to have been infringed by the defendant by using in
relation to some other goods. The Delhi High Court having found that three
parties are actually using the similar trademark and in the light of the fact
that deceptively similar trademark is having same goods, has negatived the
case of the defendant and sustained the order of injunction granted in favour
of the plaintiff.
50\. In Toyota Jidosha Kabushiki Kaisha v. Prius Auto Industries Ltd., and
Others [2018 (5) CTC 784], the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India observed as
under:
> “21. At the very outset, certain principles that govern the law of passing
> off may be usefully noticed. Such principles, in fact, have been considered
> by this Court in its decision in S. Syed Mohideen v. P.Sulochana Bai [2016
> (2) SCC 683], though in a somewhat different context, i.e., the right of a
> registered owner of a particular mark to bring an action for passing off
> against another registered owner of an identical or largely similar trade
> mark. In S. Syed Mohideen (supra), this Court on a collective reading of the
> provisions of the Act held “that the action for passing off which is
> premised on the rights of prior user generating a goodwill shall be
> unaffected by any registration provided under the Act,” which proposition
> actually stood approved in an earlier decision of this Court in N.R. Dongre
> v. Whirlpool Corporation [1996 (5) SCC 714]. The trinity test laid down in
> Reckitt and Colman Ltd. (supra) was reiterated by this Court in S. Syed
> Mohideen (supra) by holding that to prove and establish an action of passing
> off, three ingredients are required to be proved by the plaintiff, i.e., his
> goodwill, misrepresentation and damages.
http://www.judis.nic.in ....
31\. Whether the second principle evolved under the trinity test, i.e., triple
identity test laid down in Reckitt and  61 Colman Ltd. [1990 (I) All E.R.873]
would stand established on the test of likelihood of confusion or real/actual
confusion is another question that seems to have arisen in the present case as
the Division Bench of the High Court has taken the view that the first test,
i.e., likelihood of confusion is required to be satisfied only in quia timet
actions and actual confusion will have to be proved when the suit or claim is
being adjudicated finally as by then a considerable period of time following
the initiation of the action of passing off might have elapsed. Once the
claimant who has brought the action of passing off establishes his goodwill in
the jurisdiction in which he claims that the defendants are trying to pass off
their goods under the brand name of the claimant’s goods, the burden of
establishing actual confusion as distinguished from possibility thereof ought
not to be fastened on the claimant. The possibility or likelihood of confusion
is capable of being demonstrated with reference to the particulars of the mark
or marks, as may be, and the circumstances surrounding the manner of
sale/marketing of the goods by the defendants and such other relevant facts.
Proof of actual confusion, on the other hand, would require the claimant to
bring before the Court evidence which may not be easily forthcoming and
directly available to the claimant. In a given situation, there may be no
complaints made to the claimant that goods marketed by the defendants under
the impugned mark had been inadvertently purchased as that of the
plaintiff/claimant. The onus of bringing such proof, as an invariable
requirement, would be to cast on the claimant an onerous burden which may not
be justified. Commercial and business morality which is the foundation of the
law of passing off should not be allowed to be defeated by imposing such a
requirement. In such a situation, likelihood of confusion would be a surer and
better test of proving an action of passing off by the defendants. Such a test
would also be consistent with commercial and business morality which the law
of passing off seeks to achieve. In the last resort, therefore, it is
preponderance of probabilities that must be left to judge the claim.”
51\. As already pointed out, though the plaintiff in the pleadings would claim
that it is offering full range of products to the customers and
http://www.judis.nic.in it's trademark/house mark is globally recognized by
the trade and industry  62 as well known, has miserably failed to probablise
their case by adducing oral and documentary evidence. Admittedly, the products
manufactured by the plaintiff and the defendant are altogether different and
the plaintiff may be entitled to relief only if they are able to bring the
case within the ambit of Section 29(4) of the Trade Marks Act, 1999 and once
again they have failed to establish the requirement of Section 29(4)(c). It is
also to be noted at this juncture that it is not (a) or (b) or (c) of Section
29(4) and it is Section 29(4)(a), (b) and (c) in total/combined together.
52\. A perusal of Ex.D8 would disclose that the Bangalore Telephonic Directory
contains the name of the plaintiff, namely, Technova Imaging Systems Ltd.,
Technova Tapes India Limited (defendant company) and it also reads that apart
from the same, two other companies having the name Technova viz., Technova
Enterprises and Technova Plate Making Systems Pvt. Ltd., and the said
Telephone Directory is of the year 1995.
53\. Section 29(1) of the Trade and Merchandise Marks Act, 1958 reads as
follows:
> “29. Infringement of Trade Marks – (1) A registered trade mark is infringed
> by a person who, not being the registered proprietor of the trade mark or a
> registered user http://www.judis.nic.in thereof using by way of permitted
> use, uses in the course of a trade mark which is identical with, or
> deceptively similar to, the trade mark, in relation to any goods in respect
> of which the  63 trade mark is registered and in such manner as render the
> use of the mark likely to be taken as being used as a trade mark.” The said
> provision deals with user of the mark which is identical with or deceptively
> similar to the trade mark, in relation to any goods in respect of which the
> trade mark is registered.
54\. No doubt, the plaintiff is having the benefit of the registration of the
trademark and the goods manufactured and marketed by the defendant is not in
respect of which the trademark is registered and if it is so, Section 159(5)
of the Trade Marks Act, 1999 would come to the aid of the defendant for the
reason that the products manufactured by the defendant is not in respect of
the goods for which the plaintiff has obtained the registration of the
trademark and if it is so, the continued use of the trademark “TechNova” by
the defendant cannot be considered as infringement under the Trade Marks Act,
1999. The plaintiff has also miserably failed to establish that the defendant
is using the trademark with dishonest intention and the same has been done
only with a view to exploit the goodwill of the plaintiff and that apart,
Ex.D8 would disclose that the defendant, by changing its name from “Reflex
Auto Products Pvt. Ltd.,” to “TechNova Tapes (India) Pvt. Ltd.” and came to be
incorporated in the year 1995 and manufacturing it's products and only in the
year 2004, the plaintiff http://www.judis.nic.in came forward to file the
present Suit.
64
55\. The learned Judge, in paragraph No.37 of the judgment, has recorded a
finding that the defendant has no satisfactory explanation as to how they came
to adopt the trade marks, which are registered in the name of the plaintiff,
which have a worldwide market. As pointed out above, the plaintiff has failed
to establish that it had a worldwide market and the oral evidence let in by
them did not help/advance their case and the plaintiff did not take any action
for nearly 9 years i.e., from the year 1995 and as such, he has acquiesced the
conduct of the defendant.
56\. It is once again to be pointed out at this juncture that neither the oral
evidence nor the documentary evidence help/advance the case of the plaintiff
and the plaintiff has failed to probablise their case. The plaintiff, except
the self serving statement, did not adduce any quality or sufficient evidence
to sustain their claim. Therefore, the appellant/defendant is entitled to
succeed in this appeal and Question No.4 is answered accordingly.
57\. In the result, this Original Side Appeal is allowed and the judgment and
decree dated 15.12.2016 made in C.S.No.860 of 2004 is set aside and
consequently, the Suit in C.S.No.860 of 2004 is dismissed.
http://www.judis.nic.in However, there shall be no order as to costs.
Consequently, connected  65 miscellaneous petition is closed.
[M.S.N., J.] [N.S.S., J.] 13.03.2019 Internet : Yes Index : No jvm
http://www.judis.nic.in  66 M.SATHYANARAYANAN, J., and N.SESHASAYEE, J.
jvm Judgment in O.S.A.No.59 of 2017 13.03.2019 http://www.judis.nic.in
to adopt the trade marks, which are registered in the name of the plaintiff,
which have a worldwide market. As pointed out above, the plaintiff has failed
to establish that it had a worldwide market and the oral evidence let in by
them did not help/advance their case and the plaintiff did not take any action
for nearly 9 years i.e., from the year 1995 and as such, he has acquiesced the
conduct of the defendant.
56\. It is once again to be pointed out at this juncture that neither the oral
evidence nor the documentary evidence help/advance the case of the plaintiff
and the plaintiff has failed to probablise their case. The plaintiff, except
the self serving statement, did not adduce any quality or sufficient evidence
to sustain their claim. Therefore, the appellant/defendant is entitled to
succeed in this appeal and Question No.4 is answered accordingly.
57\. In the result, this Original Side Appeal is allowed and the judgment and
decree dated 15.12.2016 made in C.S.No.860 of 2004 is set aside and
consequently, the Suit in C.S.No.860 of 2004 is dismissed.
http://www.judis.nic.in However, there shall be no order as to costs.
                          182, TTK Road,
                          Alwarpet, Chennai-600 018,
                          represented by its Commercial Manager,
                          Mr.D.Christy.                                     ..       Respondents
                          Prayer: Original Side Appeal filed under Order XXXVI Rule 1 of Original
                          Side Rules read with Clause 15 of the Letters Patent against the order dated
                          15.12.2016 made in C.S.No.860 of 2004.
                                For Appellant            : Mr.P.S.Raman, Senior Counsel
                                                              assisted by M/s.Gladys Daniel
                                For Respondents          : Mr.S.P.Chockalingam
    http://www.judis.nic.in                                    for Dr.Mohan Dewan
                                                                    2
                                                           JUDGMENT
M.SATHYANARAYANAN, J.
The defendant in C.S.No.860 of 2004 is the appellant. The respondent/plaintiff
filed the said Suit for the following relief:
> (a) A Permanent Injunction restraining the Defendant, its servants, agents,
> distributors, stockists, dealers and anybody associated with the defendant
> from marketing its products under the name “TECHNOVA” (or any alternative
> spelling or variant thereof).
to adopt the trade marks, which are registered in the name of the plaintiff,
which have a worldwide market. As pointed out above, the plaintiff has failed
to establish that it had a worldwide market and the oral evidence let in by
them did not help/advance their case and the plaintiff did not take any action
for nearly 9 years i.e., from the year 1995 and as such, he has acquiesced the
conduct of the defendant.
56\. It is once again to be pointed out at this juncture that neither the oral
evidence nor the documentary evidence help/advance the case of the plaintiff
and the plaintiff has failed to probablise their case. The plaintiff, except
the self serving statement, did not adduce any quality or sufficient evidence
to sustain their claim. Therefore, the appellant/defendant is entitled to
succeed in this appeal and Question No.4 is answered accordingly.
57\. In the result, this Original Side Appeal is allowed and the judgment and
decree dated 15.12.2016 made in C.S.No.860 of 2004 is set aside and
consequently, the Suit in C.S.No.860 of 2004 is dismissed.
http://www.judis.nic.in However, there shall be no order as to costs.
                          182, TTK Road,
                          Alwarpet, Chennai-600 018,
                          represented by its Commercial Manager,
                          Mr.D.Christy.                                     ..       Respondents
                          Prayer: Original Side Appeal filed under Order XXXVI Rule 1 of Original
                          Side Rules read with Clause 15 of the Letters Patent against the order dated
                          15.12.2016 made in C.S.No.860 of 2004.
                                For Appellant            : Mr.P.S.Raman, Senior Counsel
                                                              assisted by M/s.Gladys Daniel
                                For Respondents          : Mr.S.P.Chockalingam
    http://www.judis.nic.in                                    for Dr.Mohan Dewan
                                                                    2
                                                           JUDGMENT
M.SATHYANARAYANAN, J.
The defendant in C.S.No.860 of 2004 is the appellant. The respondent/plaintiff
filed the said Suit for the following relief:
> (a) A Permanent Injunction restraining the Defendant, its servants, agents,
> distributors, stockists, dealers and anybody associated with the defendant
> from marketing its products under the name “TECHNOVA” (or any alternative
> spelling or variant thereof).
to adopt the trade marks, which are registered in the name of the plaintiff,
which have a worldwide market. As pointed out above, the plaintiff has failed
to establish that it had a worldwide market and the oral evidence let in by
them did not help/advance their case and the plaintiff did not take any action
for nearly 9 years i.e., from the year 1995 and as such, he has acquiesced the
conduct of the defendant.
56\. It is once again to be pointed out at this juncture that neither the oral
evidence nor the documentary evidence help/advance the case of the plaintiff
and the plaintiff has failed to probablise their case. The plaintiff, except
the self serving statement, did not adduce any quality or sufficient evidence
to sustain their claim. Therefore, the appellant/defendant is entitled to
succeed in this appeal and Question No.4 is answered accordingly.
57\. In the result, this Original Side Appeal is allowed and the judgment and
decree dated 15.12.2016 made in C.S.No.860 of 2004 is set aside and
consequently, the Suit in C.S.No.860 of 2004 is dismissed.
http://www.judis.nic.in However, there shall be no order as to costs.
                          182, TTK Road,
                          Alwarpet, Chennai-600 018,
                          represented by its Commercial Manager,
                          Mr.D.Christy.                                     ..       Respondents
                          Prayer: Original Side Appeal filed under Order XXXVI Rule 1 of Original
                          Side Rules read with Clause 15 of the Letters Patent against the order dated
                          15.12.2016 made in C.S.No.860 of 2004.
                                For Appellant            : Mr.P.S.Raman, Senior Counsel
                                                              assisted by M/s.Gladys Daniel
                                For Respondents          : Mr.S.P.Chockalingam
    http://www.judis.nic.in                                    for Dr.Mohan Dewan
                                                                    2
                                                           JUDGMENT
M.SATHYANARAYANAN, J.
The defendant in C.S.No.860 of 2004 is the appellant. The respondent/plaintiff
filed the said Suit for the following relief:
> (a) A Permanent Injunction restraining the Defendant, its servants, agents,
> distributors, stockists, dealers and anybody associated with the defendant
> from marketing its products under the name “TECHNOVA” (or any alternative
> spelling or variant thereof).
> (b) A Permanent Injunction restraining the Defendant, its servants, agents,
> distributors, stockists, dealers and anybody associated with the Defendant
> from using “Technova” (or any alternate spelling or variant thereof) as its
> corporate name.
> (c) To surrender to the Plaintiff for destruction of finished goods,
> cartons, packing materials, visual aids, catalogues, pricelists, literatures
> and advertisement bearing or containing the mark “Technova” manufactured and
> printed by the Defendant.
(d) Costs of the Suit; and
(e) Pass such further or other relief's as this Hon'ble Court may deem fit and
proper in the circumstances of the case and render justice.” The Suit, after
to adopt the trade marks, which are registered in the name of the plaintiff,
which have a worldwide market. As pointed out above, the plaintiff has failed
to establish that it had a worldwide market and the oral evidence let in by
them did not help/advance their case and the plaintiff did not take any action
for nearly 9 years i.e., from the year 1995 and as such, he has acquiesced the
conduct of the defendant.
56\. It is once again to be pointed out at this juncture that neither the oral
evidence nor the documentary evidence help/advance the case of the plaintiff
and the plaintiff has failed to probablise their case. The plaintiff, except
the self serving statement, did not adduce any quality or sufficient evidence
to sustain their claim. Therefore, the appellant/defendant is entitled to
succeed in this appeal and Question No.4 is answered accordingly.
57\. In the result, this Original Side Appeal is allowed and the judgment and
decree dated 15.12.2016 made in C.S.No.860 of 2004 is set aside and
consequently, the Suit in C.S.No.860 of 2004 is dismissed.
http://www.judis.nic.in However, there shall be no order as to costs.
                          182, TTK Road,
                          Alwarpet, Chennai-600 018,
                          represented by its Commercial Manager,
                          Mr.D.Christy.                                     ..       Respondents
                          Prayer: Original Side Appeal filed under Order XXXVI Rule 1 of Original
                          Side Rules read with Clause 15 of the Letters Patent against the order dated
                          15.12.2016 made in C.S.No.860 of 2004.
                                For Appellant            : Mr.P.S.Raman, Senior Counsel
                                                              assisted by M/s.Gladys Daniel
                                For Respondents          : Mr.S.P.Chockalingam
    http://www.judis.nic.in                                    for Dr.Mohan Dewan
                                                                    2
                                                           JUDGMENT
M.SATHYANARAYANAN, J.
The defendant in C.S.No.860 of 2004 is the appellant. The respondent/plaintiff
filed the said Suit for the following relief:
> (a) A Permanent Injunction restraining the Defendant, its servants, agents,
> distributors, stockists, dealers and anybody associated with the defendant
> from marketing its products under the name “TECHNOVA” (or any alternative
> spelling or variant thereof).
> (b) A Permanent Injunction restraining the Defendant, its servants, agents,
> distributors, stockists, dealers and anybody associated with the Defendant
> from using “Technova” (or any alternate spelling or variant thereof) as its
> corporate name.
> (c) To surrender to the Plaintiff for destruction of finished goods,
> cartons, packing materials, visual aids, catalogues, pricelists, literatures
> and advertisement bearing or containing the mark “Technova” manufactured and
> printed by the Defendant.
(d) Costs of the Suit; and
(e) Pass such further or other relief's as this Hon'ble Court may deem fit and
proper in the circumstances of the case and render justice.” The Suit, after
to adopt the trade marks, which are registered in the name of the plaintiff,
which have a worldwide market. As pointed out above, the plaintiff has failed
to establish that it had a worldwide market and the oral evidence let in by
them did not help/advance their case and the plaintiff did not take any action
for nearly 9 years i.e., from the year 1995 and as such, he has acquiesced the
conduct of the defendant.
56\. It is once again to be pointed out at this juncture that neither the oral
evidence nor the documentary evidence help/advance the case of the plaintiff
and the plaintiff has failed to probablise their case. The plaintiff, except
the self serving statement, did not adduce any quality or sufficient evidence
to sustain their claim. Therefore, the appellant/defendant is entitled to
succeed in this appeal and Question No.4 is answered accordingly.
57\. In the result, this Original Side Appeal is allowed and the judgment and
decree dated 15.12.2016 made in C.S.No.860 of 2004 is set aside and
consequently, the Suit in C.S.No.860 of 2004 is dismissed.
http://www.judis.nic.in However, there shall be no order as to costs.
