Central Administrative Tribunal - Lucknow
Capt Promod Kumar vs Union Of India on 6 March, 2019
Bench: Devendra Chaudhry, Jasmine Ahmed
               CENTRAL ADMINISTRATIVE TRIBUNAL
                  LUCKNOW BENCH, LUCKNOW
    Original Application 332/00279/2018
    Order Reserved on : 30.01.2019
    Order Pronounced on : 06th   March, 2019
    Hon'ble Ms. Jasmine Ahmed, Member (J)
    Hon'ble Mr. Devendra Chaudhry, Member(A)
    Capt. Pramod Kumar Bajaj, S/o Late Shri P. D. Bajaj aged about
    57 years, R/o , 222, M. G. Road, Lucknow
                                                      ....Applicant
    By Advocate: Applicant in person
                            Versus
    Union of India, through the Chairman CBDT, Department of
    Revenue, Government of India, North Block, New Delhi-1
                                              .....Respondent
    By Advocate: Sri Shatrohan Lal and Ms. Mona Singh, ADG,
    Vigilance, Headquarters-II, New Delhi.
evidence and hence they cannot stand on merits whatsoever.
40 In sum, therefore, we find it difficult to uphold the contention of the
respondents that the vigilance status of the applicant has been assessed to be
worthy of being such that it needs to be withheld w.r.t recommendation for
appointment as Member ITAT. Therefore, the relief(s) sought by the applicant
seems justifiable and the initiation and all consequential proceedings of the
respondents' to include the name of the applicant in the agreed list and
thereby not granting vigilance clearance for appointment as ITAT Member is
liable to be quashed. Accordingly, O.A. No. 137 of 2018 and 279 of 2018 both
are allowed and inclusion of the name of the applicant in A.L. and all
consequential proceedings as well as denial of Vigilance Clearance are
quashed. The respondents are directed to forward the name of the applicant to
the appropriate competent authority in view of Hon'ble High Court's order
dated 30.5.2017 passed in Writ petition No. 8648 (SB) of 2017 as affirmed by
the Hon'ble Supreme Court in its order dated 15.11.2017 within a period of two
weeks from the date of receipt of certified copy of this order. There shall be
    Vigilance, Headquarters-II, New Delhi.
                           Alongwith
    Original Application No. 332/00137/2018
    (Reserved on 6.2.2019)
    Capt. Pramod Kumar Bajaj, S/o Late Shri P. D. Bajaj aged about
    57 years, R/o , 222, M. G. Road, Lucknow
                                                      ....Applicant
    By Advocate: Applicant in person
                                       Versus
    1.   Union of India, through the Chairman CBDT, Department of
         Revenue, Government of India, North       Block,     New
         Delhi-1.
    2.   Union of India through the Secretary, Department of Legal
         Affairs, Government of India, Shastri Bhawan, New
                Delhi-1
                                                    .....Respondents
    By Advocate: Sri Shatrohan Lal
                               ORDER
Per Ms. Jasmine Ahmed, Member (J) The O.A. No. 279 of 2018 was heard on
30.1.2019 while the O.A. No. 137 of 2018 was reserved on 6.2.2019. The
applicant,  2 who was present in person, states that O.A. No. 137 of 2018 may
also be clubbed with O.A. No. 279 of 2018 to which no objection has been
raised by the respondents' counsel. According with the consent of the parties,
a common order is being passed.
2\. The applicant has filed O.A. no. 137 of 2018 seeking relief to quash the
denial of Vigilance Clearance (In short V.C.) dated 20.4.2018 and later the
applicant filed O.A. No. 279 of 2018 praying for quashing of intimation of
proposal and all consequential actions and to include his name in the agreed
list.
3\. The case of the Applicant as argued, in brief, is that the applicant, an
Ex-Army Officer, having come victorious in the Civil Services Examination in
1989 and allocated to the 1990 batch of the Indian Revenue Services and with
the benefit of earlier military services could rise to the level of
Commissioner of Income Tax in early 2012. His career graph includes his
empanelment as Joint Secretary to the Government of India in 2016. He had, in
2013 applied for the post of Member, ITAT and was stated to have been placed
on the top of the list of 48 selected candidates. On his representation, he
was recommended for appointment to the ACC on 15.7.2015 based on vigilance
clearance given to him in August, 2013 and again in April, 2015. Still his
appointment could not be fructified, although candidates selected but placed
in the order of merit below the applicant were appointed.
4\. Aggrieved, the applicant submitted a representation to the Ministry of
Law, Government of India but failed to get any response and hence approached
this Tribunal vide O.A. No. 95/2016 wherein, the Hon'ble Tribunal vide its
order dated 10.02.2017 directed the Respondents to resubmit the alleged
adverse IB Report before the Selection Board for selection of the ITAT Member
within one month from the date of receipt of the order for taking a view with
request to appointment of applicant as ITAT Member. However, meanwhile, the
then CCIT (Exemptions) being peeved with applicant's filing of above O.A. 95
of 2016 transferred the applicant arbitrarily against which, applicant filed
another O.A. No. 373/2016 before this Tribunal and the  3 Tribunal which vide
order dated 16.08.2016/18.08.2016 granted interim stay against the transfer
order. The respondents' thereupon filed a Writ No 13546/2018 against the stay
of transfer granted by the Hon Tribunal. However, the writ was dismissed by
the Hon High Court vide order 14.05.2018.
5\. Meanwhile, taking offence on account of the successful stay granted on the
transfer order by the Hon Tribunal, the then CCIT (Exemptions) being husband
of present DGIT (Vigilance) (since also retired) curtailed the powers of the
applicant vide order dated 23.08.2016 with a view to frustrate the effect of
the stay order of this Hon'ble Tribunal. However, soon after retirement of the
then CCIT (Exemptions), this curtailment was withdrawn by the successor CCIT
(Exemptions) vide order dated 27.12.2016.
6\. Meanwhile, the respondents challenged the Hon'ble Tribunal's order dated
10.02.2017 through a Writ Petition No.8648/2017 in the Hon'ble High Court,
Lucknow Bench. The Writ Petition was dismissed vide order dated 30.05.2017
with directions to the Respondents to get the entire process of
reconsideration by the Selection Board (hereinafter referred to as SB) within
three months and four weeks thereafter for appropriate action on the
recommendations of the SB. The Respondents challenged this order of the
Hon'ble High Court in a SLP No 22596/2017 in the Supreme Court but, the SLP
was dismissed by the Hon'ble Apex Court vide order dated 15.11.2017 directing
reconsideration by the Selection Board as ordered by the Hon'ble High Court's
order of 30.05.2017. The applicant has further submitted that since, the
Respondents were biased against the applicant from beginning and with the
dismissal of the SLP in the Hon'ble Apex Court they could not find any way to
prevent the appointment of the applicant as ITAT Member any further, so, an
arbitrary inspection of the applicant's office was directed by the DGIT
(Vigilance) Ms. Abha Kishore being wife of the now retired CCIT (Exemptions).
The personal animosity against the applicant was continued now by the wife as
had been done by the husband earlier. That this nexus is further laid bare
because the aforesaid inspection was ordered on the basis of a letter dated
15.03.2016 written by her husband, the then CCIT (Exemptions) and that too  4
(the inspection) after more than one year of issue of the letter.
Notwithstanding this biased action, the inspection by the two officials on
29.11.2017 and 30.11.2017 could find only some clerical errors of subordinates
of the applicant. However in spite of the insignificant findings in the
Inspection, a memo dated 30.01.2018 was issued against the Applicant.
7\. Applicant has further submitted that he was apprehensive of action being
taken against the applicant w.r.t the arbitrary inspection aforesaid and the
memo dated 30.01.2018 issued thereupon. Therefore he filed a Dy. No. 365/2018
(OA No 77/2018) wherein this Hon Tribunal vide order dated 2nd February 2018,
directed the respondents to not to finalize the proceedings initiated on the
basis of the inspections dated 29/30.11.2017 and further that such proceedings
will not create any hurdle in the way of promotion, appointment and deputation
prospect of the applicant. That consequently, based on this order and the
earlier order of dismissal of SLP of the Respondents by the Hon'ble Apex
Court, the Ministry of Law and Justice, Government of India (GoI) issued a
letter dated 22.02.2018, directing the Deputy Director, Income Tax (HRD),
CBDT, New Delhi to send a fresh vigilance clearance in respect of the
Applicant by 27.02.2018 in reference to the CBDT letter of 06.12.2013.
However, the Applicant submits that the recommendation was deliberately
withheld for no rhyme and reason except to delay the matter and wait for
opportune time to harm the applicant. It is with this malicious view that the
file concerning VIGILANCE CLEARANCE was sent on 19.03.2018 to the Higher
Authority (Member-A) by the DGIT V without any specific recommendation in
compliance of the Ministry of Law and Justice order of 22.02.2018 whereupon
the Member-A returned it back to DGIT (V) on 22.03.2018 seeking clear
recommendation on VIGILANCE CLEARANCE for sending to the Ministry of Law and
Justice. Since the DGIT (V) was inter-alia also influenced by other probable
candidates apart from having animosity against the applicant personally for
reasons best known to the DGIT (V), the VIGILANCE CLEARANCE was kept pending.
8\. Applicant submits that, as time was passing by and the response to the
letter of Ministry of Law and justice had to be  5 sent, hence, the Principal
DGIT (V) finally did record the Vigilance Clearance of the Applicant on
11.04.2018, that is, not before a delay of more than two months after the
02.02.2018 order of the Hon Tribunal in the OA No 77/2018 (Dy No 365/2018) and
the time limit set requirement of the Ministry of Law for sending the
VIGILANCE CLEARANCE by 27.02.2018. In the VIGILANCE CLEARANCE Report dated
11.04.2018 the officer was not placed on the Agreed List (AL) of officers of
doubtful integrity. This report was also sent to the Deputy Director HRD in
the Income Tax Department/Competent Authority. However, the Respondents DGIT
(V) sought a meeting with the CBI representative to consider name of the
applicant in the AL and a meeting was held on 19.04.2018, just 8 days after
11.04.2018, when, the favourable report by the same officer was reversed by
placing the name of the applicant on the Agreed List in a most arbitrary and
vengeful manner and communicated vide letter dated 20.04.2018 from DGIT (V) to
the HRD/Competent Authority. The Applicant submits that the name of the
Applicant was deliberately placed by the DGIT (V) as proposed from the side of
the IT Department and not on the instance of the CBI itself. That, aggrieved
against further continuing delay and no action on part of the respondents on
the recommendation of the Selection Board headed by Judge of Hon'ble Supreme
Court which again reiterated the applicant's name for ITAT member, in its
selection meeting of 26.04.2018 as also reversal of vigilance clearance within
a period of 09 days by the DGIT (V), the Applicant filed an OA No. 137 of 2018
wherein the Hon'ble Tribunal vide order dated 04.05.2018 ordered that as four
weeks was given by the Hon High Court in its order dated 30.05.2017 to take
appropriate action on the recommendations of the Selection Board dated
26.04.2018, therefore the respondents are directed to ensure strict compliance
of the order of the Hon'ble High Court in letter and spirit by taking
appropriate action on the recommendation of the Selection Committee within the
stipulated time period based on vigilance clearance issued in 2015 and on
11.04.2018 ignoring the subsequent denial, if any. It was also directed the
Respondents shall produce the relevant records on the next date fixed
(09.07.2018). That, since the orders of Hon'ble High Court in writ petition No
8648/2017 dated 30.05.2017 were  6 not complied with inspite of the writ
itself being filed by the respondents. Since interim relief was not granted in
O.A. No. 77 of 2018 for staying the proceedings, the applicant was forced to
file a Writ Petition No (S/B) 13390/2018 on his own seeking compliance of
order of the Hon'ble High Court whereupon the Hon'ble High Court vide orders
dated 15.05.2018, 30.11.2018 and 04.01.2019 not only confirmed the orders of
this Tribunal dated 02.02.2018 and 04.05.2018 but also passed serious
strictures against the arbitrary actions of the DGIT(V).
9\. It is further submitted that even though not stated in the adverse V.C.
report of 20.04.2018 but nevertheless asserted in the Counter Reply and argued
by Ld. Respondent Counsel, the reason for withholding V.C. whether concerning
his alleged deficiencies w.r.t. frivolous inspections or misplaced assessment
of doubtful integrity w.r.t. Learned ITAT Bench Lucknow quashing judicial
orders pronounced by him as Commissioner (Exemption), each one of these
complaints are more than two years old and they cannot be justifiable reason
for withholding VIGILANCE CLEARANCE. This is because any such compliant cannot
be kept pending in light of strict guidance vide instructions dated
13.03.1991(Annexure-R-2) and hence the entire exercise of withholding his
vigilance clearance is malafide as well as vitiated by the DGIT(V) for unknown
and biased reasons. Therefore, the withholding of VIGILANCE CLEARANCE on
account of more than two years pending references is unjustifiable and so the
Respondents must be directed to issue Vigilance Clearance. Further in the
Vigilance Clearance report of 11.04.2018, these complaints were mentioned and
yet the applicant was not placed in AL but most maliciously thereafter in the
20.04.2018 report the Vigilance Clearance is withheld and this time without
mentioning any specific compliant which by itself (i.e. the non mention of any
detail of compliant) is violation of 13.03.1991 guideline mentioned above.
10\. The Applicant has got 28 years in IRS and 07 years in Indian Army
unblemished APARs and his integrity has never been withheld. Therefore to do
so now even when the complaints have  7 never been investigated or applicant
given adequate opportunity to defend himself is clear proof of DGIT
(V)/Respondents' biased malafide action and hence also the denial of Vigilance
Clearance is unjustified.
11\. Therefore, in light of all the above facts and continued malice as well
as malafide for unknown reasons, the applicant has argued for quashing of the
initiation and all consequential proceedings of the respondents w.r.t
inclusion of applicant's name in the Agreed List and to thereby enable the
applicant to be appointed as Member ITAT on the basis of latest
recommendations of the Selection Board dated 26.04.2018 and earlier Vigilance
Clearance of 11.04.2018 and strike down the 20.04.2018 biased report.
12\. Per contra, the Respondents have in their counter reply submitted that
the vigilance clearance of any officer is granted as per extant rules and
regulations governed by the Department of Personnel and Training (DoPT) of the
Government of India (GOI). That there is nothing in the rules which would
restrict this authority of the respondents and hence the claim of the
applicant that the vigilance clearance (VIGILANCE CLEARANCE) status has been
changed between 11.04.2018 and 20.04.2018 cannot be upheld. The Vigilance
Clearance status has been changed on the basis of the inputs available w.r.t
complaints against the applicant with the department and the department is
therefore fully justified in changing the Vigilance Clearance status from Not
in the Agreed List (AL) to Yes in the AL of officers of doubtful integrity. It
is further submitted that in the first instance, when, the Appointment
Committee of the Cabinet (ACC) had not approved the appointment of the
Applicant in view of IB inputs, the case of the Applicant was put up again
before the ACC on the representation of the Applicant dated 01.05.2015 wherein
the ACC reiterated its earlier stand of non approval.
Further, as per OM of DoPT dated 14.12.2007 as amended vide dated 21.06.2013,
officers whose names figure in the AL are to be denied Vigilance Clearance.
Respondents have further submitted that the AL is drawn once a year in a joint
meeting  8 between the Joint Director (Policy) of CBI and the Principal DGIT
(V) of the Income Tax Department and so it is wrongly alleged by the
applicant, that the Pr. DGIT (V) has included the name of the Applicant in the
AL unilaterally. Finally emphasis is made on the fact that the Vigilance
Clearance issued on any date reflected the vigilance status as on that date
and that the issue of Vigilance Clearance in the past does not imply that an
officer gets a right to be granted Vigilance Clearance for all times to come.
Therefore, there is no injustice in revising the status of Vigilance Clearance
of the applicant between the specified dates. That for the above reasons
therefore the Vigilance Clearance has been denied in a lawful unbiased manner.
13\. The respondents have further submitted that it is also wrong by the
Applicant to allege that there is any malafide in conducting the inspection of
the offices of the applicant as the said inspections have been carried out by
the DGIT (V) on 29.11.2017/30.11.2017, because, these inspections were done as
per instructions in the Vigilance Manual. That as per Para 2.15.1
(i) of the Vigilance Manual 2017, the Vigilance Manual has prescribed that the
CVO should conduct regular and surprise inspection in the sensitive area in
order to detect if there have been instance of corrupt or improper practices
by the public servant. That certain irregularities were found in the said
inspections and these inputs inter-alia formed the basis for inclusion of the
name of the applicant in the AL. That, as regards the applicant's assertion
that inspections dated of 29.11.2017 and 30.11.2017 have been taken into
account for assessment of the officer in the year 2018, that is after a delay
of several months is not acceptable as the para 12.1 of the Manual of Office
Procedure does not limit the period to one month w.r.t. completion of action
regarding any complaint against an officer. It is further submitted by the
Respondents that the time limit of one month prescribed in the Circular no. F.
No. A38012/4/91-V&L of Central Board of Direct Taxes, Department of Revenue,
Ministry of Finance, Government of India dated 13.03.1991 is only for a
decision as to whether the complaint involves vigilance angle and for a
decision as to whether a complaint is to be entrusted to the CBI for  9
investigation. There is no time limit as a whole for the entire consideration
of any matter and hence the argument of the applicant that the Respondents
have taken up the complaint for consideration against the Officer after a
large lapse of time is baseless. Further, there were adverse observations
against the Applicant by the Hon'ble ITAT, Lucknow Bench w.r.t non application
of mind by the applicant in the passing of orders relating to two matters of
exemptions to certain private parties namely Fateh Chand Charitable Trust and
Sri Ganesh Sewa Samitee of Bahraich, UP. These inputs were also taken into
consideration for putting the name of the applicant in the AL.
14\. As regards the issue of arbitrary transfer of the Applicant, the charge
is vehemently denied and it is submitted that the transfer and posting of
officers of the level of the Applicant are decided by a Transfer Placement
Committee in the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) chaired by the Chairman,
CBDT with Member (Admin), etc. as Member of the committee who are two rank
senior than the CCIT (Exemptions), against whom Applicant has raised malafide
intention of transfer. As result, it is not correct of the Applicant to blame
the CCIT (Exemptions) for his transfer.
15\. It is further submitted that the performance appraisal of an officer and
grant of Vigilance Clearance to him are different processes and serve
different purposes hence they have been prescribed distinctly and differently
and it would be wrong to infer that, if the APAR were considered as
unblemished they also include the certification of the officer from the
Vigilance Angle. More-so, the Principal DGIT (V) has recused from taking a
decision in the matter of the Applicant in view of personal allegation by him
against her and so the vigilance status has been recorded in an unbiased
manner and sent to the office of DGIT (HRD) in compliance of the order dated
02.02.2018 of the Hon'ble CAT, Lucknow Bench. It is also alleged that the
Applicant has enclosed copies of certain secret government communication
communicated between the office of Pr. DGIT (V) and DGIT (HRD) which is a
matter of serious official misdemeanor.
10
Therefore in light of all the above submissions, the relief sought by the
Applicant is unjustifiable and OA is liable to be dismissed.
16\. We have heard the Applicant in person and Learned Counsel for the
Respondents at length and perused the material on record carefully.
17\. Let us take up the first claim of the Respondents that the Vigilance
Clearance (VIGILANCE CLEARANCE) status can be changed at any time. Towards
this claim, the respondents have argued that grant of Vigilance Clearance is
governed by Office Memorandum (OM) issued by Department of Personnel and
Training (DoPT) and denial of Vigilance Clearance in the case of the Applicant
has been done as per the extant rules and provisions. That, the Vigilance
Clearance letter issued on 20.04.2018 indicating the inclusion of the name of
the Applicant in the AL reflected the vigilance status of the Applicant as on
20.04.2018 and the Applicant has not appreciated the fact that there could
have been change in his vigilance status in the intervening period between
11.04.2018 when his name was not on the AL and 20.04.2018 when his name has
been recorded in the AL of Officers of doubtful integrity. The inclusion of
the name of the Applicant in the AL has been done on the basis of some
complaints against the Applicant. Hence the change in the vigilance status is
justifiable. Analysis of above claim and counter claim would reveal that while
the respondents have full authority to change the vigilance status of an
officer, what is important is to examine as to how and with what rationality,
justifiability and reasonableness has the said authority been exercised. This
is important as the Hon'ble Supreme Court has time and again in a catena of
judgments asserted in no uncertain terms that the executive has to exercise
its authority in a just and reasonable manner in performance of its duties
more so when they are of quasi judicial nature as in the present case.
Therefore, the argument of the respondents as to their supreme unquestioned
authority to change the status of vigilance clearance without going into the
merits of the raison d'etre cannot be accepted point-blank. The test of
reasonability has to be passed and the averment of the  11 respondent is not
accepted without analyzing reasonability and fairness.
18\. Therefore, it becomes critical that we examine the reasonability of
exercise of authority by the respondents in the act of changing the VIGILANCE
CLEARANCE status in the nine days between 11.04.2018 and 20.04.2018. In order
to do so, it will be useful first of all to recall that the Respondents' have
during course of arguments and in counter reply raised inter-alia the
following observations against the Applicant for withholding his VIGILANCE
CLEARANCE:
> (i) Deficiencies found in the office inspections of 29/30.11.2017 of the
> Applicant.
> (ii) Adverse observations by the ITAT, Lucknow Bench against orders passed
> by applicant as Commissioner (Exemptions).
> (iii) Allegation of bribery.
All the above find mention in the 11.04.2018 Vigilance Clearance report while
not being mentioned at all in report of 20.04.2018. Notwithstanding, since
support of these allegation was taken during the course of arguments by Ld.
Respondent Counsel, therefore, they need to be critically examined. For this
it would be useful to first of all advert to the relief sought by the
applicant in O.A. No. 279 of 2018 in its exact wordings. The relevant portions
are extracted herein below:
> "....(i) To quash the initiation and all consequential proceedings of the
> Respondents to propose the Applicant's name for inclusion in the agreed
> list, as a counterblast to the order dated 02.02.2018 in O.A. 77/2018 of
> this Hon'ble Tribunal, and/or;
> (ii) Any other order which is deemed just and proper in the nature and
> circumstances of the case be also passed in favour of the applicant in the
> interest of justice along with the cost of this original application..."
19\. In this context therefore, it is important to first of all examine the
order dated 02.02.2018 in O.A. No. 77 of 2018 (Dy. No. 365/2018) of this
Hon'ble Tribunal. The operative portion of the order is extracted herein
below:-
12
> ".....6. Considering the facts and circumstances, a prima facie case of
> interim relief is made out and the respondent is directed to not to finalize
> the proceedings initiated on the basis of inspection conducted on 29.11.2017
> and 30.11.2017 and such proceedings will not create any hurdle in the way of
> promotion, appointment and deputation prospect of applicant. The respondent
> is also directed to produce the relevant record on the next date..."
As is clear, the above order sets aside the effect of the inspections carried
out on 29.11.2017 and 30.11.2017 of the office of the applicant and interim
relief was also granted w.r.t. negative effect of the disputed inspections in
connection with the promotion, appointment and deputation prospect of the
Applicant. The clear conclusion that emerges from the order of this Tribunal
is that the Respondents have been directed not to create any hurdle in the way
of promotion, appointment and deputation prospect of the Applicant on account
of the impugned inspections.
20\. The reason for such an unequivocal order stems from the earlier history
of the matter for which it is useful to recall that the respondents failed to
secure cover of the Hon'ble Supreme court in their SLP challenging the order
of the Hon'ble High Court dated 30.05.2017 which upheld the order of this
Tribunal dated 10.02.2017 which in turn had directed the respondents in the OA
95/2016 to place the record of the IB report before the Selection Board to
take a view of the appropriateness of the candidature of the applicant. The
reason why such an order was issued is made crystal clear in para 17 to 23 of
the order of this Tribunal dated 10.02.2017. Relevant portions are extracted
below:
> ".........17. The basic question which needs to be addressed here is: After
> the selection by the Selection Committee, if something adverse comes to the
> notice of the Government in the form of IB input what ought to be procedure
> for dealing with that input.
> 18\. It appears that without obtaining any response from the applicant and
> without placing it again before the Selection Committee, the applicant has
> been simply denied appointment. This is contradictory to what was done
> earlier by the authorities at the time of appointment to these posts in
> 2010. It has been admitted by the respondents in their reply in Para 26 that
> in the year 2010, the then ACC had directed the Department of Legal Affairs
> to request the Selection Committee to re- examine the case of two candidates
> in the light of IB inputs. In the present case no such direction had been
> given by the ACC. The counter reply is silent on why the same was not
> followed or could not be followed in the present case.
> 19\. In UoI & others Vs K.D Batish & Other (2006) 1 SCC 779, the Hon'ble
> Supreme Court addressed the issue of the scope of judicial review  13 in the
> order for appointment of a member of the Central Administrative Tribunal
> made in consultation with Chief Justice of India. The aggrieved persons were
> members of the Bar who were candidates for Judicial Member. After their
> selection by the Selection Committee headed by a sitting Judge of the
> Supreme Court, at the stage of ACC approval some adverse IB report came in
> respect of two persons. DoPT placed the entire material regarding the IB
> report before the Chief Justice of India. After his concurrence, appointment
> orders were issued excluding these two persons.
> 20\. In Dr. A.K. Doshi Vs UoI CA 1692-1694 of 2001, the matter was regarding
> appointment of a Member of Company Law Board. In this case, after selection
> by the Selection Committee, at the stage of ACC approval some adverse
> material was placed by Secretary, DOPT with respect to one of the person in
> panel and thus his name was rejected. Taking an adverse view of this
> process, the Hon'ble Supreme Court held: Thus the appointment can only be in
> consultation with Chief Justice of India or his nominee. It is for that
> reason a Selection Committee headed by a nominee of the Chief Justice of
> India is constituted for the purposes of selecting a Member. All materials,
> which are relevant, are to be placed before the Selection Committee
> .......If in an exceptional case the Appointment Committee feels that
> certain material which was not available to be considered by the Selection
> Committee has coming to existence in the mean time, and the material is
> relevant for the purpose of appointment, then the matter should be placed
> before the Selection Committee with the additional material for its
> consideration.
> 21\. In R.S Mittal vs UoI (1995 Supp (2) SCC 230, the matter was regarding
> the post of Judicial Member, ITAT. The Hon'ble Supreme Court held that when
> a person has been selected by a Selection Board and when there is a vacancy
> which can be offered to him keeping in view his merit position, ordinarily
> there is no justification to ignore him for an appointment and there has to
> be justifiable reason to decline to appoint a person who is in the select
> panel.
> 22\. In James K. Joseph vs. Govt. Of India before the Hon'ble High Court of
> Kerala in W.P. (C) NO. 16915/2005, the applicant had been recommended by the
> Selection Committee for Member (Administrative) in the Central
> Administrative Tribunal thereafter some adverse IB report came about his
> character and antecedents. This was placed before the Selection Committee
> again which withdrew its recommendation. This was concurred by the Hon'ble
> Chief Justice of India and, accordingly, he was not appointed.
> 23\. Thus, it is clear that in all such cases when an adverse IB report came
> about a person already placed in approved list by Selection Committee which
> is headed by a sitting judge of the Hon'ble Supreme Court, the procedure
> followed is that this material has been placed before the Hon'ble Chief
> Justice of India / the Selection Committee. In the present case, the said
> adverse material seems to be of a private matrimonial dispute which has been
> amicably settled before the competent legal forum at the highest level. In
> all fairness, this material ought to have been placed before the Hon'ble
> Chief Justice of India/ Selection Committee to reconsider whether this is
> sufficient to deny him appointment......."
21\. It will be further useful here to quote extracts of the order of the
Hon'ble High Court dated 30.05.2017 as also the orders of the Hon'ble Supreme
Court dated 15.11.2017:-
14
> Hon'ble High Court's order dated 30.05.2017.
> "........since in our view, Selection Board being a statutory body for
> recommending name of applicant-respondent for appointment to the post of
> Member of Income Tax Appellate Tribunal, appropriate procedure would be that
> aforesaid material should be considered by Selection Board itself at the
> first instance and a decision be taken by it. In this backdrop, direction
> given by Tribunal to petitioners to re-submit alleged Intelligence Bureau's
> report to Selection Board for consideration of additional material and make
> its recommendation again, accordingly, is wholly justified and warrants no
> interference.
> 10\. In view thereof, we find no reason to interfere with the impugned
> judgment.
> 11\. However, since, aforesaid judgment was rendered on 10.02.2017 and
> almost four months have already passed, hence in these circumstances, we
> direct petitioners to act in accordance with directions of Tribunal and get
> entire process of reconsideration by Selection Committee completed within
> three months from today. Appropriate action and recommendation of Selection
> Committee be taken within four weeks thereafter...."
> Hon'ble Apex Court's order 15.11.2017 "..........In our considered opinion,
> the High Court is justified in affirming the order passed by the Central
> Administrative Tribunal in directing re-consideration of the case of the
> first respondent by the Selection Board, as has been stated in paragraph 9
> of the impugned judgment and, therefore, there is no justification to
> interfere with the same.
> Needless to say, it will be open to the competent authority to re-
> constitute the Board.
> Resultantly, the Special Leave Petition is accordingly dismissed...."
Thus, the Hon'ble High Court and the Hon'ble Supreme Court have not found any
grounds of infirmity w.r.t. the order of this Tribunal dated 10.02.2017 and
have, in no uncertain terms directed expeditious consideration of the
applicant's case for appointment as ITAT member.
22\. Thus in a way after the dismissal of the SLP, the respondents were
cornered in a way such that now they had to place the IB report before the
Selection Board headed by a sitting judge of the Hon'ble Supreme Court and
given the fact that the reason for the IB's adverse finding w.r.t the
matrimonial dispute was already settled in the court even as per Respondents'
own communication dated 15th July 2015 in para 4 (Annexure-7), wherein it is
stated as per extracts hereunder:
15
> ".....that the alleged acts of bigamy against Shri Bajaj emanating from
> matrimonial dispute is not established..."
It is also noticed that the respondents have not been able to show any
substantive grounds adequate enough to withhold the vigilance clearance of the
applicant in the context of the said inspections. It is pertinent to mention
that the Hon'ble High Court in Writ petition No. 13390 of 2018 has
categorically held in its order dated 15.5.2018 that the inspection by DGIT
(V) was without jurisdiction. Hence, we are unable to accept the conclusion of
respondents to withhold his Vigilance Clearance on the basis of the said
inspection.
Further, at present, there is no higher Courts' order against order dt.
02.02.2018 of the Tribunal passed in addition to the earlier order dated
10.02.2017. Therefore, we find that, while trying to arrive at a decision on
the justifiability of withholding the VIGILANCE CLEARANCE of the Applicant
w.r.t. his promotion, appointment and deputation prospect at least on the
basis of the said inspections we fail to assure ourselves of any substantive
grounds to uphold the denial of VIGILANCE CLEARANCE. This conclusion is
further strengthened because the name of the applicant has been recommended
again by the Selection Board comprising the Hon'ble Judge of Hon'ble Supreme
Court vide Selection Board meeting of 26.04.2018 that is after the inspections
of November 2017.
23\. For the above reasons therefore, we find that the respondents would be
acting unjustifiably in withholding the VIGILANCE CLEARANCE on grounds of some
findings in the inspection report which is argued to be as one of the reasons.
The greater irony is that the said inspections were not found adequate enough
to withhold the VIGILANCE CLEARANCE in the report of 11.04.2018 but the same
are not even recorded as any reason at all anywhere in the report of
20.04.2018 although the said issue of inspections going against the applicant
have been asserted forcefully in the counter reply filed by the respondents.
The extracts of the two reports would make this more clear:
> "......DIRECTORATE GENERAL OF INCOME TAX (VIGILANCE) 2nd Floor, Jawahar Lal
> Nehru Stadium New Delhi-110003  16 F. No. DGIT(V)/NZ/VIGILANCE
> CLEARANCER/43/17/5216 Dated: 28.11.2018 To, Sh.Vipul Kashyap, DCIT (OSD)
> V&L)_I, CBDT, New Delhi.
> Sub: Seeking the opinion of CGSC regarding production of records in O.A No.
> 279/2018(Dy. No. 1495 of 2018) filed by Capt. P.K. Bajaj Vs. U.OI & Ors.
> Before the Hon'ble CAT,Lucnow-Reg.
> Ref: 1. Your office letter F. No. C-18011(V)/30/2015-V&L dated 16.11.2018.
> Kind reference to the invited above.
> I am forwarding the redacted copies of the relevant partes of the Agreed
> List Part B of the Agreed List pertains to the New additions proposed in the
> Agreed List for the year 2018 and Part D of the Agreed List pertains to the
> Final Agreed List for the year 2018\. Kindly acknowledge.
> (Rukmani Attri) Encl: As above JDIT (Vg.) (Hq. Admn. & Coord.) New Delhi.
> Copy to :
> ADG (Vig.)-II for information and records.
> Part B: New additions proposed in the Agreed List for 2018 as agreed by Pr.
> DGIT(Vig.) & CVO, CBDT and joint Dircto, BI (Policy Division) on 19.04.2018
> Zone S.No. Civil List Name of Desgn & Reason for Code the Place of inclusion
> Officer Posting Shri/Ms.
> Part D: The Final Agreed List for the year 2018 arrived by Pr. DGIT (Vig.) &
> CVO CBDT and joint Director (Policy), CBI on 19.04.2018.
                      Zone        Sr. No.   Civil List   Name of      Desgn &     Reasons
                                            Code         the          Place of
                                                         officer      posting
                                                         Shri/Ms.
                      North        33.           90031         P.K.         CIT,         Complaint
                                                               Bajaj        Lucknow      under
                                                                                         investigation
                                                                                         by
                                                                                         Department
                   A.K. Sharma                                             Abha A. Kishore
                  Joint Director (Policy), CBI                         Pr.DGIT(Vigilance) &
                                                                             CVO, CBDT..."
    1   Name of the officer                       Capt P K Bajaj
    2   Father s Name                             Late Shri PD Bajaj
    3   Date of Birth                             26.01.1960
    4   Date of Retirement                        31.01.2020
                                                   17
    5       Date of entry into service                 25.01.1993
    6       Service in which officer belongs           Indian Revenue Services
    7       Position held
    S.        Organization    Designation       Administrative/n     From        To
    No.       (Name      in   and place of      odal
              Full)           posting           Ministry/Deptt.
                                                Concerned       in
                                                case of officer of
                                                PSUs etc.
    (i)       Income Tax                        Ministry        of   31.10.20    07.07.200
              Department      Addl/CIT          Finance              07          9
                              Range-10(3)
    (ii)      Income Tax      Addl/JCIT         Ministry        of   10.07.20    13.02.201
              Department      Sr.DR.ITAT        Finance              09          2
                              Lucknow
    (iii)     Income Tax      CIT               Ministry        of   13.02.20    07.09.201
              Department      Hazaribagh        Finance              12          2
    (iv)      Income Tax      CIT (Audit)       Ministry        of   10.09.20    22.06.201
              Department      Kanpur            Finance              12          5
    (v)       Income Tax      CIT               Ministry        of   22.06.20    Till Date
              Department      (Exemptions       Finance              15
                              ) Lucknow
    8.       Whether of officer has        NO
             been placed on the
             "Agreed List" or List of
             Officers    of   Doubtful
             integrity
    9.       Whether any allegation        One COM/VIGILANCE CLEARANCER File no.
             of misconduct involving       NZ/VIGILANCE        CLEARANCER/43/17       is
             vigilance angle was           pending against the officer. In which the
             examined against the          main allegation is demand of bribe for
             officer during the last 10    registration of trust u/s 12AA and 80 (G) of
             years and if so with          IT Act. There was also an observation of
             what results                  concern by Hon'ble ITAT Bench Lucknow in
                                           respect of quality of orders passed by Sh PK
                                           Bajaj as CIT (Exemp) Lucknow. A vigilance
                                           inspection was also carried out on
                                           29.11.2017 and 30.11.2017.
    1        Whether                any    NO
    0.       punishment            was
             awarded to the officer
             during last 10 years
             and if sop the date of
             imposition and detail of
             the penalty
    1        Is                     any    No
    1.       disciplinary/criminal
             proceeding or charge
             sheet pending against
             the officer as on date.[ If
             so     details    to     be
             furnished-including
             reference no. if any of
             the commission]
    1        Is       any         action   NO
    2.       contemplated       against
             the officer as on date (If
             so     details    to     be
             furnished.) (*)
    1        Date of filling of latest     05.01.2018
    3.       IPR
                                           18
> In this matter, the Hon'ble CAT has granted an interim relief vide its order
> dated 02.02.2018 which states as below:
> "....Considering the facts and circumstances, a prima facie case of interim
> relief is made out and the respondent is directed to not to finalize the
> proceedings initiated on the basis of inspection conducted on 29.11.2017 and
> 30.11.2017 and such proceedings will not create any hurdle in the way of
> promotion, appointment and deputation prospect of applicant. The respondent
> is also directed to produce the relevant record on the next date. The next
> date of hearing in this case is 27.03.2018.
> (Abha A. Kishore) Pr. DGIT (Vig.)/CVO Dated 11th April, 2018......"
More-so, omission in the 20.04.2018 report of any specific complaint (Singular
word 'complaint' to be noted) versus strong assertion in the counter reply of
more than one complaint is by itself a strange suspect incongruous situation
wherein what is asserted in the counter reply is not evident in the report of
20.04.2018 relied upon and neither clarified even during the course of the
arguments by the respondent side. For these reasons the applicant's logic of
seeking relief seems justifiable and the reasons advanced by the respondents
to change Vigilance Clearance status insofar as they relate to the inspections
totally devoid of legal and administrative merit.
24\. Let us now take up the assertion of the respondents that apart from the
allegedly adverse findings in the inspections of November 2017, there are
other justifiable reasons for the reversal of findings on Vigilance Clearance
between 20.04.2018 and 11.04.2018 and these relate to alleged demand of bribe
by the applicant in a matter concerning refusal to grant tax exemption to a
Trust by the Applicant as Commissioner (Exemptions) under section 12AA and 80
(G) of IT Act. This is supported as per respondents' submission by the
observation of Hon'ble ITAT, Lucknow Bench in respect of quality of the order
passed by the applicant as Commissioner (Exemptions). Respondents support this
contention on the grounds of the letter dated 08.02.2016 issued by the office
of CIT Appellate Tribunal, Lucknow (Annexure CR-1) communicating the serious
concern expressed by the Hon'ble ITAT, Lucknow Bench in the course of hearing
of the appeal in the cases of Fateh Chand Charitable Trust Ganesh Sewa  19
Samitee of Bahraich, UP against the Applicant's order as Commissioner
(Exemptions).
It will be useful to state the relevant portion of the order dated 08.02.2016:
> "To, The Chief Commissioner of Income Tax (Exemptions) New Delhi.
> Sir, Sub: Serious concern expressed by the Hon'ble ITAT, Lucknow Bench in
> the course of hearing of ITA No. 673/LKW/2015 in the case of Shri Ganesh
> Sewa Samiti- Vrs- CIT (Exemptions) and in ITA No. 792/LKW/2015 in the case
> of M/s Fateh Chand Charitable Trust-Vrs-CIT (Exemptions), Lucknow-reg.
> This is to bring to your kind notice that in the course of hearing of all
> above mentioned cases on 04.02.2016, the Hon'ble ITAT, Lucknow Bench has
> expressed serious concern over the kind of stereo-typed order being passed
> by the Ld. Commissioner of Income Tax (Exemptions), Lucknow without any
> application of mind, totally ignoring the documents filed by the assessee
> trust and even without providing the copy of material used against them...."
The only point that emerges on examination of the said letter is the
observation that the ITAT, Lucknow Bench expressed concern on the stereotyped
nature of the order being passed by the CIT (Exemptions), Lucknow. This cannot
be held to be sufficient ground prima facie for withholding the Vigilance
Clearance of the applicant and label him as a corrupt officer. It is at best a
feature of criticism of skill in delivering a quasi-judicial order rather than
anything which cast shadow on his integrity. On the other hand, the Applicant
by way of explanation, has filed a copy of the order of the Ld. ITAT Bench
which concerns the Sri Ganesh Sewa Samitee of Bahraich, UP and Fateh Chand
Charitable Trust (FCCT) cases in which it may be noted at the outset that the
actual judgements were passed on dates 06.04.2017 and 04.03.2016 respectively
which is later to the letter dated 08.02.2016 relied upon by the respondents;
implying thereby, that conclusions were drawn against the officer-applicant
merely on the basis of the letter dated 08.02.2016 and the respective
authorities did not deem it fit to wait for the judgment to be delivered
before issuing adverse remarks against the applicant.
20
25\. Further, it is to be noted that the appeals concerned had been filed by
the FCCT against the order of CIT (Exemptions), Lucknow dated 11.01.2016
wherein the CIT (Exemptions) had cancelled the recognition granted to the FCCT
u/s 80 (G)(5)(vi) of the IT Act. In the appeal, Ld ITAT had struck down the
order of applicant passed as Commissioner (Exemptions) and observed as under:
> "......Out of these conditions, the CIT (Exemptions) in his order has not
> given any finding that the assessee has violated any of these conditions as
> stipulated u/s 80(G)(5) except that the registration of the trust has been
> cancelled u/s 12AA(3) of the Act..."
Similarly as regards the other order of the Applicant as CIT (Exemptions) in
the Ganesh Sewa Samiti matter, examination of the order dated 04.03.2016 of
the Ld. ITAT reveals that certain observations have been made w.r.t. the order
of the CIT (Exemptions). The same are reproduced herein below for the clarity:
> ".........but the CIT (Exemptions) did not take any pain to look into it and
> out rightly denied the registration by passing an order on the same date
> i.e. 01.10.2015. The approach of the CIT (Exemptions) cannot be
> appreciated...."
On the above appellate orders the applicant has argued that they are in the
nature of a judicial process wherein order of Ld. ITAT dated 06.04.2017 has
struck down the order of the Applicant which he passed as CIT (Exemptions)
vide order dated 11.01.2016. That the appellate orders nowhere cast shadow on
personal integrity of the applicant. Therefore they cannot be a strong enough
ground for holding the order of the applicant as Commissioner Exemptions as
being of corrupt nature and therefore being a good reason for withholding the
integrity of the applicant and hence not giving VIGILANCE CLEARANCE.
26\. We are inclined to agree to the Applicant's submission that the orders
passed by him as CIT (Exemptions) are based on facts as available with
him/understood by him and are in the nature of a judicial order which are
subject to review like any other order of any competent authority passing an
order which may be of judicial nature. It stands to reason that the appellate
authority by their superior understanding of the case matters struck down an
order by a lower authority. That, mere setting aside cannot be held  21 to be
a ground of corrupt nature. More importantly, even by the circuitous
imagination there would cannot easily be a malafide in passing of an order
which actually only benefited the Government by way of quashing the exemptions
sought by the concerned parties w.r.t. payment of the income tax as revenue to
the government and applicant by inference could not have benefited in a
pecuniary manner by denial of exemption prayed by the said tax payees.
27\. Therefore, it cannot be straightway held that the applicant acted in a
corrupt manner in the said cases and so there is a strong enough basis for
withholding the VIGILANCE CLEARANCE. Further it is to be noted that the two
judicial orders were never thereafter investigated or examined by the
respondents as to whether they were emanating from corrupt reasons, and
whether the officer had malafide intentions driven by monetary benefits. The
Respondents have not been able to produce any follow up w.r.t. inquiry in the
said matter leading to a disciplinary proceeding against the Officer. Now,
after a lapse of more than two years to take them as basis for doubting the
integrity in such a manner as to include the applicant's name in the AL
leading to refusal of issue of Vigilance clearance for appointment as ITAT
Member seems to be highly unjustifiable. Thus, the respondents' assertion that
the observations of the CIT Appellate Tribunal office in the letter dated
08.02.2016 are justifiable grounds to withhold the integrity of the applicant
seem to be on thin ice and we cannot allow ourselves to uphold them.
28\. The next averment of the respondents' is that it is erroneous on part of
the applicant to argue that the decision on the VIGILANCE CLEARANCE was taken
by the department/DGIT(V) unilaterally without any inputs from the CBI who are
required to be consulted in such matters as per laid down process. That is to
imply that there were inputs from CBI also. For this it is important to
understand the typical process by which the inclusion of the name of any
officer in the Agreed List taken place. On this point, it is not disputed that
the process of inclusion of the name in the AL is done on an annual basis in a
meeting convened between the Pr. DGIT (V) and the Joint Director (Policy),
CBI. During the meeting  22 either or both sides present cites instances
concerning lack of integrity of the officer under assessment and depending on
the proposals presented by either side, the record is finalized. Clarifying
this further, it was argued by the Applicant that whenever a name is to be
considered for being included in the AL, the proposal is either put up from
the side of the DGIT (V) or from the side of CBI depending upon the evidence
either one of them may have w.r.t. the officer concerned. That, in the present
case there was no matter of CBI investigation concerning the Applicant and
therefore it could not have been the CBI logically therefore who could have
brought forth the name of the Applicant for inclusion in the AL and so it
follows that it was the Income Tax Department represented by the DGIT (V)
which would have got the applicant's name recorded fully well aware that just
nine days ago, in the 11.04.2018 communication the VIGILANCE CLEARANCE was
granted by DGIT (V) inspite and despite of certain recorded complaints w.r.t.
the Applicant.
This would make it clear that while the name of the applicant is not included
in the AL vide communication dated 11.04.2018, certain observations are indeed
recorded in the assessment. However none of these observations mention any CBI
case pending against the applicant. Only Income tax related cases are
mentioned. And then, the name of the applicant has NOT been included in the AL
by recording 'NO' which is in direct contrast to the recording 'YES' in
Vigilance clearance dated 20.4.2018 and this time even without mentioning any
specific complaint. No light has been thrown on this even during the course of
the arguments by the Ld Respondent Counsel. In the event therefore, it is
difficult to uphold the view of the respondents' that it was not them alone
who got the name of the applicant recorded in AL and that too this time, that
is on 19.04.2018 even without recording any specific remark. We cannot allow
ourselves the luxury of believing the respondents' that there are justifiable
grounds to change the vigilance status in a fair and justifiable manner
without even the clarity of any remarks in the report of 19.04.2018. In fact
we are wont to agree with the submission of the applicant that the vigilance
status between 11.04.2018 and 20.04.2018 has been changed to the detriment of
the applicant without adequate  23 reasons and is malafide. More-so, that the
vigilance status has been changed in nine days because of certain complaints
which are not even mentioned in the remarks column of the impugned letter of
date 20.04.2018. Hence due to lack of any explicit reasons there seems to be
little merit in the assertion by the respondents' that the name of the
applicant was included in the AL also on behest of CBI and it was not due only
to complaints harboured earlier by the department.
29\. We may now take up the next argument made by the Respondents that there
is no let or hindrance in time limit for decision w.r.t. considering
complaints for being recorded in the AL in the context of circular F. No.
A38012/4/91-V&L dated 13.03.1991 as averred by the Applicant. Further, that
only valid complaints against the applicant have resulted in the withholding
of the VIGILANCE CLEARANCE. Relevant extracts of the above circular are
extracted herein below to settle these points.
> ".............F.No. A38012/4/91-V&L Government of India Ministry of Finance
> Department of Revenue Central Board of Direct Taxes New Delhi 13.3.1991 Sub:
> Preparation of "Agreed List" of Gazetted Officers suspect integrity
> guidelines regarding Of "Agreed Lists" of officers of suspect integrity are
> being prepared in accordance with the instruction No. 130/1/66-A Vd, dated
> 5.5.66 of the Ministry of Home Affairs, and Instruction No. 321/6/78-AVD
> dated 4.3.78 of the Department of Personnel Affairs.
> 2\. In pursuance of these instructions, "agreed" lists of suspect officers
> of the Income Tax Department are being drawn annually at the local level of
> Commissioners of Income Tax, in consultation with the local officers of the
> CBI as also by the CVO, CBDT, in consultation with the CBI(GQ). Past
> experience has shown following deficiencies in preparation and operation of
> these "agreed lists."
> The Commissioners preparing "agreed lists", at the local levels, are often
> unaware of the purpose as well as the implications of placing an officer on
> the "agreed lists". Instances are not lacking, where names of officers have
> been included without serious thoughts. In some cases, names have been
> included only because the CBI suggested them. In a number of instances,
> reasons have not been recorded before including the name of a particular
> officer. On the other hand, officers against whom serious doubts have
> persisted are not considered for inclusion in these lists. In some CIT
> charges, not a single officer has been included in the "agreed lists" for
> years.
(ii) In a number of instances, names of officers are included or excluded from
"agreed lists" without the knowledge of the Board as well as the Director of
Income Tax (Vig.)  24
(iii) In many instances, officers whose names are also included in the "agreed
lists" remain there for years together without any further action. Even after
an officer is taken on the "agreed list" no effort is made to collect
materials so as to establish or remove the doubts on the basis of which his
name was included in the "agreed list" in the first place. In some cases, such
offices have even remained on sensitive posts while continuing to be on the
"agreed lists".
3\. In order to streamline the departmental work, practices regarding
preparation and operations of the "agreed list", the following guidelines are
hereby laid-down:-
>  Purpose of inclusion in "agreed list"
> It needs to be reiterated that as mentioned in the Instruction dated 5.5.66
> of the Ministry of Home Affairs, the basic purpose of placing an office on
> the "agreed list" is to verify cases where complaints and doubts about his
> integrity have persisted.
>  Implications of inclusion in "agreed list". It also needs to be reiterated
> that the implication of placing on officer on the "agreed list" is to convey
> the agreement of the dept to any investigation against him by the CBI,
> should be prepared with due care and caution and every effort should be made
> to ensure that the cases of officers whose integrity are seriously suspect,
> are placed on the "agreed list".
>  Reasons of inclusion. Hence forth, in every case where an officer's name
> is being included in the "agreed list", a gist of the material, on the basis
> of which this is being done, just invariably be put on record.
                Authority competent to include
                   Names of Group B officers may be included in the "agreed
> list" by the local Commissioners at their own levers after recording reasons
> and in consultation with the Directorate of Vigilance. A copy of these
> reasons should invariably be sent to the Directorate of Income Tax
> (Vigilance) as a secret note for comments before agreeing with the CBI to
> include the name in the suspect list.
>  Names of the Group 'A' officers up to the level of D.Cs.I.T may be
> included in the "agreed list" by the local commissioners, but only with the
> prior approval of the Board. In such cases, secrete note containing the
> reasons for inclusion of an officer's name should be sent to the Directorate
> of Income Tax(Vigilance) well in advance for securing Board's approval.
>  Names of the officers of the level of Cs.I.T and above should not be
> included in the "agreed list" prepared at local levels. These cases should
> be included only in the "agreed list" prepared at the central level by the
> Directorate of Income Tax(Vigilance) with the approval of the CBDT.
>  If necessary, the Directorate of Income Tax (Vigilance) and the CBDT may
> agree to the inclusion of officers below the rank of CIT also in the Central
> "agreed list" after recording reasons.
> (e) Period: Normally, an officer should not remain on the "agreed list" for
> more than one year on the same ground. However, in exceptional cases, this
> initial period may be extended by one year each to the maximum of 3 years
> with the prior approval of the CBDT.
           (f)      Action on inclusion
                                           25
                (i)      Once the name of an officer is included in the "agreed list",
> he should not be posted to any sensitive post involving public contacts.
> (ii) Immediate steps should be taken so as to complete an inspection of the
> technical work and financial affairs of the offices within 3 months, and the
> information should be shared with the CBI. Similarly, may further complaint
> or information coming on record should also be shared with the CBI.
> (iii) The information gathered during such inspections should be taken into
> account in writing the ACRs on the 'agreed list".
> (iv) On transfer of an officer on the "agreed list" from on the "agreed
> list" from one IT charge to another IT charge, the secret note as well as
> the position of further enquiries should be communicated to the concerned
> CIT.
> (g) Exclusion The name of an officer once included in the "agreed list"
> should be deleted only with the prior approval of the Directorate of Income
> Tax (Vigilance) in cases of Group B officers and of the CBDT in cases of
> Group A officers. For this purpose, the concerned CsIT my submit a self
> contained proposal to the Directorate of Income Tax (Vigilance), indicating
> their reasons well before the time limit mentioned in item (V) above.
> (Taranand) Director (Vigilance & Litigation)"
Analyzing of above reveals that it has been cautioned in Para- 2 (i) that
"....instances are not lacking, where names of officers have been included
without serious thoughts. It has been further added that ........in some
cases, names have been included only because the CBI suggested them..". Again
it is mentioned that ".......in a number of instances, reasons have not been
recorded before including the name of a particular officer..."
Analyzing these lines, with a bit of little care, reveals the
inappropriateness of the inclusion of the name of the Applicant in the report
dated 20.04.2018. The lack of reasons in the remarks column seriously lays
doubt as the conditions laid down in the aforesaid para- 2(i) are unfulfilled.
It is also to be noted in the above wordings that ".......mere inclusion of a
name by mere statement of the CBI" has been cautioned. In the present case,
the averment of the respondents that the name of the Applicant was included in
consultation with the CBI is not even  26 substantiated by any remark in the
report, hence cannot be upheld.
Again if the para - 3 (a) is perused, there is need for complaints and doubts
about the integrity of the officer to persist as per instructions dated
05.05.1966 of the Ministry of Home Affairs. It may be seen as per analysis of
the earlier paras that, whatever complaint has been recorded pertain to the
year 2016- 2017 (one year only) w.r.t. certain judgments being set-aside in
judicial capacity by the Appellate Authority and certain irregularities found
in course of inspections. Thus, there is no persistence of any complaint and
more-so the complaints have not been taken forward to the next logical steps
for conclusions thereof w.r.t. the correctness and strength of the complaints,
and them being worthwhile enough to withhold the Vigilance Clearance of the
officer concerned.
Para 3 (b) and (c) refer to implications of inclusion in the AL. A reading of
it reveals that the circular has cautioned that the list needs to be prepared
with due care and a gist of the material, on the basis of which the inclusion
done invariably put on record.
30\. Again it is mentioned in para -3 (f) (ii) that whenever the name of the
officer is put on AL immediate steps should be taken so as to complete the
inspection of the technical work and financial affairs of the offices within
three months and the information should be shared to CBI. It is also mentioned
in Para 3 (f) (iii) that the information so gathered should be taken into
account in writing ACRs. As analyzed in the earlier paras, we fail to find any
follow up by the respondents in respect of the matters of 2016-17 and the ACR
of the officer have been held to be Outstanding nature (for example 8.76 marks
in the APAR of 2016.) The Respondents have not been able to show any APAR
which would support para 3 (f) (iii) of the circular of 1991 above. Also the
Respondents' specious plea that vigilance/integrity issued are recorded only
in separate vigilance report is not fully justifiable as in the APARs, there
is a specific column w.r.t. certification of integrity by the Reporting
Officer which offers specific opportunity to record observations in their
report.
27
However, nowhere have the Respondents' been able to show that this opportunity
has been utilized by the Reporting officer during the course of recording APAR
of the applicant. Such lack of remarks contributes to the malafide intention
of the Respondents' in recording VIGILANCE CLEARANCE vide report dated
19.04.2018.
The Applicant has also filed Annexure A-4 which is a brief of the various
cases concerning the officer. It is seen that a number of complaints have been
closed on the various dates or on remarks "No details provided by the
Respondents. No query ever raised till date, Fictitious/Pseudo anonymous
complaint etc".
It would be useful to reproduce the Annexure -4 to fortify the facts that
there seem to be little grounds with the Respondents to cast doubts on the
integrity of the Applicant much less withhold his VIGILANCE CLEARANCE. In fact
in one complaint it is alleged that the Applicant had harassed by another
officer Sri O. P. Jangre. In this matter the Applicant has pointed that on the
contrary the Anti Corruption Bureau of the CBI has at a later date arrested
the concerned complainant on charges of corruption. Extracts of the complaints
quoted by the Respondents are quoted herein below for clarity:-
Brief of Case.
Apart from the two cases mentioned in the writ petition there are many other
cases of complaints against Shri P. K. Bajaj pending in the Vigilance
directorate which are as summarized below:
     S.     Name of officer                                                                    status
     No.
     1.     Sh. P. K. Bajaj Addl CIT, Range 6    Shri O.P. Jangre                              Charges of harassment &
            (2), Mumbai                                                                        interference in work by
                                                                                               subordinate officer Shri S
                                                                                               Jangre on Shri P. K. Baj
                                                                                               Under Examination.
     2.     Sh. P. K. Bajaj, CIT E, Lucknow                                                    Closed dated 03.05.2018
     3.     Sh. P. K. Bajaj, CIT E, Lucknow      Complaint made by Driving Training and        Under examination
Scientific Research Lucknow in January 2016
4\. Sh. P. K. Bajaj, CIT E, Lucknow Sh. Dharam Veer Kapil IFS Retd Dated ID
issued dated 13.11.17 17.10.2017 responded dt 18.11.17 U Examination
5\. Sh. P. K. Bajaj, CIT E, Lucknow Sh. Balesh Singh, through ID issued dated
27.12.17 PMOPG/E2017/0597795 dated 17.11.17.
     6.     Sh. P.K. Bajaj,CIT(Exemption),       Shri Ashok Verma, Lucknow                     ID issued dated
            Lucknow                                                                            08/04/16.Reminder date
                                                                                               11.05.16. ID neither resp
                                                   28
                                                                                                      nor received back undeli
                                                                                                      date. Closed dated 19.07
    7.    Sh. P. K. Bajaj, CIT E, Lucknow       Sh. Jagat Pandey, 28/42,Civil Lines, Bareilly,        ID issued dated 03.08.16
U.P. Dated 29.06.16. Reminder dated 09.09.16 letter received back unde Closed
dated 07.10.16.
    8.    Shri Pramod Bajaj,                    Sh. Ashish Rastogi, A 70,      ID issued dated 25.02.16. Reminder dated 11.0
          CIT(Exemption), Lucknow               Gandhi Nagar, Prince Road      neither received back nor responded. Closed d
                                                Muradabad, U.P.                29.08.16.
    9.    CAPT. P.K. Bajaj Addl. CIT            Smt. Renu Bajaj W/o Capt       Letter dated 28.01.15 to CIT, Ajmer for providin
                                                P. K. Bajaj                    information on case in court matter. A letter to
Jaipur for status report dated 20.01.16 & remin dated 28.09.16 sent.
    S.    Name of officer                                             Status            5.Facts as per
    No.                                                                                 petitioner
    1.    Sh. P. K. Bajaj Addl. CIT,                                                    No explanation ever
                                                                                        called for from
                                                                                        petitioner in last 13
                                                                                        yeas in this regard.
                                                                                        Shri S. K. Jangre
                                                                                        was arrested by
                                                                                        ACB/CBI on
                                                                                        12.12.15, and is
                                                                                        under suspension.
                                                                                        (Annexure No. A1).
    2     Sh. P. K. Bajaj              Blank/                         Closed dated      No details
          CIT(E),Lucknow                                              03.05.18          mentioned
    3.    Sri P.K. Bajaj CIT,         Complaint made by Driving      Under             File taken for
          Lucknow                      Training and Scientific        Examination       inspection on
                                       Research Lucknow in                              03.02.2016
                                       January 2016                                     returned after 17
                                                                                        months on
                                                                                        09.08.2017. with
                                                                                        the remarks that
                                                                                        this record as no
                                                                                        longer require and
                                                                                        matter closed by
                                                                                        ADG(VIG)(NZ on
                                                                                        10.02.16.
                                                                                        (Annexure no. A2)
                                                                                        (ii) NBW issued by
                                                                                        Ld. CJM Lucknow
                                                                                        against complainant
                                                                                        (Annexure no. A3)
    4.    Sri P.K. Bajaj CIT(E),       Sh. Dharm Veer Kapil IFS        ID issued dt.    Father in Law of
          Lucknow                      Rent. Dated 17.10.17           13.112017 ID      Mrs. Naina Kapil So
                                                                      responded dt.     in, IRS posted
                                                                      18.11.17.         earlier in DG(V)
                                                                      under             office Delhi.
                                                                      examination
                                                                                        (ii) Application
                                                                                        rejected because
                                                                                        even PAN was not
                                                                                        provided in spite of
                                                                                        two opportunities
                                                                                        given (copy of order
                                                                                        as Annexure No.
                                                                                        A4)
    5.    Sri P.K. Bajaj CIT(E),       Sh. Balesh Singh through       ID issued         No details provided
          Lucknow                      PMOPG/E/2017/0597795           dt.27/12/17       by Respondents.
                                       dt. 17.11.17                                     No.query ever
                                                    29
                                                                                            raised till date.
    6.       Sri P.K. Bajaj            Sh. Ashok Verma, Lucknow          ID issued dt.      Fictitious/Pseudo
             CIT(Exempton), Lucknow                                      08/04/16           anonymous
                                                                         Reminder dt.       complaint. Still
                                                                         11.05.16 ID        connected files
                                                                         neither            taken during
                                                                         responded nor      inspection on
                                                                         received back      29.11.2017.
                                                                         undelivered
                                                                         till date
                                                                         Closed
                                                                         dt./19.7.16.
    7.       Sri P.K. Bajaj            Sh. Jagat Pandey, 28/42           ID issued          Fictitious/Pseudo
                                       Civil Lines, Bareilly, U.P. Dt.   dated              anonymous
             CIT(Exemption), Lucknow   29.06.16.                         03.08.16           complaint still
                                                                         Reminder dt.       connected files
                                                                         09.09.16. ID       taken during
                                                                         letter received    inspection on
                                                                         back               29.11.2017
                                                                         undelivered.
                                                                         Closed/dt.
                                                                         07.10.16.
     8        Sh. Pramod Bajaj          Shri Ashish Rastogi, A-70         ID issued          Fictitious/Pseudo
              CIT(Exemption)Lucknow     Gandhi Nagar Prine Road,          dated              anonymous
                                        Moradabad U.P.                    25.02.16           complaint still
                                                                          reminder           connected files
                                                                          dated              taken during
                                                                          11.05.16. ID       inspection on
                                                                          neither            29.11.2017.
                                                                          received
                                                                          back nor
                                                                          responded.
                                                                          Closed
                                                                          Dt/29.08.16
     9.       Capt. P.K. Bajaj Addl.    Smt. Renu Bajaj W/o Capt          Letter dt.         Divorced on
              CIT                       P.K. Bajaj                        28.01.15 to        31.05.2008. No
                                                                          CIT, Ajmer         query ever raised
                                                                          for providing      by DGIT (V) till
                                                                          information        date but copies of
                                                                          on case in         Hon'ble SC/HC
                                                                          court matter.      orders handover to
                                                                          A letter to Pr.    DGIT (V) on
                                                                          CCIT Jaipur        21.03.2018 (old
                                                                          for status         settled
                                                                          report dt.         matrimonial
                                                                          20.1.16 &          dispute), but still
                                                                          reminder dt.       kept pending by
                                                                          28.09.16           DGIT(V) (copy as
                                                                          sent               Annexure No. A5)
    Note
             Serial Numbers 2,6,7 and 8 above already shown closed
by DGIT (V) but still shown incorrectly as pending.  Subject of document
filed by respondent incorrectly mentions" Apart from the two cases mentioned
in writ petition" since all above 4 cases are mentioned in W.P.
31\. On the whole, therefore, there seems to be little justification in the
plea of the respondents that there are no time limits for consideration of any
matter howsoever old for withholding  30 integrity of an officer even when the
same has not even been appropriately investigated. On merits also there seem
little grounds for holding the view that the so called deficiencies found
during the course of inspection of the office of the applicant and the
observations of the Ld ITAT Bench Lucknow as also other complaints made out
against the Applicant support the corrupt nature of the officer. Hence it is
unjustifiable to withhold the Vigilance Clearance on the above grounds.
32\. The Respondents have also filed additional circulars such as Vigilance
Clearance circular No. 3K-DSP-10 dated 07.04.2000, extracts of the Ministry of
Home Affairs O.M. No. 130/1/66-AVD dated 05.05.1966, Circular dated
07.04.2000, circular dated 14.08.2000 and circular dated 05.05.1966 to support
their right and reasonability in refusing the Vigilance Clearance. Respondents
have highlighted para 1 and 2 of the Circular dated 07.04.2000, para-2, 3 and
10 of the circular dated 14.08.2000 and para 6 of the circular 05.05.1966.
Relevant paras are extracted herein below for clarity:
> Circular dated 07.04.2000 "....1. The procedure for preparing the Agreed
> List envisage that the Agreed List would be prepared of officers of gazetted
> status whose honesty or integrity there are complaint, doubts or suspicion,
> after consultation between the officers of the concerned organizations and
> the CBI. It also envisage that following action would be taken by the
> concerned organization and the CBI in respect of the officers appearing on
> the list:-
>  Closer and more frequent scrutiny and inspection of their work and
> performance by the Departments concerned, particularly in spheres where
> there is scope for discretion or for showing favours;  Quite check about
> their reputation both by the Department and the CBI;
>  Unobtrusive watch of their contacts, style of living etc. by the CBI;
>  Secret enquiry by the CBI about their assets and financial resources. The
> Departments will make available their property returns and other relevant
> records to the CBI; and  Collection of information by the CBI of specific
> instances of bribery and corruption practices.
> 2\. The Commission has observed that the number of cases emerging against
> the officers appearing on the Agreed List do not commensurate with the
> public perception about corruption. This could be because of the reason that
> the CVOs generally regard that it is the CBI's job to keep a watch over the
> activities of the officers appearing on the list. The CBI, on the other
> hand, may not be in a position to spare the services of its officers, due to
> manpower constraints, for keeping a watch over such officers. The  31
> Commission is of the activities of the officers appearing on the Agreed
> List, will have to be strengthened. The Commission would, therefore, advise
> that the CVOs should take immediate steps to finalise the Agreed List in
> consultation with the CBI and forward a copy thereof to the Commission. The
> Commission also desires that the CVOs may henceforth also take steps, as
> expected from the CBI, to keep a watch over the activities of the officers
> appearing on the Agreed List and also on the List of officers of doubtful
> integrity. The positive results achieved in this regard may be reported to
> the Commission. Action taken in this regard would be reviewed by the
> CVIGILANCE CLEARANCE while reviewing the performance of the CVOs..."
> Circular dated 14.08.2000 "......2. The criteria for making such lists has
> been provided in the Ministry of Home Affairs Letter No. 130/1/66-AVD dated
> 5/5/66 and letter No. 105/1/66-AVD dated 28/10/69. It has been provided in
> these instructions that the "Agreed list so prepared will remain in force
> for one year from the date of preparation and officials
> work/activities/behavior during the period would be watched and the list
> would be reviewed after this period. The list of officers of doubtful
> integrity will remain in force for a period of three years.
> 3\. Notwithstanding the extent instructions available on the subject, many
> organizations do not strictly adhere to the prescribed duration and lists so
> prepared continue for years together. The Commission also observes that many
> departments/organizations are either not maintaining such lists or are not
> reviewing them periodically. Further, officers of doubtful integrity are
> sometimes placed in sensitive positions. Adequate precautions should be
> taken in drawing up and maintaining the "Agreed list" and the "list of
> officers of doubtful integrity" to ensure that they are correctly and
> objectively prepared and reviewed from time to time.
> 10\. MAINTENANCE & CUSTODY OF THE LISTS: It will be the duty of the Chief
> Vigilance Officer/Vigilance Officer of the Ministry/Department/Undertaking t
> maintain those lists up to date. The list will be treated as "SECRET" and
> the Head of the Ministry /Department/Undertaking will be responsible for its
> safe custody..."
> Circular dated 05.05.1966 ".....6. 'Agreed' Lists will be prepared of
> officers of gazetted status against whose honesty or integrity there are
> complaints, doubts or suspicions after consultation between the officers of
> the Departments concerned and of CBI. Expect in regard to Port Trusts,
> Public Sector Undertakings and Union Territories those lists will be settled
> by discussion at Delhi between the Head of Department concerned and Add.
> I.G.P. and the D.I.G. (Spl.) of the CBI. The agreed lists relating to Port
> Trusts, Public Sector Undertakings and Union Territories will be settled by
> mutual discussion between the Head of Port Trust or the Public Sector
> Undertakings or the Chief Secretary of the Union Territory concerned and the
> D.I.G. of Police C.B.I. and the S.P. of the local Branch of the CBI. To
> achieve the best result it is important that there should be free and frank
> exchange of information during these discussions..."
A reading of these circulars would reveal that these are guidelines for
inclusion of the name of an officer in the AL. In fact, para 2 of the circular
dated 07.04.2000 cautions that ".... a  32 number of cases emerging .... do
not commensurate with the public perception about corruption.......could be
because the CVOs generally regard that it is the CBI's job to keep a watch
over the activities of the officers..."
33\. What this implies is that the department has to be very careful in
including the name of an officer in the AL inspite of possible CBI mentioning
a name for inclusion. In the instant case there is no apparent CBI mention but
it is only the department which is keen on including the name in the AL as per
some unsubstantiated findings which also ironically do not find mention in the
20.04.2018 report. Similarly, para-2 of the 14.08.2000 circular lays down that
"...Agreed list so prepared shall remain in force for one year...". We find
that no list has been prepared w.r.t the officer in 2016, 2017 or before when
the cause for same of the allegation now being raked up arose. The 20.04.2018
is the first time that the name of the officer is mentioned in the AL and that
too without specification of any complaint or incident which could cast
aspersion on the integrity of the applicant. Thus we are at loss as to how to
give benefit to the respondents' on their plea concerning the circular dated
14.08.2000. On the contrary in the report dated 11.04.2018 some remarks are
made but then the name of the applicant has not been decided to be included in
the AL. The whole argument of taking support of circulars is profoundly vague
and ill-thought off. Para-6 of circular of MHA dated 05.05.1966 is only a
guideline for procedure and in no way exonerates the respondents of
arbitrariness in their decision making process for reasons cited above.
34\. It would be quite appropriate to quote here the ruling of the Hon'ble
Supreme Court in the matter of A.K. Kraipak Vs. Union of India reported in
1969 (2) SCC 262. The Hon'ble Supreme Court has ruled that "......The dividing
line between an administrative power and a quasi-judicial power is quite thin
and is being gradually obliterated. For determining whether a power is an
administrative power of a quasi-judicial power one has to look to the nature
of the power conferred, the person or persons on whom it is conferred, the
frame work of the law conferring that power; the  33 consequences ensuing from
the exercise of that power and the manner in which that power is expected to
be exercised...".
35\. What this implies is that while the Executive had to be reasonable while
exercising its administrative powers in earlier years, but now given the
development over the years, these administrative powers have to be exercised
with increasingly more transparency and judiciousness as if the administrative
powers are akin to quasi-judicial powers. Towards this purpose of the ruling
we find that there is a sudden volte-face in the Reports of the Respondents
between 11.04.2018 and 20.04.2018 regarding Vigilance Clearance for reasons
discussed above. Obviously, therefore this exercise of administrative power is
palpably not judicious in light of above ruling. It has been observed in
various judgments that it is the bounden duty of the executive authority to
follow standards set for its actions by which it professes its actions to be
judged as held in Sukhdev Singh v Bhagatram Sardar Singh Raghuvanshi, (1975) 1
SCC 421 and then again in Dr. Amarjit Singh Ahluwalia v State of Punjab,
(1975) 3 SCC 503.
36\. This implies that if there is a provision for action in a certain way, it
is a duty of the concerned authority to follow it in as clear a manner as
possible beyond the shadow of doubt so that its actions are judged
accordingly.
37\. The executive also has to protect itself from bias and malice. The test
of likelihood of bias which has been applied in a number of cases is based on
the reasonable apprehension of a reasonable man fully cognizant of the facts
[S. Parthasarthi v State of Andhra Pradesh, 1974 (1) SLR 427: 1974 SLJ 286:
AIR 1973 SC 2701: 1973 LabIC 1607: 1974 (1) SCR 697: 1974 (3) SCC 459: 1973
(2) LLJ 473.]  34 In the present case, Respondents have hardly any provable
grounds of judging the Applicant as being corrupt and thereby withhold his
Vigilance Clearance. This, therefore, lends itself to bias and malice in their
action as discussed in earlier paras.
38\. In fact the whole case is a victim of apparent malafide by the
respondents for reasons best known to them, wherein, an officer selected in
2014 that is five years ago is still running from pillar to post; from
tribunal to high court; from department to court and the respondents have
deftly denied justice to him. The Hon'ble High Court in so many orders in
various writs etc have upheld continuously the case of the applicant for
appointment as ITAT member. The Selection Board has twice recommended the case
of the applicant for appointment. The reasons for the alleged initial IB
report regarding marital issues is long settled as per department's own
admission and in spite of all this the appointment of the applicant as ITAT
member is being thwarted time and again.
On the issue of malafide, bias and malice as well as fairness in
administrative action taken together, the Hon'ble Apex Court as well as other
Courts have further ruled and it would be useful to recount the important
rulings here:
> ".....Mala fide-Meaning of- The expression 'mala fide' is not a meaningless
> jargon and it has its proper connotation. Malice or mala fides can only be
> appreciated from the records of the case in the facts of each case. There
> cannot possibly be any set guidelines in regard to the proof of mala fides.
> Mala fides, where it is alleged, depends upon its own facts and
> circumstances. [Probodh Sagar v Punjab State Electricity Board, 2000 (2) SCT
> 829, at p. 833.]...................The test, therefore, is as to whether
> there is a mere apprehension of bias or there is a real danger of bias and
> it is on this score that the surrounding circumstances must and ought to be
> collated and necessary conclusion drawn therefrom. In the event, however,
> the conclusion is otherwise that there is existing a real danger of bias
> administrative action cannot be sustained. If on the other hand, allegations
> pertain to rather fanciful apprehension in administrative action, question
> of declaring them to be unsustainable on the basis therefore would not
> arise.
> It is trite knowledge that bias is included within the attributes and
> broader purview of the word 'malice'.
> Bias admittedly negates fairness and reasonableness by reason of which
> arbitrariness and mala fide motive creep in............................. The
> concept of fairness in administrative action has been the subject matter of
> considerable judicial debate but there is total unanimity on the basic
> element of the concept to the effect that the same is dependent upon  35 the
> facts and circumstances of each matter pending scrutiny before the court and
> no straight jacket formula can be evolved therefor. As a matter fact,
> fairness is synonymous with reasonableness. And on the issue of
> ascertainment of meaning of reasonableness, common English parlance referred
> to as what is in contemplation of an ordinary man of prudence similarly
> placed. It is the appreciation of this common man's perception in its proper
> perspective which would prompt the court to determine the situation as to
> whether the same is otherwise reasonable or not...." [State of Punjab v V.K.
> Khanna, AIR 2001 SC 343: 2000 (Supp.-3) JT 349: 2000 (7) SCALE 731: 2000 (8)
> Supreme 105: 2001 (2) SCC 330: 2000 (5) SLR 734.] Malice - Meaning-Malice
> includes any intent which law deems wrongful- Malice means in law wrongful
> intention. It includes any intent which the law deems wrongful, and which
> therefore serves as a ground of liability. Any act done with such an intent
> is, in the language of the law, malicious, and this legal usage has
> etymology in its favour. The Latin militia means badness, physical or moral-
> wickedness in disposition or in conduct - not specifically or exclusively
> ill-will or malevolence; hence the malice of English law, including all
> forms of evil purpose, design, intent, or motive. But intent is of two
> kinds, being either immediate or ulterior, the ulterior intent being
> commonly distinguished as the motive. The term 'malice' is applied in law to
> both these forms of intent, and the result is a somewhat puzzling ambiguity
> which requires careful notice. When we say that an act is done maliciously,
> we mean one of the two distinct things. We mean either that it is done
> intentionally, or that it is done with some wrongful motive.
> [West Bengal State Electricity Board v Dilip Kumar Ray, AIR 2007 SC 976:
2006 (12) SCC 559: 2007 (1) SCT 385: 2006 (Supp.-9) SCR 554: 2006 (12) SCALE
559: 2007 (2) SLR 814.] Thus, suffice to it say that the Hon'ble Apex Court
and other Courts have ruled in a plethora of judgments that wherever there is
bias, it negates fairness and reasonableness which result in arbitrariness and
malafide coming into play. While, no straight jacket formula is evolvable,
circumstances of the case need to be dwelt upon to settle the matter of an
administrative action being reasonable and without malice. We are at pains to
realize and hopelessly fail to convince from any angle of examination of the
extant circumstances in the present case that the administrative action of
judging the VIGILANCE CLEARANCE position of the Applicant in 09 days from 'No'
to 'Yes' and that to without explanation on the face of record is justifiable.
For various reasons discussed heretofore we find that unexplained bias and
malafide seems to run as a common thread across the facts of this case.
39\. In conclusion, therefore, the averments of the Respondents that (i) they
have unfettered right to include the name of an officer in Yes list in any
manner whatsoever, (ii) keep the complaints pending for inquiry or decision
for any length of time, (iii) include the name of officers without whispering
a word about a complaint  36 or matter of inquiry in the actual report (as in
the case of reports dated 11.04.2018 vs 19.04.2018) and (iv) decide against
the Officer unsubstantiated allegations, seem to be highly unjustifiable due
to utter lack of documents and logic beyond a clear shadow of doubt. The
alleged cases of suspicion on integrity are going abegging for appropriate
evidence and hence they cannot stand on merits whatsoever.
40 In sum, therefore, we find it difficult to uphold the contention of the
respondents that the vigilance status of the applicant has been assessed to be
worthy of being such that it needs to be withheld w.r.t recommendation for
appointment as Member ITAT. Therefore, the relief(s) sought by the applicant
seems justifiable and the initiation and all consequential proceedings of the
respondents' to include the name of the applicant in the agreed list and
thereby not granting vigilance clearance for appointment as ITAT Member is
liable to be quashed. Accordingly, O.A. No. 137 of 2018 and 279 of 2018 both
are allowed and inclusion of the name of the applicant in A.L. and all
consequential proceedings as well as denial of Vigilance Clearance are
quashed. The respondents are directed to forward the name of the applicant to
the appropriate competent authority in view of Hon'ble High Court's order
dated 30.5.2017 passed in Writ petition No. 8648 (SB) of 2017 as affirmed by
the Hon'ble Supreme Court in its order dated 15.11.2017 within a period of two
weeks from the date of receipt of certified copy of this order. There shall be
no order as to costs.
    (Devendra Chaudhry)                                  (Jasmine Ahmed)
    Member (A)                                                Member (J)
    Girish/-
evidence and hence they cannot stand on merits whatsoever.
40 In sum, therefore, we find it difficult to uphold the contention of the
respondents that the vigilance status of the applicant has been assessed to be
worthy of being such that it needs to be withheld w.r.t recommendation for
appointment as Member ITAT. Therefore, the relief(s) sought by the applicant
seems justifiable and the initiation and all consequential proceedings of the
respondents' to include the name of the applicant in the agreed list and
thereby not granting vigilance clearance for appointment as ITAT Member is
liable to be quashed. Accordingly, O.A. No. 137 of 2018 and 279 of 2018 both
are allowed and inclusion of the name of the applicant in A.L. and all
consequential proceedings as well as denial of Vigilance Clearance are
quashed. The respondents are directed to forward the name of the applicant to
the appropriate competent authority in view of Hon'ble High Court's order
dated 30.5.2017 passed in Writ petition No. 8648 (SB) of 2017 as affirmed by
the Hon'ble Supreme Court in its order dated 15.11.2017 within a period of two
weeks from the date of receipt of certified copy of this order. There shall be
    Vigilance, Headquarters-II, New Delhi.
                           Alongwith
    Original Application No. 332/00137/2018
    (Reserved on 6.2.2019)
    Capt. Pramod Kumar Bajaj, S/o Late Shri P. D. Bajaj aged about
    57 years, R/o , 222, M. G. Road, Lucknow
                                                      ....Applicant
    By Advocate: Applicant in person
                                       Versus
    1.   Union of India, through the Chairman CBDT, Department of
         Revenue, Government of India, North       Block,     New
         Delhi-1.
    2.   Union of India through the Secretary, Department of Legal
         Affairs, Government of India, Shastri Bhawan, New
                Delhi-1
                                                    .....Respondents
    By Advocate: Sri Shatrohan Lal
                               ORDER
Per Ms. Jasmine Ahmed, Member (J) The O.A. No. 279 of 2018 was heard on
30.1.2019 while the O.A. No. 137 of 2018 was reserved on 6.2.2019. The
evidence and hence they cannot stand on merits whatsoever.
40 In sum, therefore, we find it difficult to uphold the contention of the
respondents that the vigilance status of the applicant has been assessed to be
worthy of being such that it needs to be withheld w.r.t recommendation for
appointment as Member ITAT. Therefore, the relief(s) sought by the applicant
seems justifiable and the initiation and all consequential proceedings of the
respondents' to include the name of the applicant in the agreed list and
thereby not granting vigilance clearance for appointment as ITAT Member is
liable to be quashed. Accordingly, O.A. No. 137 of 2018 and 279 of 2018 both
are allowed and inclusion of the name of the applicant in A.L. and all
consequential proceedings as well as denial of Vigilance Clearance are
quashed. The respondents are directed to forward the name of the applicant to
the appropriate competent authority in view of Hon'ble High Court's order
dated 30.5.2017 passed in Writ petition No. 8648 (SB) of 2017 as affirmed by
the Hon'ble Supreme Court in its order dated 15.11.2017 within a period of two
weeks from the date of receipt of certified copy of this order. There shall be
    Vigilance, Headquarters-II, New Delhi.
                           Alongwith
    Original Application No. 332/00137/2018
    (Reserved on 6.2.2019)
    Capt. Pramod Kumar Bajaj, S/o Late Shri P. D. Bajaj aged about
    57 years, R/o , 222, M. G. Road, Lucknow
                                                      ....Applicant
    By Advocate: Applicant in person
                                       Versus
    1.   Union of India, through the Chairman CBDT, Department of
         Revenue, Government of India, North       Block,     New
         Delhi-1.
    2.   Union of India through the Secretary, Department of Legal
         Affairs, Government of India, Shastri Bhawan, New
                Delhi-1
                                                    .....Respondents
    By Advocate: Sri Shatrohan Lal
                               ORDER
Per Ms. Jasmine Ahmed, Member (J) The O.A. No. 279 of 2018 was heard on
30.1.2019 while the O.A. No. 137 of 2018 was reserved on 6.2.2019. The
evidence and hence they cannot stand on merits whatsoever.
40 In sum, therefore, we find it difficult to uphold the contention of the
respondents that the vigilance status of the applicant has been assessed to be
worthy of being such that it needs to be withheld w.r.t recommendation for
appointment as Member ITAT. Therefore, the relief(s) sought by the applicant
seems justifiable and the initiation and all consequential proceedings of the
respondents' to include the name of the applicant in the agreed list and
thereby not granting vigilance clearance for appointment as ITAT Member is
liable to be quashed. Accordingly, O.A. No. 137 of 2018 and 279 of 2018 both
are allowed and inclusion of the name of the applicant in A.L. and all
consequential proceedings as well as denial of Vigilance Clearance are
quashed. The respondents are directed to forward the name of the applicant to
the appropriate competent authority in view of Hon'ble High Court's order
dated 30.5.2017 passed in Writ petition No. 8648 (SB) of 2017 as affirmed by
the Hon'ble Supreme Court in its order dated 15.11.2017 within a period of two
weeks from the date of receipt of certified copy of this order. There shall be
    Vigilance, Headquarters-II, New Delhi.
                           Alongwith
    Original Application No. 332/00137/2018
    (Reserved on 6.2.2019)
    Capt. Pramod Kumar Bajaj, S/o Late Shri P. D. Bajaj aged about
    57 years, R/o , 222, M. G. Road, Lucknow
                                                      ....Applicant
    By Advocate: Applicant in person
                                       Versus
    1.   Union of India, through the Chairman CBDT, Department of
         Revenue, Government of India, North       Block,     New
         Delhi-1.
    2.   Union of India through the Secretary, Department of Legal
         Affairs, Government of India, Shastri Bhawan, New
                Delhi-1
                                                    .....Respondents
    By Advocate: Sri Shatrohan Lal
                               ORDER
Per Ms. Jasmine Ahmed, Member (J) The O.A. No. 279 of 2018 was heard on
30.1.2019 while the O.A. No. 137 of 2018 was reserved on 6.2.2019. The
applicant,  2 who was present in person, states that O.A. No. 137 of 2018 may
also be clubbed with O.A. No. 279 of 2018 to which no objection has been
raised by the respondents' counsel. According with the consent of the parties,
a common order is being passed.
2\. The applicant has filed O.A. no. 137 of 2018 seeking relief to quash the
denial of Vigilance Clearance (In short V.C.) dated 20.4.2018 and later the
applicant filed O.A. No. 279 of 2018 praying for quashing of intimation of
proposal and all consequential actions and to include his name in the agreed
list.
3\. The case of the Applicant as argued, in brief, is that the applicant, an
Ex-Army Officer, having come victorious in the Civil Services Examination in
evidence and hence they cannot stand on merits whatsoever.
40 In sum, therefore, we find it difficult to uphold the contention of the
respondents that the vigilance status of the applicant has been assessed to be
worthy of being such that it needs to be withheld w.r.t recommendation for
appointment as Member ITAT. Therefore, the relief(s) sought by the applicant
seems justifiable and the initiation and all consequential proceedings of the
respondents' to include the name of the applicant in the agreed list and
thereby not granting vigilance clearance for appointment as ITAT Member is
liable to be quashed. Accordingly, O.A. No. 137 of 2018 and 279 of 2018 both
are allowed and inclusion of the name of the applicant in A.L. and all
consequential proceedings as well as denial of Vigilance Clearance are
quashed. The respondents are directed to forward the name of the applicant to
the appropriate competent authority in view of Hon'ble High Court's order
dated 30.5.2017 passed in Writ petition No. 8648 (SB) of 2017 as affirmed by
the Hon'ble Supreme Court in its order dated 15.11.2017 within a period of two
weeks from the date of receipt of certified copy of this order. There shall be
    Vigilance, Headquarters-II, New Delhi.
                           Alongwith
    Original Application No. 332/00137/2018
    (Reserved on 6.2.2019)
    Capt. Pramod Kumar Bajaj, S/o Late Shri P. D. Bajaj aged about
    57 years, R/o , 222, M. G. Road, Lucknow
                                                      ....Applicant
    By Advocate: Applicant in person
                                       Versus
    1.   Union of India, through the Chairman CBDT, Department of
         Revenue, Government of India, North       Block,     New
         Delhi-1.
    2.   Union of India through the Secretary, Department of Legal
         Affairs, Government of India, Shastri Bhawan, New
                Delhi-1
                                                    .....Respondents
    By Advocate: Sri Shatrohan Lal
                               ORDER
Per Ms. Jasmine Ahmed, Member (J) The O.A. No. 279 of 2018 was heard on
30.1.2019 while the O.A. No. 137 of 2018 was reserved on 6.2.2019. The
applicant,  2 who was present in person, states that O.A. No. 137 of 2018 may
also be clubbed with O.A. No. 279 of 2018 to which no objection has been
raised by the respondents' counsel. According with the consent of the parties,
a common order is being passed.
2\. The applicant has filed O.A. no. 137 of 2018 seeking relief to quash the
denial of Vigilance Clearance (In short V.C.) dated 20.4.2018 and later the
applicant filed O.A. No. 279 of 2018 praying for quashing of intimation of
proposal and all consequential actions and to include his name in the agreed
list.
3\. The case of the Applicant as argued, in brief, is that the applicant, an
Ex-Army Officer, having come victorious in the Civil Services Examination in
evidence and hence they cannot stand on merits whatsoever.
40 In sum, therefore, we find it difficult to uphold the contention of the
respondents that the vigilance status of the applicant has been assessed to be
worthy of being such that it needs to be withheld w.r.t recommendation for
appointment as Member ITAT. Therefore, the relief(s) sought by the applicant
seems justifiable and the initiation and all consequential proceedings of the
respondents' to include the name of the applicant in the agreed list and
thereby not granting vigilance clearance for appointment as ITAT Member is
liable to be quashed. Accordingly, O.A. No. 137 of 2018 and 279 of 2018 both
are allowed and inclusion of the name of the applicant in A.L. and all
consequential proceedings as well as denial of Vigilance Clearance are
quashed. The respondents are directed to forward the name of the applicant to
the appropriate competent authority in view of Hon'ble High Court's order
dated 30.5.2017 passed in Writ petition No. 8648 (SB) of 2017 as affirmed by
the Hon'ble Supreme Court in its order dated 15.11.2017 within a period of two
weeks from the date of receipt of certified copy of this order. There shall be
