Income Tax Appellate Tribunal - Delhi
Mr. Sunil Goyal, Noida vs Ito, New Delhi on 26 November, 2019
                                                                            ITA No.- 719/Del/2010
                                                                                  Shri Sunil Goyal.
                  IN THE INCOME TAX APPELLATE TRIBUNAL
                       (DELHI BENCH: 'G': NEW DELHI)
             BEFORE SHRI AMIT SHUKLA, JUDICIAL MEMBER
                                AND
          SHRI ANADEE NATH MISSHRA, ACCOUNTANT MEMBER
                         ITA No:- 719/Del/2010
                       (Assessment Year: 2006-07)
       Shri Sunil Goyal,           Income Tax Officer,
       B-50, Sector-14,       Vs. Ward 5(4),
       Noida, U.P.                 New Delhi.
       PAN No:       AAAPG6445M
       APPELLANT                   RESPONDENT
                  Assessee by                 : Shri R. Santhanam, Adv. and
                                                Shri Deepak Ostwal, CA and
                                                Shri Rishabh Ostwal, Adv
                  Revenue by                  : Shri Saras Kumar, Sr. DR
      1.   Appellant
      2.   Respondent
      3.   CIT
      4.   CIT(Appeals)
      5.   DR: ITAT
                                               ASSISTANT REGISTRAR
                                                     ITAT NEW DELHI
           Date of dictation
                               Page 41 of 42
                                                          ITA No.- 719/Del/2010
                                                               Shri Sunil Goyal.
Date on which the typed draft is placed before the dictating Member Date on
which the typed draft is placed before the Other Member Date on which the
approved draft comes to the Sr. PS/PS Date on which the fair order is placed
before the Dictating Member for pronouncement Date on which the fair order
comes back to the Sr. PS/PS Date on which the final order is uploaded on the
                  Revenue by                  : Shri Saras Kumar, Sr. DR
    Per Anadee Nath Misshra, AM
    (A)     This appeal has been filed by Assessee against the impugned appellate
order dated 29.01.2010 passed by Learned Commissioner of Income Tax
(Appeals)-VIII, New Delhi, ["Ld. CIT(A)",for short] pertaining to Assessment
Year 2006-07, on the following grounds:
> "1. On the facts and in the circumstances of the case the CIT(A) has erred
> both on facts and in law in upholding the impugned illegal order of the ITO
> dated 31.12.2008 instead of vacating the same and the impugned orders cannot
> be sustained.
> 2\. The CIT(A) had conducted hearing till 06.15 PM on 29.1.2010 and the
> impugned order could not have been passed by him on the same day  Page 1 of
> 42 ITA No.- 719/Del/2010 Shri Sunil Goyal.
and the impugned order appears to have already been prepared and kept ready
and the various factual and legal submissions contained in the submissions
with case law filed on 27.1.2010 and explained on 29.1.2010 from 3.00 PM to
6.15 PM had been altogether disregarded and all the binding decisions of the
Supreme Court and the High Courts referred to and relied upon by the appellant
had not been followed and hence the impugned order is totally unsustainable
and unauthorised both on facts and in law.
3\. The respondent passed the illegal order of assessment dated 31.12.2008 in
clear violation of natural justice as no show cause notice and no effective
opportunity of personal hearing in regard to the proposed addition under the
head 'Business' and enhancement of the tax liability by splitting the
consideration for transfer of shares , reflected in the impugned order had not
been given earlier to the assessee to indicate what is the case of the
department which the assessee was required to meet and inspite of the flagrant
violation of natural justice having been pointed out and explained before the
CIT(A) he has disregarded the same to confirm the impugned illegal order
instead of annulling / vacating the same, which cannot be justified both on
facts and in law and the impugned orders be quashed.
4\. The lower authorities have misled themselves by mis-interpreting the
contract and re-writing the terms thereof to shift the capital gain derived by
the assessee for taxing the same as income from business inspite of there
being no business whatsoever carried on by the assessee and no liability to
tax attracted under sections 28 to 44D of the I.T.Act and also by ignoring the
fact that section 28(va) of the I.T.Act has no application at all in the facts
and circumstances of the case.
5\. The authorities below have erred in attempting to justify their illegal
action and also the hostile discrimination of the appellant vis-a-vis other
shareholders who had also transferred their shares held as capital asset and
at the same price which had been duly accepted in their cases and the revenue
cannot discriminate between one shareholder and another in regard to
transactions for transfer of shares under the same agreement simultaneously by
all of them.
6\. The authorities below have erred in ignoring the fact that the onus of
proof is squarely on the revenue to prove what is apparent is not real and
such onus had not been discharged by the revenue in this case and hence the
assessee's pleas, records, documents submissions and transactions cannot be
disregarded or modified unilaterally by the revenue to create artificial
business income when no business whatsoever has been carried on by the
appellant who is only an employee-cum-shareholder and not doing any business
whatsoever.
7\. The authorities below have erred in imagining a business and attributing
income thereto which the assessee had neither carried on nor  Page 2 of 42 ITA
No.- 719/Del/2010 Shri Sunil Goyal.
derived and no jurisdiction is vested in the lower authorities to shift and
split the consideration for transfer of shares held as capital asset as
business income and sections 14 and 45 do not empower the revenue to do so.
8\. The lower authorities have erred in passing the impugned illegal orders in
clear disregard of the binding statutory provisions and the various judgements
of the Supreme Court and the High Courts brought to their notice and the
impugned orders perversely and vexatiously passed cannot be sustained both on
facts and in law.
9\. The First appellate authority as well as the ITO had erred in adopting a
revenue bias and prejudiced approach to reach erroneous conclusions contrary
to the statutory mandate in regard to different heads of income and
computation of income thereunder which they cannot change according to their
whims to raise illegal demands by imposing higher rate of tax of 30% on
assumed business income as against long term capital gain rightly shown by the
assessee and tax paid @ 20% thereon.
10\. The entire disputed illegal demand of tax and interest as well as penalty
attributable to the perverse change in the head of income and rate of tax
resorted to by the revenue is arbitrary and unauthorised by law and hence
liable to be quashed in this appeal."
(A.1) During the appellate proceedings in Income Tax Appellate Tribunal
("ITAT", for short), the assessee summarized the aforesaid grounds of appeal
into concise grounds of appeal, which are reproduced as under:
> "1. On the facts and in the circumstances of the case the CIT(A) has erred
> both on facts and in law in upholding the impugned illegal order of the ITO
> dated 31.12.2008 and the entire disputed illegal demand of tax and interest
> as well as penalty attributable to the perverse change in the head of income
> and rate of tax resorted to by the revenue is arbitrary and unauthorised by
> law and hence liable to be quashed in this appeal.
> 2\. The CIT(A) had conducted hearing till 06.15 PM on 29.1.2010 and the
> impugned order could not have been passed by him on the same day and the
> impugned order appears to have already been prepared and kept ready and the
> various factual and legal submissions contained in the submissions with case
> law filed on 27.1.2010 and explained on 29.1.2010 from 3.00 PM to 6.15 PM
> had been altogether disregarded and all the binding decisions of the Supreme
> Court and the High Courts referred to and  Page 3 of 42 ITA No.-
> 719/Del/2010 Shri Sunil Goyal.
> relied upon by the appellant had not been followed and hence the impugned
> order is totally unsustainable and unauthorised both on facts and in law.
> 3\. The respondent passed the illegal order of assessment dated 31.12.2008
> in dear violation of natural justice without issuing show cause notice and
> effective opportunity of personal hearing and without discharging onus to
> prove that what is apparent is not real.
> 4\. The lower authorities have misled themselves by misinterpreting the
> contract to shift the capital gain derived by the assessee for taxing the
> same as income from business inspite of there being no business whatsoever
> carried on by the assessee and ho liability to tax attracted under sec .ions
> 28 to 44D of the I.T.Act and also by ignoring the fact that section 28(va)
> of the I.T.Act has no application at all in the facts and circumstances of
> the case.
> 5\. The authorities below have erred in attempting to justify their illegal
> action and also the hostile discrimination of the appellant vis-a-vis other
> shareholders who had also transferred their shares held as capital asset
> and- at the same price which had been duly accepted in their cases and the
> revenue cannot discriminate between one shareholder and another in regard to
> transactions for transfer of shares under the same agreement simultaneously
> by all of them.
> 6\. The authorities below have erred in imagining a business and in adopting
> a revenue bias and prejudiced approach to reach erroneous conclusions
> contrary to the statutory mandate in regard to different heads of income and
> computation of income there under which they cannot change according to
> their whims to raise illegal demands by imposing higher rate of tax of 30%
> on assumed business income as against long term capital gain rightly shown
> by the assessee and tax paid @ 20% thereon."
(B) Assessment Order under Section 143(3) of Income Tax Act, 1961 ("I.T. Act",
for short) was passed on 31.12.2008. In this Assessment Order income amounting
to Rs. 1,32,11,569/- offered by the assessee in the return of income as long
term capital gain was split into two parts by the Assessing Officer ("AO", for
short). In respect of the first part, amounting to Rs. 17,92,544/-, the AO
accepted the assessee's claim for long term capital gain. An assessed
correspondence amount to Rs. 17,10,906/- as long term capital gain by allowing
index cost of Rs. 81,638/-.
Page 4 of 42
ITA No.- 719/Del/2010 Shri Sunil Goyal.
However, the remaining amount of Rs. 1,15,00,663/- was assessed as income of
business or profession. Relevant portion of the Assessment Order dated
31.12.2008 is reproduced as under:
> "3. During the course of assessment proceedings, it was observed that the
> assessee has claimed the following and the same are being dealt with
> separately as discussed on the basis of facts and material on record.
Page 5 of 42
> ITA No.- 719/Del/2010 Shri Sunil Goyal.
Page 6 of 42
> ITA No.- 719/Del/2010 Shri Sunil Goyal.
Page 7 of 42
> ITA No.- 719/Del/2010 Shri Sunil Goyal.
Page 8 of 42
> ITA No.- 719/Del/2010 Shri Sunil Goyal.
(C) The Assessee filed appeal before the Ld. CIT(A). Vide impugned appellate
order dated 29.01.2010 of Ld. CIT(A) confirmed the action of the AO on this
point. The relevant portion of order dated 29.01.2010 of Ld. CIT(A) is
reproduced as under:
> "2. The first issue which falls for consideration relates to an addition of
> Rs 1,15,00,663/- made by the AO treating part of consideration of Rs
> {.,32,11,569 received by the appellant during the year under consideration
> as a result of sale of 24800 shares of M/s Momentum India (P) Ltd, 2.1
> Briefly stated, the facts of the case are that "Shri.Sunil Goyal, the
> appellant is a technically qualified .person and has lot' of expertise ami
> experience at Ms conimand.Thereforein 'order to accomplish/realize his
> dreams, he alongwith his associates namely, Shri Pankaj Aggarwal & Sliri
> Pramod Saint (all the three persons referred to as Management Vendors in the
> future references) promoted a company known as M/s Momentum India (P) Ltd
> (MIPL) in short and in terms of share holders V agreement dated 01-04-2000,
> he was granted 9900 shares of the said, company. Thereafter, in due course
> more shares were acquired by him as bonus shares and at the time of
> agreement with M/ S Newell & Budge Holdings Ltd (N & B), Edinburgh,UK he was
> holding 248000 shares of MIPL.
> 2.1.1 Apart front being share holder, he was also in the employment of the
> company and was closely associated/engaged in the software development,
> which was the main, probably only, activity of MIPL.
> 2.1.2 As mentioned earlier, on 21-10-2004, the assessee alongwith other
> associates entered into an agreement with M/s Newell & Page 9 of 42 ITA No.-
> 719/Del/2010 Shri Sunil Goyal.
> Budge Holdings Ltd, wherein apart from the management vendors, namely, the
> appellant Shri Pankaj Aggarwal & Shri Pramod Saini, Citi Corp Finance
> (India) Ltd was also a party in the capacity of financial vendor.
> 2.1.3 As per the terms and conditions set out in the agreement the appellant
> sold his entire holding of 248000 shares to M/s Newell & Budge Holding Ltd
> which were transferred to the buyer in two installments i.e. 223200 shares
> in F.Y.2004-05 assessable in assessment year 2005-06 and balance 24800
> shares in F.Y.2005- 06 which are subject matter of present appeal. As per
> the agreement while the sale price of 223200 shares sold in the F.Y.2004-0S
> was fixed at Rs 72.28 per share, the sale price of 24800 shares was
> determined at Rs 536,02 per share. However, the sale price of Rs 536.02 per
> share was subject to fulfillment of certain conditions/observance of certain
> restrictions placed on the appellant assessee, discussion of which will be
> made at appropriate stage in this order.
> 2.1.4 As regards shares sold by the appellant during the F.Y.2004-05, the
> sale consideration was disclosed by him as capital gains and the same was
> accepted by the department. In the year under consideration also the
> assessee disclosed the entire consideration of Rs 1,32,11,569/- as capital
> gains only. However, this time the Ld.AO disagreed with the appellant and
> instead of accepting the entire sum of Rs 1,32,11,569. he accepted only a
> sum of Rs 17,10,906/- calculated at the rate of Rs 72.28 per share as in the
> last year as capital gains and balance of Rs 1,15,00,663/- was treated by
> him as income from business or profession in terms of section 28(va) of the
> Act.
2.2 For the sake of convenience, the findings recorded by the Ld.AO in this
regard are being extracted as below -
3\. Long term capital gains from sale of shares of M/s Momentum India Pvt
Ltd:-
During the relevant previous year, the assessee has sold 24800 shares of M/s
Momentum India Pvt Ltd (MIPL). These shares have been sold at price of Rs
536.02. The total consideration received by the assessee is shown at Rs
1,32,93,207/-. On this sale consideration the assessee has shown capital gain
of Rs 132,11,569/-, This amount has has been offered to tax at the applicable
rate.
Page 10 of 42
ITA No.- 719/Del/2010 Shri Sunil Goyal.
3.1 The assessee was asked to furnish the details regarding the sale of these
shares to M/s Newell Sc Budge Holdings Ltd (N & B Holdings Ltd), Edinburgh,
UK. In the previous year 200-06. The assessee has filed the sale and purchase
agreement among M/s Newell & Budge Holdings Ltd and the share holders of M/s
Momentum India Pvt Ltd. This agreement relates to the, sale and purchase of
the entire issued share capital of Momentum India Pvt Ltd. The agreement is
dated 21/10/2004 and it is signed by the assessee alongwith the purchaser,
financial vendor and the management vendors. As per this agreement, the
assessee has agreed to sell his entire share holding of 248000 shares held by
him in MIPL alongwith other key persons namely Sh.Pankaj Aggarwal and Sh,
Pratnod Saini. The agreement also specifies the consideration (Para 3.1 to
3.10), details regarding conduct of business (Para 6.1 to 6.5) and warranties
and undertakings by the vendors (Para 7.1to7.13). The agreement also discusses
in details regarding the protection of goodwill (Para 10.1 to 10.13). It is
specifically stated in the agreement that no modification or alteration shall
be enforceable except by an agreement in writing duly executed by all the
party. Schedule 1A and IB to the agreement give the details of the share
capital, directors of MIPL and schedule of payment to the assessee and other
key persons called (management vendors'.
3.2 Consequent to the above agreement, the assessee has received the payments.
Most of . the payments have been received in financial year 2004-
05\. Total no. of shares sold by the assessee in F.Y. 2004*05 is 223200, This
is 90% of the total share holding of the assessee. These .shares have been
sold at the rate of Rs 72,28/-per share. Total consideration received has been
shown Rs 1,61,32,896/-(2232O0 x 72.28). The assessee has computed and shown
capital gains on the above sales consideration in the A.Y 2005-06.
3.3 In the current A.Y i.e. 2006-07, the assessee has however shown sale price
per share at Rs 536.02/, viz 2004-05 & 2005-06. This is in spite of the fact
that the original agreement .as discussed in Para 3.2 above, was a single
agreement, related to the sale of entire share capital of MIPL and did not
allow any alteration/modification without any further agreement in writing
executed by all parties ( no such subsequent agreement has been furnished by
the assessee). Therefore, the transaction value per share should have been
uniform, even if the payments were spread over a two financial period.
3.4 Here is pertinent to discuss the skill level, technical expertise and the
role of the assessee in the affairs of M/s Momentum India Pvt Ltd (the company
whose shares were sold). The assessee is a key director of MIPL. He has
started the company along with two other persons namely Sh. Pankaj Aggarwal &
Shri Pramod Saini (all three referred to as management vendors in the sale
purchase agreement.
3.5 Vide, shareholders agreement dated 01/04/20 the assessee was granted  Page
11 of 42 ITA No.- 719/Del/2010 Shri Sunil Goyal.
9920 shares of MIPL. The remaining shares were acquired by way of Bonus
shares. Some debentures were also converted into equity shares and as on
28/5/2005, the total no. of shares held by the assessee were 248000. All these
shares have been sold by the assessee to M/s N & B Holdings Ltd, UK. The main
purpose of stalling the company was to develop software products and to
provide consultancy in this regard. The primary purposes of the company have
been stated as to undertake software consultancy and services for export
market, internet and internet based training, Multimedia based training,
development of websites and. multimedia based titles etc. The shareholders
agreement dated 01/04/200 makes it amply clear that the enterprises is a
closely held company with complete control in the hands of three persons
(management Vendors) including the assessee.
Further, reference to the sale purchase agreement entered in between M/s N & B
Holdings Ltd and M/s MIPL, clearly brings out the fact that this agreement has
to be implemented as one document and there is no scope for enhanced rate
payment in respect of the shareholdings of the assessee and other management
vendors. Para 22.1 of the agreement states under-
" 22.1: This agreement, the disclosure letter and the other documents to be
delivered at completion in accordance with Part 2B of the schedule contain the
entire agreement between the parties or any of them with respect to the
transactions contemplated in this agreement and shall ( save where there has
been a fraudulent misrepresentation) supersede all prior proposals,
representations, agreements and negotiations relating thereto whether written,
oral or implied, between the parties or any of them or their respective
advisers pr any of them and no modification or alteration of this agreement
shall be enforceable except by an amendment in writing duly executed by all
the parties hereto or, in the case of a waiver, duly executed by the party
waiving compliance",(No subsequent agreement has been furnished).
3.7 Considering the facts discussed above, it is amply clear that the assessee
is one of the key person who is in the overall management control of M/s MIPL.
He has acquired the shares of MIPL without making any substantial payment and
on the basis of his technical and management expertise. The sale of his shares
in MIPL was initially made at the rate of Rs 72,28/- per share in the FY
2004-05. However, the sale price per share has been increased to Rs 536.02/-
in the FY 2005-06. This is in spite of the fact that the same agreement forms
the basis of the sale of all the shares held by the assessee. Therefore, the
only conclusion that could be drawn is that the excess amount of Rs
463,74/-(536.02- 72.28) per share received by the assessee is on account of
the technical expertise of the assessee in the field of software development.
This amount has been received for not carrying out activities in relation to
the business of MIPL and for not sharing know - how, copyright, patent or any
other business or commercial right of similar nature or . information or
technique/technology related to the softwares  Page 12 of 42 ITA No.-
719/Del/2010 Shri Sunil Goyal.
tools being developed by MIPL. Effectively, the excess payment of Rs 463.74/-
made to the assessee by N& B Holdings Ltd, is to restrain the assessee from
indulging in competition or sharing information with business rivals. Hence,
this consideration is chargeable to Income Tax under the head "Profits & Gains
of Business or Profession' as per the provision of section 28(va) of the IT
Act, 1961".
2.3 Being aggrieved by the aforesaid action of the AO, the assessee is in
present appeal.
3\. In the course of appellate proceedings Ld. Counsel appearing on behalf of
the appellant have vehemently argued and submitted that the action of the AO
is not sustainable either on facts or in law. The case of the Ld. Counsels is
that the law does not give any power to the AO to either tinker with the
consideration declared by the assessee or to change the nature of a particular
receipt declared by him. It is submitted by the Ld. counsels that the IAAO has
totally ignored the fact that apart from management vendors, there were other
share holders also like Citi Bank etc who were also paid the identical sale
consideration and therefore, the conditions placed on the appellant and other
management vendors were of no consequence so far as the taxability of
consideration is concerned.
As regards applicability of provisions of section 28(va) of the Act, the case
of the Ld. counsels is that the action of the AO in so far as he wanted to
split the consideration in two parts, i.e. capital gains and business income
was not in accordance with the law. The Ld. counsels further submit that the
conditions/restrictions placed on the management vendors were only with a view
to ensure that the business to be conducted by M/s Newell & Budge Holdings Ltd
should not get affected in the initial years of take over and it should rest
at that and no further reading into the clauses of agreements is required. In
furtherance of these arguments, the Ld. counsels have also made detailed
written arguments as under-
> ' Arguments of Assessing Officer Rebuffed
> 1\. The basic assumption of Ld. A.O. that as per the agreement, it could
> have been amended only by a subsequent agreement is contrary to record. Para
> 22 of the agreement (reproduced at page 5 of Assessment order) clearly
> provides that an amendment in writing can be introduced in the agreement.
> There had been a gross misinterpretation of the agreement by Ld. A.O. in
> this regard.
> 2\. There is nothing in the agreement which say that transaction value of
> the shares sold in all parts' shall be same, as assumed by Ld. A.O. On the
> contrary the agreement clearly provides that value of 14,57,322 shares
> initial shares (to be transferred in A.Y. 2005 - 06) shall be GBP 14,00,000
> (please refer part IB and 9 of the schedule to the agreement) translating
> into price of GBP .96 per share whereas for 45000 shares each (including
> 6200 shares each of the assessee) to  Page 13 of 42 ITA No.- 719/Del/2010
> Shri Sunil Goyal.
be transferred in first and second part after initial shares (please refer
part IB and 9 of the schedule to the agreement) consideration was fixed at GBP
3,00,000 each (please refer definitions of First Additional Consideration and
second Additional Consideration in part 7 of the schedule) translating into
price of GBP 6.67 per share. Similarly, Part 7 and 8 of the schedule to the
agreement also prescribes the method of computation of consideration for other
parts of shares in MIPL totaling 76000 shares including 12,400 of the
assessee. The consideration could have varied from "0" to GBP 5,50,000 or
maximum up to GBP 7.24per share.
3\. There is no clause in the agreement which prescribes that consideration
can not be enhanced and the order of Ld. A.O. is again factually incorrect in
this regard.
4\. In any case and without prejudice to above, it is a fact that the assessee
has sold all the impugned shares at Rs. 536.02 per share - a clear and
unambiguous and undisputed fact. As far as income tax liability is concerned
the same had to be worked out on the basis of consideration received and cost
of acquisition. Even if presumed that some term of the agreement was not
complied with, it does not change the character of the income. If the assessee
has sold a capital asset then if at all some terms agreed between the parties
was not complied with or the parties did not adhere to the time schedule, it
does not follow that nature of income earned would change. The resultant
income remains the same- capital gain in the instant case. Thus, the reasoning
of Ld. A.O. regarding uniform transaction value and non-amendment of the
agreement is not only factually incorrect but also irrelevant.
5\. Coming to the main argument of Ld. A.O. that difference in the
consideration per share for shares transferred in different years is on
account of his technical expertise in the field of software development and
thus, chargeable u/s 28 (va) of the Act, there is nothing of such sort
mentioned in the agreement. It is correct that the assessee had been able to
command high price for part of his shares due to the fact that his association
with MIPL as an employee would have increased its profits and, hence, share
price. But it does not follow from it that resultant rise in price is taxable
u/s 28 (va), Ld. A.O. seems to have been confused between capacity' of the
assessee as share holder and as an employee. If an employee works hard and
makes his company earn more, in turn, increasing value of his shares held in
the company then the same does not become business gain or salary. For his
services, employee is getting the salary and enhanced value of shares is a
capital gain for holding a capital asset, in this case shares of the company.
Going by the logic of Ld. A.O. sale of every ESOP by an employee would be
Business Profit and not capital gains which is not so.
6\. In any case section 28 (va) deals with entirely different subject  Page 14
of 42 ITA No.- 719/Del/2010 Shri Sunil Goyal.
matter viz. any sum received/ receivable under an agreement for "not carrying
out any activity in relation to any business" or not sharing any know-how,
patents, copyrights, any other commercial or business rights of similar
nature, etc. In present case, there is no mention of any such payment in the
agreement.
7\. Further, if the approach adopted by Ld. A.O. is upheld then it means that
when the assessee sold its shares for Rs. 72.28 per share, there was no
element of consideration for technical expertise of the assessee in it and
that too when these shares accounted for 90% of the total shares. It also
follows that if the assessee would have transferred only 90 % of his holding
to the N & B, he was not bound by the alleged non-compete clause since there
is no consideration for it in Rs. 72.28 as per Ld. A.O. It would be complete
misinterpretation of the agreement.
8\. It may please be appreciated that any benefit that had, is being or will
accrue to the company would be reflected in the prices of its shares. The
price of the impugned shares has been fixed on basis of such conditions only
that contemplates the higher price due to high future earning capacity. For
the purchase of 12,400 shares mentioned in Para 3.3 and 3.4, it was necessary
for the assessee to be in employment of MIPL Naturally, it was decided by N &
B that if the assessee continues on the roll of -MIPL, he will be able to
bring in further value to the company. This fact is a matter of record and is
very well accepted by the assessing officer also in Ms order also that the
assessee had added very significant values to the, company and he is one of
the key persons in the overall management control of MIPL Thus, N & B offered
high rate for the remaining shares. Similarly it may please be seen that
higher rates for other part of shareholding were also based on better
performance of the company in the forthcoming period. Therefore, even the
commercial logical of the higher price is also explicit though the parties are
free to determine their own commercial terms whatsoever.
9\. There is no dispute regarding the fact that the subject matter of the
agreement is only the transfer of shares. The only capital asset that has been
transferred is the shares. The consideration stipulated in the agreement is
against such shares only. That being so, there is no question of any gains
other that capital gain on sale of these shares.
10\. The only consideration stipulated in the agreement is against the sale of
the shares. Nowhere is any mention in the agreement that the consideration is
for any thing other than shares.
11\. There Is a mention of term "management vendor" in the agreement which
simply implies that the individual sellers (including the assessee) were also
in the control of the affairs of the company.
Page 15 of 42
ITA No.- 719/Del/2010 Shri Sunil Goyal.
This is a normal right attached to shareholding. In any case, no consideration
has been paid for such right separately. And further, in any case, even
transfer of management rights would have also attracted capital gains only.
Thus, viewed from any angle, the transaction would have resulted in capital
gain only.
12\. The increase in price for the impugned shares is only due to the
different mechanism of calculation adopted in the agreement.
13\. The capital gain on the sale of impugned shares has been duly disclosed
in Return by the assessee.
14\. An agreement has to be read in its entirety. The net result of the
agreement is that shares have exchanged hands for a consideration subject to
terms and conditions fixed between parties. If a part of the consideration is
taxable in one year and other in another year or if there is some difference
in consideration for different .parts of shares, then it does not follow that
they are separate and are not part of same agreement or have separate nature.
In present case, there is a transfer of assets and there is a consideration
for it. There is no consideration for any other thing.
15\. It is the prerogative of the assessee and parties to commercial
agreements to decide their terms and consideration. Unless there is specific
enumeration in the law that a particular consideration shall be treated in a
particular manner, the will and intention of the parties shall prevail. For
different parts pricing can be done differently by the parties.
16\. Your good self would kindly appreciate that it is also trite law that
apparent shall not to be disturbed unless there is evidence for proving beyond
doubts that apparent is not real. Mere surmises are not sufficient to assume
that apparent is not real.
17\. In the present case there is not even single evidence on record by which
it can be even presumed that consideration had been paid for any thing other
than shares.
18\. There is no where any mention in any of the agreement which even remotely
suggests that payment is for any thing other than for shares.
19\. It has been himself mentioned by Ld. AO that in tax law there is no
equity. Nothing can be read into and nothing is to be implied. But very
approach of Ld. AO in the case is to presume the facts.
20\. There is mention of by Ld, AO that he is empowered to go behind apparent
and look into real. Indeed so, but then the onus to prove  Page 16 of 42 ITA
No.- 719/Del/2010 Shri Sunil Goyal.
that apparent is not real would be upon AO only. In present case, there is
nothing on record which says that any payment has been made for not carrying
any activity in relation to business or for not sharing any IPR, It is mere
and pure assumption.
21\. There is mention of by Ld. AO of colorable device being used. But Ld.
A.O, had failed to prove what colorable device has been used and how. It is a
bald allegation without basis and substance. Here the subject matter is an
agreement between a Non resident third party and share holders of an Indian
company including a reputed* financial vendor. The agreement has been subject
to scrutiny by RBI and FEMA authorities and has been executed only after
obtaining their pettnission. There is not an iota of evidence for allegation
of Ld. A.O, that payment has been received for not carrying any activity in
relation to business or for not sharing any IPR, In such circumstances, how
the agreements specifically approved by Enforcement Authorities like RBI can
be said to be a colorable device. It is just a pure bald allegation.
Similarly, observation of Ld. AO regarding letter dt. 10.11.2004 of N & B
forwarding the amendments in agreements follows from his misunderstanding that
.agreement could not have been amended leading him to conclude that a third
party evidence is manipulated. No doubt that transaction has been completed
before schedule, but it does not follow ftom it that documents are
manipulated. In fact, this supports the genuineness of the document since in
actual, the transaction ' was completed before schedule and if assessee was to
file any manipulated document, he would have filed such documents which match
with what had been actually done. In any case, completion of a transaction
before schedule does not mean that agreement is manipulated.
There is one point in the agreement which says like this that if there is a
change in the management/ shareholding of N&B, then the entire share left
(with the management vendor) will be sold in that particular year of such
change Since the N&B was taken over by Sopra group in the FY 2005-06,
henceforth the entire shareholding left by the vendor was taken by sopra group
in FY 2005-06 so the payment was received in the same year.
22\. Ld, A.O, has mis-appreciated the fact in stating that consideration
received varies from the consideration worked out in revised part IB. It may
please be seen that consideration in part IB are only tentative and qualified
and secondly that consideration is in GBP and there would always be foreign
exchange value differences. In revised schedule, exchange rate has been
presumed at 82.3 Rs/ GBP whereas  Page 17 of 42 ITA No.- 719/Del/2010 Shri
Sunil Goyal.
actual rate would certainly differ. However, what is undisputed fact is that
assessee has received Rs. 536.02 per share for impugned shares sold.
23\. Similarly, if consideration actually received differs slightly from
agreement, then it does not follow that agreement is manipulated. In any case,
the tax has to be levied on foil value of consideration received less cost of
acquisition and any change in consideration does not alter character of income
the least.
Thus, action of Ld, AO in altering the character of income is neither here nor
there and it is prayed that the said action may please be set at naught".
\- Letter filed on 6-11 -
2009
1\. The issue in dispute relates to the action of the ITO by which he has
reduced the actual consideration for the shares sold by the assessee and the
amount so reduced has been treated as business profits of the assessee under
section 28. It is submitted that no power is vested in the AO to increase or
decrease the actual consideration for transfer of capital asset subjected to
capital gains tax as held by the Supreme Court in CIT Vs Shivakani Co. Pvt Ltd
(1986) 159 ITR 71 SC and K.P.Varghese Vs.ITO cannot tinker with or enhance the
liability to capital gains tax on the ground of under statement of
consideration by the assessee. For the very same reasons and law laid down by
the Supreme Court in the above cases, it is not permissible for the AO even to
reduce the actual consideration for the transfer of shares held as capital
asset and treat the amount so reduced as business profit and such illegal
action of the revenue cannot be sustained both on facts and in law.
2\. The appellant is one of the shareholders and the shares have been sold at
the very same rate at which others had also sold and therefore there cannot be
differential or discriminatory treatment to the assessee by the revenue as may
be seen from the fact that in the case of other share holders like Citi Bank
i.e. Non-employee shareholders, the same consideration has been accepted by
the revenue as correct consideration and tax has been levied accordingly on
them as per their respective returns. Therefore the stand of the revenue
against the appellant is clearly unsustainable both on facts and in law.
3\. The AO in the above case wanted to split the consideration of shares sold,
in two parts, one is the consideration, and second is  Page 18 of 42 ITA No.-
719/Del/2010 Shri Sunil Goyal.
business income taxable u/s 28(va), on the ground, that the employee share
holders; were required to stay in the company for at least two years and only
because of this clause the AO drawn the interference, but the same is not
correct, disregarding the fact the director/ employee shareholders but was for
all the share holders. There was no discrimination under the contract for all
the share holders. It is only ITO who wants to make such unlawful
discrimination not permissible in law. It was the fact, that the price of
share will increase because of stay of particular employees those who were
involved in the completion of particular project for which they were paid the
^ Salary, But the price of shares, which was in fact, was increased for all
the share holders ' whereas no salary was paid, to other share holders,
4\. Thus increased, price per share to the employee/director shareholders and
other share holders were paid for their holdings not for any other reason. And
sum paid to the employee directors on account of their employment was in the
form of salary and which was declared correctly in the return of income filed
and tax was paid accordingly. Hence the correct interpretation to the entire
agreement is: if, the persons involved into the development of particular work
will stay in to the company for more two years the company will earn the
profit and the earning per share will go up, which will lead to increase in
the price per share not only of employee share holders but of all the shares
of all the si tare holders irrespective of their employment. If the same
employees will not stay into that software company, the company will be
compelled to employ other employees, may lead to extra cost or non completion
of work which may lead to loss to the company, and accordingly the price share
may come down.
5\. Further to understand the price per share it is very important, especially
in case of a software company, the price of share is very much dependent or
have direct relation with the earnings of the company and earnings are very
much influenced by the man power of that company so as to increase the profits
of that company and ultimately the price of share of all the share holders.
Therefore it was it obvious that if the man power will stay with company
profits will increase and accordingly price of shares of all the shareholders
will increase with no discrimination i.e. not only of the employee share
holders but of all the shareholders those who have invested their fund as
venture capital in to a software company to earn, the profit from investment
in to that company. The case of Satyam Computers is with us to understand the
importance of the employees.
6\. Further the profits from the sale of shares at the same price by
Investment Company how it was treated by Income Tax  Page 19 of 42 ITA No.-
719/Del/2010 Shri Sunil Goyal.
Department i.e. whether it was a capital gains or as business profit is all
depend on various factors as provider under Income Tax Act and the business of
that company. A flat or land sold by DLP is treated as a part of the turnover
but flat sold by an individual may/cannot be considered as business income,
and same way if anybody holding shares as stock in trade then it is business
income and if as an investment it is certainly capital gain which is further
to be divided in to two parts one is short term and other is long term
depending on the period of holding of a capital asset/share.
7\. Therefore the order passed by the AO cannot be sustained/upheld.
It is prayed accordingly.
-summary of arguments filed vide letter dated 29-01 -2010 
4\. I have given a careful thought to the submissions and arguments made on
behalf of the appellant and have also gone through findings recorded by the
Ld.AO. On consideration, I find that the issue involved here essentially
relates to the treatment of sale consideration received by the appellant as a
result of sale of 24800 shares at the rate of Rs 536.02 per share as against
Rs 72.28 per share sold in the immediately preceding financial year. The view
taken by the Ld.AO is thuhas per the terms & conditions set out in the sale
and purchase agreement dated 21-10-2004 the difference between Rs 536.02 per
share and Rs. 72.28 per share was in consideration of appellant's technical
expertise and his commitment to not to carry out any activity in relation to
business and non disclosure of technical know-how, copyright, patent or any
other business or commercial rights of similar nature. Therefore, in his
opinion, the consideration at the rate of Rs 463.74 per share was assessable
as business income under the head income from business or profession and
consideration at the rate of Rs 72.28per share was only to be taxed as .
capital gains. On the other hand, the case of the appellant is that the sale
consideration has been received by the appellant as a composite amount and the
AO has no legal authority to split it in two parts. Therefore, as per the
Ld.counsels for the appellant the action of the Ld. AO is not sustainable in
law. On consideration, I find that the action of the AO is being contested by
the Ld.counsels mainly on account of the followings-
(i) It is a fact that the assessee has sold all the impugned shares at the
rate of Rs 536.02 per share which is a clear and unambiguous and undisputed
fact.
(ii) Non compliance with some of the terms of agreement would not by itself
alter the nature of income. The assessee held shares as capital assets and
that asset was only sold by Mm and is subject matter of discussion,
(iii) It is undisputed position of law that the consideration received as a
result of sale/transfer of a capital asset is taxable as capital gains only.
(iv) There is no merit in the AO's argument regarding uniform transaction
Page 20 of 42 ITA No.- 719/Del/2010 Shri Sunil Goyal.
value and non amendment of the agreement as the same is not only factually
incorrect but also is irrelevant.
(v) There is no basis for the AO to hold that the difference in the
consideration per share transferred in different years was in consideration of
assessee's technical expertise in the field of software development and thus
the same was chargeable u/s 28(va) of the Act, as there is no such clause in
the agreement. May be that association of the appellant with MIPL would have
increased its profits but that would not change the character of receipts in
the hands of the appellant.
(vi) Section 28(va) has no applicability to the facts of the present case as
there is no mention in the agreement that any payment made to the appellant
was for not carrying out any activity in relation to any business or not
sharing any know-how, patents, copyrights, any other commercial or business
rights of similar nature etc.
(vii) The Ld,AO himself has accepted sale consideration of 90% of shares in
the preceding years as capital gains only and therefore, he was not permitted
to treat part of the sale consideration, as capital gains and part of it as
business income.
(viii) The AO has failed to appreciate that the higher purchase price in the
year under consideration was fixed keeping in view the high future earning
capacity of MIPL and for this purpose only the stipulation with respect to
assessee's continued employment with MIPL was made integral part of the
agreement.
(ix) The term management vendors used in. the agreement simply implies that
the individual sellers (including the assessee) were also in the control the
affairs of MIPL and nothing more should be read into it. Even otherwise,
transfer of management rights would have attracted capital gains only. Thus,
viewed from any angle, the transactions would have resulted gains only.
(x) The increase in the price of impugned shares was only due to different
mechanism of calculation adopted in the agreement and' the said agreement has
to be read in its entirety. The net result of the agreement is that what have
exchanged for consideration was shares only,, which is a capital, asset in the
hands of the vendor and would therefore be taxable as capital gains only.
(xi) It is the prerogative of the parties to the agreement to decide upon
their terms and considerations and unless there is any stipulation to the
contrary the will and intention of the parties shall only prevail. There is no
bar in the law on fixing different phases for the different years.
(xii) It is trite law that apparent shall not be disturbed unless there is
evidence for proving that apparent is not real. Admittedly, in the present
case there is not even a single evidence on record which can suggest that
consideration had been paid for any thing other than shares.
(xiii) It may be noted that the subject matter is an agreement between a non
resident third party and share holders of an Indian Company  Page 21 of 42 ITA
No.- 719/Del/2010 Shri Sunil Goyal.
including a reputed financial vendor. The agreement was a subject matter of
scrutiny by RBI and FEMA authorities and was executed only after their
approval.
(xiv) There is no iota of evidence to suggest that payment was received by the
appellant for not carrying on any activity in relation to business or for not
sharing any IPR and therefore, the AO was not justified in stating that the
drafting of various clauses of agreements was a colorable device. Thus, in the
absence of any evidence the averment made by the AO remains a bald allegation.
4.1 Before coming to the various submissions made on behalf of the appellant
and findings recorded by the Ld. AO, it may be beneficial to make a reference
to the various clauses of the purchase agreement executed by the management
vendors, and M/s Newell & Budge Holdings Ltd, as the same would enable us in
putting the things in right perspective. Therefore, the relevant clauses of
the agreement are being extracted below as under-
Sale and purchase 2.1 "Subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement
and in reliance of the warranties of the vendors and in consideration of the
Consideration to be paid hereunder by the purchaser, each of the vendors, as
the legal and beneficial owner, shall sell to the Purchaser and the Purchaser
shall purchase from the Vendors, the sale Shares set opposite his name in
column 4 of Part IB of the Schedule, with all rights and privileges attached
to them at the Completion Date, free and clear of all and any Encumbrances."
3\. Consideration:
3.1 Subject to the terms of this Agreement, the consideration for the sale and
purchase of the Sale shares shall comprise the consideration.
3.2 Upon completion of the matters referred to in paragraphs 1,2, and 3 of
sub- Part A of Part 2B of the Schedule, and in consideration for sale and
transfer of the Initial shares, the Purchaser shall pay the Initial
consideration to the Vendors in the amounts shown in column. 5 of Part IB of
the Schedule.
3.3 In consideration for sale and transfer of the first anniversary shares,
the Purchaser shall pay the first additional Consideration to the Vendors (in
the proportions set out in column 6 of Part IB of the Schedule) on the First
Additional Consideration Payment date subject to the conditions and deductions
set forth below.
(i) Full 100% of the First Additional Consideration shall be payable to the
Vendors (in the proportions set out in column 6  Page 22 of 42 ITA No.-
719/Del/2010 Shri Sunil Goyal.
of Part IB of the schedule) On the first additional Consideration Payment Date
in the event all three Management vendors are in the employment of the
Purchaser's group on the first Additional consideration Payment Date,
(ii) In the event either of Sunil Goyal or Pramod Saini are not in the
employment of the Purchaser's Group but the other two Management Vendors are
in the employment of the Purchaser's group on the first Additional
consideration Payment Date, then only 75% of the first Additional
Consideration shall be payable to the Vendors, other than Sunil Goyal or
Pramod Saini ( as the case may be) (in the proportions amongst the other
Vendors as set out in column 6 of Part IB of the schedule, as suitably
adjusted) on the first Additional consideration Payment Date.
(iii) In the event both Sunil Goyal or Pramod Saini are not in the employment
of the Purchaser's Group but Pankaj Aggarwal is in the employment of the
Purchaser's group on the First additional Consideration Payment date, then
only 50% of the first Additional consideration shall be payable to the
Vendors, other than Sunil Goyal and Pramod Saini (in the proportions amongst
Pankaj Aggarwal and the financial Vendor as set out in column 6. of Part IB of
the Schedule, as suitably adjusted) on the First Additional consideration
Payment date.
(iv) The first Additional consideration shall not be payable in the event
Pankaj Aggarwal is not in the employment of the Purchaser's Group on the First
Additional Consideration Payment Date, notwithstanding that either or both of
the other Management vendors are in the employment of the Purchaser's Group on
such date.
Notwithstanding anything contained herein, in. the event any one or more
Management Vendor is not in the employment of the Purchaser's Group on the
First Additional Consideration Payment Date as a result of material breach of
the service contracts) by the Target or the Purchaser Group or as a result or
the termination of the Service Contract by the company (Other than as a result
of breach by the relevant Management vendor of the terms of his Service
Contract) by giving six months written notice pursuant to clause 2 of the
Service contract, then no deduction shall be made in the First Additional
Consideration as a result of such non-continuance in employment of such
Management Vendors(s).
Page 23 of 42
ITA No.- 719/Del/2010 Shri Sunil Goyal.
3.4 In consideration, for sale and transfer of the Second Anniversary, the
purchasers shall pay the second additional Consideration to the Vendors (in
the proportions set out in column 7 of Part IB of the Schedule) on the Second
additional consideration Payment Date subject to the conditions and deductions
set forth below:
(i) Full 100% of the Second Additional Consideration shall be payable to the
Vendors (in the proportions set out in column 7 of Part IB of the Schedule) on
the Second Additional Consideration Payment Date in the event all three
Management vendors are in the employment of the Purchaser's group on the
Second additional consideration Payment Date'.
(ii) In the event either of Sunil Goyal or Pramod Saini are not in the
employment of the Purchaser's Group but the other two Management Vendors are
in the employment of the Purchaser's group on the first Additional
consideration Payment Date, then only 75% of the first Additional
Consideration shall be payable to the Vendors, other than Sunil Goyal or
Pramod Saini (as the case may be) (in the proportions amongst the other
Vendors as set out in column 6 of Part IB of the schedule,*as suitably
adjusted) on the first Additional consideration Payment Date.
(iii) In the event both Sunil Goyal or Pramod Saini are not in the employment
of the Purchaser's Group but Fankaj Aggaiwal is in the employment of the
Purchaser's group on the First additional Consideration Payment date, then
only 50% of the first Additional consideration shall be payable to the
Vendors, other than Sunil Goyal and Pramod Saini (in the proportions amongst
Fankaj Aggarwal and the financial Vendor as set out in column 6 of Part IB of
the Schedule, as suitably adjusted) on the First Additional consideration
Payment date.
(iv) The second Additional consideration shall not be payable in the event
Pankaj Aggarwal is not in the employment of the Purchaser's Group on the
Second Additional Consideration Payment Date, notwithstanding that either or
both of the other Management vendors are in the employment of the Purchaser's
Group on such date.
Notwithstanding anything contained herein, in the event any one or more
Management Vendor is not in the employment of the Purchaser's Group on the
Second Additional Consideration Payment Date as a result of material breach of
Page 24 of 42 ITA No.- 719/Del/2010 Shri Sunil Goyal.
the service contraet(s) by the Target or the Purchaser Group or as a
(iv) the company ceasing to be a private limited company for any reason
whatsoever; or
(v) Further of any special rights to third parties allowing those third
parties to take or veto from taking any decisions or which may have a material
effect on or of the business of the Company, including, to discontinue the
business, or remove or appoint directors to the board of the company, 3.7 The
Purchaser shall pay to the Vendors (in the proportions set out in column 9 of
Part IB of the Schedule) on the Third Consideration Additional Shares and
shall pay to the vendors (in the proportions set' out in column 10 of Part IB
of the Schedule) the Fourth additional Consideration for the fourth
consideration additional shares to the Management Vendors ( as determined by
Part 8 of the Schedule)) on the Third additional Consideration Payment date
and the Fourth additional Consideration Payment Date, respectively. Provided,
however, that a Management Vendor shall not be eligible to receive its share
of the third additional consideration or the fourth additional Consideration
in the event such Management Vendor is not in the employment of the
Purchaser's Group on the Third Additional Consideration Payment Date or the
Fourth additional Consideration Payment Date (as the case may be) for any
reason whatsoever, except in the event arty such Management Vendor is not in
the employment of the Purchaser's group on such date as a result of material
breach of, the relevant Management Vendor's Service Contract by the relevant
employing member of the Purchaser Group or unless such Management Vendor has
been served with a notice under clause 2 of the Service Contract by the
company or the Purchaser (other than as a result of breach by the relevant
Management Vendor of the terms of his Service Contract).
3.8 In the event the Purchaser has made a claim against the Management Vendors
under the Warranties or under the Indemnities or against the Financial Vendors
under rite representations and warranties contained in Clause 7.1 and the
claim has been agreed or determined or a final and non- appealable judgment
has been obtained on or prior to the First Additional Consideration Payment
Date or the Second Additional Consideration Payment Date or the Third
Additional Consideration Payment Date or Fourth additional Consideration
Payment Date or the Earn out Consideration Payment Date (as the case may be)
(a "Settled claim"), and the concerned Management Vendors or Financial Vendor
have/ has not paid to the Purchasers all sums due to the Purchaser from much
Management vendor or financial Vendor in respect of the settled claim on or
prior to the First Additional Consideration Payment Date or the Second
Additional Consideration Payment Date or the  Page 25 of 42 ITA No.-
719/Del/2010 Shri Sunil Goyal.
Fourth additional Consideration Payment Date or the Earnout Consideration
Payment Date (as appropriate), the Purchaser shall be entitled to set off any
sums due to it such concerned Management Vendors or financial vendor pursuant
to the settled claim together with interest on such sum (such interest
accruing at the Rate in the period between (1) the later of the date of
agreement or determination of the claim and (2) the date of set off herein
under) (the "Settled claim amount") against the First Additional Consideration
or the Second additional Consideration or the third additional consideration
payment date or the Fourth additional Consideration Payment Date or the
Earnout Consideration (as appropriate) payable to such concerned Management
Vendors or financial Vendor and the amount of the First additional
Consideration or the Second additional Consideration or the third additional
consideration payment date or the Fourth additional Consideration Payment Date
or the Earnout Consideration (as appropriate) shall be suitably reduced by the
Settled Claim Amount.
4\. Completion 4.1 The purchase and sale of the initial shares shall be
completed of the officers of the Purchaser's solicitors (or' of such other
place as the Parties may agree) on the completion Date when the Parties shall
each - comply with their respective obligations set out in Part 28 of the
Schedule subject to the fulfillment of the Conditions Precedent.
4.2 The Purchaser shall not be obliged to complete of any of the initial
shares unless all of the initial Shares are sold and purchased simultaneously.
4.3 In the event of non satisfaction of the conditions Precedent on or before
120 days from the date hereof, the purchaser, the Management vendor, the
financial vendor may terminate the Agreement, without any liabilities to the
other patties. Provided that, in such event:
> 4.3.1 The provisions of clause 17 (Notices), clause 19 (Costs and expenses)
> and 21 (Governing Law and jurisdiction) will survive the terms of this
> agreement.
> 4.3.2 The Purchaser shall (and shall ensure that its employees and
> representatives shall return all confidential, information and (b) treat any
> and all Confidential information as confidential and shall not disclose such
> information to any other person:
> 4.3.3 For a period of five (5) years from the date hereof the Purchaser
> shall not directly or indirectly (i) solicit for  Page 26 of 42 ITA No.-
> 719/Del/2010 Shri Sunil Goyal.
employment or employ, any individual who is currently engaged in the
employment with the company; or (ii) solicit, any current customer of the
company (other than NASSCOM); and 4.3.4 The confidentially obligations
contained in clause 4.3.2,above shall survive for a period not exceeding 5
(five years from the date hereof.
4.4 Provided however that, notwithstanding anything contained herein, in the
event this Agreement is terminated pursuant to clause 4.3. above, each Party
shall bear its own costs and expenses in connection with the preparation and
negotiation of this Agreement and in preparing and negotiating this Agreement
and any other documents referred to In this Agreement.
4.4 The purchase and sales of the First Anniversary shares, the Second
anniversary shares, the third consideration Additional Shares, the Fourth
Consideration Additional shares and the Earnout shares shall he completed of
the offices of the Purchaser's Indian solicitors (or at such other place as
the Parties may agree) on the First additional consideration Payment Date,
Second Additional Consideration Payment Date, the Third additional
Consideration Payment Date, Fourth Additional consideration Payment date and
the Earnout Consideration Payment Date , respectively. The provisions of Part
2B of the Schedule shall, to the extent applicable, apply mutatis mutandis to
completion of each of the aforesaid transfer of shares.
7.3 The Management vendors hereby jointly and severally warrant and represent
to and undertake with the purchaser that the warranties, both as at the date
of this Agreement and. at the Completion Date;
7.3.1 Save as fully and fairly disclosed in the Disclosure Letter, are true
and accurate in all respects;
7.3.2 Are not and are not to be affected or limited by any previous or other
disclosure express or implied, written or oral to the Purchaser, its officers
or representatives of professional advisers or by any investigation made by or
on behalf of the purchaser into the affairs of any members of the Target group
or by any information of which the Purchaser or its agents have knowledge
(actual or constructive); and 7.3.3 Shall not be any respect be extinguished
or affected by Completion.
Page 27 of 42
ITA No.- 719/Del/2010 Shri Sunil Goyal.
7.5 For the avoidance of doubt it is expressly agreed and declared that save
for the disclosure Letter, no letter, document or other communication shall be
deemed to constitute a disclosure for the purposes of the Warranties.
7.6 The Vendors undertake not to made and will procure (to the extent that
they are able) that no other person claiming under or through any of them will
made any claim against any member of the Group or any officer or employee of
any member of the Target Group on whom they may have relied before entering
into any term of this Agreement or in the preparation of the Disclosure Letter
in respect of any claim under this Agreement or any omission from or statement
in the Disclosure Letter.
7.7 Each of the Warranties shall be construed as separate and independent and
save as expressly otherwise provided shall not be limited by reference to any
other such warranty or by anything in this Agreement.
10\. Protection of Goodwill 10.1 The Covenantors hereby undertake to the
Purchaser with the intent of assuring to the Purchaser the frill benefit and
value of the goodwill and connections of the Target Group and as a constituent
part of the Agreement for the sale of the Sale Shares that neither of them
will and that they procure 'that none of their respective Connected will:
10.1.1. In the Territory for the period of two (2) years next following the
date of this Agreement directly or indirectly and whether for their own
account or in partnership with another or others or as agent for another or
others, be engaged in or interested or concerned in (except as the holder for
investment of securities dealt on a stock exchange and not exceeding 3% in
nominal value of the securities of any class) or provide financial, technical
or other support to any business which competes directly or seeks to complete
directly with any business carried on by the Target Group at the date ' of
this Agreement.
10.1.2. Except to the extent required by law not at any time following the
date of this Agreement, divulge to any person or otherwise made use of any
secrets, trade secrets, confidential knowledge or information concerning
either the business , finance or affairs of the Target group or any other
matter contemplated by or relating to this agreement;
10.1.3. (without prejudice to the generality of the provisions contained in
Page 28 of 42 ITA No.- 719/Del/2010 Shri Sunil Goyal.
clauses 10.1.1. and 10.1.2 of this clause) for the period of two (2) years
next following the date of this Agreement, directly or indirectly entice,
solicit or endeavour to entice or solicit away from the Target Group any
person who is a director or employee of such company engaged in its
management. or the management of any of its branches or in a sales capacity or
otherwise in a commercially sensitive position (whether or not such person
would commit any breach of his contract of employment or engagement by reason
of laving the service of such company) nor knowingly employ or aid or assist
in or procure the employment by any other person, firm or company of any such
person;
10.1.4. (without prejudice to the generality of the provisions contained in
clauses 10,1.1. and 10,1.2) for the period of two (2) years next following the
date of this agreement, not do any act or thing likely to have the effect of
causing any customer or any suppliers of goods or services to any of the
Target Group or other person dealing with the Target on a regular basis to
cease to deal with the target Group either at all or in part or on the terms
on which he had previously dealt with the Target Group or likely to have the
effect of causing any person having a contract or arrangement with the Target
Group to breach, terminate or modify that contract or arrangement;
10.1.5. Not any time following the Completion Date in connection with any
business use the name of the Target, Target Group or the word "Momentum" or
any names, words or initials similar to or likely to be confused with it
except that Momentum Infocare Pvt. Ltd shall continue to have the right to use
its current name.
10.1.6. The covenantors by their execution hereof hereby agree that having
regard inter alia to the price paid by the Purchaser for the Sale shares, the
restrictions contained in this clause are reasonable and necessary for the
protection of the legitimate interests of the Purchasers and that having
regard to those circumstances those covenants do not work harshly on them.
12\. Effect of completion 12.1 Any provision of this Agreement and any other
documents referred to in it which is capable of being performed after but
which has not been performed at or before completion and all warranties and
the indemnities, covenants, representations and undertakings contained in or
entered into pursuant to this Agreement shall remain in full force and effect
notwithstanding Completion. It is clarified that the warranties are . deemed
to be made as of the date of this Agreement and on completion and shall not be
deemed to be made subsequently".
Page 29 of 42
ITA No.- 719/Del/2010 Shri Sunil Goyal.
5\. Thus, it may be seen that there are specific stipulations in the various
clauses of the agreement to the effect that the additional consideration i.e.
difference between Rs 536,02 per share and Rs 72.28 per share would depend on
fulfillment of certain conditions including that the management vendors
including the appellant remain in the employment of the purchaser's group on
the payment dates. For instance, clause 3.3(H) clearly states that in the
event of Sunil Goyal or Pramod Saini being not in the employment of the
purchaser's group they will not get any additional consideration. Similar
stipulations are available in clauses 3.4(11) & 3.7 etc. Therefore, there is
no substance in the appellant's claim that the entire consideration was
received only in lieu of sale of shares by Mm. The language used in clauses
3.3,3-4 & 3.7 is unambiguous and clearly states that, first, second, third and
fourth installments of additional consideration was to be paid on respective
payment dates, only if the appellant was in the employment of purchaser's
group, meaning thereby that no amount in excess of Rs 72.28 per share was
payable to the appellant, if he does not remain in the employment of the
purchaser group. As stated earlier, the appellant is a technically qualified
person and has vast expertise and rich experience at his command which would
help increase the profitability of the purchaser group. It was for this reason
only that the purchaser group wanted to ensure appellant's continued
association with MIPL so as to reap benefits of Ms knowledge, technical
expertise and experience. Therefore, the payment of additional consideration
was, in a way, sharing of the profits earned by the purchaser's group because
of valuable support extended by the appellant. In fact, this has been admitted
in Para 5 of the written . submissions filed on behalf of the appellant on
6-11-2009 as reproduced in Para 3 above. In the circumstances, I do not find
any merit in the submissions made on behalf of the appellant that the entire
consideration was relatable only to the sale of shares, as the facts clearly
stated in the agreement do not support it.
5.1 Further, the appellant alongwith other management vendors has undertaken
to not, even remotely, provide any financial, technical or other support to
any business which competes directly or discreetly with any business carried
on by the target group. Simultaneously, he has also undertaken to not to
divulge or otherwise, use any secrets, trade secrets, confidential knowledge
or information concerning the business, finance or affairs of the target
group. Therefore, a cumulative reading of clauses 3,7.3 &10 regarding
consideration, restrictions put on/warranties undertaken by the management
vendors and protection of goodwill clearly suggests that the enhanced payment
of consideration was for and in lieu of exploitation of expertise, technical
know-how and experience controlled by the management vendors including the
appellant. I have already stated in the initial stages of this order that MIPL
was created by the appellant with his other two associates so as to utilize
their technical knowledge, expertise and experience for commercial gains. At
the same time, the purchaser group also wanted to ensure that the said
technical  Page 30 of 42 ITA No.- 719/Del/2010 Shri Sunil Goyal.
expertise, knowledge and experience remains available to them so as to exploit
the same for commercial gains and for this purpose only additional payment of
consideration was agreed upon to be paid to the management vendors including
the appellant. This view of mine is further supported by the notes given below
the table containing calculation of sale consideration, as available on pages
106 & 107 of the paper book filed by the appellant, which read as under-
"CCPs Compulsorily convertible preference shares As per the provisions of the
sale and purchase agreement entered between the transferors and the
transferee, consideration of first anniversary shares and the second
anniversary shares is dependent on the continuance of Pankaj Aggarwal, Sunil
Goyal and Pramod Saini in the employment of MIPL and or any of the affiliate
of the Investor company till the date of such payment and can be 100%, 75%,
50% or 0% -of the amounts stated above depending on tile continues employment
of one or more of the above persons.
As per the provisions of the sale and purchase agreement entered between the
.transferors and amortization ( EBIDTA, as defined in the sale and purchase
agreement ) earned by MIPL for the twelve month period ending March 31,2005
and can vary between 0% to 10,0% of the amounts stated above.
As per provisions of the sale and purchase agreement entered between the
transferors and the transferee, consideration of third additional shares and
the fourth additional shares is depended on the earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization (2005EBIDTA and 2006 EBIDTA, as defined
in the sale and purchase agreement) earned by MIPL for the twelve months
periods ending October 31, 2005 and October 31,2006. and can vary between 0%
to 100% of the amounts stated above".
5.2 Therefore, the receipt of Rs 1,15,00,663/- has to be seen in the light of
cumulative essence/import of various statements/stipulations made in the
purchase agreement. This view further strengthen when we go to part IB of
schedule forming part of the main agreement wherein the calculation of
additional consideration has been made with reference to "EBIDTA Percentage".
The EBIDTA has been defined to mean profits of the target i.e. MIPL for a
period of 12 months (reference invited to part 8 of schedule available on
pages 97 & 98 of the paper book).
5.3 At this stage, it may be relevant to make a reference to section 28(va)
which reads as . under-
Page 31 of 42
ITA No.- 719/Del/2010 Shri Sunil Goyal.
Any sum, whether received or receivable, in cash or kind, under an agreement
for-
(a) not carrying put any activity in relation to any business; or
(b) not sharing any know-how, patent, copyright, trade mark, license,
franchise or any other business or commercial right of similar nature or
information or technique likely to assist in the manufacture or processing of
goods or provision for service.
5.4 When the fact situation of the present case is seen in terms of clauses
(a) & (b) of section 28(va) the IT Act, there remains no doubt that the
stipulations/restrictions placed on the appellant in terms of purchase
agreement dated 21-10-2004 are identifiable with the items covered by the
aforesaid clauses. Since an elaborate discussion has already been made with
reference to the various undertakings, warranties and restrictions undertaken/
placed on the appellant in the forgoing paragraphs, the same are not being
repeated here.
There is also no merit in the appellant's argument that the law does not
permit the taxing authorities to split the sale consideration into two parts
and tax part of it as capital gains and the balance as income from business or
profession. As elaborated earlier, this division of consideration is
stipulated in the agreement itself and therefore, there is no requirement
either for the AO or for the undersigned to do it nor there is a need to read
into the various clauses of purchase agreement. It is not the revenue
authorities which are intending to not to accept the apparent, but it is the
appellant who is not willing to accept the clear .statement of the fact that
additional consideration was in lieu of exploitation of his expertise,
technical knowledge and experience for commercial gains and the same was also,
dependent on EBIDTA which is directly linked with the aforesaid attributes of
the appellant.
5.5 As regards, Ld. Counsel's argument that other stake holders including
financial vendor have also been paid consideration at the rate of Rs 536.02
per share, on consideration the same has also not been found to have much
relevance so far as the appellant's case is concerned. Firstly, the Ld.
Counsel could not explain as to how and what treatment has been given to the
sale consideration in the case of the financial vendor. Secondly, majority of
shares were held by the financial vendor as Compulsorily Convertible
Preference shares (CCPS) and the arrangement between the erstwhile management
of MIPL and financial vendor has not been made available to the undersigned.
Thirdly, the agreement in question does not spell out as to how the other
liabilities and assets were to be dealt with by the purchaser's group.
Therefore, in the absence of all these material information, no cognizance of
this argument can be taken at this stage.
5.6 In view of the above discussion, I am in total agreement with the AO that
the excess amount of Rs 463.74 per share was received by the appellant on
account of exploitation of Ms technical expertise in the  Page 32 of 42 ITA
No.- 719/Del/2010 Shri Sunil Goyal.
field of software development coupled with Ms a commitment to not to carry out
activities in relation to business and for not sharing know - how, copyright,
patent or any other business or commercial right of similar nature or
information or technique related to software development wherein MIPL was
engaged. I also hold that the cases relied upon by the Ld.AO support Ms
action. It is the settled position of law that while dealing with tax matters
the authorities are not supposed to put on blinkers but they should make
honest and sincere attempts to examine the material placed before them and
then reach logical conclusions. Therefore, the decision of the Ld.AO, being
based on real import of the various statements in the purchase agreement,
deserves to be upheld.
5.7 Accordingly, the addition of Rs 1,15,00,663/- is being sustained."
(C.1) `This present appeal filed by the assessee against the aforesaid
impugned appellate order dated 20.01.2010 of Ld. CIT(A). During appellate
proceedings in ITAT, assessee filed Paper Book containing the following
particulars:
> "1. Copy of acknowledgment of return and computation of income of the
> assessee for the A.Y. 2006-07.
> 2\. copy of Balance Sheet of the assessee for the year ending as on
> 31.03.2006.
> 3\. Copy of assessee's letter filed to Ld. A.O. dated 12-12-2008 along with
> following:
> I-Copy of the sale and purchase agreement among N&B Holdings Ltd. Amd
> Momentum India Pvt. Ltd. dated 31.10.2004 and 10.11.2004.
> 4\. Copy of assessee's letter filed to Ld. A.O. dted 13-12-2008 alongwith
> affidavit duly signed by Mr. Sunil Goyal.
> 5\. Submission made dated 30.11.2009 before Ld. CIT(A).
> 6\. Submission dated 22.01.2010
> 7\. Submission dated 29.01.2010"
Page 33 of 42
> ITA No.- 719/Del/2010 Shri Sunil Goyal.
(C.2) The assessee also field a compilation of cases relied upon, containing
copies of the following orders:
> "1. CIT VS D.P. SANDHU BROS. CHEMBUR (P) LTD. (2005) 273 ITR 1 (S.C.)
> 2\. CIT VS. MEDIWORLD PUBLICATION (P) LTD. (2011) 11 TAXMANN.COM 374
> (DELHI), 244 CTR 387 (DELHI)
> 3\. MRS. HAMI APSI BALSARA VS. ACIT (2010) 126 ITD 100 (MUM. TRIB.)
> 4\. HULAS RAHUL GUPTA VS. CIT (2012) 24 taxmann.com 191 (Delhi), & 17
> (Trib.) 336 (Delhi).
> 5\. ACIT VS. DR.B.V. RAJU [2012] 18 taxmann.com 188 (Hyd. Trib.) (SB), & 144
> TTJ 537.
6\. ACIT VS SAVITA N. MANDHANA [2010] ITA 3900/MUMBAI/2010 (C.3) Further the
assessee filed a synopsis which is reproduced as under:
> "The above two appeals filed by the revenue and the assessee in the appeals
> indicated above involve common issues for decision and have been clubbed
> together for being heard and decided. Both appeals relate to the Assessment
> Year 2006-07 for which the previous year was F.Y. 2005-06. The appeal No.
> 2918/Del/2011 filed by the revenue against Pramod Saini is against the order
> of the Commissioner of Appeals-XXX dt. 29.3.2011 in appeal No. 279/2008-09
> whereby the Commissioner of Appeal allowed the appellant's claim and held
> that the long term capital gain earned by the assessee was rightly offered
> for tax under the head 'Capital Gain' and should be taxed u/s. 112 at 20% as
> claimed by the assessee. While rejecting the stand of the revenue that the
> capital gain could be split into capital gain and business income as wrongly
> adopted by the AO. The ITA No. 719/Del/2010 is directed against the order of
> the CIT(A)-VIII dt. 29.1.2010 in Appeal No. 172/08-09 for A.Y. 2006-07
> holding that the long term capital gain of Rs. 1,32,11,569/- shown by the
> assessee could be assessed as business income to the extent of Rs.
> 1,15,00,663/- and the balance alone is taxable as long term capital gain as
> claimed by the assessee. The objective of the revenue in both cases was to
> impose higher burden of tax on the assessee by treating the amount assumed
> as business income as taxable at the rate of 30% as against 20% applicable
> to long term capital gain u/s. 112. The computation of income as well as
> consideration for transfer of shares held as long term capital asset by both
> the assesses have been accepted by the revenue. The entire  Page 34 of 42
> ITA No.- 719/Del/2010 Shri Sunil Goyal.
amount of consideration for sale of shares held by both the assessee in the
same company had been accepted as correct and assessed as long term capital
gain even in the preceding year for both. The assessment orders in both cases
have adopted the share price of Rs. 72.28 per share, as was adopted in the
preceding year and the excess of sale price over 72.28 per share has been
treated as business income to impose higher rate of tax although the income
computed by the assessee as well as the revenue is the same. Thus the short
issue in both cases is whether the income rightly taxed and taxable as long
term capital gain as offered by the assessee could be split partly to be taxed
as long term capital gain and the balance as business income in the hands of
the assessee.
2\. The computation of income filed with the return by Pramod Saini for A.Y.
2006-07 clearly shows long term capital gain of Rs. 30,61,73.2/- and tax on
long term capital gain after availing deduction / exemption u/s. 54EC on
investment of Rs. 1,01,50,000/- has been shown at Rs. 30,61,732/-. The AO in
his order of assessment has split the income by way of long term capital gain
to subject Rs. 1,15,00,752/- to tax as business income and reduced the long
term capital gain to nil figure after taking deduction u/s. 54EC into account.
The assessee is aggrieved by the illegal action of the AO and agitated the
matter before the CIT (A) who allowed the appeal of the assessee after holding
that the entire amount of sale consideration for shares must be treated as
falling only under the head 'capital gain' and there is no business carried on
by the assessee and there is no business activity nor any business income
liable to tax. The well reasoned order of the CIT(A) allowing the appeal of
the assessee is under challenge by the Revenue in ITA No. 2918/Del/2011 for
A.Y. 2006-07.
3\. The computation of income filed with the return by Sunil Goyal for A.Y.
2006-07 clearly shows long term capital gain worked out at Rs. 1,32,11,569/-
from the sale of shares and the capital gain at 20% thereon has been worked
out and paid. However, the AO split the capital gain to treat a substantial
part thereof as business income as may be seen from the assessment order dt.
31.12.2008 in which Rs. 1,15,00,663/- has been taken as business profit and
balance of Rs. 17,10,906/- as long term capital gain. The reason given by the
AO is that the capital gain is accepted only to the extent of the price for
the same shares adopted in the preceding year and the excess over Rs. 72.28
per share is business income of the assessee.
4\. In both cases the AO invoked Section 28 (va) of the Income Tax Act to
assume that the consideration for sale of shares could be taxed as business
profit of the assessee ignoring the fact that u/s. 28 (va) there is specific
exclusion of capital gains from the scope of tax liability under the head
'business' or 'profession'. The terms of the contract between the assesses /
shareholders and the buyers of the share had not been property appreciated or
understood by the AO in both cases who appear to have been directed by the
revenue officers above them to pass order on similar terms to reject the
assessee's claim for lower rate of tax on long term capital gain shown by
them.
Page 35 of 42
ITA No.- 719/Del/2010 Shri Sunil Goyal.
5\. It is pointed out that there was an agreement dt. 21.10.2004 by which the
shares held by the appellants as well as two other shareholders were sold at
the price agreed upon under the contract to M/s. Newell & Budge Holdings Ltd.,
Scotland. The percentage of shares held by each share holder and the price for
sale are indicated in Schedule Part IB to the agreement. It may be noted that
Pankaj Agarwal who held 7,44,000 shares (41.33%) has been allowed the tax on
long term capital gain at 20% offered by him and no dispute has been raised by
the revenue. Both Sunl Goyal and Pramod Saini held 2,48,000 shares each (i.e.
13.78% each) and in both their cases the sale consideration for the shares in
the year under dispute has been sought to be taxed substantially as business
income to impose higher burden of tax. The fourth shareholder i.e. Citicorp
Finance(India) Limited does not appear to have been subjected to any variation
in the assessment as per the income tax proceedings in these two cases as no
indication is given by the revenue in this regard.
6\. The terms and conditions of the agreement between the shareholders holding
the shares and the buyers of the shares as pert he agreement are not in
dispute and cannot be varied by the revenue. The shares have held as long term
capital asset by both the assessees and the tax thereon u/s. 112 has been
accepted in the last year also. There is no reason why the revenue cannot
accept the sale consideration for shares held as long term capital asset as
giving rise only to long term capital gain as claimed by the assessee. The
price for the shares is what the parties have fixed to be paid as per the
agreement and there cannot be any stipulation by the revenue that the price
should be the same in both the years nor can they take different stands in the
case of different shareholders relating to the same issue and same assessment
year. The company was providing software development by use of technical
expertise of the concerned directors and employees and the directors and
employees continued to carry on their activities with the transferee company
even after the shares were transferred so as to ensure that the companies
working and the clients are not affected. The assessees Pramod Saini and Sunil
Goyal also continue to remain and work as directors and employees of the
company to whom the shares were transferred and hence the terms of the
agreement were implemented while enabling the assessees to sell their shares
at the agreed price.
7\. The law is well settled that the head of income under which the respective
income is subjected to tax under the statute is stipulated by Section 14 and
that mandate of the statute cannot be changed by the revenue. Income falling
under a particular head for taxation can only be taxed under that head and
cannot be taken to a different head of income as may be seen from the
judgements of the Supreme Court in the cases of -
i) CIT Vs. D.P. Sandhu Bros. Chembur (P) Ltd. (2005) 273ITR 1 (SC)
ii) United Commercial Bank Ltd.Vs.CIT (1957) 32 ITR 688(SC)
iii) East India Housing and Land Development Trust Ltd. Vs.CIT(1961) 42 ITR 49
(SC)  Page 36 of 42 ITA No.- 719/Del/2010 Shri Sunil Goyal.
iv) CIT Vs. Chugandas & Co. (1964) 55 ITR 17(SC)
v) S G Mercantile Corporation Vs. CIT (1972) 83 ITR 700 (SC)
8\. In the present case there is no dispute that the shares were held by the
assessee as long term capital asset and hence the same should taxed only under
the head 'capital gain' as offered by the assessee. However, only because of
the higher rate of tax applicable to business income the AO had attempted to
bring the consideration for transfer of shares held as capital asset as income
from business and that by splitting the sale consideration without even
allowing the cost of acquisition of the shares. Thus the AO committed grave
error in making the enhancement of income tax liability solely to raise
additional demand unauthorized by law.
9\. The fact that Section 28 (va) has no application in the facts of the
present case is clear both from the language of that provision and also xhe
explanation and the proviso thereto. The judgement of the Delhi High Court in
CIT Vs. Mediworld Publications Pvt. Ltd. (2011) 244 CTR 387 (Del.) has
analysed the scope of Section 28(va) in the context of sale of shares and held
that the long term capital gain on sale of those assets cannot be disregarded
and the income there from cannot be brought to tax as business income
u/s.28(va) - Para 10 &11\.
10\. The Delhi Bench of IT AT in the case of Hulas Rahul Gupta (2012) 24
Taxmann.com 191 has also dealt with an identical situation in regai d to the
transfer of shares held as capital assets and allowed the assessee's claim for
being taxed on long term capital gain while rejecting the departmental stand
to treat it as business income The orders of lower authorities were set aside
and the appeal of the assessee against the order passed by the Commissioner
u/s. 263 was allowed by the Tribunal as may be seen from para 18. The decision
of the Mumbai Bench of ITAT in Mrs. Hami Aspi Balsara Vs. Asstt. CIT (2010)
126 IT'D 100 also upholds the plea that shares held as capital asset would on
transfer give rise to capital gam and the same cannot be brought to tax as
income from business. The above decision have been followed by the Mumbai
Bench of ITAT in the cases of Asstt. CIT Vs. Savita N. Mandhana and vice versa
in ITA No. 3900/Mum/2010 for A.Y. 2006-07 decided on 7.10.2011. The Delhi
Bench of ITAT in Asstt. CIT Vs. Smt. Sangeeta Vij decided on 25.5.2012 for
A.Y. 2005-06 in ITA No. .......also lays down that where the transfer is of
business held as capital asset as a going concern the amount received as
consideration would be taxable only as long term capital gain and the
assessee's claim to be subjected to tax on long term capital gain cannot be
rejected by the revenue so as to impose higher burden of tax on him.
11\. In view of the above settled legal position and the binding precedents
the appeal filed by the revenue against Pramod Saini deserves  Page 37 of 42
ITA No.- 719/Del/2010 Shri Sunil Goyal.
tobe rejected as being devoid of merit. The appeal filed by Sunil Goyal
against the impugned orders against him deserves to be allowed with
consequential relief.
It is prayed accordingly."
(D) We have heard both sides. We have perused the materials on record. In the
second ground of concise Grounds of appeal, it has been contended by the
assessee that the Ld. CIT(A) had conducted hearing till 6:15 PM on 29.01.2010
and the impugned order could not have been passed by him on the same day and
the impugned order appears to have already been prepared and kept ready and
the various factual and legal submissions contained in the submissions with
case law filed on 27.1.2010 and explained on 29.1.2010 from 3.00 PM to 6.15 PM
had been altogether disregarded and all the binding decisions of the Supreme
Court and the High Courts referred to and relied upon by the appellant had not
been followed and hence the impugned order is totally unsustainable and
unauthorised both on facts and in law. The fact alleged by the assessee in
this ground, that hearings before Ld. CIT(A) had taken placed till 6:15 PM on
29.01.2010 has not been disputed from the side of Revenue at the time of
hearing before us. When the hearing has taken placed till 6:15 PM on
29.01.2010; then it is contrary to all human probabilities that a detailed and
lengthy order [such as the impugned order dated 29.01.2010 passed by Ld.
CIT(A)] can be passed on the same day; unless the order is already prejudged
and a premeditated order is kept ready and unless the Ld. CIT(A) had already
decided the issue even before the hearing took placed on 29.01.2010. This is a
gross violation of the principle of natural justice. The Ld. CIT(A) is
required to first hear the assessee and then decide the issue in dispute;
rather than prejudging the issue even before the hearing takes place and
passing a premeditated order.
Page 38 of 42
ITA No.- 719/Del/2010 Shri Sunil Goyal.
(D.1) Moreover, in Ground 5 of the concise grounds of appeal, the assessee has
alleged hostile discrimination against the assessee vis--vis other
shareholders who had also transferred their share held as capital asset, and
at the same price, which had been duly accepted by Revenue in their cases. It
is contended by the assessee in this ground of appeal that Revenue cannot
discriminate between one shareholder and another in regard to transactions for
transfer of shares when such transfer of shares takes place under the same
agreement simultaneously by all of them.
(D.2) At the time of hearing before us, the fact alleged by the assessee, that
there is discrimination against the assessee, and that on identical facts and
circumstances the assessee has been picked up for hostile assessment whereas
two other shareholders [namely, Mr. Pankaj Agarwal and M/s Citicorp Finance
(India) Ltd.] have not been subjected to similarly hostile assessment by
Revenue; was not disputed from the side of Revenue. From perusal of records,
including the Assessment Order as well as impugned Appellate Order of Ld.
CIT(A), we find no mention or justification, as to why, in the case of the
assessee substantial part of income offered as long term capital gain has been
assessed as business income whereas on identical facts and circumstances
income of the aforesaid two other shareholders under the head long term
capital gain has been fully accepted by Revenue.
(D.2.1) In these facts and circumstance, as discussed in foregoing paragraphs
(D), (D.1) and (D.2); we are of the view that the impugned appellate order
dated 29.01.2010 of Ld. CIT(A) cannot be sustained at present and that the Ld.
CIT(A) needs  Page 39 of 42 ITA No.- 719/Del/2010 Shri Sunil Goyal.
to pass a fresh order taking into account the facts stated by assessee in
aforesaid Grounds 2 and 5 of Concise Grounds of appeal taken by the assessee
in the appeal filed by the assessee in ITAT. Accordingly, we set aside the
impugned appellate order dated 29.01.2010 of Ld. CIT(A) and direct him to pass
fresh order after providing opportunity of being heard to the assessee and
dealing with the issue, why in the case of the assessee substantial portion of
long term capital gain has been assessed as business income whereas on
identical facts and circumstances, the claim of long term capital gain by the
aforesaid other two shareholders has been accepted by Revenue.
The fresh order to be passed by the Ld. CIT(A) should be passed after giving
due consideration to the submissions made by the assessee, instead of passing
a premeditated order, prejudged even before the actual hearing take place.
This appeal is disposed of in accordance with the aforesaid directions. The
impugned order dated 29.01.2010 of Ld. CIT(A) stands set aside with the
direction to the Ld. CIT(A) to pass a fresh order, taking into account our
aforesaid observations and directions. For statistical purposes, the appeal is
partly allowed.
Order is pronounced in the Open Court on 26/11/19.
                  Sd/-                                       Sd/-
       (AMIT SHUKLA)                                      (ANADEE NATH MISSHRA)
       JUDICIAL MEMBER                                     ACCOUNTANT MEMBER
    Dated:      26/11/19.
    Pooja/-
                                         Page 40 of 42
                                                             ITA No.- 719/Del/2010
                                                                  Shri Sunil Goyal.
    Copy   forwarded to:
      1.   Appellant
      2.   Respondent
      3.   CIT
      4.   CIT(Appeals)
      5.   DR: ITAT
                                               ASSISTANT REGISTRAR
                                                     ITAT NEW DELHI
           Date of dictation
                               Page 41 of 42
                                                          ITA No.- 719/Del/2010
                                                               Shri Sunil Goyal.
Date on which the typed draft is placed before the dictating Member Date on
which the typed draft is placed before the Other Member Date on which the
approved draft comes to the Sr. PS/PS Date on which the fair order is placed
before the Dictating Member for pronouncement Date on which the fair order
comes back to the Sr. PS/PS Date on which the final order is uploaded on the
website of ITAT Date on which the file goes to the Bench Clerk Date on which
the file goes to the Head Clerk The date on which the file goes to the
Assistant Registrar for signature on the order Date of dispatch of the Order
Page 42 of 42
      1.   Appellant
      2.   Respondent
      3.   CIT
      4.   CIT(Appeals)
      5.   DR: ITAT
                                               ASSISTANT REGISTRAR
                                                     ITAT NEW DELHI
           Date of dictation
                               Page 41 of 42
                                                          ITA No.- 719/Del/2010
                                                               Shri Sunil Goyal.
Date on which the typed draft is placed before the dictating Member Date on
which the typed draft is placed before the Other Member Date on which the
approved draft comes to the Sr. PS/PS Date on which the fair order is placed
before the Dictating Member for pronouncement Date on which the fair order
comes back to the Sr. PS/PS Date on which the final order is uploaded on the
                  Revenue by                  : Shri Saras Kumar, Sr. DR
    Per Anadee Nath Misshra, AM
    (A)     This appeal has been filed by Assessee against the impugned appellate
order dated 29.01.2010 passed by Learned Commissioner of Income Tax
(Appeals)-VIII, New Delhi, ["Ld. CIT(A)",for short] pertaining to Assessment
Year 2006-07, on the following grounds:
> "1. On the facts and in the circumstances of the case the CIT(A) has erred
> both on facts and in law in upholding the impugned illegal order of the ITO
> dated 31.12.2008 instead of vacating the same and the impugned orders cannot
> be sustained.
> 2\. The CIT(A) had conducted hearing till 06.15 PM on 29.1.2010 and the
> impugned order could not have been passed by him on the same day  Page 1 of
> 42 ITA No.- 719/Del/2010 Shri Sunil Goyal.
and the impugned order appears to have already been prepared and kept ready
and the various factual and legal submissions contained in the submissions
with case law filed on 27.1.2010 and explained on 29.1.2010 from 3.00 PM to
6.15 PM had been altogether disregarded and all the binding decisions of the
Supreme Court and the High Courts referred to and relied upon by the appellant
had not been followed and hence the impugned order is totally unsustainable
and unauthorised both on facts and in law.
      1.   Appellant
      2.   Respondent
      3.   CIT
      4.   CIT(Appeals)
      5.   DR: ITAT
                                               ASSISTANT REGISTRAR
                                                     ITAT NEW DELHI
           Date of dictation
                               Page 41 of 42
                                                          ITA No.- 719/Del/2010
                                                               Shri Sunil Goyal.
Date on which the typed draft is placed before the dictating Member Date on
which the typed draft is placed before the Other Member Date on which the
approved draft comes to the Sr. PS/PS Date on which the fair order is placed
before the Dictating Member for pronouncement Date on which the fair order
comes back to the Sr. PS/PS Date on which the final order is uploaded on the
                  Revenue by                  : Shri Saras Kumar, Sr. DR
    Per Anadee Nath Misshra, AM
    (A)     This appeal has been filed by Assessee against the impugned appellate
order dated 29.01.2010 passed by Learned Commissioner of Income Tax
(Appeals)-VIII, New Delhi, ["Ld. CIT(A)",for short] pertaining to Assessment
Year 2006-07, on the following grounds:
> "1. On the facts and in the circumstances of the case the CIT(A) has erred
> both on facts and in law in upholding the impugned illegal order of the ITO
> dated 31.12.2008 instead of vacating the same and the impugned orders cannot
> be sustained.
> 2\. The CIT(A) had conducted hearing till 06.15 PM on 29.1.2010 and the
> impugned order could not have been passed by him on the same day  Page 1 of
> 42 ITA No.- 719/Del/2010 Shri Sunil Goyal.
and the impugned order appears to have already been prepared and kept ready
and the various factual and legal submissions contained in the submissions
with case law filed on 27.1.2010 and explained on 29.1.2010 from 3.00 PM to
6.15 PM had been altogether disregarded and all the binding decisions of the
Supreme Court and the High Courts referred to and relied upon by the appellant
had not been followed and hence the impugned order is totally unsustainable
and unauthorised both on facts and in law.
      1.   Appellant
      2.   Respondent
      3.   CIT
      4.   CIT(Appeals)
      5.   DR: ITAT
                                               ASSISTANT REGISTRAR
                                                     ITAT NEW DELHI
           Date of dictation
                               Page 41 of 42
                                                          ITA No.- 719/Del/2010
                                                               Shri Sunil Goyal.
Date on which the typed draft is placed before the dictating Member Date on
which the typed draft is placed before the Other Member Date on which the
approved draft comes to the Sr. PS/PS Date on which the fair order is placed
before the Dictating Member for pronouncement Date on which the fair order
comes back to the Sr. PS/PS Date on which the final order is uploaded on the
                  Revenue by                  : Shri Saras Kumar, Sr. DR
    Per Anadee Nath Misshra, AM
    (A)     This appeal has been filed by Assessee against the impugned appellate
order dated 29.01.2010 passed by Learned Commissioner of Income Tax
(Appeals)-VIII, New Delhi, ["Ld. CIT(A)",for short] pertaining to Assessment
Year 2006-07, on the following grounds:
> "1. On the facts and in the circumstances of the case the CIT(A) has erred
> both on facts and in law in upholding the impugned illegal order of the ITO
> dated 31.12.2008 instead of vacating the same and the impugned orders cannot
> be sustained.
> 2\. The CIT(A) had conducted hearing till 06.15 PM on 29.1.2010 and the
> impugned order could not have been passed by him on the same day  Page 1 of
> 42 ITA No.- 719/Del/2010 Shri Sunil Goyal.
and the impugned order appears to have already been prepared and kept ready
and the various factual and legal submissions contained in the submissions
with case law filed on 27.1.2010 and explained on 29.1.2010 from 3.00 PM to
6.15 PM had been altogether disregarded and all the binding decisions of the
Supreme Court and the High Courts referred to and relied upon by the appellant
had not been followed and hence the impugned order is totally unsustainable
and unauthorised both on facts and in law.
3\. The respondent passed the illegal order of assessment dated 31.12.2008 in
clear violation of natural justice as no show cause notice and no effective
opportunity of personal hearing in regard to the proposed addition under the
head 'Business' and enhancement of the tax liability by splitting the
consideration for transfer of shares , reflected in the impugned order had not
been given earlier to the assessee to indicate what is the case of the
department which the assessee was required to meet and inspite of the flagrant
violation of natural justice having been pointed out and explained before the
CIT(A) he has disregarded the same to confirm the impugned illegal order
instead of annulling / vacating the same, which cannot be justified both on
facts and in law and the impugned orders be quashed.
      1.   Appellant
      2.   Respondent
      3.   CIT
      4.   CIT(Appeals)
      5.   DR: ITAT
                                               ASSISTANT REGISTRAR
                                                     ITAT NEW DELHI
           Date of dictation
                               Page 41 of 42
                                                          ITA No.- 719/Del/2010
                                                               Shri Sunil Goyal.
Date on which the typed draft is placed before the dictating Member Date on
which the typed draft is placed before the Other Member Date on which the
approved draft comes to the Sr. PS/PS Date on which the fair order is placed
before the Dictating Member for pronouncement Date on which the fair order
comes back to the Sr. PS/PS Date on which the final order is uploaded on the
                  Revenue by                  : Shri Saras Kumar, Sr. DR
    Per Anadee Nath Misshra, AM
    (A)     This appeal has been filed by Assessee against the impugned appellate
order dated 29.01.2010 passed by Learned Commissioner of Income Tax
(Appeals)-VIII, New Delhi, ["Ld. CIT(A)",for short] pertaining to Assessment
Year 2006-07, on the following grounds:
> "1. On the facts and in the circumstances of the case the CIT(A) has erred
> both on facts and in law in upholding the impugned illegal order of the ITO
> dated 31.12.2008 instead of vacating the same and the impugned orders cannot
> be sustained.
> 2\. The CIT(A) had conducted hearing till 06.15 PM on 29.1.2010 and the
> impugned order could not have been passed by him on the same day  Page 1 of
> 42 ITA No.- 719/Del/2010 Shri Sunil Goyal.
and the impugned order appears to have already been prepared and kept ready
and the various factual and legal submissions contained in the submissions
with case law filed on 27.1.2010 and explained on 29.1.2010 from 3.00 PM to
6.15 PM had been altogether disregarded and all the binding decisions of the
Supreme Court and the High Courts referred to and relied upon by the appellant
had not been followed and hence the impugned order is totally unsustainable
and unauthorised both on facts and in law.
3\. The respondent passed the illegal order of assessment dated 31.12.2008 in
clear violation of natural justice as no show cause notice and no effective
opportunity of personal hearing in regard to the proposed addition under the
head 'Business' and enhancement of the tax liability by splitting the
consideration for transfer of shares , reflected in the impugned order had not
been given earlier to the assessee to indicate what is the case of the
department which the assessee was required to meet and inspite of the flagrant
violation of natural justice having been pointed out and explained before the
CIT(A) he has disregarded the same to confirm the impugned illegal order
instead of annulling / vacating the same, which cannot be justified both on
facts and in law and the impugned orders be quashed.
      1.   Appellant
      2.   Respondent
      3.   CIT
      4.   CIT(Appeals)
      5.   DR: ITAT
                                               ASSISTANT REGISTRAR
                                                     ITAT NEW DELHI
           Date of dictation
                               Page 41 of 42
                                                          ITA No.- 719/Del/2010
                                                               Shri Sunil Goyal.
Date on which the typed draft is placed before the dictating Member Date on
which the typed draft is placed before the Other Member Date on which the
approved draft comes to the Sr. PS/PS Date on which the fair order is placed
before the Dictating Member for pronouncement Date on which the fair order
comes back to the Sr. PS/PS Date on which the final order is uploaded on the
