Central Government Act
The Companies Act, 1956
THE COMPANIES ACT, 1956  
ACT NO. 1 OF 1956 [ 18th January, 1956]  
An Act to consolidate and amend the law relating to companies and certain
other associations.  
BE it enacted by Parliament in the Sixth Year of the Republic of India as
follows---  
1. Short title, commencement and extent.
(1) This Act may be called the Companies Act, 1956 .
(2) It shall come into force on such date 2 as the Central Government may, by
notification in the Official Gazette, appoint.
(3) 3 It extends to the whole of India: 4 ] 5 Provided 6 that it shall apply
to the State of Nagaland subject to such modifications, if any, as the Central
Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, specify.]
2. Definitions. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,-
(1) " alter" and" alteration" shall include the making of additions and
omissions;
(2) " articles" means the articles of association of a company as originally
framed or as altered from time to time in pursuance of any previous companies
650. [ Construction of" registrar of joint stock companies" in Act 21 of 1860 .] Rep. by the Companies (Amendment) Act, 1960 (65 of 1960 ), s. 214.
651. Construction of references to extraordinary resolution in articles, etc. Any reference to an extraordinary resolution in the articles of a company, or in any resolution passed in general meeting by the company, or in any other instrument, or in any law in force immediately before the commencement of this Act, shall, with effect on and from such commencement, be construed as a reference to a special resolution.
652. Appointment under previous companies laws to have effect as if made under Act. Any person appointed to any office under or by virtue of any previous companies law shall be deemed to have been appointed to that office under or by virtue of this Act.
1\. Ins. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 213.
653. Former registration offices continued. The offices existing at the commencement of this Act for the registration of companies shall be continued as if they had been established under this Act.
654. Registers under previous companies laws to be deemed to be part of registers under Act. Any register kept under the provisions of any previous companies law shall be deemed to be part of the register to be kept under the corresponding provisions of this Act.
655. Funds and accounts under Act to be in continuation of funds and accounts under previous companies law. All funds constituted and accounts kept under this Act shall be deemed to be in continuation of the corresponding funds constituted and accounts kept under previous companies laws.
656. Saving of incorporation under repealed Acts. Nothing in this Act shall affect the incorporation of any company registered under any enactment hereby repealed.
657. Saving of certain Tables under previous companies laws. Nothing in this Act shall affect-
(a) Table B in the Schedule annexed to Act No. XIX of 1857 , or any part
thereof, so far as the same applies to any company existing at the
commencement of this Act;
(b) Table A in the First Schedule annexed to the Indian Companies Act, 1882 (6
of 1882 ), or any part thereof, so far as the same applies to any company
existing at the commen- cement of this Act;
(c) Table A in the First Schedule to the Indian Companies Act, 1913 (7 of 1913
framed or as altered from time to time in pursuance of any previous companies
law or of this Act, including, so far as they apply to the company, the
regulations contained, as the case may be, in Table B in the Schedule annexed
to Act No. 19 of 1857 or in Table A in the First Schedule annexed to the
Indian Companies Act, 1882 , (6 of 1882 .) or in Table A in the First
1\. This Act has been extended to Goa, Daman and Diu by Regulation 12 of 1962
(with modifications), s. 3 and Sch.: to Dadra and Nagar Haveli by Regulation 6
of 1963, s. 2 and Sch. I and to Pondicherry by Regulation 7 of 1963, s. 3 and
Sch. 1. The provisions of this Act shall apply to Goa, Daman and Diu, subject
to the exceptions, modifications and adaptations contained in the Schedule to
G. S. R. 615, dated the 24th April, 1965 (Gazette of India, Pt. II, Sec. 3
(i), p. 670). Amended in its application to Goa, Daman and Diu by Reg. 11 of
1963, s. 9.
2\. 1st April, 1956, vide Notification No. S. R. O. 612, dated 8- 3- 1956,
Gazette of India, Extraordinary, 1956, Pt. II, Sec. 3, p. 473.
3\. Subs. by Act 62 of 1956 s. 2 and Sch., for sub- section (3) (w. e. f. 1-
11- 1956 ).
4\. Proviso omitted by Act 25 of 1968, s. 2 and Sch. (w. e. f. 15- 8- 1968 ).
5\. Ins. by Act 31 of 1965, s. 2 (w. e. f. 15- 10- 1965 ).
6\. The word" further" omitted by Act 25 of 1968, s. 2 and Sch. (w. e. f. 15-
8- 1968 ).
Schedule annexed to the Indian Companies Act, 1913 , or in Table A in Schedule
I annexed to this Act;
(3) " associate", in relation to a managing agent, means any of the following,
and no others:-
(a) where the managing agent is an individual. any partner or relative of such
individual; any firm in which such individual, partner or relative is a
partner; any private company of which such individual or any such partner,
relative or firm is the managing agent or secretaries and treasurers or a
director or the manager; and any body corporate at any general meeting of
which not less than one- third of the total voting power in regard to any
matter may be exercised or controlled by any one or more of the following,
namely, such individual, partner or par- tners, relative or relatives, firm or
firms; and private company or companies;
(b) where the managing agent is a firm: any member of such firm; any partner
or relative of any such member; and any other firm in which any such member,
par- tner or relative is a partner; any private company of which the firm
first mentioned, or any such member, partner, relat- ive or other firm is the
manag- ing agent, or secretaries and treasurers, or a director, or the
manager; and any body corporate at any general meeting of which not less than
one- third of the total voting power in regard to any matter may be exercised
or controlled by any one or more of the
following, namely, the firm firstmentioned, any such member or members,
partner or part- ners, relative or relatives, other firm or firms and priv-
ate company or companies; (c) where the managing agent is a body corpo- rate:
(i) any subsidiary or holding company of such body corporate; the managing
agent or secretaries and treasurers, or a director, the manager or an officer
of. the body corporate or of any subsidiary or holding company thereof; any
partner or relative of any such director or manager; any firm in which such
director, manager, partner or relative, is a partner; 1
(ii) any other body corporate at any general meeting of which not less than
one- third of the total voting power in regard to any matter may be exercised
or controlled by any one or more of the following, namely, the body corporate
and the companies and other persons specified in paragraph (i) above; and
(iii) 2 any subsidiary of the other body corporate referred to in paragraph
(ii) above: Provided that where the body corporate is the manag- ing agent of
the other body corporate referred to in paragraph (ii) above, a subsidiary of
such other body corporate shall not be an associate
1\. The" and" omitted by Act 65 of 1960, s. 2.
2\. Ins. by s. 2, ibid.
in relation to the managing agent aforesaid; and]
(d) where the managing agent is a private company or a body corporate having
not more than fifty members: in addition to the persons men- tioned in sub
clause (c), any member of the private company or body corporate; Explanation.-
If one person is an associate in relation to another within the meaning of
this clause, the latter shall also be deemed to be an associate in relation to
the former within its meaning;
(4) " associate", in relation to any secretaries and treasurers, means any of
the following, and no others:-
(a) where the secretaries and treasurers are a firm: any member of such firm;
any partner or relative of any such member; and any other firm in which any
such member, part- ner or relative is a partner; any private company of which
the firm first- mentioned, or any such member, partner, relat- ive or other
firm is the manag- ing agent, or secretaries and treasurers, or a director, or
the manager; and any body corporate at any gene- ral meeting of which not less
than one- third of the total vot- ing power in regard to any matter may be
exercised or controlled by any one or more of the following, namely, the firm
first- mentioned, any such member or members, partner or partners, relative or
relatives, other firm or firms, and private company or companies;
(b) where the secretaries and treasurers are a body corporate: (i) any
subsidiary or hold- ing company of such body corpo- rate; the managing agent
or secretaries and treasurers, or a director, the manager or an officer of the
body corporate or of any subsidiary or hold- ing company thereof; any part-
ner or relative of any such director or manager; any firm in which such
director or manager, partner or relative, is a partner; 1
(ii) any other body corporate at any general meeting of which not less than
one- third of the total voting power in regard to any matter may be exercised
or controlled by any one or more of the following, namely, the body corporate
and the com- panies and other persons speci- fied in paragraph (i) above; and
(iii) 2 any subsidiary of the other body corporate refe- rred to in paragraph
(ii) above: Provided that where the body corporate is the secretar- ies and
treasurers of the other body corporate referred to in paragraph (ii) above, a
subsidiary of such other body corporate shall not be an associate in relation
to the secretaries and treasurers aforesaid; and]
1\. The word" and" omitted by Act 65 of 1960, s. 2.
2\. Ins. by s. 2, ibid.
(c) where the secretaries and treasurers are a private company or a body
corporate having not more than fifty members: in addition to the persons
mentioned in sub- clause (b), any member of the private com- pany or body
corporate; Explanation.- If one person is an associate in relation to another
within the meaning of this clause, the latter shall also be deemed to be an
associate in relation to the former within its meaning;
(5) " banking company" has the same meaning as in the Banking Companies Act,
1949 (10 of 1949 );
(6) " Board of directors" or" Board", in relation to a company, means the
Board of directors of the company;
(7) " body corporate" or" corporation' includes a company incorporated outside
India but 1 does not include-
(a) a corporation sole;
(b) a co- operative society registered under any law relating to co- operative
societies; and
(c) any other body corporate (not being a company as defined in this Act)
which the Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette,
specify in this behalf;]
(8) " book and paper" and" book or paper" include accounts,. deeds, 2
vouchers,] writings, and documents;
(9) 3 " branch office" in relation to a company means-
(a) any establishment described as a branch by the company; or
(b) any establishment carrying on either the same or substantially the same
activity as that carried on by the head office of the company; or
(c) any establishment engaged in any production, processing or manufacture,
1\. Subs. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 2, for" does not include a corporation sole".
2\. Ins. by Act 31 of 1965, s. 3 (w. e. f. 15- 10- 1965 ),
3\. Subs. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 2, for cl. (9),
but does not include any establishment specified in any order made by the
Central Government under section 8;]
(10) " company" means a company as defined in section 3;
(10A) 1 " Company Law Board" means the Board of Company Law Administration
constituted under section 10E;]
(11) 2 " the Court" means,-
(a) with respect to any matter relating to a company other than any offence
against this Act, the Court having jurisdiction under this Act with respect to
that matter relating to that company, as provided in section 10;
(b) with respect to any offence against this Act, the Court of a Magistrate of
the First Class or, as the case may be, a Presidency Magistrate, having
jurisdiction to try such offence;]
(12) " debenture" includes debenture stock, bonds and any other securities of
a company, whether constituting a charge on the assets of the company or not;
(13) " director" includes any person occupying the position of director, by
whatever name called;
(14) " District Court" means the principal Civil Court of original
jurisdiction in a district, but does not include a High Court in the exercise
of its ordinary original civil jurisdiction;
(15) " document" includes summons, notice, requisition, order, other legal
process, and registers, whether issued, sent or kept in pursuance of this or
any other Act or otherwise;
(16) " existing company" means an existing company as defined in section 3;
(17) " financial year" means, in relation to any body corporate, the period in
respect of which any profit and loss account of the body corporate laid before
it in annual general meeting is made up, whether that period is a year or not:
1\. Ins. by Act 53 of 1963, s. 2 (w. e. f. 1- 1- 1964 ).
2\. Subs. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 2, for cl. (11).
Provided that, in relation to an insurance company," financial year" shall
mean the calendar year referred to in sub- section (1) of section 11 of the
Insurance Act, 1938 (4 of 1938 );
(18) " Government company" means a Government company within the meaning of
section 617; 1
(19) " holding company" means a holding company within the meaning of section
4; 2
(21) " insurance company" means a company which carries on the business of
insurance either solely or in conjunction with any other business or
businesses;
(22) " issued generally" means, in relation to a prospectus, issued to persons
irrespective of their being existing members or debenture holders of the body
corporate to which the prospectus relates;
(23) " limited company" means a company limited by shares or by guarantee:
(24) " manager" means an individual (not being the managing agent) who,
subject to the superintendence, control and direction of the Board of
directors, has the management of the whole, or subsantially the whole, of the
affairs of a company, and includes a director or any other person occupying
the position of a manager, by whatever name called, and whether under a
contract of service or not;
1\. Omitted by Act 30 of 1984, s. 52 (w. e. f. 1. 8. 1984 ).
2\. Cl. (20) omitted by Act 62 of 1956, s. 2 and Sch. (w. e. f. 1- 11- 1956 ).
(25) " managing agent" means any individual, firm or body corporate entitled,
subject to the provisions of this Act, to the management of the whole, or
substantially the whole, of the affairs of a company by virtue of an agreement
with the company, or by virtue of its memorandum or articles of association,
and includes any individual, firm or body corporate occupying the position of
a managing agent, by whatever name called. 1 Explanation I.- For the purposes
of this Act, references to" managing agent" shall be construed as references
to any individual, firm, or body corporate who, or which, was, at any time
before the 3rd day of April, 1970 , the managing agent of any company.
Explanation II.- For the removal of doubts, it is hereby dec- lared that
notwithstanding anything contained in section 6 of the Companies (Amendment)
Act, 1969 , (17 of 1969 .) this clause shall remain, and shall be deemed
always to have re- mained, in force;]
(26) " managing director" means a director who, by virtue of an agreement with
the company or of a resolution passed by the company in general meeting or by
its Board of directors or, by virtue of its memorandum or articles of
association, is entrusted with 2 substantial powers of management] which would
not otherwise be exercisable by him, and includes a director occupying the
position of a managing director, by whatever name called: 3 Provided that the
power to do administrative acts of a routine nature when so authorised by the
Board such as the power to affix the common seal of the company to any
document or to draw and endorse any cheque on the account of the company in
any bank or to draw and endorse any negotiable instrument or to sign any
certificate of share or to direct registration of transfer of any share, shall
not be deemed to be included within substantial powers of management: Provided
further that a managing director of a company shall exercise his powers
subject to the superintendence, control and direction of its Board of
directors;]
1\. Ins. by Act 41 of 1974, s. 2 (w. e. f. 1- 2- 1975 ).
2\. Subs. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 2, for" any powers of management".
3\. Ins. by s. 2, ibid.
(27) " member", in relation to a company, does not include a bearer of a
share- warrant of the company issued in pursuance of section 114;
(28) " memorandum" means the memorandum of association of a company as
originally framed or as altered from time to time in pursuance of any previous
companies law or of this Act;
(29) " modify" and" modification" shall include the making of additions and
omissions;
(30) 1 " officer" includes any director, managing agent, secretaries and
treasurers, manager or secretary, 2 or any person in accordance with whose
directions or instructions the Board of directors or any one or more of the
directors is or are accustomed to act,] and also includes-
(a) where the managing agent, 3 or the secretaries and treasures] is or are a
firm, any partner in the firm;
(b) where the managing agent or the secretaries and treasurers is or are a
body corporate, any director or manager of the body corporate; 4 but save in
sections, 477, 478, 539, 543, 545, 621, 625 and 633 does not include an
auditor;]
(31) " officer who is in default", in relation to any provision referred to in
section 5, has the meaning specified in that section;
(32) " paid- up capital" or" capital paid up" includes capital credited as
paid up;
(33) " prescribed" means, as respects the provisions of this Act relating to
the winding up of companies except sub- section (5) of section 503, 5 sub-
section (3) of section 550, section 552 and sub- section (3) of section 555],
prescribed
1\. Subs. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 2, for cl. (30).
2\. Ins. by Act 31 of 1965, s. 3 (w. e. f. 15- 10- 1965 ).
3\. Subs. by Act 41 of 1974, s. 2, for" the secretaries and treasurers or the
secretary" (w. e. f. 1- 8- 1975 ).
4\. Sub- clause (c) omitted by s. 2, ibid. (w. e. f. 1- 8- 1975 ).
5\. Subs. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 2, for" sub- section (1) of section 549 and
subsection (3) of section 550".
by rules made by the Supreme Court in consultation with High Courts, and as
respects the other provisions of this Act including sub- section (5) of
section 503, 1 sub- section (3) of section 550, section 552 and sub- section
(3) of section 555], prescribed by rules made by the Central Government;
(34) " previous companies law" means any of the laws specified in clause (ii)
of sub- section (1) of section 3;
(35) " private company" means a private company as defined in section 3;
(36) " prospectus" means 2 any document described or issued as a prospectus
and includes any] notice, circular, adver- tisement or other document 3
inviting deposits from the public or] inviting offers from the public for the
subscrip- tion or purchase of any shares in, or debentures of, a body
corporate;
(37) " public company" means a public company as defined in section 3;
(38) " public holiday" means a public holiday within the meaning of the
Negotiable Instruments Act, 1881 (26 of 1881 .): Provided that no day declared
by the Central Government to be a public holiday shall be deemed to be such a
holiday, in relation to any meeting, unless the declaration was notified
before the issue of the notice convening such meeting;
(39) " recognised stock exchange" means, in relation to any provision of this
Act in which it occurs, a stock exchange, whether in or outside India, which
is notified by the Central Government in the Official Gazette as a recognised
stock exchange for the purposes of that provision;
(40) " Registrar" means a Registrar, or an Additional, a Joint, a Deputy or an
Assistant Registrar, having the duty of registering companies under this Act;
1\. Subs. by Act 65 of 1960. s. 2, for" sub- section (1) of section 549 and
subsection (3) of section 550".
2\. Subs. by s. 2, ibid., for" any prospectus".
3\. Ins. by Act 41 of 1974, s. 2 (w. e. f. 1- 2- 1975 ).
(41) " relative" means, with reference to any person, any one who is related
to such person in any of the ways specified in section 6, and no others;
(42) " Schedule" means a Schedule annexed to this Act;
(43) " Scheduled Bank" has the same meaning as in the Reserve Bank of India
Act, 1934 (2 of 1934 );
(44) " secretaries and treasurers" means any firm or body corporate (not being
the managing agent) which, subject to the superintendence, control and
direction of the Board of directors, has the management of the whole, or
substantially the whole, of the affairs of a company; and includes any firm or
body corporate occupying the position of secretaries and treasurers, by
whatever name called, and whether under a contract of service or not. 1
Explanation I.- For the purposes of this Act, references to" secretaries and
treasurers" shall be construed as references to any firm or body corporate
which was, at any time before the 3rd day of April, 1970 , secretaries and
treasurers of any company. Explanation II.- For the removal of doubts, it is
hereby declared that notwithstanding anything contained in section 6 of the
Companies (Amendment) Act, 1969 (17 of 1969 ), this clause shall remain, and
shall be deemed always to have remained, in force;]
(45) 4 " secretary" means a Company Secretary within the meaning of clause (c)
of sub- section (1) of section 2 of the Company Secretaries Act, 1980 (56 of
1980 ), and includes any other individual possessing the prescribed
qualifications and appointed to perform the duties which may be performed by a
secretary under this Act and any other ministerial or administrative duties;]
(45A) 5 " secretary in whole- time practice" means a secretary who shall be
deemed to be in practice within the meaning of sub- section (2) of section 2
of the Company Secretaries Act, 1980 (56 of 1980 ) and who is not in fulltime
employment;]
(46A) 6 " Securities and Exchange Board of India" means the Securities and
Exchange Board of India established under section 3 of the Securi- ties and
Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (15 of 1992 )] (46)" share" means share in
the share capital of a company, and includes stock except where a distinction
between stock and shares is expressed or implied;
(47) " subsidiary company" or" subsidiary" means a subsidiary company within
the meaning of section 4;
(48) " total voting power", in regard to any matter relating to a body
corporate, means the total number of votes which
1\. Ins. by Act 41 of 1974, s. 2 (w. e. f. 1- 2- 1975 ).
2\. Subs. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 2, for el. (45).
3\. 41 of 1974, s. 2, for certain words (w. e. f. 1- 2- 1975 ).
4\. Subs. by Act 31 of 1988, s. 2 (w. e. f.--------------).
5\. Subs by s. 2 ibid (w. e. f. 15. 6. 1988 ).
6\. Ins. by Act 22 of 1996, s. 31 and Sch. (w. e. f. 20. 9. 1995 ).
may be cast in regard to that matter on a poll at a meeting of such body, if
all the members thereof and all other persons, if any, having a right to vote
on that matter are present at the meeting, and cast their votes;
(49) " trading corporation" means a trading corporation within the meaning of
entries 43 and 44 in List I in the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution; 1
(50) " variation" shall, include abrogation; and" vary" shall include
abrogate.
(2A) 2 Words and expressions used and not defined in this Act but defined in
the Depositories Act, 1996 (22 of 1996 ), shall have the same meanings
respectively assigned to them in that Act.]
3. Definitions of" Company"," Existing Company"," Private Company" and" Public Company".
(1) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires, the expressions"
company"," existing company"," private company" and" public company" shall,
subject to the provisions of sub- section (2), have the meanings specified
below:-
(i) " company" means a company formed and registered under this Act or an
existing company as defined in clause (ii);
(ii) " existing company" means a company formed and register- ed under any of
the previous companies laws specified below:-
(a) Any Act or Acts relating to companies in force before the Indian Companies
Act, 1866 (10 of 1866 .) and repealed by that Act;
(b) The Indian Companies Act, 1866 (10 of 1866 );
(c) The Indian Companies Act, 1882 (6 of 1882 );
(d) The Indian Companies Act, 1913 (7 of 1913 );
(e) The Registration of Transferred Companies Ordinance, 1942 (54 of 1942 );
and
(f) 2 Any law corresponding to any of the Acts or the Ordinance aforesaid and
in force-
(1) in the merged territories or in a Part B State (other than the State of
Jammu and Kashmir), or any part thereof, before the extension thereto of the
Indian Companies Act, 1913 (7 of 1913 ); or
1\. Cl. (49A) omitted by Act 17 of 1967, s. 4 and Sch. (w. e. f. 1- 7- 1967 ).
2\. Ins. by Act 22 of 1996, s. 31 and Sch. (w. e. f. 20. 9. 1995 ).
3\. Subs. by Act 62 of 1956, s. 2 and Sch., for cl. (f) (w. e. f. 1- 11- 1956
).
(2) in the State of Jammu and Kashmir, or any part thereof, before the
commencement of the Jammu and Kashmir (Extension of Laws) Act, 1956 (62 of
1956 ). 1 in so far as banking, insurance and financial corporations are
concerned, and before the commencement of the Central Laws (Extension to Jammu
and Kashmir) Act, 1968 (25 of 1968 ) in so far as other corporations are
concerned];]
(iii) " private company" means a company which, by its arti- cles,-
(a) restricts the right to transfer its shares, if any;
(b) limits the number of its members to fifty not including-
(i) persons who are in the employment of the company, and
(ii) persons who, having been formerly in the employment of the company, were
members of the company while in that employment and have continued to be
members after the employment ceased; and
1\. Ins. by Act 25 of 1968, s. 2 and Sch. (w. e. f, 15- 8- 1968 ).
(c) prohibits any invitation to the public to subscribe for any shares in, or
debentures of, the company: Provided that where two or more persons hold one
or more shares, in a company jointly, they shall, for the purposes of this
definition, be treated as a single member;
(iv) " public company" means a company which is not a private company.
(2) Unless the context otherwise requires, the following companies, shall not
be included within the scope of any of the expressions defined in clauses (i)
to (iv) of sub- section (1), and such companies shall be deemed, for the
purposes of this Act, to have been formed and registered outside India:--
(a) a company the registered office where of is in Burma, Aden or Pakistan,
and which immediately before the separation of that country from India was a
company as defined in clause (i) of subsection (1); 1
4. Meaning of" holding company" and" subsidiary".
(1) For the purposes of this Act, a company shall, subject to the provisions
of sub- section (3), be deemed to be a subsidiary of another if, but only
if,--
(a) that other controls the composition of its Board of directors; or
(b) 2 that other-
(i) where the first- mentioned company is an existing company in respect of
which the holders of preference shares issued before the commencement of this
Act have the same voting rights in all respects as the holders of equity
shares, exercises or controls more than half of the total voting power of such
company;
(ii) where the first- mentioned company is any other company, holds more than
half in nominal value of its equity share capital; or]
(c) the first- mentioned company is a subsidiary of any com- pany which is
that other' s subsidiary.
1\. Cl. (b) omitted by Act 62 of 1956, s. 2 and Sch (w. e. f. 1- 11- 1956 ).
2\. Subs. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 3, for cl, (b),
Illustration Company B is a subsidiary of Company A, and Company C is a
subsidiary of Company B. Company C is a subsidiary of Company A, by virtue of
clause (c) above. It Company D is a subsidiary of Company C, Company D will be
a subsidiary of Company B and consequently also of Company A, by virtue of
clause (c) above; and so on.
(2) For the purposes of sub- section (1), the composition of a company' s
Board of directors shall be deemed to be controlled by another company if, but
only if, that other company by the exercise of some power exercisable by it at
its discretion without the consent or concurrence of any other person, can
appoint or remove the holders of all or a majority of the directorships; but
for the purposes of this provision that other company shall be deemed to have
power to appoint to a directorship with respect to which any of the following
conditions is satisfied, that is to say-
(a) that a person cannot be appointed thereto without the exercise in his
favour by that other company of such a power as aforesaid;
(b) that a person' s appointment thereto follows necessarily from his
appointment as director, managing agent, secretaries and treasurers, or
manager of, or to any other office or employment in, that other company; or
(c) 1 that the directorship is held by an individual nominated by that other
company or a subsidiary thereof;]
(3) In determining whether one company is a subsidiary of another-
(a) any shares hold or power exercisable by that other company in a fiduciary
capacity shall be treated as not held or exercisable by it;
(b) subject to the provisions of clauses (c) and (d), any shares held or power
exercisable-
(i) by any person as a nominee for that other company (except where that other
is concerned only in a fiduciary capacity); or
(ii) by, or by a nominee for, a subsidiary of that other company, not, being a
subsidiary which is concerned only in a fiduciary capacity; shall be treated
as held or exercisable by that other company;
1\. Subs. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 3, for cl. (c).
(c) any shares held or power exercisable by any person by virtue of the
provisions of any debentures of the first- mentioned company or of a trust
deed for securing any issue of such debentures shall be disregarded-,
(d) any shares held or power exercisable by, or by a nominee for, that other
or its subsidiary[ not being held or exercisable as mentioned in clause (c);
shall be treated as not held or exercisable by that other, if the ordinary
business of that other or its subsidiary, as the case may be, includes the
lending of money and the shares are held or the power is exercisable as
aforesaid by way of security only for the purposes of a transaction entered
into in the ordinary course of that business.
(4) For the purposes of this Act, a company shall be deemed to be the holding
company of another if, but only if, that other is its subsidiary.
(5) In this section, the expression" company" includes any body corporate, and
the expression" equity share capital" has the same meaning as in sub- section
(2) of section 85.
(6) In the case of a body corporate which is incorporated in a country outside
India, a subsidiary or holding company of the body corporate under the law of
such country shall be deemed to be a sub- sidiary or holding company of the
body corporate within the meaning and for the purposes of this Act also,
whether the requirements of this section are fulfilled or not.
(7) 1 A private company, being a subsidiary of a body corporate incorporated
outside India, which, if incorporated in India, would be a public company
within the meaning of this Act, shall be deemed for the purposes of this Act
to be a subsidiary of a public company if the entire share capital in that
private company is not held by that body corporate whether alone or together
with one or more other bodies corporate incorporated outside India.]
4A. 2 Public financial institutions.
(1) Each of the financial institutions specified in this subsection shall be
regarded, for the purposes of this Act, as a public financial institution,
namely:-
(i) the Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India Limited, a
company formed and registered under the Indian Companies Act, 1913 (7 of 1913
);
1\. Ins. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 3.
2\. Ins. by Act 41 of 1974, s. 3 (w. e. f. 1- 2- 1975 ).
(ii) the Industrial Finance Corporation of India, established under section 3
of the Industrial Finance Corporation Act, 1948 (15 of 1948 );
(iii) the Industrial Development Bank of India, established under section 3 of
the Industrial Development Bank of India Act, 1964 (18 of 1964 );
(iv) the Life Insurance Corporation of India, established under section 3 of
the Life Insurance Corporation Act, 1956 (31 of 1956 );
(v) the Unit Trust of India, established under section 3 of the Unit Trust of
India Act, 1963 (52 of 1963 ).
(2) Subject to the provisions of sub- section (1), the Central Government may,
by notification in the Official Gazette, specify such other institution as it
may think fit to be a public financial institution: Provided that no
institution shall be so specified unless-
(i) it has been established or constituted by or under any Central Act, or
(ii) not less than fifty one per cent. of the paid- up share capital of such
institution is held or controlled by the Central Government.]
5. 1 Meaning of" officer who is in default". For the purpose of any provision in this Act which enacts that an officer of the company who is in default shall be liable to any punishment or penalty, whether by way of imprisonment, fine or otherwise, the expression" officer who is in default" means all the following officers of the company, namely:-
(a) the managing director or managing directors;
(b) the whole- time director or whole- time directors;
(c) the manager;
(d) the secretary;
(e) any person in accordance with whose directions or instructions the Board
of directors of the company is accustomed to act;
(f) any person charged by the Board with the responsibility of complying with
that provision: Provided that the person so charged has given his consent in
this behalf to the Board;
(g) where any company does not have any of the officers specified in clauses
(a) to (c), any director or directors who may be specified by the Board in
this behalf or where no director is so specified, all the directors: Provided
that where the Board exercises any power under clause (f) or clause (g), it
shall, within thirty days of the exercise of such powers, file with the
Registrar a return in the prescribed form.
6. 2 Meaning of" relative". A person shall be deemed to be a relative of another if, and only if,-
(a) they are members of a Hindu undivided family; or
(b) they are husband and wife; or
(c) the one is related to the other in the manner indicated in Schedule IA.]
1\. Subs by Act 31 of 1988, s. 3 (w. e. f. 15. 7. 1988 ).
2\. Subs by Act 65 of 1960, s. 4, for s. 6.
7. Interpretation of" person in accordance with whose directions or instructions directors are accustomed to act". Except where this Act expressly provides otherwise, a person shall not be deemed to be, within the meaning of any provision in this Act, a person in accordance with whose directions or instructions the Board of directors of a company is accustomed to act, by reason only that the Board acts on advice given by him in a professional capacity.
8. Power of Central Government to declare an establishment not to be a branch office. The Central Government may, by order, declare that in the case of any company, 1 , any establishment carrying on either the same or substantially the same activity as that carried on by the head office of the company, or 2 any establishment engaged in any production, processing or manufacture], shall not be treated as a branch office of the company for all or any of the purposes of this Act.
9. Act to override memorandum, articles, etc. Save as otherwise expressly provided in the Act-
(a) the provisions of this Act shall have effect notwithstanding anything to
the contrary contained in the memorandum or articles of a company, or in any
agreement executed by it, or in any resolution passed by the company in
general meeting or by its Board of directors, whether the same be registered,
executed or passed, as the case may be, before or after the commencement of
this Act; and
(b) any provision contained in the memorandum, articles, agreement or
resolution aforesaid shall, to the extent to which it is repugnant to the
provisions of this Act, become or be void, as the case may be.
10. Jurisdiction of Courts.
(1) The Court having jurisdiction under this Act shall be-
(a) the High Court having jurisdiction in relation to the place at which the
registered office of the company concerned is situate, except to the extent to
which jurisdiction has been conferred on any District Court or District Courts
subordinate to that High Court in pursuance of subsection (2); and
1\. The words" not being a banking or an insurance company" omitted by Act 65
of 1960, s. 5.
2\. Subs. by s. 5, ibid., for" any production or manufacture".
(b) where jurisdiction has been so conferred, the District Court in regard to
matters falling within the scope of the jurisdiction conferred, in respect of
companies having their registered offices in the district.
(2) The Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette and
subject to such restrictions, limitations and conditions as it thinks fit,
empower any District Court to exercise all or any of the jurisdiction
conferred by this Act upon the Court, not being the jurisdiction conferred-
(a) in respect of companies generally, by sections 237, 391, 394, 395 and 397
to 407, both inclusive;
(b) in respect of companies with a paid- up share capital of not less than one
lakh of rupees, by Part VII (sections 425 to 560) and the other provisions of
this Act relating to the winding up of companies.
(3) For the purposes of jurisdiction to wind up companies, the expression"
registered office" means the place which has longest been the registered
office of the company during the six months immediately preceding the
presentation of the petition for winding up.
10A. [ Constitution of Tribunal.] Repealed by the Companies Tribunal
(Abolition) Act, 1967 (17 of 1967 ) s. 4 and Sch.
10B. [ Procedure of Tribunal.] Repealed by s. 4 and Sch. ibid
10C. [ Powers of Tribunal.] Repealed by s 4 and Sch., ibid
10D. [ Appeals against decisions. etc.. of the Tribunal.] Repealed by s. 4 and
Sch., ibid. 1 PART IA, BOARD OF COMPANY LAW ADMINISTRATION
10E. Constitution of Board of Company Law Administration.
(1) 2 As soon as may be after the commencement of the Companies (Amendment)
Act, 1988 , the Central Government shall, by notification in the Official
Gazette, constitute a Board to be called the Board of Company Law
Administration.
(1A) The Company Law Board shall exercise and discharge such powers and
functions as may be conferred on it, by or under this Act or any other law,
and shall also exercise and discharge such other powers and functions of the
Central Government under this Act or any other law as may be conferred on it
by the Central Government, by notification in the Official Gazette under the
provisions of this Act or that other law.]
1\. Ins. by Act 53 of 1963, s. 4 (w. e. f. 1- 1- 1964 ).
2\. Subs. by Act 31 of 1988, s. 4 (w. e. f. 31. 5. 1991 ).
(2) The Company Law Board shall consist of such number of members, not
exceeding 1 nine], as the Central Government deems fit, to be appointed by
that Government by notification in the Official Gazette: 2 Provided that the
Central Government may, by notification in the official Gazette, continue the
appointment of the chairman or any other member of the company Law Board
functioning as such immediately before the commencement of the Companies
(Amendment) Act, 1988 (31 of 1988 ), as the chairman or any other member of
the Company Law Board, after such commencement for such period not exceeding
three years as may be specified in the notification.
(2A) 3 The members of the Company Law Board shall possess such qualifications
and experience as maybe prescribed."]
(3) One of the members shall be appointed by the Central Gov- ernment to be
the chairman of the Company Law Board.
(4) No act done by the Company Law Board shall be called in question on the
ground only of any defect in the constitution of, or the existence of any
vacancy in, the Company Law Board. 4
(4B) 5 6 The Board may, by order in writing, form one or more Benches from
among its members and authorise each such Bench to exercise and discharge such
of the Board' s powers and functions as may be specified in the order; and
every order made or act done by a Bench in exercise of such powers or
discharge of such functions shall be deemed to be the order or act as the case
may be, of the Board.
(4C) Every Bench referred to in sub- section (4B) shall have powers which are
vested in a Court under the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 , (5 of 1908 ).
while trying a suit, in respect of the following matters, namely:-
(a) discovery and inspection of documents or other material objects producible
as evidence;
1\. Subs. by Act 41 of 1974, s. 4, for" five" (w. e. f. 1- 2- 1975 ).
2\. Ins. by Act 31 of 1988, s. 4 (w. e. f. 31- 5- 1991 ).
3\. Ins by s. 4, ibid (w. e. f. 4- 8- 1989 ). u 4 Omitted by s. 4, ibid Act 31
of 1988, s. 4 (w. e. f. 31- 5- 1991 ).
5\. Ins. by Act 41 of 1974, s. 4 (w. e. f. 1- 2- 1975 ).
6\. Subs. by s. 4, ibid (w. e. f. 1- 2- 1975 ).
(b) enforcing the attendance of witnesses and requiring the deposit of their
expenses;
(c) compelling the production of documents or other material objects
producible as evidence and impounding the same;
(d) examining witnesses on oath;
(e) granting adjournments;
(f) reception of evidence on affidavits.
(4D) Every Bench shall be deemed to be a civil court for the purposes of
section 195 and 1 Chapter XXVI of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 ], (2
of 1974 ). and every proceeding before the Bench shall be deemed to be a
judicial proceeding within the meaning of section 193 and 228 of the Indian
Penal Code and for the purpose of section 196 of that Code.] (45 of 1860 ).
(5) 2 Without prejudice to the provisions of sub- sections (4C) and (4D), the
Company Law Board shall in the exercise of its powers and the discharge of its
functions under this Act or any other law be guided by the principles of
natural justice and shall act in its discretion.
(6) Subject to the foregoing provisions of this section, the Company Law Board
shall have power to regulate its own procedure"]
10F. 3 Appeals against the orders of the Company Law Board. Any person
aggrieved by any decision or order of the Company Law Board may file an appeal
to the High Court within sixty days from the date of communication of the
decision or order of the Company Law Board to him on any question of law
arising out of such order: Provided that the High Court may, if it is
satisfied that the appellant was prevented by sufficient cause from filing the
appeal within the said period, allow it to be filed within a further period
not exceeding sixty days.] PART II INCORPORATION OF COMPANY AND MATTERS
INCIDENTAL THERETO Certain companies, associations and partnerships to be
registered, as companies under Act.
11. Prohibition of associations and partnerships exceeding certain number.
(1) No company, association or partnership consisting of more than ten persons
shall be formed for the purpose of carrying on the business of banking, unless
it is registered as a company under this Act, or is formed in pursuance of
some other Indian law.
1\. Subs. by Act 46 of 1977, s. 2, for the words and figures" Chapter XXXV of
the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898 ".
2\. Subs. by Act 31 of 1988, s. 4 (w. e. f. 31- 5- 1991 ).
3\. Ins. by s. 5, ibid. (w. e. f. 31- 5- 1991 ).
(2) No company, association or partnership consisting of more than twenty
persons shall be formed for the purpose of carrying on any other business that
has for its object the acquisition of gain by the company, association or
partnership, or by the individual members thereof, unless it is registered as
a company under this Act, or is formed in pursuance of some other Indian law.
(3) This section shall not apply to a joint family as such carrying on a
business; and where a business is carried on by two or more joint families, in
computing the number of persons for the purposes of sub- sections (1) and (2),
minor members of such families shall be excluded.
(4) Every member of a company, association or partnership carry- ing on
business in contravention of this section shall be personally liable for all
liabilities incurred in such business.
(5) Every person who is a member of a company, association or partnership
formed in contravention of this section shall be punish- able with fine which
may extend to one thousand rupees. Memorandum of Association
12. Mode of forming incorparated company.
(1) Any seven or more persons, or where the company to be formed will be a
private company, any two or more persons, associated for any lawful purpose
may, by subscribing their names to a memorandum of association and otherwise
complying with the requirements of this Act in respect of registration, form
an incorporated company, with or without limited liability.
(2) Such a company may be either-
(a) a company having the liability of its members limited by the memorandum to
the amount, if any, unpaid on the shares respectively held by them (in this
Act termed" a company limited by shares")
(b) a company having the liability of its members limited by the memorandum to
such amount as the members may respectively undertake by the memorandum to
contribute to the assets of the company in the event of its being wound up (in
this Act termed" a company limited by guarantee");
(c) a company not having any limit on the liability of its members (in this
Act termed" an unlimited company").
13. Requirements with respect to memorandum.
(1) The memorandum of every company shall state-
(a) the name of the company with" Limited" as the last word of the name in the
case of a public limited company, and with" Private Limited" as the last word
of the name in the case of a private limited company;
(b) the State in which the registered office of the company is to be situate;
1
(c) 2 in the case of a company in existence immediately before the
commencement of the Companies (Amendment) Act, 1965 , the objects of the
company;
(d) in the case of a company formed after such commencement,-
(i) the main objects of the company to be pursued by the company on its
incorporation and objects incidental or ancillary to the attainment of the
main objects;
(ii) other objects of the company not included in sub- clause (i); and
(e) in the case of companies (other than trading corporations), with objects
not confined to one State, the States to whose territories the objects
extend.]
(2) The memorandum of a company limited by shares or by guarantee shall also
state that the liability of its members is limited.
(3) The memorandum of a company limited by guarantee shall also state that
each member undertakes to contribute to the assets of the company in the event
of its being wound up while he is a member or within one year after he ceases
to be a member, for payment of the debts and liabilities of the company, or of
such debts and liabilities of the company as may have been contracted before
he ceases to be a member, as the case may be, and of the costs, charges and
expenses of winding up, and for adjustment of the rights of the contributories
among themselves, such amount as may be required, not exceeding a specified
amount.
(4) In the case of a company having a share capital-
(a) unless the company is an unlimited company, the memorandum shall also
state the amount of share capital with
1\. The word" and" omitted by Act 31 of 1965, s. 5 (w. e. f. 15- 10- 1965 ).
2\. Subs. by s. 5, ibid., for clause (c) (w. e. f. 15- 10- 1965 ).
which the company is to be registered and the division thereof into shares of
a fixed amount;
(b) no subscriber of the memorandum shall take less than one share; and
(c) each subscriber of the memorandum shall write opposite to his name the
number of shares he takes.
14. Form of memorandum. The memorandum of association of a company shall be in such one of the Forms in Tables B, C, D and E in Schedule I as may be applicable to the case of the company, or in a Form as near thereto as circumstances admit.
15. Printing and signature of memorandum. The memorandum shall-
(a) be printed,
(b) be divided into paragraphs numbered consecutively, and
(c) be signed by each subscriber (who shall add his address, description and
occupation, if any,) in the, presence of at least one witness who shall attest
the signature and shall likewise add his. address, description and occupation,
if any.
15A. Special provision as to alternation of memorandumconsequent on alteration
o
15B. 1 Special provision as to alteration of memorandum consequent on
alteration of name of State of Mysore. Where, in the memorandum of association
of a company in existence immediately before the commencement of the Mysore
State (Alteration of Name) Act, 1973 (31 of 1973 ), it is stated that Mysore
is the State in which the registered office of that company is situate, then,
notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, the said memorandum shall, as
from such commencement, be deemed to have been altered by substitution of a
reference to the State of Karnataka for the reference to the State of Mysore
and the Registrar of the State of Karnataka shall make necessary alterations
in the memorandum of association and the certificate of incorporation of the
said company.]
16. Alteration of memorandum.
(1) A company shall not alter the conditions contained in its memorandum
except in the cases, in the mode, and to the extent, for which express
provision is made in this Act.
(2) Only those provisions which are required by section 13 or by any other
specific provision contained in this Act, to be stated in the memorandum of
the company concerned shall be deemed to be con- ditions contained in its
memorandum.
(3) Other provisions contained in the memorandum, including those relating to
the appointment of a managing director, managing agent, secretaries and
treasurers or manager, may be altered in the same manner as the articles of
the company, but if there is any express provision in this Act permitting of
the alteration of such provisions in any other manner, they may also be
altered in such other manner.
(4) All references to the articles of a company in this Act shall be construed
as including references to the other provisions aforesaid contained in its
memorandum.
1\. Ins. by the Mysore State (Alteration of Name) (Adaptation of Laws on Union
Subjects) Order, 1974 (w. e. f. 1- 11- 1973 ), see Notification No. G. S. R.
431 (E), dated 21st October, 1974, see Gazette of India, Extraordinary, Pt.
II, Sec. 3 (i), P. 1981.
17. Special resolution and confirmation by Company Law Board required for alternation of memorandum.
(1) A company may, by special resolution, alter the provisions of its
memorandum so as to change the place of its registered office from one State
to another, or with respect to the objects of the company so far as may be
required to enable it-
(a) to carry on its business more economically or more efficiently;
(b) to attain its main purpose by new or improved means;
(c) to enlarge or change the local area of its operations;
(d) to carry on some business which under existing circumstances may
conveniently or advantageously be combined with the business of the company;
(e) to restrict or abandon any of the objects specified in the memorandum;
(f) to sell or dispose of the whole, or any part, of the undertaking, or of
any of the undertakings, of the company; or
(g) to amalgamate with any other company or body of persons.
(2) The alteration shall not take effect until, and except in so far as, it is
confirmed by the 1 Company Law Board] on petition.
(3) Before confirming the alteration, the 1 Company Law Board] must be
satisfied-
(a) that sufficient notice has been given to every holder of the debentures of
the company, and to every other person or class of persons whose interests
will, in the opinion of the 1 Company Law Board], be affected by the
alteration; and
(b) that, with respect to every creditor who, in the opinion of the 1 Company
Law Board], is entitled to object to the alteration, and who signifies his
objection in the manner directed by the 1 Company Law Board], either his
consent to the alteration has been obtained or his debt or claim has been
discharged or has determined, or has been secured to the satisfaction of the 1
Company Law Board]: Provided that the 1 Company Law Board] may, in the case of
any person or class of persons, for special reasons, dispense with the notice
required by clause (a).
1\. Subs. by Act 41 of 1974, s. 5, for" Court" (w. e. f. 1- 2- 1975 ).
(4) 1 The 2 Company Law Board] shall cause notice of the petition for
confirmation of the alteration to be served on the Registrar who shall also be
given a reasonable opportunity to appear before the 2 Company Law Board] and
state his objections and suggestions, if any, with respect to the confirmation
of the alteration.]
(5) The 2 Company Law Board] may make an order confirming the alteration
either wholly or in part, and on such terms and conditions, if any, as it
thinks fit, and may make such order as to costs as it thinks proper.
(6) The 2 Company Law Board] shall, in exercising its powers under this
section, have regard to the rights and interests of the members of the company
and of every class of them, as well as to the rights and interests of the
creditors of the company and of every class of them.
(7) The 2 Company Law Board] may, if it thinks fit, adjourn the proceedings in
order that an arrangement may be made to the satis- faction of the 2 Company
Law Board] for the purchase of the interests of dissentient members; and may
give such directions and make such orders as it thinks fit for facilitating,
or carrying into effect, any such arrangement: Provided that no part of the
capital of the company may be ex- pended in any such purchase.
18. Alternation to be registered within three months. 3
(1) A certified copy of the order of the 2 Company Law Board] made under sub-
section (5) of section 17 confirming the alteration, together with a printed
copy of the memorandum as altered, shall, within three months from the date of
the order, be filed by the company with the Registrar who shall register the
same and certify the registration under his hand within one month from the
date of the filing of such documents.
(2) The certificate shall be conclusive evidence that all the re- quirements
of this Act with respect to the alteration and the confir- mation thereof have
been complied with, and thenceforth the memorandum as so altered shall be the
memorandum of the company.
(3) Where the alteration involves a transfer of the registered office from,
one state to another, a certified copy of the order
1\. Subs. by Act. 65 of 1960, s. 6, for sub- section (4).
2\. Subs. by Act 41 of 1974, s. 5, for" Court" (w. e. f. 1- 2- 1975 ).
3\. Subs. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 7, for sub- section (1).
confirming the alteration shall be filed by the company with the Registrar of
each of the States, and the Registrar of each such State shall register the
same, and shall certify under his hand the registration thereof; and the
Registrar of the State from which such office is transferred shall send to the
Registrar of the other State all documents relating to the company registered,
recorded or filed in his office.
(4) The 1 Company Law Board] may, at any time, by order, extend the time for
the filing of documents 2 or for the registration of the alteration] under
this section by such period as it thinks proper.
Effect of failure to register.
19. Effect of failure to register.
(1) No such alteration as is referred to in section 17 shall have any effect
until it has been duly registered in accordance with the provisions of section
18.
(2) 3 If the documents required to be filed with the Registrar under section
18 are not filed within the time allowed under that section, such alteration
and the order of the 1 Company Law Board] made under sub- section (5) of
section 17 and all proceedings connected therewith, shall, at the expiry of
such period, become void and inoperative: Provided that the 1 Company Law
Board] may, on sufficient cause shown, revive the order on application made
within a further period of one month.] Provisions with respect to names of
companies
20. Companies not to be registered with undesirable names.
(1) No company shall be registered by a name which, in the opinion of the
Central Government, is undesirable.
(2) Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power, a name which
is identical with, or too nearly resembles, the name by which a company in
existence has been previously registered, may be deemed to be undesirable by
the Central Government within the meaning of sub- section (1).
1\. Subs. by Act 41 of 1974, s. 5, for" Court" (w. e. f. 1- 2- 19 75).
2\. Ins. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 7.
3\. Subs. by s. 8, ibid., for sub- section (2).
21. Change of name by company. A company may, by special resolution and with the approval of the Central Government signified in writing, change its name: 1 Provided that no such approval shall be required where the only change in the name of a company is the addition thereto or, as the case may be, the deletion therefrom, of the word" Private", consequent on the conversion in accordance with the provisions of this Act of a public company into a private company or of a private company into a public company.]
22. Rectification of name of company.
(1) If, through inadvertence or otherwise, a company on its first registration
or on its registration by a new name, is registered by a name which, in the
opinion of the Central Government, is identical with, or too nearly resembles,
the name by which a company in existence has been previously registered,
whether under this Act or any previous companies law, the first- mentioned
company-
(a) may, by ordinary resolution and with the previous approval of the Central
Government signified in writing, change its name or new name; and
999999\. In its application to Government Companies, section 21 shall be read
along with the following proviso:" Provided that nothing in this section shall
apply to a Government Company where the change in its name consists only in
the deletion of the word' Private' therefrom": Vide Notification No. GSR 1649
dt. 13. 11. 65, Gaz. of India, Pt. II, Sec. 3 (i), p. 1733- 34 (issued under
s. 620).
1\. Added by Act 31 of 1965, s. 6 (w. e. f. 15- 10- 1965 ).
(b) shall, if the Central Government so, directs within twelve months of its
first registration or registration by its new name, as the case may be, or
within twelve months of the commencement of this Act, whichever is later, by
ordinary resolution and with the previous approval of the Central Government
signified in writing, change its name or new name within a period of three
months from the date of the direction or such longer period as the Central
Government may think fit to allow.
(2) If a company makes default in complying with any direction given under
clause (b) of sub- section (1), the company, and every officer who is in
default, shall be punishable with fine which may extend to one hundred rupees
for every day during which the default continues.
23. Registration of change of name and effect thereof.
(1) Where a company changes its name in pursuance of section 21 or 22, the
Registrar shall enter the new name on the Register in the place of the former
name, and shall issue a fresh certificate of incorporation with the necessary
alterations embodied therein; and the change of name shall be complete and
effective only on the issue of such a certificate.
(2) The Registrar shall also make the necessary alteration in the memorandum
of association of the company.
(3) The change of name shall not affect any rights or obligations of the
company, or render defective any legal proceedings by or against it; and any
legal proceedings which might have been continued or commenced by or against
the company by its former name may be continued by or against the company by
its new name.
24. Change of existing private limited companies.
(1) In the case of a company which was a private limited company immediately
before the commencement of this Act, the Registrar shall enter the word'
Private' before the word' Limited' in the name of the company upon the
register and shall also make the necessary alterations in the certificate of
incorporation issued to the company and in its memorandum of association.
(2) Sub- section (3) of section 23 shall apply to a change of name under sub-
section (1), as it applies to a change of name under section 21.
999999\. In its application to Government Companies section 23 shall be read
along with the following sub- section:-" (1A) Where the change in the name of
a Government Company consists only in the deletion of the word" Private"
therefrom, that Government Company shall, not later than three months from the
date thereof, inform the Registrar of the aforesaid change and thereupon the
Registrar shall delete the word' Private' before the word' Limited' in the
name of the Company upon the register and shall also make the necessary
alterations in the certificate of incorporation issued to the company": Vide
Notifn. No. (GSR 1649 dt. 13. 11. 1965, Gaz. of India, Pt. II, Sec. 3 (i), p-
1733- 34 (issued under s. 620).
25. Power to dispense with" Limited" in name of charitable or other company.
(1) Where it is proved to the satisfaction of the Central Government that an
association-
(a) is about to be formed as a limited company for promoting commerce, art,
science, religion, charity or any other useful object, and
(b) intends to apply its profits, if any, or other income in promoting its
objects, and to prohibit the payment of any dividend to its members, the
Central Government may, by licence, direct that the association may be
registered as a company with limited liability, without the addition to its
name of the word" Limited" or the words" Private Limited".
(2) The association may thereupon be registered accordingly; and on
registration shall enjoy all the privileges, and (subject to the provisions of
this section) be subject to all the obligations, of limited companies.
(3) Where it is proved to the satisfaction of the Central Government-
(a) that the objects of a company registered under this Act as a limited
company are restricted to those specified in clause (a) of sub- section (1);
and
(b) that by its constitution the company is required to apply its profits, if
any, or other income in promoting its objects and is prohibited from paying
any dividend to its members,
the Central Government may, by licence, authorise the company by a special
resolution to change its name, including or consisting of the omission of the
word" Limited" or the words" Private Limited"; and section 23 shall apply to a
change of name under this sub- section as it applies to a change of name under
section 21.
(4) A firm may be a member of any association or company licensed under this
section, but on the dissolution of the firm, its membership of the association
or company shall cease.
(5) A licence may be granted by the Central Government under this section on
such conditions and subject to such regulations as it thinks fit, and those
conditions and regulations shall be binding on the body to which the licence
is granted, and where the grant is under sub- section (1), shall, if the
Central Government so directs, be inserted in the memorandum, or in the
articles, or partly in the one and partly in the other.
(6) 1 It shall not be necessary for a body to which a licence is so granted to
use the word" Limited" or the words" Private Limited" as any part of its name
and, unless its articles otherwise provide, such body shall, if the Central
Government by general or special. order so directs and to the extent specified
in the direction, be exempt from such of the provisions of this Act as may be
specified therein.]
(7) The licence may at any time be revoked by the Central Gov- ernment, and
upon revocation, the Registrar shall enter the word" Limited" or the words"
Private Limited" at the end of the name upon the register of the body to which
it was granted; and the body shall cease to enjoy the exemption granted by
this section: Provided that, before a licence is so revoked, the Central
Government shall give notice in writing of its intention to the body, and
shall afford it an opportunity of being heard in opposition to the revocation.
(8) 2 (a) A body in respect of which a licence under this section is in force
shall not alter the provisions of its memorandum with respect to its objects
except with the previous approval of the Central Government signified in
writing.
(b) The Central Government may revoke the licence of such a body if it
contravenes the provisions of clause (a).
1\. Subs. by Act 65 of 1960 s. 9, for sub- section (6).
2\. Subs. by s. 9, ibid., for sub- section (8).
(c) In according the approval referred to in clause (a), the Central
Government may vary the licence by making it subject to such conditions and
regulations as that Government thinks fit, in lieu of, or in addition to, the
conditions and regulations, if any, to which the licence was formerly subject.
(d) Where the alteration proposed in the provisions of the memorandum of a
body under this sub- section is with respect to the objects of the body so far
as may be required to enable it to do any of the things specified in clauses
(a) to (g) of sub- section (1) of section 17, the provisions of this sub-
section shall be in addition to, and not in derogation of, the provisions of
that section.]
(9) Upon the revocation of a licence granted under this section to a body the
name of which contains the words" Chamber of Commerce", that body shall,
within a period of three months from the date of revocation or such longer
period as the Central Government may think fit to allow, change its name to a
name which does not contain those words; and-
(a) the notice to be given under the proviso to sub- section (7) to that body
shall include a statement of the effect of the foregoing provisions of this
sub- section; and
(b) section 23 shall apply to a change of name under this sub- section as it
applies to a change of name under section 21.
(10) If the body makes default in complying with the requirements of sub-
section (9), it shall be punishable with fine which may extend to five hundred
rupees for every day during which the default continues. Articles of
Association.
26. Articles prescribing regulations. There may in the case of a public company limited by shares, and there shall in the case of an unlimited company or a company limited by guarantee or a private company limited by shares, be registered with the memorandum, articles of association signed by the subscribers of the memorandum, prescribing regulations for the company.
27. Regulations required in case of unlimited company, company limited by guarantee or private company limited by shares.
(1) In the case of an unlimited company, the articles shall state the number
of members with which the company is to be registered and, if the company has
a share capital, the amount of share capital with which the Company is to be
registered.
(2) In the case of a company limited by guarantee, the articles shall state
the number of members with which the company is to be registered.
(3) In the case of a private company having a share capital, the articles
shall contain provisions relating to the matters specified in sub- clauses
(a), (b) and (c) of clause (iii) of sub- section (1) of section 3; and in the
case of any other private company, the articles shall contain provisions
relating to the matters specified in the said sub- clauses (b) and (c).
28. Adoption and application of Table A in the case of companies limited by shares.
(1) The articles of association of a company limited by shares may adopt all
or any of the regulations contained in Table A in Schedule I.
(2) In the case of any such company which is registered after the commencement
of this Act, if articles are not registered, or if articles are registered, in
so far as the articles do not exclude or modify the regulations contained in
Table A aforesaid, those regula- tions shall, so far as applicable, be the
regulations of the company in the same manner and to the same extent as if
they were contained in duly registered articles.
29. Form of articles in the case of other companies. The articles of a association of any company, not being a company limited by shares, shall be in such one of the Forms in Tables C, D and E in Schedule I as may be applicable, or in a Form as near thereto as circumstances admit: 1 Provided that nothing in this section shall be deemed to pre- vent a company from including any additional matters in its articles in so far as they are not inconsistent with the provisions contained in the Form in any of the Tables C, D and E, adopted by the company.]
30. Form and signature of articles. Articles shall-
(a) be printed;
(b) be divided into paragraphs numbered consecutively; and
(c) be signed by each subscriber of the memorandum of asso- ciation (who shall
add his address, description and occu- pation, if any,) in the presence of at
least one witness who shall attest the signature and shall likewise add his
address, description and occupation, if any.
1\. Ins. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 10.
31. Alteration of articles by special resolution.
(1) Subject to the provisions of this Act and to the conditions contained in
its memorandum, a company may, by special resolution, alter its articles: 1
Provided that no alteration made in the articles under this subsection which
has the effect of converting a public company into a private company, shall
have effect unless such alteration has been approved by the Central
Government.]
(2) Any alteration so made shall, subject to the provisions of this Act, be as
valid as if originally contained in the articles and be subject in like manner
to alteration by special resolution.
(2A) 1 Where any alteration such as is referred to in the proviso to sub-
section (1) has been approved by the Central Government, a printed copy of the
articles as altered shall be filed by the company with the Registrar within
one month of the date of receipt of the order of approval.]
(3) The power of altering articles under this section shall, in the case of
any company formed and registered under Act No. 19 of 1857 and Act No. 7 of
1360 or either of them, extend to altering any provisions in Table B annexed
to Act 19 of 1857 , and shall also, in the case of an unlimited company formed
and registered under the said Acts or either of them, extend to altering any
regulations relating to the amount of capital or its distribution into shares,
notwithstanding that those regulations are contained in the memorandum. Change
of registration of companies
32. Registration of unlimited company as limited, etc.
(1) Subject to the provisions of this section,-
(a) a company registered as unlimited may register under this Act as a limited
company; and
(b) a company already registered as a. limited company may re- register under
this Act.
(2) On registration pursuance of this section, the Registrar shall close the
former registration of the company, and may dispense with the delivery to him
of copies of any documents with copies of which he was furnished on the
occasion of the original registration of the company; but, save as aforesaid,
the registration shall take place in the same manner and shall have effect, as
if it were the first registration of the company under this Act.
1\. Ins. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 11.
(3) The registration of an unlimited company as a limited com- pany under this
section shall not affect any debts, liabilities, obligations or contracts
incurred or entered into, by, to, with or on behalf of, the company before the
registration, and those debts, liabilities, obligations and contracts may be
enforced in the manner provided by Part IX of this Act in the case of a
company registered in pursuance of that Part. General provisions with respect
to memorandum and articles.
33. Registration of memorandum and articles.
(1) There shall be presented for registration, to the Registrar of the State
in which the registered office of the company is stated by the memorandum to
be situate-
(a) the memorandum of the company;
(b) its articles, if any; and
(c) 1 the agreement, if any, which the company proposes to enter into with any
individual for appointment as its managing or whole- time director or
manager.]
(2) A declaration by an advocate of the Supreme Court or of a High Court, an
attorney or a plader entitled to appear before a High Court, or 2 a secretary,
or a chartered accountant, in whole- time practice in India"] who is engaged
in the formation of a company, or by a person named in the articles as a
director, 2 manager or secretary of the company, that all the requirements of
this Act and the rules thereunder have been complied with in respect of
registration and matters precede- nt and incidental thereto, shall be filed
with the Registrar; and the Registrar may accept such a declaration as
sufficient evidence of such compliance. 3 Explanation.- For the purposes of
this sub- section," chartered accountant in whole- time practice in India"
means a chartered accountant within the meaning of clause (b) of sub- section
(1) of section 2 of the Chartered Accountants Act, 1949 (38 of 1949 ), who is
practising in India and who is not in fultime employment.]
(3) If the Registrar is satisfied that all the requirements aforesaid have
been complied with by the company and that it is authorised to be registered
under this Act, he shall retain and register the memorandum, the articles, if
any, and the agreement referred to in clause (c) of sub- section (1), if any.
34. Effect of Registration.
(1) On the registration of the memorandum of a company, the Registrar shall
certify under his hand that the company is incorporated and, in the case of a
limited company, that the company is limited.
1\. Subs. by Act 31 of 1988, s. 6 (w. e. f. 15- 6- 1988 ).
2\. Omitted by s. 6, ibid. (w. e. f. 15- 6- 1988 ).
3\. Added by s. 6, ibid (w. e. f. 15- 6- 1988 ).
(2) From the date of incorporation mentioned in the certificate of
incorporation, such of the subscribers of the memorandum and other persons, as
may from time to time be members of the company, shall be a body corporate by
the name contained in the memorandum, capable forthwith of exercising all the
functions of an incorporated company, and having perpetual succession and a
common seal, but with such liability on the part of the members to contribute
to the assets of the company in the event of its being wound up as is
mentioned in this Act.
35. Conclusiveness of certificate of incorporation. A certificate of incorporation given by the Registrar in respect of any association shall be conclusive evidence that all the requirements of this Act have been complied with in respect of registration and matters precedent and incidental thereto, and that the association is a company authorised to be registered and duly registered under this Act.
36. Effect of memorandum and articles.
(1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, the memorandum and articles shall,
when registered, bind the company and the members thereof to the same extent
as if they respectively had been signed by the company and by each member, and
contained covenants on its and his part to observe all the provisions of the
memorandum and of the articles.
(2) All money payable by any member to the company under the memorandum or
articles shall be a debt due from him to the company.
37. Provision as to companies limited by guarantee.
(1) In the case of a company limited by guarantee and not having a share
capital, and registered on or after the first day of April, 1914 , every
provision in the memorandum or articles or in any resolution of the company
purporting to give any person a right to participate in the divisible profits
of the company otherwise than as a member shall be void.
(2) For the purpose of the provisions of this Act relating to the memorandum
of a company limited by guarantee and of this section, every provision in the
memorandum or articles, or in any resolution, of any company limited by
guarantee and registered on or after the first day of April, 1914 , purporting
to divide the undertaking of the company into shares or interests, shall be
treated as a provision for a share capital, notwithstanding that the nominal
amount or number of the shares or interests is not specified thereby.
38. Effect of alteration in memorandum or articles. Notwithstanding anything in the memorandum or articles of a company, no member of the company shall be bound by an alteration made in the memorandum or articles after the date on which he became a member, if and so far as the alteration requires him to take or subscribe for more shares than the number held by him at the date on which the alteration is made, or in any way increases his liability as at that date, to contribute to the share capital of, or otherwise to pay money to, the company: 1 Provided that this section shall not apply-
(a) in any case where the member agrees in writing either before or after a
particular alteration is made, to be bound by the alteration; or
(b) in any case where the company is a club or the company is any other
association and the alteration requires the member to pay recurring or
periodical subscriptions or charges at a higher rate although he does not
agree in writing to be bound by the alteration.]
39. Copies of memorandum and articles, etc, to be given to members.
(1) A company shall, on being so required by a member, send to him within
seven days of the requirement and subject to the payment of a fee of one
rupee, a copy each of the following documents as in force for the time being-
(a) the memorandum;
(b) the articles, if any;
(c) the agreement, if any, entered into or proposed to be entered into, by the
company with any person appointed or to be appointed as its managing agent or
as its secretaries and treasurers; and
(d) every other agreement and every resolution referred to in section 192, if
and in so far as they have not been embodied in the memorandum or articles.
(2) If a company makes default in complying with the requirements of this
section, the company, and every officer of the company who is in default,
shall be punishable, for each offence, with fine which may extend to fifty
rupees.
40. Alteration of memorandum or articles, etc., to be noted in every copy.
(1) Where an alteration is made in the memorandum or articles of a company, in
the agreement referred to in clause (c) of
1\. Subs. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 12, for the proviso.
sub- section (1) of section 39 or in any other agreement, or any resolution,
referred to in section 192, every copy of the memorandum, articles, agreement
or resolution issued after the date of the alteration shall be in accordance
with the alteration.
(2) If, at any time, the company issues any copies of the memo- randum,
articles, resolution or agreement, which are not in accordance with the
alteration or alterations made therein before that time, the company, and
every officer of the company who is in default, shall be punishable with fine
which may extend to ten rupees for each copy so issued. Membership of company
41. Definition of" member".
(1) The subscribers of the memorandum of a company shall be deemed to have
agreed to become members of the company, and on its registration, shall be
entered as members in its register of members.
(2) Every other person who 1 agrees in writing] to become a member of a
company and whose name is entered in its register of members, shall be a
member of the company.
(3) 2 Every person holding equity share capital or company and whose name is
entered as beneficial owner in the records of the depository shall be deemed
to be a members of the conserned company.]
42. Membership of holding company.
(1) Except in the cases mentioned in this section, a body corporate cannot be
a member of a company which is its holding company and any allotment or
transfer of shares in a company to its subsidiary shall be void.
(2) Nothing in this section shall apply-
(a) where the subsidiary is concerned as the legal representative of a
deceased member of the holding company; or
(b) where the subsidiary is concerned as trustee, unless the holding company
or a subsidiary thereof is beneficially interested under the trust and is not
so interested only by way of security for the purposes of a transaction
entered into by it in the ordinary course of a business which includes the
lending of money.
(3) This section shall not prevent a subsidiary from continuing to be a member
of its holding company if it was a member thereof either at the commencement
of this Act or before becoming a subsidiary of the holding company, but,
except in the cases referred to in sub- section (2), the subsidiary shall have
no right to vote at meetings of the holding company or of any class of members
thereof.
1\. Subs. by Act 65 of 1960, s, 13, for" agrees."
2\. Ins. by Act 22 of 1996, s. 31 and Sch. (w. e. f. 20- 9- 1995 ).
(4) Subject to sub- section (2), sub- sections (1) and (3) shall apply in
relation to a nominee for a body corporate which is a subsidiary, as if
references in the said sub- sections (1) and (3) to such a body corporate
included references to a nominee for it.
(5) In relation to a holding company which is either a company limited by
guarantee or an unlimited company, the reference in this section to shares
shall, whether or not the company has a share capital, be construed as
including a reference to the interest of its members as such, whatever the
form of that interest. Private companies
43. Consequences of default in complying with conditions constituting a company a private company. Where the articles of a company include the provisions which, under clause (iii) of sub- section
(1) of section 3, are required to be included in the articles of a company in
order to constitute it a private company, but default is made in complying
with any of those provisions, the company shall cease to be entitled to the
privileges and exemptions conferred on private companies by or under this Act,
and this Act shall apply to the company as if it were not a private company:
Provided that the 1 Company Law Board] on being satisfied that the failure to
comply with the conditions was accidental or due to inadvertence or to some
other sufficient cause, or that on other grounds it is just and equitable to
grant relief, may, on the application of the company or any other person
interested and on such terms and conditions as seem to the 1 Company Law
Board] just and expedient, order that the company be relieved from such
consequences as aforesaid.
43A. 2 Private company to become public company in certain cases.
(1) Save as otherwise provided in this section, where not less than twenty-
five per cent. of the paid- up share capital of a private company having a
share capital, is held by one or more bodies cor- porate, the private company
shall,-
(a) on and from the date on which the aforesaid percentage is first held by
such body or bodies corporate, or
(b) where the aforesaid percentage has been first so held before the
commencement of the Companies (Amendment) Act, 1960 (65 of 1960 ), on and from
the expiry of the period of three months from the date of such commencement
unless within that period the aforesaid percentage is reduced
1\. Subs. by Act 31 of 1988, s. 67 (w. e. f. 31- 5- 1991 ).
2\. Ins. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 14.
below twenty- five per cent. of the paid- up share capital of the private
company, become by virtue of this section a public company: Provided that even
after the private company has so become a public company, its articles of
association may include provisions relating to the matters specified in clause
(iii) of sub- section (1) of section 3 and the number of its members may be,
or may at any time be reduced, below seven: Provided further that in computing
the aforesaid percentage, account shall not be taken of any share in the
private company held by a banking company, if, but only if, the following
conditions are satisfied in respect of such share, namely:-
(a) that the share-
(i) forms part of the subject- matter of a trust,
(ii) has not been set apart for the benefit of any body corporate, and
(iii) is held by the banking company either as a trustee of that trust or in
its own name on behalf of a trustee of that trust; or
(b) that the share-
(i) forms part of the estate of a deceased person,
(ii) has not been bequeathed by the deceased person by his will to any body
corporate, and
(iii) is held by the banking company either as an executor or administrator of
the deceased person or in its own name on behalf of an executor or
administrator of the deceased person; and the Registrar may, for the purpose
of satisfying himself that any share is held in the private company by a
banking company as aforesaid, call for at any time from the banking company
such books and papers as he considers necessary. 1 Explanation.- For the
purposes of this sub- section," bodies corporate" means public companies, or
private companies which had become public companies by virtue of this
section.]
(1A) 2 Without prejudice to the provisions of sub- section (1), where the
average annual turnover of a private company, whether in existence at the
commencement of the Companies (Amendment) Act,
1\. Added by Act 31 of 1988, s. 7 (w. e. f. 15. 6. 1988 ).
2\. Ins. by Act 41 of 1974 s. 6 (w. e. f. 1- 2- 1975 ).
1974 , (41 of 1974 ) or incorporated thereafter, is not, during the relevant
period 1 less than such amount as may be prescribed] the pri- vate company
shall, irrespective of its paid- up share capital, become, on and from the
expiry of a period of three months from the last day of the relevant period
during which the private company had the said average annual turnover, a
public company by virtue of this sub- section: Provided that even after the
private company has so become a public company, its articles of association
may include provisions relating to the matters specified in clause (iii) of
sub- section (1) of section 3 and the number of its members may be, or may at
any time be reduced, below seven.
(1B) Where not less than twenty- five per cent. of the paid- up share capital
of a public company, having share capital, is held by a private company, the
private company shall,-
(a) on and from the date on which the aforesaid percentage is first held by it
after the commencement of the Companies (Amendment) Act, 1974 , (41 of 1974 ),
or
(b) where the aforesaid percentage has been first so held before the
commencement of the Companies (Amendment) Act, 1974 , (41 of 1974 ) on and
from the expiry of the period of three months from the date of such
commencement, unless within that period the aforesaid percentage is reduced
below twenty- five per cent. of the paid- up share capital of the public
company, become, by virtue of this sub- section, a public company, and
thereupon all other provisions of this section shall apply thereto: Provided
that even after the private company has so become a public company, its
articles of association may include provisions relating to the matters
specified in clause (iii) of sub- section (1) of section 3 and the number of
its members may be, or may at any time be reduced, below seven.]
(1C) 2 Where, after the commencement of the Companies (Amendment) Act, 1988 ,
(31 of 1988 ) a private company accepts, after an invitation is made by an
advertisement, or renews, deposits from the public, other than its members,
directors or their relatives, such private company shall, on and from the date
on which such acceptance or renewal, as the case may be, is first made after
such commencement, become a public company and thereupon all the provisions of
this section shall apply thereto: Provided that even after the private company
has so become a public company, its articles of association may include
provisions relating to the matters specified in clause (iii) of sub- section
(1) of section 3 and the number of its members may be, or may at any time be,
reduced below seven.]
(2) Within three months from the date on which a private company becomes a
public company by virtue of this section, the company shall inform the
Registrar that it has become a public company as aforesaid, and thereupon the
Registrar shall delete the word" Private" before the word" Limited" in the
name of the company upon the register and shall also make the necessary
alterations in the certificate of incorporation issued to the company and in
its memorandum of association.
1\. Subs. by Act 31 of 1988, s. 7 (w. e. f. 15. 6. 88). 2 Ins. by s. 7, ibid
(w. e. f. 15. 6. 88).
(3) Sub- section (3) of section 23 shall apply to a change of name under sub-
section (2) as it applies to a change of name under section 21.
(4) A private company which has become a public company by virtue of this
section shall continue to be a public company until it has, with the approval
of the Central Government and in accordance with the provisions of this Act,
again become a private company.
(5) If a company makes default in complying with sub- section (2), the company
and every officer of the company who is in default, shall be punishable with
fine which may extend to five hundred rupees for every day during which the
default continues. 1
1\. Omitted by Act 31 of 1988, s. 7 (w. e. f. 15- 6- 1988 ).
(8) Every private company having a share capital shall, in addition to the
certificate referred to in sub- section (2) of section 161, file with the
Registrar along with the annual return a second certificate signed by both the
signatories of the return, stating either-
(a) that since the date of the annual general meeting with reference to which
the last return was submitted, or in the case of a first return, since the
date of the incorporation of the private company, no body or bodies corporate
has or have held twenty- five per cent. or more of its paid- up share capital,
1 1
(c) 2 that the private company, irrespective of its paid- up share capital,
did not have, during the relevant period, an average annual turnover of 3 such
amount as is referred to in such- section (1A) or more.]]
(d) 4 that the private company did not accept or renew deposits from the
public.]
(9) 2 Every private company, having share capital, shall file with the
Registrar along with the annual return a certificate signed by both the
signatories of the return, stating that since the date of the annual general
meeting with reference to which the last return was submitted, or in the case
of a first return, since the date of the incorporation of the private company,
it did not hold twenty- five per cent. or more of the paid- up share capital
of one or more public companies.
(10) 4 Subject to the other provisions of this Act, any reference in this
section to accepting, after an invitation is made by an advertisement, or
renewing deposits from the public shall be construed as including a reference
to accepting, after an invitation is made by an advertisement, or renewing
deposits from any section of the public and the provisions of section 67
shall, so far as may be, apply, as if the reference to invitation to the
public to subscribe for shares or debentures occurring in that section,
includes a reference to invitation from the public for acceptance of
deposits.]
1\. Omitted by Act 31 of 1988, s. 7 (w. e. f. 15. 6. 88).
2\. Ins. by Act 41 of 1974, s. 6 (w. e. f. 1- 2- 1975 ).
3\. Subs. by Act 31 of 1988 s. 7 (w. e. f. 15- 6- 88).
4\. Ins. by s. 7, ibid (w. e. f. 15- 6- 1988 ).
Explanation.- For the purposes of this section,--
(a) " relevant period" means the period of three consecutive financial years,-
(i) immediately preceding the commencement of the Companies (Amendment) Act,
1974 , (41 of 1974 ), or
(ii) a part of which immediately preceded such commencement and the other part
of which immediately, followed such commencement, or
(iii) immediately following such commencement or at any time thereafter;
(b) " turnover", of a company, means the aggregate value of the realisation
made from the sale, supply or distribution of goods or on account of services
rendered, or both, by the company during a financial year.]
(c) 1 " deposit" has the same meaning as in section 58A.]
44. Prospectus or statement in lieu of prospectus to be filed by private company on ceasing to be private company.
(1) If a company, being a private company, alters its article in such a manner
that they no longer include the provisions which, under clause (iii) of sub-
section (1) of section 3, are required to be included in the articles of a
company in order to constitute it a private company, the company-
(a) shall, as on the date of the alteration, cease to be a private company;
and
(b) shall, within a period of 2 thirty] days after the said date, file with
the Registrar either a prospectus or a statement in lieu of prospectus, as
specified in sub- section (2).
(2) (a) Every prospectus filed under sub- section (1) shall state the matters
specified in Part I of Schedule II and set out the reports specified in Part
II of that Schedule, and the said Parts I and II shall have effect subject to
the provisions contained in Part III of that Schedule.
(b) Every statement in lieu of prospectus filed under sub- section (1) shall
be in the form and contain the particulars set out in Part I of Schedule IV,
and in the cases mentioned in Part II of the Schedule, shall set out the
reports specified therein, and the said Parts I and II
1\. Ins. by Act 31 of 1988, s. 7 (w. e. f. 15- 6- 1988 ).
2\. Subs. by Act 31 of 1965, s. 62 and Sch., for" fourteen" (w. e. f. 15- 10-
1965 ).
shall have effect subject to the provisions contained in Part III of that
Schedule.
(c) Where the persons making any such report as is referred to in clause (a)
or (b) have made therein, or have, without giving the reasons indicated
therein, any such adjustments as are mentioned in clause 32 of Schedule II or
clause 5 of Schedule IV, as the case may be, the prospectus or statement in
lieu of prospectus filed as aforesaid, shall have endorsed thereon or attached
thereto, a written
statement signed by those persons, setting out the adjustments and giving the
reasons therefor.
(3) If default is made in complying with sub- section (1) or (2), the company,
and every officer of the company who is in default, shall be punishable with
fine which may extend to five hundred rupees for every day during which the
default continues.
(4) Where any prospectus or statement in lieu of prospectus filed under this
section includes any untrue statement, any person who authorised the filing of
such prospectus or statement shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term
which may extend to two years, or with fine which may extend to five thousand
rupees, or with both, unless he proves either that the statement was
immaterial or that he had reasonable ground to believe, and did up to the time
of the filing of the prospectus or statement believe, that the statement was
true.
(5) For the purposes of this section-
(a) a statement included in a prospectus or a statement in lieu of prospectus
shall be deemed to be untrue if it is misleading in the form and context in
which it is included; and
(b) where the omission from a prospectus or a statement in lieu of prospectus
of any matter is calculated to mislead, the prospects or statement in lieu of
prospectus shall be deemed, in respect of such omission, to be a prospectus or
a statement in lieu of prospectus in which an untrue statement is included.
(6) For the purposes of sub- section (4) and clause (a) of sub- section (5),
the expression" included" when used with reference to a prospectus or
statement in lieu of prospectus, means included in the prospectus or statement
in lieu of prospectus itself or contained in any report or memorandum
appearing on the face thereof, or by reference incorporated therein. Reduction
of Number of Members below Legal Minimum
45. Members severally liable for debts where business carried on with fewer than seven, or in the case of a private company, two members. If at any time the number of members of a company is reduced, in the case of a public company, below seven, or in the case of a private company, below two, and the company carries on business for more than six months while the number is so reduced, every person who is a member of the company during the time that it so carries on business after those six months and is cognisant of the fact that it is carrying on business with fewer than seven members or two
members, as the case may be, shall be severally liable for the payment of the
whole debts of the company contracted during that time, and may be severally
sued therefor. Contracts and deeds, investments, seal, etc.
46. Form of contracts.
(1) Contracts on behalf of a company may be made as follows:-
(a) a contract which, if made between private persons, would by law be
required to be in writing signed by the parties to be charged therewith, may
be made on behalf of the company in writing signed by any person acting under
its authority, express or implied, and may in the same manner be varied or
discharged;
(b) a contract which, if made between private persons, would by law be valid
although made by parol only and not reduced into writing, may be made by parol
on behalf of the company by any person acting under its authority, express or
implied, and may in the same manner be varied or discharged.
(2) A contract made according to this section shall bind the company.
47. Bills of exchange and promissory notes. A bill of exchange, hundi or promissory note shall be deemed to have been made, accepted, drawn or endorsed on behalf of a company if drawn, accepted, made, or endorsed in the name of, or on behalf or on account of, the company by any person acting under its authority, express or implied.
48. Execution of deeds.
(1) A company any, by writing under its common seal, empower any person,
either generally or in respect of any specified matters, as its attorney, to
execute deeds on its behalf in any place either in or outside India.
(2) A deed signed by such an attorney on behalf of the company and under his
seal where sealing is required, shall bind the company and have the same
effect as if it were under its common seal.
49. Investments of company to be held in its own name.
(1) Save as otherwise provided in sub- sections (2) to (5) 1 or any other law
for the time being in force] and subject to the provisions of sub- sections
(6) to (8),-
(a) all investments made by a company on its own behalf shall be made and held
by it in its own name; and
1\. Ins. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 15.
(b) where any such investments are not so held at the commencement of this Act
the company shall, within a period of one year from such commencement, either
cause them to be transferred to, and hold them in, its own name, or dispose of
them.
(2) Where the company has a right to appoint any person or persons, or where
any nominee or nominees of the company has or have been appointed, as a
director or directors of any other body corporate, shares in such other body
corporate to an amount not exceeding the nominal value of the qualification
shares which are required to be held by a director thereof, may be registered
or held by such company jointly in the names of itself and of each such person
or nominee or in the name of each such person or nominee 1 .
(3) A company may hold any shares in its subsidiary in the name or names of
any nominee or nominees of the company, if and in so far as it is necessary so
to do, to ensure that the number of members of the subsidiary is not reduced,
where it is a public company, below seven, and where it is a private company,
below two.
(4) Sub- section (1) shall not apply to investments made by a company whose
principal business consists of the buying and selling of shares or securities.
(5) Nothing in this section shall be deemed to prevent a company-
(a) from depositing,, with a bank, being the bankers of the company, any
shares or securities for the collection of any dividend or interest payable
thereon; or
(aa) 2 from depositing with, or transferring to, or holding in the name of,
the State Bank of India or a Scheduled Bank, being the bankers of the company,
shares or securities, in order to facilitate the transfer thereof; Provided
that if thin a period of six months from the date on which the shares or
securities are transferred by the company to, or are first held by the company
in the name of, the State Bank of India or a Scheduled Bank as aforesaid, no
transfer of such shares or securities takes place, the company shall, as soon
as practicable after the expiry
1\. The words" expressly described as a nominee of the company" omitted by Act
65 of 1960, s. 15.
2\. Ins. by s. 15, ibid.
of that period, have the shares or securities retransferred to it from the
State Bank of India or the Scheduled Bank or, as the case may be, again hold
the shares or securities in its own name; or]
(b) from depositing with, or transferring to, any person any shares or
securities, by way of security for the repayment of any loan advanced to the
company or the performance of any obligation undertaken by it.
(c) 1 from holding investments in the name of a depository when such
investment are in the form of Securities held by the company as a beneficial
owner.]
(6) The certificate or letter of allotment relating to the shares or
securities in which investments have been made by a company shall, except in
the cases referred to in sub- sections (4) and (5), be in the custody of such
company or 2 with the State Bank of India or a Scheduled Bank], being the
bankers of the company.
(7) Where, in pursuance of sub- section (2), (3), (4) or (5), any shares or
securities in which investments have been made by a company are not held by it
in its own name, the company shall forthwith enter in a register maintained by
it for the purpose-
(a) the nature, value, and such other particulars as may be necessary fully to
identify the shares or securities in question; and
(b) the bank or person in whose name or custody the shares or securities are
held.
(8) The register kept under sub- section (7) shall be open to the inspection
of any member or debenture holder of the company without charge, during
business hours, subject to such reasonable restrictions as the company may, by
its articles or in general meeting, impose, so that not less than two hours in
each day are allowed for inspection.
(9) If default is made in complying with any of the requirements of
subsections (1) to (8), the company and every officer of the company who is in
default, shall be punishable with fine which may extend to five thousand
rupees.
(10) If any inspection required under sub- section (8) is refused, the 3
Company Law Board] may, by order, direct an immediate inspec- tion, of the
register. Nothing in this sub- section shall be construed as prejudicing in
any way the operation of sub- section (9).
(11) in this section," Securities" includes stock and debentures.
1\. Ins. by Act 22 of 1996 s. 31 and Sch. (w. e. f. 20- 9- 1995 ).
2\. Subs. by Act 65 of 1960 s. 15, for" with a Scheduled Bank".
3\. Subs. by Act 31 of 1988, s. 67 (w. e. f. 31- 5- 1991 ).
50. Power for company to have official seal for use outside India.
(1) A company whose objects require or comprise the transaction of business
outside India may, if authorised by its articles, have for use in any
territory, district or place not situate in India an official seal which shall
be a facsimile of the common seal of the company, with the addition on its
face of the name of the territory, district or place where it is to be used.
(2) A company having an official seal for use in any such terri- tory,
district or place may by writing under its common seal, autho- rise any person
appointed for the purpose in that territory, district or place to affix the
official seal to any deed or other document to which the company is a party in
that territory, district or place.
(3) The authority of any agent authorised under sub- section (2) shall, as
between the company and any person dealing with the agent, continue during the
period, if any, mentioned in the instrument conferring the authority, or if no
period is there mentioned, until notice of the revocation or determination of
the agents authority has been given to the person dealing with him.
(4) The person affixing any such official seal shall, by writing under his
hand, certify on the deed or other document to which the seal is affixed, the
date on which and the place at which, it is affixed.
(5) A deed or other document to which an official seal is duly affixed shall
bind the company as if it had been sealed with the common seal of the company.
Service of Documents
51. Service of documents on company. A document may be served on a company or an officer thereof by sending it to the company or officer at the registered office of the company by post under certificate of posting or by registered post, or by leaving it at its registered office: 1 Provided that where the securities are held in a depository, the records of the beneficial ownership may be served by such depository on the company by means of electronic mode or by delivery of floppies or discs.]
52. Service of documents on Registrar. A document may be served on a Registrar by sending it to him at,, his office by post, under a certificate of posting or by registered post,' or by delivering it to or leaving it for, him at his office.
53. Service of documents on members by company.
(1) A document may be served by a company on any member thereof either
personally, or by sending it by post to him to his registered address, or if
he has no registered address in India, to the address, if any, within India
supp- lied by him to the company for the giving of notices to him.
(2) Where a document is sent by post,-
(a) service thereof shall be deemed to be effected by properly addressing,
prepaying and posting a letter containing the
1\. Ins. by Act 22 of 1996, s. 31 and Sch. (w. e. f. 20- 9- 1995 ).
document, provided that where a member has intimated to the company in advance
that documents should be sent to him under a certificate of posting or by
registered post with or without acknowledgement due and has deposited with the
company a sum sufficient to defray the expenses of doing so, service of the
document shall not be deemed to be effected unless it is sent in the manner
intimated by the member; and
(b) 1 such service shall be deemed to have been effected- (i) in the case of a
notice of a meeting, at the expiration of forty- eight hours after the letter
containing the same is posted, and
(ii) in any other case, at the time at which the letter would be delivered in
the ordinary course of post.
(3) A document advertised in a newspaper circulating in the neighbourhood of
the registered office of the company shall be deemed to be duly served on the
day on which the advertisement appears, on every member of the company who has
no registered address in India and has not supplied to the company an address
within India for the giving of notices to him.
(4) A document may be served by the company on the jointholders of a share by
serving it on the joint- holder named first in the register in respect of the
share.
(5) A document may be served by the company on the persons entitled to a share
in consequence of the death or insolvency of a member by sending it through
the post in a prepaid letter addressed to them by name, or by the title of
representatives of the deceased, or assignees of the insolvent, or by any like
description, at the address, if any, in India supplied for the purpose by the
persons claiming to be so entitled, or until such an address has been so
supplied, by serving the document in any manner in which it might have been
served if the death or insolvency had not occurred. Authentication of
Documents and Proceedings
54. Authentication of documents and proceedings. Save as otherwise expressly provided in this Act, a document or proceeding requiring authentication by a company may be signed by a director, the managing agent the secretaries and treasurers, the manager, the secretary or other authorised officer of the company, and need not be under its common seal.
1\. The words" unless the contrary is proved," omitted by Act 65 of 1960, s.
16.
PART III PROSPECTUS AND ALLOTMENT, AND OTHER MATTERS RELATING TO ISSUE OF
SHARES OR DEBENTURES Prospectus
55. Dating of prospectus. A prospectus issued by or on behalf of a company or in relation to an intended company shall be dated, and that date shall, unless the contrary is proved, be taken as the date of publication of the prospectus.
56. Matters to be stated and reports to be set out in prospectus.
(1) Every prospectus issued-
(a) by or on behalf of a company, or
(b) by or on behalf of any person who is or has been engaged or interested in
the formation of a company, shall state the matters specified in Part I of
Schedule II and set out the reports specified in Part II of that Schedule; and
the said Parts I and II shall have effect subject to the provisions contained
in Part III of that Schedule.
(2) A condition requiring or binding an applicant for shares in or debentures
of a company to waive compliance with any of the requirements of this section,
or purporting to affect him with notice of any contract, document or matter
not specifically referred to in the prospectus, shall be void.
(3) No one shall issue any form of application for shares in or debentures of
a company, unless the form is accompanid 1 by memorandum containing such
salient features or a prospectus as may be prescribed] which complies with he
requirements of this section: 1 Provided that a copy of the prospectus shall,
on a request being made by any person before the closing of the subscription
list, be furnished to him: Provided further that this sub- section shall not
apply if it is shown that the form of application was issued either-
(a) in connection with a bona fide invitation to a person to enter into an
underwriting agreement with respect to the shares or debentures; or
(b) in relation to shares or debentures which were not offered to the public.
If any person acts in contravention of the provisions of this sub- section, he
shall be punishable with fine which may extend to five thousand rupees.
(4) A director or other person responsible for the prospectus shall not incur
any liability by reason of any non- compliance with, or
1\. Subs. by Act 31 of 1988, s. 8 (w. e. f. 31- 5- 1991 ).
contravention of, any of the requirements of this section, if-
(a) as regards any matter not disclosed, he proves that he had no knowledge
thereof; or
(b) he proves that the non- compliance or contravention arose from an honest
mistake of fact on his part; or
(c) the non- compliance or contravention was in respect of matters which, in
the opinion of the Court dealing with the case 1 were immaterial], or was
otherwise such as ought, in the opinion of that Court, having regard to all
the circumstances of the case, reasonably to be excused: Provided that no
director or other person shall incur any liability in respect of the failure
to include in a pros- pectus a statement with respect to the matters specified
in clause 18 of Schedule II, unless it is proved that he had knowledge of the
matters not disclosed.
(5) This section shall not apply-
(a) to the issue to existing members or debenture holders of a company of a
prospectus or form of application relating to shares in or debentures of the
company, whether an applicant for shares or debentures will or will not have
the right to renounce in favour of other persons; or
(b) to the issue of a prospectus or form of application relating to shares or
debentures which are, or are to be, in all respects uniform with shares or
debentures previously issued and for the time being dealt in or quoted on a
recognised stock exchange; but, subject as aforesaid, this section shall apply
to a prospectus or a form of application, whether issued on or with reference
to the formation of a company or subsequently.
(6) Nothing in this section shall limit or diminish any liability which any
person may incur under the general law or under this Act apart from this
section.
57. Expert to be unconnected with formation or management of company. A prospectus inviting persons to subscribe for shares in or debentures of a company shall not include a statement purporting to be made by an expert, unless the expert is a person who is not, and has not been, engaged or interested in the formation or promotion, or in the management, of the company.
1\. Subs. by Act 52 of 1964 s. 3 and Sch. II, for" was immaterial".
58. Expert' s consent to issue of prospectus containing statement by him. A prospectus inviting persons to subscribe for shares in or debentures of a company and including a statement purporting to be made by an expert shall not be issued, unless-
(a) he has given his written consent to the issue thereof with the statement
included in the form and context in which it is included, and has not
withdrawn such consent before the delivery of a copy of the prospectus for
registration; and
(b) a statement that he has given and has not withdrawn his consent as
aforesaid appears in the prospectus.
58A. 1 Deposits not to be invited without issuing an advertisement.
(1) The Central Government may, in consultation with the Reserve Bank of
India, prescribe the limits up to which, the manner in which and the
conditions subject to which deposits may be invited or accepted by a company
either from the public or from its members.
(2) No company shall invite, or allow any other person to invite or cause to
be invited on its behalf, any deposit unless-
(a) such deposit is invited or is caused to be invited in accordance with the
rules made under sub- section (1), and
(b) an advertisement, including therein a statement showing the financial
position of the company, has been issued by the company in such form and in
such manner as may be prescribed.
(3) (a) Every deposit accepted by a company at any time before the
commencement of the Companies (Amendment) Act, 1974 , (41 of 1974 ). in
accordance with the directions made by the Reserve Bank of India under Chapter
IIIB of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 , (2 of 1934 ) shall, unless
renewed in accordance with clause (b), be repaid in accordance with the 2
terms and conditions of such deposit.]
(b) No deposit referred to in clause (a) shall be renewed by the company after
the expiry of the term thereof unless the deposit is such that it could have
been accepted if the rules made under sub- section (1) were in force at the
time when the deposit was initially accepted by the company.
1\. Ins. by Act 41 of 1974, s. 7 (w. e. f. 1- 2- 1975 ).
2\. Subs. by Act 31 of 1988, s. 9 (w. e. f. 1. 9. 1989 ).
(c) Where, before the commencement of the Companies (Amendment) Act, 1974 (41
of 1974 ), any deposit was received by a company in con- travention any
direction made under Chapter IIIB of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 (2 of
1934 ), repayment of such deposit shall be made in full on or before the 1st
day of April, 1975 and such repayment shall be without prejudice to any action
that may be taken under the Reserve bank of India Act, 1934 for the acceptance
of such deposit in contravention of such direction.
(3A) 1 Every deposit accepted by a company after the commencement of the
Companies (Amendment) Act, 1988 , shall, unless renewed in accordance with the
rules made under subsection (1), be repaid in accordance with the terms and
conditions of such deposit.]
(4) Where any deposit is accepted by a company after the com- mencement of the
Companies (Amendment) Act, 1974 (41 of 1974 ), in cont- ravention of the rules
made under sub- section (1), repayment of such deposit shall be made by the
company within thirty days from the date of acceptance of such deposit or
within such further time, not excee- ding thirty days, as the Central
Government may, on sufficient cause being shown by the company, allow.
(5) Where a company omits or fails to make repayment of a deposit in
accordance with the provisions of clause (c) of sub- section (3), or in the
case of a deposit referred to in sub- section (4), within the time specified
in that sub- section,-
(a) the company shall be punishable with fine which shall not be less than
twice the amount in relation to which the repayment of the deposit has not
been made, and out of the fine, if realised, an amount equal to the amount in
relation to which the repayment of deposit has not been made, shall be paid by
the Court, trying the offence, to the person to whom repayment of the deposit
was to be made, and on such payment, the liability of the company to make
repayment of the deposit shall, to the extent of the amount paid by the Court,
stand discharged;
(b) every officer of the company who is in default shall be punishable with
imprisonment for a term which may extend to five years and shall also be
liable to fine.
(6) Where a company accepts or invites, or allows or causes any other person
to accept or invite on its behalf, any deposit in excess of the limits
prescribed under sub- section (1) or in contravention of
1\. Ins. by Act 31 of 1988, s. 9 (w. e. f. 1. 9. 1989 ).
the manner or condition prescribed under that sub- section or in con-
travention of the provisions of subsection (2), as the case may be,-
(a) the company shall be punishable,-
(i) where such contravention relates to the acceptance of any deposit, with
fine which shall not be less than an amount equal to the amount of the deposit
so accepted,
(ii) where such contravention relates to the invitation of any deposit, with
fine which may extend to one lakh rupees but shall not be less than five
thousand rupees;
(b) every officer of the company who is in default shall be punishable with
imprisonment for a term which may extend to five years and shall also be
liable to fine.
(7) (a) Nothing contained in this section shall apply to,--
(i) a banking company, or
(ii) such other company as the Central Government may, after consultation with
the Reserve Bank of India, specify in this behalf.
(b) Except the provisions relating to advertisement contained in clause (b) of
sub- section (2), nothing in this section shall apply to such closess of
financial companies as the Central Government may after consulationwith the
Reserve Bank of India, specify in this behalf.
(8) 1 The Central Government may, if it considers it necessary for avoiding
any hardship or for any other just and sufficient reason by order issued
either prospectively or retrospectively from a date not earlier than the
commencement of the Companies (Amendment) Act, 1974 (41 of 1974 ), grant
extension of time to a company or class of companies to comply with, or exempt
any company or class of companies from, all or any of the provisions of this
section either generally or for any specified period subject to such
conditions as may be specified in the order: Provided that no order under this
sub- section shall be issued in relation to a class of companies except after
consultation with the Reserve Bank of India.]
(9) 2 Where a company has failed to repay any deposit or part thereof in
accordance with the terms and conditions of such deposit, the Company Law
Board may, if it is satisfied, either on its own motion or on the application
of the depositor, that it is necessary so to do to safeguard the interests of
the company, the depositors or in the public interest, direct, by order, the
company to make repayment of such deposit or part thereof forthwith or within
such time and subject to such conditions as may be specified in the order:
Provided that the Company Law Board may, before making any order under this
sub- section, give a reasonable opportunity of being heard to the company and
the other persons interested in the matter.
(10) Whoever fails to comply with any order made by the Company Law Board
under sub- section (9) shall be punishable with imprisonment which may extend
to three years and shall also be liable to a fine of not less than rupees
fifty for every day during which such noncompliance continues.]
1\. Ins. by Act 46 of 1977, s. 3.
2\. Ins. by Act 31 of 1988, s. 9 (w. e. f. 1. 9. 1989 ).
Explanation.- For the purposes of this section" deposit" means any deposit of
money with, and includes any amount borrowed by, a company but shall not
include such categories of amount as may be prescribed in consultation with
the Reserve Bank of India.
58B. Provisions relating to prospectus to apply to advertisement. The
provisions of this Act relating to a prospectus shall, so far as may be, apply
to an advertisement referred to in section 58A.]
59. Penalty and interpretation.
(1) If any prospectus is issued in' contravention of section 57 or 58, the
company, and every person, who is knowingly a party to the issue thereof,
shall be punishable with fine which may extend to five thousand rupees.
(2) In sections 57 and 58, the expression" expert" includes an engineer, a
valuer, an accountant and any other person whose profes- sion gives authority
to a statement made by him.
60. Registration of prospectus.
(1) No prospectus shall be issued by or on behalf of a company orin relation
to an intended company unless, on or before the date ofits publication, there
has been delivered to the Registrar for registration a copy thereof signed by
every person who is named therein as a director or proposed director of the
company or by his agent authorised in writing, and having endorsed thereon or
attached thereto-
(a) any consent to the issue of the prospectus required by section 58 from any
person as an expert; and
(b) in the case of a prospectus issued generally, also-
(i) a copy of every contract required by clause 16 of Schedule II to be
specified in the prospectus, or, in the case of a contract not reduced into
writing, a memorandum giving full particulars thereof; and
(ii) where the persons making any report required by Part II of that Schedule
have made therein, or, have, without giving the reasons, indicated therein,
any such adjustments as are mentioned in clause 32 of that Schedule, a written
statement signed by those persons setting out the adjustments and giving the
reasons therefor.
(2) Every prospectus to which sub- section (1) applies shall, on the face of
it,-
(a) state that a copy has been delivered for registration as required by this
section; and
(b) specify any documents requird by this section to be endorsed on or
attached to the copy so delivered, or refer to statements included in the
prospectus which specify those documents,
(3) 1 The Registrar shall not register a prospectus unless the requirements of
sections 55, 56, 57 and 58 and sub- sections (1) and (2) of this section have
been complied with and the prospectus is accompanied by the consent in writing
of the person, if any, named therein as the auditor, legal adviser, attorney,
solicitor, banker or broker of the company or intended company, to act in that
capacity.]
(4) No prospectus shall be issued more than ninety days after the date on
which a copy thereof is delivered for registration; and if a prospectus is so
issued, it shall be deemed to be a prospectus a copy of which has not been
delivered under this section to the Registrar.
(5) If a prospectus is issued without a copy thereof being delivered under
this section to the Registrar or without the copy so delivered having endorsed
thereon or attached thereto the required consent or documents, the company,
and every person who is knowingly a party to the issue of the prospectus,
shall be punishable with fine which may extend to five thousand rupees.
61. Terms of contract mentioned in prospectus or statement in lieu of prospects, not to be varied. A company shall not, at any time, vary the terms of a contract referred to in the prospectus or statement in lieu of prospectus, except subject to the approval of, or except on authority given by, the company in general meeting.
1\. Subs. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 17, for sub- section (3).
62. Civil liability for misstatements in prospectus.
(1) Subject to the provisions of this section, where a prospectus invites
persons to subscribe for shares in or debentures of a company, the following
persons shall be liable to pay compensation to every person who subscribes for
any shares or debentures on the faith of the prospectus for any loss or damage
he may have sustained by reason of any untrue statement included therein, that
is to say,-
(a) every person who is a director of the company at the time of the issue of
the prospectus;
(b) every person who has authorised himself to be named and is named in the
prospectus either as a director, or as having agreed to become a director,
either immediately or after an interval of time;
(c) every person who is a promoter of the company; and
(d) every person who has authorised the issue of the prospectus: Provided that
where, under section 58, the consent of a person is required to the issue of a
prospectus and he has given that consent, or where, under 1 sub- section (3)
of section 60, the consent of a person named in a pros- pectus is required and
he has given that consent, he shall not, by reason of having given such
consent, be liable under this sub- section as a person who has authorised the
issue of the prospectus except in respect of an untrue statement, if any,
purporting to be made by him as an expert.
(2) No person shall be liable under sub- section (1), if he proves-
(a) that, having consented to become a director of the company, he withdrew
his consent before the issue of the prospectus, and that it was issued without
his authority or consent;
(b) that the prospectus was issued without his knowledge or consent, and that
on becoming aware of its issue, he forthwith gave reasonable public notice
that it was issued without his knowledge or consent;
(c) that, after the issue of the prospectus and before allotment thereunder,
he, on becoming aware of any untrue statement therein, withdrew his consent to
the prospectus and gave reasonable public notice of the withdrawal and of the
reason therefor; or
(d) that-
(i) as regards, every untrue statement not purporting to be made on the
authority of an expert or of a public official document or statement, he had
reasonable ground to believe, and did up to the time of the
1\. The words, brackets and letter" clause (b) of" omitted by Act 65 of 1960,
S. 18.
allotment of the shares or debentures, as the case may be, believe, that the
statement was true; and
(ii) as regards every untrue statement purporting to be a statement by an
expert or contained in what purports to be a copy of or an extract from a
report or valuation of an expert, it was a correct and fair representation of
the statement, or a correct copy of, or a correct and fair extract from, the
report or valuation; and he had reasonable ground to believe, and did up to
the time of the issue of the prospectus believe, that the person making the
statement was competent to make it and that that person had given the consent
required by section 58 to the issue of the prospectus and had not withdrawn
that consent before delivery of a copy of the prospectus for registration or,
to the defendant' s knowledge, before allotment thereunder: and
(iii) as regards every untrue statement purporting to be a statement made by
an official person or contained in what purports to be a copy of or extract
from a public official document, it was a correct and fair representation of
the statement, or a correct copy of, or a correct and fair extract from, the
document: Provided that this sub- section shall not apply in the case of a
person liable, by reason of his having given a consent required of him by
section 58, as a person who has authorised the issue of the prospectus in
respect of an untrue statement purporting to be made by him as an expert.
(3) A person who, apart from this sub- section, would, under sub- section (1),
be liable by reason of his having given a consent re- quired of him by section
58 as a person who has authorised the issue of a prospectus in respect of an
untrue statement purporting to be made by him as an expert shall not be so
liable, if he proves-
(a) that, having given his consent under section 58 to the issue of the
prospectus, he withdrew it in writing before delivery of a copy of the
prospectus for registration;
(b) that, after delivery of a copy of the prospectus for registration and
before allotment thereunder, he, on becoming aware of the untrue statement,
withdrew his consent
in writing and gave reasonable public notice of the with- drawal and of the
reason therefor; or
(c) that he was competent to make the statement and that he had reasonable
ground to believe, and did up to the time of the allotment of the shares or
debentures, believe, that the statement was true.
(4) Where--
(a) the prospectus specifies the name of a person as a director of the
company, or as having agreed to become a director thereof, and he has not
consented to become a director, or has withdrawn his consent before the issue
of the prospectus, and has not authorised or consented to the issue thereof;
or
(b) the consent of a person is required under section 58 to the issue of the
prospectus and he either has not given that consent or has withdrawn it before
the issue of the prospectus; the directors of the company excluding those
without whose knowledge or consent the prospectus was issued, and every other
person who authorised the issue thereof, shall be liable to indemnify the
person referred to in clause (a) or clause (b), as the case may be, against
all damages, costs and expenses to which he may be made liable by reason of
his name having been inserted in the prospectus or of the inclusion therein of
a statement purporting to be made by him as an expert, as the case may be, or
in defending himself against any suit or legal proceeding brought against him
in respect thereof: Provided that a person shall not be deemed for the
purposes of this sub- section to have authorised the issue of a prospectus by
reason only of his having given the consent required by section 58 to the
inclusion therein of a statement purporting to be made by him as an expert.
(5) Every person who, becomes liable to make any payment by virtue of this
section, may recover contribution, as in cases of contract, from any other
person who, if sued separately, would have been liable to make the same
payment, unless the former person was, and the latter person was not, guilty
of fraudulent misrepresentation.
(6) For the purposes of this section--
(a) the expression" promoter" means a promoter who was a party to the
preparation of the prospectus or of the
portion thereof containing the untrue statement but does not include any
person by reason of his acting in a professional capacity for persons engaged
in procuring the formation of the company; and
(b) the expression" expert" has the same meaning as in section 58.
63. Criminal liability for mis- statements in prospectus.
(1) Where a prospectus issued after the commencement of this Act includes any
untrue statement, every person who authorised the issue of the prospectus
shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to two
years, or with fine which may extend to five thousand rupees, or with both,
unless he proves either that the statement was immaterial or that he had
reasonable ground to believe, and did, up to the time of the issue of the
prospectus believe, that the statement was true.
(2) A person shall not be deemed for the purposes of this section to have
authorised the issue of a prospectus by reason only of his having given-
(a) the consent required by section 58 to the inclusion therein of a statement
purporting to be made by him as an expert, or
(b) the consent required by 1 sub- section (3) of section 60.
64. Document containing offer of shares or debentures for also to be deemed prospectus.
(1) Where a company allots or agrees to allot any shares in or debentures of
the company with a view to all or any of those shares or debentures being
offered for sale to the public, any document by which the offer for sale to
the public is made shall, for all purposes, be deemed to be a prospectus
issued by the company; and all enactments and rules of law as to the contents
of prospectuses and as to liability in respect of statements in and omissions
from prospectuses, or otherwise relating to prospectuses, shall apply with the
modifications specified in sub- sections (3), (4) and (5), and have effect
accordingly, as if the shares or debentures had been offered to the public for
subscription and as if persons accepting the offer in respect of any shares or
debentures were subscribers for those shares or debentures, but without
prejudice to the liability, if any, of the persons by whom the offer is made
in respect of misstatements contained in the document or otherwise in respect
thereof.
1\. The words, brackets and letter" clause (b) of" omitted by Act 65 of 1960,
S. 19.
(2) For the purposes of this Act, it shall, unless the contrary is proved, be
evidence that an allotment of, or an agreement to allot, shares or debentures
was made with a view to the shares or debentures being offered for sale to the
public if it is shown-
(a) that an offer of the shares or debentures or of any of them for sale to
the public was made within six months after the allotment or agreement to
allot; or
(b) that at the date when the offer was made, the whole consideration to be
received by the company in respect of the shares or debentures had not been
received by it.
(3) Section 56 as applied by this section shall have effect as if it required
a prospectus to state in addition to the matters required by that section to
be stated in a prospectus-
(a) the net amount of the consideration received or to be received by the
company in respect of the shares or debentures to which the offer relates; and
(b) the place and time at which the contract under which the said shares or
debentures have been or are to be allotted may be inspected.
(4) Section 60 as applied by this section shall have effect as if the persons
making the offer were persons named in a prospectus as directors of a company.
(5) Where a person making an offer to which this section relates is a company
or a firm, it shall be sufficient if the document referred to in sub- section
(1) is signed on behalf of the company or firm by two directors of the company
or by not less than one- half of the partners in the firm, as the case may be;
and any such director or partner may sign by his agent authorised in writing.
65. Interpretation of provisions relating to prospectuses.
(1) For the purposes of the foregoing provisions of this Part-
(a) a statement included in a prospectus shall be deemed to be untrue, if the
statement is misleading in the form be untrue and context in which it is
included; and
(b) where the omission from a prospectus of any matter is calculated to
mislead, the prospectus shall be deemed, in respect of such omission, to be a
prospectus in which an untrue statement is included.
(2) For the purposes of sections 61, 62 and 63 and clause (a) of sub- section
(1) of this section, the expression" included" when used with reference to a
prospectus, means included in the prospectus itself or contained in any report
or memorandum appearing on the face thereof or by reference incorporated
therein or issued therewith.
66. Newspaper advertisements of prospectus. Where any prospectus is published as a newspaper advertisement, it shall not be necessary in the advertisement to specify the contents of the memorandum or the signatories thereto, or the number of shares subscribed for by them.
67. Construction of references to offering shares or debentures to the public, etc]
(1) Any reference in this Act or in the articles of a company to offering
shares or debentures to the public shall, subject to any provision to the
contrary contained in this Act and subject also to the provisions of sub-
sections (3) and (4), be construed as including a reference to offering them
to any section of the public, whether selected as members or debenture holders
of the company concerned or as clients of the person issuing the prospectus or
in any other manner.
(2) Any reference in this Act or in the articles of a company to invitations
to the public to subscribe for shares or debentures shall, subject as
aforesaid, be construed as including a reference to invitations to subscribe
for them extended to any section of the public, whether selected as members or
debenture holders of the company concerned or as clients of the person issuing
the prospectus or in any other manner.
(3) No offer or invitation shall be treated as made to the public by virtue of
sub- section (1) or sub- section (2), as the case may be, if the offer or
invitation can properly be regarded, in all the circumstances-
(a) as not being calculated to result, directly or indirectly, in the shares
or debentures becoming available for sub- scription or purchase by persons
other than those receiving the offer or invitation; or
(b) otherwise as being a domestic concern of the persons making and receiving
the offer or invitation.
(4) Without prejudice to the generality of sub- section (3), a provision in a
company' s articles prohibiting invitations to the public to subscribe for
shares or debentures shall not be taken as prohibiting the making to members
or debenture holders of an invitation
which can properly be regarded in the manner set forth in that sub- section.
(5) The provisions of this Act relating to private companies shall be
construed in accordance with the provisions contained in sub- sections (1) to
(4).
68. Penalty for fraudulently inducing persons to invest money. Any person who, either by knowingly or recklessly making any statement, promise or forecast which is false, deceptive or misleading, or by any dishonest concealment of material facts, induces or attempts to induce another person to enter into, or to offer to enter into-
(a) any agreement for, or with a view to, acquiring, disposing of, subscribing
for, or underwriting shares or debentures; or
(b) any agreement the purpose or pretended purpose of which is to secure a
profit to any of the parties from the yield of shares or debentures, or by
reference to fluctuations in the value of shares or debentures; shall be
punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to five years, or
with fine which may extend to ten thousand rupees, or with both.
68A. 1 Personation for acquisition, etc., of shares.
(1) Any person who-
(a) makes in a fictitious name an application to a company for acquiring, or
subscribing for, any shares therein, or
(b) otherwise induces a company to allot, or register any transfer of, shares
therein to him, or any other person in a fictitious name, shall be punishable
with imprisonment for a term which may extend to five years.
(2) The provisions of sub- section (1) shall be prominently reproduced in
every prospectus issued by the company and in every form of application for
shares which is issued by the company to any person.] Allotment
69. Prohibition of allotment unless minimum subscription received.
(1) No allotment shall be made of any share capital of a company offered to
the public for subscription, unless the amount
1\. Ins. by Act 31 of 1965, s. 8 (w. e. f. 15- 10- 1965 ).
stated in the prospectus as the minimum amount which, in the opinion of the
Board of directors, must be raised by the issue of share capital in order to
provide for the matters specified in clause 5 of Schedule II has been
subscribed, and the sum payable on application for the amount so stated has
been paid to and received by the company, whether in cash or by a cheque or
other instrument which has been paid.
(2) The amount so stated in the prospectus shall be reckoned exclusively of
any amount payable otherwise than in money, and is in this Act referred to as"
the minimum subscription".
(3) The amount payable on application on each share shall not be less than
five per cent. of the nominal amount of the share.
(4) 1 All moneys received from applicants for shares shall be deposited and
kept deposited in a Scheduled Bank-
(a) until the certificate to commence business is obtained under section 149;
or
(b) Where such certificate has already been obtained, until the entire amount
payable on applications for shares in res- pect of the minimum subscription
has been received by the company, and where such amount has not been received
by the company within the time or the expiry of which the moneys received from
the applicants for shares are required to be repaid without interest under
sub- section (5), all moneys received from applicants for shares shall be
returned in accordance with the provisions of that sub- section. In the event
of any contravention of the provisions of this sub- section, every promoter,
director or other person who is knowingly responsible for such contravention
shall be punishable with fine which may extend to five thousand rupees.]
(5) If the conditions aforesaid have not been complied with on the expiry of
one hundred and twenty days after the first issue of the prospectus, all
moneys received from applicants for shares shall be forthwith repaid to them
without interest; and if any such money is not so repaid within one hundred
and thirty days after the issue of the prospectus, the directors of the
company shall be jointly and severally liable to repay that money with
interest at
1\. Subs. by Act 31 of 1965, s. 9, for sub- section (4) (w. e. f. 15- 10- 1965
).
the rate of six per cent. per annum from the expiry of the one hundred and
thirtieth day: Provided that a director shall not be so liable if he proves
that the default in the repayment of the money was not due to any mis- conduct
or negligence on his part.
(6) Any condition purporting to require or bind any applicant for shares to
waive compliance with any requirement of this section shall be void.
(7) This section, except sub- section (3) thereof, shall not apply in relation
to any allotment of shares subsequent to the first allotment of shares offered
to the public for subscription.
70. Prohibition of allotment in certain cases unless statement in lieu of prospectus delivered to Registrar.
(1) A company having a share capital, which does not issue a prospectus on or
with reference to its formation, or which has issued such a prospectus but has
not proceeded to allot any of the shares offered to the public for
subscription, shall not allot any of its shares or debentures unless at least
three days before the first allotment of either shares or debentures, there
has been delivered to the Registrar for registration a statement in lieu of
prospectus signed by every person who is named therein as a director or
proposed director of the company or by his agent authorised in writing, in the
form and containing the particulars set out in Part I of Schedule III and, in
the cases mentioned in Part II of that Schedule, setting out the reports
specified therein, and the said Parts I and II shall have effect subject to
the provisions contained in Part III of that Schedule.
(2) Every statement in lieu of prospectus delivered under sub- section (1),
shall, where the persons making any such report as aforesaid have made
therein, or have without giving the reasons indicated therein, any such
adjustments as are mentioned in clause 5 of Schedule III, have endorsed
thereon or attached thereto a written statement signed by those persons,
setting out the adjustments and giving the reasons thereof.
(3) This section shall not apply to a private company.
(4) If a company acts in contravention of sub- section (1) or (2), the
company, and every director of the company who wilfully authorises or permits
the contravention, shall be punishable with fine which may extend to one
thousand rupees.
(5) Where a statement in lieu of prospectus delivered to the Registrar under
sub- section (1) includes any untrue statement, any person who authorised the
delivery of the statement in lieu of prospectus for registration shall be
punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to two years or with
fine which may extend to five thousand rupees or with both, unless he proves
either that the statement was immaterial or that he had reasonable ground to
believe, and did up to the time of the delivery for registration of the
statement in lieu of prospectus believe, that the statement was true.
(6) For the purposes of this section-
(a) a statement included in a statement in lieu of prospectus shall be deemed
to be untrue if it is misleading in the form and context in which it is
included; and
(b) where the omission from a statement in lieu of prospectus of any matter is
calculated to mislead, the statement in lieu of prospectus shall be deemed, in
respect of such omission, to be a statement in lieu of prospectus in which an
untrue statement is included.
(7) For the purposes' of sub- section (5) and clause (a) of sub- section (6),
the expression" included", when used with reference to a statement in lieu of
prospectus, means included in the statement in lieu of prospectus itself or
contained in any report or memorandum appearing on the face thereof, or by
reference incorporated therein, or issued therewith.
71. Effect of irregular allotment.
(1) An allotment made by a company to an applicant in contravention of the
provisions of section 69 or 70 shall be voidable at the instance of the
applicant-
(a) within two months after the holding of the statutory meeting of the
company, and not later, or
(b) in any case where the company is not required to hold a statutory meeting
or where the allotment is made after the holding of the statutory meeting,
within two months after the date of the allotment, and not later.
(2) The allotment shall be voidable as aforesaid, notwithstand- ing that the
company is in course of being wound up.
(3) If any director of a company knowingly contravenes, or wilfully authorises
or permits the contravention of, any of the pro- visions of section 69 or 70
with respect to allotment, he shall be liable to compensate the company and
the allottee respectively for any loss, damages or costs which the company or
the allottee may have sustained or incurred thereby: Provided that proceedings
to recover any such loss, damages or costs shall not be commenced after the
expiration of two years from the date of the allotment.
72. Applications for, and allotment of, shares and debentures.
(1)
(a) No allotment shall be made of any shares in or debentures of a company in
pursuance of a prospectus issued generally, and no proceedings shall be taken
on applications made in pursuance of a prospectus so issued, until the
beginning of the fifth day after that on which the prospectus is first so
issued or such later time, if any, as may be specified in the prospectus:
Provided that where, after a prospectus is first issued generally, a public
notice is given by some person responsible under section 62 for the prospectus
which has the effect of excluding, limiting or diminishing his responsibility,
no allotment shall be made until the beginning of the fifth day after that on
which such public notice is first given.
(b) Nothing in the foregoing proviso shall be deemed to exclude, limit or
diminish any liability that might be incurred in the case referred to therein
under the general law or this Act.
(c) The beginning of the fifth day or such later time as is men- tioned in the
first paragraph of clause (a), or the beginning of the fifth day mentioned in
the second paragraph of that clause, as the
case may be, is hereinafter in this Act referred to as" the time of the
opening of the subscription lists".
(2) In sub- section (1), the reference to the day on which the prospectus is
first issued generally shall, be construed as referring to the day on which it
is first so issued as a newspaper advertisement: Provided that, if it is not
so issued as a newspaper advertisement before the fifth day after that on
which it is first so issued in any other manner, the said reference shall be
construed as referring to the day on which it is first so issued in any
manner.
(3) The validity of an allotment shall not be affected by any contravention of
the foregoing provisions of this section; but, in the event of any such
contravention, the company, and every officer of the company who is in
default, shall be punishable with fine which may extend to five thousand
rupees.
(4) In the application of this section to a prospectus offering shares or
debentures for sale, sub- sections (1) to (3) shall have effect with the
substitution of references to sale for references to allotment, and with the
substitution for the reference to the company and every officer of the company
who is in default of a reference to any person by or through whom the offer is
made and who is knowingly guilty of, or wilfully authorises or permits, the
contravention.
(5) An application for shares in, or debentures of, a company, which is made
in pursuance of a prospectus issued generally shall not be revocable until
after the expiration of the fifth day after the time of the opening of the
subscription lists, or the giving, before the expiry of the said fifth day by
some person responsible under sec- tion 62 for the prospectus, of a public
notice having the effect under that section of excluding, limiting or
diminishing the responsibility of the person giving it.
73. Allotment of shares and debentures to be dealt in on stock exchange. 1
(1) Every company intending to offer shares or debentures to the public for
subscription by the issue of a prospectus shall, before such issue, make an
application to one or more recognised stock exchanges for permission for the
shares or debentures intending to be so offered to be dealt with in the stock
exchange or each such stock exchange.]
(1A) 2 ] Where a prospectus, whether issued generally or not, state that an 3
application under sub- section (1) has been] made for permission for the
shares or debentures offered thereby to be dealt in one or more recognized
stock exchanges, such prospectus, shall state the name of the stock exchange
or, as the case may be, each such stock exchange, and any allotment made on an
applica- tion in pursuance of such prospectus shall, whenever made, be void 4
1\. Ins. by Act 31 of 1988, s. 10 (w. e. f. 15- 6- 1988 ).
2\. Subs. by Act 41 of 1974, s. 8 sub- section (1) (w. e. f. 1- 2- 1975 ) and
renumbered as sub- section (1A) by Act 31 of 1988, s. 10 (w. e. f. 15- 6- 1988
).
3\. Subs. by Act 31 of 1988, s. 10 (w. e. f. 15- 6- 1988 ).
4\. Omitted by s. 10, ibid. (w. e. f. 15- 6- 1988 ).
if the permission has not been granted by the stock exchange or each such
stock exchange, as the case may be, before the expiry of ten weeks from the
date of the closing of the subscription lists: Provided that where an appeal
against the decision of any recog- nized stock exchange refusing permission
for the shares or debentures to be dealt in on that stock exchange has been
preferred under section 22 of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956
(42 of 1956 ), such allotment shall not be void until the dismissal of the
appeal.]
(2) Where the permission has not been 1 applied under sub- section (1)] 2 or,
such permission, having been applied for, has not been granted as aforesaid],
the company shall forthwith repay without interest all moneys received from
applicants in pursuance of the prospectus, and, if any such money is not
repaid within eight days after the company becomes liable to repay it 1 the
company and every director of the company who is an officer in default shall,
on and from the expiry of the eighth day, be jointly and severally liable to
repay that money with interest at such rate, not less than four per cent. and
not more than fifteen per cent., as may be prescribed, having regard to the
length of the period of delay in making the repayment of such money.] 3
(2A) 4 Where permission has been granted by the recognized stock exchange or
stock exchanges for dealing in any shares or debentures in such stock exchange
or each such stock exchange and the moneys received from applicants for shares
or debentures are in excess of the aggregate of the application moneys
relating to the shares or debentures in respect of which allotments have been
made, the company shall repay the moneys to the extent of such excess
forthwith without interest, and if such money is not repaid within eight days,
from the day the company becomes liable to pay it, 1 the company and every
director of the company who is an officer in default shall, on and from the
expiry of the eighth day, be jointly and severally liable to repay that money
with interest at such rate, not less than four per cent. and not more than
fifteen per cent., as may be prescribed, having regard to the length of the
period of delay in making the repayment of such money.] 3
1\. Subs. by Act 31 of 1988, s. 10 (w. e. f. 15- 6- 1988 ).
2\. Subs. by Act 41 of 1974, s. 8, for certain words (w. e. f. 1- 2- 1975 ).
3\. Omitted by Act 31 of 1988, s. 10 (w. e. f. 15- 6- 1988 ).
4\. Ins. by Act 41 of 1974, s. 8 (w. e. f. 1- 2- 1975 ).
(2B) If default is made in complying with the provisions of sub- section (2A),
the company and every officer of the company who is in default shall be
punishable with fine which may extend to five thousand rupees, and where
repayment is not made within six months from the expiry of the eighth day,
also with imprisonment for a term which may extend to one year.]
(3) All moneys received as aforesaid shall be kept in a separate bank account
maintained with a Scheduled Bank 1 until the permission has been granted, or
where an appeal has been preferred against the refusal to grant such.
permission, until the disposal of the appeal, and the money standing in such
separate account shall, where the permission has not been applied for as
aforesaid or has not been granted, be repaid within the time and in the manner
specified in sub- section (2)]; and if default is made in complying with this
sub- section, the company, and every officer of the company who is in default,
shall be punishable with fine which may extend to five thousand rupees.
(3A) 2 Moneys standing to the credit of the separate bank account referred to
in sub- section (3) shall not be utilised for any purpose other than the
following purposes, namely:-
(a) adjustment against allotment of shares, where the shares have been
permitted to be dealt in on the stock exchange or each stock exchange
specified in the prospectus; or
(b) repayment of moneys received from applicants in pursuance of the
prospectus, where shares have not been per- mitted to be dealt in on the stock
exchange or each stock exchange specified in the prospectus, as the case may
be, or, where the company is for any other reason unable to make the allotment
of share.]
(4) Any condition purporting to require or bind any applicant for shares or
debentures to waive compliance with any of the require- ments of this section
shall be void.
1\. Subs. by Act 41 of 1974, s. 8, for certain words (w. e. f. 1- 2- 1975 ).
2\. Ins. by s. 8, ibid. (w. e. f. 1- 2- 1975 ).
(5) 1 For the purposes of this section, it shall be deemed that permission has
not been granted if the application for permission, where made, has not been
disposed of within the time specified in sub- section (1).]
(6) This section shall have effect-
(a) in relation to any shares or debentures agreed to be taken by a person
underwriting an offer thereof by a pros- pectus, as if he had applied therefor
in pursuance of the prospectus; and
(b) in relation to a prospectus offering shares for sale, with the following
modifications, namely:-
(i) references to sale shall be substituted for references to allotment;
1\. Subs. by Act 41 of 1974, s. 8, for sub- section (5) (w. e. f. 1- 2- 1975
).
(ii) the persons by whom the offer is made, and not the. company, shall be
liable under sub- section (2) to' repay money received from applicants, and
references to the company' s liability under that sub- section shall be
construed accordingly; and
(iii) for the reference in sub- section (3) to the company and every officer
of the company who is in default, there shall be substituted a reference to
any person by or through whom the offer is made and who is knowingly guilty
of, or wilfully authorises or permits, the default.
(7) No prospectus shall state that application has been made for permission
for the shares or debentures offered thereby to be dealt in on any stock
exchange, unless it is a recognised stock exchange.
74. Manner of reckoning fifth, eighth and tenth days in sections 72 and 73. In reckoning for the purposes of sections 72 and 73, the fifth day 1 or the eighth day] another day, any intervening day which is a public holiday under the Negotiable Instruments Act, 1881 (36 of 1881 ), shall be disregarded, and if the fifth, or eighth day (as so reckoned) is itself such a public holiday, there shall for the said purposes be substituted the first day thereafter which is not such a holiday.
75. Return as to allotments.
(1) Whenever a company having a share capital makes any allotment of its
shares, the company shall, within 2 thirty days] thereafter,-
(a) file with the Registrar a return of the allotments, stating the number and
nominal amount of the shares comprised in the allotment, the names, addresses
and occupations of the allottees, and the amount, if any, paid or due and
payable on each share: 3 Provided that the company shall not show in such
return any shares as having been allotted for cash if cash has not actually
been received in respect of such allotment.]
(b) in the case of shares (not being bonus shares) allotted as fully or partly
paid up otherwise than in cash, produce for the inspection and examination of
the Registrar a contract in writing constituting the title of the allottee
1\. Subs. by Act 31 of 1988, s. 11 (w. e. f. 15- 6- 1988 ).
2\. Subs. by Act 31 of 1965, s. 62 and Sch., for" one month" (w. e. f. 15- 10-
1965 ).
3\. Added by s. 11, ibid. (w. e. f. 15- 10- 1965 ).
to the allotment together with any contract of sale, or a contract for
services or other consideration in respect of which that allotment was made,
such contracts being duly stamped, and file with the Registrar copies verified
in the prescribed manner of all such contracts and a return stating the number
and nominal amount of shares so allotted, the extent to which they are to be
treated as paid up, and the consideration for which they have been allotted;
and
(c) 1 file with the Registrar-
(i) in the case of bonus shares, a return stating the number and nominal
amount of such shares comprised in the allotment and the names, addresses and
occupations of the allottees and a copy of the resolution authorising the
issue of such shares;
(ii) in the case of issue of shares at a discount a copy of the resolution
passed by the company authorising such issue together with a copy of the order
of the Court sanctioning the issue and where the maximum rate of discount
exceeds ten per cent., a copy of the orders of the Central Government
permitting the issue at the higher percentage.]
(2) Where a contract such as is mentioned in clause (b) of sub- section (1) is
not reduced to writing, the company shall, within 2 thirty days] after the
allotment, file with the Registrar the pres- cribed particulars of the
contract stamped with the same stamp duty as would have been payable if the
contract had been reduced to writing; and those particulars shall be deemed to
be an instrument within the meaning of the Indian Stamp Act, 1899 , (2 of 1899
.) and the Registrar may, as a condition of filing the particulars, require
that the duty payable thereon be adjudicated under section 31 of that Act.
(3) If the Registrar is satisfied that in the circumstances of any particular
case the period of 2 thirty days] specified in subsections (1) and (2) for
compliance with the requirements of this section 3 is or was inadequate, he
may, on application made in that behalf by the company, whether before or
after the expiry of the said period, extend
1\. Subs. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 21, for cl. (c).
2\. Subs. by Act 31 of 1965, s. 62 and Sch., for" one month" (w. e. f. 15- 10-
1965 ).
3\. Subs. by s. 11, ibid., for certain words, (w. e. f. 15- 10- 1965 ).
that period as he thinks fit]; and if he does so, the provisions of sub-
sections (1) and (2) shall have effect in that particular case as if for the
said period of 1 thirty days] the extended period allowed by the Registrar
were substituted.
(4) If default is made in complying with this section, every officer of the
company who is in default shall be punishable with fine which may. extend to
five hundred rupees for every day during which the default continues: 2
Provided that in case of contravention of the proviso to clause (a) of sub-
section (1), every such officer, and every promoter of the company who is
guilty of the contravention shall be punishable with fine which may extend to
five thousand rupees.]
(5) Nothing in this section shall apply to the issue and allotment by a
company of shares which under the provisions of its articles were forfeited
for non- payment of calls. Commissions and Discounts
76. Power to pay certain commissions and prohibition of payment of all other commissions, discounts, etc.
(1) A company may pay a commission to any person in consideration of-
(a) his subscribing or agreeing to subscribe, whether absolutely or
conditionally, for any shares in, or debentures of, the company, or
(b) his procuring or agreeing to procure subscriptions, whether absolute or
conditional, for any shares in, or debentures of, the company, if the
following conditions are fulfilled, namely:-
(i) the payment of the commission is authorised by the articles;
(ii) the commission paid or agreed to be paid does not exceed in the case of
shares, five per cent. of the price at which the shares are issued or the
amount or rate authorised by the articles, whichever is less, and in the case
of debentures, two and a half per cent. of the price at which the debentures
are issued or the amount or rate authorised by the articles, whichever is
less;
1\. Subs. by Act 31 of 1965, s. 62 and Sch., for" one month" (w. e. f. 15- 10-
1965 ). 2 Subs. by s. 11, ibid., for the proviso (w. e. f. 15- 10- 1965 ).
(iii) the amount or rate per cent. of the commission paid or agreed to be paid
is- in the case of shares or debentures offered to the public for
subscription, disclosed in the prospectus; and in the case of shares or
debentures not offered to the public for subscription, disclosed in the
statement in lieu of prospectus, or in a statement in the prescribed form
signed in like manner as a statement in lieu of prospectus and filed before
the payment of the commission with the Registrar and, where a circular or
notice, not being a prospectus inviting subscription for the shares or
debentures, is issued, also disclosed in that circular or notice; 1
(iv) the number of shares or debentures which persons have agreed for a
commission to subscribe absolutely or conditionally is disclosed in the manner
aforesaid 2 and]
(V) 2 a copy of the contract for the payment of the commission is delivered to
the Registrar at the time of delivery of the prospectus or the statement in
lieu of prospectus for registration.]
(2) Save as aforesaid and save as provided in section 79, no company shall
allot any of its shares or debentures or apply 3 any of its moneys], either
directly or indirectly, in payment of any com- mission, discount or allowance,
to any person in consideration of-
(a) his subscribing or agreeing to subscribe, whether absolutely or
conditionally, for any shares in, or debentures of, the company, or
(b) his procuring or agreeing to procure subscriptions, whether absolute or
conditional, for any shares in, or debentures of, the company, whether the
shares, debentures or money be so allotted or applied by being added to the
purchase money of any property acquired by the company or to the contract
price of any work to be executed for the company, or the money be paid out of
the nominal purchase money or contract price, or otherwise.
1\. The word" and" omitted by Act 31 of 1965, s. 12 (w. e. f. 15- 10- 1965 ).
2\. Ins. by s. 12, ibid. (w. e. f. 15- 10- 1965 ).
3\. Subs. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 22, for" any of its capital moneys".
(3) Nothing in this section shall affect the power of any company to pay such
brokerage as it has heretofore been lawful for a company to pay.
(4) A vendor to. promoter of, or other person who receives pay- ment in
shares, debentures or money from, a company shall have and shall be deemed
always to have had power to apply any part of the shares, debentures or money
so received in payment of any commission the payment of which, if made
directly by the company, would have been legal under this section.
(4A) 1 For the removal of doubts it is hereby declared that no commission
shall be paid under clause (a) of sub- section (1) to any person on shares or
debentures which are not offered to the public for subscription: Provided that
where a person has subscribed or agreed to subs- cribe under clause (a) of
sub- section (1) for any shares in, or deben- tures of, the company and before
the issue of the prospectus or statement in lieu thereof any other person or
persons has or have subscribed for any or all of those shares or debentures
and that fact together with the aggregate amount of commission payable under
this section in respect of such subscription is disclosed in such pros- pectus
or statement, then, the company may pay commission to the first- mentioned
person in respect of such subscription.]
(5) If default is made in complying with the provisions of this section, the
company, and every officer of the company who is in default, shall be
punishable with fine which may extend to five hundred rupees.
77. Restrictions on purchase by company or loans by company for purchase, of its own or its holding company' s shares.
(1) No company limited by shares, and no company limited by guarantee and
having a share capital, shall have power to buy its
1\. Ins. by Act 31 of 1965, s. 12 (w. e. f. 15- 10- 1965 ).
own shares, unless the consequent reduction of capital is effected and
sanctioned in pursuance of sections 100 to 104 or of section 402.
(2) No public company, and no private company which is a sub- sidiary of a
public company, shall give, whether directly or indirectly, and whether by
means of a loan, guarantee, the provision of security or otherwise, any
financial assistance for the purpose of or in connection with a purchase or
subscription made or to be made by any person of or for any shares in the
company or in its holding company: Provided that nothing in this sub- section
shall be taken to prohibit-
(a) the lending of money by a banking company in the ordinary course of its
business; or
(b) the provision by a company, in accordance with any scheme for the time
being in force, of money for the purchase of, or subscription for, fully paid
shares in the company or its holding company, being a purchase or subscription
by trustees of or for shares to be held by or for the benefit of employees of
the company, including any director holding a salaried office or employment in
the company; or
(c) the making by a company of loans, within the limit laid down in sub-
section (3), to persons (other than directors, managing agents, secretaries
and treasurers or managers) bona fide in the employment of the company with a
view to enabling those persons to purchase or subscribe for fully paid shares
in the company or its holding company to be held by themselves by way of
beneficial ownership.
(3) No loan made to any person in pursuance of clause (c) of the foregoing
proviso shall exceed in amount his salary or wages at that time for a period
of six months.
(4) If a company acts in contravention of sub- sections (1) to (3), the
company, and every officer of the company who is in default, shall be
punishable with fine which may extend to one thousand rupees.
(5) Nothing in this section shall affect the right of a company to redeem any
shares issued under section 80 or under any corresponding provision in any
previous companies law.
Issue of Shares at Premium and Discount
78. Application of premiums received on issue of shares.
(1) Where a company issues shares at a premium, whether for cash or otherwise,
a sum equal to the aggregate amount or value of the premiums on those shares
shall be transferred to an account, to be called" the share premium account";
and the provisions of this Act relating to the reduction of the share capital
of a company shall, except as provided in this section, apply as if the share
premium account were paid- up share capital of the company.
(2) The share premium account may, notwithstanding anything in sub- section
(1), be applied by the company-
(a) in paying up unissued shares of the company to be issued to members of the
company as fully paid bonus shares;
(b) in writing off the preliminary expenses of the company;
(c) in writing off the expenses of, or the commission paid or discount allowed
on, any issue of shares or debentures of the company; or
(d) in providing for the premium payable on the redemption of any redeemable
preference shares or of any debentures of the company.
(3) Where a company has, before the commencement of this Act, issued any
shares at a premium, this section shall apply as if the shares had been issued
after the commencement of this Act: Provided that any part of the premiums
which has been so applied that it does not at the commencement of this Act
form an identifiable part of the company' s reserves within the meaning of
Schedule Vl, shall be disregarded in determining the sum to be included in the
share premium account.
79. Power to issue shares at a discount.
(1) A company shall not issue shares at a discount except as provided in this
section.
(2) A company may issue at a discount shares in the company of a class already
issued, if the following conditions are fulfilled, namely:-
(i) the issue of the shares at a discount is authorised by a resolution passed
by the company in general meeting, and sanctioned by the 1 Company Law Board];
1\. Subs. by Act 41 of 1974, s. 9, for" Court" (w. e. f. 1- 2- 1975 ).
(ii) the resolution specifies the maximum, rate of discount 1 at which the
shares are to be issued: 2 Provided that no such resolution shall be
sanctioned by the Company Law Board if the maximum rate of discount specified
in the resolution exceeds ten per cent., unless that Board is of opinion that
a higher percentage of discount may be allowed in the special circumstances of
the case;]
(iii) not less than one year has at the date of the issue elapsed since the
date on which the company was entitled to commence business; and
(iv) the shares to be issued at a discount are issued within two months after
the date on which the issue is sanctioned by the 3 Company Law Board] or
within such extended time as the 3 Company Law Board] may allow.
(3) Where a company has passed a resolution authorising the issue of shares at
a discount, it may apply to the 3 Company Law Board] for an order sanctioning
the issue; and on any such applica- tion, the 3 Company Law Board], if, having
regard to all. the circum- stances of the case, it thinks proper so to do, may
make an order sanctioning the issue on such terms and conditions as it thinks
fit.
(4) Every prospectus relating to the issue of the shares shall contain
particulars of the discount allowed on the issue of the shares or of so much
of that discount as has not been written off at the date of the issue of the
prospectus. If default is made in complying with this sub- section, the com-
pany, and every officer of the company who is in default, shall be punishable
with fine which may extend to fifty rupees. 4 Issue and Redemption of
Preference Shares]
80. Power to issue redeemable preference shares.
(1) Subject to the provisions of this section, a company limited by shares
may, if so authorised by its articles, issue preference shares which are, or
at the option of the company are to be liable, to be redeemed:
1\. Certain words omitted by Act 41 of 1974, s. 9 (w. e. f. 1- 2- 1975 ). 2
Ins. by s. 9, ibid. (w. e. f. 1- 2- 1975 ).
3\. Subs. by s. 9, ibid.. for" Court" (w. e. f. 1- 2- 1975 ).
4\. Subs. by Act 31 of 1988, s. 12 (w. e. f. 15. 6. 1988 ).
Provided that-
(a) no such shares shall be redeemed except out of profits of the company
which would otherwise be available for dividend or out of the proceeds of a
fresh issue of shares made for the purposes of the redemption;
(b) no such shares shall be redeemed unless they are fully paid;
(c) the premium,, if any, payable on redemption shall have been provided for
out of the profits of the company or, out of the company' s share premium
account, before the shares are redeemed;
(d) where any such shares are redeemed otherwise than out of the proceeds of a
fresh issue, there shall, out of profits which would otherwise have been
available for dividend, be transferred to a reserve fund, to be called 1 the
capital redemption reserve account], a sum equal to the nominal amount of the
shares redeemed; and the provisions of this Act relating to the reduction of
the share capital of a company shall, except as provided in this section,
apply as if 1 the capital redemption reserve account] were paid- up share
capital of the company.
(2) Subject to the provisions of this section, the redemption of preference
shares thereunder may be effected on such terms and in such manner as may be
provided by the articles of the company.
(3) The redemption of preference shares under this section by a company shall
not be taken as reducing the amount of its authorised share capital.
(4) Where in pursuance of this section, a company has redeemed or is about to
redeem any preference shares, it shall have power to issue shares up to the
nominal amount of the shares redeemed or to be redeemed as if those shares had
never been issued; and accordingly the share capital of the company shall not,
for the purpose of calculating the fees payable under 2 section 611], be
deemed to be increased by the issue of shares in pursuance of this sub-
section:
1\. Subs. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 23, for" the capital redemption reserve fund".
2\. Subs. by s. 23, ibid., for" section 601".
Provided that, where new shares are issued before the redemption of the old
shares, the new shares shall not, so far as relates to stamp duty, be deemed
to have been issued in pursuance of this sub- section unless the old shares
are redeemed within one month after the issue of the new shares.
(5) 1 The capital redemption reserve account] may, notwithstanding anything in
this section, be applied by the company, in paying up unissued shares of the
company to be issued to members of the company as fully paid bonus shares.
(5A) 2 Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, no company limited by
shares shall, after the commencement of the Companies (Amendment) Act, 1988 ,
issue any preference share which is irredeemable or is redeemable after the
expiry of a period of ten years from the date of its issue]
(6) If a company fails to comply with the provisions of this section, the
company, and every officer of the company who is in default,
1\. Subs. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 23, for" The capital redemption reserve fund".
2\. Ins. by Act 31 of of 1988, s. 13 (w. e. f 15. 6. 1988 ).
shall be punishable with fine which may extend to one thousand rupees.
80A. 4 Redemption of irredeemable preference shares, etc.
(1) Notwithstanding anything contained in the terms of issue of any preference
shares, every preference share issued before the commencement of the Companies
(Amendment) Act, 1988 ,-
(a) which is irredeemable, shall be redeemed by the company within a period
not exceeding five years from such com- mencement, or
(b) which is not redeemable before the expiry of ten years from the date of
issue there- on in accordance with the terms of its issue and which had not
been redeemed before such com- mencement, shall be redeemed by the company on
the date on which such share is due for redemption or within a period not
exceeding ten years from such commencement, whichever is earlier: Provided
that where a company is not in a position to redeem any such share within the
period aforesaid and to pay the dividend, if any, due thereon (such shares
being hereinafter referred to as unredeemed preference shares), it may, with
the consent of the Company Law Board, on a petition made by it in this behalf
and notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, issue further redeem- able
preference shares equal to the amounts due (including the dividend thereon),
in respect of the unredeemed preference shares, and on the issue of such
further redeemable preference shares, the unredeemed shares shall be deemed to
have been redeemed.
(2) Nothing contained in section 106 or any scheme referred to in sections 391
to 395, or in any scheme made under section 396, shall be deemed to confer
power on any class of shareholders by resolution or on any court or the
Central Government to vary or modify the provisions of this section.
(3) If any default is made in complying with the provisions of this section,-
(a) the company making such default shall be punishable with fine which may
extend to one thousand rupees for every day during which such default
continues; and
(b) every officer of the company who is in default shall be punishable with
imprisonment for a term which may extend to three years and shall also be
liable to fine.] Further issue of Capital
81. Further issue of capital.
(1) 2 Where at any time after the expiry of two years from the formation of a
company or at any time after the expiry of one year from the allotment of
shares in that company made for the first time after its formation, whichever
is earlier, it is proposed to increase the subscribed capital of the company
by allotment of further shares, then,]
(a) such 3 further] shares shall be offered to the persons who, at the date of
the offer, are holders of the equity shares of the company, in proportion, as
nearly as circumstances admit, to the capital paid up on those shares at that
date;
(b) the offer aforesaid shall be made by notice specifying the number of
shares offered and limiting a time not being less than fifteen days from the
date of the offer within which the offer, if not accepted, will be deemed to
have been declined; (c) unless the articles of the company otherwise provide,
the offer aforesaid shall be deemed to include a right exercis- able by the
person concerned to renounce the shares offered to him or any of them in
favour of any other person; and the notice referred to in clause (b) shall
contain a statement of this right;
(d) after the expiry of the time specified in the notice aforesaid, or on
receipt of earlier intimation from the person to whom such notice is given
that he declines to accept the shares offered, the Board of directors may
dispose of them in such manner as they think most beneficial to the company.
Explanation.- In this sub- section," equity share capital" and equity shares"
have the same meaning as in section 85.
(1A) 4 Notwithstanding anything contained in sub- section (1), the further
shares aforesaid may be offered to any persons[ whether or
1\. Ins. by Act 31 of 1988, s. 14 (w. e. f. 15. 6. 1988 ).
2\. Subs. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 24, for certain words.
3\. Subs. by s. 24, ibid., for" new".
4\. Ins. by s. 24, ibid.
not those persons include the persons referred to in clause (a) of subsection
(1)] in any manner whatsoever-
(a) if a special resolution to that effect is passed by the company in general
meeting, or
(b) where no such special resolution is passed, if the votes cast (whether on
a show of hands, or on a poll, as the case may be) in favour of the proposal
contained in the resolution moved in that general meeting (including the
casting vote, if any, of the Chairman) by members who, being entitled so to
do, vote in person, or where proxies are allowed, by proxy, exceed the votes,
if any, cast against the proposal by members so entitled and voting and the
Central Government is satisfied, on an application made by the Board of
directors in this behalf, that the proposal is most beneficial to the
company.]
(2) Nothing in clause (c) of sub- section (1) shall be deemed-
(a) to extend the time within which the offer should be accepted, or
(b) to authorise any person to exercise the right of renunciation for a second
time, on the ground that the person in whose favour the renunciation was first
made has declined to take the shares comprised in the renunciation.
(3) Nothing in this section shall apply-
(a) to a private company; or
(b) to the increase of the subscribed capital of a public company caused by
the exercise of an option attached to debentures issued or loans raised by the
company-
(i) to convert such debentures or loans into shares in the company, or
(ii) to subscribe for shares in the company: 2 Provided that the terms of
issue of such debentures or the terms of such loans include a term providing
for such option and such term-
(a) either has been approved by the Central Government before the issue of
debentures or the raising of the loans or is in conformity with the rules, if
any, made by that Government in this behalf; and
1\. Subs. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 24, for sub- section (3).
2\. Subs. by Act 53 of 1963, s. 5, for the proviso (w. e. f. 1- 1- 1964 ).
(b) in the case of debentures or loans other than debentures issued to, or
loans obtained from, the Government or any institution specified by the
Central Government in this behalf, has also been approved by a special
resolution passed by the company in general meeting before the issue of the
debentures or the raising of the loans.]]
(4) 1 Notwithstanding anything contained in the foregoing provi- sions of this
section, where any debentures have been issued to, or loans have been obtained
from, the Government by a company, whether such debentures have been issued or
loans have been obtained before or after the commencement of the Companies
(Amendment) Act, 1963 , the Central Government may, if in its opinion it is
necessary in the public interest so to do, by order, direct that such
debentures or loans or any part thereof shall be converted into shares in the
company on such terms and conditions as appear to that Government to be
reasonable in the circumstances of the case, even if the terms of issue of
such debentures or the terms of such loans do not include a term providing for
an option for such conversion.
(5) In determining the terms and conditions of such conversion, the Central
Government shall have due regard to the following cir- cumstances, that is to
say, the financial position of the company, the terms of issue of the
debentures or the terms of the loans, as the case may be, the rate of interest
payable on the debentures or the loans, the capital of the company, its loan
liabilities, its reserves, its profits during the preceding five years and the
current market price of the shares in the company.
(6) A copy of every order proposed to be issued by the Central Government
under sub- section (4) shall be laid in draft before each House of Parliament
while it is in session for a total period of thirty days which may be
comprised in one session or in two or more successive sessions.
(7) If the terms and conditions of such conversion are not acceptable to the
company, the company may, within thirty days from the date of communication to
it of such order or within such further time as may be granted by the Court,
prefer an appeal to the Court in regard to such terms and conditions and the
decision of the Court on such appeal and, subject only to such decision, the
order of the Central Government under sub- section (4) shall be final and
conclu- sive.]
1\. Ins. by Act 53 of 1963, s. 5 (w. e. f. 1- 1- 1964 ).
PART IV SHARE CAPITAL AND DEBENTURES Nature, Numbering and Certificate of
Shares
82. Nature of shares. The shares or other interest of any member in a company shall be movable property, transferable in the manner provided by the articles of the company.
83. Repealed by the Depositories Act, 1996 (22 of 1996 ) s. 31 and Sch. (w. e. f. 20- 9- 1995 ).
84. Certificate of shares. 1
(1) ] A certificate, under the common seal of the company, specifying any
shares held by any member, shall be prima facie evidence of the title of the
member to such shares.
(2) 2 A certificate may be renewed or a duplicate of a certificate may be
issued if such certificate-
(a) is proved to have been lost or destroyed, or
(b) having been defaced or mutilated or torn is surrendered to the company.
(3) If a company with intent to defraud renews a certificate or issues a
duplicate thereof, the company shall be punishable with fine which may extend
to ten thousand rupees and every officer of the company who is in default
shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to six
months, or with fine which may extend to ten thousand rupees, or with both.
(4) Notwithstanding anything contained in the articles of asso- ciation of a
company, the manner of issue or renewal of a certificate or issue of a
duplicate thereof, the form of a certificate (original or renewed) or of a
duplicate thereof, the particulars to be entered in the register of members or
in the register of renewed or duplicate certificates, the form of such
registers, the fee on payment of which, the terms and conditions, if any
(including terms and conditions as to evidence and indemnity and the payment
of out- of- pocket expenses incurred by a company in investigating evidence)
on which a certi- ficate may be renewed or a duplicate thereof may be issued,
shall be such as may be prescribed.]
1\. S. 84 re- numbered as sub- section (1) of that section by Act 65 of 1960,
s. 25.
2\. Ins. by s. 25, ibid.
Kinds of Share Capital
85. Two kinds of share capital.
(1) " Preference share capital" means, with reference to any company limited
by shares, whether formed before or after the commencement of this Act, that
part of the share capital of the company which fulfils both the following
requirements, namely:-
(a) that as respects dividends, it carries or will carry a preferential right
to be paid a fixed amount or an amount calculated at a fixed rate, which may
be either free of or subject to income- tax; and
(b) that as respects capital, it carries or will carry, on a winding up or
repayment of capital, a preferential right to be repaid the amount of the
capital paid up or deemed to have been paid up, whether or not there is a
preferential right to the payment of either or both of the following amounts,
namely:-
(i) any money remaining unpaid, in respect of the amounts specified in clause
(a), up to the date of the winding up or repayment of capital; and
(ii) any fixed premium or premium on any fixed scale, specified in the
memorandum or articles of the company. Explanation.- Capital shall be deemed
to be preference, capital, notwithstanding that it is entitled to, either or
both of the following rights, namely:-
(i) that, as respects dividends, in addition to the preferential right to the
amount specified in clause (a), it has a right to participate, whether fully
or to a limited extent, with capital not entitled to the preferential right
aforesaid;
(ii) that as respects capital, in addition to the preferential right to the
repayment, on a winding up, of the amounts specified in clause (b), it has a
right to participate,
whether fully or to a limited extent, with capital not entitled to that
preferential right in any surplus which may remain after the entire capital
has been repaid.
(2) " Equity share capital" means, with reference to any such company, all
share capital which is not preference share capital.
(3) The expressions" preference share" and" equity share" shall be construed
accordingly.
86. New issues of share capital to be only of two kinds. The share capital of a company limited by shares formed after the commencement of this Act, or issued after such commencement, shall be of two kinds only, namely:-
(a) equity share capital; and
(b) preference share capital.
87. Voting rights.
(1) Subject to the provisions of section 89 and sub- section (2) of section
92-
(a) every member of a company limited by shares and holding any equity share
capital therein shall have a right to vote, in respect of such capital, on
every resolution placed before the company; and
(b) his voting right on a poll shall be in proportion to his share of the paid
up equity capital of the company.
(2) (a) Subject as aforesaid and save as provided in clause (b) of this sub-
section, every member of a company limited by shares and holding any
preference share capital therein shall, in respect of such capital, have a
right to vote only on resolutions placed before the company which directly
affect the rights attached to his preference shares. Explanation.- Any
resolution for winding up the company or for the repayment or reduction of its
share capital shall be deemed directly to affect the rights attached to
preference shares within the meaning of this clause.
(b) Subject as aforesaid, every member of a company limited by shares and
holding any preference share capital therein shall, in respect of such
capital, be entitled to vote on every resolution placed before the company at
any meeting, if the dividend due on such capital or any part of such dividend
has remained unpaid-
(i) in the case of cumulative preference shares, in respect of an aggregate
period of not less than two years preceding the date of commencement of the
meeting; and
(ii) in the case of non- cumulative preference shares, either in respect of a
period of not less than two years ending with the expiry of the financial year
immediately preceding the commencement of the meeting or in respect of an
aggregate period of not less than three years comprised in the six years
ending with the expiry of the financial year aforesaid. Explanation.- For the
purposes of this clause, dividend shall be deemed to be due on preference
shares in respect of any period, whether a dividend has been declared by the
company on such shares for such period or not,-
(a) on the last day specified for the payment of such dividend for such
period, in the articles or other instrument executed by the company in that
behalf; or
(b) in case no day is so specified, on the day immediately following such
period.
(c) Where the holder of any preference share has a right to vote on any
resolution in accordance with the provisions of this sub- section, his voting
right on a poll, as the holder of such share, shall, subject to the provisions
of section 89 and sub- section (2) of section 92, be in the same proportion as
the capital paid up in respect of the preference share bears to the total paid
up equity capital of the company.
88. Prohibition of issue of shares with disproportionate rights. No company formed after the commencement of this Act, or issuing any share capital after such commencement, shall issue any shares (not being preference shares) which carry voting rights or rights in the company as to dividend, capital or otherwise which are disproportionate to the rights attaching to the holders of other shares (not being preference shares).
89. Termination of disproportionately excessive voting rights in existing companies.
(1) If at the commencement of this Act any shares, by whatever name called, of
any existing company limited by shares carry voting rights in excess of the
voting rights attaching under sub- section (1) of section 87 to equity shares
in respect of which the same amount of capital has been paid up, the company
shall, within a period of one year from the commencement of this Act, reduce
the voting rights in respect of the shares first mentioned so as to bring them
into conformity with the voting rights attached to such equity shares under
sub- section (1) of section 87.
90. 1 Savings.
(1) Nothing in sections 85, 86, 88 and 89 shall, in the case of any shares
issued by a public company before the commencement of this Act, affect any
voting rights attached to the shares save as otherwise provided in section 89,
or any rights attached to the shares as to dividend, capital or otherwise.
(2) Nothing in sections 85 to 89 shall apply to a private company, unless it
is a subsidiary of a public company.
(3) For the removal of doubts, it is hereby declared that on and from the
commencement of the Companies (Amendment) Act, 1974 (41 of 1974 ), the
provisions of section 87 shall apply in relation to the voting rights attached
to preference shares issued by a public company before the 1st day of April,
1956 , as they apply to the prefe- rence shares issued by a public company
after that date. Explanation.- For the purposes of this section references to
a public company shall be construed as including references to a private
company which is a subsidiary of a public company.] Miscellaneous provisions
as to share capital
91. Calls on shares of same class to be made on uniform basis. Where after the commencement of this Act, any calls for further share capital are made on shares, such calls shall be made on a uniform basis on all shares falling under the same class. Explanation.- For the purposes of this section, shares of the same nominal value on which different amounts have been paid up shall not be deemed to fall under the same class.
92. Power of company to accept unpaid share capital, although not called up.
(1) A company may, if so authorised by its articles, accept from any member
the whole or a part of the amount remaining un- paid on any shares held by
him, although no part of that amount has been called up.
(2) The member shall not however be entitled, where the company is one limited
by shares, to any voting rights in respect of the moneys so paid by him until
the same would. but for such payment, become presently payable.
1\. Subs. by Act 41 of 1974, S. 10, for section 90 (w. e. f. 1- 2- 1975 ).
93. Payment of dividend in proportion to amount paid up. A company may, if so authorised by its articles, pay dividends in proportion to the amount paid up on each share where a larger amount is paid up on some shares than on others.
94. Power of limited company to alter its share capital.
(1) A limited company having a share capital, may, if so authorised by its
articles, alter the conditions of is memorandum as follows, that is to say, it
may--
(a) increase its share capital by such amount as it thinks expedient by
issuing new shares;
(b) consolidate and divide all or any of its share capital into shares of
larger amount than its existing shares;
(c) convert all or any of its fully paid up shares into stock, and reconvert
that stock into fully paid up shares of any denomination;
(d) subdivide its shares, or any of them, into shares of smaller amount than
is fixed by the memorandum, so however. that in the sub- division the
proportion between the amount paid and the amount, if any, unpaid on each
reduced share shall be the same as it was in the case of the share from which
the reduced share is derived;
(e) cancel shares which, at the date of the passing of the resolution in that
behalf, have not been taken or agreed to be taken by any person, and diminish
the amount of its share capital by the amount of the shares so cancelled.
(2) The powers conferred by this section shall be exercised by the company in
general meeting and shall not require to be confirmed by the Court.
(3) A cancellation of shares in pursuance of this section shall not be deemed
to be a reduction of share capital within the meaning of this Act.
94A. 1 Share capital to stand increased where an order is made under section
81 (4).
(1) Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, where the Central
Government has, by an order made under sub- section (4) of section 81,
directed that any debenture or loan or any part thereof shall be converted
into shares in a company, the condi- tions contained in the memorandum of such
company shall, where such order has the effect of increasing the nominal share
capital of the company, stand altered and the nominal share capital of such
company shall stand increased by an amount equal to the amount of the value of
the shares into which such debentures or loans or part thereof has been
converted.
(2) Where, in pursuance of an option attached to debentures issued or loans
raised by the company, any public financial institution proposes to convert
such debentures or loans into shares in the company, the Central Government
may, on the application of such public financial institution, direct that the
conditions contained in the memorandum of such company shall stand altered and
the nominal share capital of such company shall stand increased by an amount
equal to the amount of the value of the shares into which such debentures or
loans or part thereof has been converted.
(3) Where the memorandum of a company becomes altered, whether by reason of an
order made by the Central Government under sub- section (4) of section 81 or
sub- section (2) of this section, the Central Government shall send a copy of
such order to the Registrar and also to the company and on receipt of such
order, the company shall file in the prescribed form, within thirty days from
the date of such receipt, a return to the Registrar with regard to the
increase of share capital and the Registrar shall, on receipt of such order
and return, carry out the unecessary alterations in the memorandum of the
company.
95. Notice to Registrar of consolidation of share capital conversion of shares into stock, etc.
(1) If a company having a share capital has-
(a) consolidated and divided its share capital into shares of larger amount
than its existing shares;
(b) converted any shares into stock;
(c) re- converted any stock into shares;
(d) sub- divided its shares or any of them;
1\. Ins. by Act 41 of 1974, s. 11 (w. e. f. 1- 2- 1975 ).
(e) redeemed any redeemable preference shares; or
(f) cancelled any shares, otherwise than in connection with a reduction of
share capital under sections 100 to 104; the company shall within 1 thirty
days] after doing so give notice thereof to the Registrar specifying, as the
case may be, the shares, consolidated, divided, converted, sub- divided,
redeemed or cancelled, or the stock reconverted.
(2) The Registrar shall thereupon record the notice, and make any alterations
which may be necessary in the company' s memorandum or articles or both.
(3) If default is made in complying with sub- section (1), the company, and
every officer of the company who is in default, shall be punishable with fine
which may extend to fifty rupees for every dlay during which the default
continues.
96. Effect of conversion of shares into stock. Where a company having a share capital has converted any of its shares into stock, and given notice of the conversion to the Registrar, all the provisions of this Act which are applicable to shares only, shall cease to apply as to so much of the share capital as is converted into stock.
97. Notice of increase of share capital or of members.
(1) Where a company having a share capital, whether its shares have or have
not been converted into stock, has increased its share capital beyond the
authorised capital, and where a company, not being a company limited by
shares, has increased the number of its members beyond the registered number,
it shall file with the Registrar, notice of the increase of capital or of
members within 2 thirty] days after the passing of the resolution authorising
the increase; and the Registrar shall record the increase and also make any
alterations which may be necessary in the company' s memorandum or articles or
both.
(2) The notice to be given as aforesaid shall include particulars of the
classes of shares affected and the conditions, if any, subject to which the
new shares have been or are to be issued.
(3) If default is made in complying with this section, the com- pany, and
every officer of the company who is in default, shall be
1\. Subs. by Act 31 of 1965, s. 62 and Sch., for" one month" (w. e. f. 15- 10
1965 ).
2\. Subs. by s. 62 and Sch., ibid., for" fifteen" (w. e. f. 15- 10- 1965 ).
punishable with fine which may extend to fifty rupees for every day during
which the default continues.
98. Power of unlimited company to provide for reserve share capital on re- registration. An unlimited company having a share capital may, by its resolution for registration as a limited company in pursuance of this Act, do either or both of the following things, namely:-
(a) increase the nominal amount of its share capital by increasing the nominal
amount of each of its shares, but subject to the condition that no part of the
increased capital shall be capable of being called up except in the event and
for the purposes of the company being wound up;
(b) provide that a specified portion of its uncalled share capital shall not
be capable of being called up except in the
event and for the purposes of the company being wound up.
99. Reserve liability of limited company. A limited company may, by special resolution, determine that any portion of its share capital which has not been already called up shall not be capable of being called up, except in the event and for the purposes of the company being wound up, and thereupon that portion of its share capital shall not be capable of being called up except in that event and for those purposes. Reduction of Share Capital
100. Special resolution for reduction of share capital.
(1) Subject to confirmation by the Court, a company limited by shares or a
company limited by guarantee and having a share capital, may, if so authorised
by its articles, by special resolution, reduce its share capital in any way;
and in particular and without prejudice to the generality' of the foregoing
power, may--
(a) extinguish or reduce the liability on any of its shares in respect of
share capital not paid up;
(b) either with or without extinguishing or reducing liability on any of its
shares, cancel any paid- up share capital which is lost, or is unrepresented
by available assets; or
(c) either with or without extinguishing or reducing liability on any of its
shares, pay off any paid- up share capital which is in excess of the wants of
the company; and may, if and so far as is necessary, alter its memorandum by
reducing the amount of its share capital and of its shares accordingly.
(2) A special resolution under this section is in this Act referred to as" a
resolution for reducing share capital".
101. Application to Court for cofirming order, objections by creditors, and settlement of list of objecting creditors.
(1) Where a company has passed a resolution for reducing share capital, it may
apply, by petition, to the Court for an order confirming the reduction.
(2) Where the- proposed reduction of share capital involves either the
diminution of liability In respect of unpaid share capital or the payment to
any shareholder of any paid- up share capital, and in any other case if the
Court so directs, the following provisions shall have effect, subject to the
provisions of sub- section (3):-
(a) every creditor of the company who at the date fixed by the Court is
entitled to any debt or claim which, if that
date were the commencement of the winding up of the company, would be
admissible in proof against the company, shall be entitled to object to the
reduction;
(b) the Court shall settle a list of creditors so entitled to object, and for
that purpose shall ascertain, as far as possible without requiring an
application from any creditor, the names of those creditors and the nature and
amount of their debts or claims, and may publish notices fixing a day or days
within which creditors not entered on the list are to claim to be so entered
or are to be excluded from the right of objecting to the reduction;
(c) where a creditor entered on the list whose debt or claim is not discharged
or has not determined does not consent to the reduction', the Court may, if it
thinks fit, dispense with the consent of that creditor, on the company
securing payment of his debt or claim by appropriating, as the Court may
direct, the following amount:-
(i) if the company admits the full amount of the debt or claim, or, though not
admitting it, is willing to provide for it, then, the full amount of the debt
or claim;
(ii) if the company does not admit and is not willing to provide for the full
amount of the debt or claim, or if the amount is contingent or not,
ascertained, then, an amount fixed by the Court after the like inquiry and
adjudication as if the company were being wound up by the Court.
(3) Where a proposed reduction of share capital involves either the diminution
of any liability in respect of unpaid share capital or the payment to any
share holder of any paid- up share capital, the Court may, if, having regard
to any special circumstances of the case, it thinks proper so to do, direct
that the provisions of sub- section (2) shall not apply as regards any class
or any classes of creditors.
102. Order confirming reduction and powers of court on making such order.
(1) The Court, if satisfied with respect to every creditor of the company who
under section 101 is entitled to object to the reduction, that either his
consent to the reduction has been obtained or his debt or claim has been
discharged, or has determined, or has
been secured, may make an order confirming the reduction on such terms and
conditions as it thinks fit.
(2) Where the Court makes any such order, it may-
(a) if for any special reason it thinks proper so to do, make an order
directing that the company shall, during such period commencing on, or at any
time after, the date of the order, as is specified in the order, add to its
name as the last words thereof the words" and reduced"; and
(b) make an order requiring the company to publish as the Court directs the
reasons for reduction or such other information in regard thereto as the Court
may think expedient with a view to giving proper information to the public,
and, if the Court thinks fit, the causes which led to the reduction.
(3) Where a company is ordered to add to its name the words" and reduced",
those words shall, until the expiration of the period specified in the order,
be deemed to be part of the name of the company,
103. Registration of order and minute of reduction.
(1) The Registrar-
(a) on production to him of an order of the Court confirming the reduction of
the share capital of a company; and
(b) on the delivery to him of a certified copy of the order and of a minute
approved by the Court showing, with respect to the share capital of the
company as altered by the order, (i) the amount of the share capital, (ii) the
number of shares[ into which it is to be divided, (iii) the amount of each
share and (iv) the amount, if any, at the date of the registration deemed to
be paid up on each share; shall register the order and minute.
(2) On the registration of the order and minute, and not before, the
resolution for reducing share capital as confirmed by the order shall take
effect.
(3) Notice of the registration shall be published in such manner as the Court
may direct.
(4) The Registrar shall certify under his hand the registration of the order
and minute, and his certificate shall be conclusive evidence that all the
requirements of this Act with respect to
reduction of share capital have been complied with, and that the share capital
of the company is such as is stated in the minute.
(5) The minute when registered shall be deemed to be substituted for the
corresponding part of the memorandum of the company, and shall be valid and
alterable as if it had been originally contained therein.
(6) The substitution of any such minute as aforesaid for part of the
memorandum of the company shall be deemed to be an alteration of the
memorandum within the meaning and for the purposes of section 40.
104. Liability of members in respect of reduced shares..
(1) A member of the company, past or present, shall not be liable, in respect
of any share, to any call or contribution exceeding in amount the difference,
if any, between the amount paid on the share, or the reduced amount, if any,
which is to be deemed to have been paid thereon, as the case may be, and the
amount of the share as fixed by the minute of reduction: Provided that, if any
creditor entitled in respect of any debt or claim to object to the reduction
of share capital is, by reason of his ignorance of the proceedings for
reduction or of their nature and effect with respect to his debt or claim, not
entered on the list of creditors, and after the reduction the company is
unable, within the meaning of section 434, to pay the amount of his debt or
claim, then-
(a) every person who was a member of the company at the date of the
registration of the order for reduction and minute, shall be liable to
contribute for the payment of that debt or claim an amount not exceeding the
amount which he would have been liable to contribute if the company had
commenced to be wound up on the day immediately before the said date; and
(b) if the company is wound up, the Court, on the application of any such
creditor and proof of his ignorance as aforesaid, may, if it thinks fit,
settle accordingly a list of persons so' liable to contribute, and make and
enforce calls and orders on the contributories settled on the list, as if they
were ordinary contributories in a winding up.
(2) Nothing in this section shall affect the rights of the contributories
among themselves.
105. Penalty for concealing name of creditor, etc. If any officer of the company-
(a) knowingly conceals the name of' any creditor entitled to object to the
reduction:
(b) knowingly misrepresents the nature or amount of the debt or claim of' any
creditor. or
(c) abets of is privy to any such concealment or misrepresentation as
aforesaid; he shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may
extend to one year, or with fine, or with both. Variation of Shareholders
Rights
106. 1 Alteration of rights of holders of special classes of shares. Where the share capital of a company is divided into different classes of shares, the rights attached to the shares of any class may be varied with the consent in writing of not less than three- fourths of the issued shares of that class or with the sanction of a special resolution passed at a separate meeting of the holders of the issued shares of that class--
(a) if provision with respect to such variation is contained in the memorandum
or articles of the company, or
(b) in the absence of any such provision in the memorandum or articles, if
such variation is not prohibited by the terms of issue of the shares of that
class.]
107. Rights of dissentient shareholders.
(1) If in pursuance of any provision such as is referred to in section 106,
the rights attached to any such class of shares are at any time varied, the
holders of not less in the aggregate than ten per cent. of issued shares of
that class, being persons who did not consent to or vote in favour of the
resolution for the variation, may apply to the Court to have the variation
cancelled and where any such application is made, the variation shall not have
effect unless and until it is confirmed by the Court.
(2) An application under this section shall be made within twenty- one days
after the date on which the consent was given or the resolution was passed, as
the case may be, and may be made on behalf of the shareholders entitled to
make the application by such one or more of their number as they may appoint
in writing for the purpose.
(3) On any such application, the Court. after hearing the applicant and any
other persons who apply to the Court to be heard and appear to
1\. Subs. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 26, for s. 106.
the Court to be interested in the application, may, if it is satisfied, having
regard to all the circumstances of the case, that the variation would unfairly
prejudice the shareholders of the class represented by the applicant, disallow
the variation; and shall, if not so satisfied, confirm the variation.
(4) The decision of the Court on any such application shall be final.
(5) The company shall, within 1 thirty] days after the service on the company
of any order made on any such application, forward a copy of the order to the
Registrar; and if default is made in complying with this provision, the
company, and every officer of the company who is in default, shall be
punishable with fine which may extend to fifty rupees. Transfer of shares and
debentures
108. Transfer not to be registered except on production of instrument of transfer.
(1) A company shall not register a transfer of shares in, or debentures of,
the company, unless a proper instrument of transfer duly stamped and executed
by or on behalf of the transferor and by or on behalf of the transferee and
specifying the name, address and occupation, if any, of the transferee, has
been delivered to the company along with the certificate relating to the
shares or debentures, or if no such certificate is in existence, along with
the letter of allotment of the shares or debentures: Provided that where, on
an application in writing made to the company by the transferee and bearing
the stamp required for an instrument of transfer, it is proved to the
satisfaction of the Board of directors that the instrument of transfer signed
by or on behalf of the transferor and by or on behalf of the transferee has
been lost, the company may register the transfer on such terms as to indemnity
as the Board may think fit: Provided further that nothing in this section
shall prejudice any power of the company to register as shareholder or
debenture holder any person to whom the right to any shares in, or debentures
of, the company has been transmitted by operation of law. 2 3 (1A) Every
instrument of transfer of shares shall be in such form as may be prescribed,
and-
(a) every such form shall, before it is signed by or on behalf of the
transferor and before any entry is made therein, be presented to the
prescribed authority, being a person
1\. Subs. by Act 31 of 1965, s. 62 and Sch., for" fifteen" (w. e. f. 15- 10-
1965 ).
2\. Ins. by s. 13, ibid. (w. e. f. 1- 4- 1966 ).
3\. Subs. by Act 37 of 1966, s. 2. for sub- sections (1A), (1B) and (1C) (w.
e. f. 1- 4- 1966 ).
already in the service of the Government, who shall stamp or otherwise endorse
thereon the date on which it is so presented, and
(b) every instrument of transfer in the prescribed form with the date of such
presentation stamped or otherwise en- dorsed thereon shall, after it is
executed by or on behalf of the transferor and the transferee and completed in
all other respects, be delivered to the company,-
(i) in the case of shares dealt in or quoted on a re- cognised stock exchange,
at any time before the date on which the register of members is closed, in
accordance with law, for the first time after the date of the presentation of
the prescribed form to the prescribed authority under clause (a) or within 1
twelve months] from the date of such presentation, whichever is latter;
(ii) in any other case, within two months from the date of such presentation.
(1B) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub- section (1A),- an instrument
of transfer of shares, executed before the commencement of section 13 of the
Companies (Amendment) Act, 1965 , (31 of 1965 ). or executed after such
commencement in a form other than the prescribed form, shall be accepted by a
company,-
(a) in the case of shares dealt in or quoted on a recognised stock exchange,
at any time not later than the expiry of six months from such commencement or
the date on which the register of members is closed, in accordance with law,
for the first time after such commencement, whichever is later;
(b) in any other case, at any time not later than the expiry of six months
from such commencement.
(1C) Nothing contained in sub- sections (1A) and (1B) shall apply to-
(A) any share-
(i) which is held by a company in any other body corporate in the name of a
director or nominee in pursuance of sub- section (2), or as the case may be,
sub- section (3), of section 49, or
(ii) which is held by a corporation, owned or controlled by the Central
Government or a State Government, in any other body corporate in the name of a
director or nominee, or
1\. Subs. by Act 31 of 1988, s. 15 (w. e. f. 15- 6- 1988 ).
(iii) in respect of which a declaration has been made to the Public Trustee
under section 153B, if-
(1) the company or corporation, as the case may be, stamps or otherwise
endorses, on the form of transfer in respect of such share, the date on which
it decides that such share shall not be held in the name of the said director
or nominee or, as the case may be, in the case of any share in respect of
which any such declaration has been made to the Public Trustee, the Public
Trustee stamps or otherwise endorses, on the form of transfer in respect of
such share under his seal, the date on which the form is presented to him, and
(2) the instrument of transfer in such form, duly completed in all respects,
is delivered to the-
(a) body corporate in, whose share such company or corporation has made
investment in the name of its director or nominee, or
(b) company in which such share is held in trust, within two months of the
date so stamped or otherwise endorsed; or
(B) any share deposited by any person with-
(i) the State Bank of India, or
(ii) any scheduled bank, or
(iii) any banking company (other than a scheduled bank) or financial
institution approved by the Central Government by notification in the Official
Gazette (and any such approval may be accorded so as to be retros- pective to
any date not earlier than the 1st day of April, 1966 ), or
(iv) the Central Government or a State Government or any corporation owned or
controlled by the Central Government or a State Government, by way of security
for the repayment of any loan or ad- vance to, or for the performance of any
obligation undertaken by, such person, if-
(1) the bank, institution, Government or corporation, as the case may be,
stamps or otherwise endorses on the form of transfer of such share-
(a) the date on which such share is returned by it to the depositor, or
(b) in the case of failure on the part of the depositor to repay the loan or
advance or to perform the obligation, the date on which such share is released
for sale by such bank. institution, Government or corporation, as the case may
be, or
(c) where the bank, institution, Government or corporation, as the case may
be, intends to get such share registered in its own name, the date on which
the instrument of transfer relating to such share is executed by it; and
(2) the instrument of transfer in such form, duly completed in all respects,
is delivered to the company within two months from the date so stamped or
endorsed. Explanation.- Where any investment by a company or a cor- poration
in the name of its director or nominee referred to in clause (A) (i) or clause
(A) (ii), or any declaration referred to in clause (A) (iii), or any deposit
referred to in clause (B), of this sub- section is made after the expiry of
the period or date mentioned in clause (a) of sub- section (1B) or after the
expiry of the period mentioned in clause (b) of that sub- section, as the case
may be, the form of transfer, in respect of the share which is the subject of
such investment, declaration or deposit, means the prescribed form; or
(C) any share which is held in any company by the Central Government or a
State Government in the name of its nominee, except that every instrument of
transfer which is executed on or after the 1st day of October, 1966 , in
respect of any such share shall be in the prescribed form.]
(1D) Notwithstanding anything in sub- section (1A) or sub- section (1B) 1 or
sub- section (1C)], where in the opinion of the Central Gov- ernment it is
necessary so to do to avoid hardship in any case, that Government may on an
application made to it in that behalf, extend the periods mentioned in those
sub- sections by such further time as it may deem fit 1 whether such
application is made before or after the expiry of the periods aforesaid]; and
the number of extensions
1\. Ins. by Act 37 of 1966, s. 2 (w. e. f. 1- 4- 1966 ).
granted hereunder and the period of each such extension shall be shown in the
annual report laid before the Houses of Parliament under section 638.]
(2) In the case of a company having no share capital, sub- section (1) shall
apply as if the references therein to shares were references instead to the
interest of the member in the company.
(3) 1 Nothing contained in this section shall apply to transfer of security
effected by the transferor and the transferee both of whome are entered as
beneficial owners in the records of a depository.]
Restriction on acquisition of certain shares.
108A. 2 Restriction on acquisition of certain shares.
(1) Except with the previous approval of the Central Government, no
individual, firm, group, constituent of a group, body corporate or bodies
corporate under the same management, shall jointly or severally acquire or
agree to acquire, whether in his or its own name or in the name of any other
person, any equity shares in a public company, or a private company which is a
subsidiary of a public company, if the total nominal value of the equity
shares intended to be so acquired exceeds, or would, together with the total
nominal value of any equity shares already held in the company by such
individual, firm, group, constituent of a group, body corporate or bodies
corporate under the same management, exceed twenty- five per cent. of the
paid- up equity share capital of such company.
(2) Where any individual, firm. group constituent of a group, body corporate
or bodies corporate under the same management (hereafter in this Act referred
to as the acquirer), is prohibited, by sub- section (1), from acquiring or
agreeing to acquire except with the previous approval of the Central
Government, any share of a public company or a private company which is a
subsidiary of the company, no-
(a) company in which not less than fifty- one per cent of the share capital is
held by the Central Government; or
(b) corporation (not being a company) established by or under any Central Act;
or
(c) financial institution, shall transfer or agree to transfer any share to
such acquirer unless such acquirer has obtained the previous approval of the
Central Government for the acquisition, or agreement for the acquisition, of
such share.
Restriction on transfer of shares.
108B. Restriction on transfer of shares.
(1) Every body corporate or bodies corporate under the same management,
holding, whether singly or in the aggregate, ten per cent. or more of the
nominal value of the subscribed equity share capital of any other company
shall, before transferring one or more of such shares, give to the Central
Government an intimation of its or their proposal to transfer such share, and
every such intimation shall include a statement as to the particulars of the
share proposed to be transferred, the name and address of the person to whom
the share is proposed to be transferred, the share holding, if any, of the
proposed transferee in the concerned company and such other particulars as may
be prescribed.
(2) Where, on receipt of an intimation given under sub- section (1) or
otherwise, the Central Government is satisfied that as a result of such
transfer, a change in the composition of the Board of directors of the company
is likely to take place and that such change would be prejudicial to the
interests of the company or to the public interest, it may, by order, direct
that-
(a) no such share shall be transferred to the proposed transferee: Provided
that no such order shall preclude the body corporate or bodies corporate from
intimating in accordance with the provisions of sub- section (1), to the
Central Government its or their proposal to transfer the share to any other
person, or
(b) where such share is held in a company engaged in any industry specified in
Schedule XV, such share shall be trans- ferred to the Central Government or to
such corporation owned or controlled by that Government as may be specified in
the direction.
(3) Where a direction is made by the Central Government under clause (b) of
sub- section (2), the share referred to in such direction shall stand
transferred to the Central Government or to the Corporation specified therein,
and the Central Government or the specified corporation, as the case may be,
shall pay. in cash, to the body corporate or bodies corporate from which such
share stands transferred, an amount equal to the market value of such share,
within the time specified in sub- section (4). Explanation.-- In this sub-
section," market value" means, in the case of a share which is quoted on any
recognised stock exchange, value quoted at such stock exchange on the date
immediately preceding the date on which the direction is made, and, in any
other case, such value as may be mutually agreed upon between the holder of
the share and the Central Government or the specified corporation, as the case
may be, or in the absence of such agreement, as may be determined by the
court.
(4) The market value referred to in sub- section (3) shall be given forthwith,
where there is no dispute as to such value or where such value has been
mutually agreed upon, but where there is a dispute as to the market value,
such value as is estimated by the Central Government or the corporation, as
the case may be, shall be given forthwith and the balance, if any, shall be
given within thirty days from the date when the market value is determined by
the court.
(5) If the Central Government does not make any direction under sub- section
(2) within sixty days from the date of receipt by it of the intimation given
under sub- section (1), the provisions contained in sub- section (2) with
regard to the transfer of such share shall not apply.
Restriction on the transfer of shares of foreign companies.
108C. Restriction on the transfer of shares of foreign companies. No body
corporate or bodies corporate under the same management, which holds. or hold
in the aggregate, ten per cent. or more of the nominal value of the equity
share capital of a foreign company, having an established place of business in
India, shall transfer any share in such foreign company to any citizen of
India or any body corporate incorporated in India except with the previous
approval of the Central Government and such previous approval shall not be
refused unless the Central Government is of opinion that such transfer would
be prejudicial to the public interest.
Power of Central Government to direct companies not to give effect tothe
transfer.
108D. Power of Central Government to direct companies not to give effect to
the transfer.
(1) Where the Central Government is satisfied that as a result of the transfer
of any share or block of shares of a company, a change in the controlling
interest of the company is likely to take place and that such change would be
prejudicial to the interests of the company or to the public interest, that
Government may direct the company not to give effect to the transfer of any
such share or block of shares and-
(a) where the transfer of such share or block of shares has already been
registered, not to permit the transferee or any nominee or proxy of the
transferee, to exercise any voting or other rights attaching to such share or
block of shares; and
(b) where the transfer of such share or block of shares has not been
registered, not to permit any nominee or proxy of the transferor to exercise
any voting or other rights attaching to such share or block of shares.
(2) Where any direction is given by the Central Government under sub- section
(1), the share or the block of shares referred to therein shall stand
retransferred to the person from whom it was acquired, and thereupon the
amount paid by the transferee for the acquisition of such share or block of
shares shall be refunded to him by the person to whom such share or block of
shares stands or stand retransferred.
(3) If the refund referred' GO in sub- section (2) is not made within the
period of thirty days from the date of the direction referred to in sub-
section (1), the Central Government shall, on the application of the person
entitled to get the refund, direct, by order, the refund of such amount and
such order may be enforced as if it were a decree made by a civil court.
(4) The person to whom any share or block of shares stands or stand
retransferred under sub- section (2) shall, on making refund under sub-
section (2) or sub- section (3), be eligible to exercise voting or other
rights attaching to such share or block of shares.
Time within which refusal to be communicated.
108E. Time within which refusal to be communicated. Every request made to the
Central Government for according its approval to the proposal for the
acquisition of any share referred to in section 108A or the transfer of any
share referred to in section 108C shall be presumed to have been granted
unless, within a period of sixty days from the date of receipt of such
request, the Central Government communicates to the person by whom the request
was made, that the approval prayed for cannot be granted.
Nothing in sections 108A to 108D to apply to Government companies, etc.
108F. Nothing in sections 108A to 108D to apply to Government companies, etc.
Nothing contained in section 108A[ except sub- section (2) thereof] shall
apply to the transfer of any share to, and nothing in section 108B or section
108C or section 108D shall apply to the transfer of any share by-
(a) any company in which not less than fifty- one per cent. of the share
capital is held by the Central Government;
(b) any corporation (not being a company) established by or under any Central
Act;
(c) any financial institution.
Applicability of the provisions of sections 108A to 108F.
108G. Applicability of the provisions of sections 108A to 108F. The provisions
of sections 108A to 108F (both inclusive) shall apply to the acquisition or
transfer of shares or share capital by, or to, an individual, firm, group,
constituent of a group, body corporate or bodies corporate under the same
management, who or which-
(a) is, in case of acquisition of shares or share capital, the owner in
relation to a dominant undertaking and there would be, as a result of such
acquisition, any increase-
(i) in the production, supply, distribution or control of any goods that are
produced, supplied, distributed or controlled in India or any substantial part
thereof by that dominant undertaking, or
(ii) in the provision or control of any services that are rendered in India or
any substantial part thereof by that dominant undertaking; or
(b) would be, as a result of such acquisition or transfer of shares or share
capital, the owner of a dominant undertaking; or
(c) is, in case of, transfer of shares or share capital, the owner in
relations to a dominant undertaking.
Penalty for acquisition or transfer of share in contravention ofsections 108A
to 108D.
108H. Construction of certain expressions used in sections 108A to 108G. The
expressions" group"," same management"," financial institution"," dominant
undertaking" and" owner" used in sections 108A to 108G (both inclusive), shall
have the meanings respectively assigned to them in the Monopolies and
Restrictive Trade Practices Act, 1969 (54 of 1969 ).
108I. 3 Penalty for acquisition or transfer of share in contravention of
sections 108A to 108D.
(1) Any person who acquires any share in contravention of the provisions of
section 108A shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend
to three years, or with fine which may extend to five thousand rupees, or with
both.
(2) (a) Every body corporate which makes any transfer of shares without giving
any intimation is required by section 108B, shall be punishable with fine
which may extend to five thousand rupees.
(b) Where any contravention of the provisions of section 108B has been made by
a company, every officer of the company. who in default shall be punishable
with imprisonment for a term which may extend to three years, or with fine
which may extend to five thousand rupees, or with both.
(3) (a) Every body corporate which makes any transfer of shares in
contravention of the provisions of section 108C, shall be punish- able with
fine which may extend to five thousand rupees.
(b) Where any contravention of the provisions of section 108C has been made by
a company, every officer of the company who is in default shall be punishable
with imprisonment for a term which may ex- tend to three years, or with fine
which may extend to five thousand rupees, or with both.
(4) (a) Every person who transfers any share in contravention of any order
made by the Central Government under section 108B, or gives effect to any
transfer of shares made in contravention of any direction made by the Central
Government under section 108D, or who exercises any voting right in respect of
any share in contravention of any direction made by the Central Government
under section 108D, shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may
extend to five years and shall also be liable to fine.
(b) If any company gives effect to any voting or other right exercised in
relation to any share acquired in contravention of the provisions of section
108B, or which gives effect to any voting right in contravention of any
direction made by the Central Government under section 108D the company shall
be punishable with fine which may extend to five thousand rupees, and every
officer of the company who is in default shall be punishable with imprisonment
for a term which may exetend to three years, or with fine which may extend to
five tho- usand rupees, or with both.
1\. Ins. by Act 22 of 1996, s. 31 and Sch. (w. e. f. 20- 9- 1995 ).
2\. Sections 108A to 108H were ins. by Act 41 of 1974, s. 12 (w. e. f. 1- 2-
1975 ) and omitted by Act 30 of 1984, s. 52 (w. e. f. 1- 8- 1984 ) now ins. by
Act 58 of 1991, s. 28 (w. e. f. 27- 9- 1991 ).
3\. Ins. by Act 58 of 1991, s. 28 (w. e. f. 27- 9- 1991 ).
(3) For the purposes of sub- section (2), notice to the transferee shall be
deemed to have been duly given if it is despatched by pre- paid registered
post to the transferee at the address given in the instrument of transfer and
shall be deemed to have been duly deli- vered at the time at which It would
have been delivered in the ordinary course of post.
111. 1 Power to refuse registration and appeal against refual.
(1) If a company refuses, whether in pursuance of any power of the company
under its articles or otherwise, to register, the transfer of, or the
transmission by operation of law of the right to, any shares or interest of a
member in, or debentures of, the company, it shall, within two months from the
date on which the instrument of transfer, or the intimation of such
transmission, as the case may be, was delivered to the company, send notice of
the refusal to the transferee and the transferor or to the person giving
intimation of such transmission, as the case may be, giving reasons for such
refusal.
(2) The transferer or transferee, or the person who gave inti- mation of the
transmission by operation of law, as the case may be, may appeal to the
Company Law Board against any refusal of the company to register the transfer
or transmission, or against any failure on its part within the period referred
to in subsection (1), either to register the transfer or transmission or to
send notice of its refusal to register the same.
(3) An appeal under sub- section (2) shall be made within two months of the
receipt of the notice of such refusal or, where no notice has been sent by the
company, within four months from the date on which the instrument of transfer,
or the intimation of transmission, as the case may be', was delivered to the
company.
(4) If-
(a) the name of any person-
(i) is, without sufficient cause, entered in the register of members of a
company, or
(ii) after having been entered in the register, is, without sufficient cause,
omitted therefrom; or
(b) default is made, or unnecessary delay takes place, in entering in the
register the fact of any person having become, or ceased to be, a member[
including a refusal under sub- section (1)], the person aggrieved, or any
member of the company, or the company, may apply to the Company Law Board for
rectification of the register.
(5) The Company Law Board, while dealing with an appeal preferred under sub-
section (2) or an application made under sub- section (4) may, after hearing
the parties, either dismiss the appeal or reject the application, or by order-
(a) direct that the transfer or transmission shall be registered by the
company and the company shall comply with such order within ten days of the
receipt of the order; or
(b) direct rectification of the register and also direct the company to pay
damages, if any, sustained by any party aggrieved.
(6) The Company Law Board, while acting under sub- section (5), may, at its
discretion make-
(a) such interim orders, including any orders as to injunction or stay, as it
may deem fit and just;
(b) such orders as to costs as it thinks fit; and
(c) incidental or consequential orders regarding payment of dividend or the
allotment of bonus or rights shares.
(7) On any application under this section, the Company Law Board-
(a) may decide any question relating to the title of any person who is a party
to the application to have his name entered in, or omitted from, the register;
(b) generally, may decide any question which it is neces- sary or expedient to
decide in connection with the application for rectification.
(8) The provisions of sub- sections (4) to (7) shall apply in relation to the
rectification of the register of debenture- holders as they apply in relation
to the rectification of the register of members.
(9) If default is made in giving effect to the orders of the Company Law Board
under this section, the company and every officer of the company who is in
default shall be punishable with fine which may extend to one thousand rupees,
and with a further fine which may extend to one hundred rupees for every day
after the first day after which the default continues.
(10) Every appeal or application to the Company Law Board under sub- section
(2) or sub- section (4) shall be made by a petition in writing and shall be
accompanied by such fee as may be prescribed.
(11) In the case of a private company which is not a subsidiary of a public
company, where the right to any shares or interest of a member in, or
debentures of, the company is transmitted by a sale thereof held by a court or
other public authority, the provisions of sub- sections (4) to (7) shall apply
as if the company were a public company: Provided that the Company Law Board
may, in lieu of an order under sub- section (5), pass an order directing the
company to register the transmission of the right unless any member or members
of the company specified in the order acquire the right aforesaid within such
time as may, be allowed for the purpose by the order, on payment to the
purchaser of the price paid by him therefore or such other sum as the Company
Law Board may determine to be a reasonable compensation for the right in all
the circumstances of the case.
(12) If default is made in complying with any of the provisions of this
section, the company and every officer of the company who is in default, shall
be punishable with fine which may extend to fifty rupees for every day during
which the default continues.
(13) Nothing in this section and section 108, 109 or 110 shall prejudice any
power of a private company under its articles to enforce the restrictions
contained therein against the right to transfer the shares of such company.
(14) 2 In this section" company" means a private company and in- cludes a
private company which had become a public company by virue of section 43A of
this Act.]
1\. Subs. by Act 31 of 1988, s. 16 (w. e. f. 31- 5- 1991 ).
2\. Ins. by Act 22 of 1996, S. 31 and Sch. (w. e. f. 20- 9- 1995 ).
Rectification of register of transfer.
111A. 1 Rectification of register of transfer.
(1) In this section, unless the context otherwise requires," company" means a
company other than a company referred to in sub- section (14) of section 111
of this Act.
(2) Subject to the provisions of this section, the shares or debentures and
any interest therein of a company shall be freely transferable.
(3) The Company Law Board may, on an application made by a depository,
company, participant or investor or the Securities and Exchange Board of India
within two months from the date of transfer of any shares or debentures held
by a depository or from the date on which the instrument of transfer or the
intimation of transmission was delivered to the company, as the case may, be,
after such enquiry as it thinks fit, direct any company or depository to
rectify register or records if the transfer of the shares or debentures is in
contravention of any of the provisions of the Securities and Exchange Board of
India Act, 1992 (15 of 1992 ), or regulations made thereunder or the Sick
Industrial Companies (Special Provisions) Act, 1985 (1 of 1986 ).
(4) The Company Law Board while acting under sub- section (3), may at its
descretion make such interim order as to suspend the voting rights before
making or completing such enquiry.
(5) The provisions of this section shall not restrict the right of a holder of
shares or debentures, to transfer such shares or debentures and any person
acquiring such shares or debentures shall be entitled to voting rights unless
the voting rights have been suspended by an order of the Company Law Board.
(6) Notwithstanding anything contained in this section, any further transfer,
during the pendency of the application with the Company Law Board, of shares
or debentures shall entitle the transferee to voting rights unless the voting
rights in respect of such transferee have also been suspended.
(7) The provisions of sub- sections (5), (7), (9), (10) and (12) of section
111 shall, so far as may be, apply to the proceedings before the Company Law
Board under this section as they apply to the proceedings under that section].
1\. Ins. by Act 22 of 1986, s. 31 and Sch. (20 - 9- 1995 ).
112. Certification of transfers.
(1) The certification by a company of any instrument of transfer of shares in,
or debentures of, the company, shall be taken as a representation by the
company to any person acting on the faith of the certification that there have
been produced to the company such documents as on the face of them show a
prima facie title to the shares or debentures in the transferor named in the
instrument of transfer, but not as a representation that the transferor has
any title to the shares or debentures.
(2) Where any person acts on the faith of an erroneous certification made by a
company negligently, the company shall be under the same liability to him as
if the certification had been made fraudulently.
(3) For the purposes of this section-
(a) an instrument of transfer shall be deemed to be certificated if it bears
the words" certificate lodged" or words to the like effect;
(b) the certification of an instrument of transfer shall be deemed to be made
by a company, if-
(i) the person issuing the certificated instrument is a person authorised to
issue such instruments of transfer on the company' s behalf; and
(ii) the certification is signed by any officer or servant of the company or
any other person, authorised to certificate transfers on the company' s
behalf, or if a body corporate has been so authorised, by any officer or
servant of that body corporate;
(c) a certification shall be deemed to be signed by any person, if it purports
to be authenticated by his signature unless it is shown that the signature was
placed there neither by himself nor by any person authorised to use the
signature for the purpose of certificating transfers on the company' s behalf.
Issue of Certificate of Shares, etc.
113. Limitation of time for issue of certificates.
(1) 1 Every company, unless prohibited by any provision of law or of any order
of any court, tribunal or other authority, shall, within three months after
the allotment of any of its shares, debentures or debenture stock, and within
two months after the application for the registration of the transfer of any
such shares, debentures or debenture stock, deliver, in accordance with the
procedure laid down in section 53, the certificates of all shares, debentures
and certificates of debenture stocks allotted or transferred: Provided that
the Company Law Board may, on an application being made to it in this behalf
by the company, extend any of the periods within which the certificates of all
debentures and debenture stocks allotted or transferred shall be delivered
under this sub- section, to a further period not exceeding nine months, if it
is satisfied that it is not possible for the company to deliver such
certificates within the said periods.]
1\. Subs. by Act 31 of 1988, s. 17 (w. e. f. 15- 6- 1988 ).
The expression" transfer", for the purposes of this sub- section, means a
transfer duly stamped and otherwise valid, and does not include any transfer
which the company is for any reason entitled to refuse to register and does
not register.
(2) If default is made in complying with sub- section (1), the company, and
every officer of the company who is in default, shall be punishable with fine
which may extend to five hundred rupees for every day during which the default
continues.
(3) If any company on which a notice- has been served requiring it to make
good any default in complying with the provisions of sub- section (1), fails
to make good the default within ten days after the service of the notice, the
1 Company Law Board] may, on the application of the person entitled to have
the certificates or the debentures delivered to him, make an order directing
the company and any officer of the company to make good the default within
such time as may be specified in the order; and any such order may provide
that all costs of and incidental to the application shall be borne by the
company or by any officer of the company responsible for the default.
(4) 2 Notwithstanding anything contained in sub- section (1), where the
securities are dealt with in a depository, the company shall inti- mate the
details of allotment of securities to depository immediately on allotment of
such securities.] Share warrants
114. Issue and effect of share warrants to bearer.
(1) A public company limited by shares, if so authorised by its articles, may,
with the previous approval of the Central Government, with respect to any
fully paid- up shares, issue under its common seal a warrant stating that the
bearer of the warrant is entitled to the shares therein specified, and may
provide, by coupons or otherwise, for the payment of the future dividends on
the shares specified in the warrant.
(2) The warrant aforesaid is in this Act referred to as a" share warrant".
(3) A share warrant shall entitle the bearer thereof to the shares therein
specified, and the shares may be transferred by delivery of the warrant.
115. Share warrants and entries in register of members.
(1) On the issue of a share warrant, the company shall strike out of its
register of members the name of the member then entered therein as holding the
shares specified in the warrant as if he had ceased to be a member, and shall
enter in that register the following particulars, namely:-
(a) the fact of the issue of the warrant;
(b) a statement of the shares specified in the warrant, distinguishing each
share by its number; and
(c) the date of the issue of the warrant.
(2) The bearer of a share warrant shall, subject to the articles of the
company, be entitled, on surrendering the warrant for cancella- tion and
paying such fee to the company as the, Board of directors may from time to
time determine, to have his name entered as a member in the register of
members.
1\. Subs. by Act 31 of 1988, s. 17 (w. e. f. 31- 5- 1991 ).
2\. Ins. by Act 22 of 1996, s. 31 and Sch. (w. e. f. 20- 9- 1995 ).
(3) The company shall be responsible for any loss incurred by any person by
reason of the company entering in its register of mem- bers the name of a
bearer of a share warrant in respect of the shares therein specified, without
the warrant being surrendered and cancelled.
(4) Until the warrant is surrendered, the particulars specified in sub-
section (1) shall be deemed to be the particulars required by this Act to be
entered in the register of members; and, on the surrender, the date of the
surrender shall be entered in that register.
(5) Subject to the provisions of this Act, the bearer of a share warrant may,
if the articles of the company so provide, be deemed to be a member of the
company within the meaning of this Act, for any purposes defined in the
articles.
(6) If default is made in complying with any of the requirements of this
section, the company and every officer of the company who is in default, shall
be punishable with fine which may extend to fifty rupees for every day during
which the default continues. Penalty for personation of shareholder
116. Penalty for personation of shareholder. If any person deceitfully personates an owner of any share or interest in a company or of any share warrant or coupon issued in pursuance of this Act, and thereby obtains or attempts to obtain any such share or interest or any such share warrant or coupon, or receives or attempts to receive any money due to any such owner, he shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to three years and shall also be liable to fine. Special Provisions as to Debentures
117. Debentures with voting rights not to be issued hereafter. No company shall, after the commencement of this Act, issue any debentures carrying voting rights at any meeting of the company whether generally or in respect of particular classes of business.
118. Right to obtain copies of and inspect trust deed.
(1) A copy of any trust deed for securing any issue of debentures shall be
forwarded to the holder of any such debentures or any member of the company,
at his request and within seven days of the making thereof, on payment-
(a) in the case of a printed trust deed, of 1 such sum as may be prescribed];
and
1\. Subs. by Act 31 of 1988, s. 67 (w. e. f. 15- 7- 1988 ).
(b) in the case of a trust deed which has not been printed, of 1 such sum as
may be prescribed for] every one hundred words or fractional part thereof
required to be copied.
(2) If a copy is refused, or is not forwarded within the time specified in
sub- section (1), the company, and every officer of the company who is in
default, shall be punishable, for each offence, with fine which may extend to
fifty rupees and with a further fine which may extend to twenty rupees for
every day during which the offence continues.
(3) The 2 Company Law Board] also, by order. direct that the copy required
shall forthwith be sent to the person requiring it.
(4) The trust deed referred to in sub- section (1) shall also be open to
inspection by any member or debenture holder of the company in the same
manner, to the same extent, and on payment of the same fees, as if it were the
register of members of the company.
119. Liability of trustees for debenture holders.
(1) Subject to the provisions of this section, any provision contained in a
trust deed, for securing an issue of debentures, or in any contract with the
holders of debentures secured by a trust deed, shall be void in so far as, it
would have the effect of exempting a trustee thereof from. or indemnifying him
against liability for breach of trust, where he fails to show the degree of
care and diligence required of him as trustee, having regard to the provisions
of the trust deed conferring on him, any powers, authorities or discretions.
(2) Sub- section (1) shall not invalidate-
(a) any release otherwise validly given in respect of anything done or omitted
to be done by a trustee before the giving of the release; or
(b) any provision enabling such a release to be given-
(i) on the agreement thereto of a majority of not less than three fourths in
value of the debenture holders present and voting in person or, where proxies
are per- mitted, by proxy, at a meeting summoned for the purpose; and
(ii) either with respect to specific acts or commissions or on the trustee
dying or ceasing to act.
(3) Sub- section (1) shall not operate-
(a) to invalidate any provision in force at the commencement of this Act so
long as any person then entitled to the benefit of that provision or
afterwards given the benefit
1\. Subs. by Act 31 of 1988, s. 67 (w. e. f. 15- 7- 1988 ).
2\. Subs. by s. 67, ibid, (w. e. f. 31- 5- 1991 ).
thereof under sub- section (4) remains a trustee of the deed in question; or
(b) to deprive any person of any exemption or right to be indemnified in
respect of anything done or omitted to be done by him while any such provision
was in force.
(4) While any trustee of a trust deed remains entitled to the benefit of a
provision saved by sub- section (3), the benefit of that provision may be
given either-
(a) to all trustees of the deed, present and future; or
(b) to any named trustees or proposed trustees thereof; by a resolution passed
by a majority of not less than three- fourths in value of the debenture
holders present in person or, where proxies are permitted, by proxy, at a
meeting called for the purpose in accordance with the provisions of the deed
or, if the deed makes no provision for calling meetings, at a meeting called
for the purpose in any manner approved by the Court.
120. Perpetual debentures. A condition contained in any debentures or in any deed for securing any debentures, whether issued or executed before or after the commencement of this Act, shall not be invalid by reason only that thereby, the debentures are made irredeemable or redeemable only on the happening of a contingency, however remote, or on the expiration of a period, however long.
121. Power to re- issue redeemed debentures in certain cases.
(1) Where either before or after the commencement of this Act, a company has
redeemed any debentures previously issued, then,-
(a) unless any provision to the contrary, whether express or implied, is
contained in the articles, or in the conditions of issue, or in any contract
entered into by the company; or
(b) unless the company has, by passing a resolution to that effect or by some
other act, manifested its intention that the debentures shall be cancelled;
the company shall have, and shall be deemed always to have had, the right to
keep the debentures alive for the purposes of re- issue; and in exercising
such a right, the company shall have. and shall be deemed always to have had,
power to re- issue the debentures either by re- issuing the same debentures or
by issuing other debentures in their place.
(2) Upon such re- issue, the person entitled to the debentures shall have, and
shall be deemed always to have had, the same rights and priorities as if the
debentures had never been redeemed.
(3) Where with the object of keeping debentures alive for the purpose of re-
issue, they have, either before or after the commence- ment of this Act, been
transferred to a nominee of the company, a transfer from that nominee shall be
deemed to be a re- issue for the purposes of this section.
(4) Where a company has, either before or after the commencement of this Act,
deposited any of its debentures to secure advances from time to time on
current account or otherwise, the debentures shall not be deemed to have been
redeemed by reason only of the account of the company having ceased to be in
debit whilst the debentures remained so deposited.
(5) The re- issue of a debenture or the issue of another debenture in its
place under the power by this section given to, or deemed to have been
possessed by, a company, whether the re- issue or issue was made before or
after the commencement of this Act, shall be treated as the issue of a new
debenture for the purposes of stamp duty, but it shall not be so treated for
the purposes of any provision limiting the amount or number of debentures to
be issued: Provided that any person lending money on the security of a
debenture re- issued under this section which appears to be duly stamped may
give the debenture in evidence in any proceedings for enforcing his security
without payment of the stamp duty or any penalty in respect thereof, unless he
had notice or, but for his negligence, might have discovered, that the
debenture was not duly stamped; but in any such case the company shall be
liable to pay the proper stamp duty and penalty.
(6) Nothing in this section shall prejudice-
(a) the operation of any decree or order of a Court of competent jurisdiction
pronounced or made before the twenty- fifth day of February, 1910 , as between
the parties to the proceedings in which the decree or order was made;
(b) where an appeal has been preferred against any such decree or order the
operation of any decree or order passed on such appeal, as between the parties
to such appeal; or
(c) any power to issue debentures in the place of any debentures paid off or
otherwise satisfied or extinguished,
reserved to a company by its debentures or the securities for the same.
122. Specific performance of contract to subscribe for debentures. A contract with a company to take up and pay for any debentures of the company may be enforced by a decree for specific performance.
123. Payments of certain debts out of assets subject to floating charge in priority to claims under the charge.
(1) Where either-
(a) a receiver is appointed on behalf of the holders of any debentures of a
company secured by a floating charge; or
(b) possession is taken by or on behalf of those debenture holders of any
property comprised in or subject to the charge; then, if the company is not at
the time in course of being wound up, the debts which in every winding up are,
under the provisions of Part VII relating to preferential payments, to be paid
in priority to all other debts, shall be paid forthwith out of any assets
coming to the hands of the receiver or other person taking possession as
aforesaid in priority to any claim for principal. or interest in respect of
the debentures.
(2) In the application of the provisions aforesaid, section 530 shall be
construed as if the provision for payment of accrued- holiday remuneration
becoming payable on the termination of employment before or by the effect of
the winding up order or resolution were a provision for payment of such
remuneration becoming payable on the termination of employment before or by
the effect of the appointment of the receiver or possession being taken as
aforesaid.
(3) The periods of time mentioned in the said provisions of Part VII shall be
reckoned from the date of appointment of the receiver or of possession being
taken as aforesaid, as the case may be.
(4) Where the date referred to in sub- section (3) occurred before the
commencement of this Act, sub- sections (1) and (3) shall have effect with the
substitution, for references to the said provisions of Part VII, of references
to the provisions which, by virtue of sub- section (9) of section 530, are
deemed to remain in force in the case therein mentioned, and subsection (2)
shall not apply.
(5) Any payments made under this section shall be recouped, as far as may be,
out of the assets of the company available for payment of general creditors.
124. " Charge" to include mortgage in this Part. In this Part, the expression" charge" includes a mortgage.
125. Certain charges to be void against liquidator or creditors unless registered.
(1) Subject to the provisions of this Part, every charge created on or after
the 1st day of April, 1914 , by a company and being a charge to which this
section applies shall, so far as any security on the company' s property or
undertaking is conferred thereby, be void against the liquidator and any
creditor of the company, unless the prescribed particulars of the charge,
together with the instrument, if any, by which the charge is created or
evidenced, or a copy thereof verified in the prescribed manner, are filed with
the Registrar for registration in the manner required by this Act within 1
thirty] days after the date of its creation: 2 Provided that the Registrar may
allow the particulars and instrument or copy as aforesaid to be filed within
thirty days next following the expiry of the said period of thirty days on
payment of such additional fee not exceeding ten times the amount of fee
speci- fied in Schedule X as the Registrar may determine, if the company
satisfies the Registrar that it had sufficient cause for not filing the
particulars and instrument or copy within that period.]
(2) Nothing in subsection (1) shall prejudice any contract or obligation for
the repayment of the money secured by the charge.
(3) When a charge becomes void under this section, the money secured thereby
shall immediately become payable.
(4) This section applies to the following charges:-
(a) a charge for the purpose of securing any issue of deben- tures;
(b) a charge on uncalled share capital of the company;
(c) a charge on any immovable property, wherever situate, or any interest
therein;
(d) a charge on any book debts of the company;
(e) a charge, not being a pledge, on any movable property of the company;
(f) a floating charge on the undertaking or any property of the company
including stock- in- trade;
(g) a charge on calls made but not paid;
(h) a charge on a ship or any share in a ship;
1\. Subs. by Act 31 of 1965, s. 62 and Sch., for" twenty- one" (w. e. f. 15-
10- 1965 ).
2\. Subs. by Act 31 of 1988, s. 18 (w. e. f. 15- 6- 1988 ).
(i) a charge on goodwill, on a patent or a licence under a patent, on a trade
mark, or on a copyright or a licence under a copyright.
(5) In the case of a charge created out of India and comprising solely
property situate outside India, 1 thirty] days after the date on which the
instrument creating or evidencing the charge or a copy thereof could, in due
course of post and if despatched with due dili- gence, have been received in
India, shall be substituted for 1 thirty] days after the date of the creation
of the charge, as the time within which the particulars and instrument or copy
are to be filed with the Registrar.
(6) Where a charge is created in India but comprises property outside India,
the instrument creating or purporting to create the charge under this section
or a copy thereof verified in the prescribed manner, may be filed for
registration, notwithstanding that further proceedings may be necessary to
make the charge valid or effectual according to the law of the country in
which the property is situate.
(7) Where a negotiable instrument has been given to secure the payment of any
book debts of a company, the deposit of the instrument for the purpose of
securing an advance to the company shall not, for the purposes of this
section, be treated as a charge on those book debts.
(8) The holding of debentures entitling the holder to a charge on immovable
property shall not, for the purposes of this section, be deemed to be an
interest in immovable property.
126. Date of notice of charge. Where any charge on any property of a company required to be registered under section 125 has been so registered, any person acquiring such property or any part thereof, or any share or interest therein, shall be deemed to have notice of the charge as from the date of such registration.
127. Registration of charges on properties acquired subject to charge.
(1) Where a company acquires any property which is subject to a charge of any
such kind as would, if it had been created by the company after the
acquisition of the property, have been required to be registered under this
Part, the company shall cause the prescribed particulars of the charge,
together with a copy (certified in the prescribed manner to be a correct copy)
of the instrument, if any, by which the charge was created or is evidenced, to
be delivered to the Registrar for registration in the manner required by
1\. Subs. by Act 31 of 1965. s. 62 and Sch., for" twenty- one" (w. e. f. 15-
10- 1965 ),
this Act within 1 thirty] days after the date on which the acquisition is
completed: Provided that, if the property is situate, and the charge was
created, outside India, 1 thirty] days after the date on which a copy of the
instrument could, in due course of post and if despatched with due diligence,
have been received in India shall be substituted for 1 thirty] days after the
completion of the acquisition as the time within which the particulars and the
copy of the instrument are to be delivered to the Registrar.
(2) If default is made in complying with sub- section (1), the company, and
every officer of the company who is in default, shall be punishable with fine
which may extend to five hundred rupees.
128. Particulars in case of series of debentures entitling holders pari passu. Where a series of debentures containing, or giving by reference to any other instrument, any charge to the benefit of which the debenture holders of that series are entitled pari passu is created by a company, it shall, for the purposes of section 125, be sufficient, if there are filed with the Registrar, within 1 thirty] days after the execution of the deed containing the charge or, if there is no such deed, after the execution of any debentures of the series, the following particulars:-
(a) the total amount secured by the whole series;
(b) the dates of the resolutions authorising the issue of the series and the
date of the covering deed, if any, by which the security is created or
defined;
(c) a general description of the property charged; and
(d) the names of the trustees, if any, for the debenture holders; together
with the deed containing the charge, or a copy of the deed verified in the
prescribed manner, or if there is no such deed, one of the debentures of the
series: Provided that, where more than one issue is made of debentures in the
series, there shall be filed with the Registrar, for entry in the register,
particulars of the date and amount of each issue; but an omission to do this
shall not affect the validity of the debentures issued.
129. Particulars in case of commission, etc., on debentures. Where any commission, allowance or discount has been paid or made either directly or indirectly by a company to any person in consideration of his subscribing or agreeing to subscribe, whether
1\. Subs. by Act 31 of 1965, s. 62 and Sch., for" twenty- one" (w. e. f. 15-
10- 1965 ).
absolutely or conditionally, for any debentures of the company, or procuring
or agreeing to procure subscriptions, whether absolute or conditional, for any
such debentures, the particulars required to be filed for registration under
sections 125 and 128 shall include parti- culars as to the amount or rate per
cent. of the commission, discount or allowance so paid or made; but an
omission to do this shall not affect the validity of the debentures issued:
Provided that the deposit of any debentures as security for any debt of the
company shall not, for the purposes of this section, be treated as the issue
of the debentures at a discount.
130. Register of charges to be kept by Registrar 1
(1) The Registrar shall, in respect of each company, cause to be kept a
register containing the particulars of all the charges requiring registration
under this Part.
(1A) Every company shall forward to the Registrar for being entered in the
register kept under sub- section (1) the particulars of all the charges
requiring registration under this Part in such form and manner, and after
payment of, such fees as may be prescribed.
(1B) The particulars of the charges referred to in sub- section (1) shall
relate to,-
(a) in the case of a charge to the benefit of which the holders of a series of
debentures are entitled, such particu- lars as are specified in sections 128
and 129;
(b) in the case of any other charge,-
(i) if the charge is a charge created by the company, the date of its
creation, and if the charge was a charge existing on property acquired by the
company, the date of the acquisition of the property;
(ii) the amount secured by the charge;
(iii) short particulars of the property charged; and
(iv) the persons entitled to the charge.
(1C) The pages of the register shall be consecutively numbered and the
Registrar shall-
(a) cause to be kept in such register in the prescribed form, the documents of
charges filed in such form and manner as may be prescribed; and
(b) sign or initial every page of such register.
(2) After entering the particulars of all the charges required under sub-
section (1), the Registrar shall return the instrument, if any, or the
verified copy thereof, as the case may be, filed in accordance with the
provisions of this Part to the person filing it].
(3) The Registrar kept in pursuance of this section shall be open to
inspection by any person on payment of 1 such fee as may be prescribed] for
each inspection.
131. Index to register of charges. The Registrar shall keep a chronological index, in the prescribed form and with the prescribed particulars, of the charges registered with him in pursuance of this Part.
1\. Subs. by Act 31 of 1988, s. 19 (w. e. f. 17- 4- 1989 ).
132. Certificate of registration. The Registrar shall give a certificate under his hand of the registration of any charge registered in pursuance of this Part, stating the amount thereby secured; and the certificate shall be conclusive evidence that the requirements of this Part as to registration have been complied with.
133. Endorsement of certificate of registration on debenture or certificate of debenture stock.
(1) The company shall cause a copy of every certificate of registration given
under section 132, to be endorsed on every debenture or certificate of
debenture stock which is issued by the company and the payment of which is
secured by the charge so registered: Provided that nothing in this sub-
section shall be construed as requiring a company to cause a certificate of
registration of any charge so given to be endorsed on any debenture or
certificate of debenture stock issued by the company before the charge was
created.
(2) If any person knowingly delivers, or wilfully authorises or permits the
delivery of, any debenture or certificate of debenture stock which, under the
provisions of sub- section (1), is required to have endorsed on it a copy of a
certificate of registration without the copy being so endorsed upon it, he
shall, without prejudice to any other liability, be punishable with fine which
may extend to one thousand rupees.
134. Duty of company as regards registration and right of interested party.
(1) It shall be the duty of a company to file with the Registrar for
registration the particulars of every charge created by the company, and of
every issue of debentures of a series, requiring registration under this Part;
but registration of any such charge may also be effected on the application of
any person interested therein.
(2) Where registration is effected on the application of some person other
than the company, that person shall be entitled to recover from the company
the amount of any fees properly paid by him to the Registrar on the
registration.
135. Provisions of Part to apply to modification of charges. Whenever the terms or conditions, or the extent or operation, of any charge registered under this Part are or is modified, it shall be the duty of the company to send to the Registrar the particulars of such modification, and the provisions of this Part as to registration of a charge shall apply to such modification of the charge.
136. Copy of instrument creating charge to be kept by company at registered office. Every company shall cause a copy of every instrument creating any charge requiring registration under this Part to be kept at the registered office of the company: Provided that, in the case of a series of uniform debentures, a copy of one debenture of the series shall be sufficient.
137. Entry in register of charges of appointment of receiver or manager.
(1) If any person obtains an order for the appointment of a receiver of, or of
a person to manage, the property of a company, or if any person appoints such
receiver or person under any powers contained in any instrument, he shall,
within 1 thirty] days from the date of the passing of the order or of the
making of the appointment under the said powers, give notice of the fact to
the Registrar; and the Registrar shall, on payment of the prescribed fee,
enter the fact in the Register of charges.
(2) Where any person so appointed under the powers contained in any instrument
ceases to act as such, he shall, on so ceasing, give to the Registrar notice
to that effect; and the Registrar shall enter the notice in the Register of
charges.
(3) If any person makes default in complying with the require- ments of sub-
section (1) or (2), he shall be punishable with fine which may extend to fifty
rupees for every day during which the default continues.
138. Company to report satisfaction and procedure thereafter.
(1) The company shall give intimation to the Registrar of the payment or
satisfaction 2 in full], of any charge relating to the company and requiring
registration under this Part, within 3 thirty] days from the date of such
payment or satisfaction.
(2) The Registrar shall, on receipt of such intimation, cause a notice to be
sent to the holder of the charge calling upon him to show cause within a time
(not exceeding fourteen days) specified in such notice, why payment or
satisfaction should not be recorded as intimated to the Registrar.
(3) If no cause is shown, the Registrar shall order that a memo- randum of
satisfaction 4 shall be entered in the register of charges.
(4) If cause is shown, the Registrar shall record a note to that effect in the
register, and shall inform the company that he has done so.
(5) Nothing in this section shall be deemed to affect the power of the
Registrar to make an entry in the register of charges under section 139
otherwise than on receipt of an intimation from the company.
1\. Subs. by Act 31 of 1965, s. 62 and Sch., for" fifteen" (w. e. f. 15- 10-
1965 ).
2\. Subs. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 30, for" in whole or in part".
3\. Subs. by Act 31 of 1965, s. 62 and Sch., for" twenty- one" (w. e. f. 15-
10- 1965 ).
4\. The words" in whole or in part, as the case may be," omitted by Act 65 of
1960, S. 30.
139. Power of Registrar to make entries of satisfaction and release in absence of intimation from company. The Registrar may, on evidence being given to his satisfaction with respect to any registered charge,-
(a) that the debt for which the charge was given has been paid or satisfied in
whole or in part; or
(b) that part of the property or undertaking charged has been released from
the charge or has ceased to form part of the company' s property or
undertaking; enter in the register of charges a memorandum of satisfaction in
whole or in part, or of the fact that part of the property or undertaking has
been released from the charge or has ceased to form part of the company' s
property or undertaking, as the case may be, notwithstanding the fact that no
intimation has been received by him from the company.
140. Copy of memorandum of satisfaction to be furnished to company. Where the Registrar enters a memorandum of satisfaction in whole or in part, in pursuance of section 138 or 139, he shall furnish the company with a copy of the memorandum.
141. Rectification by Company Law Board of register of charges.
(1) 1 The 2 Company Law Board], on being satisfied--
(a) that the omission to file with the Registrar the particulars of any charge
created by a company or of any charge subject to which any property has been
acquired by the company or of any modification of any such charge or of any
issue of debentures of a series, or that the omission to register any charge
within the time required by this Part, or that the omission to give intimation
to the Registrar of the payment or satisfaction of a charge, within the time
required by this Part, or that the omission or misstatement of any particular
with respect to any such charge, modification or issue of debentures of a
series or with respect to any memorandum of satisfaction or other entry made
in pursuance of section 138 or 139, was accidental or due to inadvertence or
to some other sufficient cause or is not of a nature to prejudice the position
of creditors or shareholders of the company; or
1\. Subs. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 31, for sub- section (1).
2\. Subs. by Act 41 of 1974, s. 13, for" Court" (w. e. f. 1- 2- 1975 ).
(b) that on other grounds it is just and equitable to grant relief; may, on
the application of the company or any person interested and on such terms and
conditions as seem to the 1 Company Law Board] just and expedient, direct that
the time for the filing of the particulars or for the registration of the
charge or for the giving of intimation of payment or satisfaction shall be
extended or, as the case may require, that the omission or mis- statement
shall be rectified.]
(2) The 1 Company Law Board] may make such order as to, the costs of an
application under sub- section (1) as it thinks fit.
(3) Where the 1 Company Law Board] extends the time for the registration of a
charge, the order shall not prejudice any rights acquired in respect of the
property concerned before the charge is actually registered.
142. Penalties.
(1) If default is made in filing with the Registrar for registration the
particulars-
(a) of any charge created by the company;
(b) of the payment or satisfaction, 2 of a debt in respect of which a charge
has been registered under this Part; or
(c) of the issues of debentures of a series; requiring registration with the
Registrar under the provisions of this Part, then, unless the registration has
been effected on the applica- tion of some other person, the company, and
every officer of the company or other person who is in default, shall be
punishable with fine which may extend to five hundred rupees for every day
during which the default continues.
(2) Subject as aforesaid, if any company makes default in com- plying with any
of the other requirements of this Act as to the regis- tration with the
Registrar of any charge created by the company or of any fact connected
therewith, the company, and every officer of the company who is in default,
shall, without prejudice to any other liability, be punishable with fine which
may extend to one thousand rupees.
1\. Subs. by Act 41 of 1974, s. 13, for" Court" (w. e. f. 1- 2- 1975 ).
2\. The words" in whole or in part" omitted by Act 65 of 1960, s. 32.
143. Company' s register of charges.
(1) Every company shall keep at its registered office a register of charges
and enter therein all charges specifically affecting property of the company
and all floating charges on the undertaking or on any property of the company,
giving in each case-
(i) a short description of the property charged;
(ii) the amount of the charge; and
(iii) except in the case of securities to bearer, the names of the persons
entitled to the charge.
(2) If any officer of the company knowingly omits, or wilfully authorises or
permits the omission of, any entry required to be made in pursuance of sub-
section (1), he shall be punishable with fine which may extend to five hundred
rupees.
144. Right to inspect copies of instruments creating charges and company' s register of charges.
(1) The copies of instruments creating charges kept in pursuance of section
136, and the register of charges kept in pursuance of section 143, shall be
open during business hours (but subject to such reasonable restrictions as the
company in general meeting may impose, so that not less than two hours in each
day are allowed for inspection) to the inspection of any creditor or member of
the company without fee, at the registered office of the company.
(2) The register of charges kept in pursuance of section 143 shall also be
open, during business hours but subject to the reasonable restrictions
aforesaid, to the inspection of any other person on payment of a fee of 1 such
sum as may be prescribed] for each inspection, at the registered office of the
company.
(3) If inspection of the said copies or register is refused the company, and
every officer of the company who is in default, shall be punishable with fine
which may extend to fifty rupees and with a further fine which may extend to
twenty rupees for every day during which the refusal continues.
(4) The 2 Company Law Board] may also by order compel an immediate inspection
of the said copies or register.
145. Application of Part to charges requiring registration under it but not under previous law. In respect of 1 any charge created before, and remaining unsatisfied at, the commencement of this Act,] which, if this Act had been in force at the relevant time, would have had to be registered by the company in pursuance of this Part but which did not require registration under the Indian Companies Act, 1913 , (7 of 1913 ). and in respect of all matters relating to such charge, the provisions of this Part shall apply and have effect in all respects, as if the date of commencement of this Act had been substituted therein for the date of creation of the charge, or the date of completion of the acquisition of the property subject to the charge, as the case may be. Nothing contained in this section shall be deemed to affect the relative priorities as they existed immediately before the commence- ment of this Act, as between charges on the same property.
1\. Subs. by Act 31 of 1988, s. 67 (w. e. f. 15- 7- 1988 ).
2\. Subs. by s. 67, ibid. (w. e. f. 31- 5- 1991 ).
3\. Subs. by Act 65 of 1960, s, 33, for" any charge created before the
commencement of this Act".
PART VI MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION CHAP GENERAL PROVISIONS CHAPTER I.-
GENERAL PROVISIONS Registered Office and Name
146. Registered office of company.
(1) A company shall, as from the day on which it begins to carry on business,
or as from the 1 thirtieth] day after the date of its incorporation, whichever
is earlier, have a registered office to which all communications and notices
may be addressed.
(2) Notice of the situation of the registered office, and of every change
there in, shall be given within 2 thirty] days after the date of the
incorporation of the company or after the date of the change, as the case may
be, to the Registrar who shall record the same: Provided that except on the
authority of a special resolution passed by the company, the registered office
of the company shall not be removed-
(a) in the case of an existing company, outside the local limits of any city,
town or village where such office is situated at the commencement of this Act,
or where it may be situated later by virtue of a special resolution passed by
the company; and
(b) in the case of any other company, outside the local limits of any city,
town or village where such office is first situated, or where it may be
situated later by virtue of a special resolution passed by the company.
(3) The inclusion in the annual return of a company of a state- ment as to the
address of its registered office shall not be taken to satisfy the obligation
imposed by sub- section (2).
(4) If default is made in complying with the requirements of this section, the
company, and every officer of the company who is in default, shall be
punishable with fine which may extend to fifty rupees for every day during
which the default continues.
147. Publication of name by Company.
(1) Every company-
(a) shall paint or affix its name 3 and the ad- dress of its registered
office], and keep the same painted or affixed, on the outside of every office
or place in which its business is carried on, in a conspicuous position, in
letters easily
1\. Subs. by Act 31 of 1965, s. 62 and Sch., for twenty- eighth" (w. e. f. 15-
10- 1965 ).
2\. Subs. by s. 62 and Sch., ibid., for" twenty- eighth" (w. e. f. 15- 10-
1965 ).
3\. Ins. by Act 65 of 1960, s, 34.
legible; and if the characters employed therefore are not those of the
language, or of one of the languages, in general use in that locality, also in
the characters of that language or of one of those languages;
(b) shall have its name engraven in legible characters on its seal; and
(c) shall have its name 1 and the address of its registered office mentioned
in legible characters in all its business letters, in all its bill heads and
letter paper, and in all its notices, 2 and other official publications; 3 and
also have its name so mentioned in all bills of exchange], hundies, promissory
notes, endorsements, cheques and orders for money or goods purporting to be
signed by or on behalf of the company, and in all bills of parcels, invoices,
receipts and letters of credit of the company.
(2) If a company does not paint or affix its name 1 and the address of its
registered office], or keep the same painted or affixed in the manner directed
by clause (a) of sub- section (1), the company, and every officer of the
company who is in default, shall be punishable with fine which may extend to
fifty rupees for not so painting or affixing its name 1 and the address of its
registered office], and for every day during which its name 1 and the address
of its registered office], is not so kept painted or affixed.
(3) If a company fails to comply with clause (b) or clause (c) of sub- section
(1), the company shall be punishable with fine which may extend to five
hundred rupees.
(4) If an officer of a company or any person on its behalf-
(a) uses, or authorises the use of, any seal purporting to be a seal of the
company whereon its name is not engraven in the manner, aforesaid;
(b) issues, or authorises the issue of, any business letter, bill, head,
letter paper, notice 4 or other official publication of the company wherein 5
its name and the address of its registered office are] not mentioned in the
manner aforesaid;
1\. Ins. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 34.
2\. The words", advertisements" omitted by s. 34, ibid.
3\. Subs. by s. 34, ibid., for" and in all bills of exchange".
4\. The word", advertisement" omitted by s. 34, ibid.
5\. Subs. by s. 34, ibid., for" its name is".
(c) signs, or authorises to be signed, on behalf of the company, any bill of
exchange, hundi, promissory note, endorsement, cheque or order for money or
goods wherein its name is not mentioned in the manner aforesaid; or
(d) issues, or authorises the issue of, any bill of parcels, invoice, receipt
or letter of credit of the company, wherein its name is not mentioned in the
manner aforesaid; such officer or person shall be punishable with fine which
may extend to five hundred rupees, and shall further be personally liable to
the holder of the bill of exchange, hundi, promissory note, cheque, or order
for money or goods, for the amount thereof, unless it is duly paid by the
company.
148. Publication of authorised as well as subscribed and paid- up capital.
(1) Where any notice, advertisement or other official publi- cation, or any
business letter, bill head or letter paper, of a company contains a statement
of the amount of the authorised capital of the company, such notice,
advertisement or other official publication, or such letter, bill head or
letter paper, shall also contain a statement, in an equally prominent position
and in equally conspicuous characters, of the amount of the capital which has
been subscribed and the amount paid up.
(2) If default is made in complying with the requirements of subsection (1),
the company, and every officer of the company who is in default, shall be
punishable with fine which may extend to one thousand rupees. Restrictions on
Commencement of Business
149. Restrictions on commencement of business.
(1) Where a company having a share capital has issued a prospectus inviting
the public to subscribe for its shares, the company shall not commence any
business or exercise any borrowing powers, unless-
(a) shares held subject to the payment of the whole amount thereof in cash
have been allotted to an amount not less in the whole than the minimum
subscription;
(b) every director of the company has paid to the company, on each of the
shares taken or contracted to be taken by him and for which he is liable to
pay in cash, a proportion equal to the proportion payable on application and
allotment on the shares offered for public subscription;
(c) no money is, or may become, liable to be repaid to applicants for any
shares or debentures which have been offered for public subscription by reason
of any failure to apply for, or to obtain, permission for the shares or
debentures to be dealt in on any recognized stock exchange; and
(d) there has been filed with the Registrar a duly verified declaration by 1
one of the directors or the secretary or, where the company has not appointed
a secretary, a secretary in whole- time practice] in the prescribed form, that
clauses (a), (b) and (c) of this sub- section, have been complied with.
(2) Where a company having a share capital has not issued a prospectus
inviting the public to subscribe for its shares, the com- pany shall not
commence any business or exercise any borrowing powers, unless-
(a) there has been filed with the Registrar a statement in lieu of prospectus;
(b) every director of the company has paid to the company, on each of the
shares taken or contracted to be taken by him and for which he is liable to
pay in cash, a proportion equal to the proportion payable on application and
allotment on the shares payable in cash; and
(c) there has been filed with the Registrar a duly verified declaration by 1
one of the directors or the secretary or, where the company has not appointed
a secretary, a secretary in whole- time practice] in the prescribed form, that
clause (b) of this sub- section has been complied with.
(2A) 2 Without prejudice to the provisions of sub- section (1) and sub-
section (2) a company having a share capital, whether or not it has issued a
prospectus inviting the public to subscribe for its shares, shall not at any
time commence any business-
(a) if such company is a company in existence immediately before the
commencement of the Companies (Amendment) Act, 1965 (31 of 1965 ), in relation
to any of the objects stated in its memorandum in pursuance of clause (c) of
sub- section (1) of section 13;
(b) if such company is a company formed after such commencement, in relation
to any of the objects stated in its memorandum in pursuance of sub- clause
(ii) of clause (d) of sub- section (1) of the said section,
1\. Subs. by Act 31 of 1988, s. 20 (w. e. f. 15- 6- 1988 ).
2\. Ins. by Act 31 of 1965, s. 15 (w. e. f. 15- 10- 1965 ).
unless-
(i) the company has approved of the commencement of any such business by a
special resolution passed in that behalf by it in general meeting; and
(ii) there has been filed with the Registrar a duly verified declaration by 1
one of the directors or the secretary or, where the company has not appointed
a secretary, a secretary in whole- time practice], in the prescribed form,
that clause (i) or as the case may be, sub- section (2B) has been complied
with; and if the company commences any such business in contravention of this
sub- section, every person who is responsible for the contra- vention shall,
without prejudice to any other liability, be punishable with fine which may
extend to five hundred rupees for every day during which the contravention
continues. Explanation.- A company shall be deemed to commence any business
within the meaning of clause (a) if and only if it commences any new business
which is not germane to the business which it is carrying on at the
commencement of the Companies (Amendment) Act, 1965 (31 of 1965 ), in relation
to any of the objects referred to in the said clause.
(2B) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub- section (2A) where no such
special resolution as is referred to in that sub- section is passed but the
votes cast (whether on a show of hands or, as the case may be, on a poll) in
favour of the proposal to commence any business contained in the resolution
moved in that general meeting (including the casting vote, if any, of the
chairman) by members who, being entitled so to do, vote in person, or where
proxies are allowed, by proxy, exceed the votes, if any, cast against the
proposal by members so entitled and voting, the Central Government may on an
application made to it by the Board of directors in this behalf allow the
company to commence such business as if the proposal had been passed by a
special resolution by the company in general meeting.]
(3) The Registrar shall, on the filing of a duly verified declaration in
accordance with the provisions of sub- section (1) or sub- section (2), as the
case may be, and, in the case of a company which is required by sub- section
(2) to file a statement in lieu of prospectus, also of' such a statement,
certify that the company is entitled to commence business, and that
certificate shall be conclusive evidence that the company is so entitled.
(4) Any contract made by a company before the date at which it is entitled to
commence business shall be provisional only, and
1\. Subs. by Act 31 of 1988, s. 20 (w. e. f. 15- 6- 1988 ).
shall not be binding on the company until that date, and on that date it shall
become binding.
(5) Nothing in this section shall prevent the simultaneous offer for
subscription or allotment of any shares and debentures or the receipt of any
money payable on applications for debentures.
(6) If any company commences business or exercises borrowing powers in
contravention of this section, every person who is respon- sible for the
contravention shall, without prejudice to any other liability, be punishable
with fine which may extend to five hundred rupees for every day during which
the contravention continues.
(7) Nothing in this section shall apply to-
(a) a private company; or
(b) a company registered before the first day of April, 1914 , which has not
issued a prospectus inviting the public to subscribe for its shares. 1
Registers of members and debenture holders
150. Register of members.
(1) Every company shall keep in one or more books a register of its members,
and enter therein the following particulars:-
(a) the name and address, and the occupation, if any, of each member;
(b) in the case of a company having a share capital, the shares held by each
member, 2 and the amount paid or agreed to be considered as paid on those
shares;
(c) the date at which each person was entered in the register as a member; and
(d) the date at which any person ceased to be a member: Provided that where
the company has converted any of its shares into stock and given notice of the
conversion to the Registrar, the register shall show the amount of stock held
by each of the members concerned instead of the shares so converted which were
previously held by him.
(2) If default is made in complying with sub- section (1), the company, and
every officer of the company who is in default, shall be punishable with fine
which may extend to fifty rupees for every day during which the default
continues.
1\. Sub- section (8) omitted by Act 65 of 1960, s. 35.
2\. The words" distinguishing each share by its number," omitted by Act 22 of
1996, s. 31 and Sch. (w. e. f. 20- 9- 1995 ).
151. Index of members.
(1) Every company having more than fifty members shall, unless the register of
members is in such a form as in itself to constitute an index, keep an index
(which may be in the form of a card index) of the names of the members of the
company and shall, within fourteen days after the date on which any alteration
is made in the register of members, make the necessary alteration in the
index.
(2) The index shall, in respect of each member, contain a sufficient
indication to enable the entries relating to that member in the register to be
readily found.
(3) The index shall, at all times, be kept at the same place as the register
of members.
(4) If default is made in complying with sub- section (1), (2) or (3), the
company, and every officer of the company who is in default, shall be
punishable with fine which may extend to fifty rupees.
152. Register and index of debenture holders.
(1) Every company shall keep in one or more books a register of the holders of
its debentures and enter therein the following particulars, namely:-
(a) the name and address, and the occupation, if any, of each debenture
holder;
(b) the debentures held by each holder, 1 and the amount paid or agreed to be
considered as paid on those debentures;
(c) the date at which each person was entered in the register as a debenture
holder; and
(d) the date at which any person ceased to be a debenture holder.
(2) (a) Every company having more than fifty debenture holders shall, unless
the register of debenture holders is in such a form as in itself to constitute
an index, keep an index (which may be in the form of a card index) of the
names of the debenture holders of the company and shall, within fourteen days
after the date on which any alteration is made in the register of debenture
holders, make the necessary alteration in the index.
(b) The index shall, in respect of each debenture holder, contain a sufficient
indication to enable the entries relating to that holder in the register to be
readily found.
(3) If default is made in complying with sub- section (1) or (2), the company,
and every officer of the company who is in default, shall be punishable with
fine which may extend to fifty rupees.
1\. The words" distinguishing each debenture by its number," omi- tted by Act
22 of 1996, s. 31 and Sch. (w. e. f. 20- 9- 1996 ).
------------------------------- o--------------------------------------
(4) Sub- sections (1) to (3) shall not apply with respect to debentures which,
ex facie, are payable to the bearer thereof.
Register and index of beneficial owners.
152A. 1 Register and index of beneficial owners. The register and index of
beneficial owners maintainted by a depository under section 11 of the
Depositories Act, 1996 , shall be deemed to be an index of members and
register and index of debenture holders, as the case may be, for the purposes
of this Act.]
153. Trusts not to be entered on register. No notice of any trust, express, implied or constructive, shall be entered on the register of members or of debenture holders 2 .
Appointment of public trustee.
153A. 3 Appointment of public trustee. The Central Government may, by
notification in the Official Gazette, appoint a person as public trustee to
discharge the functions and to exercise the rights and powers conferred on him
by or under this Act.
Declaration as to shares and debentures held in trust.
153B. Declaration as to shares and debentures held in trust.
(1) Notwithstanding anything contained in section 153, where any shares in, or
debentures of, a company are held in trust by any person (hereinafter referred
to as the trustee), the trustee shall, within such time and in such form as
may be prescribed, make a declaration to the public trustee.
(2) A copy of the declaration made under sub- section (1) shall be sent by the
trustee to the company concerned, within twenty- one days, after the
declaration has been sent to the public trustee.
(3) (a) If a trustee fails to make a declaration as required by this section,
he shall be punishable with fine which may extend to five thousand rupees and
in the case of a continuing failure, with a further fine which may extend to
one hundred rupees for every day during which the failure continues.
(b) If a trustee makes in a declaration aforesaid any statement which is false
and which he knows or believes to be false or does not believe to be true, he
shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to two years
and also with fine.
(4) The provisions of this section and section 187B shall not apply in
relation to a trust-
(a) where the trust is not created by instrument in writing; or
(b) even if the trust is created by instrument in writing, 4 where the value
of the shares in, or debentures of, a company held in trust]-
(i) does not exceed one lakh of rupees, or
(ii) exceeds one lakh of rupees but does not exceed either five lakhs of
rupees or twenty- five per cent. of
1\. Ins. by Act 22 of 1996, s. 31 and Sch. (w. e. f. 20- 9- 1995 ).
2\. The words" or be receivable by the Registrar" omitted by Act 53 of 1963,
s. 6 (w. e. f. 1- 1- 1964 ).
3\. Ins. by s. 7, ibid. (w. e. f. 1- 1- 1964 ).
4\. Subs. by Act 31 of 1965, s. 16, for certain words (w. e. f. 15- 10- 1965
).
the paid- up share capital of the company, whichever is less.] 1 Explanation.-
The expression" the value of the shares in, or debentures of, a company" in
clause (b) means,-
(i) in the case of shares or debentures acquired by way of allotment or
transfer for consideration, the cost of acqui- sition thereof, and
(ii) in any other case, the paid- up value of the shares or debentures.]
154. Power to close register of members of debenture holders.
(1) A company may, after giving not less than seven days' previous notice by
advertisement in some newspaper circulating in the district in which the
registered office of the company is situate, close the register of members or
the register of debenture holders for any period or periods not exceeding in
the aggregate forty- five days in each year, but not exceeding thirty days at
any one time.
(2) If the register of members or of debenture holders is closed without
giving the notice provided in sub- section (1), or after giving shorter notice
than that so provided, or for a continuous or an aggre- gate period in excess
of the limits specified in that sub- section, the company, and every officer
of the company who is in default, shall be punishable with fine which may
extend to five hundred rupees for every day during which the register is so
closed. 2
1\. Ins. by Act 31 of 1965, s. 16 (w. e. f. 15- 10- 1965 ).
2\. Omitted by Act 31 of 1988, s. 21 (w. e. f. 31- 5- 1991 ).
Foreign registers of members or debenture holders
157. Power for company to keep foreign register of members of debenture holders.
(1) A company which has a share capital or which has issued debentures may, if
so authorised by its articles, keep in any State or country outside India a
branch register of members or debenture holders resident in that State or
country (in this Act called a" foreign register").
(2) The company shall, within 1 thirty days] from the date of the opening of
any foreign register, file with the Registrar notice of the situation of the
office where such register is kept; and in the event of any change in the
situation of such office or of its discontinuance, shall, within 1 thirty
days] from the date of such change or discontinuance, as the case may be, file
notice with the Registrar of such change or discontinuance.
(3) If default is made in complying with the requirements of sub- section (2),
the company, and every officer of the company who is in default, shall be
punishable with fine which may extend to fifty rupees for every day during
which the default continues.
158. Provisions as to foreign registers.
(1) A foreign register shall be deemed to be part of the company' s register
(in this section called the" principal register") of members or of debenture
holders, as the case may be.
(2) A foreign register shall be kept, shall be open to inspection and may be
closed, and extracts may be taken therefrom and copies thereof may be
required, in the same manner, mutatis mutandis, as is applicable to the
principal register under this Act, except that the advertisement before
closing the register shall be inserted in some newspaper circulating in the
district wherein the foreign register is kept.
(3) (a) The Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette,
direct that the provisions of clause (b) shall apply, or cease to apply, to
foreign registers kept in any State or country outside India.
(b) If a foreign register is kept by a company in any State or country to
which a direction under clause (a) applies for the time being, the decision of
any competent Court in that State or country in regard to- the rectification
of the register shall have the same force and effect as if it were the
decision of a competent Court in India.
1\. Subs. by Act 31 of 1965, s. 62 and Sch., for" one month" (w. e. f. 15- 10-
1965 ).
(4) The company shall-
(a) transmit to its registered office in India a copy of every entry in any
foreign register as soon as may be after the entry is made; and
(b) keep at such office a duplicate of every foreign register duly entered up
from time to time.
(5) Every such duplicate shall, for all the purposes of this Act, be deemed to
be part of the principal register.
(6) Subject to the provisions of this section with respect to duplicate
registers, the shares or debentures registered in any foreign register shall
be distinguished from the shares or debentures registered in the principal
register and in every other foreign register and no transaction with respect
to any shares or debentures registered in a foreign register shall, during the
continuance of that registration, be registered in any other register.
(7) The company may discontinue the keeping of any foreign register; and
thereupon all entries in that register shall be transferred to some other
foreign register kept by the company in the same part of the world or to the
principal register.
(8) Subject to the provisions of this Act, a company may, by its articles,
make such regulations as it thinks fit in regard to its foreign registers.
(9) If default is made in complying with sub- section (4), the company, and
every officer of the company who is in default shall be punishable with fine
which may extend to fifty rupees. Annual Returns
159. Annual return to be made by company having a share capital.
(1) Every company having a share capital shall, within 1 sixty] days from the
day on which each of the annual general meetings referred to in section 166 is
held, prepare and file with the Registrar a return containing the particulars
specified in Part I of Schedule V, as they stood on that day, regarding-
(a) its registered office,
(b) the register of its members,
(c) the register of its debenture holders,
(d) its shares and debentures,
(e) its indebtedness,
1\. Subs. by Act 31 of 1965, s. 62 and Sch., for" forty- two" (w. e. f. 15-
10- 1965 ).
(f) its members and debenture holders, past and present, and
(g) its directors, managing directors, managing agents, secretaries and
treasurers, 1 managers and secretaries], past and present: 2 Provided that if
3 any of the five] immediately preceding returns has given as at the date of
the annual general meeting with reference to which it was submitted, the full
particulars required as to past and present members and the shares held and
transferred by them, the return in question may contain only such of the
particulars as relate to persons ceasing to be or becoming members since that
date and to shares transferred since that date or to changes as compared with
that date in the number of shares held by a member. Explanation.- Any
reference in this section or in section 160 or 161 or in any other section or
in Schedule V to the day on which an annual general meeting is held or to the
date of the annual general meeting shall, where the annual general meeting for
any year has not been held, be construed as a reference to the latest day on
or before which that meeting should have been held in accordance with the
provisions of this Act.]
(2) The said return shall be in the Form set out in Part II of Schedule V or
as near thereto as circumstances admit 2 and where the return is filed even
though the annual general meeting has not been held on or before the latest
day by which it should have been held in with the return a statement
specifying the reasons for not holding the annual general meeting]:
(c) the conditions subject to which any manufacturing into stock and given
notice of the conversion to the Registrar. the list referred to in paragraph 5
of Part I of Schedule V shall state the amount of stock held by each of the
members concerned instead of the shares so converted previously held by him.
160. Annual return to be made by company not having a share capital.
(1) Every company not having a share capital shall, within under section 65.
Meetings referred to in section 166 is held, prepare and file with the
1\. Subs. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 38, for" and managers".
2\. Ins. by s. 38, ibid.
3\. Subs. by Act 31 of 1988, s. 22 (w. e. f. 15- 6- 1988 ).
4\. Subs. by Act 31 of 1965, s. 62 and ch., for" forty- two" (w. e. f. 15- 10-
1965 ).
Registrar a return stating the following particulars as they stood on that
day:-
(a) the address of the registered office of the company;
(aa) 1 the names of members and the respective dates on which they became
members and the names of persons who ceased to be members since the date of
the annual general meeting of the immediately preceding year, and the dates on
which they so ceased;]
(b) all such particulars with respect to the persons who, at the date of the
return, were the directors of the company, its managing agent, its secretaries
and treasurers, 2 its manager and its secretary] as are set out in section
303.
(2) There shall be annexed to the return a statement containing particulars of
the total amount of the indebtedness of the company as on the day aforesaid in
respect of all charges which are or were required to be registered with the
Registrar under this Act or under any previous companies law, or which would
have been required to be registered under this Act if they had been created
after the com- mencement of this Act.
161. Further provisions regarding annual return and certificate to be annexed thereto.
(1) The copy of the annual return filed with the Registrar under section 159
or 160, as the case may be, shall be signed both by a director and by the 3 ]
manager or secretary of the company, or where there is no managing agent,
secretaries and treasurers, manager or secretary, by two directors of the
company, one of whom shall be the managing director where there is one: 4
Provided that where the annual return is filed by a company whose shares are
listed on a recognised stock exchange, the copy of such annual return shall
also be signed by a secretary in whole- time practice].
(2) There shall also be filed with the Registrar along with the return a
certificate signed by 5 the signatories] of the return, stating--
(a) that the return states the facts as they stood on the day of the annual
general meeting aforesaid, correctly and completely; 6
(aa) 7 that since the date of the last annual return the transfer of all
shares and debentures and the issue of all further certificates of shares and
debentures have been appropriately recorded in the books maintained for the
pur- pose; and]
1\. Ins by Act 65 of 1960, s. 39.
2\. Subs by s. 39, ibid., for" and its manager".
3\. The words" managing agent, secretaries and treasurers," omitted by Act 31
of 1988, S. 23 (w. e. f. 15- 6- 1988 ).
4\. Ins. by s. 23, ibid. (w. e. f. 15- 6- 1988 ).
5\. Subs. by s. 23, ibid. (w. e. f. 15- 6- 1988 ).
6\. The word" and" omitted by Act 65 of 1960, s. 40,
7\. Ins. by s. 40, ibid.
(b) in the case of a private company also, (i) that the company has not, since
the date of the annual general meeting with reference to which the last return
was submitted, or in the case of a first return, since the date of the in-
corporation of the company, issued any invitation to the public to subscribe
for any shares or debentures of the company, and (ii) that, where the annual
return discloses the fact that the number of members of the company exceeds
fifty, the excess consists wholly of persons who under sub- clause (b) of
clause (iii) of sub- section. (1) of section 3 are not to be included in
reckoning the number of fifty.
162. Penalty and interpretation.
(1) If a company fails to comply with any of the provisions contained in
section 159, 160 or 161, the company, and every officer of the company who is
in default, shall be punishable with fine which may extend to fifty rupees for
every day during which the default continues.
(2) For the purposes of this section and sections 159, 160, and 161, the
expressions" officer" and" director" shall include any person in accordance
with whose directions or instructions the Board of directors of the Company is
accustomed to act. General provisions regarding registers and returns
163. Place of keeping, and inspection of, registers and returns.
(1) The register of members commencing from the date of the registration of
the company, the index of members, the register and index of debenture
holders, and copies of all annual returns prepared under sections 159 and 160,
together with the copies of certificates and documents required to be annexed
thereto under sections 160 and 161, shall be kept at the registered office of
the company: 1 Provided that such registers, indexes, returns and copies of
certificates and documents or any or more of them may, instead of being kept
at the registered office of the company, be kept at any other place within the
city, town or village in which the registered office is situate, if--
(i) such other place has been approved for this purpose by a special
resolution passed by the company in general meeting, 2 and] 3 .
1\. Ins. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 41.
2\. Ins. by Act 31 of 1965, s. 17 (w. e. f. 15- 10- 1965 ).
3\. Cl. (ii) omitted by s. 17, ibid. (w. e. f. 15- 10- 1965 ).
(iii) the Registrar has been given in advance a copy of the proposed special
resolution.]
(1A) 1 Notwithstanding anything contained in sub- section (1), the Central
Government may make rules for the preservation and for the disposal, whether
by destruction or otherwise, of the registers, indexes,
1\. Ins. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 41.
returns, and copies of certificates and other documents referred to in sub-
section (1).]
(2) The registers, indexes, returns, and copies of certificates and other
documents referred to in sub- section (1) shall, except when the register of
members or debenture holders is closed under the pro- visions of this Act, be
open during business hours (subject to such reasonable restrictions, as the
company may impose, so that not less than two hours in each day are allowed
for inspection) to the inspec- tion--
(a) of any member or debenture holder, without fee; and
(b) of any other person, on payment of 1 such sum as may be prescribed] each
inspection.
(3) Any such member, debenture holder or other person may-
(a) make extracts from any register, index, or copy referred to in sub-
section (1) without fee or additional fee, as the case may be; or
(b) require a copy of any such register, index or copy or of any part thereof,
on payment of 1 such sum as may be prescribed] for every one hundred words or
fractional part thereof required to be copied.
(4) The company shall cause any copy required by any person under clause (b)
of sub- section (3) to be sent to that person within a period of ten days,
exclusive of non- working days, commencing on the day next after the day on
which the requirement is received by the company.
(5) If any inspection, or the making of any extract required under this
section, is refused, or if any copy required under this section is not sent
within the period specified in sub- section (4), the company, and every
officer of the company who is in default, shall be punishable, in respect of
each offence, with fine which may extend to fifty rupees for every day during
which the refusal of default continues.
(6) The 2 company Law Board] may also by order, compel an immediate inspection
of the document, or direct that the extract required shall forthwith be.
allowed to be taken by the person requiring it, or that the copy required
shall forthwith be sent to the person requiring it, as the case may be.
164. Registers, etc., to be evidence. The register of members, the register of debenture holders, and the annual returns, certificates and statements referred to in
1\. Subs. by Act 31 of 1988, s. 67 (w. e. f. 15- 7- 1988 ).
2\. Subs. by s. 67, ibid. (w. e. f. 31- 5- 1991 ).
sections 159, 160 and 161 shall be prima facie evidence of any matters
directed or authorised to be inserted therein by this Act. Meetings and
Proceedings
165. Statutory meeting and statutory report of company.
(1) Every company limited by shares, and every company limited by guarantee
and having a share capital, shall, within a period of not less than one month
nor more than six months from the date at which the company is entitled to
commence business, hold a general meeting of the members of the company, which
shall be called" the statutory meeting".
(2) The Board of directors shall, at least twenty- one days before the day on
which the meeting is held, forward a report (in this Act referred to as" the
statutory report") to every member of the company: Provided that if the
statutory report is forwarded later than is required above, it shall,
notwithstanding that fact, be deemed to have been duly forwarded if it is so
agreed to by all the members entitled to attend and vote at the meeting.
(3) The statutory report shall set out-
(a) the total number of shares allotted, distinguishing shares allotted as
fully or partly paid up otherwise than in cash, and stating in the case of
shares partly paid up, the extent to which they are so paid up, and in either
case, the consideration for which they have been allotted;
(b) the total amount of cash received by the company in respect of all the
shares allotted, distinguished as aforesaid;
(c) an abstract of the receipts of the company and of the payments made there
out, up to a date within seven days of the date of the report, exhibiting
under distinctive headings the receipts of the company from shares and
debentures and other sources, the payments made there out, and particulars
concerning the balance remaining in hand, and an account or estimate of the
preliminary expenses of the company, showing separately any commission or
discount paid or to be paid on the issue or sale of shares or debentures;
(d) the names, addresses and occupations of the directors of the company and
of its auditors; and also, if there be any, of its managing agent, secretaries
and treasurers, manager, and secretary; and the changes, if any which
have occurred in such names, addresses and occupations since the date of the
incorporation of the company;
(e) the particulars of any contract which, or the modification or the proposed
modification of which, is to submitted to the meeting for its approval,
together in the latter case with the particulars of the modification or
proposed modification;
(f) the extent, if any, to which each under- writing contract, if any, has not
been carried out, and the reasons therefore;
(g) the arrears, if any, due on calls from every director; from the managing
agent, every partner of the managing agent, every firm in which the managing
agent is a partner, and where the managing agent is a private company, every
director thereof; from the secretaries and treasurers; where they are a firm,
from every partner therein; and where they are a private company, from every
director thereof; and from the manager, and
(h) the particulars of any commission or brokerage paid or to be paid in
connection with the issue or sale of shares or debentures to any director; to
the managing agent, any partner of the managing agent, any firm in which the
managing agent is a partner; and where the managing agent is a private
company, to any director thereof; to the secretaries and treasurers; where
they are a firm, to any partner therein; and where they are a private company,
to any director thereof; or to the manager.
(4) The statutory report shall be certified as correct by not less than two
directors of the company one of whom shall be a managing director, where there
is one. After the statutory report has been certified as aforesaid, the
auditors of the company shall, in so far as the report relates to the shares
allotted by the company, the cash received in respect of such shares and the
receipts and payments of the company 1 , certify it as correct.
(5) The Board shall cause a copy of the statutory report certified as is
required by this section to be delivered to the Registrar for registration
forthwith, after copies thereof have been sent to the members of the company.
1\. The words" on capital account" omitted by Act 65 of 1960, s. 42.
(6) The Board shall cause a list showing the names, addresses and occupations
of the members of the company, and the number of shares held by them
respectively, to be produced at the commencement of the statutory meeting, and
to remain open and accessible to any member of the company during the
continuance of the meeting.
(7) The members of the company present at the meeting shall be at liberty to
discuss any matter relating to the formation of the company or arising out of
the statutory report, whether previous notice has been given or not; but no
resolution may be passed of which notice has not been given in accordance with
the provisions of this Act.
(8) The meeting may adjourn from time to time, and at any adjourned meeting
any resolution of which notice has been given in accordance with the
provisions of this Act, whether before or after the former meeting, may be
passed; and the adjourned meeting shall have the same powers as an original
meeting.
(9) If default is made in complying with the provisions of this section, every
director or other officer of the company who is in default shall be punishable
with fine which may extend to five hundred rupees.
(10) This section shall not apply to a private company.
166. Annual general meeting. 1
(1) Every company shall in each year hold in addition to any other meetings a
general meeting as its annual general meeting and shall specify the meeting as
such in the notices calling it; and not more than fifteen months shall elapse
between the date of one annual general meeting of a company and that of the
next: Provided that a company may hold its first annual general meeting within
a period of not more than eighteen months from the date of its incorporation;
and if such general meeting is held within that period, it shall not be
necessary for the company to hold any annual general meeting in the year of
its incorporation or in the following year: Provided further that the
Registrar may, for any special reason, extend the time within which any annual
general meeting (not being the first annual general meeting) shall be held, by
a period not exceeding three months.]
(2) Every annual general meeting shall be called for a time during business
hours, on a day that is not a public holiday, and shall be
1\. Subs. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 43, for sub- section (1).
held either at the registered office of the company or at some other place
within the city, town or village in which the registered office of the company
is situate 1 : 2 Provided that the Central Government may exempt any class of
companies from the provisions of this sub- section subject to such conditions
as it may impose: Provided further that-
(a) a public company or a private company which is a subsi- diary of a public
company, may by its articles fix the time for its annual general meetings and
may also by a resolution passed in one annual general meeting fix the time for
its subsequent annual general meetings; and
(b) a private company which is not a subsidiary of a public company, may in
like manner and also by a resolution agreed to by all the members thereof, fix
the times as well at the place for its annual general meeting.]
167. Power of company Law Board to call annual general meeting.
(1) If default is made in holding an annual general meeting in accordance with
section 166, the 3 Company Law Board] may, not with standing anything in this
Act or in the articles of the company, the application of any member of the
company, call, or direct the calling of, a general meeting of the company and
give such ancillary or consequential directions as the 3 Company Law Board]
thinks expedient in relation to the calling, holding and conducting of the
meeting. Explanation.- The directions that may be given under this sub-
section may include a direction that one member of the company present in
person or by proxy shall be deemed to constitute a meeting.
(2) A general meeting held in pursuance of sub- section (1) shall, subject to
any directions of the 3 Company Law Board] be deemed to be an annual general
meeting of the company.
168. Penalty for default in complying with section 166 or 167. If default is made in holding a meeting of the company in accordance with section 166, or in complying with any directions of the Central Government under sub- section
(1) of section 167, the company, and every officer of the company who is in
default, shall be punishable with fine which may extend to five thousand
rupees 4 and
1\. The words" and the notices calling the meeting shall specify it at the
annual general meeting" omitted by Act 65 of 1960, s. 43.
2\. Ins. by s. 43, ibid.
3\. Subs. by Act 31 of 1988, s. 67 (w. e. f. 31- 5- 1991 ).
4\. Ins. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 44.
in the case of a continuing default, with a further fine which may extend to
two hundred and fifty rupees for every day after the first during which such
default continues].
169. Calling of extraordinary general meeting on requisition.
(1) The Board of directors of a company shall, on the requisition of such
number of members of the company as is specified in sub- section (4),
forthwith proceed duly to call an extraordinary general meeting of the
company.
(2) The requisition shall set out the matters for the consideration of which
the meeting is to be called, shall be signed by the requisitionists, and shall
be deposited at the registered office of the company.
(3) The requisition may consist of several documents in like form, each signed
by one or more requisitionists.
(4) The number of members entitled to requisition a meeting in regard to any
matter shall be-
(a) in the case of a company having a share capital, such number of them as
hold at the date of the deposit of the requisition, not less than one- tenth
of such of the paid- up capital of the company as at that date carries the
right of voting in regard to that matter;
(b) in the case of a company not having a share capital, such number of them
as have at the date of deposit of the requisition not less than one- tenth of
the total voting power of all the members having at the said date a right to
vote in regard to that matter.
(5) Where two or more distinct matters are specified in the requisition, the
provisions of sub- section (4) shall apply separately in regard to each such
matter; and the requisition shall accordingly be valid only in respect of
those matters in regard to which the condition specified in that sub- section
is fulfilled.
(6) If the Board does not, within twenty- one days from the date of the
deposit of a valid requisition in regard to any matters, proceed duly to call
a meeting for the consideration of those matters on a day not later than
forty- five days from the date of the deposit of the requisition, the meeting
may be called-
(a) by the requisitionists themselves,
(b) in the case of a company having a share capital, by such of the
requisionists as represent either a majority in value of the paid- up share
capital held by all of them or
not less than one- tenth of such of the paid- up share capital of the company
as is referred to in clause (a) of sub- section (4), whichever is less; or
(c) in the case of a company not having a share capital, by such of the
requisitionists as represent not less than one- tenth of the total voting
power of all the members of the company referred to in clause (b) of sub-
section (4). Explanation.- For the purposes of this sub- section, the Board
shall, in the case of a meeting at which a resolution is to be proposed as a
special resolution, be deemed not to have duly convened the meeting if they do
not give such notice thereof as is required by sub- section (2) of section
189.
(7) A meeting called under sub- section (6) by the requisitionists or any of
them-
(a) shall be called in the same manner, as nearly as possible, as that in
which meetings are to be called by the Board; but
(b) shall not be held after the expiration of three months from the date of
the deposit of the requisition. Explanation.- Nothing in clause (b) shall be
deemed to prevent a meeting duly commenced before the expiry of the period of
three months, aforesaid, from adjourning to some day after the expiry of that
period.
(8) Where two or more persons hold any shares or interest in a company
jointly, a requisition, or a notice calling a meeting, signed by one or some
only of them shall, for the purposes of this section, have the same force and
effect as if it had been signed by all of them.
(9) Any reasonable expenses incurred by the requisitionists by reason of the
failure of the Board duly to call a meeting shall be repaid to the
requisitionists by the company; and any sum so repaid shall be retained by the
company out of any sums due or to become due from the company by way of fees
or other remuneration for their services to such of the directors as were in
default.
170. Section 171 to 186 to apply to meetings.
(1) The provisions of sections 171 to 186-
(i) shall, notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the articles of the
company, apply with respect to general meetings of a public company, and of a
private company which is a subsidiary of a public company; and
(ii) shall. unless otherwise specified therein or unless the articles of the
company otherwise provide, apply with respect to general meetings of a private
company which is not a subsidiary of a public company.
(2) (a) Section 176, with such adaptations and modifications, if any, as may
be prescribed, shall apply with respect to meetings of any class of members,
or of debenture holders or any class of debenture holders, of a company, in
like manner as it applies with respect to general meetings of the company.
(b) Unless the articles of the company or a contract binding on the persons
concerned otherwise provide, sections 171 to 175 and sections 177 to 186 with
such adaptations and modifications, if any, as may be prescribed, shall apply
with respect to meetings of any class of members, or of debenture holders or
any class of debenture holders, of a company, in like manner as they apply
with respect to general meetings of the company.
171. Length of notice for calling meeting.
(1) A general meeting of a company may be called by giving not less than
twenty- one days' notice in writing.
(2) A general meeting may be called after giving shorter notice than that
specified in sub- section (1), if consent is accorded thereto-
(i) in the case of an annual general meeting, by all the members entitled to
vote thereat; and
(ii) in the case of any other meeting, by members of the company (a) holding,
if the company has a share capital, not less than 95 per cent. of such part of
the paid- up share capital of the company as gives a right to vote at the
meeting, or (b) having, if the company has no share capital, not less than 95
per cent. of the total voting power exercisable at that meeting: Provided that
where any members of a company are entitled to vote only on some resolution or
resolutions to be moved at a meeting and not on the others, those members
shall be taken into account for the purposes of this sub- section in respect
of the former resolution or resolutions and not in respect of the latter.
172. Contents and manner of service of notice and persons on whom it is to be served.
(1) Every notice of a meeting of a company shall specify the place and the day
and hour of the meeting, and shall contain a statement of the business to be
transacted thereat.
(2) Notice of every meeting of the company shall be given-
(i) to every member of the company, in any manner authorised by sub- sections
(1) to (4) of section 53;
(ii) to the persons entitled to a share in consequence of the death or
insolvency of a member, by sending it through the post in a prepaid letter
addressed to them by name, or by the title of representatives of the deceased,
or assignees of the insolvent, or by any like description, at the address, if
any, in India supplied for the purpose by the persons claiming to be so
entitled, or until such an address has been so supplied, by giving the notice
in any manner in which it might have been given if the death or insolvency had
not occurred; and
(iii) to the auditor or auditors for the time being of the company, in any
manner authorised by section 53 in the case of any member or members of the
company: 1 Provided that where the notice of a meeting is given by advertising
the same in a newspaper circulating in the neighbourhood of the registered
office of the company under sub- section (3) of section 53, the statement of
material facts referred to in section 173 need not be annexed to the notice as
required by that section but it shall be mentioned in the advertisement that
the statement has been forwarded to the members of the company.]
(3) The accidental omission to give notice to, or the non- receipt of notice
by, any member or other person to whom it should be given shall not invalidate
the proceedings at the meeting.
173. Explanatory statement to be annexed to notice.
(1) For the purposes of this section,--
(a) in the case of an annual general meeting, all business to be transacted at
the meeting shall be deemed special, with the exception of business relating
to (i) the consideration of the accounts, balance sheet and the reports of the
Board of directors and auditors, (ii) the declaration of a dividend, (iii) the
appointment of directors in the place of those retiring, and (iv) the
appointment of, and the fixing of the remuneration of, the auditors; and
(b) in the case of any other meeting, all business shall be deemed special.
1\. Ins. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 45.
(2) Where any items of business to be transacted at the meeting are deemed to
be special as aforesaid, there shall be annexed to the notice of the meeting a
statement setting out all material facts concerning each such item of
business, including in particular 1 the nature of the concern or interest], if
any, therein, of every director, the managing agent, if any, the secretaries
and treasurers, if any, and the manager, if any: 2 Provided that where any
item of special business as aforesaid to be transacted at a meeting of the
company relates to, or affects, any other company, the extent of shareholding
interest in that other company of every director, the managing agent, if any,
the secretaries and treasurers, if any, and the manager, if any, of the first-
mentioned company shall also be set out in the statement if the extent of such
shareholding interest is not less than twenty per cent. of the paid- up share
capital of that other company.]
(3) Where any item of business consists of the according of approval to any
document by the meeting, the time and place where the document can be
inspected shall be specified in the statement aforesaid.
174. Quorum for meeting.
(1) Unless the articles of the company provide for a larger number, five
members personally present in the case of 3 public company (other than a
public company which has become such by virtue of section 43A), and two
members personally present in the case of any other company,] shall be the
quorum for a meeting of the company.
(2) Unless the articles of the company otherwise provide, the provisions of
sub- sections (3), (4) and (5) shall apply with respect to the meetings of a
public or private company.
(3) If within half an hour from the time appointed for holding a meeting of
the company, a quorum is not present, the meeting, if called upon the
requisition of members, shall stand dissolved.
(4) In any other case, the meeting shall stand adjourned to the same day in
the next week, at the same time and place, or to such other day and at such
other time and place as the Board may determine.
(5) If at the adjourned meeting also, a quorum is not present within half an
hour from the time appointed for holding the meeting the members present shall
be a quorum.
1\. Subs. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 46, for" the nature and extent of the
interest".
2\. Ins. by s. 46, ibid.
3\. Subs. by Act 31 of 1965, s. 18, for certain words (w. e. f. 15- 10- 1965
).
175. Chairman of meeting.
(1) Unless the articles of the company otherwise provide, the members
personally present at the meeting shall elect one of themselves to be the
chairman thereof on a show of hands.
(2) If a poll is demanded on the election of the chairman, it shall be taken
forthwith in accordance with the provisions of this Act, the chairman elected
on a show of hands exercising all the powers of the chairman under the said
provisions.
(3) If some other person is elected chairman as a result of the poll, he shall
be chairman for the rest of the meeting.
176. Proxies.
(1) Any member of a company entitled to attend and vote at a meeting of the
company shall be entitled to appoint another person (whether a member or not)
as his proxy to attend and vote instead of himself; but a proxy so appointed
shall not have any right to speak at the meeting: Provided that, unless the
articles otherwise provide-
(a) this sub- section shall not apply in the case of a company not having a
share capital;
(b) a member of a private company shall not be entitled to appoint more than
one proxy to attend on the same occasion; and
(c) a proxy shall not be entitled to vote except on a poll.
(2) In every notice calling a meeting of a company which has a share capital,
or the articles of which provide for voting by proxy at the meeting, there
shall appear with reasonable prominence a statement that a member entitled to
attend and vote is entitled to appoint a proxy, or, where that is allowed, one
or more proxies, to attend and vote instead of himself, and that a proxy need
not be a member. If default is made in complying with this sub- section as
respects any meeting, every officer of the company who is in default shall be
punishable with fine which may extend to five hundred rupees.
(3) 1 Any provision contained in the articles of a public company, or of a
private company which is a subsidiary of a public company, which specifies or
requires a longer period than forty- eight hours before a meeting of the
company, for depositing with the company or any other person any instrument
appointing a proxy or any other document necessary to, show the validity or
otherwise relating to
1\. Subs. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 47, for sub- section (3).
the appointment of a proxy in order that the appointment may be effective at
such meeting, shall have effect as if a period of forty- eight hours had been
specified in or required by such provision for such deposit.]
(4) If for the purpose of any meeting of a company, invitations to appoint as
proxy a person or one of a number of persons specified in the invitations- are
issued at the company' s expense to any member entitled to have a notice of
the meeting sent to him and to vote thereat by proxy, every officer of the
company who knowingly issues the invitations as aforesaid or wilfully
authorises or permits their issue shall be punishable with fine which may
extend to one thousand rupees: Provided that an officer shall not be
punishable under this sub- section by reason only of the issue to a member at
his request in writing of a form of appointment naming the proxy, or of a list
of persons willing to act- as proxies, if the form or list is available on
request in writing to every member entitled to vote at the meeting by proxy.
(5) The instrument appointing a proxy shall-
(a) be in writing; and
(b) be signed by the appointer or his attorney duly authorised in writing or,
if the appointer is a body corporate, be under its seal or be signed by an
officer or an attorney duly authorised by it.
(6) An instrument appointing a proxy, if in any of the forms set out in
Schedule IX, shall not be questioned on the ground that it fails to comply
with any special requirements specified for such instrument by the articles.
(7) Every member entitled to vote at a meeting of the company, or on any
resolution to be moved thereat, shall be entitled during the period beginning
twenty- four hours before the time fixed for the commencement of the meeting
and ending with the conclusion of the meeting, to inspect the proxies lodged,
at any time during the business hours of the company, provided not less than
three days' notice in writing of the intention so to inspect is given to the
company.
177. Voting to be by show of hands in first instance. At any general meeting, a resolution put to the vote of the meeting shall, unless a poll is demanded under section 179, be decided on a show of hands.
178. Chairman' s declaration of result of voting by show of hands to be conclusive. A declaration by the chairman in pursuance of section 177 that on a show of hands, a resolution has or has not been carried, or has or has not been carried either unanimously or by a particular majority, and an entry to that effect in the books containing the minutes of the proceedings of the company, shall be conclusive evidence of the fact, without proof of the number or proportion of the votes cast in favour of or against such resolution.
179. Demand for poll.
(1) Before or on the declaration of the result of the voting on any resolution
on a show of hands, a poll may be ordered to be taken by the chairman of the
meeting of his own motion, and shall be ordered to be taken by him on a demand
made in that behalf by the persons or person specified below, that is to
say,--
(a) 1 in the case of a public company having a share capital, by any members
present in person or by proxy and holding shares in the company-
(i) which confer a power to vote on the resolution not being less than one
tenth of the total voting power in respect of the resolution, or
(ii) on which an aggregate sum of not less than fifty thou- sand rupees has
been paid up,
(b) in the case of a private company having a share capital, by one member
having the right to vote on the resolution and present in person or by proxy
if not more than seven such members are personally present, and by two such
members present in person or by proxy, if more than seven such members are
personally present,
(c) in the case of any other company, by any member or members present in
person or by proxy and having not less than one tenth of the total voting
power in respect of the resolution].
(2) The demand for a poll may be withdrawn at any time by the person or
persons who made the demand.
180. Time of taking poll.
(1) A poll demanded on a question of adjournment shall be taken forthwith.
(2) A poll demanded on any other question (not being a question relating to
the election of a chairman which is provided for in sec- tion 175) shall be
taken at such time not being later than forty-
1\. Subs. by Act 31 of 1988, s. 24 (w. e. f. 15- 6- 1988 ).
eight hours from the time when the demand was made, as the chairman may
direct.
181. Restriction on exercise of voting right of members who have not paid calls, etc. Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, the articles of a company may provide that no member shall exercise any voting right in respect of any shares registered in his name on which any calls or other sums presently payable by him have not been paid, or in regard to which the company has and has exercised any right of lien.
182. Restrictions on exercise of voting right in other cases to be void. A public company, or a private company which is a subsidiary of a public company shall not prohibit any member from exercising his voting right on the ground that he has not held his share or other interest in the company for any specified period preceding the date on which the vote is taken, or on any other ground not being a ground set out in section 181.
183. Right member to use his votes differently. On a poll taken at a meeting of a company,' a member entitled to more than one vote, or his proxy, or other person entitled to vote for him, as the case may be, need not, if he votes, use all his votes or cast in the same way all the votes he uses.
184. Scrutineers at poll.
(1) Where a poll is to be taken, the chairman of the meeting shall appoint two
scrutineers to scrutinise the votes given on the poll and to report thereon to
him.
(2) The chairman shall have power, at any time before the result of the poll
is declared, to remove a scrutineer from office and to fill vacancies in the
office of scrutineer arising from such removal or from any other cause.
(3) Of the two scrutineers appointed under this section, one shall always be a
member (not being an officer or employee of the com- pany) present at the
meeting, provided such a member is available and willing to be appointed.
185. Manner of taking poll and result thereof.
(1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, the chairman of the meeting shall
have power to regulate the manner in which a poll shall be taken.
(2) The result of the poll shall be deemed to be the decision of the meeting
on the resolution on which the poll was taken.
186. Power of Company Law Board to order meeting to be called.
(1) If for any reason it is impracticable to call a meeting of a company,
other than an annual general meeting, in any manner in which meetings of the
company may be called, or to hold or conduct the meeting of the company in the
manner prescribed by this Act or the articles, the 1 Company Law Board] may,
either of its own motion or on the application of any director of the company,
or of any member of the company who would be entitled to vote at the
meeting,--
(a) order a meeting of the company to be called, held and conducted in such
manner as the 1 Company Law Board] thinks fit; and
(b) give such ancillary or consequential directions as the 1 Company Law
Board] thinks expedient, including directions modifying or supplementing in
relation to the calling, holding and conducting of the meeting, the operation
of the provisions of this Act and of the company' s articles. Explanation.-
The directions that may be given under this sub- section may include a
direction that one member of the company present in person or by proxy shall
be deemed to constitute a meeting.
(2) Any meeting called, held and conducted in accordance with any such order
shall, for all purposes, be deemed to be a meeting of the company duly called,
held and conducted.
187. Representation of corporations at meetings of companies and of creditors.
(1) A body corporate (whether a company within the mean- ing of this Act or
not) may-
(a) if it is a member of a company within the meaning of this Act, by
resolution of its Board of directors or other governing body, authorise such
person as it thinks fit to act as its representative at any meeting of the
company, or at any meeting of any class of members of the company;
(b) if it is a creditor (including a holder of debentures) of a company within
the meaning of this Act, by resolution of its directors or other governing
body, authorise such person as it thinks fit to act as its representative at
any meeting of any creditors of the company held in pursuance of this Act or
of any rules made thereunder, or in
1\. Subs. by Act 41 of 1974, s. 14, for" Court" (w. e. f. 1- 2- 1975 ).
pursuance of the provisions contained in any debenture or trust deed, as the
case may be.
(2) A person authorised by resolution as aforesaid shall be entitled to
exercise the same rights and powers (including the right to vote by proxy) on
behalf of the body corporate which he represents as that body could exercise
if it were 1 an individual member, creditor or holder of debentures of the
company.
Representation of the President and Governors in meetings of companiesof which
they are members.
187A. 2 Representation of the President and Governors in meetings of companies
of which they are members.
(1) The President of India or the Governor of a State if he is a member of a
company, may appoint such person as he thinks fit to act as his representative
at any meeting of the company or at any meeting of any class of members of the
company.
(2) A person appointed to act as aforesaid shall, for the purposes of this
Act, be deemed to be a member of such a company and shall be entitled to
exercise the same rights and powers (including the right to vote by proxy) as
the President or, as the case may be, the Governor could exercise as a member
of the company.]
Exercise of voting rights in respect of shares held in trust.
187B. 3 Exercise of voting rights in respect of shares held in trust.
(1) Save as otherwise provided in section 153B but notwithstanding anything
contained in any other provisions of this Act or any other law or any
contract, memorandum or articles, where any shares in a company are held in
trust by a person (hereinafter referred to as trustee), the rights and powers
(including the right to vote by proxy) exercisable at any meeting of the
company or at any meeting of any class of members of the company by the
trustee as a member of the company shall-
(a) cease to be exercisable by the trustee as such member. and
(b) become exercisable by the public trustee.
(2) The public trustee may, instead of himself attending the meeting, and
exercising the rights and powers, as aforesaid, appoint as his proxy an
officer of Government or the trustee himself to attend such meeting and to
exercise such rights and powers in accordance with the directions of the
public trustee: Provided that where the trustee is appointed by the public
trustee as his proxy, the trustee shall be entitled, notwithstanding anything
1\. Subs. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 48, for" a member".
2\. Ins. by s. 49, ibid.
3\. Ins. by Act 53 of 1963, s. 8 (w. e. f. 1- 12- 1964 ).
contained in any other provisions of this Act, to exercise such rights and
powers in the same manner as he would have been but for the provisions of this
section.
(3) The public trustee may abstain from exercising the rights and powers
conferred on him by this section if in his opinion the objects of the trust or
the interests of the beneficiaries of the trust are not likely to be adversely
affected by such abstention.
(4) If for any reason the trustee considers that the public trustee should not
abstain from exercising the rights and powers conferred on him by this section
and the exercise of such rights and powers is necessary in order to safeguard
the objects of the trust or the interests. of the beneficiaries of the trust,
he, may by writing communicate his views in this behalf to the public trustee
but the public. trustee may in his discretion either accept such views or
reject the same.
(5) No suit, prosecution or other legal proceeding shall lie against' the
public trustee at the instance of the trustee or any person on his behalf or
any other person on the ground that the public trustee has abstained from
exercising the rights and powers conferred on him by this section.
(6) In order to enable the public trustee to exercise the rights and powers
aforesaid, the public trustee shall also be entitled to. receive and inspect
all books and papers under this Act, which a member is entitled to receive and
inspect.]
Declaration by persons not holding beneficial interest in any share.
187C. 1 Declaration by persons not holding beneficial interest in any share.
(1) Notwithstanding anything contained in section 150 section 153B or section
187B, a person, whose name is entered, at the commencement of the Companies
(Amendment) Act, 1974 , (41 of 1974 ) or at any time thereafter, in the
register of members of a company as the holder of a share in that company but
who does not hold the beneficial interest in such share, shall, within such
time and in such form as may be prescribed, make a declaration to the company
specifying the name and other particulars of the person who holds the
beneficial interest in such share.
(2) Notwithstanding anything contained elsewhere in this Act, a person who
holds a beneficial interest in a share or a class of shares of a company
shall, within thirty days from the commencement of the Companies (Amendment)
Act, 1974 , (41 of 1974 ) or within thirty days after
1\. Ins. by Act 41 of 1974, s. 15 (w. e. f. 1- 2- 1975 ).
his becoming such beneficial owner, whichever is later, make a decla- ration
to the company specifying the nature of his interest, parti- culars of the
person in whose name the shares stand registered in the books of the company
and such other particulars as may be prescribed.
(3) Whenever there is a change in the beneficial interest in such shares the
beneficial owner shall, within thirty days from the date of such change, make
a declaration to the company in such form and containing such particulars as
may be prescribed.
(4) Notwithstanding anything contained in section 153 where any declaration
referred to in sub- section (1), sub- section (2) or sub- section (3) is made
to a company, the company shall make a note of such declaration, in its
register of members and shall file, within thirty days from the date of
receipt of the declaration by it, a return in the prescribed form with the
Registrar with regard to such declaration.
(5) (a) If any person, being required by the provisions of sub- section (1),
sub- section (2) or sub- section (3), to make a declaration, fails without any
reasonable excuse, to do so, he shall be punishable with fine which may extend
to one thousand rupees for every day during which the failure continues.
(b) If a company fails to comply with the provisions of this section, the
company, and every officer of the company who is in default, shall be
punishable with fine which may extend to one hundred rupees for every day
during which the default continues.
(6) Any charge, promissory note or any other collateral agree- ment, created,
executed or entered into in relation to any share, by the ostensible owner
thereof, or any hypothecation by the ostensible owner of any share, in respect
of which a declaration is required to be made under the foregoing provisions
of this section, but not so declared, shall not be enforceable by the
beneficial owner or any person claiming through him.
(7) Nothing in this section shall be deemed to prejudice the obligation of a
company to pay dividend in accordance with the provisions of section 206, and
the obligation shall, on such payment, stand discharged.
188. Circulation of members' re- solutions.
(1) Subject to the provisions of this section, a company shall, on the
requisition in writing of such number of members as is hereinafter specified
and (unless the company otherwise resolves) at the expense of the
requisitionists,-
(a) give to members of the company entitled to receive notice of the next
annual general meeting notice of any resolution which may properly be moved
and is intended to be moved at that meeting;
(b) circulate to members entitled to have notice of any general meeting sent
to them, any statement of not more than one thousand words with respect to-
the matter referred to in any proposed resolution, or any business to be dealt
with at that meeting.
(2) The number of members necessary for a requisition under sub- section (1)
shall be-
(a) such number of members as represent not less than one- twentieth of the
total voting power of all the members having at the date of the requisition a
right to vote on the resolution or business to which the requisition relates;
or
(b) not less than one hundred members having the right aforesaid and holding
shares in the company on which there has been paid up an aggregate sum of not
less than one lakh of rupees in all.
(3) Notice of any such resolution shall be given, and any such statement shall
be circulated to members of the company entitled to have notice of the meeting
sent to them, by serving a copy of the resolution or statement on each member
in any manner permitted for service of notice of the meeting; and notice of
any such resolution shall be given to any other member of the company by
giving notice of the general effect of the resolution in any manner permitted
for giving him notice of meetings of the company: Provided that the copy shall
be served, or notice of the effect of the resolution shall be given, as the
case may be, in the same manner and, so far as practicable, at the same time
as notice of the meeting, and where it is not practicable for it to be served
or given at that time, it shall be served or given as soon as practicable
thereafter.
(4) A company shall not be bound under this section to give notice of any
resolution or to circulate any statement unless-
(a) a copy of the requisition signed by the requisitionists (or two or more
copies which between them contain the signatures of all the requisitionists)
is deposited at the registered office of the company-
(i) in the case of a requisition requiring notice of a resolution, not less
than six weeks before the meeting;
(ii) in the case of any other requisition, not less than two weeks before the
meeting; and
(b) there is deposited or tendered with the requisition a sum reasonably
sufficient to meet the company' s expenses in giving effect thereto: Provided
that if, after a copy of a requisition requiring notice of a resolution has
been deposited at the registered office of the company, an annual general
meeting is called for a date six weeks or less after the copy has been
deposited, the copy, although not deposited within the time required by this
sub- section shall be deemed to have been properly deposited for the purposes
thereof.
(5) The company shall also not be bound under this section to circulate any
statement if, on the application either of the company or of any other person
who claims to be aggrieved, the 1 Company Law Board] satisfied that the rights
conferred by this section are being abused to secure needless publicity for
defamatory matter; and the 1 Company Law Board] may order the company' s costs
on an application under this section
1\. Subs. by Act 31 of 1988, s. 67 (w. e. f. 31- 5- 1991 ).
to be paid in whole or in part by the requisitionists, notwithstanding that
they are not parties to the application.
(6) A banking company shall not be bound to circulate any state- ment under
this section, if, in the opinion of its Board of directors, the circulation
will injure the interests of the company.
(7) Notwithstanding anything in the company' s articles, the business which
may be dealt with at an annual general meeting shall include any resolution of
which notice is given in accordance with this section, and for the purposes of
this sub- section, notice shall be deemed to have been so given,
notwithstanding the accidental omission in giving it, of one or more members.
(8) If default is made in complying with the provisions of this section, every
officer of the company who is in default, shall be punishable with fine which
may extend to five thousand rupees.
189. Ordinary and special resolutions.
(1) A resolution shall be an ordinary resolution when at a general meeting of
which the notice required under this Act has been duly given, the votes cast
(whether on a show of hands, or on a poll, as the case may be,) in favour of
the resolution (including the casting vote, if any, of the chairman) by
members who, being entitled so to do, vote in person, or where proxies are
allowed, by proxy, exceed the votes, if any, cast against the resolution by
members so entitled and voting.
(2) A resolution shall be a special resolution when-
(a) the intention to propose the resolution as a special resolution has been
duly specified in the notice calling the general meeting or other intimation
given to the members of the resolution;-
(b) the notice required under this Act has been duly given of the general
meeting; and
(c) the votes cast in favour of the resolution (whether on a show of hands, or
on a poll, as the case may be,) by members who, being entitled so to do, vote
in person, or where proxies are allowed, by proxy, are not less than three
times the number of the votes, if any, cast against the resolution by members
so entitled and voting.
190. Resolutions requiring special notice.
(1) Where, by any provision contained in this Act or in the articles, special
notice is required of any resolution, notice of the
intention to move the resolution shall be given to the company not less than 1
fourteen days] before the meeting at which it is to be moved, exclusive of the
day on which the notice is served or deemed to be served and the day of the
meeting.
(2) 2 The company shall, immediately after the notice of the intention to move
any such resolution has been received by it, give its members notice of the
resolution in the same manner as it gives notice of the meeting, or if that is
not practicable, shall give them notice thereof, either by advertisement in a
newspaper having an appropriate circulation or in any other mode allowed by
the articles, not less than seven days before the meeting.]
191. Resolutions passed at adjourned meetings. Where a resolution is passed at an adjourned meeting of-
(a) a company;
(b) the holders of any class of shares in a company; or
(c) the Board of directors of a company; the resolution shall, for all
purposes, be treated as having been passed on the date on which it was in fact
passed, and shall not be deemed to have been passed on any earlier date.
192. Registration of certain resolutions and agreements.
(1) A copy of every resolution 3 (together with a copy of the statement of
material facts annexed under section 173 to the notice of the meeting in which
such resolution has been passed)] or agreement to which this section applies
shall, within 4 thirty] days after the passing or making thereof, be printed
or typewritten and duly certified under the signature of an officer of the
company and filed with the Registrar who shall record the same.
(2) Where articles have been registered 5 a copy of every reso- lution
referred to in sub- section (1) which has the effect of altering the articles
and a copy of every agreement referred to in that sub- section] for the time
being in force shall be embodied in or annexed to every copy of the articles
issued after the passing of the resolution or the making of the agreement.
1\. Subs. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 50, for" twenty- eight days".
2\. Subs. by s. 50, ibid., for sub- sections (2) and (3).
3\. Ins. by s. 51, ibid.
4\. Subs. by Act 31 of 1965, s. 62 and Sch., for" fifteen" (w. e. f. 15- 10-
1965 ).
5\. Subs. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 51, for" a copy of every such resolution or
agreement".
(3) Where articles have not been registered, a printed copy of every 1
resolution or agreement referred to in sub- section (1)] shall be forwarded to
any member at his request, on payment of one rupee.
(4) This section shall apply to-
(a) special resolutions;
(b) resolutions which have been agreed to by all the members of a company, but
which, if not so agreed to, would not have been effective for their purpose
unless they had been passed as special resolutions;
(c) any resolution of the Board of directors of a company or agreement
executed by a company, relating to the appointment, re- appointment or renewal
of the appointment, or variation of the terms of appointment, of a managing
director;
(d) any agreement relating tot the appointment, re- appointment or renewal of
the appointment of a managing agent or secretaries and treasurers for a
company, or varying the terms of any such agreement, executed by the company;
(e) resolutions or agreements which have been agreed to by all the members of
any class of shareholders but which, if not so agreed to, would not have been
effective for their purpose unless they had been passed by some particular
majority or otherwise in some particular manner; and all resolutions or
agreements which effectively bind all the members of any class of shareholders
though not agreed to by all those member; 2
(ee) 3 resolutions passed by a company-
(i) according consent to the exercise by its Board of directors of any of the
powers under clause (a), clause (d) and clause (e) of sub- section (1) of
section 293;
1\. Subs. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 51, for" such resolution or agreement".
2\. The word" and" omitted by s. 51, ibid.
3\. Ins. by s. 51, ibid.
(ii) approving the appointment of sole selling agents under 1 section 294 or
section 294AA]; and]
(f) resolutions requiring a company to be wound up volun- tarily passed in
pursuance of sub- section (1) of section 484;
(g) 2 copies of the terms and conditions of appointment of a sole selling
agent appointed under section 294 or of a sole selling agent or other person
appointed under section 294AA.]
1\. Subs. by Act 41 of 1974, s. 16, for" section 294" (w. e. f. 1- 2- 1975 ).
2\. Ins. by s. 16, ibid. (w. e. f. 1- 2- 1975 ).
(5) If default is made in complying with sub- section (1), the com- pany, and
every officer of the company who is in default, shall be punishable with fine
which may extend to twenty rupees for every day during which the default
continues.
(6) If default is made in complying with sub- section (2) or (3), the company,
and every officer of the company who is in default, shall be punishable with
fine which may extend to ten rupees for each copy in respect of which default
is made.
(7) For the purposes of sub- sections (5) and (6), the liquidator of a company
shall be deemed to be an officer of the company.
193. Minutes of proceedings of general meetings and of Board and other meetings. 1
(1) Every company shall cause minutes of all proceedings of every general
meeting and of all proceedings of every meeting of its Board of directors or
of every committee of the Board, to be kept by making within 2 thirty] days of
the conclusion of every such meeting concerned, entries thereof in books kept
for that purpose with their pages consecutively numbered.
(1A) Each page of every such book shall be initialled or signed and the last
page of the record of proceedings of each meeting in such books shall be dated
and signed-
(a) in the case of minutes of proceedings of a meeting of the Board or of a
committee thereof, by the chairman of the said meeting or the chairman of the
next succeeding meeting;
(b) in the case of minutes of proceedings of a general meeting, by the
chairman of the same meeting within the aforesaid period of 2 thirty] days or
in the event of the death or inability of that chairman within that period, by
a director duly authorised by the Board for the purpose.
(1B) In no case the minutes of proceedings of a meeting shall be attached to
any such book as aforesaid by pasting or otherwise.]
(2) The minutes of each meeting shall contain a fair and correct summary of
the proceedings thereat.
(3) All appointments of officers made at any of the meetings aforesaid shall
be included in the minutes of the meeting.
(4) In the case of a meeting of the Board of directors or of a committee of
the Board, the minutes shall also contain-
(a) the names of the directors present at the meeting; and
1\. Subs. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 52, for sub- section (1).
2\. Subs. by Act 31 of 1965, s. 62 and Sch. for" fourteen" (w. e. f. 15- 10-
1985 ).
(b) in the case of each resolution passed at the meeting, the names of the
directors, if any, dissenting from, or not concurring in, the resolution.
(5) Nothing contained in Sub- sections (1) to (4) shall be deemed to require
the inclusion in any such minutes of any matter which, in the opinion of the
chairman of the meeting-
(a) is, or could reasonably be regarded as, defamatory of any person; (b) is
irrelevant or immaterial to the proceedings; or
(c) is detrimental to the interests of the company. Explanation.- The chairman
shall exercise an absolute discretion in regard to the inclusion or non-
inclusion of any matter in the minutes on the grounds specified in this sub-
section.
(6) If default is made in complying with the foregoing provi- sions of this
section in respect of any meeting, the company, and every officer of the
company who is in default, shall be punishable with fine which may extend to
fifty rupees.
194. 1 Minutes to be evidence. Minutes of meetings kept in accordance with the provisions of section 193 shall be evidence of the proceedings recorded therein.]
195. Presumptions to be drawn where minutes duly drawn and signed. Where minutes of the proceedings of any general meeting of the company or of any meeting of its Board of directors or of a committee of the Board 2 have been kept in accordance with the provisions of section 193], then, until the contrary is proved, the meeting shall be deemed to have' been duly called and held, and all proceedings thereat to have duly taken place, and in particular, all appointments of directors or liquidators made at the meeting shall be deemed to be valid.
196. Inspection of minute books of general meetings.
(1) The books containing the minutes of the proceedings of any general meeting
of a company held on or after the 15th day of January, 1937 , shall-
(a) be kept at the registered office of the company, and
(b) be open, during business hours, to the inspection of any member without
charge, subject to such reasonable
1\. Subs. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 53, for s. 194. 2. Subs. by s. 54, ibid., for
certain words.
restrictions as the company may, by its articles or in general meeting impose,
so however that not less than two hours in each day are allowed for
inspection.
(2) Any member shall be entitled to be furnished, within seven days after he
has made a request in that behalf to the company, with a copy of any minutes
referred to in sub- section (1), on payment of 1 such sum as may be
prescribed] for every one hundred words or fractional part thereof required to
be copied.
(3) If any inspection required under sub- section (1) is refused or if any
copy required under sub- section (2) is not furnished within the time
specified therein, the company, and every officer of the com- pany who is in
default, shall be punishable with fine which may extend to five hundred rupees
in respect of each offence.
(4) In the case of any such refusal or default, the 2 company Law Board] may,
by order, compel an immediate inspection of the minute books or direct that
the copy required shall forthwith be sent to the person requiring it.
197. Publication of reports of proceedings of general meetings.
(1) No document purporting to be a report of the proceedings of any general
meeting of a company shall be circulated or advertised at the expense of the
company, unless it includes the matters required by section 193 to be
contained in the minutes of the proceedings of such meeting.
(2) If any report is circulated or advertised in contravention of sub- section
(1), the company, and every officer of the company who is in default, shall be
punishable, in respect of each offence, with fine which may extend to five
hundred rupees. 1 Prohibition of simultaneous appointment of different
categories of managerial personnel
Company not to appoint or employ certain different categories of mana- gerial
personnel at the same time.
197A. Company not to appoint or employ certain different categories of
managerial personnel at the same time. Notwithstanding anything contained in
this Act or any other law or any agreement or instrument, no company shall,
after the commencement of the Companies (Amendment) Act, 1960 , (65 of 1960 )
appoint or employ at the same time, or after the expiry of six months from
such commencement, continue the appointment or employment at the same time, of
more than one of the following categories of managerial personnel, namely:-.
(a) managing director,
(b) managing agent,
1\. Subs. by Act 31 of 1988, S. 67 (w. e. f. 15- 7- 1988 ).
2\. Subs. by s. 67, ibid. (w. e. f. 31- 5- 1991 ).
3\. Ins. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 55.
(c) secretaries and treasurers, and
(d) manager.] Managerial remuneration, etc.
198. 1 Overall maximum managerial remuneration and managerial remuneration in case of absence or inadequacy of profits.
(1) The total managerial remuneration payable by a public company or a private
company which is a subsidiary of a public company, to its directors and its
managing agent, secretaries and treasurers or manager in respect of any
financial year shall not exceed eleven per cent. of the net profits of that
company for that financial year computed in the manner laid down in sections
349, 350 and 351, except that the remuneration of the directors shall not be
deducted from the gross profits: Provided that nothing in this section shall
affect the operation of sections 352 to 354 and 356 to 360.
(2) The percentage aforesaid shall be exclusive of any fees pay- able to
directors under sub- section (2) of section 309.
(3) Within the limits of the maximum remuneration specified in sub- section
(1), a company may pay a monthly remuneration to its managing or whole- time
director in accordance with the provisions of section 309 or to its manager in
accordance with the provisions of section 387.
(4) 2 Notwithstanding anything contained in sub- sections (1) to (3), but
subject to the provisions of section 269, read with Schedule XIII, if, in any
financial year, a company has no profits or its profits are inadequate, the
company shall not pay to its directors, including any managing or whole- time
director or manager, by way of remuneration any sum[ exclusive of any fees
payable to directors under sub- section (2) of section 309], except with the
previous approval of the Central Government.]
1\. Subs by Act 65 of 1960, s. 56, for s. 198.
2\. Subs. by Act 31 of 1988, s. 25 (w. e. f. 15- 6- 1988 ).
Explanation.- For the purposes of this section and sections 309, 310, 311,
348, 352, 381 and 387," remuneration" shall include,-
(a) any expenditure incurred by the company in providing any rent- free
accommodation, or any other benefit or amenity in respect of accommodation
free of charge, to any of the persons specified in sub- section (1);
(b) any expenditure incurred by the company in providing any other benefit or
amenity free of charge or at a concessional rate to any of the persons
aforesaid;
(c) any expenditure incurred by the company in respect of any obligation or
service which, but for such expenditure by the company, would have been
incurred by any of the persons aforesaid; and
(d) any expenditure incurred by the company to effect any insurance on the
life of, or to provide any pension, annuity or gratuity for, any of the
persons aforesaid or his spouse or child.]
199. Calculation of commission, etc., in certain cases.
(1) Where any commission or other remuneration payable to any officer or
employee of a company (not being a director, the managing agent, secretaries
and treasurers or a manager) is fixed at a percentage of, or is otherwise
based on, the net profits of the company, such profits shall be calculated in
the manner set out in sections 349, 350 and 351.
(2) Any provision in force at the commencement of this Act for the payment of
any commission or other remuneration in any manner based on the net profits of
a company, shall continue to be in force for a period of one year from such
commencement; and thereafter shall become subject to the provisions of sub-
section (1).
200. Prohibition of tax- free payments.
(1) No company shall pay to any officer or employee thereof, whether in his
capacity as such or otherwise, remuneration free of any tax, or otherwise
calculated by reference to, or varying with, any tax payable by him, or the
rate or standard rate of any such tax, or the amount thereof. Explanation.- In
this sub- section, the expression" tax" comprises any kind of income- tax
including super- tax.
(2) Where by virtue of any provision in force immediately before the
commencement of this Act, whether contained in the company' s
articles, or in any contract made with the company, or in any re- solution
passed by the company in general meeting or by the company' s Board of
directors, any officer or employee of the company holding any office at the
commencement of this Act is entitled to remuneration in any of the modes
prohibited by sub- section (1), such provision shall have effect during the
residue of the term for which he is entitled to hold such office at such
commencement, as if it provided instead for the payment of a gross sum subject
to the tax in question, which, after deducting such tax, would yield the net
sum actually specified in such provision.
(3) This section shall not apply to any remuneration-
(a) which fell due before the commencement of this Act, or
(b) which may fall due after the commencement of this Act, in respect of any
period before such commencement.
201. Avoidance of provisions relieving liability of officers and auditors of company.
(1) Save as provided in this section, any provision, whether contained in the
articles of a company or in an agreement with a company or in any other
instrument, for exempting any officer of the company or any person employed by
the company as auditor from, or indemnifying him against, any liability which,
by virtue of any rule of law, would otherwise attach to him in respect of any
negligence, default, misfeasance, breach of duty or breach of trust of which
he may be guilty in relation to the company, shall be void; Provided that a
company may, in pursuance of any such provision as aforesaid indemnify any
such officer or auditor against any liability incurred by him in defending any
proceedings, whether civil or criminal, in which judgment is given in his
favour or in which he is acquitted or discharged or in connection with any
application under section 633 in which relief is granted to him by the Court.
(2) Nothing contained in the proviso to sub- section (1) shall apply to the
constituted attorney of the managing agent of a company, unless such attorney
is, or is deemed to be, an officer of the company. Prevention of Management by
Undesirable Persons
202. Undischarged insolvent not to manage companies.
(1) If any person, being an undischarged insolvent,-
(a) discharges any of the functions of a director, or acts as or discharges
any of the functions of the managing agent, secretaries and treasurers, or
manager, of any company; or
(b) directly or indirectly takes part or is concerned in the promotion,
formation or management of any company; he shall be punishable with
imprisonment for a term which may extend to two years, or with fine which may
extend to five thousand rupees, or with both.
(2) In this section," company" includes-
(a) an unregistered company; and
(b) a body corporate incorporated outside India, which has an established
place of business within India.
203. Power to restrain fraudulent person from managing companies.
(1) Where-
(a) a person is convicted of any offence in connection with the promotion,
formation or management of a company; or
(b) in the course of winding up a company it appears that a person-
(i) has been guilty of any offence for which he is punishable (whether he has
been convicted or not) under section 542; or
(ii) has otherwise been guilty, while an officer of the company, of any fraud
or misfeasance in relation to the company or of any breach of his duty to the
company; the Court may make an order that that person shall not, without the
leave of the Court, be a director of, or in any way, whether directly or
indirectly, be concerned or take part in the promotion, formation or
management of a company, for such period not exceeding five years as may be
specified in the order.
(2) In sub- section (1), the expression" the Court",-
(a) in relation to the making of an order against any person by virtue clause
(a) thereof, includes the Court by which he is convicted, as well as any Court
having jurisdiction to wind up the company as respects which the offence as
committed; and
(b) in relation to the granting of leave, means any Court having jurisdiction
to wind up the company as respects which leave is sought.
(3) A person intending to apply for the making of an order under this section
by the Court having jurisdiction to wind up a company shall give not less than
ten days' notice of his intention to the person
against whom the order is sought, and at the hearing of the applica- tion, the
last- mentioned person may appear and himself give evidence or call witnesses.
(4) An application for the making of an order under this section by the Court
having jurisdiction to wind up a company may be made by the Official
Liquidator, or by the liquidator of the company, or by any person who is or
has been a member or creditor of the company.
(5) On the hearing of any application for an order under this section by the
Official Liquidator or the liquidator, or of any application for leave under
this section by a person against whom an order has been made on the
application of the Official Liquidator or liquidator, the Official Liquidator
or liquidator shall appear and call the attention of the Court to any matters
which seem to him to be relevant, and may himself give evidence or call
witnesses,
(6) An order may be made by virtue of sub- clause (ii) of clause (b) of sub-
section (1), notwithstanding that the person concerned may be criminally
liable in respect of the matters on the ground of which the order is to be
made 1 .
(7) If any person acts in contravention of an order made under this section,
he shall, in, respect of each offence, be punishable with imprisonment for a
term which may extend to two years, or with fine which may extend to five
thousand rupees, or with both.
(8) The provisions of this section shall be in addition to, and without
prejudice to the operation of, any other provision contained in this Act.
Restriction on appointment of firms and bodies corporate to offices
204. Restriction on appointment of firm or body corporate to office or place of profit under a company. 2
(1) Save as provided in sub- section (2), no company shall, after the
commencement of this Act, appoint or employ any firm or body corporate to or
in any office or place of profit under the company, other than the office of
managing agent, secretaries and treasurers or trustee for the holders of
debentures of the company, for a term exceeding five years at a time: Provided
that the initial appointment or employment of a firm or body corporate to or
in any office or place of profit as aforesaid may,
1\. Certain words omitted by Act 31 of 1965, s. 19 (w. e. f. 15- 10- 1965 ).
2\. Subs. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 57. for sub- section (1).
with the approval of the Central Government, be made for a term not exceeding
ten years.]
(2) Sub- section (1) shall not apply to the appointment or employment of a
firm or body corporate as a technician or a consultant,-
(i) unless the firm or body corporate aforesaid is already the managing agent
or secretaries and treasurers of the com- pany; or
(ii) unless a partner in the firm, aforesaid, or a director or member of the
body corporate aforesaid being a private company, or a director of the body
corporate aforesaid not being a private company, is- already the managing
agent of the company; or a member of the firm, a director or member of the
private company, or a director of the body corporate not being a private
company, which firm, private company or body corporate is already the managing
agent or the secretaries and treasurers of the company.
(3) Any firm or body corporate holding at the commencement of this Act any
office or place of profit under the company shall, unless its term of office
expires earlier, be deemed to have vacated its office immediately on the
expiry of five years from the commencement of this Act.
(4) Nothing contained in sub- section (1) shall be deemed to prohibit the re-
appointment, re- employment, or extension of the term of office, of any firm
or body corporate, by further periods not exceeding five years on each
occasion: Provided that any such re- appointment, re- employment or extension
shall not be sanctioned earlier than two years from the date on which it is to
come into force.
(5) Any office or place in a company shall be deemed to be an office or place
of profit under the company, within the meaning of this section, if the person
holding it 1 obtains from the company anything] by way of remuneration,
whether as salary, fees, commission, perquisites, the right to occupy free of
rent any premises as a place of residence, or otherwise.
1\. Subs. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 57, for" obtains anything".
(6) This section shall not apply to a private company, unless it is a
subsidiary of a public company.
Restrictions on the appointment of former managing agents orsecretaries and
treasurers to any office.
204A. 1 Restrictions on the appointment of former managing agents or
secretaries and treasurers to any office.
(1) Except with the previous approval of the-
(a) company in general meeting, and
(b) Central Government, no company shall, during a period of five years from
the commence- ment of the Companies (Amendment) Act, 1974 , (41 of 1974 .)
appoint as secretary, consultant or adviser or to any other office, by
whatever name called,-
(i) any individual, firm or body corporate who, or which, had at any time
after the 15th day of August, 1960 , been holding office as the managing
agents or secretaries and treasurers of the company, or
(ii) any associate of the managing agents or secretaries and treasurers as
aforesaid: Provided that where any such appointment has been made before the
commencement of the Companies (Amendment) Act, 1974 , (41 of 1974 .) no such
appointment shall be continued by the company after a period of six months
from such commencement unless such appointment has been approved by the
company in general meeting and the Central Government before the expiry of the
said period.
(2) (a) Where-
(i) any individual, firm or body corporate, who, or which, had at any time
after the 15th day of August, 1960 , been holding office as the managing
agents or secretaries and treasurers of the company, or
(ii) any associate of the managing agents or secretaries and treasurers as
aforesaid; has been appointed by such company at any time during a period of
five years preceding the 3rd day of April, 1970 , or at any time after that
date, as its secretary, consultant or adviser, or to any other office under
it, by whatever name called, the Central Government may, if it appears to it
that there is good reason for so doing, require the
1\. Ins. by Act 41 of 1974, s. 17 (w. e. f. 1- 2- 1975 ).
company to furnish to it such information as it may consider neces- sary, with
regard to the terms and conditions of the appointment of such individual, firm
or body corporate as secretary, consultant or adviser or as the holder of such
other office, for the purpose of determining whether or not such terms and
conditions are prejudicial to the interest of the company.
(b) If the company refuses or neglects to furnish any such information, the
Central Government may appoint a competent person to investigate and report on
the terms and conditions of appointment to any of the offices referred to in
clause (a) and the provisions of section 240A shall, so far as may be, apply,
to such investigation, as they apply to any other investigation made under any
other provision of this Act.
(c) If, after perusal of the information furnished by the com- pany, or, as
the case may be, the report submitted by the person appointed under clause
(b), the Central Government is of opinion that the terms and conditions of
appointment to any of the offices referred to in clause (a) are prejudicial to
the interests of the company, it may, by order, make such variations in those
terms and conditions as would, in its opinion, no longer render such terms and
conditions of appointment prejudicial to the interests of the company.
(d) As from such date as may be specified by the Central Gov- ernment in the
order aforesaid, the appointment referred to in clause (a) shall be regulated
by the terms and conditions as varied by that Government.
(3) For the purposes of this section, the expression" appointment" includes
re- appointment, employment and re- employment.] Dividends and manner and time
of payment thereof
205. 1 Dividend to be paid only out of profits.
(1) No dividend shall be declared or paid by a company for any financial year
except out of the profits of the company for that year arrived at after
providing for depreciation in accordance with the provisions of sub- section
(2) or out of the profits of the company for any previous financial year or
years arrived at after providing for depreciation in accordance with those
provisions and remaining undistributed or out of both or out of moneys
provided by the Central Government or a State Government for the payment of
dividend in pursuance of a guarantee given by that Government:
1\. Subs. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 58, for s. 205.
Provided that-
(a) if the company has not provided for depreciation for any previous
financial year or years which falls or fall after the commencement of the
Companies (Amendment) Act, 1960 , (65 of 1960 .) it shall, before declaring or
paying dividend for any financial year provide for such depreciation out of
the profits of that financial year or out of the profits of any other previous
financial year or years;
(b) if the company has incurred any loss in any previous financial year or
years, which falls or fall after the commencement of the Companies (Amendment)
Act, 1960 , (65 of 1960 .) then, the amount of the loss or an amount which is
equal to the amount provided for depreciation for that year or those years
whichever is less, shall be set off against the profits of the company for the
year for which dividend is proposed to be declared or paid or against the
profits of the company for any previous financial year or years, arrived at in
both cases after providing for depreciation in accordance with the provisions
of subsection (2) or against both;
(c) the Central Government may, if it thinks necessary so to do in the public
interest, allow any company to declare or pay dividend for any financial year
out of the profits of the company for that year or any previous financial year
or years without providing for depreciation: Provided further that it shall
not be necessary for a company to provide for depreciation as aforesaid where
dividend for any financial year is declared or paid out of the profits of any
previous financial year or years which falls or fall before the commencement
of the companies (Amendment) Act, 1960 . (65 of 1960 .)
(2) For the purpose of sub- section (1), depreciation shall be provided
either-
(a) to the extent specified in section 350; or
(b) in respect of each item of depreciable asset, for such an amount as is
arrived at by dividing ninety- five per cent. of the original cost thereof to
the company by the specified period in respect of such asset; or
(c) on any other basis approved by the Central Government which has the effect
of writing off by way of depreciation ninety- five per cent. of the original
cost to the company of each such depreciable asset on the expiry of the
specified period; or
(d) as regards any other depreciable asset for which no rate of depreciation
has been laid down by 1 this Act or any rules made thereunder], on such basis
as may be approved by the Central Government by any general order published in
the Official Gazette or by any special order in any particular case: Provided
that where depreciation is provided for in the manner laid down in clause (b)
or clause (c), then, in the event of the depreciable asset being sold,
discarded, demolished or destroyed the written down value thereof at the end
of the financial year in which the asset is sold, discarded, demolished or
destroyed, shall be written off in accordance with the proviso to section 350.
(2A) 2 Notwithstanding anything contained in sub- section (1), on and from the
commencement of the Companies (Amendment) Act, 1974 , (41 of 1974 ) no
dividend shall be declared or paid by a company for any financial year out of
the profits of the company for that year arrived at after providing for
depreciation in accordance with the provisions of subsection (2), except after
the transfer to the reserves of the company of such percentage of its profits
for that year, not exceeding ten per cent., as may be prescribed: Provided
that nothing in this sub- section shall be deemed to prohibit the voluntary
transfer by a company of a higher percentage of its profits to the reserves in
accordance with such rules as may be made by the Central Government in this
behalf.]
(2B) 3 A company which fails to comply with the provisions of section 80A
shall not, so long as such failure continues, declare any dividend on its
equity shares.]
(3) No dividend shall be payable except in cash: Provided that nothing in this
sub- section shall be deemed to pro- hibit the capitalization of profits or
reserves of a company for the purpose of issuing fully paid- up bonus shares
or paying up any amount for the time being unpaid on any shares held by the
members of the company.
(4) Nothing in this section shall be deemed to affect in any manner the
operation of section 208.
1\. Subs. by Act 31 of 1988, s. 26 (w. e. f. 15- 6- 1988 ).
2\. Ins. by Act 41 of 1974, s. 18 (w. e. f. 1- 2- 1975 ).
3\. Ins. by Act 31 of 1988, s. 26 (w. e. f. 15- 6- 1988 ).
(5) For the purposes of this section-
(a) " specified period" in respect of any depreciable asset shall mean the
number of years at the end of which at least ninety- five per cent. of the
original cost of that asset to the company will have been provided for by way
of depreciation if depreciation were to be calculated in accordance with the
provisions of section 350;
(b) any dividend payable in cash may be paid by cheque or warrant sent through
the post directed to the registered address of the shareholder entitled to the
payment of the dividend or in the case of joint shareholders, to the
registered address of that one of the joint shareholders which is first named
on the register of members, or to such person and to such address as the
shareholder or the joint shareholders may in writing direct.]
Unpaid divident to be transferred to special divided account.
205A. 1 Unpaid dividend to be transferred to special dividend account.
(1) Where, after the commencement of the Companies (Amend- ment) Act, 1974 (41
of 1974 ), a dividend has been declared by a com- pany but has not been paid,
2 or claimed] within forty- two days, from, the date of the declaration, to
any shareholder entitled to the pay- ment of the dividend, the company shall,
within seven days from the date of expiry of the said period of forty- two
days, transfer the total amount of dividend which remains unpaid 2 or
unclaimed] within the said period of forty- two days, to a special account to
be opened by the company in that behalf in any scheduled bank, to be called"
Unpaid Dividend Account of...... Company Limited Company (Pri- vate) Limited".
3 Explanation.- In this sub- section, the expression" dividend which remains
unpaid" means any dividend the warrant in respect thereof has not been
encashed or which has otherwise not been paid or claimed.]
(2) Where the whole or any part of any dividend, declared by a company before
the commencement of the Companies (Amendment) Act, 1974 , (41 of 1974 .)
remains unpaid at such commencement, the com- pany shall, within a period of
six months from such commencement, transfer such unpaid amount to the account
referred to in sub- section (1).
(3) Where, owing to inadequacy or absence of profits in any year, any company
proposes to declare dividend out of the accumulated profits earned by the
company in previous years and transferred by it to the reserves, such
declaration of dividend shall not be made
1\. Ins. by Act 41 of 1974, s. 19 (w. e. f. 1- 2- 1975 ).
2\. Subs. by Act 31 of 1988, s. 27 (w. e. f. 15. 6. 88)
3\. Ins. by s. 27, ibid.
except in accordance with such rules as may be made by the Central Government
in this behalf, and, where any such declaration is not in accordance with such
rules, such declaration shall not be made except with the previous approval of
the Central Government.
(4) If the default is made in transferring the total amount referred to in
sub- section (1) or any part thereof to the unpaid dividend account of the
concerned company, the company shall pay, from the date of such default,
interest on so much of the amount as has not been transferred to the said
account, at the rate of twelve per cent. per annum and the interest accruing
on such amount shall enure to the benefit of the members of the company in
proportion to the amount remaining unpaid to them.
(5) Any money transferred to the unpaid dividend account of a company in
pursuance of this section which remains unpaid or unclaimed for a period of
three years from the date of such transfer, shall be transferred by the
company to the general revenue account of the Central Government but a claim
to, any money so transferred to the general revenue account may be preferred
to the Central Government by the person to whom the money is due and shall be
dealt with as if such transfer to the general revenue account had not been
made, the order, if any, for payment of the claim being treated as an order
for refund of revenue.
(6) The company shall, when making any transfer under sub- section (5) to the
general revenue account of the Central Government any unpaid or unclaimed
dividend, furnish to such officer as the Central Government may appoint in
this behalf a statement in the prescribed form setting forth in respect of all
sums included in such transfer, the nature of the sums, the names and last
known addresses of the person entitled to receive the sum, the amount to which
each person is entitled and the nature his claim thereto and such other
particulars as may be prescribed.
(7) The company shall be entitled to a receipt from the Reserve Bank of India
for any money transferred by it to the general revenue account of the Central
Government and such receipt shall be an effectual discharge of the company in
respect thereof.
(8) If a company fails to comply with any of the requirements of this section,
the company and every officer of the company who is in default, shall be
punishable with fine which may extend to five hundred rupees for every day
during which the failure continues.
Payment of unpaid or unclaimed dividend.
205B. Payment of unpaid or unclaimed dividend. Any person claiming to be
entitled to any money transferred under sub- section (5) of section 205A to
the general revenue account of the Central Government, may apply to the
Central Government for an order for payment of the money claimed; and the
Central Government may, if satisfied, whether on a certificate by the company
or otherwise, that such person is entitled to the whole or any part of the
money claimed, make an order for the payment to that person of the sum due to
him after taking such security from him as it may think fit.]
206. Dividend not to be paid except to registered shareholders or to their order or to their bankers.
(1) No dividend shall be paid by a company in respect of any share therein,
except-
(a) to the registered holder of such share or to his order or to his bankers;
or
(b) in case a share warrant has been issued in respect of the share in
pursuance of section 114, to the bearer of such warrant or to his bankers.
(2) Nothing contained in sub- section (1) shall be deemed to require the
bankers of a registered shareholder to make a separate application to the
company for the payment of the dividend.
Right to dividend rights shares and bonus shares to be help in abeyancepending
registration of transfer of shares.
206A. 2 Right to dividend rights shares and bonus shares to be held in
abeyance pending registration of transfer of shares. Where any instrument of
transfer of shares has been delivered to any company for registration and the
transfer of such shares has not been registered by the company, it shall,
notwithstanding anything contained in any other provision of this Act,-
(a) transfer the dividend in relation to such shares to the special account
referred to in section 205A unless the company is authorised by the registered
holder of such share in writing to pay such dividend to the transferee
specified in such instrument of transfer; and
(b) keep in abeyance in relation to such shares any offer of rights shares
under clause (a) of sub- section (1) of section 81 and any issue of fully
paid- up bonus shares in pursuance of sub- section (3) of section 205.]
207. Penalty for failure to distribute dividends within forty- two days. Where a dividend has been declared by a company but has not been paid, or the warrant in respect thereof has not been posted, within 1 forty- two days] from the date of the declaration, to any shareholder entitled to the payment of the dividend, every director of the company; its managing agent or secretaries and treasurers; and where the managing agent is a firm or body corporate, every partner in the firm and every director of the body corporate; and where the secretaries and treasurers are a firm, every partner in the firm and where they are a body corporate, every director thereof; shall, if he is knowingly a party to the default, be punishable with simple imprisonment for a term which may extend to seven days and shall also be liable to fine: Provided that no offence shall be deemed to have been committed within the meaning of the foregoing provision in the following cases, namely:-
(a) where the dividend could not be paid by reason of the operation of any
law;
1\. Ins. by Act 31 of 1988, s. 28 (w. e. f. 15- 6- 1988 ).
2\. Subs. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 59, for" three months".
(b) where a shareholder has given directions to the company regarding the
payment of the dividend and those directions cannot be complied with;
(c) where there is a dispute regarding the right to receive the dividend;
(d) where the dividend has been lawfully adjusted by the company against any
sum due to it from the shareholder; or
(e) where, for any other reason, the failure to pay the dividend or to post
the warrant within the period aforesaid was not due to any default on the part
of the company. Payments of interest out of capital
208. Power of company to pay interest out of capital in certain cases.
(1) Where any shares in a company are issued for the purpose of raising money
to defray the expenses of the construction of any work or building, or the
provision of any plant, which cannot be made profitable for a lengthy period,
the company may-
(a) pay interest on so much of that share capital as is for the time being
paid up, for the period and subject to the conditions and restrictions
mentioned in sub- sections (2) to (7); and
(b) charge the sum so paid by way of interest, to capital as part of the cost
of construction of the work or building or the provision of the plant.
(2) No such payment shall be made unless it is authorised by the articles or
by a special resolution.
(3) No such payment, whether authorised by the articles or by special
resolution, shall be made without the previous sanction of the Central
Government. The grant of such sanction shall be conclusive evidence, for the
purposes of this section, that the shares of the company, in respect of which
such sanction is given, have been issued for a purpose specified in this
section.
(4) Before sanctioning any such payment, the Central Government may, at the
expense of the company, appoint a person to inquire into, and report to the
Central Government on, the circumstances of the case; and may, before making
the appointment, require the company to give security for the payment of the
costs of the inquiry.
(5) The payment of interest shall be made only for such period as may be
determined by the Central Government; and that period shall in no case extend
beyond the close of the half year next after the half- year during which the
work or building has been actually completed or the plant provided.
(6) The rate of interest shall in no case exceed four per cent. per annum or
such other rate as the Central Government may, by notifi- cation in the
Official Gazette, direct.
(7) The payment of the interest shall not operate as a reduction of the amount
paid up on the shares in respect of which it is paid.
(8) Nothing in this section shall affect any company to which the Indian
Railway Companies Act, 1895 , (10 of 1895 .) or the Indian Tramways Act, 1902
, (4 of 1902 .) applies. Accounts
209. Books of account to be kept by company. 1
(1) Every company shall keep at its registered office proper books of account
with respect to-
(a) all sums of money received and expended by the company and the matters in
respect of which the receipt and expenditure take place;
(b) all sales and purchases of goods by the company; 2
(c) the assets and liabilities of the company; 3 and]
(d) 3 in the case of a company pertaining to any class of companies engaged in
production, processing, manufacturing or mining activities, such particulars
relating to utilisation of material or labour or to other items of cost as may
be prescribed, if such class of companies is required by the Central
Government to include such particulars in the books of Account:] Provided that
all or any of the books of account aforesaid may be kept at such other place
in India as the Board of directors may decide and when the Board of directors
so decides, the company shall, within seven days of the decision, file with
the Registrar a notice in writing giving the full address of that other
place.]
(2) Where a company has a branch office, whether in or outside India, the
company shall be deemed to have complied with the provisions of sub- section
(1), if proper books of account relating to the
1\. Sub. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 60, for sub- section (1).
2\. The word" and" omitted by Act 31 of 1965, s. 20 (w. e. f. 15- 10- 1965 ).
3\. Ins. by s. 20, ibid. (w. e. f. 15- 10- 1965 ).
transactions effected at the branch office are kept at that office and proper
summarised returns, made up to dates at intervals of not more than three
months, are sent by the branch office to the company at its registered office
or the other place referred to in subsection (1).
(3) 1 For the purposes of sub- sections (1) and (2), proper books of account
shall not be deemed to be kept with respect to the matters specified therein,-
(a) if there are not kept such books as are necessary to give a true and fair
view of the state of affairs of the company or branch office, as the case may
be, and to explain its transactions; and
(b) if such books are not kept on accrual basis and accord- ing to the double
entry system of accounting.]
(4) 2 2 The books of account and other books and papers shall be open to
inspection by any director during business hours. 3
(4A) 4 The books of account of every company relating to a period of not less
than eight years immediately preceding the current year 4 together with the
vouchers relevant to any entry in such books, of account] shall be preserved
in good order: Provided that in the case of a company incorporated less than
eight years before the current year, the books of account for the entire
period preceding the current year 5 together with the vouchers relevant to any
entry in such books of account] shall be so preserved.]
(5) If any of the persons referred to in sub- section (6) fails to take all
reasonable steps to secure compliance by the company with the requirements of
this section, or has by his own wilful act been the cause of any default by
the company thereunder, he shall, in respect of each offence, be punishable
with 6 imprisonment for a term. which may extend to six months, or with fine
which may extend to one thousand rupees, or with both]: Provided that in any
proceedings against a person in respect of an offence under this section
consisting of a failure to take reasonable steps to secure compliance by the
company with the requirements of
1\. Subs. by Act 31 of 1988, s. 29 (w. e. f. 15- 6- 1988 ).
2\. Subs. by Act 31 of 1965, s. 20, for sub- section (4) (w. e. f, 15- 10-
1965 ).
3\. The brackets and letter" (a)" and (clauses (b), (c) and (d) omitted by Act
41 of 1974, s. 20) (w. e. f. 1- 2 1975 ).
4\. Ins. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 60.
5\. Ins. by Act 31 of 1965, s. 20 (w. e. f. 15- 10- 1965 ).
6\. Subs. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 60, for" fine which may extend lo one thousand
rupees"
this section, it shall be a defence to prove 1 that a competent and reliable
person was charged with the duty of seeing that those requirements were
complied with and was in a position to discharge that duty: 2 Provided further
that no person shall be sentenced to imprison- ment for any such offence
unless it was committed wilfully.]
(6) The persons referred to in sub- section (5) are the following, namely:-
(a) where the company has a managing agent, 3 secretaries and treasurers or
managing director or manager], such managing agent, 3 secretaries and
treasurers or managing director or manager] 4 and all officers and other
employees and agents[ as defined in sub- section (6) of section 240 but
excluding bankers, auditors and legal advisers] of such managing agent or
secretaries and treasurers];
(b) where such managing agent or secretaries and treasurers are a firm, every
partner in the firm;
(c) where such managing agent or secretaries and treasurers are a body
corporate, every director of such body corporate; 5
(d) where the company has neither a managing agent nor 6 secretaries and
treasurers nor managing director nor manager, every director of the company];
4 and]
(e) 4 whether or not a company has a managing agent or secre- taries and
treasurers, every officer and other employee and agent (defined as aforesaid)
of the company.]
(7) If any person, not being a person referred to in sub- section (6), having
been charged by the managing agent, secretaries and treasurers, 2 managing
director, manager] or Board of directors, as
1\. The words" that he had reasonable ground to believe, and did believe",
omitted by Act 65 of 1960, s. 60.
2\. Ins. by s. 60, ibid.
3\. Subs. by s. 60, ibid, for" or secretaries and treasurers".
4\. Ins. by Act 31 of 1965, s. 20 (w. e. f. 15- 10- 1965 ).
5\. The word" and" omitted by s. 20, ibid. (w e. f. 15- 10- 1965 ).
6\. Subs. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 60, for" secretaries and treasurers, every
director of the company".
the case may be, with the duty of seeing that the requirements of this section
are complied with, makes default in doing so, he shall, in respect of each
offence, be punishable with 1 imprisonment for a term which may extend to six
months, or with fine which may extend to one thousand rupees, or with both].
Inspection of books of account, etc., of companies.
209A. 2 Inspection of books of account, etc., of companies
(1) The books of account and other books and papers of every company shall be
open to inspection during business hours-
(i) by the Registrar, or
(ii) by such officer of Government as may be authorised by the Central
Government in this behalf: Provided that such inspection may be made without
giving any previous notice to the company or any officer thereof.
(2) It shall be the duty of every director, other officer or employee of the
company to produce to the person making inspection under sub- section (1), all
such books of account and other books and papers of the company in his custody
or control and to furnish him with any statement, information or explanation
relating to the affairs of the company as the said person may require of him
within such time and at such place as he may specify.
(3) It shall also be the duty of every director, other officer or employee of
the company to give to the person making inspection under this section all
assistance in connection with the inspection which the company may be
reasonably expected to give.
(4) The person making the inspection under this section may, during the course
of inspection,-
(i) make or cause to be made copies of books of account and other books and
papers, or
(ii) place or cause to be placed any marks of identification thereon in token
of the inspection having been made.
(5) Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in
force or any contract to the contrary, any person making an inspection under
this section shall have the same powers, as are vested in a civil court under
the Code of Civil Procedure,
1\. Subs. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 60, for" fine which may extend to one thousand
rupees".
2\. Ins. by Act 41 of 1974, s. 21 (w. e. f. 1- 2- 1975 ).
1908 (5 of 1908 ), while trying a suit, in respect of the following matters,
namely:-
(i) the discovery and production of books of account and other documents, at
such place and such time as may be specified by such person;
(ii) summoning and enforcing the attendance of persons and examining them on
oath;
(iii) inspection of any books, registers and other documents of the company at
any place.
(6) Where an inspection of the books of account and other books and papers of
the company has been made under this section, the person making the inspection
shall make a report to the Central Government.
(7) Any officer authorised to make an inspection under this section shall have
all the powers that a Registrar has under this Act in relation to the making
of inquiries.
(8) If default is made in complying with the provisions of this section, every
officer of the company who is in default shall be punishable with fine which
shall not be less than five thousand rupees, and also with imprisonment for a
term not exceeding one year.
(9) Where a director or any other officer of a company has been convicted of
an offence under this section he shall, on and from the date on which he is so
convicted, be deemed to have vacated his office as such and on such vacation
of office, shall be disqualified for holding such office in any company, for a
period of five years from such date.]
210. Annual accounts and balance sheet.
(1) At every annual general meeting of a company held in pursuance of section
166, the Board of directors of the company shall lay before the company-
(a) a balance sheet as at the end of the period specified in sub- section (3);
and
(b) a profit and loss account for that period.
(2) In the case of a company not carrying on business for profit, an income
and expenditure account shall be laid before the company
at its annual general meeting instead of a profit and loss account, and all
references to" profit and loss account"," profit" and" loss" in this section
and elsewhere in this Act, shall be construed, in relation to such a company,
as references respectively to the" income and expenditure account"," the
excess of income over expenditure", and" the excess of expenditure over
income".
(3) The profit and loss account shall relate-
(a) in the case of the first annual general meeting of the company, to the
period beginning with the incorporation of the company and ending with a day
which shall not
precede the day of the meeting by more than nine months; and
(b) 1 in the case of any subsequent annual general meeting of the company, to
the period beginning with the day immediately after the period for which the
account was last submitted and ending with a day which shall not precede the
day of the meeting by more than six months, or in cases where an extension of
time has been granted for holding the meeting under the second proviso to
subsection (1) of section 166, by more than six months and the extension so
granted.]
(4) The period to which the account aforesaid relates is referred to in this
Act as a" financial year"; and it may be less or more than a calendar year,
but it shall not exceed fifteen months: Provided that it may extend to
eighteen months where special permission has been granted in that behalf by
the Registrar.
(5) If any person, being a director of a company, fails to take all reasonable
steps to comply with the provisions of this section, he shall, in respect of
each offence, be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to
six months, or with fine which may extend to one thousand rupees, or with
both: Provided that in any proceedings against a person in respect of an
offence under this section, it shall be a defence to prove 2 that a competent
and reliable person was charged with the duty of seeing that the provisions of
this section were complied with and was in a position to discharge that duty:
Provided further that no person shall be sentenced to imprison- ment for any
such offence unless it was committed wilfully.
(6) If any person, not being a director of the company, having been charged by
the Board of directors with the duty of seeing that the provisions of this
section are complied with, makes default in doing so, he shall, in respect of
each offence, be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to
six months, or with fine which may extend to one thousand rupees, or with
both: Provided that no person shall be sentenced to imprisonment for any such
offence unless it was committed wilfully.
1\. Subs. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 61, for cl. (b).
2\. The words" that he had reasonable ground to believe, and did believe"
omitted by s. 61, ibid.
211. Form and contents of balance sheet and profit and loss account. 1
(1) Every balance sheet of a company shall give a true and fair view of the
state of affairs of the company as at the end of the financial year and shall,
subject to the provisions of this section, be in the form set out in Part I of
Schedule VI, or as near thereto as circumstances admit or in such other form
as may be approved by the Central Government either generally or in any
particular case; and in preparing the balance sheet due regard shall be had,
as far as may be, to the general instructions for preparation of balance sheet
under the heading" Notes" at the end of that Part: Provided that nothing
contained in this subsection shall apply to any insurance or banking company
or any company engaged in the generation or supply of electricity or to any
other class of company for which a form of balance sheet has been specified in
or under the Act governing such class of company.]
(2) Every profit and loss account of a company shall give a true and fair view
of the profit or loss of the company for the financial year and shall, subject
as aforesaid, comply with the requirements of Part II of Schedule VI, so far
as they are applicable thereto: Provided that nothing contained in this sub-
section shall apply to any insurance or banking company 2 or any company
engaged in the generation or supply of electricity], or to any other class of
company for which a form of profit and loss account has been specified in or
under the Act governing such class of company.
(3) The Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette,
exempt any class of companies from compliance with any of the requirements in
Schedule VI if, in its opinion, it is necessary to grant the exemption in the
I[ public interest]. Any such exemption may be granted either unconditionally
or subject to such conditions as may be specified in the notification.
(4) The Central Government may, on the application or with the consent of the
Board of directors of the company, by order, modify in relation to that
company any of the requirements of this Act as to the matters to be stated in
the company' s balance sheet or profit and loss account for the purpose of
adapting them to the circumstances of the company.
(5) The balance sheet and the profit and loss account of a com- pany shall not
be treated as not disclosing a true and fair view of the
1\. Subs. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 62, for sub- section (1).
2\. Ins. by s. 62, ibid.
3\. Subs. by s. 62 ibid. for" national interest"
state of affairs of the company, merely by reason of the fact that they do not
disclose-
(i) in the case of an insurance company, any matters which are not required to
be disclosed by the Insurance Act, 1938 ; (4 of 1838 .)
(ii) in the case of a banking company, any matters which are not required to
be disclosed by the Banking Companies Act, 1949 ; (10 of 1994 )
(iii) in the case of a company engaged in the generation or supply of
electricity, any matters which are not required to be disclosed by 1 both the
Indian Electricity Act, 1910 , (9 of 1910 ) and the Electricity (Supply) Act,
1948 ]; (54 of 1948 .)
(iv) in the case of a company governed by any other special Act for the time
being in force, any matters which are not required to be disclosed by that
special Act; or
(v) in the case of any company, any matters which are not required to be
disclosed by virtue of the provisions con- tained in Schedule VI or by virtue
of a notification issued under sub- section (3) or an order issued under,
subsection (4).
(6) For the purposes of this section, except where the context otherwise
requires, any reference to a balance sheet or profit and loss account shall
include any notes thereon or documents annexed thereto, giving information
required by this Act, and allowed by this Act to be given in the form of such
notes or documents.
(7) If any such person as is referred to in sub- section (6) of section 209
fails to take all reasonable steps to secure compliance by the company, as
respects any accounts laid before the company in general meeting, with the
provisions of this section and with the other requirements of this Act as to
the matters to be stated in the accounts, he shall, in respect of each
offence, be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may I extend to six
months, or with fine which may extend to one thousand rupees, or with both:
Provided that in any proceedings against a person in respect of an offence
under this section, it shall be a defence to prove 2 that a competent and
reliable person was charged with the duty of seeing that the provisions of
this section and the other requirements
1\. Subs. by Act 65 of 1960; s. 62, for" the Electricity (Supply) Act, 1948
(54 of 1948 )".
2\. The words" that he had reasonable ground to believe and did believe"
omitted by S. 62, ibid.
aforesaid were complied with and was in a position to discharge that duty:
Provided further that no person shall be sentenced to imprison- ment for any
such offence unless it was committed wilfully.
(8) If any person, not being a person referred to in sub- section (6) of
section 209, having been charged by the managing agent, secretaries and
treasurers, 1 managing director or manager,] or Board of directors, as the
case may be, with the duty of seeing that the provisions of this section and
the other requirements aforesaid are complied with, makes default in doing so,
he shall, in respect of each offence, be punishable with imprisonment for a
term which may extend to six months or with fine which may extend to one
thousand rupees, or with both: Provided that no person shall be sentenced to
imprisonment for any such offence unless it was committed wilfully.
212. Balance sheet of holding company to include certain particulars as to its subsidiaries.
(1) There shall be attached to the balance sheet of a holding company having a
subsidiary or subsidiaries at the end of the financial year as at which the
holding company' s balance sheet is made out, the following documents in
respect of such subsidiary or of each such subsidiary, as the case may be:-
(a) a copy of the balance sheet of the subsidiary;
(b) a copy of its profit and loss account;
(c) a copy of the report of its Board of directors
(d) a copy of the report of its auditors;
(e) a statement of the holding company' s interest in the subsidiary as
specified in sub- section (3); the statement referred to in sub- section (5),
if any; and
(g) the report referred to in sub- section (6), if any.
(2) 2 (a) The balance sheet referred to in clause (a) of sub- section (1)
shall be made out in accordance with the requirements of this Act,-
(i) as at the end of the financial year of the subsidiary, where such
financial year coincides with the financial year of the holding company;
1\. Ins. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 62.
2\. Subs. by s. 63, ibid., for cl. (a).
(ii) as at the end of the financial year of the subsidiary last before that of
the holding company where the financial year of the subsidiary does not
coincide with that of the holding company;]
(b) The profit and loss account and the reports of the Board of directors and
of the auditors, referred to in clauses (b), (c) and (d) of subsection (1),
shall be made out, in accordance with the require- ments of this Act, for the
financial year of the subsidiary referred to in clause (a).
(c) 1 Where the financial year of the subsidiary does not coincide with that
of the holding company, the financial year aforesaid] of the subsidiary shall
not end on a day which precedes the day on which the holding company' s
financial year ends by more than six months.
(d) Where the financial year of a subsidiary is shorter in duration than that
of its holding company, references to the financial year of the subsidiary in
clauses (a), (b) and (c) shall be construed as references to two or more
financial years of the subsidiary the duration of which, in the aggregate, is
not less than the duration of the holding company' s financial year.
(3) The statement referred to in clause (e) of sub- section (1) shall specify-
(a) the extent of the holding company' s interest in the subsidiary at the end
of the financial year or of the last of the financial years of the subsidiary
referred to in sub- section (2);
(b) the net aggregate amount, so far as it concerns members of the holding
company and is not dealt with in the company' s accounts, of the subsidiary' s
profits after deducting its losses or vice versa-
(i) for the financial year or years of the subsidiary aforesaid; and
(ii) for the previous financial years of the subsidiary since it became the
holding company' s subsidiary;
(c) the net aggregate amount of the profits of the subsidiary after deducting
its losses or vice versa-
(i) for the financial year or years of the subsidiary aforesaid; and
1\. Subs. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 63, for" the financial year aforesaid".
(ii) for the previous financial years of the subsidiary since it became the
holding company' s subsidiary; so far as those profits are dealt with, or
provision is made for those losses, in the company' s accounts.
(4) Clauses (b) and (c) of sub- section (3) shall apply only to profits and
losses of the subsidiary which may properly be treated in the holding company'
s accounts as revenue profits or losses, and the profits or losses
attributable to any shares in a subsidiary for the time being held by the
holding company or any other of its subsi- diaries shall not (for that or any
other purpose) be treated as afore- said so far as they are profits or losses
for the period before the date on or as from which the shares were acquired by
the company or any of its subsidiaries, except that they may in a proper case
be so treated where-
(a) the company itself the subsidiary of another body corporate; and
(b) the shares were acquired from that body corporate or a subsidiary of it;
and for the purpose of determining whether any profits or losses are to be
treated as profits or losses for the said period, the profit or loss for any
financial year of the subsidiary may, if it is not practicable to apportion it
with reasonable accuracy by reference to the facts, be treated as accruing
from day to day during that year and be apportioned accordingly.
(5) Where the financial year or years of a subsidiary referred to in sub-
section (2) do not coincide with the financial year of the holding company, a
statement containing information on the following matters shall also be
attached to the balance sheet of the holding company:-
(a) whether there has been any, and, if so, what change in the holding
company' s interest in the subsidiary between the end of the financial year or
of the last of the financial years of the subsidiary and the end of the
holding company' s financial year;
(b) details of any material changes which have occurred between the end of the
financial year or of the last of the financial years of the subsidiary and the
end of the holding company' s financial year in respect of-
(i) the subsidiary' s fixed assets
(ii) its investments
(iii) the moneys lent by it;
(iv) the moneys borrowed by it for any purpose other than that of meeting
current liabilities.
(6) If, for any reason, the Board of directors of the holding company is
unable to obtain information on any of the matters required to be specified by
sub- section (4), a report in writing to that effect shall be attached to the
balance sheet of the holding company.
(7) The documents referred to in clauses (e), (f) and (g) of sub- section (1)
shall be signed by the persons by whom the balance sheet of the holding
company is required to be signed.
(8) The Central Government may, on the application or with the consent of the
Board of directors of the company, direct that in relation to any subsidiary,
the provisions of this section shall not apply, or shall apply only to such
extent as may- be specified in the direction.
(9) If any such person as is referred to in sub- section (6) of section 209
fails to take all reasonable steps to comply with the provisions of this
section, he shall, in respect of each offence, be punishable with imprisonment
for a term which may extend to six months, or with fine which may extend to
one thousand rupees, or with both: Provided that in any proceedings against a
person in respect of an offence under this section, it shall be a defence to
prove 1 that a competent and reliable person was charged with the duty of
seeing that the provisions of this section were complied with and was in a
position to discharge that duty: Provided further that no person shall be
sentenced to imprison- ment for any such offence unless it was committed
wilfully.
(10) If any person, not being a person referred to in sub- section (6) of
section 209, having been charged by the managing agent, secretaries and
treasures, 2 managing director, manager,] or Board of directors, as the case
may be, with the duty of seeing that the provisions of this section are
complied with, makes default in doing so, he shall, in respect of each
offence, be punishable with
1\. The words" that he had reasonable ground to believe, and did believe,"
omitted by Act 65 of 1960, s. 63.
2\. Ins. by s. 63, ibid.
imprisonment for a term which may extend to six months, or with fine which may
extend to one thousand rupees, or with both: Provided that no person shall be
sentenced to imprisonment for any such offence unless it was committed
wilfully.
213. Financial year of holding company and subsidiary.
(1) Where it appears to the Central Government desirable for a holding company
or a holding company' s subsidiary, to extend its financial year so that the
subsidiary' s financial year may end with that of the holding company, and for
that purpose to postpone the submission of the relevant accounts to a general
meeting, the Central Government may, on the application or with the consent of
the Board of directors of the company whose financial year is to be extended,
direct that in the case of that company, the submission of accounts to a
general meeting, the holding of an annual general meeting or the making of an
annual return, shall not be required to be submitted, held or made, earlier
than the dates specified in the direction, notwithstanding anything to the
contrary in this Act or in any other Act for the time being in force.
(2) The Central Government shall, on the application of the Board of directors
of a holding company or a holding company' s sub- sidiary, exercise the powers
conferred on that Government by sub- section (1) if it is necessary so to do,
in order to secure that the end of the financial year of the subsidiary does
not precede the end of the holding company' s financial year by more than six
months, where that is not the case at the commencement of this Act, or at the
date on which the relationship of holding company and subsidiary comes into
existence where that date is later than the commencement of this Act.
214. Rights of holding company' s representatives and members.
(1) A holding company may, by resolution, authorise representatives named in
the resolution to inspect the books of account kept by any of its
subsidiaries; and the books of account of any such subsidiary shall be open to
inspection by those representatives at any time during business hours.
(2) The rights conferred by section 235 upon members of a com- pany may be
exercised, in respect of any subsidiary, by members of the holding company as
if they alone were members of the subsidiary.
215. Authentication of balance sheet and profit and loss account.
(1) Save as provided by sub- section (2), every balance sheet and every profit
and loss account of a company shall be signed on behalf of the Board of
directors-
(i) in the case of a banking company, by the persons specified in clause (a)
or clause (b), as the case may be, of subsection (2) of section 29 of the
Banking Companies Act, 1949 ; (10 of 1949 ).
(ii) in the case of any other company, by its, managing agent, secretaries and
treasurers, manager or secretary, if any, and by not less than two directors
of the company one of whom shall be a managing director where there is one.
(2) In the case of a company not being a banking company, when only one of its
directors is for the time being in India, the balance sheet and the profit and
loss account shall be signed by such director; but in such a case there shall
be attached to the balance sheet and the profit and loss account a statement
signed by him explaining the reason for non- compliance with the provisions of
subsection (1).
(3) The balance sheet and the profit and loss account shall be approved by the
Board of directors before they are signed on behalf of the Board in accordance
with the provisions of this section and before they are submitted to the
auditors for their report thereon.
216. Profit and loss account to be annexed and auditors' report to be attached to balance sheet. The profit and loss account shall be annexed to the balance sheet and the auditors' report 1 (including the auditors' separate special or supplementary report, if any)] shall be attached thereto.
217. Board' s report.
(1) There shall be attached to every balance sheet laid before a company in
general meeting, a report by its Board of directors, with respect to-
(a) the state of the company' s affairs;
(b) the amounts, if any, which it proposes to carry to any reserves 2 in such
balance sheet 3
1\. Ins. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 64.
2\. The word" either" omitted by s. 65, ibid.
3\. The words" or in a subsequent balance sheet; and" omitted by s. 65, ibid.
(c) the amount, if any, which it recommends should be paid by way of dividend;
(d) 1 material changes and commitments, if any; affecting the financial
position of the company which have occurred between the end of the financial
year of the company to which the balance sheet relates and the date of the
report.]
(e) 2 the conservation of energy technology absorption, foreign exchange
earnings and outgo, in such manner as may be prescribed.]
(2) The Board' s report shall, so far as is material for the appreciation of
the state of the company' s affairs by its members and will not in the Board'
s opinion be harmful to the business of the company or of any of its
subsidiaries, deal with any changes which have occurred during the financial
year-
(a) in the nature of the company' s business:
(b) in the company' s subsidiaries or in the nature of the business carried on
by them; and
(c) generally in the classes of business in which the company has an interest.
(2A) 3 (a) The Board' s report shall also include a statement showing the name
of every employee of the company who-
(i) if employed throughout the financial year, was in receipt of remuneration
for that year which, in the aggregate, was not less than 4 such sum as may be
prescribed]; or
(ii) if employed for a part of the financial year, was in receipt of
remuneration for any part of that year, at a rate which, in the aggregate, was
not less than 4 such sum per month as may be prescribed; or]
(iii) 5 if employed throughout the financial year or part thereof, was in
receipt of remuneration in that year which, in the aggregate, or as the case
may be, at a rate which, in the aggregate, is in excess of that drawn by the
managing director or whole- time director or manager and holds by himself or
along with his spouse and dependent children, not less than two per cent., of
the equity shares of the company.
(b) The statement referred to in clause (a) shall also indicate,-
(i) whether any such employee is a relative of any director or manager of the
company and if so, the name of such director, and
(ii) such other particulars as may be prescribed. Explanation.-" Remuneration"
has the meaning assigned to it in the Explanation to section 198.]
1\. Ins. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 65.
2\. Added by Act 31 of 1988, s. 30 (w. e. f. 1. 4. 1989 ).
3\. Ins. by Act 41 of 1974, s. 22 (w. e. f. 1- 2- 1975 ).
4\. Subs. by Act 31 of 1988, s. 30 (w. e. f. 15- 6- 1988 ).
5\. Ins. by s. 30, ibid. (w. e. f. 15. 6. 1988 ).
(3) The Board shall also be bound to give the fullest information and
explanations in its report aforesaid, or in cases falling under the proviso to
section 222, in an addendum to that report, on every reservation,
qualification or adverse remark contained in the auditors' report.
(4) The Board' s report and any addendum thereto shall be signed by its
chairman if he is authorised in that behalf by the Board; and where he is not
so authorised, shall be signed by such number of directors as are required to
sign the balance sheet and the profit and loss account of the company by
virtue of sub- sections (1) and (2) of section 215.
(5) If any person, being a director of a company, fails to take all reasonable
steps to comply with the provisions of subsections (1) to (3), or being the
chairman, signs the Board' s report otherwise than in conformity with the
provisions of sub- section (4), he shall, in respect of each offence, be
punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to six months, or
with fine which may extend to two thousand rupees, or with both: Provided that
no person shall be sentenced to imprisonment for any such offence unless it
was committed wilfully: Provided further that in any proceedings against a
person in respect of an offence under sub- section (1), it shall be a defence
to
prove 1 that a competent and reliable person was charged with the duty of
seeing that the provisions of that sub- section were complied with and was in
a position to discharge that duty.
(6) If any person, not being a director, having been charged by the Board of
directors with the duty of seeing that the provisions of sub- sections (1) to
(3) are complied with, makes default in doing so, he shall, in respect of each
offence, be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to six
months, or with fine which may extend to two thousand rupees, or with both:
Provided that no person shall be sentenced to imprisonment for any such
offence unless it was committed wilfully.
218. Penalty for improper issue, circulation or publication of balance sheet or profit and loss account. (a) If any copy of a balance sheet or profit and loss account which has not been signed as required by section 215 is issued, circulated or published; or
(b) If any copy of a balance sheet is issued, circulated or published without
there being annexed or attached thereto, as the case may be, a copy each of
(i) the profit and loss account, (ii) any accounts, reports or statements
which, by virtue of section 212, are required to be attached to the balance
sheet, (iii) the auditors' report, and (iv) the Board' s report referred to in
section 217 the company, and every officer of the company who is in default,
shall be punishable with fine which may extend to five hundred rupees.
219. Right of member to copies of balance sheet and auditors' report.
(1) A copy of every balance sheet (including the profit and loss account, the
auditors' report and every other document required by law to be annexed[ or
attached,, as the case may be, to the balance sheet) which is to be laid
before a company in general meeting shall, not less than twenty- one days,
before the date of the meeting, be sent to every member of the company, 2 to
every trustee for the holders of any debentures issued by the company, whether
such member or trustee is or is not entitled to have notices of general
meetings of the company sent to him, and to all persons other than such
members or trustees, being persons so entitled:]
1\. The words" that he had reasonable ground to believe, and did believe,"
omitted by Act 65 of 1960, s. 65.
2\. Subs. by Act 31 of 1988, s. 31 (w. e. f. 17. 4. 1989 )
Provided that-
(a) in the case of a company not having a share capital, this sub- section
shall not require the sending of a copy of the documents aforesaid to a
member, or holder of debentures, of the company who is not entitled to have
notices of general meetings of the company sent to him;
(b) this sub- section shall not require a copy of the documents aforesaid to
be sent-
(i) to a member, or holder of debentures, of the company, who is not entitled
to have notices of general meetings of the company sent to him and of whose
address the company is unaware;
(ii) to more than one of the joint holders of any shares or debentures none of
whom is entitled to have such notices sent to him; 1
(iii) in the case of joint holders of any shares or debentures some of whom
are and some of whom are not entitled to have such notices sent to them, to
those who are not so entitled; 1
(iv) 1 in the case of a company whose shares are listed on a recognised stock
exchange, if the copies of the documents aforesaid are made available for
inspection at its registered office during working hours for a period of
twenty- one days before the date of the meeting and a statement containing the
salient features of such documents in the prescribed form or copies of the
documents aforesaid, as the company may deem fit, is sent to every member of
the company and to every trustee for the holders of any debentures issued by
the company not less than twenty- one days before the date of the meeting]
(c) if the copies of the documents aforesaid are sent less than twenty- one
days before the date of the meeting, they shall, notwithstanding that fact, be
deemed to have been duly sent if it is so agreed by all the members entitled
to vote at the meeting.
(2) 2 Any member or holder of debentures of a company and any person from whom
the company has accepted a sum of money by way of deposit shall, on demand, be
entitled to be furnished free of cost, with a copy of the last balance sheet
of the company and of every document required by law to be annexed or attached
thereto, including the profit and loss account and the auditors' report.]
(3) If default is made in complying with sub- section (1), the company, and
every officer of the company who is in default, shall be punishable with fine
which may extend to five hundred rupees.
(4) If, when any person makes a demand for a copy of any document with which
he is entitled to be furnished by virtue of sub- section (2), default is made
in complying with the demand within seven days after the making thereof, the
company, and every officer
1\. Omitted by Act 31 of 1988, s. 31 (w. e. f 17. 4. 1989 )
2\. Subs. by s. 31, ibid (w. e. f. 17- 4- 1989 ).
of the company who is in default, shall be punishable with fine which may
extend to five hundred rupees, unless it is proved that that person had
already made a demand for and been furnished with a copy of the document. The
1 Company Law Board] may, also by order, direct that the copy demanded shall
forthwith be furnished to the person concerned.
(5) Sub- sections (1) to (4) shall not apply in relation to a balance sheet of
a private company laid before it before the commencement of this Act; and in
such a case the right of any person to have sent to him or to be furnished
with a copy of the balance sheet, and the liability of the company in respect
of a failure to satisfy that right, shall be the same as they would have been
if this Act had not been passed.
220. Three copies of balance sheet, etc., to be filed with Registrar.
(1) After the balance sheet and the profit and loss account have been laid
before a company at an annual general meeting as aforesaid, there shall be
filed with the Registrar 2 within thirty days from, the date on- which the
balance sheet and the profit and loss account were so laid 3 , or where the
annual general meeting of a company for any year has not been held, there
shall be filed with the Registrar within thirty days from the latest day on or
before which that meeting should have been held in accordance with the
provisions of this Act.]]
(a) 4 three copies of the balance sheet and the profit and loss account,
signed by the managing director, managing agent, secretaries and treasurers,
manager or secretary of the company, or if there be none of these, by a
director of the company, together with three copies of all documents which are
required by this Act to be annexed or attached to such balance sheet or profit
and loss account: 5 Provided that in the case of a private company, copies of
the balance sheet and copies of the] profit and loss account shall be filed
with the Registrar separately: 6
1\. Subs. by Act 31 of 1988, s. 31 (w. e. f. 31. 5. 1991 ).
2\. Subs. by Act 31 of 1965, s. 62 and Sch., for certain words (w. e. f. 15-
10- 1965 ).
3\. Ins. by Act 46 of 1977, s. 5.
4\. The words" in the case of a public company" omitted by Act 65 of 1960, s.
66.
5\. Ins. by s. 66, ibid.
6\. Cl. (b) omitted bys. 66, ibid.
1 Provided further that,-
(i) in the case of a private company which is not a subsidiary of a public
company, or
(ii) in the case of a private company of which the entire paid- up share
capital is held by one or more bodies corporate incorporated outside India, or
(iii) in the case of a company which becomes a public company by virtue of
section 43A, if the Central Government directs that it is not in the public
interest that any person other than a member of the company shall be entitled
to inspect, or obtain copies of, the profit and loss account of the company,
no person other than a member of the company concerned shall be entitled to
inspect, or obtain copies of, the profit and loss account of that company
under section 610.]
(2) If the annual general meeting of a 2 company before which a balance sheet
is laid as aforesaid does not adopt the balance sheet 3 , 4 , or is adjourned
without adopting the balance sheet,] or, if the annual general meeting of a
company for any year has not been held], a statement of that fact and of the
reasons therefor shall be annexed to the balance sheet and to the copies
thereof required to be filed with the Registrar.
(3) If default is made in complying with the requirements of sub- sections (1)
and (2), the company, and every officer of the com- pany who is in default,
shall be liable to the like punishment as is provided by section 162 for a
default in complying with the provisions of sections 159, 160 or 161.
221. Duty of officer to make disclosure of payments, etc.
(1) Where any particulars or information is required to be given in the
balance sheet or profit and loss account of a company or in any document
required to be annexed or attached thereto, it shall be the duty of the
concerned officer of the company to furnish without delay to the company, and
also to the company' s auditor whenever he so requires, those particulars or
that information in as full a manner as possible.
1\. Ins. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 66.
2\. The words" Public or private" omitted by s. 66, ibid.
3\. Ins. by Act 46 of 1977, s. 5.
4\. Ins. by Act 31 of 1988, s. 32 (w. e. f. 15. 6. 1988 )
(2) Where the officer concerned is a firm or body corporate acting as managing
agent or as secretaries and treasurers, the duty aforesaid shall extend to
every partner in the firm, or to every director of the body corporate, as the
case may be.
(3) The particulars or information referred to in sub- section (1) may relate
to payments made to any director, managing agent, secretaries and treasurers,
or other person by any other company, body corporate, firm or person.
(4) If any person knowingly makes default in performing the duty cast on him
by the foregoing provisions of this section, he shall be punishable with
imprisonment which may extend to six months, or with fine which may extend to
five thousand rupees, or with both.
222. Construction of references to documents annexed to accounts. References in this Act to documents annexed or required to be annexed to a company' s accounts or any of them shall not include the Board' s report, the auditors' report or any document attached or required to be attached to those accounts: Provided that any information which is required by this Act to be given in the accounts, and is allowed by it to be given in a statement annexed to the accounts, may be given in the Board' s report instead of in the accounts; and if any such information is so given, the report shall be annexed to the accounts and this Act shall apply in relation there to accordingly, except that the auditors shall report thereon only in so far as it gives the said information.
223. Certain companies to publish statement in the Form in Table F in Schedule I.
(1) Every company which is a limited banking company, an insurance company, or
a deposit, provident or benefit society, shall, before it commences business
and also on the first Monday in February and the first Monday in August in
every year during which it carries on business, make a statement in the Form
in Table F in Schedule I. or in a Form as near thereto as circumstances admit.
(2) A copy of the statement, together with a copy of the last audited balance
sheet laid before the members of the company, shall be displayed and until the
display of the next following statement, shall be kept displayed, in a
conspicuous place in the registered office of the company, and in every branch
office or place where the business of the company is carried on.
(3) Every member, and every creditor, of the company shall be entitled, on
payment of a sum of eight annas, to be furnished with a copy of the statement,
within seen days of such payment.
(4) If default is made in complying with any of the requirement of this
section, the company, and every officer of the company who is in default,
shall be punishable with fine which may extend to fifty rupees for every day
during which the default continues.
(5) This section shall not apply, to a life assurance company or provident
insurance society to which the, provisions of the Insurance Act, 1938 (4 of
1938 ), as to the annual statements to be made by such company or society,
apply with or without modifications, if the company or society complies with
those provisions. Audit
224. Appointment and remuneration of auditors. 1
(1) Every company shall, at each annual general meeting, appoint an auditor or
auditors to hold office from the conclusion of that meeting until the
conclusion of the next annual general meeting and shall, within seven days of
the appointment, give intimation thereof to every auditor so appointed 2 : 3
Provided that before any appointment or re- appointment of auditor or auditors
is made by any company at any annual general meeting, a written certificate
shall be obtained by the company from the auditor or auditors proposed to be
so appointed to the effect that the appointment or re- appointment, if made,
will be in accordance with the limits specified in sub- section (1B).]
(1A) Every auditor appointed under subsection (1), 2 shall within thirty days
of the receipt from the company of the intimation of his appointment, inform
the Registrar in writing that he has accepted, or refused to accept, the
appointment.]
(1B) 3 On and from, the financial year next following the commencement of the
Companies (Amendment) Act, 1974 (41 of 1974 ), no company or its Board of
directors shall appoint or re- appoint any person 4 who is in full time
employment elsewhere] or firm as its auditor if such person or firm is, at the
date of such appoint- ment or re- appointment, holding appointment as auditor
of the specified number of companies or more than the specified number of
companies: 4 Provided that in the case of a firm of auditors," specified
number of companies" shall be construed as the number of companies specified
for every partner of the firm who is not in full- time employment elsewhere:]
1\. Subs. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 67, for sub- section (1).
2\. Omitted by Act 41 of 1974, s. 23 (w. e. f. 1- 2- 1975 ).
3\. Ins. by s. 23, ibid. (w. e. f. 1- 2- 1975 )
4\. Ins. by Act 31 of 1988, s. 33 (w. e. f. 15. 6. 1988 )
5\. Subs. by s. 33, ibid. (w. e. f. 15- 6- 1988 ).
Provided further that where any partner of the firm is also a partner of any
other firm or firms of auditors, the number of compa- nies which may be taken
into account, by all the firms together, in relation to such partner shall not
exceed the specified number in the aggregate: Provided also that where any
partner of a firm of auditors is also holding office, in his individual
capacity, as the auditor of one or more companies, the number of companies
which may be taken into account in his case shall not exceed the specified
number, in the aggregate.
(1C) For the purposes of enabling a company to comply with the provisions of
sub- section (lB), a person or firm holding, immediately before the
commencement of the Companies (Amendment) Act, 1974 , (41 of 1974 .)
appointment as the auditor of a number of companies exceeding the specified
number, shall, within sixty days from such commencement, intimate his or its
unwillingness to be re- appointed as the auditor from the financial year next
following such commencement, to the company or companies of which he or it is
not willing to be re- appointed as the auditor; and shall simultaneously
intimate to the Registrar the names of the companies of which he or it is
willing to be re- appointed as the auditor and forward a copy of the
intimation to each of the companies referred to therein. Explanation I.- For
the purposes of sub- sections (1B) and (lC)," specified number" means,-
(a) in the case of a person or firm holding appointment as auditor of a number
of companies each of which has a paid- up share capital of less than rupees
twenty- five lakhs, twenty such companies;
(b) in any other case, twenty companies, out of which not more than ten shall
be companies each of which has a paid- up share capital of rupees twenty- five
lakhs or more. Explanation II.- In computing the specified number, the number
of companies in respect of which or any part of which any person or firm has
been appointed as an auditor, whether singly or in combination with any other
person or firm., shall be taken into account.]
(2) 1 Subject to the provisions of sub- section (lB) and section 224A, at any
annual general meeting], a retiring auditor, by whatso- ever authority
appointed, shall be re- appointed, unless-
(a) he is not qualified for re- appointment;
(b) he has given the company notice in writing of his unwillingness to be re-
appointed;
(c) a resolution has been passed at that meeting appointing somebody instead
of him or providing expressly that he shall not be re- appointed; or
(d) where notice has been given of an intended resolution to appoint some
person or persons in the place of a retiring auditor, and by reason of the
death, incapacity or dis- qualification of that person or of all those
persons, as the case may be, the resolution cannot be proceeded with.
(3) Where at an annual general meeting no auditors are appointed or re-
appointed, the Central Government may appoint a person to fill the vacancy.
(4) The company shall, within seven days of the Central Govern- ment' s power
under sub- section (3), becoming exercisable, give notice of, that fact to
that Government; and, if a company fails to give such notice, the company, and
every officer of the company who is in default, shall be punishable with fine
which may extend to five hundred rupees.
(5) The first auditor or auditors of a company shall be appointed by the Board
of directors within one month of the date of registration of the company; and
the auditor or auditors so appointed shall hold office until the conclusion of
the first annual general meeting: Provided that-
(a) the company may, at a general meeting, remove any such auditor or all or
any of such auditors and appoint in his or their places any other person or
persons who have been nominated for appointment by any member of the company
and of whose nomination notice has been given to the members of the company
not less than fourteen days before the date of the meeting; and
1\. Subs. by Act 41 of 1974, s. 23, for certain words (w. e. f. 1- 2- 1975 ).
(b) if the Board falls to exercise its powers under this sub- section, the
company in general meeting may appoint the first auditor or auditors.
(6) (a) The Board may fill any casual vacancy in the office of an auditor; but
while any such vacancy continues, the remaining auditor or auditors, if any,
may act: Provided that where such vacancy is caused by the resignation of an
auditor, the vacancy shall only be filled by the company In general meeting.
(b) Any auditor appointed in a casual vacancy shall hold office until the
conclusion of the next annual general meeting.
(7) Except as provided in the proviso to sub- section (5), any auditor
appointed under this section may be removed from office before the expiry of
his term only by the company in general meeting, after obtaining the previous
approval of the Central Government in that behalf.
(8) The remuneration of the auditors of a company-
(a) in the case of an auditor appointed by the Board or the Central
Government, may be fixed by the Board or the Central Government, as the case
may be; and
(b) subject to clause (a), shall be fixed by the company in general meeting or
in such manner as the company in general meeting may determine. For the
purposes of this sub- section, any sums paid by the company in respect of the
auditors' expenses shall be deemed to be included in the expression"
remuneration".
Auditor not to be appointed except with the approval of the company byspecial
resolution in certain cases.
224A. 1 Auditor not to be appointed except with the approval of the company by
special resolution in certain cases.
(1) In the case of a company in which not less than twenty- five per cent of
the subscribed share capital is held, whether singly or in any combination,
by-
(a) a public financial institution or a Government company or Central
Government or any State Government, or,
(b) any financial or other institution established by any Provincial or State
Act in which a State Government holds not less than fifty- one per cent. of
the subscribed share capital, or
1\. Ins. by Act 41 of 1974, s. 24 (w. e. f. 1- 2- 1975 ).
(c) a nationalised bank or an insurance company carrying on general insurance
business, the appointment or reappointment at each annual general meeting of
an auditor or auditors shall be made by a special resolution.
(2) Where any company referred to in sub- section (1) omits or fails to pass
at its annual general meeting any special resolution appointing an auditor or
auditors, it shall be deemed that no auditor or auditors had been appointed by
the company at its annual general meeting, and thereupon the provisions of
sub- section (3) of section 224 shall become applicable in relation to such
company. Explanation.- For the purposes of this section,-
(a) " general insurance business" has the meaning assigned to it in the
General Insurance (Emergency Provisions) Act, 1971 ; (17 of 1971 .)
(b) " nationalised bank" means a corresponding new bank as defined in the
Banking Companies (Acquisition and Transfer of Undertakings) Act, 1970 (5 of
1970 ), 1 or in the Banking Comp- anies (Acquisition and Transfer of
Undertakings) Act, 1980 ] (40 of 1980 )]
225. Provisions as to resolutions for appointing or removing auditors.
(1) Special notice shall be required for a resolution at an annual general
meeting appointing as auditor a person other than a retiring auditor, or
providing expressly that a retiring auditor shall not be re- appointed.
(2) On receipt of notice of such a resolution, the company shall forthwith
send a copy thereof to the retiring auditor.
(3) Where notice is given of such a resolution and the retiring auditor makes
with respect thereto representations in writing to the company (not exceeding
a reasonable length) and requests their notification to members of the
company, the company shall, unless the representations are received by it too
late for it to do so,-
(a) in any notice of the resolution given to members of the company, state the
fact of the representations having been made; and
(b) send a copy of the representations to every member of the company to whom
notice of the meeting is sent, whether before or after the receipt of the
representations by the company;
1\. Added by Act 31 of 1988, s. 34 (w. e. f. 15- 6- 1988 ).
and if a copy of the representations is not sent as aforesaid because they
were received too late or because of the company' s default, the auditor may
(without prejudice to his right to be heard orally) require that the
representations shall be read out at the meeting: Provided that copies of the
representations need not be sent out and the representations need not be read
out at the meeting if, on the application either of the company or of any
other person who claims to be aggrieved, the 1 Company Law Board] is satisfied
that the rights conferred by this sub- section are being abused to secure
needless publicity for defamatory matter; and the 1 Company Law Board] may
order the company' s costs on such an application to be paid in whole or in
part by the auditor, notwithstanding that he is not a party to the
application.
(4) Sub- sections (2) and (3) shall apply to a resolution to remove the first
auditors or any of them under sub- section (5) of section 224 or to the
removal of any auditor or auditors under sub- section (7) of that section, as
they apply in relation to a resolution that a retiring auditor shall not be
re- appointed.
226. Qualifications and disqualifications of auditors.
(1) A person shall not be qualified for appointment as auditor of a company
unless he is a chartered accountant within the meaning of the Chartered
Accountants Act, 1949 (48 of 1949 ): Provided that a firm whereof all the
partners practising in India are qualified for appointment as aforesaid may be
appointed by its
1\. Subs. by Act 31 of 1988, s. 67 (w. e. f. 31- 5- 1991 ).
firm name to be auditor of a company, in which case any partner so practising
may act in the name of the firm.
(2) (a) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub- section (1) but subject to
the provisions of any rules made under clause (b), the holder of a certificate
granted under a law in force in the whole or any portion of a Part B State
immediately before the commencement of the Part B States (Laws) Act, 1951 (3
of 1951 .) 1 or of the Jammu and Kashmir (Extension of Laws) Act, 1956 , (62
of 1956 .) as the case may be,] entitling him to act as an auditor of
companies 2 in the territories which, immediately before the 1st November,
1956 , were comprised in that State] or any portion thereof, shall be entitled
to be appointed to act as an auditor of companies registered anywhere in 3
India].
(b) The Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, make
rules providing for the grant, renewal, suspension or cancellation of
auditors' certificates to persons in 4 the territories which, immediately
before the 1st November, 1956 , were comprised in Part- B States] for the
purposes of clause (a), and prescribing conditions and restrictions for such
grant, renewal, suspension or cancellation.
(3) None of the following persons shall be qualified for appointment as
auditor of a company-
(a) a body corporate;
(b) an officer or employee of the company;
(c) a person who is a partner, or who is in the employment, of an officer or
employee of the company;
(d) a person who is indebted to the company for an amount exceeding one
thousand rupees, or who, has given any guarantee or provided any security in
connection with the indebtedness of any third person to the company for an
amount exceeding one thousand rupees;
(e) a person who is a director or member of a private company, or a partner of
a firm, which is the managing agent or the secretaries and treasurers of the
company;
(f) a person who is a director or the holder of shares exceeding five per
cent. in nominal value of the subscribed
1\. Ins. by Act 62 of 1956, s. 2 and Sch. (w. e. f. 1- 11- 1956 ).
2\. Subs. by the A. O. (No. 3) 1956, for" in that State".
3\. Subs. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 68, for" those territories".
4\. Subs. by the A. O. (No. 3) 1956, for" Part B States".
capital, of any body corporate which is the managing agent or the secretaries
and treasurers, of the company: Provided that any shares held by such person
as nominee or trustee for any third person and in which the holder has no
beneficial interest shall be excluded in computing the percentage of shares
held by him for the purpose of this clause. Explanation.- References in this
sub- section to an officer or employee shall be construed as not including
references to an auditor.
(4) A person shall also not be qualified for appointment as auditor of a
company if he is, by virtue of sub- section (3), disqualified for appointment
as auditor of any other body corporate which is that company' s subsidiary or
holding company or a subsidiary of that company' s holding company, or would
be so disqualified if the body corporate were a company.
(5) If an auditor becomes subject, after his appointment, to any of the
disqualifications specified in subsections (3) and (4), he shall be deemed to
have vacated his office as such.
227. Powers and duties of auditors.
(1) Every auditor of a company shall have a right of access at all times to
the books and accounts and vouchers of the company, whether kept at the head
office of the company or elsewhere, and shall be entitled to require from the
officers of the company such information and explanations as the auditor may
think necessary for the performance of his duties as auditor.
(1A) 1 Without prejudice to the provisions of sub- section (1), the auditor
shall inquire-
(a) whether loans and advances made by the company on the basis of security
have been properly secured and whether the terms on which they have been made
are not prejudicial to the interests of the company or its members;
(b) whether transactions of the company which are represented merely by book
entries are not prejudicial to the interests of the company;
(c) where the company is not an investment company within the meaning of
section 372 or a banking company, whether so much of the assets of the company
as consist of shares, debentures and other securities have been sold at a
price less than that at which they were purchased by the company;
1\. Ins. by Act 31 of 1965, s. 21 (w. e. f. 15- 10- 1965 ).
(d) whether loans and advances made by the company have been shown as
deposits;
(e) whether personal expenses have been charged to revenue account;
(f) where it is stated in the books and papers of the company that any shares
have been allotted for cash, whether cash has actually been received in
respect of such allotment, and if no cash has actually been so received,
whether the position as stated in the account books and the balance- sheet is
correct, regular and not misleading.]
(2) The auditor shall make a report to the members of the company on the
accounts examined by him, and on every balance sheet and profit and loss
account and on every other document declared by this Act to be part of or
annexed to the balance sheet or profit and loss account, which are laid before
the company in general meeting during his tenure of office, and the report
shall state whether, in his opinion and to the best of his information and
according to the explanations given to him, the said accounts give the
information required by this Act in the manner so required and give a true and
fair view-
(i) in the case of the balance sheet, of the state of the company' s affairs
as at the end of its financial year; and
(ii) in the case of the profit and loss account, of the profit or loss for its
financial year.
(3) The auditor' s report shall also state-
(a) whether he has obtained all the information and explanations which to the
best of his knowledge and belief were necessary for the purposes of his audit;
(b) whether, in his opinion, proper books of account as required by law have
been kept by the company so far as appears from his examination of those
books, and proper returns adequate for the purposes of his audit have been
received from branches not visited by him;
(bb) 1 whether the report on the accounts of any branch office audited under
section 228 by a person other than the company' s auditor has been forwarded
to him as required by clause (c) of sub- section (3) of that section and how
he has dealt with the same in preparing the auditor' s report;
1\. Ins. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 69.
(c) whether the company' s balance sheet and profit and loss account dealt
with by the report are in agreement with the books of account and returns.
(4) Where any of the matters referred to in clauses (i) and (ii) of sub-
section (2) or in clauses (a), (b), I[ (bb)] and (c) of sub- section (3) is
answered in the negative or with a qualification, the auditor' s report shall
state the reason' for the answer,
(4A) 2 The Central Government may, by general or special order, direct. that,
in the case, of such class or description of companies as may be specified in
the order, the auditor' s report shall also include a statement on such
matters as may be specified therein: Provided that before making any such
order the Central Government may consult the Institute of Chartered
Accountants of India constituted under the Chartered Accountants Act, 1949 ,
(38 of 1949 ) in regard to the class or description of companies and other
ancillary matters proposed to be specified therein unless the Government
decides that such consultation is not necessary or expedient in the
circumstances of the case.]
(5) 3 The accounts of a company shall not be deemed as not having been, and
the auditor' s report shall not state that those accounts have not been,
properly drawn up on the ground merely that the company has not disclosed
certain matters if-
(a) those matters are such as the company is not required to disclose by
virtue of any provisions contained in this or any other Act, and
(b) those provisions are specified in the balance sheet and profit and loss
account of the company.]
228. Audit of accounts of branch office of company.
(1) Where a company has a branch office, the accounts of that office shall, 4
be audited by the company' s auditor appointed under section 224 or] by a
person qualified for appointment as auditor of the company under section 226,
or where the branch office is situate in a country outside India, either 5 by
the company' s auditor or a person qualified as aforesaid] or by an accountant
duly qualified to act as an auditor of the accounts of the branch office in
accordance with the laws of that country.
1\. Ins. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 69.
2\. Ins. by Act 31 of 1965, s. 21 (W. e. f. 15- 10- 1965 ).
3\. Subs. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 69, for sub- section (5).
4\. Subs. by s. 70, ibid., for certain words.
5\. Subs. by s. 70, ibid., for" by a person qualified as aforesaid".
(2) Where the accounts of any branch office are 1 audited by a person other
than the company' s auditor] the company' s auditor-
(a) shall be entitled to visit the branch office, if he deems it necessary to
do so for the performance of his duties as auditor, and
(b) shall have a right of access at all times to the books and accounts and
vouchers of the company maintained at the branch office: Provided that in the
case of a banking company having a branch office outside India, it shall be
sufficient if the auditor is allowed access to such copies of, and extracts
from, the books and accounts of the branch as have been transmitted to the
principal office of the company in India.
(3) 2 (a) Where a company in general meeting decides to have the accounts of a
branch office audited otherwise than by the company' s auditor, the company in
that meeting shall for the audit of those accounts appoint a person qualified
for appointment as auditor of the company under section 226, or where the
branch office is situate in a country outside India, a person who is either
qualified as aforesaid or an accountant duly qualified to act as an auditor,
of the accounts of the branch office in accordance with the laws of that
country, or authorise the Board of directors to appoint such a person in
consultation with the company' s auditor;
(b) the person so appointed (hereafter in this section referred to as the
branch auditor) shall have the same powers and duties in respect of audit of
the accounts of the branch office as the company' s auditor has in respect of
the same;
(c) the branch auditor shall prepare a report on the accounts of the branch
office examined by him and forward the same to the company' s auditor who
shall in preparing the auditor' s report, deal with the same in such manner as
he considers necessary;
(d) the branch auditor shall receive such remuneration and shall hold his
appointment subject to such terms and conditions as may be fixed either by the
company in general meeting or by the Board of directors if so authorised by
the company in general meeting.
(4) Notwithstanding anything contained in the foregoing pro- visions of this
section, the Central Government 3 may make rules
1\. Subs. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 70, for" not so audited".
2\. Ins. by s 70, ibid.
3\. Subs. by Act 31 of 1965, S. 22, for" may, by rules made in this behalf,
exempt" (w. e. f. 15- 10- 1965 ).
providing for the exemption of any branch office from the provisions of this
section to the extent specified in the rules and in making such rules the
Central Government shall have regard to all or any of the following matters,
namely:-
(a) the arrangement made by the company for the audit of accounts of the
branch office by a person otherwise qualified for appointment as branch
auditor even though such person may be an officer or employee of the company;
(b) the nature and quantum of activity carried on at the branch office during
a period of three years immediately preceding the date on which the branch
office is exempted from the provisions of this section;
(c) the availability at a reasonable cost of a branch auditor for the audit of
accounts of the branch office;
(d) any other matter which in the opinion of the Central Government justifies
the grant of exemption to the branch office from the provisions of this
section.]
229. Signature of audit report, etc. Only the person appointed as auditor of the company, or where a firm is so appointed in pursuance of the proviso to sub- section
(1) of section 226, only a partner in the firm practising in India, may sign
the auditor' s report, or sign or authenticate any other document of the
company required by law to be signed or authenticated by the auditor.
230. Reading and inspection of auditor' s report. The auditor' s report shall be read before the company in general meeting and shall be open to inspection by any member of the company.
231. Right of auditor to attend general meeting. All notices of, and other communications relating to, any general meeting of a company which any member of the company is entitled to have sent to him shall also be forwarded to the auditor of the company; and the auditor shall be entitled to attend any general meeting and to be heard at any general meeting which he attends on any part of the business which concerns him as auditor.
232. Penalty for non- compliance with sections 225 to 231. If default is made by a company in complying with any of the provisions contained in sections 225 to 231, the company, and every officer of the company who is in default, shall be punishable with fine which may extend to five hundred rupees.
233. Penalty for non- compliance by auditor with sections 227 and 229. If any auditor' s report is made, or any document of the company is signed or authenticated, otherwise than in conformity with the requirements of sections 227 and 229, the auditor concerned, and the person, if any, other than the auditor who signs the report or signs or authenticates the document, shall, if the default is wilful, be punishable with fine which may extend to one thousand rupees.
Power of Central Government to direct special audit in certain cases.
233A. 1 Power of Central Government to direct special audit in certain cases.
(1) Where the Central Government is of the opinion-
(a) that the affairs of any company are not being managed in accordance with
sound business principles or prudent commercial practices; or
(b) that any company is being managed in a manner likely to cause serious
injury or damage to the interests of the trade, industry or business to which
it pertains; or
(c) that the financial position of any company is such as to endanger its
solvency; the Central Government may at any time by order direct that a
special audit of the company' s accounts for such period or periods as may be
specified in the order, shall be conducted and may by the same or a different
order appoint either a chartered accountant as defined in clause (b) of sub-
section (1) of section 2 of the Chartered Accountants Act. 1949 (38 of 1949 .)
(whether or not such chartered accountant is a chartered accountant in
practice within the meaning of that Act), or the company' s auditor himself to
conduct such special audit.
(2) The chartered accountant or the company' s auditor appointed under sub-
section (1) to conduct a special audit as aforesaid is here- after in this
section referred to as the special auditor.
(3) The special auditor shall have the same powers and duties in relation to
the special audit as an auditor of a company has under section 227: Provided
that the special. auditor shall, instead of making his report to the members
of the company, make the same to the Central Government.
(4) The report of the special auditor shall, as far as may be, include all the
matters required to be included in an auditor' s report under section 227 and,
if the Central Government so directs, shall
1\. Ins. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 71.
also include a statement on any other matter which may be referred to him by
that Government.
(5) The Central Government may by order direct any person specified in the
order to furnish to the special auditor within such time as may be specified
therein such information or additional in- formation as may be required by the
special auditor in connection with the special audit; and on failure to comply
with such order such person shall be punishable with fine which may extend to
five hundred rupees.
(6) On receipt of the report of the special auditor, the Central Government
may take such action on the report as it considers necessary in accordance
with the provisions of this Act or any other law for the time being in force:
Provided that if the Central Government does not take any action on the report
within four months from the date of its receipt, that Government shall send to
the company either a copy of, or relevant extract from, the report with its
comments thereon and require the company either to circulate that copy or
those extracts to the members or to have such copy or extracts read before the
company at its next general meeting.
(7) The expenses of, and incidental to, any special audit under this section
(including the remuneration of the special auditor) shall be determined by the
Central Government (which determination shall be final) and paid by the
company and in, default of such payment shall be recoverable from the company
as an arrear of land revenue.]
Audit of cost accounts in certain cases.
233B. 1 Audit of cost accounts in certain cases.
(1) Where in the opinion of the Central Government it is necessary so to do in
relation to any company required under clause (d) of sub- section (1) of
section 209 to include in its books of account the particulars referred to
therein, the Central Government may, by order, direct that an audit of cost
accounts of the company shall be conducted in such manner as may be specified
in the order by an auditor 2 who shall be a cost accountant within the meaning
of the Cost and Works Accountants Act, 1959 (23 of 1959 ): Provided that if
the Central Government is of opinion that sufficient number of cost
accountants within the meaning of the Cost
1\. Ins. by Act 31 of 1965, s. 23 (w. e. f. 15- 1965 ).
2\. Subs. by Act 41 of 1974, s. 25, for certain words (w. e. f. 1- 2- 1975 ).
and Works Accountants Act, 1959 (23 of 1959 ), are not available for
conducting the audit of the cost accounts, of companies generally, that
Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, direct that, for such
period as may be specified in the said notification, such Chartered Accountant
within the meaning of the Chartered Accountants Act, 1949 (13 of 1949 ), as
possesses the prescribed qualifications, may also conduct the audit of the
cost accounts of companies, and thereupon a Chartered Accountant possessing
the prescribed qualifications may be appointed to audit the cost accounts of
the company.]
(2) 1 The auditor under this section shall be appointed by the Board of
directors of the company in accordance with the provisions of sub- section
(1B) of section 224 and with the previous approval of the Central Government:
Provided that before the appointment of any auditor is made by the Board, a
written certificate shall be obtained by the Board from the auditor proposed
to be so appointed to the effect that the appointment, if made, will be in
accordance with the provisions of sub- section (1B) of section 224.]
(3) An audit conducted by an auditor under this section shall be in addition
to an audit conducted by an auditor appointed under section 224.
(4) An auditor shall have the same powers and duties in relation to an audit
conducted by him under this section as an auditor of a company has under sub-
section (1) of section 227 and such auditor shall make his report to the 2
Central Government] in such form and within such time as may be prescribed and
shall also at the same time forward a copy of the report to the company.]
(5) 3 (a) A person referred to in sub- section (3) or sub- section (4) of
section 226 shall not be appointed or re- appointed for con- ducting the audit
of the cost accounts of a company.
(b) A person appointed, under section 224, as an auditor of a company, shall
not be appointed or re- appointed for conducting the audit of the cost
accounts of that company.
(c) If a person, appointed for conducting the audit of cost accounts of a
company, becomes subject, after his appointment, to any of the
disqualifications specified in clause (a) or clause (b) of this sub- section,
he shall, on and from the date on which he becomes so subject, cease to
conduct the audit of the cost accounts of the company.
(6) Upon receipt of an order under sub- section (1), it shall be the duty of
the company to give all facilities and assistance to the
1\. Subs. by Act 31 of 1988, S. 35 (w. e. f. 15- 6- 1988 ).
2\. Subs. by Act 41 of 1974, s. 25 for" Company Law Board" (w. e. f. 1- 2-
1975 ).
3\. Ins. by s. 25, ibid. (w. e. f. 1- 2- 1975 )
person appointed for conducting the audit of the cost accounts of the company.
(7) The company shall, within thirty days from the date of receipt of a copy
of the report referred to in sub- section (4), furnish the Central Government
with full information and explanations or every reservation or qualification
contained in such report.
(8) If, after considering the report referred to in sub- section (4) and the
information and explanations furnished by the company under sub- section (7),
the Central Government is of opinion that any further information or
explanation is necessary, that Government may call for such further
information and explanation and thereupon the company shall furnish the same
within such time as may be specified by that Government.
(9) On receipt of the report referred to in sub- section (4) and the
informations and explanations furnished by the company under sub- section (7)
and sub- section (8), the Central Government may take such action on the
report, in accordance with the provisions of this Act or any other law for the
time being in force, as it may consider necessary.
(10) The Central Government may direct the company whose cost accounts have
been audited under this section to circulate to its members, along with the
notice of the annual general meeting to be held for the first time after the
submission of such report, the whole or such portion of the said report as it
may specify in this behalf.
(11) If default is made in complying with the provisions of this section, the
company shall be liable to be punished with fine which may extend to five
thousand rupees, and every officer of the company who is in default, shall be
liable to be punished with imprisonment for a term which may extend to three
years, or with fine which may extend to five thousand rupees, or with both.]
Power of Registrar to call for information, etc.
234. Power of Registrar to call for information or explanation.
(1) Where, on perusing any document which a company is required to submit to
him under this Act, the Registrar is of opinion that any information or
explanation is necessary 1 with respect to, any matter to which such document]
purports to relate, he may, by a written order, call on the company submitting
the document to
1\. Subs. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 72, for certain words.
furnish in writing such information or explanation, within such time as he may
specify in the order.
(2) On receipt by the company of an order under sub- section (1), it shall be
the duty of the company, and of all persons who are officers of the company,
to furnish such information or explanation to the best of their power.
(3) On receipt of a copy of an order under sub- section (1), it shall also be
the duty of every person who has been an officer of the company to furnish
such information or explanation to the best of his power.
(3A) 1 If no information or explanation is furnished within the time specified
or if the information or explanation furnished is, in the opinion of the
Registrar, inadequate, the Registrar may by another written order call on the
company to produce before him for his inspection such books and papers as he
considers necessary within such time as he may specify in the order; and it
shall be the duty of the company, and of all persons who are officers of the
company, to produce such books and papers.]
(4) If the company, or any such person as is referred to in, sub- section (2)
or (3), refuses or neglects to furnish any such information or explanation 1
or if the company or any such person as is referred to in sub- section (3A)
refuses or neglects to produce any such books and papers],-
(a) 2 the company and each such person shall be punishable with fine which may
extend to five hundred rupees and in the case of a continuing offence, with an
additional fine which may extend to fifty rupees for every day after the first
during which the offence continues; and
(b) the Court trying the offence may, on application of the Registrar and
after notice to the company, make an order on the company for production
before the Registrar of such books and papers as in the opinion of the Court,
may reasonably be required by the Registrar for the purpose referred to in
sub- section (1).]
1\. Ins. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 72.
2\. Subs. by s. 72, ibid., for cls. (a) and (b).
(5) 1 On receipt of any writing containing the information or explanation
referred to in sub- section (1), or of any book or paper produced whether in
pursuance of an order of the Registrar under sub- section (3A) or of an order
of the Court under sub- section (4), the Registrar may annex that writing,
book or paper, or where that book or paper is required by the company, any
copy or extract thereof, to the document referred to in sub- section (1); and
any writing or any book or paper or copy or extract thereof so annexed, shall
be subject to the like provisions as to inspection, the taking of extracts and
the furnishing of copies, as that document is subject.]
(6) 2 If such information or explanation is not furnished within the specified
time or if after perusal of such information or explana- tion or of the books
and papers produced whether in pursuance of an order of the Registrar under
sub- section (3A) or of an order of the Court under sub- section (4), the
Registrar is of opinion that the document referred to in sub- section (1),
together with such informa- tion or explanation or such books and papers
discloses an unsatis- factory state of affairs or does not disclose a full and
fair statement of any matter to which the document purports to relate, the
Registrar shall report in writing the circumstances of the case to the Central
Government.]
(7) If it is represented to the Registrar on materials placed before him by
any contributory or creditor or any other person interested that the business
of a company is being carried on in fraud of its creditors or of persons
dealing with the company or otherwise for a fraudulent or unlawful purpose, he
may, after giving the company an opportunity of being heard, by a written
order, call on the company to furnish in writing any information or
explanation on matters specified in the order, within such time as he may
specify therein; and the provisions of sub- sections (2), (3), 3 (3A)], (4)
and (6) of this section shall apply to such order. If upon inquiry the
Registrar is satisfied that any representation on which he took action under
this sub- section was frivolous or vexatious, he shall disclose the identity
of his informant to the company.
1\. Subs. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 72, for sub- section (5).
2\. Subs. by s. 72, ibid., for sub- section (6).
3\. Ins. by s. 72, ibid
(8) The provisions of this section shall apply mutatis mutandis to documents
which a liquidator, or a foreign company within the meaning of section 591, is
required to file under this Act.
Seizure of documents by Registrar.
234A. 1 Seizure of documents by Registrar.
(1) Where, upon information in his possession or other wise, the Registrar has
reasonable ground to believe that books and papers of, or relating to, any
company or other body corporate, or any managing agent or secretaries and
treasurers or managing director or manager of such company or other body
corporate, or any associate of such managing agent or secretaries and
treasurers, may be destroyed, mutilated, altered, falsified or secreted, the
Registrar may make an application 2 to the Magistrate of the First Class or,
as the case may be, the Presidency Magistrate having jurisdiction for an order
for the seizure of such books and papers.
(2) After considering the application and hearing the Registrar, if necessary,
the 3 Magistrate] may, by order, authorise the Regis- trar-
(a) to enter, with such assistance as may be required, the place or places
where such books and papers are kept;
(b) to search that place or those places in the manner specified in the order;
and
(c) to seize such books and papers as he considers necessary.
(3) The Registrar shall return the books and papers seized under this section
as soon as may be, and in any case not later than the thirtieth day, after
such seizure, to the company or the other body corporate or, as the case may
be, to the managing agent or the secre- taries and treasurers or the associate
of such managing agent or secretaries and treasurers or the managing director
or the manager or any other person, from whose custody or power they were
seized and inform the 3 Magistrate] of such return: Provided that the
Registrar may, before returning such books and papers as aforesaid, take
copies of, or extracts from the 4 or place identification marks on them or any
part thereof] or deal with the same in such other manner as he considers
necessary.
1\. Ins. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 73.
2\. The words" to the Tribunal or" omitted by Act 17 of 1967, s. 4 and Sch.
(w. e. f. 1- 7- 1967 ).
3\. Subs. by s. 4 and Sch., ibid., for" Tribunal or Magistrate, as the case
may be," (w. e. f. 1- 7- 1967 ).
4\. Ins. by Act 31 of 1965, s. 24 (w. e. f. 15- 10- 1965 ).
(4) Save as otherwise provided in this section, every search 1 or seizure]
made under this section shall be carried out in accordance with the provisions
of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898 (5 of 1898 ), relating to searches 1
or seizures] made under that Code.] Investigation
235. 2 Investigation of the affairs of a company.
(1) The Central Government may, where a report has been made by the Registrar
under sub- section (6) of section 234, or under sub- section (7) of that
section, read with sub- section (6) thereof, appoint one or more competent
persons as inspectors to investigate the affairs of a company and to report
thereon in such manner as the Central Government may direct.
(2) Where-
(a) in the case of a company having a share capital, an ap- plication has been
received from not less than two hundred members or from members holding not
less than one- tenth of the total voting power therein, and
(b) in the case of a company having no share capital, an application has been
received from not less than one- fifth of persons on the company' s register
of members, the Company Law Board may, after giving the parties an opportunity
of being heard, by order, declare that the affairs of the company ought to be
investigated by an inspector or inspectors, and on such a declaration being
made, the Central Government shall appoint one or more competent persons as
inspectors to investigate the affairs of the company and to report thereon in
such manner as the Central Government may direct.]
1\. Ins. by Act 31 of 1965, s. 24 (w. e. f 15- 10. 1965 ).
2\. Subs. by Act 31 of 1988, s. 36 (w. e. f. 31- 5- 1991 ).
236. Application by members to be supported by evidence and power to call for security. An application by members of a company 1 under sub- section (2) of section 235] shall be supported by such evidence as the 1 Company Law Board may require] for the purpose of showing that the applicants have good reason for requiring the investigation; and the Central Government may, before appointing an inspector, require the applicants to give security, for such amount not exceeding one thousand rupees as it may think fit, for payment of the costs of the investigation.
237. Investigation of company' s affairs in other cases. Without prejudice to its powers under section 235, the Central Government-
(a) shall appoint one or more competent persons as inspectors to investigate
the affairs of a company and to report thereon in such manner as the Central
Government may direct, if-
(i) the company, by special resolution; or
(ii) the Court, by order, declares that the affairs of the company ought to be
investigated by an inspector appointed by the Central Government; and
(b) may do so if, in the opinion of the 2 Company Law Board] there are
circumstances suggesting--
(i) that the business of the company is being conducted with intent to defraud
its creditors, members or any other persons, or otherwise for a fraudulent or
unlawful purpose, or in a manner oppressive of any of its members, or that the
company was formed for any fraudulent or unlawful purpose;
(ii) that persons concerned in the formation of the company or the management
of its affairs have in connection therewith been guilty of fraud, misfeasance
or other misconduct towards the company or towards any of its members; or
1\. Subs. by Act 31 of 1988, s. 37 (w. e. f. 31. 5. 1991 ).
2\. Subs. by s. 38, ibid. (w. e. f. 31. 5. 1991 )
(iii) that the members of the company have not been given all the information
with respect to its affairs which they might reasonably expect, including
information relating to the calculation of the commission payable to a
managing or other director, 1 or the manager, of the company.
238. Firm body corporate or association not to be appointed as inspector. No firm, body corporate or other association shall be appointed as an inspector under section 235 or 237.
239. 2 Power of inspectors to carry investigation into affairs of related companies or of managing agent or associate, etc.
(1) If an inspector appointed under section 235 or 237 to investigate the
affairs of a company thinks it necessary for the purposes of his investigation
to investigate also the affairs of-
(a) any other body corporate which is, or has at any relevant time been the
company' s subsidiary or holding company, or a subsidiary of its holding
company, or a holding company of its subsidiary;
(b) any other body corporate which is, or has at any relevant time been,
managed-
(i) by any person as managing agent or as secretaries and treasurers or as
managing director or as manager, who is, or was at the relevant time, either
the managing agent or the secretaries and treasurers or the managing director
or the manager of the company; or
(ii) by any person who is, or was at the relevant time, an associate of the
managing agent, or secretaries and treasurers of the company; or
(iii) by any person of whom the managing agent or secretaries and treasurers
of the company is, or was at the relevant time, an associate;
(c) any other body corporate which is, or has at any relevant time been,
managed by the company or whose Board of directors comprises of nominees of
the company or is accustomed to act in accordance with the directions or
instructions of-
(i) the company, or
(ii) any of the directors of the company, or
1\. Omitted by Act 31 of 1988, S. 38 (w. e. f. 31. 5. 1991 ).
2\. Subs. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 74 for s. 239.
(iii) any company any of whose directorships is held by the employees or
nominees of those having the control and management of the first- mentioned
company; or
(d) any person who is or has at any relevant time been the company' s managing
agent or secretaries and treasurers or managing director or manager or an
associate of such managing agent or secretaries and treasurers, the inspector
shall, subject to the provisions of sub- section (2), have power so to do and
shall report on the affairs of the other body corporate or of the managing
agent, secretaries and treasurers, managing director, manager or associate of
the managing agent or secretaries and treasurers, so far as he thinks that the
results of his investigation thereof are relevant to the investigation of the
affairs of the first- mentioned company.
(2) In the case of any body corporate or person referred to in clause (b)
(ii), (b) (iii), (c) or (d) of sub- section (1), the inspector shall not
exercise his power of investigating into, and reporting on, its or his affairs
without first having obtained the prior approval of the Central Government
thereto: Provided that before according approval under this sub- section, the
Central Government shall give the body corporate or person a reasonable
opportunity to show cause why such approval should not be accorded.]
240. Production of documents and evidence.
(1) It shall be the duty of 1 all officers and other employees] and agents of
the company, and where the company is or was managed by a managing agent or
secretaries and treasurers, of 1 all officers and other employees] and agents
of the managing agent or secretaries and treasurers, and where the affairs of
any other body corporate, or of a managing agent or secretaries and
treasurers, or of- an associate of a managing agent or secretaries and
treasurers, are investigated by virtue of section 239, of 1 all officers and
other employees] and agents of such body corporate, managing agent,
secretaries and treasurers, or associate, and where such managing agent,
secretaries and treasurers or associate is or was a firm, of all partners in
the firm-
(a) 2 to preserve and to produce to an inspector or any person authorised by
him in this behalf with the previous
1\. Subs. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 75, for" all officers"
2\. Subs. by Act 31 of 1965, s. 25, for" to produce to an inspector" (w. e. f.
15- 10- 1965 ).
approval of the Central Government,] all books and papers of, or relating to,
the company or, as the case may be, of or relating to the other body
corporate, managing agent, secretaries and treasurers or associate, which are
in their custody or power; and
(b) otherwise to give to the inspector all assistance in connection with the
investigation which they are reasonably able to give.
(1A) 1 The inspector may, with the previous approval of the Central
Government, require any body corporate[ other than a body corporate referred
to in sub- section (1)] to furnish such information to, or produce such books
and papers before, him or any person autho- rised by him in this behalf 2 with
the previous approval of that Government] as he may consider necessary if the
furnishing of such information or the production of such books and papers is
relevant or necessary for the purposes of his investigation.
(1B) The inspector may keep in his custody any books and papers produced under
sub- section (1) or sub- section (lA) for six months and thereafter shall
return the same to the company, body corporate, firm or individual by whom or
on whose behalf the books and papers are produced: Provided that the inspector
may call for the books and papers if they are needed again: Provided further
that if certified copies of the books and papers produced under sub- section
(lA) are furnished to the inspector, he shall return those books and papers to
the body corporate concerned.]
(2) 3 An inspector may examine on oath-
(a) any of the persons referred to in sub- section (1); and
(b) with the previous approval of the Central Government, any other person, in
relation to the affairs of the company, other body corporate, managing agent,
secretaries and treasurers or associate, as the case may be; and may
administer an oath accordingly and for that purpose may require any of those
persons to appear before him personally.
1\. Ins. by Act 31 of 1965, s. 25 (w. e. f. 15- 10- 1965 ).
2\. Ins. by Act 34 of 1966, s. 2 (w. e. f. 1- 4- 1966 ).
3\. Subs. by Act 31 of 1965, s. 25, for sub- sections (2), (3), (3A) and (4)
(w. e. f 15- 10- 1965 ).
(3) If any person fails without reasonable cause or refuses-
(a) to produce to an inspector or any person authorised by him in this behalf
with the previous approval of the Central Government any book or paper which
it is his duty under sub- section (1) or sub- section (1A) to produce; or
(b) to furnish any information which it is his duty under sub- section (1A) to
furnish; or
(c) to appear before the inspector personally when required to do so under
sub- section (2) or to answer any question which is put to him by the
inspector in pursuance of that sub- section; or
(d) to sign the notes of any examination referred to in sub- section (5), he
shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to six
months, or with fine which may extend to two thousand rupees, or with both,
and also with a further fine which may extend to two hundred rupees for every
day after the first during which the failure or refusal continues.] 1
(5) Notes of any examination under sub- section (2) 2 shall be taken down in
writing and shall be read over to or by, and signed by, the person examined,
and may thereafter be used in evidence against him.
(6) In this section-
(a) the expression" officers", in relation to any company or body corporate,
includes any trustee for the debenture holders of such company or body
corporate;
(b) the expression" agent", in relation to any company, body corporate or
person, means any one acting or purporting to act for or on behalf of such
company, body corporate or person, and includes the bankers and legal advisers
of, and persons employed as auditors by, such company, body corporates or
person; and
(c) any referenceto 3 officers and other employees], agents or partners shall
be construed as a reference to past as well as present 3 officers and other
employees], agents or partners, as the case may be.
1\. Omitted as a result of substitution of sub- sections (2), (3), (3A) and
(4) by Act 31 of 1965, s. 25 (w. e. f. 15- 10- 1965 ).
2\. The word, brackets and figure" or (4)" omitted by s. 25, ibid (w. e. f.
15- 10- 1965 ).
3\. Subs. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 75, for" officers"
Seizure of documents by inspector.
240A. 1 Seizure of documents by inspector.
(1) Where in the course of investigation under section 235 or section 237 or
section 239 or section 247, the inspector has reasonable ground to believe
that the books and papers of, or relating to, any company or other body
corporate or any managing agent or secretaries and treasurers or managing
director or manager of such company or other body corporate, or any associate
of such managing agent or secretaries and treasurers may be destroyed,
mutilated, altered, falsified or secreted, the inspector may make an
application 2 to the Magistrate of the First Class or, as the case may be, the
Presidency Magistrate, having jurisdiction for an order for the seizure of
such books and papers.
(2) After considering the application and hearing the inspector, if necessary,
the 3 Magistrate] may by order authorise the inspector--
(a) to enter, with such assistance, as may be required, the place or places
where such books and papers are kept;
(b) to search that place or those places in the manner specified in the order;
and
(c) to seize books and papers he considers necessary for the purposes of his
investigation.
(3) The inspector shall keep in his custody the books and papers seized under
this section for such period not later than the conclu- sion of the
investigation as he considers necessary and thereafter shall return the same
to the company or the other body corporate, or, as the case may be, to the
managing agent, or the secretaries and treasurers or the associate of such
managing agent or secretaries and treasurers or the managing director or the
manager or any other person, from whose custody or power they were seized and
inform the 3 Magistrate] of such return: 4 Provided that the inspector may,
before returning such books and papers as aforesaid, place identification
marks on them or any part thereof.]
(4) Save as otherwise provided in this section, every search 4 or seizure]
made under this section shall be carried out in accordance with the provisions
of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898 (5 of 1898 ), relating to searches 4
or seizures] made under that Code.]
1\. Ins. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 76.
2\. The words" to the Tribunal or" omitted by Act 17 of 1967, s. 4 and Sch.
(w. e. f. 1- 7- 1967 ).
3\. Subs. by s. 4 and Sch., ibid., for" Tribunal or Magistrate, as the case
may be," (w. e. f. 1- 7- 1967 ).
4\. Ins. by Act 31 of 1965, s. 26 (w. e. f. 15- 10- 1965 ).
241. Inspectors' report.
(1) The inspectors may, and if so directed by the Central Government shall,
make interim reports to that Government, and on the conclusion of the
investigation, shall make a final report to the Central Government. Any such
report shall be written or printed, as the Central Gov- ernment may direct.
(2) The Central Government-
(a) shall forward a copy of any report 1 (other than an interim report)] made
by the inspectors to the company at its registered office, and also to any
body corporate, managing agent, secretaries and treasurers or associate dealt
with in the report by virtue of section 239;
(b) may, if it thinks fit, furnish a copy thereof, on request and on payment
of the prescribed fee, to any person-
(i) who is a member of the company or other body corporate (including a
managing agent, secretaries and treasurers, or an associate of a managing
agent or secretaries and treasurers, where such managing agent, secretaries
and treasurers or associate is a body cor- porate) dealt with in the report by
virtue of section 239;
(ii) who is a partner in the firm, where such managing agent, secretaries and
treasurers or associate is a firm; or
(iii) whose interests as a creditor of the company, other body corporate,
managing agent, secretaries and treasurers or associate aforesaid appear to
the Central Government to be affected;
(c) shall, where the inspectors are appointed 2 in pursuance of the provisions
of sub- section (2)] of section 235, furnish, at the request of the applicants
for the investigation, a copy of the report to them;
(d) shall, where the inspectors are appointed under section 237 in pursuance
of an order of the Court, furnish a copy of the report to the Court 3 ;
(dd) 4 shall where the inspectors are appointed in pursuance of the provisions
of sub- section (2) of section 235, furnish a copy of the report to the
Company Law Board; and]
(e) may also cause the report to be published.
242. Prosecution.
(1) If, from any report made under section 241, it appears to the Central
Government that any person has, in relation to the company or in relation to
any other body corporate, managing agent, secretaries and treasurers or
associate of a managing agent or secretaries and treasurers, whose affairs
have been investigated by virtue of section 239, been guilty of any offence
for which he is criminally liable, the Central Government may, after taking
such legal advice as it thinks fit, prosecute such person for the offence; and
it shall be the duty of 5 all offices and other employees] and agents of the
1\. Ins. by Act 31 of 1965, S. 27 (w. e. f. 15- 10- 1965 ).
2\. Subs. by Act 31 of 1988, s. 39 (w. e. f. 31- 5- 1991 ).
3\. Omitted by s. 39, ibid (w. e. f. 31- 5- 1991 ).
4\. Ins. by s. 39, ibid (w. e. f. 31- 5- 1991 ).
5\. Subs. by Act 65 of 1960, 77, for" all officers".
company, body corporate, managing agent, secretaries and treasurers, or
associate, as the case may be (other than the accused in the pro- ceedings),
to give the Central Government all assistance in connec- tion with the
prosecution which they are reasonably able to give.
(2) Sub- section (6) of section 240 shall apply for the purposes of this
section, as it applies for the purposes of that section.
243. Application for winding up of company or an order under section 397 or 298. If any such company or other body corporate, or any such managing agent, secretaries and treasurers, or associate, being a body corporate, is liable to be wound up under this Act and it appears to the Central Government from any such report as aforesaid that it is expedient so to do by reason of any such circumstances as are referred to in sub- clause (i) or (ii) of clause (b) of section 237, the Central Government may, unless the company, body corporate, managing agent, secretaries and treasurers or associate is already being wound up by the Court, cause to be presented to the Court by any person authorised by the Central Government in this behalf-
(a) a petition for the winding up of the company, body corporate, managing
agent, secretaries and treasurers, or associate, on the ground that it is just
and equitable that it should be wound up;
(b) an application for an order under section 397 or 398; or
(c) both a petition and an application as aforesaid.
244. Proceedings for recovery of damages or property.
(1) If from any such report as aforesaid, it appears to the Central Government
that proceedings ought, in the public interest, to be brought by the company
or any body corporate whose affairs have been investigated in pursuance of
clause (a), (b) or (c) of section 239,-
(a) for the recovery of damages in respect of any fraud, misfeasance or other
misconduct in connection with the pro- motion or formation, or the management
of the affairs, of such company or body corporate; or
(b) for the recovery of any property of such company, or body corporate, which
has been misapplied or wrongfully retained; the Central Government may itself
bring proceedings for that purpose in the name of such company or body
corporate.
(2) The Central Government shall indemnify such company or body corporate
against any costs or express incurred by it in, or in
connection with, any proceedings brought by virtue of sub- section (1).
245. Expenses of investigation.
(1) The expenses of and incidental to an investigation by an inspector
appointed by the Central Government under section 235 or 237 shall be defrayed
in the first instance by the Central Government; but the following persons
shall, to the extent mentioned below, be liable to reimburse the Central
Government in respect of such expenses:-
(a) any person who is convicted on a prosecution instituted in pursuance of
section 242, or who is ordered to pay damages or restore any property in
proceedings brought by virtue of section 244, may, in the same proceedings, be
ordered to pay the said expenses to such extent as may be specified by the
Court convicting such person, or ordering him to pay such damages or restore
such property, as the case may be;
(b) any company or body corporate in whose name proceedings are brought as
aforesaid shall be liable, to the extent of the amount or value of any sums or
property recovered by it as a result of the proceedings; and
(c) unless, as a result of the investigation, a prosecution is instituted in
pursuance of section 242,-
(i) 1 any company, body corporate, managing agent, secretaries and treasurers,
associate, managing director or manager dealt with by the report of the
inspector shall be liable to reimburse the Central Government in respect of
the whole of the expenses, unless and except in so far as, the Central
Government otherwise directs; and]
(ii) the applicants for the investigation, where the inspector was appointed 2
in pursuance of the provisions of sub- section (2)] of section 235, shall be
liable to such extent, if any, as the Central Government may direct.
(2) Any amount for, which a company or body corporate is liable by virtue of
clause (b) of sub- section (1) shall be a first charge on the sums or property
mentioned in that clause.
1\. Subs. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 78, for sub- clause (i).
2\. Subs. by Act 31 of 1988, s. 40 (w. e. f. 31. 5. 1991 ).
(3) 1 The amount of expenses in respect of which any company, body corporate,
managing agent, secretaries and treasurers, associate, managing director or
manager is liable under sub- clause (i) of clause (c) of sub- section (1) to
reimburse the Central Government shall be recoverable from that company, body
corporate, managing agent, secretaries and treasurers, associate, managing
director or manager, as an arrear of land revenue.]
(4) For the purposes of this section, any costs or expenses incurred by the
Central Government in or in connection with proceedings brought by virtue of
section 244 (including expenses incurred by virtue of sub- section (2)
thereof) shall be treated as expenses of the investigation giving rise to the
proceedings.
(5) (a) Any liability to reimburse the Central Government impos- ed by clauses
(a) and (b) of sub- section (1) shall, subject to satis- faction of the right
of the Central Government to reimbursement, be a liability also to indemnify
all persons against liability under clause (c) of that sub- section.
(b) Any such liability imposed by the said clause (a) shall, subject as
aforesaid, be a liability also to indemnify all persons against liability
under the said clause (b).
(c) Any person liable under the said clause (a) or (b) or sub- clause (i) or
(ii) of the said clause (c) shall be entitled to contribution from any other
persons liable under the same clause or sub- clause, as the case may be,
according to the amount of their res- pective liabilities thereunder.
(6) In so far as the expenses to be defrayed by the Central Government under
this section are not recovered thereunder, they shall be paid out of moneys
provided by Parliament.
246. Inspectors' report to be evidence. A copy of any report of any inspector or inspectors appointed under section 235 or 237 authenticated in such manner, if any, as may be prescribed, shall be admissible in any legal proceeding as evidence of the opinion of the inspector or inspectors in relation to any matter contained in the report.
247.
(1) Investigation of ownership of company. Where it appears to the- Central
Government that there is good reason so to do, it may appoint one or more
inspectors to investigate and report on the membership of any company and
other
1\. Subs. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 78, for sub- section (3).
matters relating to the company, for the purpose of determining the true
persons-
(a) who are or have been financially interested in the success or failure,
whether real or apparent, of the company; or
(b) who are or have been able to control or materially to influence the policy
of the company.
(1A) 1 Without prejudice to its powers under this section, the Central
Government shall appoint one or more, inspectors under sub- section (1), if
the Company Law Board, in the course of any proceedings before it, declares by
an order that the affairs of the company ought to be investigated as regards
the membership of the company and other matters relating to the company, for
the purpose of determining the true persons-
(a) who are or have been financially interested in the success or failure,
whether real or apparent, of the company; or
(b) who are or have been able to control or materially to influence the policy
of the company.]
(2) When appointing an inspector under sub- section (1), the Cent- ral
Government may define the scope of his investigation, whether as respects the
matter or the period to which it is to extend or otherwise, and in particular,
may limit the investigation to matters connected with particular shares or
debuntures.
(3) Subject to the terms of an inspector' s appointment, his powers shall
extend to the investigation of any circumstances suggesting the existence of
any arrangement or understanding which, though hot legally binding, is or was
observed or is likely to be observed in practice and which is relevant to the
purposes of his investigation.
(4) Subject as aforesaid, the powers of the inspector shall also extend, where
the company has or at any time had a managing agent or secretaries and
treasurers,-
(a) in case such managing agent or secretaries and treasurers are or were a
body corporate, to the investigation of the ownership of the shares of such
body corporate, and of who the persons are or were who control or, manage or
controlled managed its affairs or;
(b) in case such managing agent or secretaries and treasurers are or were a
firm, to the investigation of who the persons are or were who control or
manage or controlled or managed its affairs as partners in the firm or
otherwise and of the respective interests therein of the partners; and
(c) in all cases, to the investigation of who the persons are or were who are
or were entitled to any share of, or any amount forming part of, the
remuneration of such managing agent or secretaries and treasurers.
(5) For the purposes of any investigation under this section, sections 239,
240 and 241 shall apply with the necessary modifications of references to the
affairs of the company or to those of any other
1\. Ins. by Act 31 of 1988, s. 41 (w. e. f. 31. 5. 1991 ).
body corporate or of any managing agent, secretaries and treasurers, or
associate: Provided that the said sections shall apply in relation to all
persons (including persons concerned only on behalf of others) who are or have
been, or whom the inspector has reasonable cause to believe to be or to have
been,-
(i) financially interested in the success or failure, or the apparent success
or failure, of the company, or of any other body corporate, managing agent,
secretaries and treasurers or associate whose membership or constitution is
investigated with that of the company; or
(ii) able to control or materially to influence the policy of such company,
body corporate, managing agent, secretaries and treasurers or associate; as
they apply in relation to 1 officers and other employees and agents] of the
company, of the other body corporate, or of the managing agent, secretaries
and treasurers or associate, as the case may be: Provided further that the-
Central Government shall not be bound to furnish the company or any other
person with a copy of any report by an inspector appointed under this section
or with a complete copy thereof, if it is of opinion that there is good reason
for not divulging the contents of the report or of parts thereof; but in such
a case, the Central Government shall cause to be kept by the Registrar a copy
of any such report, or as the case may be, of the parts thereof, as respects
which it is not of that opinion.
(6) The expenses of any investigation under this section shall be defrayed by
the Central Government out of money provided by Parliament, unless the Central
Government directs that the expenses or any part thereof should be paid by the
persons on whose application the investigation was ordered.
1\. Subs. by Act 65 of 1960, s, 79, for" officers and agents".
2\. Subs. by Act 31 of 1988, s. 42 (w. e. f. 31. 5. 1991 ).
1\. Subs. by Act 31 of 1988, s. 42 (w. e. f. 31. 5. 1991 ).
249. Investigation of associateship with managing agent, etc.
(1) Where any question arises as to whether any body corporate, firm, or
individual is or is not, or was or was not, an associate of the managing agent
or secretaries and treasurers of a company and it appears to the Central
Government that there is good reason to investigate such question, it may
either-
(a) appoint an inspector for the purpose of making the investigation; or
(b) if it considers it unnecessary to appoint an inspector as aforesaid,
require any person whom it has reasonable cause to believe to be in a position
to give relevant information in regard to the question, to furnish the Central
Government with information on such matters as may be specified by it.
(2) The provisions of section 247 shall apply mutatis mutandis to cases
falling under clause (a) of sub- section (1) and those of section 248 to cases
falling under clause (b) of that sub- section.
1\. Subs. by Act 31 of 1988, s. 43 (w. e. f. 31. 5. 1991 ).
1\. Subs. by Act 31 of 1988, s. 43 (w. e. f. 31. 5. 1991 ).
1\. Subs. by Act 31 of 1988, s. 43 (w. e. f. 31. 5. 1991 ).
2\. Omitted by s. 43, ibid.
251. Saving for legal advisers and bankers. Nothing in sections 234 to 250 shall require the disclosure to 2 Company Law Board or to the Central Government or to the Registrar or to an inspector appointed by Central Government]-
(a) by a legal adviser, of any privileged communication made to him in that
capacity, except as respects the name and address of his client; or
(b) by the bankers of any company, body corporate, managing agent, secretaries
and treasurers or other person, referred to in the sections aforesaid, as such
bankers, of any
1\. Ins. by Act 31 of 1965, s. 38 (w. e. f. 15. 10. 1965 ).
2\. Subs. by Act 31 of 1988, s. 44 (w. e. f. 31. 5. 1991 ).
information as to the affairs of any of their customers other than such
company, body corporate, managing agent, secretaries and treasurers or person.
CHAP Constitution of Board of Directors CHAPTER II.- DIRECTORS Constitution of
Board of Directors
252. Minimum number of directors.
(1) Every 1 public company (other than a public company which has become such
by virtue of section 43A)] 2 shall have at least three directors.
(2) Every 3 other] company 4 shall have at least two directors.
(3) The directors of a company collectively are referred to in this Act as
the" Board of directors" or" Board".
254. Subscribers of memorandum deemed to be directors. In default of and subject to any regulations in the articles of a company, subscribers of the memorandum who are individuals, shall be deemed to be the directors of the company, until the directors are duly appointed in accordance with section 255.
255. Appointment of directors and proportion of those who are to retire by rotation.
(1) 6 Unless the articles provide for the retirement of all directors at every
annual general meeting, not less than two- thirds] of the total number of
directors of a public company, or of a private company which is a subsidiary
of a public company, shall-
(a) be persons whose period of office is liable to determination by retirement
of directors by rotation; and
(b) save as otherwise expressly provided in this Act, be appointed by the
company in general meeting.
1\. Subs. by Act 31 of 1965, s. 29, for" public company" (w. e. f. 15- 10-
1965 ).
2\. The words" and every private company which is a subsidiary of a public
company" omitted by Act 65 of 1960, s. 81.
3\. Subs. by Act 31 of 1965, s. 29, for" private" (w. e. f. 15- 10- 1965 ).
4\. The words" which is not a subsidiary of a public company" omitted by Act
65 of 1960, s. 81.
5\. The words" public or private" omitted by s. 82, ibid.
6\. Subs. by s. 83, ibid., for" Not less than two- thirds".
(2) The remaining directors in the case of any such company, and the directors
generally in the case of a private company which is not a subsidiary of a
public company, shall, in default of and subject to any regulations in the
articles of the company, also be appointed by the company in general meeting,
256. Ascertainment of directors retiring by rotation and filling of vacancies.
(1) At the first annual general meeting of a public company, or a private
company which is a subsidiary of a public company, held next after the date of
the general meeting at which the first directors are appointed in accordance
with section 255 and at every subsequent annual general meeting, one- third of
such of the directors for the time being as are liable to retire by rotation,
or if their number is not three or a multiple of three, then, the number
nearest to one- third, shall retire from office.
(2) The directors to retire by rotation at every annual general meeting shall
be those who have been longest in office since their last appointment, but as
between persons who became directors on the same day, those who are to retire
shall, in default of and subject to any agreement among themselves, be
determined by lot.
(3) At the annual general meeting at which a director retires as aforesaid,
the company may fill up the vacancy by appointing the retiring director or
some other person thereto.
(4) (a) If the place of the retiring director is not so filled up and the
meeting has not expressly resolved not to fill the vacancy, the meeting shall
stand adjourned till the same day in the next week, at the same time and
place, or if that day is a public holiday, till the next succeeding day which
is not a public holiday, at the same time and place.
(b) If at the adjourned meeting also, the place of the retiring director is
not filled up and that meeting also has not expressly resolved not to fill the
vacancy, the retiring director shall be deemed to have been reappointed at the
adjourned meeting, unless-
(i) at that meeting or at the previous meeting a resolution for the
reappointment of such director has been put to the meeting and lost;
(ii) the retiring director has, by a notice in writing addressed to the
company. or its Board of directors, expressed his unwillingness to be so
reappointed;
(iii) he is not qualified or is disqualified for appointment;
(iv) a resolution, whether special or ordinary, is required for his
appointment or re- appointment in virtue of any pro- visions of this Act; or
(v) the proviso to sub- section (2) of section 263 1 is applicable to the
case. 2 3 Explanation.- In this section and in section 257, the expression"
retiring director" means a director retiring by rotation.]
257. Right of persons other than retiring directors to stand for directorship.
(1) A person who is not a retiring director shall, sub- ject to the provisions
of this Act, be eligible for appointment to the office of director at any
general meeting, if he or some member inte- nding to propose him, has not less
than fourteen days before the meeting, left at the office of the company a
notice in writing under his hand signifying his candidature for the office of
director or the intention of such member to propose him as a candidate for
that office, as the case may be 4 along with a deposit of five hundred rupees
which shall be refunded to such person or, as the case may be, to such member,
if the person succeeds in getting elected as a director.]
(1A) 5 The company shall inform its members of the candidature of a person for
the office of director or the intention of a member to propose such person as
a candidate for that office, by serving individual notices on the members not
less than seven days before the meeting: Provided that it shall not be
necessary for the company to serve individual notices upon the members as
aforesaid if the company advertises such candidature or intention not less
than seven days before the meeting in at least two newspapers circulating in
the place where the registered office of the company is located, of which one
is published in the English language and the other in the regional language of
that place.]
(2) Sub- section (1) shall not apply to a private company, unless it is a
subsidiary of a public company.
258. Right of company to increase or reduce the number of directors. 6 Subject to the provisions of sections 252, 255 and 259, a company in general meeting may, by ordinary resolution, increase or reduce the number of its directors within the limits fixed in that behalf by its articles.
1\. The words, brackets and figures" or sub- section (3) of section 280"
omitted by Act 31 of 1965, s. 3o (w. e. f. 15- 10- 1965 ).
2\. Sub- section (5) omitted by s. 30, ibid. (w. e. f. 15- 10- 1965 ),
3\. Ins. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 84.
4\. Added by Act 31 of 1988, s. 45 (w. e. f. 31- 5- 1988 ).
5\. Ins. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 85.
6\. The brackets and figure" (I)" omitted by Act 36 of 1957, s. 3 and Sch. II.
259. Increase in number of directors to require Government sanction. In the case of a public company or a private company which is a subsidiary of a public company, any increase in the number of its directors, except-
(a) in the case of a company which was in existence on the 21st day of July,
1951 , an increase which was within the permissible maximum under its articles
as in force on that date, and
(b) in the case of a company which came or may come into existence after that
date, an increase which is within the permissible maximum under its articles
as first registered, shall not have any effect unless approved by the Central
Government; and shall become void if, and in so far as, it is disapproved by
that Government: 1 Provided that where such. permissible maximum is twelve or
less than twelve, no approval of the Central Government shall be required if
the increase in the number of its directors does not make the total number of
its directors more than twelve.]
260. Additional directors. Nothing in section 255, 258 or 259 shall affect any power conferred on the Board of directors by the articles to appoint additional directors: Provided that such additional directors shall hold office only to the date of the next annual general meeting of the company: Provided further that the number of the directors and additional directors together shall not exceed the maximum strength fixed for the Board by the articles.
261. Certain persons not to be appointed directors, except by special resolution.
(1) If a public company, or a private company which is a subsidiary of a
public company, has a managing agent and such managing agent is authorized by
the articles or by an agreement to appoint any director to the Board, 2 none
of the following persons shall be appointed--
(i) as a director of the company whose period of office is liable to
determination by retirement of directors by rotation, or
(ii) to fill a casual vacancy in the office of a director under section 262,
or
1\. Added by Act 31 of 1965, s. 31 (w. e. f. 15- 10- 1965 ).
2\. Subs. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 86, for certain words.
(iii) as an additional director under section 260, or
(iv) as an alternate director under section 313, except by a special
resolution passed by the company:-]
(a) any person who is an officer or employee of, or who holds any office or
place of profit under, the company or any subsidiary thereof: Provided that
nothing in this clause shall apply to the director of such company or
subsidiary, or to the holder of any office or place of profit under such
company or subsidiary which may be held by a director of the company by virtue
of section 314;
(b) where any office or place of profit which would disqualify a person under
clause (a), read with the proviso thereto. is held by any firm, any partner
in, or employee of, the firm;
(c) where any such office or place of profit is held by a private company, any
member, officer or employee of such com- pany;
(d) where any such office or place of profit is held by a body corporate, any
officer or employee of such body cor- porate;
(e) any person who is entitled, by virtue of any agreement, to any share of,
or any amount out of, the remuneration received by the managing agent; any
associate, or officer or employee, of the managing agent; or
(g) any person who is an officer or employee of, or who holds any office or
place of profit under, any body corporate under the management of the managing
agent or any subsidiary of such body corporate: Provided that nothing in
clause (g) shall apply to the director of such body corporate or subsidiary or
to the holder of any office or place of profit under such body corporate or
subsidiary which may be held by a director of such body corporate by virtue of
section 314.
(2) Special notice shall be required of any resolution appointing, or
approving the appointment of, any person referred to in clauses (a) to (g) of
sub- section (1), 1 as director or an additional or
1\. Subs. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 86, for" as a director of the company".
alternate director of the company or to fill a casual vacancy in the office of
a director under section 262].
(3) The notice given to the company, of any such resolution, and the notice
thereof given by the company to its members, shall set out the reasons which
make the resolution necessary.
(4) Nothing in this section shall be deemed to prevent any director holding
any office immediately before the commencement of this Act from continuing to
hold that office up to the next annual general meeting of the company.
262. Filling of casual vacancies among directors.
(1) In the case of a public company or a private company which is a subsidiary
of a public company, if the office of any director appointed by the company in
general meeting is vacated before his term of office will expire in the normal
course, the resulting casual vacancy may, in default of and subject to any
regulations in the articles of the company, be filled by the Board of
directors at a meeting of the Board.
(2) Any person so appointed shall hold office only up to the date up to which
the director in whose place he is appointed would have held office if it had
not been vacated as aforesaid.
263. Appointment of directors to be voted on individually.
(1) At a general meeting of a public company or of a private company which is
a subsidiary of a public company, a motion shall not be made for the
appointment of two or more persons as directors of the company by a single
resolution, unless a resolution that it shall be so made has first been agreed
to by the meeting without any vote being given against it.
(2) A resolution moved in contravention of sub- section (1) shall be void,
whether or not objection was taken at the time to its being so moved: Provided
that where a resolution so moved is passed, no provision for the automatic
reappointment of 1 the director retiring by rota- tion] in default of another
appointment shall apply.
(3) For the purposes of this section a motion for approving a persons
appointment, or for nominating a person for appointment, shall be treated as a
motion for his appointment.
Sections 177, 255, 256 and 263 not to apply in relation to companiesnot
carrying business for profit, etc.
263A. 2 Sections 177, 255, 256 and 263 not to apply in relation to companies
not carrying business for profit, etc. Nothing contained in sections 177, 255,
256 and 263 shall affect any provision in the articles of a company for the
1\. Subs. by Act 65 of 1960, s 87 for" retiring directors".
2\. Ins. by s. 88, ibid.
election by ballot of all its directors at each annual general meeting if such
company does not carry on business for profit or prohibits the payment of a
dividend to its members.]
264. 1 Consent of candidate for directorship to be filed with the company and consent to act as director to be filed with the Registrar.
(1) Every person ( 2 other than a director retiring by rotation or otherwise
or a person] who has left at the office of the company a notice under section
257 signifying his candidature for the office of a director) proposed as a
candidate for the office of a director shall sign, and file with the company,
his consent in writing to act as a director, if appointed.
(2) 3 A person other than-
(a) a director re- appointed after retirement by rotation or immediately on
the expiry of his term of office, or
(b) an additional or alternate director, or a person filling a casual vacancy
in the office of a director under section 262, appointed as a director or re-
appointed as an additional or alternate director, immediately on the expiry of
his term of office, or
(c) a person named as a director of the company under its articles as first
registered, shall not act as a director of the company unless he has within
thirty days of his appointment signed and filed with the Registrar his con-
sent in writing to act as such director.]
(3) This section shall not apply to a private company unless it is a
subsidiary of a public company.]
265. Option to company to adopt proportional representation for the appointment of directors. Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, the articles of a company may provide for the appointment of not less than two- thirds of the total number of the directors of a public company or of a private company which is a subsidiary of a public company, according to the principle of proportional representation, whether by the single transferable vote or by a system of cumulative voting or otherwise, the appointments being made once in every three years and interim casual vacancies being filled in accordance with the provisions, mutatis mutandis, of section 262.
266. Restrictions on appointment or advertisement of director.
(1) A person shall not be capable of being appointed director of a company by
the articles, and shall not be named as a director
1\. Subs by Act 65 of 1960, s. 89, for s. 264.
2\. Subs. by Act 31 of 1965, s. 32, for" other than a person" (w. e. f. 15-
10- 1965 ),
3\. Subs. by s. 32, ibid., for sub- section (2) (w. e. f. 15- 10- 1965 ).
or proposed director of a company in a prospectus issued by or on behalf of
the company, or as proposed director of an intended company in a prospectus
issued in relation to that intended company, or in a statement in lieu of
prospectus filed with the Registrar by or on behalf of a company, unless,
before the registration of the articles. the publication of the prospectus, or
the filing of the statement in lieu of prospectus, as the case may be, he has,
by himself or by his agent authorised in writing,-
(a) signed and filed with the Registrar a consent in writing to act as such
director; and
(b) either-
(i) signed the memorandum for shares not being less in number or value than
that of his qualification shares, if any; or
(ii) taken his qualification shares, if any, from the company and paid or
agreed to pay for them; or
(iii) signed and filed with the Registrar an undertaking in writing to take
from the company his qualification shares if any, and pay for them; or
(iv) made and filed with the Registrar an affidavit to the effect that shares,
not being less in number or value than that of his qualification shares, if
any, are registered in his name.
(2) Where a person has signed and filed as aforesaid an under- taking to take
and pay for his qualification shares, he shall, as regards those shares, be in
the same position as if he had signed the memorandum for shares of that number
or value.
(3) References in this section to the share qualification of a director or
proposed director shall be construed as including only a share qualification
required within a period determined by reference to the time of appointment,
and references therein to, qualification shares shall be construed
accordingly. 1
1\. Sub- section (4) omitted by Act 31 of 1965, s. 33 (w. e. f. 15- 10- 1965
).
(5) This section shall not apply to-
(a) a company not having a share capital;
(b) a private company;
(c) a company which was a private company before becoming a public company; or
(d) a prospectus issued by or on behalf of a company after the expiry of one
year from the date on which the company was entitled to commence business.
Managing Directors, etc.
267. Certain persons not to be appointed managing directors. No company shall, after the commencement of this Act, appoint or employ, or continue the appointment or employment of, any person as its managing or whole- time director who-
(a) is an undischarged insolvent, or has at any time been adjudged an
insolvent;
(b) suspends, or has at any time suspended, payment to his creditors, or
makes, or has at any time made, a composition with them; or
(c) is or has at any time been, convicted by a Court 1 of an offence involving
moral turpitude.
268. Amendment of provision relating to managing, whole time or non- rotational directors to require Government approval. In the case of a public company or a private company which is a subsidiary of a public company, an amendment of any provision relating to the appointment or re- appointment of a managing or whole- time director or of a director not liable to retire by rotation, whether, that provision be contained in the company' s memorandum or articles, or in an agreement entered into by it, or in any resolution passed by the company in general meeting or by its Board of directors, shall not have any effect unless approved by the Central Government; and the amendment shall become void if, and in so far as, it is disapproved by that Government.
1\. The words" in India" omitted by Act 65 of 1960, s. 90.
269. 4 Appointment of managing or whole- time director or manager to require Government approval only in certain cases.
(1) On and from the commencement of the Companies (Amendment) Act, 1988 ,
every public company, or a private company which is a subsidiary of a public
company, having a paid up share capital of such sum as may be prescribed,
shall have a managing or whole- time director or a manager.
(2) On and from the commencement of the Companies (Amendment) Act, 1988 , no
appointment of a person as a managing or whole- time director or a manager in
a public company or a private company which is a subsidiary of a public
company shall be made except with the approval of the Central Government
unless such appointment is made in accordance with the conditions specified in
Parts I and II of Schedule XIII (the said Parts being subject to the
provisions of Part III of that Schedule) and a return in the prescribed form
is filed within ninety days from the date of such appointment.
(3) Every application seeking approval to the appointment of a managing or
whole- time director or a manager shall be made to the CentralGovernment
within a period of ninety days from the date of such appointment.
(4) The Central Government shall not accord its approval to an application
made under sub- section (3), if it is satisfied that-
(a) the managing or whole- time director or the manager appointed is, in its
opinion, not a fit and proper person to be appointed as such or such
appointment is not in the public interest; or
(b) the terms and conditions of the appointment of managing or whole time
director or the manager are not fair and: reasonable.
(5) It shall be competent for the Central Government while according approval
to an appointment under sub- section (3) to accord approval for a period
lesser than the period for which the appointment is proposed to be made.
(6) If the appointment of a person as a managing or wholetime director or a
manager is not approved by the Central Government under sub- section (4), the
person so appointed shall vacate his office as such managing or whole- time
director or manager on the date on which the decision of the Central
Government is communicated to the company, and if he omits or fails to do so,
he shall be punishable with fine which may extend to five hundred rupees for
every day during which he omits or fails to vacate such office.
(7) Where the Central Government suo motu or on any information received by it
is, prima facie, of the opinion that any appointment made under sub- section
(2) without the approval of the Central Government has been made in
contravention of the requirements of Schedule XIII, it shall be competent for
the Central Government to refer the matter to the Company Law Board for
decision.
(8) The Company Law Board shall, on receipt of a reference under sub- section
(7), issue a notice to the company, the managing or whole- time director or
the manager, as the case may be, and the director or other officer responsible
for complying with the requirements of Schedule XIII, to show cause as to why
such appointment shall not be terminated and the penalties provided under sub-
section (10) shall not be imposed.
(9) The Company Law Board shall, if, after giving a reasonable opportunity to
the company, the managing or whole- time director or the manager, or the
officer who is in default, as the case may be, comes to the conclusion that
the appointment has been made in contravention of the requirements of Schedule
XIII, make an order declaring that a contravention of the requirements of
Schedule XIII has taken place.
(10) On the making of an order by the Company Law Board under sub- section
(9),- (a) the company shall be liable to a fine which may extend to five
thousand rupees;
(b) every officer of the company who is in default shall be liable to a fine
of ten thousand rupees; and
(c) the appointment of the managing or whole- time director or manager, as the
case may be, shall be deemed to have come to an end and the person so
appointed shall, in addition to being liable to pay a fine of ten thousand
rupees, refund to the company the entire amount of salaries, commissions and
perquisites received or enjoyed by him between the date of his appointment and
the passing of such order.
(11) If a company contravenes the provisions of sub- section (10) or any
direction given by the Company Law Board under that sub- section, every
officer of the company who is in default and the managing or whole- time
director or the manager, as the case may be, shall be punishable with
imprisonment for a term which may extend to three years and shall also be
liable to a fine which may extend to fifty rupees for every day of default.
(12) All acts, done by a managing or whole- time director or a manager, as the
case may be, purporting to act in such capacity and whose appointment has been
found to be in contravention of Schedule XIII, shall, if the acts so done are
valid otherwise be valid notwithstanding any order made by the Company Law
Board under sub- section (9). Explanation.- In this section" appointment"
includes reappointment and" whole- time director" includes a director in the'
whole- time employment of the company]
1\. Subs. by Act 31 of 1988, s. 46 (w. e. f. 15. 6. 1988 ).
Share qualifications
270. Time within which share qualification is to be obtained and maximum amount thereof.
(1) Without prejudice to the restrictions imposed by section 266, it shall be
the duty of every director who is required by the articles of the company to
hold a specified share qualification and who is not already qualified in that
respect, to obtain his qualification within two months after his appointment
as director.
(2) Any provision in the articles of the company (whether made before or after
the commencement of this Act) shall be void in so far as it requires a person
to hold the qualification shares before his appointment as a director or to
obtain them within a shorter time than two months after his appointment as
such.
(3) The nominal value of the qualification shares shall not exceed five
thousand rupees, or the nominal value of one share where it exceeds five
thousand rupees.
(4) For the purpose of any provision in the articles requiring a director to
hold a specified share qualification, the bearer of a share warrant shall not
be deemed to be the holder of the shares specified in the warrant.
271. [ Filing of declaration of share qualification by director.] Rep. bythe Companies (Amendment) Act, 1965 (31 of 1965 ), s. 34 (w. e. f. 15- 10- 1965 ).
272. Penalty. If, after the expiry of the said period of two months, any person acts as a director of the company when he does not hold the qualification shares referred to in section 270, he shall be punishable with fine which may extend to fifty rupees for every day between such expiry and the last day on which he acted as a director.
273. Saving. Sections 270 1 and 272] shall not apply to a private company, unless it is a subsidiary of a public company. Disqualifications of Directors
274. Disqualifications of directors.
(1) A person shall not be capable of being appointed director of a company,
if-
(a) he has been found to be of unsound mind by a Court of competent
jurisdiction and the finding is in force;
(b) he is an undischarged insolvent;
(c) he has applied to be adjudicated as an insolvent and his application is
pending;
(d) he has been convicted by a Court 2 of any offence involving moral
turpitude and sentenced in respect thereof to imprisonment for not less than
six months, and a period of five years has not elapsed from the date of expiry
of the sentence:
(e) he has not paid any call in respect of shares of the company held by him,
whether alone or jointly with others, and six months have elapsed from the
last day fixed for the payment of the call; or
(f) an order disqualifying him for appointment as director has been passed by
a Court in pursuance of section 203 and is in force, unless the leave of the
Court has been obtained for his appointment in pursuance of that section.
(2) The Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette,
remove-
(a) the disqualification incurred by any person in virtue of clause (d) of
sub- section (1), either generally or in
1\. Subs. by Act 31 of 1965, s. 35. for" to 272" (w. e. f. 15- 10- 1965 ).
2\. The words" in India" omitted by Act 65 of 1960, s. 93.
relation to any company or companies specified in the notification; or
(b) the disqualification incurred by any person in virtue of clause (e) of
sub- section (1).
(3) A private company which is not a subsidiary of a public com- pany may, by
its articles, provide that a person shall be disqualified for appointment as a
director on any grounds in addition to those specified in sub- section (1).
Restrictions on number of directorships
275. No person to be a director of more than twenty companies. After the commencement of this Act, no person shall, save as otherwise provided in section 276, hold office at the same time as director in more than twenty companies.
276. Choice to be made by director of more than twenty companies at commencement of Act.
(1) Any person holding office as director in more than twenty companies
immediately before the commencement of this Act shall, within two months from
such commencement,-
(a) choose not more than twenty of those companies, as companies in which he
wishes to continue to hold the office of director;
(b) resign his office as director in the other companies; and
(c) intimate the choice made by him under clause (a) to each of the companies
in which he was holding the office of director before such commencement, to
the Registrar having jurisdiction in respect of each such company, and also to
the Central Government.
(2) Any resignation made in pursuance of clause (b) of sub- section (1) shall
become effective immediately on the despatch thereof to the company concerned.
(3) No such person shall act as director-
(a) in more than twenty companies, after the expiry of two months from the
commencement of this Act; or
(b) of any company after despatching the resignation of his office as director
thereof, in pursuance of clause (b) of sub- section (1).
277. Choice by person becoming director of more than twenty companies after commencement of Act.
(1) Where a person already holding the office of director in twenty companies
is appointed, after the commencement of this Act, as a director of any other
company, the appointment-
(a) shall not take effect unless such person has, within fifteen days thereof,
effectively vacated his office as director in any of the Companies in which he
was already a director; and
(b) shall become void immediately on the expiry of the fifteen days if he has
not, before such expiry, effectively vacated his office as director in any of
the other companies aforesaid.
(2) Where a person already holding the office of director in nineteen
companies or less is appointed, after the commencement of this Act, as a
director of other companies, making the total number of his directorships more
than twenty, he shall choose the directorships which he wishes to continue to
hold or to accept, so however that the total number of the directorships, old
and new, held by him shall not exceed twenty. None of the new appointments of
director shall take effect until such choice is made; and all the new
appointments shall become void if the choice is not made within fifteen days
of the day on which the last of them was made.
278. Exclusion of certain directorships for the purposes of sections 275, 276 and 277.
(1) In calculating, for the purposes of sections 275, 276 and 277, the number
of companies of which a person may be a director, the following companies
shall be excluded, namely:-
(a) a private company which is neither a subsidiary nor a holding company of a
public company;
(b) an unlimited company;
(c) an association not carrying on business for profit or which prohibits the
payment of a dividend;
(d) a company in which such person is only an alternate director, that is to
say, a director who is only qualified to act as such during the absence or
incapacity of some other director.
(2) in making the calculation aforesaid, any company referred to in clauses
(a), (b) and (c) of sub- section (1) shall be excluded for a period of three
months from the date on which the company ceases to fall within the purview of
those clauses.
279. Penalty. Any person who holds office, or acts, as a director of more than twenty companies in contravention of the foregoing provisions shall be punishable with fine which may extend to five thousand rupees in respect of each of those companies after the first twenty. Retiring age of Directors
281. [ Age limit not to apply if Company so resolves.] Rep. by s. 37, ibid. (w. e. f. 15- 10- 1965 ).
282. Duty of director to disclose age.] Rep. by the Companies amendment Act, 1965 (31 of 1965 ), s. 38 w. e. f. 15- 10- 1965 . Vacation of Office by Directors
283. Vacation of office by directors.
(1) 1 The office of a director shall become vacant if-]
(a) he fails to obtain within the time specified in sub- section (1) of
section 270, or at any time thereafter ceases to hold, the share
qualification, if any, required of him by the articles of the company;
(b) he is found to be of unsound mind by a Court of competent jurisdiction;
(c) he applies to be adjudicated an insolvent;
(d) he is adjudged an insolvent;
(e) 2 he is convicted by a Court of any offence involving moral turpitude and
sentenced in respect thereof to imprisonment for not less than six months;]
(f) he fails to pay any call in respect of shares of the company held by him,
whether alone or jointly with others, within six months from the last date
fixed for the payment of the call 3 unless the Central Government has, by
notification in the Official Gazette, removed the disquali- fication incurred
by such failure];
(g) he absents himself from three consecutive meetings of the Board of
directors, or from all meetings of the Board for a continuous period of three
months, whichever is longer, without obtaining leave of absence from the
Board;
(h) 4 he (whether by himself or by any person for his benefit or on his
account), or any firm in which] he is a partner or any private company of
which he is a director, accepts a loan, or any guarantee or security for a
loan, from the company in contravention of section 295;
(i) he acts in contravention of section 299;
1\. Subs. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 95, for certain words.
2\. Subs. by s. 95, ibid., for cl. (e).
3\. ins. by s. 95, ibid.
4\. Subs, by s. 95, ibid., for" he, or any firm in which".
(j) he becomes disqualified by an order of Court under section 203; 1
(k) he is removed in pursuance of section 284; 2 or
(l) having been appointed a director by virtue of his holding any office or
other employment in the company, or as a nominee of the managing agent of the
company, he ceases to hold such office or other employment in the company or,
as the case may be, the managing agency comes to an end.]
(2) Notwithstanding anything in clauses (d), (e) and (j) of sub- section (1),
the disqualification referred to in those clauses shall not take effect-
(a) for thirty days from the date of the adjudication, sentence or order;
(b) where any appeal or petition is preferred within the thirty days aforesaid
against the adjudication, sentence or conviction resulting in the sentence, or
order until the expiry of seven days from the date on which such appeal or
petition is disposed of; or
(c) where within seven days aforesaid, any further appeal or petition is
preferred in respect of the adjudication, sentence, conviction, or order, and
the appeal or petition, if allowed, would result in the removal of the
disquali- fication, until such further appeal or petition is disposed of.
(2A) 2 Subject to the provisions of sub- sections (1) and (2), if a person
functions as a director when he knows that the office of director held by him
has become vacant on account of any of the disqualifications, specified in the
several clauses of sub- section (1), he shall be punishable with fine which
may extend to five hundred rupees for each day on which he so functions as a
director.]
(3) A private company which is not a subsidiary of a public com- pany may, by
its articles, provide, that the office of director shall be vacated on any
grounds in addition to those specified in sub- section (1).
1\. The word" or" omitted by Act 65 of 1960, s. 95.
2\. Ins. by. s. 95, ibid.
284. Removal of directors.
(1) A company may, by ordinary resolution, remove a director (not being a
director appointed by the Central Government in pursuance of section 408)
before the expiry of his period of office: Provided that this sub- section
shall not, in the case of a private company, authorise the removal of a
director holding office for life on the 1st day of April, 1952 , whether or
not he is subject to retirement under an age limit by virtue of the articles
or otherwise: Provided further that nothing contained in this sub- section
shall apply where the company has availed itself of the option given to it
under section 265 to appoint not less than two- thirds of the total number of
directors according to the principle of proportional re- presentation.
(2) Special notice shall be required of any resolution to remove a director
under this section, or to appoint somebody instead of a director so removed at
the meeting at which he is removed.
(3) On receipt of notice of a resolution to remove a director under this
section, the company shall forthwith send a copy thereof to the director
concerned, and the director (whether or not he is a member of the company)
shall- be entitled to be heard on the resolution at the meeting.
(4) Where notice is given of a resolution to remove a director under this
section and the director concerned makes with respect thereto representations
in writing to the company (not exceeding a reasonable length) and requests
their notification to members of the company, the company shall, unless the
representations are received by it too late for it to do so,-
(a) in any notice of the resolution given to members of the company state the
fact of the representations having been made; and
(b) send a copy of the representations to every member of the company to whom
notice of the meeting is sent (whether before or after receipt of the
representations by the company); and if a copy of the representations is not
sent as aforesaid because they were received too late or because of the
company' s default, the director may (without prejudice to his right to be
heard orally) require that the representations shall be read out at the
meeting: Provided that copies of the representations need not be sent out and
the representations need not be read out at the meeting if, on
the application either of the company or of any other person who claims to be
aggrieved, the 1 Company Law Board] is satisfied that the right conferred by
this sub- section are being abused to secure nee- dless publicity for
defamatory matter; and 1 Company Law Board] may order the company' s costs on
the application to be paid in whole or in part by the director notwithstanding
that he is not a party to it.
(5) A vacancy created by the removal of a director under this section may, if
he had been appointed by the company in general meeting or by the Board in
pursuance of section 262, be filled by the appointment of another director in
his stead by the meeting at which he is removed, provided special notice of
the intended appointment has been given under sub- section (2). A director so
appointed shall hold office until the date up to which his predecessor would
have held office if he had not been removed as aforesaid.
(6) If the vacancy is not filled under sub- section (5), it may be filled as a
casual vacancy in accordance with the provisions, so far as they may be
applicable, of section 262, and all the provisions of that section shall apply
accordingly: Provided that the director who was removed from office shall not
be re- appointed as a director by the Board of directors.
(7) Nothing in this section shall be taken-
(a) as depriving a person removed thereunder of any compensation or damages
payable to him in respect of the termination of his appointment as director or
of any appointment terminating with that as director; or
(b) as derogating from any power to remove a director which may exist apart
from this section. Meetings of Board
285. 1 Board to meet at least once in every three calendar months. In the case of every company, a meeting of its Board of directors shall be held at least once in every 3 three months and atleast four such meetings shall be held in every year] Provided that the Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, direct that the provisions of this section shall not apply in relation to any class of companies or shall apply in relation thereto subject to such exceptions, modifications or conditions as may be specified in the notification.]
1\. Subs. by Act 31 of 1988, s. 67 (w. e. f. 31. 5. 1991 ).
2\. Subs. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 96, for s. 285.
3\. Subs. by Act 31 of 1965 s. 39 for certain in words
286. Notice of meetings.
(1) Notice of every meeting of the Board of directors of a company shall be
given in writing to every director for the time being in India, and at his
usual address in India to every other director.
(2) Every officer of the company whose duty it is to give notice as aforesaid
and who fails to do so shall be punishable with fine which may extend to one
hundred rupees.
287. Quorum for meetings.
(1) In this section-
(a) " total strength" means the total strength of the Board of directors of a
company as determined in pursuance of this Act, after deducting therefrom the
number of the directors, if any, whose places may be vacant at the time; and
(b) " interested director" means any director whose presence cannot, by reason
of section 300, count for the purpose of forming a quorum at a meeting of the
Board, at the time of the discussion or vote on any matter.
(2) The quorum for a meeting of the Board of directors of a company shall be
one- third of its total strength (any fraction con- tained in that one- third
being rounded off as one), or two directors, whichever is higher: Provided
that where at any time the number of interested directors exceeds or is equal
to two- thirds of the total strength, the number of the remaining directors,
that is to say, the number of the directors who are not interested, I[ present
at the meeting being not less than two], shall be the quorum during such time.
288. Procedure where meeting adjourned for want of quorum.
(1) If a meeting of the Board could not be held for want of quorum, then,
unless the articles otherwise provide, the meeting shall automatically stand
adjourned till the same day in the next week, at the same time and place, or
if that day is a public holiday, till the next succeeding day which is not a
public holiday, at the same time and place.
(2) The provisions of section 285 shall not be deemed to have been contravened
merely by reason of the fact that a meeting of the
1\. Ins. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 97.
Board which had been called in compliance with the terms of that section could
not be held for want of a quorum.
289. Passing of resolutions by circulation. No resolution shall be deemed to have been duly passed by the Board or by a committee thereof by circulation, unless the resolution has been circulated in draft, together with the necessary papers, if any, to all the directors, or to all the members of the committee, then in India (not being less in number than the quorum fixed for a meeting of the Board or committee, as the case may be), and to all other directors or members at their usual address in India, and has been approved by such of the directors as are then in India, or by a majority of such of them, as are entitled to vote on the Resolution.
290. Validity of acts of directors. Acts done by a person as a director shall be valid, notwithstanding that it may afterwards be discovered that his appointment was invalid by reason of any defect or disqualification or had terminated by virtue of any provision contained in this Act or in the articles: Provided that nothing in this section shall be deemed to give validity to acts done by a director after his appointment has been shown to the company to be invalid or to have terminated. Board' s powers and restrictions thereon
291. General powers of Board.
(1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Board of directors of a company
shall be entitled to exercise all such powers, and to do all such acts and
things, as the company is authorised to exercise and do: Provided that the
Board shall not exercise any power or do any act or thing which is directed or
required, whether by this or any other Act or by the memorandum or articles of
the company or otherwise, to be exercised or done by the company in general
meeting: Provided further that in exercising any such power or doing any such
act or thing, the Board shall be subject to the provisions con- tained in that
behalf in this or any other Act, or in the memorandum or articles of the
company, or in any regulations not inconsistent therewith and duly made
thereunder, including regulation made by the company in general meeting.
(2) No regulation made by the company in general meeting shall invalidate any
prior act of the Board which would have been valid if that regulation had not
been made.
292. Certain powers to be exercised by Board only at meeting.
(1) The Board of directors of a company shall exercise the following powers on
behalf of the company, and it shall do so only by means of resolutions passed
at meetings of the Board:-
(a) the power to make calls on shareholders in respect of money unpaid on
their shares;
(b) the power to issue debentures;
(c) the power to borrow moneys otherwise than on debentures;
(d) the power to invest the funds of the company; and
(e) the power to make loans: 1 Provided that the Board may, by a resolution
passed at a meeting, delegate to any committee of directors, the managing
director, the managing agent, secretaries and treasurers, the manager or any
other principal officer of the company or in the case of a branch office of
the company, a principal officer of the branch office, the powers specified in
clauses (c), (d) and (e) to the extent specified in sub- sections (2), (3) and
(4) respectively, on such conditions as the Board may prescribe: Provided
further that the acceptance by a banking company in the ordinary course of its
business of deposits of money from the public repayable on demand or otherwise
and withdrawable by cheque, draft, order or otherwise, or the placing of
moneys on deposit by a banking company with another banking company on such
conditions as the Board may prescribe, shall not be deemed to be a borrowing
of moneys or, as the case may be, a making of loans by a banking company
within the meaning of this section. Explanation I. Nothing in clause (c) of
sub- section (1) shall apply to borrowings by a banking company from other
banking companies or from the Reserve Bank of India, the State Bank of India
or any other banks established by or under any Act. Explanation II.- In
respect of dealings between a company and its bankers, the exercise by the
company of the power specified in clause (c) of sub- section (1) shall mean
the arrangement made by the company with its bankers for the borrowing of
money by way of overdraft or cash credit or otherwise and not the actual day
to day
1\. Subs. by Act 65 of 1960, a. 98, for the proviso.
operation on overdraft, cash credit or other accounts by means of which the
arrangement so made is actually availed of.]
(2) Every resolution delegating the power referred to in clause (c) of sub-
section (1) shall specify the total amount 1 outstanding at any one time] up
to which moneys may be borrowed by the delegate.
(3) Every resolution delegating the power referred to in clause (d) of
subsection (1) shall specify the total amount up to which the funds may be
invested, and the nature of the investments which may be made, by the
delegate.
(4) Every resolution delegating the power referred to in clause (e) of sub-
section (1) shall specify the total amount up to which loans may be made by
the delegate, the purposes for which the loans may be made, and the maximum
amount of loans which may be made for each such purpose in individual cases.
(5) Nothing in this section shall be deemed to affect the right of the company
in general meeting to impose restrictions and conditions on the exercise by
the Board of any of the powers specified in subsection (1).
293. Restrictions on powers of Board.
(1) The Board of directors of a public company, or of a private company which
is a subsidiary of a public company, shall not, except with the consent of
such public company or subsidiary in general meeting,-
(a) sell, lease or otherwise dispose of the whole, or substantially the whole,
of the undertaking of the company, or where the company owns more than one
undertaking, of the whole, or substantially the whole, of any such
undertaking;
(b) remit, or give time for the re- payment of, any debt due by a director 2
except in the case of renewal or continuance of an advance made by a banking
company to its director in the ordinary course of business];
(c) invest, otherwise than in trust securities, 3 the amount of compensation
received by the company in respect of the compulsory acquisition, after the
commencement of this Act], of any such undertaking as is referred to in clause
(a), or of any premises or properties used for any such
1\. Ins. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 98.
2\. Ins. by s. 99, ibid.
3\. Subs. by s. 99, ibid., for certain words.
undertaking and without which it cannot be carried on or can be carried on
only with difficulty or only after a considerable time;
(d) borrow moneys after the commencement of this Act, where the moneys to be
borrowed, together with the moneys already borrowed by the company (apart from
temporary loans obtained from the company' s bankers in the ordinary course of
business), will exceed the aggregate of the paid- up capital of the company
and its free reserves, that is to say, reserves not set apart for any specific
purpose; or
(e) contribute, after the commencement of this Act, to charitable and other
funds not directly relating to the business of the company or the welfare of
its employees, any amounts the aggregate of which will, in any financial year,
exceed 1 fifty thousand rupees] or five per cent. of its average net profits
as determined in accordance with the provisions of sections 349 and 350 during
the three financial years immediately preceding, whichever is greater. 2
Explanation I. Every resolution passed by the company in general meeting in
relation to the exercise of the power referred to in clause (d) or in clause
(e) shall specify the total amount up to which moneys may be borrowed by the
Board of directors under clause (d) or as the case may be, the total amount
which may be contributed to charitable and other funds in any financial year
under clause (e). Explanation II.- The expression" temporary loans" in clause
(d) means loans repayable on demand or within six months from the date of the
loan such as short term, cash credit arrangements, the discounting of bills
and the issue of other short term loans of a seasonal character, but does not
include loans raised for the purpose of financing expenditure of a capital
nature.] Explanation 3 III].- Where a portion of a financial year of, he
company falls before the commencement of this Act, and a portion falls after
such commencement, the latter portion shall be deemed to
1\. Subs. by Act 46 of 1977, s. 6, for the words" twenty- five thousand
rupees".
2\. Ins. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 99.
3\. Former Explanation I re- numbered as Explanation III by s. 99, ibid.
be financial year within the meaning, and for the purposes, of clause (e).
(2) Nothing contained in clause (a) of sub- section (1) shall affect-
(a) the title of a buyer or other person who buys or takes a lease of any such
undertaking as is referred to in that clause, in good faith and after
exercising due care and caution: or
(b) the selling or leasing of any property of the company where the ordinary
business of the company consists of, or comprises, such selling or leasing.
(3) Any resolution passed by the company permitting any transaction such as is
referred to in clause (a) of sub- section (1) may attach such conditions to
the permission as may be specified in the resolution, including conditions
regarding the use, disposal or inves- tment of the sale proceeds which may
result from the transaction: Provided that this sub- section shall not be
deemed to authorise the effect any reduction in its capital except in
accordance with the provisions contained in that behalf in this Act.
(4) The acceptance by a banking company, in the ordinary course of its
business, of deposits of money from the public, repayable on demand or
otherwise, and withdrawable by cheque, draft, order or otherwise, shall not be
deemed to be a borrowing of moneys by the banking company within the meaning
of clause (d) of sub- section (1).
(5) No debt incurred by the company in excess of the limit imposed by clause
(d) of sub- section (1) shall be valid or effectual, unless the lender proves
that he advanced the loan in good faith and without knowledge that the limit
imposed by that clause had been exceeded. 1 Political contributions
Prohibitions and restrictions regarding political contributions.
293A. Prohibitions and restrictions regarding political contributions.
(1) Notwithstanding anything contained in any other provision of this Act,-
(a) no Government company; and
(b) no other company which has been in existence for less than three financial
years, shall contribute any amount or amounts, directly or indirectly,-
(i) to any political party; or
(ii) for any political purpose to any person.
(2) A company, not being a company referred to in clause (a) or clause (b) of
sub- section (1), may contribute any amount or amounts, directly or
indirectly,-
(a) to any political party, or
(b) for any political purpose to any person: Provided that the amount or, as
the case may be, the aggregate of the amounts which may be so contributed by a
company in any financial year shall not exceed five per cent. of its average
net profits determined in accordance with the provisions of sections 349 and
350 during the three immediately preceding financial years. Explanation.-
Where a portion of a financial year of the company falls before, the
commencement of the Companies (Amendment) Act, 1985 , and a portion falls
after such commencement, the latter portion shall be deemed to be a financial
year within the meaning, and for the purposes, of this sub- section: Provided
further that no such contribution shall be made by a company unless a
resolution authorising the making of such contribution is passed at a meeting
of the Board of Directors and such resolution shall, subject to the other
provisions of this section, be deemed to be justification in law for the
making and the acceptance of the contribution authorised by it.
(3) Without prejudice to the generality of the provisions of sub- sections (1)
and (2),-
(a) a donation or subscription or payment caused to be given by a company on
its behalf or on its account to a person who, to its knowledge, is carrying on
any activity which, at the time at which such donation or subscription or
payment was given or made, can reasonably be regarded as likely to effect
public support for a political party shall also be deemed to be contribution
of the amount of such donation, subscription or payment to such person for a
political purpose;
(b) the amount of expenditure incurred, directly or indirectly, by a company
on advertisement in any publication (being a publication in the nature of a
souvenir, brochure, tract, pamphlet or the like) by or on behalf of a
political party or for its advantage shall also be deemed,-
(i) where such publication is by or on behalf of a political party, to be a
contribution of such amount to such political party, and
(ii) where such publication is not by or on behalf of but for the advantage of
a political party, to be a contribution for a political purpose to the person
publishing it.
(4) Every company shall disclose in its profit and loss account any amount or
amounts contributed by it to any political party or for any political purpose
to any person during the financial year to which that account relates, giving
particulars of the total amount contributed and the name of the party or
person to which or to whom such amount has been contributed.
(5) If a company makes any contribution in contravention of the provisions of
this section,-
(a) the company shall be punishable with fine which may extend to three times
the amount so contributed; and
(b) every officer of the company who is in default shall be punishable with
imprisonment for a term which may extend to three years and shall also be
liable to fine.]
1\. Subs. by Act 35 of 1985, s. 2
Power of Board and other persons to make contributions to the NationalDefence
Fund, etc.
293B. 1 Power of Board and other persons to make contributions to the National
Defence Fund, etc.
(1) The Board of directors of any company or any person or authority
exercising the powers of the Board of directors of a company, or of the
company in general meeting, may, notwithstanding anything contained in
sections 293 and 293A or any other provision of this Act or in the memorandum,
articles or any other instrument relating to the company, contribute such
amount as it thinks fit to the National Defence Fund or any other Fund
approved by the Central Government for the purpose of national defence.
(2) Every company shall disclose in its profits and loss account the total
amount or amounts contributed by it to the Fund referred to in sub- section
(1) during the financial year to which the amount relates.] 2 Appointment of
sole selling agents
294. Appointment of sole selling agents to require approval of company in general meeting.
(1) No company shall, after the commencement of' the Companies (Amendment) Act
1960 (65 of 1960 ), app- oint a sole selling agent for any area for a term
exceeding five years at a time: Provided that nothing in this sub- section
shall be deemed to prohibit the re- appointment, or the extension of the term
of office, of any sole selling agent by further periods not exceeding five
years on each occasion.
(2) After the commencement of the Companies (Amendment) Act, 1960 (65 of 1960
), the Board of directors of a company shall not appoint a sole selling agent
for any area except subject to tie condition that the appointment shall cease
to be valid if it is not approved by the company in the first general meeting
held after the date on which the appointment is made.
(2A) If the company in general meeting as aforesaid disapproves the
appointment, it shall cease to be valid with effect from the date of that
general meeting.]
(3) Where before the commencement of this Act, a company has appointed a sole
selling agent for any area for a period of not less
1\. Ins. by Act 80 of 1971. s. 2 (w. e. f. 3- 12- 1971 )
2\. Subs. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 101, for sub- sections (1) and (2).
than five years, the appointment shall be placed before the company in general
meeting within a period of six months from such commencement; and the company
in general meeting may, by resolution,-
(a) if the appointment was made on or after the 15th day of February, 1955 ,
terminate the appointment forthwith or with effect from such later date as may
be specified in the resolution; and
(b) if the appointment was made before the date specified in clause (a),
terminate the appointment with effect from such date as may be specified in
the resolution, not being earlier than five years from the date on which the
appoint- ment was made, or the expiry of one year from the commencement of
this Act, whichever is later.
(4) 1 Notwithstanding anything contained in the foregoing pro visions of this
section-
(a) where at an time during the period beginning on the 1st day of April, 1956
and ending on the commencement of the Companies (Amendment) Act, 1960 , (65 of
1960 .) a managing agent has ceased to hold office as such and has been
appointed as the sole selling agent of the company whose managing agent he
was, the sole selling agency agreement whether taken in his own name or in
association with, or in the name of, any other person for his benefit or on
his own account, shall unless approved by the Central Government within a
period of six months from such commencement, become void and inoperative and
the appointment as sole selling agent shall, unless it has terminated by
efflux of time, come to an end on the expiry of that period;
(b) no managing agent-
(i) who has ceased to hold office as such before the commencement of the
Companies (Amendment) Act, 1960 , (65 of 1960 .) but has not been appointed
before such commencement as the sole selling agent of the company whose
managing agent he was, or
(ii) who has ceased to hold office as such after the commencement of the
Companies (Amendment) Act, 1960 , (63 of 1960 .)
1\. Ins. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 101,
shall be appointed after such commencement during a period of three years from
the date of such cesser as the sole selling agent of the company whose
managing agent he was except with the approval of the Central Government
obtained in this behalf.
(5)
(a) Where a company has a sole selling agent (by whatever name called) for any
are and it appears to the Central Government that there is good reason so to
do, the Central Government may require the company to furnish to it such
information regarding the terms and conditions of the appointment of the sole
selling agent as it considers necessary for the purpose of determining whether
or not such terms and conditions are prejudicial to the interests of the
company;
(b) if the company refuses or neglects to furnish any such information, the
Central Government may appoint a suitable person on to investigate and report
on the terms and conditions of appointment of the sole selling agent;
(c) if after perusal of the information furnished by the company or, as the
case may be, the report submitted by the person appointed under clause (b),
the Central Government is of the opinion that the terms and conditions of
appointment of the sole selling agent are prejudicial to the interests of the
company, the Central Government may, by order, make such variations in those
terms and conditions as would in its opinion make them no longer prejudicial
to the interests of the company;
(d) as from such date as may be specified by the Central Govern- ment in the
order aforesaid, the appointment of the sole selling agent shall be regulated
by the terms and conditions as varied by the Central Government.
(6)
(a) Where a company has more selling agents than one (by whatever name called)
in any area or areas and it appears to the Central Government that there is
good reason so to do, the Central Government may require the company to
furnish to it such information regarding the terms and conditions of
appointment of all the selling agents as it considers necessary for the
purpose of determining whether any of those selling agents should be declared
to be the sole selling agent for such area or any of such areas;
(b) if the company refuses or neglects to furnish any such information, the
Central Government may appoint a suitable person to investigate and report on
the terms and conditions of appointment of all the selling agents;
(c) if after perusal of the information furnished by the company or, as the
case may be, the report submitted by the person appointed under clause (b),
the Central Government is of the opinion that having regard to the terms and
conditions of appointment of any of the selling agents and to any other
relevant factors, that selling agent is to all intents and purposes the sole
selling agent for such area, although there may be one or more other selling
agents of the company operating in that area, the Central Government may by
order declare that selling agent to be the sole selling agent of the company
for that area with effect from such date as may be specified in the order and
may make suitable variations in such of the terms and conditions of
appointment of that selling agent as are in the opinion of the Central
Government prejudicial to the interests of the company;
(d) as from the date specified in clause (c) the appointment of the selling
agent declared to be the sole selling agent shall be regulated by the terms
and conditions as varied by the Central Government.
(7) It shall be the duty of the company-
(a) to produce to the person appointed under clause (b) of sub- section (5) or
clause (b) of sub- section (6), all books and papers of, or relating to, the
company which are in its custody or power; and
(b) otherwise to give to that person all assistance in connection with the
investigation which the company is reasonably able to give.
(8) If a company refuses or neglects-
(a) to furnish the information required by the Central Government under clause
(a) of sub- section (5) or clause (a) of sub- section (6), or
(b) to produce to the person appointed under clause (b) of sub- section (5) or
clause (b) of sub- section (6) any books and papers which are in its custody
or power or otherwise to give to that person any assistance which it is
reasonably able to give, the company and every officer of the company who is
in default shall be punishable with fine which may extend to five thousand
rupees and with a further fine of not less than fifty rupees for every day
after the first during which such refusal or neglect continues.]
Prohibition of payment of compensation to sole selling agents forloss of
office in certain cases.
294A. 1 Prohibition of payment of compensation to sole selling agents for loss
of office in certain cases.
(1) A company shall not pay or be liable to pay to its sole selling agent any
compensation for the loss of his office in the following cases:-
(a) where the appointment of the sole selling agent ceases to be valid by
virtue of sub- section (2A) of section 294;
(b) where the sole selling agent resigns his office in view of the
reconstruction of the company or of its amalgamation with any other body
corporate or bodies corporate and is appointed as the sole selling agent of
the reconstructed company or of the body corporate resulting from the
amalgamation;
(c) where the sole selling agent resigns his office, otherwise than on the
reconstruction of, the company or its amalgamation as aforesaid;
(d) where the sole selling agent has been guilty of fraud or breach of trust
in relation to, or of gross negligence in, the conduct of his duty as the sole
selling agent;
(e) where the sole selling agent has instigated, or has taken part directly or
indirectly in bringing about, the termination of the sole selling agency.
(2) The compensation which may be paid by a company to its sole selling agent
for loss of office shall not exceed the remuneration which he would have
earned if he had been in office for the unexpired residue of his term, or for
three years, whichever is shorter, calculated on the basis of the average
remuneration actually earned by him during a period of three years immediately
preceding the date on which his office ceased or was terminated, or where he
held his office for a lesser period than three years, during such period.]
Power of Central Government to prohibit the appointment of soleselling agents
in certain cases.
294AA. 2 Power of Central Government to prohibit the appointment of sole
selling agents in certain cases.
(1) Where the Central Government is of opinion that the demand for goods of
any category, to be specified by that Government, is substantially in excess
of the production or supply of such goods and that the services of sole
selling agents will not be necessary to create a market for such goods, the
Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, declare that
sole selling agents shall not be appointed by a company for the sale of such
goods for such period as may be specified in the declaration.
1\. Ins. by Act 31 of 1965, s. 40 (w. e. f. 15- 10- 1965 ).
2\. Ins. by Act 41 of 1974, s. 27 (w. e. f. 1- 2- 1975 ).
(2) No company shall appoint any individual, firm or body cor- porate, who or
which has a substantial interest in the company, as sole selling agent of that
company unless such appointment has been previously approved by the Central
Government.
(3) No company having a paid- up share capital of rupees fifty lakhs or more
shall appoint a sole selling agent except with the con- sent of the company
accorded by a special resolution and the approval of the Central Government.
(4) The provisions of sub- sections (5), (6) and (7) of section 294 shall, so
far as may be, apply to the sole selling, or the sole purchasing or buying,
agents of a company.
(5) A company seeking approval under this section shall furnish such
particulars as may be prescribed.
(6) Where an appointment has been made of a sole selling agent by a company
before the commencement of the Companies (Amendment) Act, 1974 , (41 of 1974
.) and the appointment is such that it could not have been made except on the
authority of a special resolution passed by the company and the approval of
the Central Government, if sub- section (2), sub- section (3) and sub- section
(8), were in force at the time of such appointment, the company shall obtain s
authority and approval within six months from such commencement. and if such
authority and approval are not so obtained, the appointment of the sole
selling agent shall stand terminated on the expiry of six months from such
commencement.
(7) If the company in general meeting disapproves the appoint- ment referred
to in sub- section (3), such appointment shall, not- withstanding anything
contained in sub- section (6), cease to have effect from the date of the
general meeting.
(8) The provisions of this section except those of sub- section (1), shall
apply so far as may be to the appointment by a company of a sole agent for the
buying or purchasing of goods on behalf the company. Explanation.- In this
section,-
(a) " appointment" includes" re- appointment",
(b) " substantial interest"-
(i) in relation to an individual, means the beneficial interest held by such
individual or any of his relatives, whether singly or taken together, in the
shares of the company, the aggregate amount paid- up on which exceeds five
lakhs of rupees or five per cent. of the paid up share capital of the company,
whichever is the lesser;
(ii) in relation to a firm, means the beneficial inte- rest held by one or
more partners of the firm or any relative of such partner, whether singly or
taken toge- ther, in the shares of the company, the aggregate amount paid- up
on which exceeds five lakhs of rupees or five per cent. of the paid- up share
capital of the company whichever is the lesser;
(iii) in relation to a body corporate, means the beneficial interest held by
such body corporate or one or more of its directors or any relative of such
director, whether singly or taken together, in the shares of the company, the
aggregate amount paid- up on which exceeds five lakhs of rupees or five per
cent. of the paid up share capital of the company, whichever is the lesser.]
295. Loans to directors, etc.
(1) Save as otherwise provided in sub- section (2), no company (hereinafter in
this section referred to as" the lending company") 1 without obtaining the
previous approval of the Central Government in that behalf shall directly or
indirectly,] make any loan to, or give any guarantee or provide any security
in connection with a loan made by any other person to, or to any other person
by,-
(a) any director of the lending company or of a company which is its holding
company or any partner or relative of any such director;
1\. Subs. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 102, for certain words.
(b) any firm in which any such director or relative is a partner;
(c) any private company of which any such director is a director or member;
(d) any body corporate at a general meeting of which not less than twenty-
five per cent. of the total voting power may be exercised or controlled by any
such director, or by two or more such directors together; or
(e) any body corporate, the Board of directors, managing director, managing
agent, secretaries and treasurers, or manager whereof is accustomed to act in
accordance with the directions or instructions of the Board, or of any
director or directors, of the lending company.
(2) 1 Sub- section (1) shall not apply to-
(a) any loan made, guarantee given or security provided-
(i) by a private company unless it is a subsidiary of a public company, or
(ii) by a banking company;
(b) any loan made-
(i) by a holding company to its subsidiary, or
(ii) by a company which is the managing agent or secretaries and treasurers of
another company to that other company;
(c) any guaranty given or security provided-
(i) by a holding company in respect of any loan made to its subsidiary, or
(ii) by a company which is the managing agent or secretaries and treasurers of
another company in respect of any loan made to that other company.]
(3) Where any loan made, guarantee given or security provided by a lending
company and outstanding at the commencement of this Act could not have been
made, given or provided, without the previous approval of the Central
Government, if this section had then been in force, the lending company shall,
within six months from the commencement of this Act or such further time not
exceeding six months as the Central Government may grant for that, purpose,
1\. Subs. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 102, for sub- section (2).
either obtain the approval of the Central Government to the trans- action or
enforce the repayment of the loan made, or in connection with which the
guarantee was given or the security was provided, notwithstanding any
agreement to the contrary.
(4) Every person who is knowingly a party to any contravention of sub- section
(1) or (3), including in particular any person to whom the loan is made or who
has taken the loan in respect of which the guarantee is given or the security
is provided, shall be punishable either with fine which may extend to five
thousand rupees or with simple imprisonment for a term which may extend to six
months: Provided that where any such loan, or any loan in connection with
which any such guarantee or security has been given or provided by the lending
company, has been repaid in full, no punishment by way of imprisonment shall
be imposed under this sub- section; and where the loan has been repaid in
part, the maximum punishment which may be imposed under this sub- section by
way of imprisonment shall be proportionately reduced.
(5) All persons who are knowingly parties to any contravention of sub- section
(1) or (3) shall be liable, jointly and severally, to the lending company for
the repayment of the loan or for making good the sum which the lending company
may have been called upon the pay in virtue of the guarantee given or the
security provided by such company.
(6) No officer of the lending company or of the borrowing body corporate shall
be punishable under sub- section (4) or shall incur the liability referred to
in sub- section (5) in respect of any loan made, guarantee given or security
provided 1 after the 1st day of April 1956 ] in contravention of clause (d) or
(e) of sub- section (1), unless at the time when the loan was made, the
guarantee was given or the security was provided by the lending company, he
knew or had express notice that that clause was being contravened thereby.
296. 2 Application of section 295 to book debts in certain cases. Section 295 shall apply to any transaction represented by a book debt which was from its inception in the nature of a loan or an advance.]
1\. Ins. by Act 65 of 1960, S. 102.
2\. Subs. by s. 103, ibid., for s. 296.
297. Board' s sanction to be required for certain contracts in which particular directors are interested.
(1) Except with the consent of the Board of directors of a company, a director
of the company or his relative, a firm in which such a director or relative is
a partner, any other partner in such a firm, or a private company of which the
director is a member or director, shall not enter into any contract with the
company-
(a) for the sale, purchase or supply of any goods, materials or services; or
(b) after the commencement of this Act, for underwriting the subscription of
any shares in, or debentures of, the company: 1 Provided that in the case of a
company having a paid- up share capital of not less than rupees one crore, no
such contract shall be entered into except with the previous approval of the
Central Government.]
(2) 2 Nothing contained in clause (a) of sub- section (1) shall affect-
(a) the purchase of goods and materials from the company or the sale of goods
and materials to the company, by any director, relative, firm, partner or
private company as aforesaid for cash at prevailing market prices; or
(b) any contract or contracts between the company on one side and any such
director, relative, firm, partner or private company on the other for sale,
purchase or supply of an goods, materials and services in which either the
company, or the director, relative, firm, partner or private company, as the
case may be, regularly trades or does business: Provided that such contract or
contracts do not relate to goods and materials the value of which, or services
the cost which, exceeds five thousand rupees in the aggregate in any year
comprised in the period of the contract or contracts; or
(c) in the case of a banking or insurance company any tran- saction in the
ordinary course of business of such
1\. Ins. Act 41 of 1974, s. 28 (w. e. f. 1- 2- 1975 ).
2\. Subs. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 104, for subsection (2) to (5).
company with any director, relative, firm, partner or private company as
aforesaid.
(3) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub- sections (1) and (2), a
director, relative, firm, partner or private company as aforesaid may, in
circumstances of urgent necessity, enter, without obtaining the consent of the
Board, into any contract with the company for the sale, purchase or supply of
any goods, materials or services even if the value of such goods or cost of
such services exceeds five thousand rupees in the aggregate in any year
comprised in the period of the contract; but in, such a case, the consent of
the Board shall be obtained at a meeting within three months of the date on
which the contract was entered into.
(4) Every consent of the Board required under this section shall be accorded
by a resolution passed at a meeting of the Board and not otherwise; and the
consent of the Board required under sub- section (1) shall not be deemed to
have been given within the meaning of that sub- section unless the consent is
accorded before the contract is entered into within three months of the date
on which if was entered into.
(5) If consent is not accorded to any contract under this section, anything
done in pursuance of the contract shall be voidable at the option of the
Board.
(6) Nothing in this section shall apply to any case where the consent has been
accorded to the contract before the commencement of the Companies Amendment
Act 1960 .] (65 of 1960 .)
298. Power of directors to carry on business when managing agent or secretaries and treasurers are deemed to have vacated office, etc. Where in pursuance of any provisions contained in this Act, the managing agent or secretaries and treasurers of a company are deemed to have vacated or to have been suspended from office, or are removed or suspended from office, or cease to act or to be entitled to act as managing agent or secretaries and treasurers, or where a permanent or temporary vacancy has otherwise occurred in the office of managing agent or secretaries and treasurers, then 1 the Board of directors shall have power to carry on, or arrange for the carrying on of, the affairs of the company until the managing agent or secretaries and treasurers again become entitled to act as such, or until the company in general meeting resolves otherwise.
1\. The words" notwithstanding anything contained in this Act" omitted by Act
65 of 1960, s. 105.
Procedure, etc., where Director interested
299. Disclosure of interests by director.
(1) Every director of a company who is in any way, whether directly or
indirectly, concerned or interested in a contract or arrangement, or proposed
contract or arrangement, entered into or to be entered into, by or on behalf
of the company, shall disclose the nature of his concern or interest at a
meeting of the Board of directors.
(2) (a) In the case of a proposed contract or arrangement, the disclosure
required to be made by a director under sub- section (1) shall be made at- the
meeting of the Board at which the question of entering into the contract or
arrangement is first taken into consideration, or if the director was not, at
the date of that meeting, concerned or interested in the proposed contract or
arrangement, at the first meeting of the Board held after he becomes so
concerned or interested.
(b) In the case of any other contract or arrangement, the required disclosure
shall be made at the first meeting of the Board held after the director
becomes concerned or interested in the contract or arrangement.
(3) (a) For the purposes of sub- sections (1) and (2), a general notice given
to the Board by a director, to the effect that he is a director or a member of
a specified body corporate or is a member of a specified firm and is to be
regarded as concerned or interested in any contract or arrangement which may,
after the date of the notice, be entered into with that body corporate or
firm, shall be deemed to be a sufficient disclosure of concern or interest in
relation to any contract or arrangement so made.
(b) Any such general notice shall expire at the end of the financial year in
which it is given, but may be renewed for further periods of one financial
year at a time, by a fresh notice given in the last month of the financial
year in which it would otherwise expire.
(c) No such general notice, and no renewal thereof, shall be of effect unless
either it is given at a meeting of the Board, or the director concerned takes
reasonable steps to secure that it is brought upon and read at the first
meeting of the Board after it is given.
(4) Every director who fails to comply with sub- section (1) or (2) shall be
punishable with fine which may extend to five thousand rupees.
(5) Nothing in this section shall be taken to prejudice the operation of any
rule of law restricting a director of a company from having any concern or
interest in any contracts or arrangements with the company.
(6) 1 Nothing in this section shall apply to any contract or arrangement
entered into or to be entered into between two companies where any of the
directors of the one company or two or more of them together holds or hold not
more than two per cent. of the paid- up share capital in the other company.]
300. Interested director not to participate or vote in Board' s proceedings.
(1) No director of a company shall, as a director, take any part in the
discussion of, or vote on, any contract or arrangement entered into, or to be
entered into, by or on behalf of the company, if he is in any way, whether
directly or indirectly, concerned or interested in the contract or
arrangement; nor shall his presence count for the purpose oF forming a quorum
at the time of any such discussion or vote; and if he does vote, his vote
shall be void.
(2) Sub- section (1) shall not apply to-
(a) a private company which is neither a subsidiary nor a holding company of a
public company;
(b) a private company which is a subsidiary of a public company, in respect of
any contract or arrangement entered into or to be entered into, by the private
company with the holding company thereof;
(c) any contract of indemnity against any loss which the directors, or any one
or more of them, may suffer by reason of becoming or being sureties or a
surety for the company;
(d) any contract or arrangement entered into or to be entered into with a
public company, or a private company which is a subsidiary of a public
company, in which the interest of the director aforesaid 2 consists solely-
(i) in his being a director of such company and the holder of not more than
shares of such number or value therein as is requisite to qualify him for
appointment as a director thereof, he having been nominated as such
1\. Ins. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 106.
2\. Subs. by s. 107, ibid., for certain words.
director by the company referred to in sub- section (1), or
(ii) in his being a member holding not more than two per cent. of its paid- up
share capital.]
(e) a public company, or a private company which is a subsidiary of a public
company, in respect of which a noti- fication is issued under sub- section
(3), to the extent specified in the notification.
(3) In the case of a public company or a private company which is a subsidiary
of a public company, if the Central Government is of opinion that having,
regard to the desirability of establishing or promoting any industry, business
or trade, it would not be in the public interest to apply all or any of the
prohibitions contained in sub- section (1) to the company, the Central
Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, direct that that sub-
section shall not apply to such company, or shall apply thereto subject to
such exceptions, modifications and conditions as may be specified in the
notification.
(4) Every director who knowingly contravenes the provisions of this section
shall be punishable with fine which may extend to five thousand rupees.
301. Register of contracts, companies and firms in which directors are interested. 1
(1) Every company shall keep one or more registers in which shall be entered
separately particulars of all contracts or arrangements to which section 297
or section 299 applies, including the following particulars to the extent they
are applicable in each case, namely:-
(a) the date of the contract or arrangement;
(b) the names of the parties thereto;
(c) the principal terms and conditions thereof;
(d) in the case of a contract to which section 297 applies or in the case of a
contract or arrangement to which sub- section (2) of section 299 applies, the
date on which it was placed before the Board;
(e) the names of the directors voting for and against the contract or
arrangement and the names of those remaining neutral.
1\. Subs. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 108, for sub- section (1), (2) and (3).
(2) Particulars of every such contract or arrangement to which section 297 or,
as the case may be, sub- section (2) of section 299 applies, shall be entered
in the relevant register aforesaid-
(a) in the case of a contract or arrangement requiring the Board' s approval,
within seven days (exclusive of public holidays) of the meeting of the Board
at which the contract or arrangement is approved,
(b) in the case of any other contract or arrangement, within seven days of the
receipt at the registered office of the company of the particulars of such
other contract or arrangement or within thirty days of the date of such other
contract or arrangement whichever is later; and the register shall be placed
before the next meeting of the Board and shall then be signed by all the
directors present at the meeting.
(3) The register aforesaid shall also specify, in relation to each director of
the company, the names of the firms and bodies corporate of which notice has
been given by him under sub- section (3) of section 299.
(3A) Nothing in sub- sections (1), (2) and (3) shall apply-
(a) to any contract or arrangement for the sale, purchase or supply of any
goods, materials or services if the value of such goods and materials or the
cost of such services does not exceed one thousand rupees in the aggregate in
any year; or
(b) to any contract or arrangement (to which section 297 or, as the case may
be, section 299 applies) by a banking company for the collection of bills in
the ordinary course of its business or to any transaction referred to in
clause
(c) of sub- section (2) of section 297.]
(4) If default is made in complying with the provisions of sub- section (1),
(2) or (3), the company, and every officer of the company who is in default,
shall, in respect of each default, be punishable with fine which may extend to
five hundred rupees.
(5) The register aforesaid shall be kept at the registered office of the
company; and it shall be open to inspection at such office and extracts may be
taken therefrom and copies thereof may be required, by any member of the
company to the same extent, in the same manner, and on payment of the same
fee, as in the case of the register of members of the company; and the
provisions of section 163 shall apply accordingly.
302. Disclosure to members of director' s interest in contract appointing manager, managing director, managing agent or secretaries and treasurers.
(1) Where a company-
(a) enters into a contract for the appointment of a manager of the company, in
which contract any director of the company is in any way, whether directly or
indirectly, concerned or interested; or
(b) varies any such contract already in existence and in which a director is
concerned or interested as aforesaid; the company shall, within twenty- one
days from the date of entering into the contract or of the varying of the
contract, as the case may be, send to every member of the company an abstract
of the terms of the contract or variation, together with a memorandum clearly
specifying the nature of the concern or interest of the director in such
contract or variation.
(2) Where a company enters into a contract for the appointment of a managing
director of the company, or varies any such contract which is already in
existence, the company shall send an abstract of the terms of the contract or
variation to every member of the company within the time specified in sub-
section (1); and if any other director of the company is concerned or
interested in the contract or variation, a memorandum clearly specifying the
nature of the concern or interest of such other director in the contract or
variation shall also be sent to every member of the company with the abstract
aforesaid.
(3) Where a company proposes to enter into a contract for the appointment of a
managing agent or of secretaries and treasurers, in which contract any
director of the company is concerned or interested as aforesaid, or proposes
to vary any such contract already in existence in which a director is
concerned or interested as afore- said, the company shall send the abstract
and memorandum referred to in sub- section (2) to every member of the company,
in sufficient time before the general meeting of the company at which the
proposal is to be considered.
(4) Where a director becomes concerned or interested as afore- said in any
such contract as is referred to in sub- section (1), (2) or (3) after it is
made, the abstract and the memorandum, if any, referred to in the said sub-
section shall be sent to every member of the company within twenty- one days
from the date on which the director becomes so concerned or interested.
(5) If default is made in complying with the foregoing provisions of this
section, the company, and every officer of the company who
is in default, shall be punishable with fine which may extend to one thousand
rupees.
(6) All contracts entered into by a company for the appointment of a manager,
managing director, managing agent or secretaries and treasurers, shall be kept
at the registered office of the company; and shall be open to the inspection
of any member of the company at such office; and extracts may be taken
therefrom and copies thereof may be required by any such member, to the same
extent, in the same manner and on payment of the same fee, as in the case of
the register of members of the company; and the provisions of section 163
shall apply accordingly.
(7) The provisions of this section shall apply in relation to any resolution 1
of the Board of directors of a company appoint- ing, a manager or a managing
or whole- time director, or varying any previous contract or resolution of the
company relating to the appointment of a manager or a managing or whole time
director, as they apply in relation to any contract 2 for the like purpose.
Register of Directors, etc.
303. Register of directors, managing agents, secretaries and treasurers, etc.
(1) Every company shall keep at its registered office a register of its
directors, managing director, managing agent, secretaries and treasurers,
manager and secretary, containing with respect to each of them the following
particulars, that is to say:-
(a) in the case of an individual, his present name and surname in full; any
former name or surname in full; 3 his father' s name and surname in full or
where the individual is a married woman, the husband' s name and surname in
full] his usual residential address; his nationality; and, if that nationality
is not the nationality of origin, his nationality of origin; his business
occupation, if any; if he holds the office of director, managing director,
managing agent, manager or secretary in any other body, corporate, the
particulars of each such office held by him; and except in the case of a
private company which is not a subsidiary of a public company, the date of his
birth;
(b) in the case of a body corporate, its corporate name and registered or
principal office; and the full name, address,
1\. The words" or proposed resolution" omitted by Act 65 of 1960, s. 109.
2\. The words" or proposed contract" omitted by s. 109, ibid.
3\. Ins. by s. 110 ibid.
nationality, and nationality of origin, if different from that nationality 1
the father' s name or where a director is a married woman, the husband' s
name] of each of its directors; and if it holds the office of managing agent,
secretaries and treasurers, manager or secretary in any other body corporate,
the particulars of each such office;
(c) in the case of a firm, the name of the firm, the full name, address,
nationality, and nationality of origin, if different from that nationality 1
the father' s name or where a partner is a married woman, the husband' s name]
of each partner; and the date on which each became a partner; and if the, firm
holds the office of managing agent, secretaries and treasurers, manager or
secretary in any other body corporate, the particulars of each such office;
(d) if any director or directors have been nominated by a body corporate, its
corporate name; all the particulars referred to in clause (a) in respect of
each director so nominated, and also all the particulars referred to in clause
(b) in respect of the body corporate;
(e) if any director or directors have been nominated by a firm, the name of
the firm, all the particulars referred to in clause (a) in respect of each
director so nominated, and also all the particulars referred to in clause (c)
in respect of the firm. Explanation.- For the purposes of this sub- section-
(1) any person in accordance with 2 whose directions or instructions], the
Board of directors of a company is accustomed to act shall be deemed to be a
director of the company;
(2) in the case of a person usually known by a title different from his
surname, the expression" surname" means that title; and
(3) references to a former name or surname do not include-
(i) in the case of a person usually known by an Indian title different from
his surname, the name by
1\. Ins. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 110.
2\. Subs. by s. 110, ibid. for" whose instructions".
which he was known previous to the adoption of, or. succession to, the title;
(ii) in the case of any person, a former name or sur- name, where that name or
surname was changed or disused before the person bearing the name attained the
age of eighteen years, or has been changed or disused for a period of not less
than twenty years; and
(iii) in the case of a married woman, the name or surname by which she was
known previous to the marriage.
(2) The company shall, within the periods respectively mentioned in this sub-
section, send to the Registrar 1 a return in duplicate in the prescribed form]
containing the particulars specified in the said register and 2 a notification
in duplicate in the prescribed form] of any change among its directors,
managing directors, managing agents, secretaries 3 and treasurers, managers or
secretaries specifying the date of the change. The period within which the
said return is to be sent shall be a period of 4 thirty] days from the
appointment of the first directors of the company and the period within which
the said notification of a change is to be sent shall be 4 thirty] days from
the happening thereof: 5
(3) If default is made in complying with sub- section (1) or (2), the company,
and every officer of the company who is in default, shall be punishable with
fine which may extend to fifty rupees for every day during which the default
continues.
304. Inspection of the register.
(1) The register kept under section 303 shall be open to the inspection of any
member of the company without charge and of any other person on payment of one
rupee for each inspection during business hours subject to such reasonable
restrictions as the company may by its articles or in general meeting impose,
so that not less than two hours in each day are allowed for inspection.
1\. Subs. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 110, for" a return in the prescribed form".
2\. Subs. by s. 110, ibid for" a notification in the prescribed form"
3\. The words" or in any of the particulars contained in the register" omitted
by Act 31 of 1965, s. 41 (w. e. f. 15- 10- 1965 ).
4\. Subs. by s. 62 and Sch., ibid., for" twenty- eight" (w. e. f. 15- 10- 1965
).
5\. Proviso omitted by s. 41, ibid. (w. e. f. 15- 10- 1965 ).
(2) If any inspection required under sub- section (1) is refused,-
(a) the company, and every officer of the company who is in default, shall be
punishable with fine which may extend to fifty rupees; and
(b) the 1 Company Law Board] may, by order, compel an immediate inspection of
the register.
305. 2 Duty of directors. etc., to make disclosure.
(1) Every director, managing director, managing agent, secretaries and
treasurers, manager or secretary of any company, who is appointed to, or
relinquishes, the office of director, managing director, managing agent,
secretaries and treasurers, manager or secretary of any other body corporate,
shall, within twenty days of his appointment to, or as the case may be,
relinquishment of, such office, disclose to the company aforesaid the
particulars relating to the office in the other body corporate which are
required to be specified under sub- section (1) of section 303; and if he
fails to do so, he shall be punishable with fine which may extend to five
hundred rupees.
(2) The provisions of sub- section (1) shall also apply to a person deemed to
be a director of the company by virtue of the Explanation to sub- section (1)
of section 303 when such person is appointed to, or relinquishes, any of the
offices in the other body corporate referred to in sub- section (1).]
306. Register to be kept by Registrar and inspection thereof.
(1) The Registrar shall keep a separate register or registers in which there
shall be entered the particulars received by him under sub- section (2) of
section 303 in respect of companies, so however that all entries in respect of
each such company shall be together.
(2) The register or registers aforesaid shall be open to inspection by any
member of the public at any time during office hours, on payment of the
prescribed fee. Register of Directors' Shareholdings
307. Register of directors', share holdings, etc.
(1) Every company shall keep a register showing, as respects each director of
the company, the number, description and amount of any shares in, or
debentures of, the company or any other body corporate, being the company' s
subsidiary or holding company, or a subsidiary of the company' s holding
company, which are held by him or in trust for him, or of Which he has any
right to become the holder whether on payment or not.
1\. Subs. by Act 31 of 1988, s. 67 (w. e. f. 31. 5. 1991 ).
2\. Subs. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 111, for s. 305.
(2) Where any shares or debentures have to be recorded in the said register or
to be omitted therefrom, in relation to any director, by reason of a
transaction entered into after the commencement of, this Act and while he is a
director, the register shall also show the date of, and the price or other
consideration for, the transaction: Provided that where there is an interval
between the agreement for any such transaction and the completion thereof, the
date so shown shall be that of the agreement.
(3) The nature and extent of any interest or right in or over any shares or
debentures recorded in relation to a director in the said register shall, if
he so requires, be indicated in the register.
(4) The company shall not, by virtue of anything done for the purposes of this
section, be affected with notice of, or be put upon inquiry as to, the rights
of any person in relation to any shares or debentures.
(5) The said register shall, subject to the provisions of this section, be
kept at the registered office of the company, and shall be open to inspection
during business hours (subject to such reasonable restrictions as the company
may, by its articles or in general meeting, impose, so that not less than two
hours in each day are allowed for inspection) as follows:-
(a) during the period beginning fourteen days before the date of the company'
s annual general meeting and ending three days after the date of its
conclusion, it shall be open to the inspection of any member or holder of
debentures of the company; and
(b) during that or any other period, it shall be open to the inspection of any
person acting on behalf of the Central Government or of the Registrar. In
computing the fourteen days and the three days mentioned in this sub- section,
any day which is a Saturday, a Sunday or a public holiday shall be
disregarded.
(6) Without prejudice to the rights conferred by sub- section (5), the Central
Government or the Registrar may, at any time require a copy of the said
register, or any part thereof.
(7) The said register shall also be produced at the commencement of every
annual general meeting of the company and shall remain open and accessible
during the continuance of the meeting to any person having the right to attend
the meeting.
If default is made in complying with this sub- section the company, and every
officer of the company who is in default, shall be punish- able with fine
which may extend to five hundred rupees.
(8) If default is made in complying with sub- section (1) or (2), or if any
inspection required under this section is refused, or if any copy required
thereunder is not sent within a reasonable time, the company, and every
officer of the company who is in default, shall be punishable with fine which
may extend to five thousand rupees and also with a further fine which may
extend to twenty rupees for every day during which the default continues.
(9) In the case of any such refusal, the 1 Company Law Board] may also, by
order, compel an immediate inspection of the register.
(10) For the purposes of this section-
(a) any person in accordance with whose directions or instructions the Board
of directors of a company is accustomed to act, shall be deemed to be a
director of the company; and
(b) a director of a company shall be deemed to hold, or to have an interest or
a right in or over, any shares or debentures, if a body corporate other than
the company holds them or has that interest or right in or over them, and
either-
(i) that body corporate or its Board of directors is accustomed to act in
accordance with his directions or instructions; or
(ii) he is entitled to exercise or control the exercise of one- third or more
of the total voting power exercis- able at any general meeting of that body
corporate.
(11) 2 The provisions of this section and section 308 shall apply to managing
agents, secretaries and treasurers and managers as they apply to directors.]
308. Duty of directors and persons deemed to be directors to make disclosure of share holdings.
(1) Every director of a company, and every person deemed to be a director of
the company by virtue of sub- section (10) of section 307, shall give notice
to the company of such matters relating to himself as may be necessary for the
purpose of enabling the company to comply with the provisions of that section.
(2) Any such notice shall be given in writing, and if it is not given at a
meeting of the Board, the person giving the notice shall
1\. Subs. by Act 31 of 1988, s. 67 (w. e. f. 31- 5- 1991 ).
2\. Ins. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 112.
take all reasonable steps to secure that it is brought up and read at the
meeting of the Board next after it is given.
(3) Any person who fails to comply with sub- section (1) or (2) shall be
punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to two years, or with
fine which may extend to five thousand rupees, or with both. Remuneration of
Directors
309. Remuneration of directors.
(1) The remuneration payable to the directors of a company, including any
managing or whole- time director, shall be determined, in accordance with and
subject to the provisions of section 198 and this section, either by the
articles of the company, or by a resolution or, if the articles so require, by
a special resolution, passed by the company in general meeting 1 and the
remuneration payable to any such director determined as aforesaid shall be
inclusive of the remuneration payable to such director for services rendered
by him in any other capacity: Provided that any remuneration for services
rendered by any such director in any other capacity shall not be so included
if-
(a) the services rendered are of a professional nature, and
(b) in the opinion of the Central Government, the director possesses the
requisite qualifications for the practice of, the profession].
(2) 2 A director may receive remuneration by way of a fee for each meeting of
the Board, or a committee thereof, attended by him: Provided that where
immediately before the commencement of the Companies (Amendment) Act, 1960 ,
(65 of 1960 .) fees for meetings of the Board and any committee thereof,
attended by a director are paid on a monthly basis, such fees may continue to
be paid on that basis for a period of two years after such commencement or for
the remainder of the term of office of such director, whichever is less, but
no longer.
(3) A director who is either in the whole- time employment of the company or a
managing director may be paid remuneration either by way of a monthly payment
or at a specified percentage of the net profits of the company or partly by
one way and partly by the other: Provided that except with the approval of the
Central Government such remuneration shall not exceed five per cent. of the
net profits
1\. Ins. by Act 31 of 1965, s. 42 (w. e. f. 15- 10- 1965 ).
2\. Subs. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 113, for sub- sections (2) and (3).
for one such director, and if there is more than one such director, ten per
cent. for all of them together.]
(4) 1 A director who is neither in the whole- time employment of the company
nor a managing director may be paid remuneration- either (a) by way of a
monthly, quarterly or annual payment with the approval of the Central
Government; or
(b) by way of commission if the company by special resolution authorises such
payment: Provided that the remuneration paid to such director, or where there
is more than one such director, to all of them together, shall not exceed-
(i) one per cent. of the net profits of the company, if the company has a
managing or whole- time director, a managing agent or secretaries and
treasurers or a manager;
(ii) three per cent. of the net profits of the company, in any other case:
Provided further that the company in general meeting may, with the approval of
the Central Government, authorise the payment of such remuneration at a rate
exceeding one per cent. or, as the case may be, three per cent of its net
profits.]
(5) The net profits referred to in sub- sections (3) and (4) shall be computed
in the manner referred to in section 198, sub- section (1).
(5A) 2 If any director draws or receives, directly or indirectly, by way of
remuneration any such sums in excess of the limit prescribed by this section
or without the prior sanction of the Central Government, where it is required,
he shall refund such sums to the company and until such sum is refunded, hold
it in trust for the company.
(5B) The company shall not waive the recovery of any sum refund- able to it
under sub- section (5A) unless permitted by the Central Government.]
(6) No director of a company who is in receipt of any commission from the
company and who is either in the whole- time employment
1\. Subs. by Act 31 of 1965, s. 42, for sub- section (4) (w. e. f. 15- 10-
1965 ).
2\. Ins. by Act 65 of 1960, S. 113.
of the company or a managing director shall be entitled to receive any
commission or other remuneration from any subsidiary of such company.
(7) The special resolution referred to in sub- section (4) shall not remain in
force for a period of more than five years; but may be renewed, from time to
time, by special resolution for further periods of not more than five years at
a time: Provided that no renewal shall be effected earlier than one year from
the date on which it is to come into force.
(8) The provisions of this section shall come into force imme- diately on the
commencement of this Act or, where such commencement does not coincide with
the end of a financial year of the company, with effect from the expiry of the
financial year immediately succeeding such commencement.
(9) The provisions of this section shall not apply to a private company unless
it is a subsidiary of a public company.
310. Provision for increase in remuneration to require Government sanction. 1 In the case of a public company, or a private company which is a subsidiary of a public company, any provision relating to the remuneration of any director including a managing or wholetime director, or any amendment thereof, which purports to increase or has the effect of increasing, whether directly or indirectly, the amount thereof, whether that provision be contained in the company' s memorandum or articles, or in an agreement entered into by it, or in any resolution passed by the company in general meeting or by its Board of director, 2 shall not have any effect--
(a) in case where Schedule XIII is applicable, unless such increase is in
accordance with the conditions specified in that Schedule; and
(b) in any other case, unless it is approved by the Central Government.] and
the amendment shall become void if, and in so far as, it is disapproved by
that Government.] 3 Provided that the approval of the Central Government shall
not be required where any such provision or any amendment thereof purports to
increase, or has the effect of increasing, the amount of such remuneration
only by way of a fee for each meeting of the Board or a committee thereof
attended by any such director and the amount of such fee after such increase
does not exceed 2 such sum as may be prescri- bed: 4 Provided further that
where in the case of any private company which converts itself into a public
company or becomes a public company under the provisions of section 43A, any
provisions relating to the remuneration of any director including a managing
or whole- time director as contained in its memorandum or articles or in any
agreement entered into by it or in any resolution passed by it in general
meeting or by its Board of directors includes a provisions for the payment of
fee for each meeting of the Board or a Committee thereof attended by any such
director which is in excess of the sum specified under the first proviso, such
provision shall be deemed to be an increase in the remuneration of such
director and shall not, after it ceases to be a private company, or as the
case may be, becomes a public company, have any effect unless approved by the
Central Government.]
1\. Subs. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 114, for certain words.
2\. Subs. by Act 31 of 1988, s. 47 (w. e. f. 15- 6- 1988 ).
3\. Added by Act 31 of 1965, s. 43 (w. e. f. 15- 10- 1965 ).
4\. Ins. by Act 31 of 1988, s. 47 (w. e. f. 15. 6. 1988 ).
311. Increase in remuneration of managing director on re- appointment or appointment after Act to require Government sanction. In the case of a public company, or a private company which is a subsidiary of a public company, if the terms of any re- appointment or appointment of a managing or whole- time director, made after the commencement of this Act, purport to increase or have the effect of increasing, whether directly or indirectly, the remuneration which the managing or whole- time director or the previous managing or whole- time director, as the case may be, was receiving immediately before such re- appointment or appointment, the re- appointment or appointment 1 shall not have any effect--
(a) in cases where Schedule XIII is applicable, unless such increase is in
accordance with the conditions specified in that Schedule; and
(b) in any other case, unless it is approved by the Central Government;] and
shall become void if, and in so far as, it is disapproved by that Government.
Miscellaneous Provisions
312. Prohibition of assignment of office by directors. Any assignment of his office made after the commencement of this Act by any director of a company shall be void.
313. Appointment and term of office of alternate directors.
(1) The Board of directors of a company may. it so authorised by its articles
or by a resolution passed by the company in general meeting, appoint an
alternate director to act for a director (hereinafter in this section called"
the original director") during his absence for a period of not less than three
months from the State in which meetings of the Board are ordinarily held.
(2) 2 An alternate director appointed under sub- section (1) shall not hold
office as such for a period longer than that permissible to the original
director in whose place he has been appointed and shall vacate office if and
when the original director returns to the State in which meetings of the Board
are ordinarily held.]
(3) If the term of office of the original director is determined before he so
returns to the State aforesaid, any provision for the automatic re-
appointment of retiring directors in default of another appointment shall
apply to the original, and not to the alternate, director.
1\. Subs. by Act 31 of 1988, s. 48 (w. e. f. 15. 6. 1988 ).
2\. Subs. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 115, for sub- section (2).
314. Director, etc., not to hold office or place of profit. 1
(1) Except with the 2 consent] of the company accorded by a special
resolution,-
(a) no director of a company shall hold any office or place of profit, and
(b) 3 no partner or relative of such a director, no firm in which such
director, or a relative of such director, is a partner, no private company of
which such director is a director or member, and no director or manager of
such a private company, shall hold any office or place of profit carrying a
total monthly remuneration of 4 such sum as may be prescribed], except that of
managing director or manager,] banker or trustee for the holders of debentures
of the company,-
(i) under the company; or
(ii) under any subsidiary of the company, unless the remuneration received
from such subsidiary in respect of such office or place of profit is paid over
to the company or its holding company: 5 Provided that it shall be sufficient
if the special resolution according the consent of the company is passed at
the general meeting of the company held for the first time after the holding
of such office or place of profit: Provided further that where a relative of a
director or a firm in which such relative is a partner, is appointed to an
office or place of profit under the company or a subsidiary thereof without
the knowledge of the director, the consent of the company may be obtained
either in the general meeting aforesaid or within three months from the date
of the appointment, whichever is later.] Explanation.- For the purpose of this
sub- section, a special reso- lution according consent shall be necessary for
every appointment in the first instance to an office or place of profit and to
every subse- quent appointment to such office or place of profit on a higher
1\. Subs. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 116, for sub- section (1).
2\. Subs. by Act 31 of 1965, s. 44, for" previous consent" (w. e. f. 15- 10-
1965 ).
3\. Subs, by Act 41 of 1974, s. 29, for certain words (w. e. f. 1- 2- 1975 ).
4\. Subs. by Act 31 of 1988, s. 49 (w. e. f. 15. 6. 1988 ).
5\. Subs. by Act 31 of 1965, s. 44, for proviso (w. e. f. 15- 10- 1965 ).
remuneration not covered by the special resolution, except where an
appointment on a time scale has already been approved, by the special
resolution.
(1A) Nothing in sub- section (1) shall apply where a relative of a director or
a firm in which such relative is a partner holds any office or place of profit
under the company or a subsidiary thereof having been appointed to such office
or place before such director becomes a director of the company.]
(1B) 1 Notwithstanding anything contained in subsection (1),--
(a) no partner or relative of a director or manager,
(b) no firm in which such director or manager, or, relative of either, is a
partner,
(c) no private company of which such a director or manager. or relative of
either, is a director or member, shall hold any office or place of profit in
the company which carries a total monthly remuneration of not less than 2 such
as may be prescribed] except with the prior consent of the company by a
special resolution and the approval of the Central Government; 3
(2) 4 5 (a)] If any office or place of profit is held in contravention of the
provisions of sub- section (1) the director, partner, relative, firm, private
company, managing agent, secretaries and treasurers or the manager, concerned,
shall be deemed to have vacated his or its office as such on and from the date
next following the date of the general meeting of the company referred to in
the first proviso or, as the case may be, the date of the expiry of the period
of three months referred to in the second proviso to that sub- section, and
shall also
1\. Ins. by Act 41 of 1974, s. 29 (w. e. f. 1- 2- 1975 ).
2\. Subs. by Act 31 of 1988, s. 49 (w. e. f. 15- 6- 1988 ).
3\. Omitted by s. 49, ibid.
4\. Subs. by Act 31 of 1965, s. 44, for sub- section (2) (w. e. f. 15- 10-
1965 ).
5\. Sub- section (2) relettered at cl. (a) by Act 41 of 1974, s. 29 (w. e. f.
1- 2- 1975 ),
be liable to refund to the company any remuneration received or the monetary
equivalent of any perquisite or advantage enjoyed by him or it for the period
immediately preceding the date aforesaid in respect of such office or place of
profit.]
(b) 1 The company shall not waive the recovery of any sum refundable to it
under clause (a) unless permitted to do so by the Central Government.]
(2A) 2 Every individual, firm, private company or other body corporate
proposed to be appointed to any office or place of profit to which this
section applies shall, before or at the time of such appointment, declare in
writing whether he or it is or is not connected with a director of the company
in any of the ways referred to in subsection (1).]
(2B) 1 If, after the commencement of the Companies (Amendment) Act, 1974 , (41
of 1974 .) any office or place of profit is held, without the prior consent of
the company by a special resolution and the approval of the Central
Government, the partner, relative, firm or private company appointed to such
office or place of profit shall be liable to refund to the company any
remuneration received or the monetary equivalent of any perquisite or
advantage enjoyed by him on and from the date on which the office was so held
by him.
(2C) If any office or place of profit is held in contravention of the
provisions of the proviso to sub- section (1B), the director, partner,
relative, firm, private company or manager concerned shall be deemed to have
vacated his or its office as such on and from the expiry of six months from
the commencement of the Companies (Amend- ment) Act, 1974 , (41 of 1974 .) or
the date next following the date of the general meeting of the company
referred to in the said proviso, whichever is earlier, and shall be liable to
refund to the company any remuneration received or the monetary equivalent of
any perquisite or advantage enjoyed by him or it for the period immediately
preceding the date aforesaid in respect of such office or place of profit.
(2D) The company shall not waive the recovery of any sum refundable to it
under sub- section (2B) 3 unless permitted to do so by the Central
Government.]
1\. Ins. by Act 41 of 1974, s. 29 (w. e. f. 1- 2- 1975 ).
2\. Ins. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 116.
3\. Omitted by Act 31 of 1988, s. 49 (w. e. f. 15. 6. 1988 ).
(3) Any office or place 1 shall be deemed to be an office or place of profit
under the company 2 within the meaning of this section],-
(a) in case the office or place is held by a director, if the director holding
it 3 obtains from the company anything] by way of remuneration over and above
the re- muneration to which he is entitled as such director whether as salary,
fees, commission, perquisites, the right to occupy free of rent any premises
as a place of residence, or otherwise;
(b) in case the office or place is held by an individual other than a director
or by any firm, private company or other body corporate, if the individual,
firm, private company or body corporate holding it 3 obtains from the company
anything] by way of remuneration whether as salary fees, commission,
perquisites, the right to occupy free of rent any premises as a place of
residence, or otherwise.
(4) 4 Nothing in this section shall apply to a person, who being the holder of
any office of profit in the company, is appointed by the Central Government,
under section 408, as a director of the company.] Restrictions on appointment
of managing directors
315. [ Application of sections 316 and 317.] Rep. by the Companies (Amendment) Act, 1960 (65 of 1960 ), s. 117.
1\. The words" in a company" omitted by Act 65 of 1960, s. 116.
2\. Subs. by Act 41 of 1974, s. 29, for certain words (w. e. f. 1- 2- 1975 ).
3\. Subs. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 116, for" obtains anything".
4\. Ins. by Act 41 of 1974, s. 29 (w. e. f. 1- 2- 1975 ).
316. Number of companies of which one person may be appointed managing director.
(1) 1 No public company and no private company which is a subsidiary of a
public company] shall, after the commencement of this Act, appoint or employ
any person as managing director, if he is either the managing director or the
manager of 2 any other company (including a private company which is not a
subsidiary of a public company)], except as provided in sub- section (2).
(2) 3 A public company or a private company which is a subsidiary of a public
company] may appoint or employ a person as its managing director, if he is the
managing director or manager of one, and of not more than one, 4 other company
(including a private company which is not a subsidiary of a public company)]:
Provided that such appointment or employment is made or approved by a
resolution passed at a meeting of the Board with the consent of all the
directors present at the meeting and of which meeting, and of the resolution
to be moved thereat, specific notice has been given to all the directors then
in India.
(3) Where, at the commencement of this Act, any person is holding the office
either of managing director or of manager in more than 5 two companies of
which each one or at least one is a public company or a private company which
is a subsidiary of a public company], he shall, within one year from the
commencement of 6 the Companies (Amendment) Act, 1960 ], (65 of 1960 .) choose
not more than two of those companies as companies in which he wishes to
continue to hold the office of managing director or manager, as the case may
be; and the provisions of clauses (b) and (c) of sub- section (1) and of sub-
sections (2) and (3) of section 276 shall apply mutatis mutandis in relation
to this case, as those provisions apply in relation to the case of a director.
(4) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub- sections (1) to (3), the
Central Government may, by order, permit any person to be appointed as a
managing director of more than two companies if the Central Government is
satisfied that it is necessary that the companies should, for their proper
working, function as a single unit and have a common managing director.
1\. Subs. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 118, for" No company".
2\. Subs. by s. 118, ibid., for" any other company".
3\. Subs. by s. 118, ibid., for" A company".
4\. Subs. by s. 118, ibid., for" other company".
5\. Subs. by s. 118, ibid., for" two companies".
6\. Subs. by s. 118, ibid., for" this Act".
317. Managing director not to be appointed for more than five years at a time.
(1) No company shall, after the commencement of this Act, appoint or employ
any individual as its managing director for a term exceeding five years at a
time.
(2) Any individual holding at the commencement of this Act the office of
managing director in a company shall, unless his term expires earlier, be
deemed to have vacated his office immediately on the expiry of five years from
the commencement of this Act.
(3) Nothing contained in sub- section (1) shall be deemed to prohibit the re-
appointment, re- employment, or the extension of the term of office, of any
person by further periods not exceeding five years on each occasion: Provided
that any such re- appointment, re- employment or extension shall not be
sanctioned earlier than two years from the date on which it is to come into
force.
(4) 1 This section shall not apply to a private company unless it is a
subsidiary of a public company.] Compensation for loss of office
318. Compensation for loss of office not permissible except to managing or whole- time directors or to directors who are managers.
(1) Payment may be made by a company, except in the cases specified in sub-
section (3) and subject to the limit specified in sub- section (4), to a
managing director, or a director holding the office of manager or in the
whole- time employment of the company, by way of compensation for loss of
office, or as consideration for retirement from office, or in connection with
such loss or retirement.
(2) No such payment shall be made by the company to any other director.
(3) No payment shall be made to a managing or other director in pursuance of
sub- section (1), in the following cases, namely:-
(a) where the director resigns his office in view of the reconstruction of the
company, or of its amalgamation with any other body corporate or bodies
corporate, and is appointed as the managing director, managing agent, 2
manager or other officer of the reconstructed company or of the body corporate
resulting from the amalgamation;
(b) where the director resigns his office otherwise than on the reconstruction
of the company or its amalgamation as aforesaid;
1\. Ins. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 119. 2 The words" secretaries and treasurers"
omitted by s. 120, ibid.
(c) where the office of the director is vacated by virtue of section 203, 1 or
any of the clauses (a) to 2 (l)], of sub- section (1) of section 283;
(d) where the company is being wound up, whether by or subject to the
supervision of the Court or voluntarily, provided the winding up was due to
the negligence or default of the director;
(e) where the director has been guilty of fraud or breach of trust in relation
to, or of gross negligence in or gross mismanagement of, the conduct of the
affairs of the company or any subsidiary or holding company thereof;
(f) where the director has instigated, or has taken part directly or
indirectly in bringing about, the termination of his office.
(4) Any payment made to a managing or other director in pur- suance of sub-
section (1) shall not exceed the remuneration which he would have earned if he
had been in office for the unexpired residue of his term or for three years,
whichever is shorter, calculated on the basis of the average remuneration
actually earned by him during a period of three years immediately preceding
the date on which he ceased to hold the office, or where he held the office
for a lesser period than three years, during such period: Provided that no
such payment shall be made to the director in the event of the commencement of
the winding up of the company, whether before, or at any time within twelve
months after, the date on which he ceased to hold office, if the assets of the
company on the winding up, after deducting the expenses thereof, are not
sufficient to repay to the shareholders the share capital (including the pre-
miums, if any,) contributed by them.
(5) Nothing in this section shall be deemed to prohibit the pay- ment to a
managing director, or a director holding the office of manager, of any
remuneration for services rendered by him to the company in any other
capacity.
319. Payment to director, etc., for loss of office, etc., in connection with transfer of undertaking or property.
(1) No director of a company shall, in connection with the transfer of the
whole or any part of any undertaking or property of the company, receive any
payment, by way of compensation for loss
1\. The word and figures" section 280" omitted by Act 31 of 1965, s. 45 (w. e.
f. 15- 10- 1965 ).
2\. Subs. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 120, for" (k),".
of office, or as consideration for retirement from office, or in connection
with such loss or retirement-
(a) from such company; or
(b) from the transferee of such undertaking or property or from any other
person (not being such company), unless particulars with respect to the
payment proposed to be made by such transferee or person (including the amount
thereof) have been disclosed to the members of the company and the proposal
has been approved by the company in general meeting.
(2) Where a director of a company receives payment of any amount in,
contravention of sub- section (1), the amount shall be deemed to have been
received by him in trust for the company.
(3) Sub- sections (1) and (2) shall not affect in any manner the operation of
section 318.
320. Payment to director for loss of office, etc., in connection with transfer of shares.
(1) No director of a company shall, in connection with the transfer to any
persons of all or any of the shares in a company, being a transfer resulting
from-
(i) an offer made to the general body of shareholders;
(ii) an offer made by or on behalf of some other body corporate with a view to
the company becoming a subsidiary of such body corporate or a subsidiary of
its holding company;
(iii) an offer made by or on behalf of an individual with a view to his
obtaining the right to exercise, or control the exercise of, not less than
one- third of the total voting power at any general meeting of the company; or
(iv) any other offer which is conditional on acceptance to a given extent;
receive any payment by way of compensation for loss of office, or as
consideration for retirement from office, or in connection with such loss or
retirement,-
(a) from such company; or
(b) except as otherwise provided in this section, from the transferees of the
shares or from any other person (not being such company).
(2) In the case referred to in clause (b) of sub- section (1), It shall be the
duty of the director concerned to take all reasonable steps to
secure that particulars with respect to the payment proposed to be made by the
transferees or other person (including the amount thereof) are included in, or
sent with, any notice of the offer made for their shares which is given to any
shareholders.
(3) If-
(a) any such director fails to take reasonable steps as aforesaid; or
(b) any person who has been properly required by any such director to include
the said particulars in, or send them with, any such notice as aforesaid fails
so to do; he shall be punishable with fine which may extend to two hundred and
fifty rupees.
(4) If-
(a) the requirements of sub- section (2) are not complied with in relation to
any such payment as is governed by clause (b) of sub- section (1); or
(b) the making of the proposed payment is not, before the transfer of any
shares in pursuance of the offer, approved by a meeting, called for the
purpose, of the holders of the shares to which the offer relates and other
holders of shares of the same class (other than shares already held at the
date of the offer by, or by a nominee for, the offeror, or where the offeror
is a company, by, or by a nominee for, any subsidiary thereof) as any of the
said shares; any sum received by the director on account of the payment shall
be deemed to have been received by him in trust for any persons who have sold
their shares as a result of the offer made, and the expenses incurred by him
in distributing that sum amongst those persons shall be borne by him and not
retained out of that sum.
(5) If at a meeting called for the purpose of approving any pay- ment as
required by clause (b) of sub- section (4), a quorum is not present and, after
the meeting has been adjourned to a later date, a quorum is again not present,
the payment shall, for the purposes of that sub- section, be deemed to have
been approved.
321. Provisions supplementary to section 318, 319 and 320.
(1) Where in proceedings for the recovery of any payment as having, byvirtue
322. Directors, etc., with unlimited liability in limited company.
(1) In a limited company, the liability of the directors or of any director or
of the managing agent, secretaries and treasurers or manager may, if so
provided by the memorandum be unlimited.
(2) In a limited company in which the liability of a director, managing agent,
secretaries and treasurers or manager is unlimited, the directors, the
managing agent, secretaries and treasurers and the manager of the company, and
the member who proposes a person for appointment to the office of director,
managing agent, secretaries and treasurers or manager, shall add to that
proposal a statement that the liability of the person holding that office will
be unlimited; and before the person accepts the office or acts therein, notice
in writing that his liability will be unlimited, shall be given to him by the
following or one of the following persons, namely, the promoters of the
company, its directors, its managing agent, secretaries and treasurers or
manager, if any, and its officers.
(3) If any director, managing agent, secretaries and treasurers, manager or
proposer makes default in adding such a statement, or if any promoter,
director, managing agent, secretaries and treasurers, manager or officer of
the company makes default in giving such a notice, he shall be punishable with
fine which may extend to one thousand rupees and shall also be liable for any
damage which the person so appointed may sustain from the default; but the
liability of the person appointed shall not be affected by the default.
323. Special resolution of limited company making liability of directors, etc., unlimited.
(1) A limited company may, if so authorised by its articles, by special
resolution, alter its memorandum so as to render unlimited the liability of
its directors or of any director or of its managing agent, secretaries and
treasurers or manager.
(2) Upon the passing of any such special resolution, the provisions thereof
shall be as valid as if they had been originally contained in the memorandum:
Provided that no alteration of the memorandum making the liability of any of
the officers referred to in sub- section (1) unlimited shall apply to such
officer, if he was holding the office from before the date of the alteration,
until the expiry of his then term, unless he has accorded his consent to his
liability becoming unlimited.
324. Power of Central Government to notify that companies engaged in specified classes of industry or business shall not have managing agents.
(1) Subject to such rules as may be prescribed in this behalf, the Central
Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, declare that, as from
such date as may be specified in the notification, the provisions of sub-
section (2) shall apply to all companies, whether incorporated before or after
the commencement of this Act, which are engaged on that date or may thereafter
be engaged, wholly or in part, in such class or description of industry or
business as may be specified in the notification.
(2) Thereupon,--
(a) where any such company has a managing agent on the specified date, the
term of office of that managing agent shall, if it does not expire earlier,
expire at the end of three years from the specified date, or on the 15th day
of August, 1960 , whichever is later; and the company shall not re- appoint or
appoint the same or any other managing agent; and
(b) where any such company has no managing agent on the specified date, or
where it is incorporated on or after that date, it shall not appoint a
managing agent.
(3) Copies of all rules prescribed under sub- section (1) shall, as soon as
may be after they have been prescribed, be laid before both Houses of
Parliament.
(4) A copy of every notification proposed to be issued under sub- section (1)
shall be laid in draft before both Houses of Parliament for a period of not
less than thirty days while they are in session; and if, within that period,
either House disapproves of the issue of the notification or approves of such
issue only with modifications, the notification shall not be issued or, as the
case may require, shall be issued only with such modifications as may be
agreed on by both the Houses.
Abolition of managing agencies and secretaries and treasurers.
324A. 1 Abolition of managing agencies and secretaries and treasurers.
(1) Notwithstanding anything contained in any other provision of this Act or
in the memorandum or articles of association or in any contract to the
contrary, where any company has, on the 3rd day of April, 1970 , a managing
agent or secretaries and treasurers, the term of office of such managing agent
or, as the case may be, the secretaries and treasurers shall expire, if it
does not expire earlier, on that date.
(2) No company shall appoint or re- appoint any managing agent or secretaries
and treasurers on or after the 3rd day of April, 1970 .]
1\. Ins. by Act 17 of 1969, s. 4.
325. Managing agency company not to have managing agent.
(1) No company acting as the managing agent of any other company shall, after
the commencement of this Act, appoint a managing agent for itself, whether it
transacts any other kind of business in addition or not.
(2) No company having a managing agent shall, after the commencement of this
Act, be appointed as the managing agent of any other company.
(3) Any appointment of managing agent made in contravention of sub- section
(1) or (2) shall be void.
(4) Where at the commencement of this Act a company having a managing agent is
itself acting as a managing agent of any other company, the term of office of
the company first- mentioned as managing agent of the other company shall, if
it does not expire earlier in accordance- with the provisions applicable
thereto immediately before such commencement including any provisions
contained in the Indian Companies Act, 1913 (7 of 1913 ), expire on the 15th
day of August, 1956 .
325A. Subsidiary of a body corporate not to be appointed as managing agent.
After the commencement of the Companies (Amendment) Act, 1960 , (65 of 1960 .)
no company shall appoint as its managing agent any body corporate which is a
subsidiary either of itself or of any other body corporate unless immediately
before such commencement the company has any such subsidiary as its managing
agent.] Appointment and term of office
326. Central Government to approve of appointment etc., of managing agent; and circumstances in which approval may be accorded.
(1) In respect of any company to which neither the prohibition specified in
section 324 nor that specified in section 325 applies, a managing agent shall
not be appointed or re- appointed,-
(a) except by the company in general meeting; and
(b) unless the approval of the Central Government has been obtained for such
appointment or re- appointment.
(2) The Central Government shall not accord its approval under subsection (1)
in any case, unless it is satisfied-
(a) that it is not against the public interest to allow the company to have a
managing agent;
1\. Ins. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 121.
(b) that the managing agent proposed is, in its opinion, a fit and proper
person to be appointed or re- appointed as such, and that the conditions of
the managing agency agreement proposed are fair and reasonable; and
(c) that the managing agent proposed has fulfilled any conditions which the
Central Government requires him to fulfil.
327. Application of sections 328 to 331. The provisions of sections 328 to 331 shall apply to-
(a) a public company;
(b) a private company which is a subsidiary of a public company; and
(c) a private company which is not a subsidiary of a public company, unless
the Central Government, by general or special order, specifically exempts the
private company.
328. Term of office of managing agent.
(1) After the commencement of this Act, no company shall-
(a) in case it appoints a managing agent for the first time (that is to say,
in case the company has had no managing agent at any time since its
formation), make the appointment for a term exceeding fifteen years;
(b) in any other case, re- appoint or appoint a managing agent for a term
exceeding ten years at a time;
(c) re- appoint a managing agent for a fresh term, when the existing term of
the managing agent has two years or more to run: Provided that the Central
Government may, if satisfied that it is in the interest of the company so to
do, permit the re- appointment of a managing agent at an earlier time than
that specified in clause (c).
(2) For the purpose of sub- section (1), re- appointment does not include the
re- appointment of any person on fresh, additional or changed conditions for
any period not extending beyond his existing term, but otherwise includes-
(a) the renewal, or the extension of the term, of a previous appointment; and
(b) the appointment of any person or persons having an interest in the
previous managing agency.
(3) Any appointment or reappointment of a managing agent, made in
contravention of the provisions of sub- sections (1) and (2) shall be void in
respect of the entire term for which the appointment or re- appointment is
made. Variation of Managing Agency Agreement
329. Variation of managing agency agreement. A resolution of the company in general meeting shall be required for varying the terms of a managing agency agreement; and before such a resolution is passed, the previous sanction of the Central Government shall be obtained therefor. Special provisions regarding existing managing agents
330. Term of office of existing managing agents to terminate on 15th August, 1960 . Where a company has a managing agent at the commencement of this Act, the term of office of such managing agent shall,
if it does not expire earlier in accordance with the provisions appli- cable
thereto immediately before such commencement[ including any provisions
contained in the Indian Companies Act, 1913 ], (7 of 1913 .) expire on the
15th day of August, 1960 , unless before that date he is reappointed for a
fresh term in accordance with any provision con- tained in this Act.
331. Application of Act to existing managing agents. All provisions of this Act, other than those relating to the term for which the office can be held, shall apply to every managing agent holding office at the commencement of this Act, with effect from such commencement. Restrictions on Number of Managing Agencies
332. No person to be managing agent of more than ten companies after 15th August, 1960 .
(1) After the 15th day of August, 1960 , no person shall, at the same time,
hold office as managing agent in more than ten companies.
(2) Where a person holding office as managing agent in more than ten companies
before that date fails to comply with sub- section (1), the Central Government
may permit him to hold office as managing agent with effect from that date in
respect of such of those companies, not exceeding ten in number, as it may
determine.
(3) In calculating the number of companies of which a person may be a managing
agent in pursuance of this section, the following companies shall be excluded,
namely:-
(a) a private company which is neither a subsidiary nor a holding company of a
public company;
(b) an unlimited company;
(c) an association which does not carry on business for profit, or which
prohibits the payment of a dividend.
(4) For the purposes of this section, each of the following persons shall also
be deemed to hold office as managing agent of the company:-
(a) where the managing agent of the company is a firm, every partner in the
firm;
(b) 1 where the managing agent of the company is itself a company, every
person who is a director, the secretaries and treasurers or a manager of the
latter company, and where the latter company is a public company, every member
who is entitled to exercise not less than ten per
1\. Subs. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 122, for cl. (b).
cent. of the total voting power therein and, where the latter company is a
private company, every member thereof who is entitled to exercise not less
than five per cent. of the total voting power therein.]
(4A) 1 A director or member referred to in clause (b) of sub- section (4)
shall include any person in accordance with whose direc- tions or instructions
any director or, as the case may be, any member is in the opinion of the
Central Government accustomed to act.]
(5) Any person who acts as a managing agent of more than ten companies in
contravention of this section shall be punishable with fine which may extend
to one thousand rupees in respect of each of those companies in excess of ten,
for each day on which he so acts. Right to charge on assets
333. Right of managing agent to charge on company' s assets. A managing agent whose office stands terminated under section 324 or 332 shall be entitled to a charge on the assets of the company in respect of all moneys which are due to him from the company at the date of such termination, or which he may have to pay after that date in respect of any liability or obligation properly incurred by him on behalf of the company before such date, subject to all existing charges and incumbrances, if any, on such assets. Vacation of Office, Removal and Resignation
334. Vacation of office on insolvency, dissolution or winding up, etc. Subject to the provisions of section 340, the managing agent of a company shall be deemed to have vacated his office as such-,
(a) in case the managing agent is an individual, if he is adjudged an
insolvent;
(b) in the same case, if the managing agent applies to be adjudicated an
insolvent;
(c) In case the managing agent is a firm, on its dissolution from any cause
whatsoever, including the insolvency of a partner in the firm;
(d) in case the managing agent is a body corporate, on the commencement of its
winding up whether by or subject to the supervision of the Court, or
voluntarily;
(e) in all cases, on the commencement of the winding up of the company managed
by the managing agent, whether by or subject to the supervision of the Court
or voluntarily.
1\. Ins. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 122.
335. Suspension from office where receiver appointed.
(1) The managing agent of a company shall be deemed to have been suspended
from his office as such, if a receiver is appointed for his property-
(a) by a Court, or
(b) by or on behalf of the creditors of the managing agent, including the
holders of debentures issued by the managing agent, in pursuance of any power
conferred by an instrument executed by the managing agent: Provided that the
Court which appointed the receiver, or which will have jurisdiction to wind up
the managed company, as the case may be, may, by order, direct that the
managing agent shall continue to act as such for such period and subject to
such restrictions and conditions, if any, as may be specified in the order.
(2) The Court may, at any time, cancel or vary any order passed by it under
the proviso to sub- section (1).
336. Vacation of office on conviction in certain cases. Subject to the provisions of sections 340 and 341, the managing agent of a company shall also be deemed to have vacated his office as such, if-
(a) the managing agent;
(b) in case the managing agent is a firm, any partner in the firm; or
(c) in case the managing agent is a body corporate, any director of, or any
officer holding a general power of attorney from, such body corporate; is
convicted by a Court in India, after the commencement of this Act, of any
offence, and sentenced therefor to imprisonment for a period of not less than
six months.
337. Removal for fraud or breach of trust. A company in general meeting may, by ordinary resolution, remove its managing agent from office-
(i) for fraud or breach of trust in relation to the affairs of the company or
of any subsidiary or holding company thereof, whether committed before or
after the commencement of this Act;
(ii) for fraud or breach of trust, whether committed before or after such
commencement, in relation to the affairs of any other body corporate, if a
Court of Law, whether in or outside India, finds such fraud or breach of trust
to have been duly established; or
(iii) subject to the provisions of sections 340 and, 341, where the managing
agent is a firm or body corporate, if any partner in the firm, or any director
of, or any officer holding a general power of attorney from, the body
corporate is guilty of any such fraud or breach of trust as is referred to in
clause (i).
338. Removal for gross negligence or mismanagement. A company in general meeting may, by special resolution,, remove its managing agent from office for gross negligence in, or for gross mismanagement of, the affairs of the company or of any subsidiary thereof.
339. Power to call meetings for the purposes of sections 337 and 338 and procedure.
(1) Without prejudice to any other provision contained in this Act or in the
articles of the company for the calling of meetings, any two directors of the
company may call a general meeting of the company for the purpose of
considering any resolution of the nature referred to in section 337 or 338.
(2) On receipt of notice of any such resolution, a copy of the resolution
shall be sent forthwith to the managing agent by the company.
(3) The managing agent shall have, in relation to any such resolution, all the
rights which a director of the company has under section 284 in relation to
any resolution for removing him from office, including, in particular, the
right to make representations to the company in writing, to have such
representations sent to members of the company and to have them read out at
the meeting and also the right to be heard on the resolution at the meeting.
340. Time when certain in disqualifications will take effect.
(1) The disqualifications imposed by clause (a) of section 334, by sub-
section (1) of section 335, by section 336, and by any resolution passed in
pursuance of clause (ii) of section 337, shall not take effect-
(a) for thirty days from the date of the order of adjudication, appointment of
the receiver, sentence, or finding of the Court as the case may be, or
(b) where any appeal or petition is preferred within the thirty days aforesaid
against the order, appointment, sentence or conviction resulting in the
sentence, or finding, until the expiry of seven days from the date on which
such appeal or petition is disposed of, or
(c) where within the seven days aforesaid, any further appeal or petition is
preferred in respect of the order, appoint-
341. Conviction not to operate as disqualification if convicted partner, director, etc., is expelled.
(1) In the cases referred to in clauses (b) and (c) of section 336, it shall
be open to the managing agent, notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any
other law or agreement, for the time being in force, to expel or dismiss the
convicted partner, director or officer, within thirty days from the date of
his sentence and in that event, the disqualifications imposed by the clauses
aforesaid shall cease to apply.
(2) Sub- section (1) shall not affect the operation of section 346 in any case
to which that section would otherwise apply.
342. Resignation of office by managing agent.
(1) Unless the managing agency agreement otherwise provides, a managing agent
may, by notice to the Board, 1 resign his office as from such date as may be
specified in the notice but such resignation shall not be effective until it
is accepted by the company under sub- section (7)].
(2) The managing agent shall cease to act as such with effect from the date so
specified or from such later date, if any, as may be mutually agreed on
between him and the Board; 2 but the managing agent shall not be absolved from
liability to the company for his acts whether of commission or omission,
during the period of his managing agency].
(3) 3 When notice of resignation is given as aforesaid, the Board shall
require the managing agent within such time as may be fixed by it or such
further time as may be allowed by it, to prepare, and
1\. Subs. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 123, for" resign his office with effect from
such date as may be specified in the notice".
2\. Subs. by s. 123, ibid., or" but his resignation shall not be effective
until it is considered as provided in sub- section (3)".
3\. Subs. by s. 123, ibid., for sub- sections (3), (4) and (5).
the managing agent shall prepare, a report on the state of affairs of the
company as on the date specified in the notice of resignation or such
subsequent date as the Board may think suitable, not being later than that on
which the. managing agent ceases to act as such under sub- section (2),
together with a balance- sheet made out as on that date and a profit and loss
account for the period commencing from the date up to which the last such
account was prepared and ending with the date on which the managing agent
ceases to act as such.
(4) In case of default by the managing agent in complying with the requisition
of the Board under sub- section (3), the Board shall itself cause a report on
the state of affairs of the company as on the date specified in the notice of
resignation or such subsequent date as the Board may think suitable, not being
later than that on which the managing agent ceases to act as such under sub-
section (2), together with a balance- sheet made out as on that date and a
profit and loss account for the period specified in sub- section (3), to be
prepared.
(5) The Board shall also obtain a report from the auditors of the company on
such balance- sheet and profit and loss account in accor- dance with sections
227, 228 and 229 and place the managing agents resignation together with the
report on the state of the company' s affairs, balance- sheet, profit and loss
account and auditors' report mentioned above, before the company in general
meeting.
(6) In relation to any report made by the auditors as aforesaid, sections 230
to 233 shall apply in like manner as they apply in rela- tion to auditors'
report referred to therein.
(7) The company in general meeting may, by a resolution, accept the
resignation or take such other action with reference thereto as it may deem
fit.] Transfers of, and Succession to, Office
343. 1 Transfer of office by managing agent.
(1) The managing agent of a company shall not transfer his office to another
person or enter into any agreement or arrangement with another person by or
under which the managing agent parts with, or which has the effect of
transferring, his right to manage the whole or substantially the whole of the
affairs of the company in favour of or to that other person unless approval of
the company in general meeting and also of the Central Government has been
accorded to such transfer, agreement or arrangement.
1\. Subs. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 124, for s. 343.
(2) If the other person and the managing agent referred to in sub- section (1)
contravene the provisions of that sub- section, that other person and the
managing agent, and where the managing agent is a firm, every partner in the
firm and where the managing agent is a body corporate, every director of the
body corporate, shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may
extend to six months, or with fine which may extend to five thousand rupees,
or with both.]
344. Managing agency not to be heritable after commencement of Act. Any agreement made by a company other than a private company which is not a subsidiary of a public company, with its managing agent after the commencement of this Act shall be void in so far as it provides for succession to the office by inheritance or devise.
345. Succession to managing agency by inheritance or devise under agreement before commencement of Act to be subject to Central Government' s approval.
(1) Where the office of the managing agent of a company is held by an
individual at the commencement of this Act and the managing agency agreement
provides for succession to the office by inheritance or devise, no person
shall succeed to the office on the death of the holder thereof, unless the
succession of such person thereto is a proved by the Central Government; and
that Government shall not accord such approval unless, in its opinion, such
person is a fit and proper person to hold the office of managing agent of the
company.
(2) The provisions of sub- section (1) shall not apply to a private company
which is not a subsidiary of a public company. Changes in Constitution of
Firms and Corporations
346. Change in constitution of managing agency firm or corporation to be approved by Central Government.
(1) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in any other provision
of this Act, where the managing agent of a public company, or of a private
company which is a subsidiary of a public company, is a firm or body corporate
and any change takes place in the constitution of the firm or body corporate,
the managing agent shall cease to act as such on the expiry of six months from
the date on which the charge takes place or such further time as the Central
Government may (whether before or after the expiry of the six months) allow in
that behalf, unless the approval of the Central Government has been accorded 1
before the expiry of six months aforesaid or where further time has been
allowed by the Central Government, before the expiry of that time] to the
changed constitution of the firm or body corporate.
1\. Subs. by Act 65, of 1960, s. 125, for" before such expiry".
Explanation.- For the purposes aforesaid, a change in the consti- tution of a
body corporate means-
(a) its conversion from a private to a public company, or from a public to a
private company;
(b) any change among the directors or managers of the corporation, whether
caused by the death or retirement of a director or manager, the appointment of
a new director or manager, or otherwise;
(c) any change in the ownership of shares in the body corporate or in the case
of a body corporate not having a share capital, any change in its membership;
1 and where the managing agent, being a body corporate is a subsidiary of
another body corporate, includes a change in the cons- titution of that other
body corporate within the meaning of clause (a), clause (b) or clause (c)].
(2) 2 Where the managing agent is a body corporate (whether or not it is a
subsidiary of another body corporate) and its shares are for the time being
dealt in, or quoted on, a recognised stock ex- change, a change in the
ownership of its shares, or where a managing agent being a body corporate is a
subsidiary of another body corporate and the shares of the other body
corporate are for the time being dealt in, or quoted on, a recognised stock
exchange, a change in the ownership of the shares of the other body corporate,
shall not be deemed to be a change in the constitution of the managing agent
within the meaning and for the purposes of sub- section (1), unless the
Central Government, by notification in the Official Gazette, otherwise
directs: Provided that no such notification shall be issued in respect of any
such, or such other, body corporate as aforesaid, unless the Central
Government is of the opinion that any change in the owner-. ship of its shares
has taken place or is likely to take place, which has affected or is likely to
affect prejudicially the affairs of any company which is being managed by the
managing agent.]
347. Application of Schedule VIII to certain managing agents.
(1) The provisions of Schedule VIII shall apply-
(a) to every firm or private company which acts. as the managing agent of any
company, whether public or private; and
1\. Ins. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 125.
2\. Subs. by s. 125, ibid., for sub- section (2).
(b) save as provided in sub- section (2), to every other body corporate (not
being a private company) which acts as the managing agent of any company,
whether public or private.
(2) A body corporate (not being a private company) acting as managing agent
shall, if and so long as its shares are dealt in, or quoted on, any recognised
stock exchange, be exempt from the operation of sub- section (1), unless the
Central Government, by notification in the Official Gazette, otherwise
directs: Provided that the Central Government may, by order, modify or limit
the operation of this sub- section in relation to any body cor- porate in such
manner as that Government thinks fit.
(3) If default is made by a managing agent to which Schedule VIII applies in
complying with the provisions thereof,-
(a) if the managing agent is a firm, every partner therein who is in default,
and
(b) if the managing agent is a body corporate, the body corporate, and every
director or other officer thereof who is in default, shall be punishable with
fine which may extend to fifty rupees for every day during which the default
continues. Remuneration of managing agents
348. Remuneration of managing agent ordinarily not to exceed 10 per cent. of net profits. 1
(1) ] 2 A company shall not pay to its managing agent, in respect of any
financial year beginning at or after the commencement of this Act, by way of
remuneration, whether in respect of his services as managing agent or any
other capacity, any sum in excess of ten per cent. of the net profits of the
company for that financial year.
(2) 3 For the purposes of this section, any payment made by way of
remuneration to any of the following persons shall be deemed to be included in
the remuneration of the managing agent:-
(a) where the managing agent of the company is a firm, every partner in the
firm;
(b) where the managing agent of the company is a public company, every
director of that public company;
1\. S. 348 renumbered as sub- section (1) of that section by Act 65 of 1960,
s. 126.
2\. The words" Save as otherwise expressly provided in this Act," omitted by
s. 126, ibid.
3\. Ins. by s. 126, ibid.
(c) where the managing agent of the company is a private company, every
director and member of that private company.
(3) Nothing contained in sub- section (1) or sub- section (2) shall be deemed
to affect the operation of sections 352, 354 and 356 to 360.]
349. Determination of net profits.
(1) In computing for the purpose of section 348, the net profits of a company
in any financial year-
(a) credit shall be given for the sums specified in sub- section (2), and
credit shall not be given for those specified in sub- section (3); and
(b) the sums specified in sub- section (4) shall be deducted, and those
specified in sub- section (5) shall not be deducted. (2) In making the
computation aforesaid, credit shall be given for the following sums:- bounties
and subsidies received from any Government, or any public authority
constituted or authorized in this behalf, by any Government unless and except
in so far as the Central Government otherwise directs.
(3) In making the computation aforesaid, credit shall not be given for the
following sums:-
(a) profits, by way of premium, on shares or debentures of the company, which
are issued or sold by the company;
(b) profits on sales by the company of forfeited shares;
(c) 1 profits of a capital nature including profits from the sale] of the
undertaking or any of the undertakings of the company or of any part thereof;
(d) profits from the sale of any immovable property or fixed assets of a
capital nature comprised in the undertaking or any of the undertakings of the
company, unless the business of the company consists, whether wholly or
partly, of buying and selling any such property or assets: 2 Provided that
where the amount for which any fixed asset is sold exceeds the written- down
value thereof referred to in section 350, credit shall be given for so much of
the excess as is not higher
1\. Subs. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 127, for" profits from the sale".
2\. Ins. by s. 127, ibid.
than the difference between the original cost of that fixed asset and its
written- down value.]
(4) In making the computation aforesaid, the following sums shall be
deducted:-
(a) all the usual working charges;
(b) directors' remuneration;
(c) bonus or commission paid or payable to any member of the company' s staff,
or to any engineer, technician or person employed or engaged by the company,
whether on a whole- time or on a part- time basis;
(d) any tax notified by the Central Government as being in the nature of a tax
on excess or abnormal profits;
(e) any tax on business profits imposed for special reasons or in special
circumstances and notified by the Central Government in this behalf;
(f) interest on debentures issued by the company;
(g) interest on mortgages executed by the company and on loans and advances
secured by a charge on its fixed or floating assets;
(h) interest on unsecured loans and advances;
(i) expenses on repairs, whether to immovable or to movable property, provided
the repairs are not of a capital nature;
(j) 1 outgoings inclusive of contributions made under clause (e) of sub-
section (1) of section 293;]
(k) depreciation to the extent specified in section 350;
(l) 2 the excess of expenditure over income, which had arisen in computing the
net profits in accordance with this section in any year which begins at or
after the commencement of this Act, in so far as such excess has not been
deducted in any subsequent year preceding the year in respect of which the net
profits have to be ascertained;]
(m) any compensation or damages to be paid in virtue of any legal liability,
including a liability arising from a breach of contract;
1\. Subs. by Act 65 of 1960, S. 127, for cl. (j).
2\. Subs. by s. 127, ibid., for cl. (l).
(n) any sum paid by way of insurance against the risk of meeting any liability
such as is referred to in clause (m);
(o) 1 debts considered bad and written off or adjusted during the year of
account.]
(5) In making the computation aforesaid, the following sums shall not be
deducted:-
(a) the remuneration payable to the managing agent;
(b) income- tax and super- tax payable by the company under the Indian Income-
tax Act, 1922 , (11 of 1922 ) or any other tax on the income of the company
not falling under clauses (d) and (e) of sub- section (4)
(c) any compensation, damages or payments made voluntarily, that is to say,
otherwise than in virtue of a liability such as is referred to in clause (m)
of sub- section (4);
(d) 1 loss of a capital nature including loss on sale of the undertaking or
any of the undertakings of the company or of any part thereof not including
any excess referred to in the proviso to section 350 of the written- down
value of any asset which is sold, discarded, demolished or destroyed over its
sale proceeds or its scrap value.]
350. 2 Ascertainment of depreciation. The amount of depreciation to be deducted in pursuance of clause (k) of sub- section (4) of section 349 shall be the amount calculated with reference to the written- down value of the assets as shown by the books of the company at the end of the financial year expiring at the commencement of this Act or immediately thereafter and at the end of each subsequent financial year, 3 at the rate specified in Schedule XIV]: Provided that if any asset is sold, discarded, demolished or destroyed for any reason before depreciation of such asset has been provided for in full, the excess, if any, of the written- down value of such asset over its sale proceeds or, as the case may be, its scrap
1\. Ins. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 127.
2\. Subs. by s. 128, for s. 350.
3\. Subs. by Act 31 of 1988, s. 50 (w. e. f. 15. 6. 1988 )
value, shall be written off in the financial year in which the asset is sold,
discarded, demolished or destroyed.]
351. Special provision where there is a profit sharing arrangement between two or more companies. Where there is an arrangement between two or more companies to share their profits, and not less than two of those companies have the same managing agent, any profits paid in pursuance of the arrangement by any of the companies having that managing agent to any other or others of them shall-
(a) be excluded from the net profits of the company making such payment; and
(b) be included in the net profits of the company receiving such payment, or
where more than one company receives such payment, be included in the net
profits of each of the receiving companies, to the extent of the payment
received by it.
352. Payment of additional remuneration. Additional remuneration in excess of the limits specified in sections 198 and 348 may be paid to the managing agent if and only if, such remuneration is sanctioned by a special resolution of the company and is approved by the Central Government as being in the public interest.
353. Time of payment of remuneration. The remuneration payable to the managing agent for any financial year or part thereof shall not be paid to him, until the accounts of the company for such financial year have been audited and laid before the company in general meeting: Provided that the minimum remuneration, if any, payable in pursuance of section 198 may be paid to the managing agent in such suitable instalments as may be specified either in the articles of the company or in a resolution passed by the company at an annual general meeting or in the managing agency agreement executed by the company.
354. Managing agent not entitled to office allowance but entitled to be reimbursed in respect of expenses. The managing agent shall not be paid any office allowance, but he may be reimbursed in respect of any expenses incurred by him on behalf of the company and sanctioned by the Board or by the company in general meeting; and nothing contained in sections 348 to 353 shall be deemed to prohibit his being so reimbursed.
355. Saving. Sections 348 to 354 shall not apply to a private company unless it is a subsidiary of a public company.
Appointments as Selling and Buying Agents
356. Appointment of managing agent or associate as selling agent of goods produced by the company.
(1) No managing agent and no associate of a managing agent, shall receive any
commission or other remuneration from the company, in respect of sales of
goods produced by the managed company, if the sales are made from the premises
at which they are produced or from the head office of the managing agent or
from any place in India.
(2) For sales of any goods produced by the company which are effected from any
place outside India not being a place specified in sub- section (1), the
managing agent, or an associate of the managing agent, may be appointed as a
selling agent subject to the following conditions, namely:-
(a) that the managing agent or associate maintains an office at such place for
his own business, that is to say, for a business not connected with that of
the company 1 or any other company managed by the managing agent];
(b) that the remuneration payable in respect of the work done as selling agent
by the managing agent or associate is in accordance with the terms of a
special resolution passed by the company in that behalf; and
(c) that no other sums are payable by the company to managing agent or
associate whether by way of expenses or otherwise.
(3) Any appointment made in pursuance of sub- section (2) shall not be made
for a term exceeding five years but may be renewed from time to time for a
term not exceeding five years on each occasion: Provided that such renewal
shall not be effected earlier than one year from the date on which it is to
come into force.
(4) The special resolution referred to in clause (b) of sub- section (2) shall
set out the material terms subject to which the appointment of selling agent
is made,
(5) Every appointment made under sub- section (2) and all particulars relating
thereto shall be entered in a register maintained by the company for the
purpose.
357. Application of section 356 to case where business of company consists of the supply or rendering of any services. Where and in so far as the business of a company consists in the supply or rendering of any services, the provisions of section
1\. Ins. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 129.
356 shall apply in respect of any such business procured for the com- pany by
its managing agent or any associate of its managing agent from any place
outside India, in like manner as those provisions apply in respect of sales of
any goods produced by a company which are effected from that place.
358. Appointment of managing agent or associate as buying agent for company
(1) No managing agent, and no associate of a managing agent, shall receive any
payment whatever, from the company except expenses, if any, sanctioned under
section 354 in respect of purchases of goods made on its behalf either in
India, or in cases to which sub- section (2) does not apply, outside India.
(2) Where purchases of goods are made on behalf of a company by its managing
agent or any associate of its managing agent, at any place outside India,
then, if the managing agent or associate main- tains an office at such place
not only for such purchase but also for his own business, that is to say, for
a business not connected with that of the company 1 or any other company
managed by the managing agent], he may receive, at the option of the company,
either-
(a) such part of the expenses of such office as may reasonably be attributed
to the purchases made on behalf of the company as aforesaid; or
(b) remuneration, by way of commission or otherwise, in respect of the work
done by the managing agent or associate in making such purchases.
(3) In cases to which clause (a) of sub- section (2) applies, the maximum
amount which may be paid to the managing agent shall be specified in a special
resolution passed by the company; and in cases to which clause (b) of that
sub- section applies, the remuneration payable to the managing agent or
associate shall be in accordance with the terms of a special resolution,
passed by the company in that behalf.
(4) The special resolution referred to in sub- section (3) shall set out in
sufficient detail nature of the office maintained by the managing agent or
associate outside India, the purposes for which it is maintained, the scale of
its operations, the expenses incurred in maintaining the office, and the
proportion of those expenses which may be reasonably attributed to the work
done on behalf of the company.
(5) The special resolution shall not remain in force for a term exceeding
three years but may be renewed from time to time for a term not exceeding
three years on each occasion:
1\. Ins. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 130.
Provided that no renewal shall take place earlier than one year from the date
on which it is to come into force.
(6) Every resolution passed in pursuance of this section shall be entered in a
register maintained by the company for the purpose.
359. Commission, etc., of managing agent as buying or selling agent of other concerns.
(1) A company in general meeting may, by resolution, authorise its managing
agent or any associate of its managing agent to retain any commission or other
remuneration earned or to be earned by such agent or associate as the 1 agent,
secretary or selling or buying agent of any firm, body corporate or other
concern in respect of any goods, power, freight, repairs or other services,
for the sale, purchase, supply or rendering of which a contract has been, or
is to be, entered into by such firm, body or concern with the company,
provided the prices or amounts charged to or received by the company are at
rates which are not less favourable to the company than the market rates or
which are otherwise reasonable.
(2) Every contract so entered into and all particulars relating thereto shall
be entered in a separate register maintained by the company for the purpose.
360. Contracts between managing agent or associate and company for the sale or purchase of goods or the supply of services, etc. 2
(1) A contract between a company and its managing agent or an associate of the
managing agent,-
(a) for the sale, purchase or supply of any property, movable or immovable, or
for the supply or rendering of any service other than that of managing agent-,
or
(b) for the underwriting of any shares or debentures, to be issued or sold by
the company; shall not be valid against the company-
(i) unless the contract has been approved by the company by a special
resolution passed by it, and
(ii) where the contract is for the supply or rendering of any service other
than that of managing agent, unless further the contract has been approved by
the Central Government. either before the date of the contract or at any time
within three months next after that date.]
1\. The words" managing agent, secretaries and treasurers, manager" omitted by
Act 65 of 1960, s. 131.
2\. Subs. by s. 132, ibid., for sub- section (1).
(2) The special resolution aforesaid shall-
(a) set out the material terms of the contract proposed to be entered into 1
or entered into]; and
(b) provide specifically that for any property supplied or sold, or any
services supplied or rendered, by the company, the managing agent or associate
shall make payment to the company within one month from the date of the supply
or sale of the 2 property], or the supply or rendering of the service, as the
case may be.
(3) Every such contract and all particulars relating thereto shall be entered
in a separate register maintained by the company for the purpose.
(4) 3 Nothing in clause (a) of sub- section (1) shall affect any contract or
contracts for the sale, purchase or supply of any property or the supply or
rendering of any services, in which either the com- pany or the managing agent
or associate, as the case may be, regularly trades or does business, provided
that the value of such property or the cost of such services does not exceed
five thousand rupees in the aggregate in any year comprised in the period of
the contract or contracts.]
361. Existing contracts relating to matters dealt with in sections 365 to 360 to terminate on 1st March, 1958 . All contracts in force at the commencement of this Act, to which a company or the managing agent or an associate of the managing agent of a company is a party, shall, in so far as the contracts relate to any of the matters referred to in sections 356 to 360, be deemed to terminate on the first day of March, 1958 , unless they terminate on an earlier date.
362. Registers to be open to inspection. The registers referred to in sections 356 to 360 shall be open to inspection, and extracts may be taken therefrom and copies thereof may be required, by any member of the company, in the same manner, to the same extent and on payment of the same fees as in the case of the register of members of the company.
363. Remuneration received in contravention of foregoing sections to be held in trust for company. 4
(1) ] Where the managing agent of a company, or an associate of the managing
agent, receives any sum from the company,
1\. Ins. by Act 65 of 1960, S. 132.
2\. Subs. by s. 132, ibid., for" goods".
3\. Subs. by s. 132, ibid., for sub- section (4).
4\. S. 363 renumbered as sub- section (1) of that section by s. 133, ibid.
whether directly or indirectly, by way of remuneration, rebate, commission,
expenses or otherwise,-
(a) in the case of a public company or a private company which is a subsidiary
of a public company, in contravention of sections 348 to 354 and sections 356
to 361; or
(b) in the case of a private company which is not a subsidiary of a public
company, in contravention of sections 356 to 361; the managing agent or
associate 1 shall refund such sum to the company and until such sum is so
refunded, hold it in trust for the company].
(2) 2 The company shall not waive the recovery of any sum refundable to it
under sub- section (1) unless permitted by the Central Government.] Assignment
of, or charge on, remuneration
364. Company not to be bound by assignment of, or charge on, managing agent' s remuneration. Any assignment of, or charge on, his remuneration, or any part thereof, effected by a managing agent shall be void as against the company. This section shall not affect the rights inter se of the managing agent and any person other than the company. Compensation for termination of office
365. Prohibition of payment of compensation for loss of office in certain cases. A company shall not pay or be liable to pay to its managing agent any compensation for the loss of his office in the following cases:-
(a) where the managing agent resigns his office in view of the re-
construction of the company or of its amalgamation with any other body
corporate or bodies corporate and is ap- pointed as the managing agent,
secretaries and treasurers, manager or other officer of the reconstructed
company or of the body corporate resulting from the amalgamation;
(b) where the managing agent resigns his office, otherwise than on the
reconstruction of the company or its amalgamation as aforesaid;
1\. Subs. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 133, for certain words.
2\. Ins. by s. 133, ibid.
(c) where the managing agent vacates his office in pursuance of section 324, 1
324A,] 330 or 332;
(d) where the managing agent is deemed to have vacated his office in pursuance
of clause (a), (b), (c) or (d) of section 334 or of section 336;
(e) where the managing agent is deemed to have vacated his office in pursuance
of clause (e) of section 334, provided the winding up of the company was due
to the negligence or default of the managing agent;
(f) where the managing agent is deemed to have been suspended, or is
suspended, from his office in pursuance of section 335 or sub- section (2) of
section 340;
(g) where the managing agent is removed from office by a resolution in
pursuance of section 337 or 338; and
(h) where the managing agent has instigated, or has taken part in bringing
about, the termination of his office.
366. Limit of compensation for loss of office. The compensation which may be paid by a company to its managing agent for loss of office shall not exceed the remuneration which he would have earned if he had been in office for the unexpired residue of his term, or for three years, whichever is shorter, calculated on the basis of the average remuneration actually earned by him during a period of three years immediately preceding the date on which his office ceased or was terminated, or where he held the office for a lesser period than three years, during such period: Provided that in the event of the winding up of the company commencing, whether before, or at any time within twelve months after, the date of the cessation or termination of the office of managing agent, no compensation shall be payable to him if the assets of the company on the winding up, after deduction of the expenses thereof, are not sufficient to repay the share capital (including the premiums, if any,) contributed by the members of the company. Other rights and liabilities, not affected on terminations of office
367. Managing agent' s rights and liabilities after termination of office. Where the office of a managing agent ceases or is terminated-
(a) the managing agent and the company shall be entitled to enforce any claim
or demand which each may have against the other, in respect of anything done
or omitted
1\. Ins. by Act 17 of 1969, s. 5.
to be done by either of them before the cessation or termination of the
managing agency; and
(b) the rights and liabilities, in relation to the company, of the managing
agent in any other capacity, shall not be affected. Restrictions on powers
368. Managing agent to be subject to control of Board and to restrictions in Schedule VII. The managing agent of a company, whether appointed before or after the commencement of this Act, shall exercise his powers subject to the superintendence, control and direction of its Board of directors and subject also to the provisions of the memo- randum and articles of the company and to the restrictions contained in Schedule VII.
369. Loans to managing agent.
(1) No public company, and no private company which is a subsidiary of a
public company, 1 shall directly or indirectly make] any loan to, or give any
guarantee or provide any security in connection with a loan made by any other
person to, or to any other person by,-
(a) its managing agent or any associate of its managing agent; or
(b) any body corporate in respect of which the Central Government, by order,
declares that it is satisfied that the Board of directors, managing director,
managing agent, secretaries and treasurers or manager thereof is accustomed to
act in accordance with the directions or instructions of the managing agent or
associate of the managing agent, notwithstanding that the body corporate may
not itself be an associate of the managing agent.
(2) 2 Nothing contained in sub- section (1) or section 295 shall apply to-
(a) any credit given by the company to its managing agent for the purpose of
facilitating the company' s business and held by such agent in his own name in
one or more current accounts, subject to limits previously approved by the
directors of company and on no account exceeding twenty thousand rupees in the
aggregate; or
1\. Subs. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 134, for" shall make".
2\. Subs. by s. 134, ibid., for sub- section (2).
(b) any loan made by a holding company to its subsidiary. Explanation.- Credit
referred to in clause (a) of sub- section (2) is confined to any cash advance
given by way of a permanent advance or imprest for facilitating the carrying
on of the company' s business, transactions on such advance or imprest account
being settled as far as possible on a monthly basis.]
370. Loans, etc., to companies under the same management.
(1) No company (hereinafter in this section referred to as" the lending
company") shall-
(a) make any loan to, or
(b) give any guarantee, or provide any security, in connection with a loan
made by any other person to, or to any other person by, any body corporate 1 ,
unless the making of such loan, the giving of such guarantee or the provision
of such security has been previously authorised by a special resolution of the
lending company. 2 Provided that no special resolution shall be necessary in
the case of loans made to other bodies corporate not under the same management
as the lending company where the aggregate of such loans does not exceed 3
such percentage of the aggregate of the subscribed capital of the lending
company and its free reserves as may be prescribed:] Provided further that the
aggregate of the loans made to all bodies corporate shall not exceed without
the prior approval of the Central Government-
(a) 3 such percentage of the aggregate of the subscribed capital of the
lending company and its free reserves as may be prescribed] where all such
other bodies corporate are not under the same management as the lending
company;
(b) 3 such percentage of the aggregate of the subscribed capital of the
lending company and its free reserves as may be prescribed] where all such
other bodies corporate are under the same management as the lending company.
Explanation 4 1].- If a special resolution has been passed by the lending
company authorising the making of loans up to the limit of 3 the percentage of
the aggregate specified in clause (a) or, as the case may be, the percentage
of the aggregate specified in clause (b) of the second proviso]
1\. The words" which is under the same management as the lending company"
omitted by Act 31 of 1965, s. 46 (w. e. f. 1- 4- 1967 ).
2\. Added by s. 46, ibid. (w. e. f. 1- 4- 1967 ).
3\. Subs. by Act 31 of 1988, s. 51 (w. e. f. 17. 4. 1989 ).
4\. Renumbered as Explanation 1 by Act 34 of 1966, s. 3 (w. e. f. 1- 4- 1967 )
then, no further special resolution or resolutions shall be deemed to be
necessary for the making of any loan or loans within such limit.] 1
Explanation 2.- If a special resolution has been passed by the lending company
authorising the Board of Directors to give any guarantee or provide any
security up to a limit specified in the reso- lution, then, no further special
resolution or resolutions shall be deemed to be necessary for giving any
guarantee or providing any security within such limit.]
(1A) 2 Where the lending company-
(a) makes any loan to, or
(b) gives any guarantee, or provides any security, in connection with a loan
made by any other person to, or to any other person by, a firm in which a
partner is a body corporate under the same manage- ment as the lending
company-
(i) the loan shall be deemed to have been made to, or
(ii) the guarantee or the security shall be deemed to have been given or
provided in connection with the loan made by such other person to, or to such
other person by, a body corporate under the same management.]
(1B) 3 ] 4 For the purposes of sub- sections (1) and (1A)] two bodies
corporate shall be deemed to be under the same management-
(i) if the managing agent, secretaries and treasurers, managing director or
manager of the one body, or where such managing agent or secretaries and
treasurers are a firm, any partner in the firm, or where such managing agent
or secretaries and treasurers are a private company, any director of such
company, is-
(a) the managing agent, secretaries and treasurers, managing director or
manager of the other body; or
(b) a partner in the firm acting as managing agent or secretaries and
treasurers of the other body; or
1\. Ins. by Act 34 of 1966, s. 3 (w. e. f. 1- 4- 1967 ).
2\. Ins. by Act 65 of 1960, S. 135.
3\. Explanation numbered and lettered as sub- section (1B) by s. 135, ibid.
4\. Subs. by s. 135, ibid., for" For the purposes of this sub- section".
(c) a director of the private company acting as managing agent or secretaries
and treasurers of the other body; or
(ii) if a majority of the directors of the one body constitute, or at any time
within the six months immediately preceding constituted, a majority of the
directors of the other body; 1 or]
(iii) 1 if not less than one- third of the total voting power with respect to
any matter relating to each of the two bodies corporate is exercised or
controlled by the same individual or body corporate; or
(iv) if the holding company of the one body corporate is under the same
management as the other body corporate within the meaning of clause (i),
clause (ii) or clause (iii), or
(v) if one or more directors of the one body corporate while holding, whether
by themselves or together with their relatives, the majority of shares in that
body corporate also hold, whether by themselves or together with their
relatives, the majority of shares in the other body corporate.]
(1C) 1 Every lending company shall keep a register showing-
(a) the names of all bodies corporate under the same management as the lending
company and the name of every firm in which a partner is a body corporate
under the same management as the lending company, and
(b) the following particulars in respect of every loan made, guarantee given
or security provided by the lending company 2 in relation to any such body
corporate] under this section:-
(i) the name of the body corporate to which the loan has been made whether
such loan has been made before or after that body corporate came under the
same management as the lending company,
(ii) the amount of the loan,
(iii) the date on which the loan has been made,
(iv) the date on which the guarantee has been given or security has been
provided in connection with a
1\. Ins. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 135.
2\. Ins. by Act 31 of 1965, s. 46 (w. e. f. 1- 4- 1967 ).
loan made by any other person to, or to any other person by, any body
corporate or firm referred to in sub- section (1) or (1A) together with the
name of the person, body corporate or firm.
(1D) Particulars of 1 every loan, guarantee or security referred to in sub-
section (1C)] shall be entered in the register aforesaid within three days of
the making of such loan, or the giving of such guarantee or the provision of
such security or in the case of any loan made, guarantee given or security
provided before the commencement of the Companies (Amendment) Act, 1960 , (65
of 1960 .) within three months from such commencement or such further time not
exceeding six months as the company may by special resolution allow.
(1E) If default is made in complying with the provisions of sub- section (1C)
or (1D), the company and every officer of the company who is in default, shall
be punishable with fine which may extend to five hundred rupees and also with
a further fine which may extend to fifty rupees for every day after the first
during which the default continues.
(1F) The register aforesaid shall be kept at the registered office of the
lending company and-
(a) shall be open to inspection at such office, and
(b) extracts may be taken therefrom or copies thereof may be required, by any
member of the company to the same extent and in the same manner and on the
payment of the same fees as in the case of the register of members of the
company; and the provisions of section 163 shall apply accordingly.]
(2) 2 Nothing contained in the foregoing provisions of this section shall
apply to-
(a) any loan made-
(i) by a holding company to its subsidiary, or
(ii) by the managing agent or secretaries and treasurers to any company under
his or their management, or
(iii) 3 by a banking company, or an insurance company, in the ordinary course
of its business; 4 or]
1\. Subs. by Act 31 of 1965, s. 46, for" every such loan, guarantee or
security (w. e. f. 1- 4- 1967 ).
2\. Subs. by Act 65 of 1960, S. 135, for sub- section (2).
3\. Subs. by Act 31 of 1965, S. 46, for sub- clause (iii) (w. e. f. 1- 4- 1967
).
4\. Ins. by Act 34 of 1966, s. 3 (w. e. f. 1- 4- 1967 ).
(iv) by a private company, unless it is a subsidiary of a public company; 1
or]
(v) by a company established with the object of financing industrial
enterprises;]
(b) any guarantee given or any security provided-
(i) by a holding company in respect of any loan made to its subsidiary; or
(ii) by the managing agent or secretaries and treasurers in respect of any
loan made to any company under his or their management; or
(iii) 2 by a banking company, or an insurance company, in the ordinary course
of its business; or
(iv) by a private company, unless it is a subsidiary of a public company; or
(v) by a company established with the object of financing industrial
enterprises.]
(3) Nothing in this section shall apply to a book debt unless the transaction
represented by the book debt was from its inception in the nature of a loan or
an advance.
(4) For the purposes of this section, any person in accordance with whose
directions or instructions the Board of directors of a company is accustomed
to act shall be deemed to be a director of the company.]
(5) 3 Where before the commencement of the Companies (Amendment) Act, 1965 ,
any loan, guarantee or security has been made, given or provided by a company
which could not have been made, given or provided under this section as
amended by that Act, and such loan, guarantee or security is outstanding at
such commencement, the company shall,' within six months from such
commencement enforce the repayment of the loan made or, as the case may be,
revoke the guarantee given or the security provided, notwithstanding any
agreement to the contrary: Provided that the aforesaid period of six months
may be extended by the Central Government on an application made to it in that
behalf by the company.] 4 Explanation.-- For the purposes of this section,"
loan" includes any deposit of money made by one company with another company,
not being a banking company.]
1\. Ins. by Act 34 of 1966, s. 3 (w. e. f. 1- 4- 1967 ).
2\. Subs. by s. 3, ibid., for sub- clause (iii) (w. e. f. 1- 4- 1967 ).
3\. Ins. by Act 31 of 1965, s. 46 (w. e. f. 1- 4- 1967 ).
4\. Added by Act 31 of 1988, s. 51 (w. e. f. 17- 4- 1989 )
Provisions as to certain loans which could not have been made ifsections 369
and 370 were in force.
370A. 1 Provisions as to certain loans which could not have been made if
sections 369 and 370 were in force. Where any loan made, guarantee given or
security provided by a company and outstanding at the commencement of the
Companies (Amendment) Act, 1960 (65 of 1960 .) would not have been made, given
or provided if section 369 or section 370 had' been in force at the time when
such loan was made, guarantee given or security provided, the company shall,
within six months from the commencement of that Act, enforce the repayment of
the loan made or, as the case may be, revoke the guarantee given or the
security provided, notwithstanding any agreement to the contrary: Provided
that the period of six months within which the company is required by this
section to enforce the repayment of the loan or to revoke the guarantee or
security, may be extended-
(a) in the case of a loan guarantee or security under section 369, by the
Central Government on an application made to it by the company for that
purpose;
(b) in the case of a loan, guarantee or security under section 370, by a
special resolution of the company.]
371. Penalty for contravention of section 369, 370 or 370A.
(1) Every person who is a party to any contravention of 2 section 369 or
section 370 excluding sub- section (1C) or (1D)], or section 370A] including
in particular any person to whom the loan is made, or in whose interest the
guarantee is given or the security is provided, shall be punishable with fine
which may extend to five thousand rupees or with simple imprisonment for a
term which may extend to six months: Provided that where any such loan, or any
loan in connection with which any such guarantee or security has been given or
provided by the lending company, has been repaid in full, no punishment by way
of imprisonment shall be imposed under this sub- section; and where the loan
has been repaid in part, the maximum punishment which may be imposed under
this sub- section by way of imprisonment shall be proportionately reduced.
(2) All persons who are knowingly parties to any such contra- vention shall be
liable, jointly and severally, to the lending company for the repayment of the
loan, or for making good the sum which the lending company may have been
called upon to pay in virtue of the guarantee given or the security provided
by such company.
1\. Ins. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 136.
2\. Subs. by s. 137, ibid., for" section 369 or 370
372. 1 Purchase by company of shares, etc., of other companies.
(1) A company, whether by itself or together with its subsidiaries (hereafter
in this section and section 373 referred as the investing company), shall not
be entitled to acquire, by way of subscription, purchase or otherwise (whether
by itself, or by any individual or association of individuals in trust for it
or for its benefit or on its account) the shares of any other body corporate
except to the extent, and except in accordance with the restrictions and
conditions, specified in this section.] 1 The Board of directors of the
investing company shall be entitled to invest in any shares of any other body
corporate up to such percentage of the subscribed equity share capital, or the
aggregate of the paid- up equity and preference share capital, of such other
body corporate, whichever is less, as may be prescribed:] Provided that the
aggregate of the investments so made by the Board in all other bodies
corporate shall not exceed 1 such percentage of the aggregate of the
subscribed capital and free reserves of the investing company, as may be
prescribed:] Provided further that the aggregate of the investments made in
all other bodies corporate in the same group shall not exceed 1 such
percentage of the aggregate of the subscribed capital and free reserves of the
investing company as may be prescribed.]
(3) In computing at any time the percentages specified in sub- section (2) and
the provisos thereto, the aggregate of the investments made by the investing
company in other body or bodies corporate [ whether before or after the
commencement of the Companies (Amendment) Act, 1960 (65 of 1960 ),] up to that
time shall be taken into account.
1\. Subs. by Act 31 of 1988, s. 52 (w. e. f. 17. 4. 1989 )
(4) The investing company shall not make any investment in the shares of any
other body corporate in excess of the percentages speci- fied in sub- section
(2) and the provisos thereto, unless the investment is sanctioned by a
resolution of the investing company in general meeting and 1 unless previously
approved] by the Central Government: Provided that the investing company may
at any time invest up to any amount in shares offered to it under clause (a)
of sub- section (1) of section 81 (hereafter in this section referred to as
rights shares) irrespective of the aforesaid percentages: Provided further
that when at any time the investing company intends to make any investments in
shares other than rights shares, then, in computing at that time any of the
aforesaid percentages, all existing investments, if any, made in rights shares
up to that time shall be included in the aggregate of the investments of the
company.
(5) No investment shall be made by the Board of directors of an investing
company in pursuance of sub- section (2), unless it is sanc- tioned by a
resolution passed at a meeting of the Board with the consent of all the
directors present at the meeting, except those not entitled to vote thereon,
and unless further notice of the resolution to be moved at the meeting has
been given to every director in the manner specified in section 286.
(6) Every investing company shall keep a register of all invest- ments made by
it in shares of any other body or bodies corporate (whether in the same group
or not and whether in the case of a body corporate in the same group, such
investments were made before or after that body came within the same group as
the investing company), showing in respect of each investment the following
particulars:-
(a) the name of the body corporate in which the investment has been made;
(b) the date on which the investment has been made;
(c) where the body corporate is in the same group as the investing company,
the date on which the body corporate came in the same group;
(d) the names of all bodies corporate in the same group as the investing
company.
(7) Particulars of every investment to which sub- section (6) applies shall be
entered in the register aforesaid within seven days of the making thereof or
in the case of investments made before the commencement of the Companies
(Amendment) Act, 1960 , (65 of 1960 .) within six
1\. Subs. by Act 31 of 1988, s. 52 (w. e. f. 17. 4. 1989 )
months from such. commencement, or such further time as the Central Government
may grant on an application by the company in that behalf.
(8) If default is made in complying with the provisions of sub- section (6) or
(7), the company, and every officer of the company who is in default, shall be
punishable with fine which may extend to five hundred rupees and also with a
further fine which may extend to fifty rupees for every day after the first
during which the default continues.
(9) The register aforesaid shall be kept at the registered office of the
investing company and-
(a) shall be open to inspection at such office, and
(b) extracts may be taken therefrom and copies thereof may be required, by any
member of the investing company to the same extent, in the same manner, and on
the payment of the same fees as in the case of the register of members of the
investing company; and the provisions of section 163 shall apply accordingly.
(10) Every investing company shall annex in each balance- sheet prepared by it
after the commencement of the Companies (Amendment) Act, 1960 , (65 of 1960 ),
a statement showing the bodies corporate (indicating separately the bodies
corporate in the same group) in the shares of which investments have been made
by it (including all investments, whether existing or not, made subsequent to
the date as at which the previous balance- sheet was made out) and the nature
and extent of the investments so made in each body corporate: Provided that in
the case of a company whose principal business is the acquisition of shares,
stock, debentures or other securities (hereafter in this section referred to
as an investment company), it shall be sufficient if the statement shows only
the investments existing on the date as at which the balance- sheet to which
the statement is annexed has been made out.
(11) For the purposes of this section, a body corporate shall be deemed to be
in the same group as the investing company-
(a) if the body corporate is the managing agent of the investing company; or
(b) if the body corporate and the investing company should, in virtue of sub-
section (1B) of section 370, be deemed to be under the same management.
(12) References in the foregoing provisions of this section to shares shall in
the case of investments made by the investing company in other bodies
corporate in the same group, be deemed to include references to debentures
also.
(13) The provisions of this section except the first proviso to subsection (2)
1 and sub- section (5)] shall also apply to an investment company.
(14) This section shall not apply-
(a) to any banking or insurance company
(b) to a private company, unless it is a subsidiary of a public company;
(c) to any company established with the object of financing, whether by way of
making loans or advances to, or subscribing to the capital of, private
industrial enterprises in India, in any case where the Central Government has
made or agreed to make to the company a special advance for the purpose or has
guaranteed or agreed to guarantee the payment of moneys borrowed by the
company from any institution outside India;
(d) 2 to investments by a holding company in its subsidiary other than a
subsidiary within the meaning of clause (a) of sub- section (1) of section 4;
(e) to investments by a managing agent or secretaries and treasurers in a
company managed by him or them.]
373. Investments made before commencement of Act. Where any investments have been made by a company 3 in any other body corporate in the same group] at any time after the first day of April, 1952 , which, if section 372 had been then in force, could not have been made except on the authority of a resolution passed by the investing company and the approval of the Central Government, the authority of the company by means of a resolution and the approval of the Central Government shall be obtained to such investments, within six months from the commencement of this Act; and if such authority and approval are not so obtained, the Board of directors of the company shall dispose of the investments, in so far as they may be in excess of the limits specified in sub- section (2) of section 372 and 4 the second proviso to that sub- section], within two years from the commencement of this Act.
374. Penalty for contravention of section 372 or 373. If default is made in complying with the provisions of 5 section 372 excluding sub- sections (6) and (7)] or section 373
1\. Ins. by Act 31 of 1965, s. 47 (w. e. f. 15- 10- 1965 ).
2\. Subs. by Act 31 of 1988, s. 52 (w. e. f. 17. 4. 1989 ).
3\. Ins. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 139.
4\. Subs. by s. 139, ibid., for" the proviso to that sub- section.
5\. Subs. by s. 140, ibid., for" section 372 or 373."
every officer of the company who is in default shall be punishable with fine
which may extend to five thousand rupees.
375.
(1) Managing agent not engage in business competing with business of managed
company. A managing agent shall not engage on his own account in any business
which is of the same nature as, and directly competes with, the business
carried on by a company of which he is the managing agent or by a subsidiary
of such company, unless such company by special resolution permits him to do
so.
(2) For the purposes of sub- section (1), a managing agent shall be deemed to
be engaged in business on his own account, if such busi- ness is carried on
by-
(a) a firm in which he is a partner; or
(b) a private company at any general meeting of which not less than twenty per
cent. of the total voting power may be exercised or controlled by any of the
following persons, or by any two or more of them acting together, namely, (i)
the managing agent aforesaid; (ii) where such managing agent is a firm, any
partner in the firm; and (iii) where such managing agent is a body corporate,
any officer of the body corporate;
(c) a body corporate (not being a private company) at any general meeting of
which not less than seventy per cent. of the total voting power may be
exercised or controlled by any of the following persons, or by any two or more
of them acting together, namely, (i) the managing agent aforesaid; (ii) where
such managing agent is a firm, any partner in the firm; and (iii) where such
managing agent is a body corporate, any officer of such body corporate.
(3) If a managing agent engages in any business in contravention of this
section, he shall be deemed to have received all profits and benefits accruing
to him from such business, in trust for the company under his management or
the subsidiary of such company, as the case may be; and where such profits and
benefits are deemed to have been so received by the managing agent in trust
for two or more such companies or subsidiaries, such profits and benefits
shall be held by the managing agent in trust for each of them in such
proportions as may be agreed upon between them or, failing such agreement, as
may be decided by the Court.
376. Condition prohibiting reconstruction or amalgamation of company except on continuance of managing agent, etc., to be void. Where any provision in the memorandum or articles of a company, or in any resolution passed in general meeting by, or by the
Board of directors of, the company, or in an agreement between the company and
its managing agent or any other person, whether made before or after the
commencement of this Act, prohibits the recons- truction of the company or its
amalgamation with any other body corporate or bodies corporate, either
absolutely or except on the condition that the managing director, managing
agent, secretaries and treasurers, or manager of the company is appointed or
reappointed as secretaries and treasurers, managing director, managing agent,
or manager of the reconstructed company or of the body resulting from
amalgamation, as the case may be, shall become void with effect from the
commencement of this Act, or be void, as the case may be.
377. Restrictions on right of managing agent to appoint directors.
(1) The managing agent of a company may, if so authorised by its articles,
appoint not more than two directors where the total number of the directors
exceeds five, and one director where the total number does not exceed five.
(1A) 1 Nothing contained in sub- section (1), or In any other provision of
this Act, or in the memorandum or articles of a company, or in any agreement
executed by it, or in any resolution passed by the company in general meeting,
or by its Board of directors shall be deemed to authorise the managing agent
to appoint the chairman of the Board of directors.]
(2) The managing agent may, at any time, remove any director so appointed, and
appoint another director in his place or in the place of a director so
appointed who resigns or otherwise vacates his office.
(3) Any provision contained in the articles of, or in any agreement with, the
company, authorising the managing agent to appoint more than the number of
directors authorised under sub- section (1), which is in force immediately
before the commencement of this Act, shall, in regard to the excess, be void,
with effect from the expiry of one month from such commencement.
(4) Where at the commencement of this Act, the number of direc- tors appointed
by the managing agent exceeds the number authorised under sub- section (1),
the managing agent shall determine which of them shall continue to hold
office, and intimate the choice made by him to the company before the expiry
of one month from such com- mencement; and only the director or directors so
chosen shall conti- nue to hold office as directors after such expiry.
1\. Ins. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 141.
(5) If no choice is made by the managing agent as aforesaid, all the directors
appointed by him shall, with effect from the expiry of one month from the
commencement of this Act, be deemed to have vacated their offices.
(6) 1 Where from any cause the total number of directors is so reduced as not
to exceed five, but the number of directors appointed by the managing agent
exceeds, after such reduction, the number authorised under sub- section (1),
the managing agent shall determine which of them shall continue to hold office
and intimate the choice made by him to the company before the expiry of one
month from the happening of the cause and only the director so chosen shall
continue to hold office as director with effect from such expiry: Provided
that if no choice is made by the managing agent as aforesaid, all the
directors appointed by him shall with effect from such expiry, be deemed to
have vacated their offices.] CHAP A SECRETARIES AND TREASURERS CHAPTER IV.- A.
SECRETARIES AND TREASURERS
378. Appointment of secretaries and treasurers. Subject to the provisions of this Chapter, a company may appoint a firm or body corporate as its secretaries and treasurers. 2
379. Provisions applicable to managing agents to apply to secretaries and treasurers with the exceptions and modifications specified in sections 380 to 383. Subject to the exceptions and modifications specified in sections 380 to 383,-
(a) all the provisions of this Act applicable to, or in relation to, a
managing agent which is a firm or body corporate shall apply to secretaries
and treasurers; and
(b) all the provisions of this Act applicable to, or in relation to, any
person or persons connected or associated in any manner with such a managing
agent shall apply to, or in relation to, any person or persons connected or
associated with secretaries and treasurers in the like manner; and subject as
aforesaid 3 and unless the context otherwise requires], all references in this
Act to a managing agent or any person or persons connected or associated in
any manner with a managing agent shall be construed accordingly, as including
a reference to secretaries and treasurers or to the person or persons
connected or associated with them in the like manner.
1\. Ins. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 141.
2\. Proviso omitted by s. 142, ibid.
3\. Ins. by s. 143, ibid.
380. Sections 324, 330 and 332 shall not apply to secretaries and treasurers.
381. Section 348 to apply subject to a modification. Section 348 shall apply to secretaries and treasurers subject to the modification that for the words" ten per cent. of the net 1 profits" occurring in the section, the words" seven and a half per cent. of the net 1 profits" shall be substituted.
382. Secretaries and treasurers not to appoint directors. Secretaries and treasurers shall have no right to appoint any director of the company; and sections 377 and 261 shall not apply to, or in relation to, secretaries and treasurers, or persons connected or associated with them in the manner in which the persons specified in section 261 are connected or associated with managing agents.
383. Secretaries and treasurers not to sell goods or articles produced by Secretaries and treasurers shall have no right, unless, and except to the extent to which, they are authorised by the Board of directors, to sell any goods or articles manufactured or produced by the company, or to purchase, obtain, or acquire machinery, stores, goods or materials for the purposes of the company, or to sell the same when no longer required for those purposes.
Certain companies to have secretaries.
383A. 2 Certain companies to have secretaries.
(1) Every company 3 having such paid- up share capital as may be prescribed]
shall have a whole- time secretary, and where the Board of directors of any
such company comprises only two directors, neither of them shall be the
secretary of the company.
(1A) 1 If a company fails to comply with the provisions of sub- section (1),
the company and every officer of the company who is in default, shall be
punishable with fine which may extend to fifty rupees for every day during
which the default continues: Provided that in any proceedings against a person
in respect of an offence under this sub- section, it shall be a defence to
prove that all reasonable efforts to comply with the provisions of sub-
section (1) were taken or that the financial position of the company was such
that it was beyond its capacity to engage a whole- time secretary.]
(2) Where, at the commencement of the Companies (Amendment) Act, 1974 (31 of
1974 ),--
(a) any firm or body corporate is holding office, as the secretary of a
company, such firm or body corporate shall, within six months from such
commencement, vacate office as secretary of such company;
(b) any individual is holding office as the secretary of more than one company
having a paid- up share capital of
1\. The word" annual" omitted by Act 65 of 1960, s. 144.
2\. Ins by Act 41 of 1974, s. 30. (w. e. f. 1- 2- 1975 ).
3\. Subs. by Act 31 of 1988, s. 53 (w. e. f. 1- 12- 1988 ).
4\. Ins. by s. 53, ibid.
rupees twenty- five lakhs or more, he shall, within a period of six months
from such commencement, exercise his option as to the company of which he
intends to continue as the secretary and shall, on and from such date, vacate
office as secretary in relation to all other companies.] B. MANAGERS
384. Firm or body corporate not to be appointed manager. 1 No company] shall, after the commencement of this Act, appoint or employ, or after the expiry of six months from such commencement, continue the appointment or employment of, any firm, body corporate or association as its manager.
385. Certain persons not to be appointed managers.
(1) No company shall, after the commencement of this Act, appoint or employ,
or continue the appointment or employment of, any person as its manager who-
(a) is an undischarged insolvent, or has at any time within the preceding five
years been adjudged an insolvent; or
(b) suspends, or has at any time within the preceding five years suspended,
payment to his creditors; or makes, or has at any time within the preceding
five years made, a composition with them; or
(c) is, or has at any time within the preceding five years been, convicted by
a Court in India of an offence involving moral turpitude.
(2) The Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette,
remove the disqualification incurred by any person in virtue of clause (a),
(b), or (c) of sub- section (1), either generally or in relation to any
company or companies specified in the notification.
386. Number of companies of which a person may be appointed manager.
(1) No company shall, after the commencement of this Act, appoint or employ
any person as manager, if he is either the manager or the managing director of
any other company, except as provided in sub- section (2).
(2) A company may appoint or employ a person as its manager, if he is the
manager or managing director of one, and not more than one, other company:
1\. Subs. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 145, for certain words.
Provided that such appointment or employment is made or approved by a
resolution passed at a meeting of the Board with the consent of all the
directors present at the meeting, and of which meeting and of the resolution
to be moved thereat, specific notice has been given to all the directors then
in India.
(3) Where, at the commencement of this Act, any person is holding the office
either of manager or of managing director in more than two companies, he
shall, within one year from the commencement of this Act, choose not more than
two of those companies as companies in which he wishes to continue to hold the
office of manager or managing director, as the case may be; and the provisions
of clauses (b) and (c) of sub- section (1) and of sub- sections (2) and (3) of
section 276 shall apply mutatis mutandis in relation. to this case, as those
provisions apply in relation to the case of a director.
(4) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub- sections (1) to (3), the
Central Government may, by order, permit any person to be appointed as a
manager of more than two companies, if the Central Government is satisfied
that it is necessary that the companies should, for their proper working,
function as a single unit and have a common manager. 1
387. Remuneration of manager. The manager of a company may, subject to the provisions of section 198, receive remuneration either by way of a monthly payment, or by way of a specific percentage, 2 , of the" net profits" of the company calculated in the manner laid down in sections 349, 350 and 351, or partly by the one way and partly by the other: 3 Provided that except with the approval of the Central Govern- ment such remuneration shall not exceed in the aggregate five per cent. of the net profits.]
1\. Sub- section (5) omitted by Act 65 of 1960, s. 146.
2\. The words" not exceeding five" omitted by s. 147, ibid.
3\. Ins. by s. 147, ibid.
388. Application of sections 269, 310, 311, 312 and 317 to managers. The provisions of sections 1 269, 310], 311 and 317 shall apply in relation to the manager of a company as they apply in relation to a managing director thereof, and those of section 312 shall apply in relation to the manager of a company, as they apply to a director thereof.
Sections 386 to 388 not to apply to certain private companies.
388A. 2 Sections 386 to 388 not to apply to certain private companies.
Sections 386, 387 and 388 shall not apply to a private company unless it is a
subsidiary of a public company.] 3 CHAPTER IVA.- POWERS OF CENTRAL GOVERNMENT
TO REMOVE MANAGERIAL PERSONNEL FROM OFFICE ON THE RECOMMENDATION OF THE 4
Company Law Board]
Reference to Company Law Board of cases against managerial personnel.
388B. Reference to Company Law Board of cases against managerial personnel.
(1) Where in the opinion of the Central Government there are circumstances
suggesting-
(a) that any person concerned in the conduct and management of the affairs of
a company is or has been in connection therewith guilty of fraud, misfeasance,
persistent negligence or default in carrying out his obligations and functions
under the law, or breach of trust; or
(b) that the business of a company is not or has not been conducted and
managed by such person in accordance with sound business principles or prudent
commercial practices; or
(c) that a company is or has been conducted and managed by such person in a
manner which is likely to cause, or has caused, serious injury or damage to
the interest of the trade, industry or business to which such company
pertains; or
(d) that the business of a company is or has been conducted and managed by
such person with intent to defraud its creditors, members or any other persons
or otherwise for a fraudulent or unlawful purpose or in a manner prejudicial
to public interest, the Central Government may state a case against the person
aforesaid and refer the same to the 4 Company Law Board.] with a request that
the
1\. Subs. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 148, for" 310"
2\. Ins. by s. 149, ibid.
3\. Ins. by Act 53 of 1963, s. 9 (w. e. f. 1- 1- 1964 ).
4\. Subs. by Act 31 of 1988, s. 67 (w. e. f. 31. 5. 1991 )
1 Company Law Board] may inquire into the case and 2 record a decision] as to
whether or not such person is a fit and proper person to hold the office of
director or any other office connected with the conduct and management of any
company.
(2) Every case under sub- section (1) shall be stated in the form of an
application which shall be presented to the 1 Company Law Board] or such
officer thereof as it may appoint in this behalf.
(3) The person against whom a case is referred to the 1 Company Law Board]
under this section shall be joined as a respondent to the application.
(4) Every such application-
(a) shall contain a concise statement of such circumstances and materials as
the Central Government may consider neces- sary for the purpose of the
inquiry, and
(b) shall be signed and verified in the manner laid down in the Code of Civil
Procedure, 1908 , (5 of 1908 .) for the signature and verification of a plaint
in a suit by the Central Government.
(5) The 1 Company Law Board] may at any stage of the proceedings allow the
Central Government to alter or amend the application in such manner and no
such terms as may be just, and all such alterations or amendments shall be
made as may be necessary for the purpose of determining the real questions in
the inquiry.
Interim order by Company Law Board.
388C. Interim order by Company Law Board.
(1) Where during the pendency of a case before the 1 Company Law Board] it
appears necessary to the 1 Company Law Board] so to do in the interest of the
members or creditors of the company or in the public interest, the 1 Company
Law Board] may on the application of the Central Government or on its own
motion by an order-
(a) direct that the respondent shall not discharge any of the duties of his
office until further orders of the 1 Company Law Board], and
(b) appoint a suitable person in place of the respondent to discharge the
duties of the office held by the respondent subject to such terms and
conditions as the 1 Company Law Board] may specify in the order.
(2) Every person appointed under clause (b) of sub- section (1) shall be
deemed to be a public servant within the meaning of section 21 of the Indian
Penal Code (45 of 1860 ).
1\. Subs. by Act 31 of 1988, s. 67 (w. e. f. 31. 5. 1991 ). 2 Subs. by Act 17
of 1967 ), s. 4 and Sch., for record a finding (w. e. f. 1- 7- 1967 ).
Decision of the Company Law Board.
388D. Decision of the Company Law Board. At the conclusion of the hearing of
the case, the 7 Company Law Board] shall record its decision] stating therein
specifically as to whether or not the respondent is a fit and proper person to
hold the office of director or any other office connected with the conduct and
management of any company.
Power of Central Government to remove managerial personnel on thebasis of
Company Law Board' s decisions.
388E. Power of Central Government to remove managerial personnel on the basis
of Company Law Board' s decisions.
(1) Notwithstanding any other provision contained in this Act, the 2 Central
Government shall], by order, remove from office any director, or any other
person concerned in the conduct and management of the affairs, of a company,
against whom there is a 3 decision of the 1 Company Law Board under this
Chapter]: Provided that where a firm or a body corporate is concerned in the
conduct and management of the affairs of a company as its managing agent
orsecretaries and treasurers, and the 4 decision of the 1 Company Law Board]
is against any partner in such firm, or any director of, or any person holding
a general power of attorney from, such body corporate, the Central Government
may also remove from the office of managing agent or secretaries and
treasurers, such firm or body corporate.
(2) 5 No order removing a firm or body corporate from the office of managing
agents or secretaries and treasurers shall be made in pursuance of the proviso
to sub- section (1) unless such firm or body corporate has been given a
reasonable opportunity of showing cause against the same: Provided that no
matter shall be raised by such firm or body cor- porate before the Central
Government if such matter has been decided by the 1 Company Law Board].
(3) The person against whom an order of removal from office is made under this
section shall not hold the office of a director or any other office connected
with the conduct and management of the affairs of any company during a period
of five years from the date of the order of removal: Provided that the Central
Government may, with the previous concurrence of the 1 Company Law Board]
permit such person to hold any
1\. Subs. by Act 31 of 1988, s. 67 (w. e. f. 31- 5- 1991 ).
2\. Subs. by Act 17 of 1967, s. 4 and Sch., for" Central Gover- nment may" (w.
e. f. 1- 71967).
3\. Subs. by s. 4 and Sch., ibid., for" finding of the Tribunal under this
Chapter or a decision of a High Court thereon" (w. e. f 1- 7- 1967 ).
4\. Subs. S. 4 and Sch., ibid., for" finding of the Tribunal or the decision
of a High Court" (w. e. f. 1- 7- 1967 ).
5\. Subs. by s. 4 and Sch., ibid., for sub- section (2) (w. e. f. 1- 7- 1967
).
such office before the expiry of the said period of five years.
(4) Notwithstanding anything contained in any other provision of this Act or
any other law or any contract, memorandum or articles, on the removal of a
person from the office of a director or, as the case may be, any other office
connected with the conduct and management of the affairs of the company, that
person shall not be entitled to, or be paid, any compensation for the loss or
termination of office.
(5) On the removal of a person from the office of a director or, as the case
may be, any other office connected with the conduct and management of the
affairs of the company, the company may, with the previous approval of the
Central Government, appoint another person to that office in accordance with
the provision of this Act. CHAP ARBITRATION, COMPROMISES, ARRANGEMENTS AND
RECONSTRUCTIONS CHAPTER V.- ARBITRATION, COMPROMISES, ARRANGEMENTS AND
RECONSTRUCTIONS
389. [ Power for companies to refer matters to arbitration.] Rep. by the Companies (Amendment) Act, 1960 (65 of 1960 ), s. 150.
390. Interpretation of sections 391 and 393. In sections 391 and 393,-
(a) the expression" company" means any company liable to be wound up under
this Act;
(b) the expression" arrangement includes a reorganization of the share capital
of the company by the consolidation of shares of different classes, or by the
division of shares into shares of different classes or, by both those methods;
and
(c) unsecured creditors who may have filed suits, or obtained decrees shall he
deemed to be of the same class as other unsecured creditors.
391. Power to compromise or make arrangements with creditors and members.
(1) Where a compromise or arrangement is proposed-
(a) between a company and its creditors or any class of them; or
(b) between a company and its members or any class of them; the Court may, on
the application of the company or of any creditor or member of the company,
or, in the case of a company, which is being wound up, of the liquidator,
order a meeting of the creditors or class of creditors, or of the members or
class of members, as the
case may be, to be called, held and conducted in such manner as the Court
directs.
(2) If a majority in number representing three- fourths in value of the
creditors, or class of creditors, or members, or class of members as the case
may be, present and voting either in person or, where proxies are allowed 1
under the rules made under section 643], by proxy, at the meeting, agree to
any compromise or arrangement, the compromise or arrangement shall, if
sanctioned by the Court, be bind- ing on all the creditors, all the creditors
of the class, all the members, or all the members of the class, as the case
may be, and also on the company, or, in the case of a company which is being
wound up, on the liquidator and contributories of the company: 2 Provided that
no order sanctioning any compromise or arrange- ment shall be made by the
Court unless the Court is satisfied that the company or any other person by
whom an application has been made under sub- section (1) has disclosed to the
Court, by affidavit or otherwise, all material facts relating to the company,
such as the latest financial position of the company, the latest auditor' s
report on the accounts of the company, the pendency of any investigation
proceedings in relation to the company under sections 235 to 251, and the
like.]
(3) An order made by the Court under sub- section (2) shall have no effect
until a certified copy of the order has been filed with the Registrar.
(4) A copy of every such order shall be annexed to every copy of the
memorandum of the company issued after the certified copy of the order has
been filed as aforesaid, or in the case of a company not having a memorandum,
to every copy so issued of the instrument constituting or defining the
constitution of the company.
(5) If default is made in complying with sub- section (4), the company, and
every officer of the company who is in default, shall be punishable with fine
which may extend to ten rupees for each copy in respect of which default is
made.
(6) The Court may, at any time after an application has been made to it under
this section, stay the commencement or continuation of any suit or proceeding
against the company on such terms as the Court thinks fit, until the
application is finally disposed of.
(7) An appeal shall lie from any order made by a Court exercising original
jurisdiction under this section to the Court empowered to
1\. Ins. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 151.
2\. Added by Act 31 of 1965, s. 48 (w. e. f. 15- 10- 1965 ).
hear appeals from the decisions of that Court, or if more than one Court is so
empowered, to the Court of inferior jurisdiction. The provisions of sub-
sections (3) to (6) shall apply in relation to the appellate order and the
appeal as they apply in relation to the original order and the application.
392. Power of High Court to enforce compromises and arrangements.
(1) Where a High Court makes an order under section 391 sanctioning a
compromise or an arrangement in respect of a company, it--
(a) shall have power to supervise the carrying out of the compromise or
arrangement; and
(b) may, at the time of making such order or at any time thereafter, give such
directions in regard to any matter
or make such modifications in the compromise or arrangement as it may consider
necessary for the proper working of the compromise or arrangement.
(2) If the Court aforesaid is satisfied that a compromise or arrangement
sanctioned under section 391 cannot be worked satisfactorily with or without
modifications, it may, either on its own motion or on the application of any
person interested in the affairs of the company, make an order winding up the
company, and such an order shall be deemed to be an order made under section
433 of this Act.
(3) The provisions of this section shall, so far as may be, also apply to a
company in respect of which an order has been made before the commencement of
this Act under section 153 of the Indian Companies Act, 1913 , (7 of 1913 )
sanctioning a compromise or an arrangement.
393. Information as to compromises or arrangements with creditors and members.
(1) Where a meeting of creditors or any class of creditors, or of members or
any class of members, is called under section 391,-
(a) with every notice calling the meeting which is sent to a creditor or
member, there shall be sent also a statement setting forth the terms of the
compromise or arrangement and explaining its effect; and in particular,
stating any material interests of the directors, managing director, managing
agent, secretaries and treasurers or manager of the company, whether in their
capacity as such or as members or creditors of the company or otherwise, and
the effect on those interests, of the compromise or arrangement, if, and in so
far as, it is different from the effect on the like interests of other
persons; and
(b) in every notice calling the meeting which is given by advertisement, there
shall be included either such a statement as aforesaid or a notification of
the place at which and the manner in which creditors or members entitled to
attend the meeting may obtain copies of such a statement as aforesaid.
(2) Where the compromise or arrangement affects the rights of debenture
holders of the company, the said statement shall give the like information and
explanation as respects the trustees of any deed for securing the issue of the
debentures as it is required to give as respects the company' s directors.
(3) Where a notice given by advertisement includes a notification that copies
of a statement setting forth the terms of the compromise or arrangement
proposed and explaining its effect can be obtained
by creditors or members entitled to attend the meeting, every creditor or
member so entitled shall, on making an application in the manner indicated by
the notice, be furnished by the company, free of charge, with a copy of the
statement.
(4) Where default is made in complying with any of the requirements of this
section, the company, and every officer of the company who is in default,
shall be punishable with fine which may extend to five thousand rupees; and
for the purpose of this sub- section any liquidator of the company and any
trustee of a deed for securing the issue of debentures of the company shall be
deemed to be an officer of the company: Provided that a person shall not be
punishable under this sub- section if he shows that the default was due to the
refusal of any other person, being a director, managing director, managing
agent, secretaries and treasurers, manager or trustee for debenture holders,
to supply the necessary particulars as to his material interests.
(5) Every director, managing director, managing agent, secre- taries and
treasurers or manager of the company, and every trustee for debenture holders
of the company, shall give notice to the company of such matters relating to
himself as may be necessary for the purposes of this section; and if he falls
to do so, he shall be punishable with fine which may extend to five hundred
rupees.
394. Provisions for facilitating reconstruction and amalgamation of companies.
(1) Where an application is made to the Court under section 391 for the
sanctioning of a compromise or arrangement proposed between a company and any
such persons as are mentioned in that section, and it is shown to the Court-
(a) that the compromise or arrangement has been proposed for the purposes of,
or in connection with, a scheme for the reconstruction of any company or
companies, or the amalgamation of any two or more companies; and
(b) that under the scheme the whole or any part of the undertaking, property
or liabilities of any company concerned in the scheme (in this section
referred to as a" transferor company") is to be transferred to another company
(in this section referred to as". the transferee company"); the Court may,
either by the order sanctioning the compromise or arrangement or by a
subsequent order, make provision for all or any of the following matters:-
(i) the transfer to the transferee company of the whole or any part of the
undertaking, property or liabilities of any transferor company;
(ii) the allotment or appropriation by the transferee company of any shares,
debentures, policies, or other like interests in that company which, under the
compromise or arrangement, are to be allotted or appropriated by that company
to or for any person;
(iii) the continuation by or against the transferee company of any legal
proceedings pending by or against any transferor company;
(iv) the dissolution, without winding up, of any transferor company;
(v) the provision to be made for any persons who, within such time and in such
manner as the Court directs, dissent from the compromise or arrangement; and
(vi) such incidental, consequential and supplemental matters as are necessary
to secure that the reconstruction or amalgamation shall be fully and
effectively carried out: 1 Provided that no compromise or arrangement proposed
for the purposes of, or in connection with, a scheme for the amalgamation of a
company, which is being wound up, with any other company or companies, shall
be sanctioned by the Court unless the Court has received a report from the
Company Law Board, or the Registrar that the affairs of the company have not
been conducted in a manner prejudicial to the interests of its members or to
public interest: Provided further that no order for the dissolution of any
trans- feror company under clause (iv). shall be made by the Court unless the
Official Liquidator has, on scrutiny of the books and papers of the company,
made a report to the Court that the affairs of the company have not been
conducted in a manner prejudicial to the interests of its members or to public
interest.]
(2) Where an order under this section provides for the transfer of any
property or liabilities, then, by virtue of the order, that property shall be
transferred to and vest in, and those liabilities shall be transferred to and
become the liabilities of, the transferee company; and in the case of any
property, if the order so directs, freed from any charge which is, by virtue
of the compromise or arrangement, to cease to have effect.
(3) Within 2 thirty] days after the making of an order under this section
every company in relation to which the order is made shall
1\. Added by Act 31 of 1965, s. 49 (w. e. f. 15- 10- 1965 ).
2\. Subs. by s. 62 and Sch., ibid. for" fourteen" (w. e. f. 15- 10- 1965 ).
cause a certified copy thereof to be filed with the Registrar for
registration. If default is made in complying with this sub- section, the com-
pany, and every officer of the company who is in default, shall be punishable
with fine which may extend to fifty rupees.
(4) In this section-
(a) " property" includes property, rights and powers of every description and"
liabilities" includes duties of every description; and
(b) " transferee company" does not include any company other than a company
within the meaning of this Act; but" transferor company" includes any body
corporate, whether a company within the meaning of this Act or not.
Notice to be given to Central Government for applications under sec- tions 391
and 394.
394A. 1 Notice to be given to Central Government for applications under
sections 391 and 394. The Court shall give notice of every application made to
it under section 391 or 394 to the Central Government, and shall take into
consideration the representations, if any, made to it by that Government
before passing any order under any of these sections.]
395. Power and duty to acquire shares of shareholders dissenting from scheme or contract approved by majority.
(1) Where a scheme or contract involving the transfer of shares or any class
of shares in a company (in this section referred to as" the transferor
company") to another company (in this section referred to as" the transferee
company"), has, within four months after the making of the offer in that
behalf by the transferee company, been approved by the holders of not less
than nine- tenths in value of the shares whose transfer is involved (other
than shares already held at the date of the offer by, or by a nominee for, the
transferee company or its subsidiary), the transferee company may, at any time
within two months after the expiry of the said four months, give notice in the
prescribed manner to any dissenting shareholder, that it desires to acquire
his shares; and when such a notice is given, the transferee company shall,
unless, on an application made by the dissenting shareholder within one month
from the date on which the notice was given, the Court thinks fit to order
otherwise, be entitled and bound to acquire those shares on the terms on
which, under the scheme or contract, the shares of the approving shareholders
are to be trans- ferred to the transferee company: Provided that where shares
in the transferor company of the same class as the shares whose transfer is
involved are already held as aforesaid to a value greater than one- tenth of
the aggregate of the
1\. Ins. by Act 31 of 1965, s. 50 (w. e. f. 15- 10- 1965 ).
values of all the shares in the company of such class, the foregoing
provisions of this sub- section shall not apply, unless-
(a) the transferee company offers the same terms to all holders of the shares
of that class (other than those already held as aforesaid) whose transfer is
involved; and
(b) the holders who approve the scheme or contract, besides holding not less
than nine- tenths in value of the shares (other than those already held as
aforesaid) whose transfer is involved, are not less than three- fourths in
number of the holders of those shares;
(2) Where, in pursuance of any such scheme or contract as afore- said, shares,
or shares of any class, in a company are transferred to another company or its
nominee, and those shares together with any other shares or any other shares
of the same class, as the case may be, in the first- mentioned company held at
the date of the transfer by, or by a nominee for, the transferee company or
its subsidiary com- prise nine- tenths in value of the shares. or the shares
of that class, as the case may be, in the first- mentioned company, then,-
(a) the transferee company shall, within one month from the date of the
transfer (unless on a previous transfer in pur- suance of the scheme or
contract it has already complied with this requirement), give notice of that
fact in the prescribed manner to the holders of the remaining shares or of the
remaining shares of that class, as the case may be, who have not assented to
the scheme or contract; and
(b) any such holder may, within three months from the giving of the notice to
him, require the transferee company to acquire the shares in question and
where a shareholder gives notice under clause (b) with respect to any shares,
the transferee company shall be entitled and bound to acquire those shares on
the terms on which, under the scheme or contract, the shares of the approving
shareholders were transferred to it, or on such other terms as may be agreed,
or as the Court on the application of either the transferee company or the
shareholder thinks fit to order.
(3) Where a notice has been given by the transferee company under sub- section
(1) and the Court has not, on an application made by the dissenting
shareholder, made an order to the contrary, the transferee company shall, on
the expiry of one month from the date on which the notice has been given, or,
if an application to the Court by the dissenting shareholder is then pending,
after that application
has been disposed of, transmit a copy of the notice to the transferor company
together with an instrument of transfer executed on behalf of the shareholder
by any person appointed by the transferee company and on its own behalf by the
transferee company, and pay or transfer to the transferor company the amount
or other consideration representing the price payable by the transferee
company for the shares which, by virtue of this section, that company is
entitled to acquire; and 1 the transferor company shall--
(a) thereupon register the transferee company as the holder of those shares.
and
(b) within one month of the date of such registration, inform the dissenting
shareholders of the fact of such registration and of the receipt of the amount
or other consideration representing the price payable to them by the
transferee company:] Provided that an instrument of transfer shall not be
required for any share for which a share warrant is for the time being
outstanding.
(4) Any sums received by the transferor company under this section shall be
paid into a separate bank account, and any such sums and any other
consideration so received shall be held by that company in trust for the
several persons entitled to the shares in respect of which the said sums or
other consideration were respectively received.
(4A) 2
(a) The following provisions shall apply in relation to every offer of a
scheme or contract involving the transfer of shares or any class of shares in
the transferor company to the transferee company, namely:-
(i) every such offer or every circular containing such offer or every
recommendation to the members of the transferor company by its directors to
accept such offer shall be accompanied by such information as may be
prescribed;
(ii) every such offer shall contain a statement by or on behalf of the
transferee company, disclosing the steps it has taken to ensure that necessary
cash will be available;
(iii) every circular containing, or recommending acceptance of, such offer
shall be presented to the Registrar for registration and no such circular
shall be issued until it is so registered;
1\. Subs. by Act 31 of 1965, s. 58, for certain words (w. e. f. 15- 10- 1965
).
2\. Ins. by s. 51, ibid. (w. e. f. 15- 10- 1965 ).
(iv) the Registrar may refuse to register any such circular which does not
contain the information required to be given under sub- clause (i) or which
sets out such information in a manner likely to give a false impression; and
(v) an appeal shall lie to the Court against an order of the Registrar
refusing to register any such circular.
(b) Whoever issues a circular referred to in sub- clause (iii) of clause (a),
which has not been registered, shall be punishable with fine which may extend
to five hundred rupees.]
(5) In this section-
(a) " dissenting shareholder" includes a shareholder who has not assented to
the scheme or contract and any shareholder who has failed or refused to
transfer his shares to the transferee company in accordance with the scheme or
contract;
(b) transferor company" and" transferee company" shall have the same meaning
as in section 394.
(6) In relation to an offer made by the transferee company to shareholders of
the transferor company before the commencement of this Act, this section shall
have effect-
(a) with the substitution, in sub- section (1), for the words" the shares
whose transfer is involved (other than shares already held at the date of the
offer by, or by a nominee for, the transferee company or its subsidiary)," of
the words" the shares affected" and with the omission of the proviso to that
sub- section;
(b) with the omission of sub- section (2);
(c) with the omission in sub- section (3) of the words" together with an
instrument of transfer executed on behalf of the shareholder by any person
appointed by the transferee company and on its own behalf by the transferee
company and of the proviso to that sub- section; and
(d) with the omission of clause (b) of sub- section (5).
396. Power of Central Government to provide for amalgamation of companies in public interest.
(1) Where the Central Government is satisfied that it is essential in the 1
public interest] that two or more companies should amalgamate, then,
notwithstanding anything contained in sections
1\. Subs. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 152, for" national interest".
394 and 395 but subject to the provisions of this section, the Central
Government may, by order notified in the Official Gazette, provide for the
amalgamation of those companies into a single company with such constitution;
with such property, powers, rights, interests, authorities and privileges; and
with such liabilities, duties, and obligations; as may be specified in the
order.
(2) 1 The order aforesaid may provide for the continuation by or against the
transferee company of any legal proceedings pending by or against any
transferor company and may also] contain such consequential, incidental and
supplemental provisions as may, in the opinion of the Central Government, be
necessary to give effect to the amalgamation.
(3) Every member or creditor (including a debenture holder) of each of the
companies before the amalgamation shall have, as nearly as may be, the same
interest in or rights against the company resulting from the amalgamation as
he had in the company of which he was originally a member or creditor; and to
the extent to Which the interest or rights of such member or creditor in or
against the com- pany resulting from the amalgamation are less than his
interest in or rights against the original company, he shall be entitled to
com- pensation which shall be assessed by such authority 1 as may be
prescribed and every such assessment shall be published in the Official
Gazette] The compensation so assessed shall be paid to the member or creditor
concerned by the company resulting from the amalgamation.
(3A) 2 Any person aggrieved by any assessment of compensation made by the
prescribed authority under sub- section (3) may, within thirty days from the
date of publication of such assessment in the Official Gazette, prefer an
appeal to the Company Law Board and thereupon the assessment of the
compensation shall be made by the Company Law Board]
(4) No order shall be made under this section, unless-
(a) a copy of the proposed order has been sent in draft to each of the
companies concerned; 3
(aa) 2 the time for preferring an appeal under sub- section (3A) has expired,
or where any such appeal has been preferred, the appeal has been finally
disposed of; and]
(b) the Central Government has considered, and made such- modifications, if
any, in the draft order as may seem to it desirable in the light of any
suggestions and objections which may be received by it from any such company
within such period as the Central Government may fix in that behalf. not being
less than two months from the date on which the copy aforesaid is received by
that company, or from any class of shareholders therein, or from any creditors
or any class of creditors thereof.
(5) Copies of every order made under this section shall, as soon as may be
after it has been made, be laid before both Houses of Parliament.
Preservation of books and papers of amalgamated company.
396A. 4 Preservation of books and papers of amalgamated company. The books and
papers of a company which has been amalgamated with, or whose shares have been
acquired by, another
1\. Subs., by Act 35 of 1985, s. 3.
2\. Ins. by s. 3, ibid.
3\. Omitted by s. 3, ibid.
4\. Ins. by Act 31 of 1965, s. 52 (w. e. f. 15- 10- 1965 ).
company under this Chapter shall not be disposed of without the prior
permission of the Central Government and before granting such permission, that
Government may appoint a person to examine the books and papers or any of them
for the purpose of ascertaining whether they contain any evidence of the
commission of an offence in connection with the promotion or formation, or the
management of the affairs, of the first- mentioned company or its amalgamation
or the acquisition of its shares.] CHAP PREVENTION OF OPPRESSION AND
MISMANAGEMENT CHAPTER VI.- PREVENTION OF OPPRESSION AND MISMANAGEMENT A.
Powers of 1 Company Law Board]
397. Application to Company Law Board for relief in cases of oppression.
(1) Any members of a company who complain that the affairs of the company 2
are being conducted in a manner prejudicial to public interest or] in a manner
oppressive to any member or members (including any one or more of themselves)
may apply to the 1 Company Law board] for an order under this section,
provided such members have a right so to apply in virtue of section 399.
(2) If, on any application under sub- section (1), the 1 Company Law Board] is
of opinion-
(a) that the company' s affairs 2 are being conducted in a manner prejudicial
to public interest or] in a manner oppressive to any member or members; and
(b) that to wind up the company would unfairly prejudice such member or
members, but that otherwise the facts would justify the making of a winding-
up order on the ground that it was just and equitable that the company should
be wound up; the 1 Company Law Board] may with a view to bringing to an end
the matters complained of, make such order as it thinks fit.
398. Application to Company Law Board for relief in cases of mismanagement.
(1) Any members of a company who complain-
(a) that the affairs of the company 3 are being conducted in a manner
prejudicial to public interest or] in a manner prejudicial to the interests of
the company; or
(b) that a material change (not being a change brought about by, or in the
interests of, any creditors including deben-
1\. Subs. by Act 31 of 1988, s. 67 (w. e. f. 31- 5- 1991 ).
2\. Subs. by Act 53 of 1963, s. 10, for" are being conducted" (w. e. f. 1- 1-
1964 ).
3\. Subs. by s. 11, ibid., for" are being conducted" (w. e. f. 1- 1- 1964 ).
ture holders, or any class of shareholders, of the company) has taken place in
the management or control of the company, whether by an alteration in its
Board of directors, or of its managing agent or secretaries and treasurers 1
or manager], or in the constitution or control of the firm or body corporate
acting as its managing agent or secretaries and treasurers, or in the
ownership of the company' s shares, or if it has no share capital, in its
membership, or in any other manner whatsoever, and that by reason of such
change, it is likely that the affairs of the company 2 will be conducted in a
manner prejudicial to public interest or] in a manner prejudicial to the
interests of the company; may apply to the 3 Company Law Board] for an order
under this section, provided such members have a right so to apply in virtue
of section 399.
(2) If, on any application under sub- section (1), the 3 Company Law Board] is
of opinion that the affairs of the company are being conducted as aforesaid or
that by reason of any material change as aforesaid in the management or
control of the company, it is likely that the affairs of the company will be
conducted as aforesaid, the 3 Company Law Board] may, with view to bringing to
an end or preventing the matters complained or apprehended, make such order as
it thinks fit.
399. Right to apply under section 397 and 398.
(1) The following members of a company shall have the right to apply under
section 397 or 398:-
(a) in the case of a company having a share capital, not less than one hundred
members of the company or not less than one- tenth of the total number of its
members, whichever is less, or any member or members holding not less than
one- tenth of the issued share capital of the company, provided that the
applicant or applicants have paid all calls and other sums due on their
shares;
(b) in the case of a company not having a share capital, not less than one-
fifth of the total number of its members.
(2) For the purposes of sub- section (1), where any share or shares are held
by two or more persons jointly, they shall be counted only as one member.
1\. Ins. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 153.
2\. Subs. by Act 53 of 1963, s. 11, for" will be conducted" (w. e. f. 1- 1-
1964 ).
3\. Subs. by Act 31 of 1988, s. 67 (w. e. f. 31. 5. 1991 ).
(3) Where any members of a company are entitled to make an application in
virtue of sub- section (1), any one or more of them having obtained the
consent in writing of the rest, may make the application on behalf and for the
benefit of all of them.
(4) The Central Government may, if in its opinion circumstances exist which
make it just and equitable so to do, authorise any member or members of the
company to apply to, the 1 Company Law Board] under section 397 or 398,
notwithstanding that the requirements of clause (a) or (b), as the case may
be, of sub- section (1) are not fulfilled.
(5) The Central Government may before authorising any member or members as
aforesaid, require such member or members to give security for such amount as
the Central Government may deem reasonable, for the payment of any costs which
the 1 Company Law Board] dealing with the application, may order such member
or members to pay to any other person or persons who are parties to the
application.
400. Notice to be given to Central Government of applications under sections 397 and 398. The 1 Company Law Board] shall give notice of every application made to it under section 397 or 398 to. the Central Government, and shall take into consideration the representations, if any, made to it by that Government before passing a final order under that section.
401. Right of Central Government to apply under sections 397 and 398. The Central Government may itself apply to the 1 Company Law Board] for an order under section 397 or 398, or cause an application to be made to the 1 Company Law Board] for such an order by any person authorised by it in this behalf.
402. Powers of Company Law Board on application under section 397 or 398. Without prejudice to the generality of the powers of the 1 Company Law Board] under section 397 or 398, any order under either section may provide for-
(a) the regulation of the conduct of the company' s affairs in future;
(b) the purchase of the shares or interests of any members of the company by
other members thereof or by the company;
(c) in the case of a purchase of its shares by the company as aforesaid, the
consequent reduction of its share capital;
(d) the termination, setting aside or modification of any agreement, howsoever
arrived at, between the company on
1\. Subs. by Act 31 of 1988, s. 67 (w. e. f. 31. 5. 1991 ).
the one hand, and any of the following persons, on the other, namely:-
(i) the managing director,
(ii) any other director,
(iii) the managing agent,
(iv) the secretaries and treasurers, and
(v) the manager, upon such terms and conditions as may, in the opinion of the
1 Company Law Board] be just and equitable in all the circumstances of the
case;
(e) the termination, setting aside or modification of any agreement between
the company and any person not referred to in clause (d), provided that no
such agreement shall be terminated, set aside or modified except after due
notice to the party concerned and provided further that no such agreement
shall be modified except after obtaining the consent of the party concerned;
(f) the setting aside of any transfer, delivery of goods, payment, execution
or other act relating to property made or done by or against the company
within three months before the date of the application under section 397 or
398, which would, if made or done by or against an individual, be deemed in
his insolvency to be a fraudulent preference;
(g) any other matter for which in the opinion of the 1 Company Law Board] it
is just and equitable that provision should be made.
403. Interim order by Company Law Board. Pending the making by it of a final order under section 397 or 398, as the case may be, 1 Company Law Board] may, on the application of any party to the proceeding, make any interim order which it thinks fit for regulating the conduct of the company' s affairs, upon such terms and conditions as appear to it to be just and equitable.
404. Effect of alteration of memorandum or articles of company by order under section 397 or 398.
(1) Where an order under section 397 or 398 makes any alteration in the
memorandum or articles of a company, then, notwithstanding any other provision
of this Act, the company shall not have power, except to the extent, if any,
permitted in the order, to make without the leave of the 1 Company Law Board]
any alteration whatsoever which is inconsistent with the order, either in the
memorandum or in the articles.
1\. Subs. by Act 31 of 1988, s. 67 (w. e. f. 31. 5. 1991 )
(2) Subject to the provisions of sub- section (1), the alterations made by the
order shall, in all respects, have the same effect as if they had been duly
made by the company in accordance with the provisions or this Act; and the
said provisions shall apply accordingly to the memorandum or articles as so
altered.
(3) A certified copy of every order altering, or giving leave to alter, a
company' s memorandum or articles, shall within 1 thirty] days after the
making thereof, be filed by the company with the Registrar who shall register
the same.
(4) If default is made in complying with the provisions of sub- section (3),
the company, and every officer of the company who is in default, shall be
punishable with fine which may extend to five thousand rupees.
405. Addition of respondents to application under section 397 or 398. If the managing director or any other director, the managing agent, secretaries and treasurers or the manager, of a company, or any other person, who has not been impleaded as a respondent to any application under section 397 or 398 applies to be added as a respondent thereto, the 2 Company Law Board] shall, if it is satisfied that there is sufficient cause for doing so, direct that he may be added as a respondent accordingly.
406. Application of sections 539 to 544 to proceedings under sections 397 or 398. In relation to an application under section 397 or 398, sections 539 to 544, both inclusive, shall apply in the form set forth in Schedule XI.
407. Consequences of termination or modification of certain agreements.
(1) Where an order 3 made under section 397 or 398 terminates, sets aside, or
modifies an agreement such as is referred to in clause (d) or (e) of section
402,-
(a) the order shall not give rise to any claims whatever against the company
by any person for damages or for compen- sation for loss of office or in any
other respect, either in pursuance of the agreement or otherwise;
(b) no managing or other director, managing agent, secretaries and treasurers,
or manager whose agreement is so termi-
1\. Subs. by Act 31 of 1965, s. 62 and Sch. for" fifteen" (w. e. f. 15- 10-
1965 ).
2\. Subs. by Act 31 of 1988, s. 67 (w. e. f. 31- 5- 1991 ).
3\. Omitted by s. 67, ibid (w. e. f. S 31- 5- 1991 ).
nated or set aside and no person who, at the date of the order terminating or
setting aside the agreement was or subsequently becomes, an associate of such
managing agent or secretaries and treasurers shall, for a period of five years
from the date of 1 the order terminating or setting aside the agreement],
without the leave of the 2 Company Law Board], be appointed, or act, as the
managing or other director, managing agent, secretaries and treasurers, or
manager of the company.
(2) (a) Any person who knowingly acts as a managing or other director,
managing agent, secretaries and treasurers, or manager of, a company in
contravention of clause (b) of sub- section (1);
(b) where the person so acting as managing agent or as secre- taries and
treasurers is a firm or body corporate, every partner in the firm, or every
director of the body corporate who is knowingly a party to such contravention;
and
(c) every other director or every director, as the case may be, of the
company, who is knowingly a party to such contravention; shall be punishable
with imprisonment for a term which may extend to one year, or with fine which
may extend to five thousand rupees, or with both.
(3) 2 Company Law Board] under clause (b) of sub- section (1) unless notice of
the intention to apply for leave has been served on the Central Government and
that Government has been given an opportunity of being heard in the matter. B.
Powers of Central Government
408. Powers of Government to prevent oppression or mismanagement.
(1) 3 Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, the Central Government,
may appoint such number of persons as the Company Law Board may, by order in
writing, specify as being necessary to effectively safeguard the interests of
the company, or its shareholders or the public interests to hold office as
directors thereof for such period, not exceeding three years on any one
occasion, as it may think fit, if the Company Law Board, on a reference made
to it by the Central Government or on an application of not less than one
hundred members of the company or of the members of the company holding not
less than one- tenth of the total voting power therein, is satisfied, after
such inquiry as it deems fit to make, that it is necessary to make the
appointment or appointments in order to prevent the affairs of the company
being conducted either in a manner which is oppressive to any members of the
company or in a manner which is prejudicial to the interests of the company or
to public interest: Provided that in lieu of passing an order as aforesaid,
the Company Law Board may, if the company has not availed itself of the option
given to it under section 265, direct the company to amend its articles in the
manner provided in that section and make fresh appointments of directors in
pursuance of the articles as so amended, within such time as may be specified
in that behalf by the Company Law Board.
(2) In case the Company Law Board passes an order under the proviso to sub-
section (1), it may, if it thinks fit, direct that until new directors are
appointed in pursuance of the order aforesaid, such number of persons as the
Company Law Board may, by order, specify as being necessary to effectively
safeguard the interests of the company, or its shareholders or the public
interest, shall hold office as additional directors of the company and on such
directions, the Central Government shall appoint such additional directors.]
1\. Subs. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 154, for" the order terminating the
agreement".
2\. Subs. by Act 31 of 1988, s. 67 (w. e. f. 31- 5- 1991 ).
3\. Subs. by s. 67, ibid., (w. e. f. 31. 5. 1991 ).
(3) For the purpose of reckoning two- thirds or any other proportion of the
total number of directors of the company, any director or directors appointed
by the Central Government under sub- section (1) or (2) shall not be taken
into account.
(4) 1 A person appointed under sub- section (1) to hold office as a director
or a person directed under sub- section (2) to hold office as an additional
director, shall not be required to hold any qualification shares nor his
period of office shall be liable to determination by retirement of directors
by rotation; but any such director or additional director may be removed by
the Central Government from his office at any time and another person may be
appointed by that Government in his place to hold office as a director or, as
the case may be, an additional director.
1\. Ins. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 155.
(5) No change in the Board of directors made after a person is appointed or
directed to hold office as a director or additional director under this
section shall, so long as such director or additional director holds office,
have effect unless confirmed by the 1 Company Law Board.]
(6) 2 Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act or in any other law for
the time being in force, where any person is appointed by the Central
Government to hold office as director or additional director of a company in
pursuance of sub- section (1) or sub- section (2), the Central Government may
issue such directions to the company as it may consider necessary or
appropriate in regard to its affairs 3 and such directions may include
directions to remove an auditor already appointed and to appoint another
auditor in his place or to alter the articles of the company, and upon such
directions being given, the appointment, removal or alteration, as the case
may be, shall be deemed to have come into effect as if the provisions of this
Act in this behalf have been complied with without requiring any further act
or thing to be done.]
(7) The Central Government may require the persons appointed as directors or
additional directors in pursuance of sub- section (1) or sub- section (2) to
report to the Central Government from time to time with regard to the affairs
of the company.]
409. Power of company Law Board to prevent change in Board of directors likely to affect company prejudicially.
(1) Where a complaint is made to the 4 Company Law Board], by the managing
director or any other director, the managing agent, 5 the secretaries and
treasurers or the manager]. of a company that as a result of a change which
has taken place or is likely to take place in the ownership of any shares held
in the company, a change in the Board of directors is likely to take place
which (if allowed) would affect prejudicially the affairs of the company, the
4 Company Law Board] may, if satisfied, after such inquiry as it thinks fit to
make that it is just and proper so to do, by order, direct that 6 no
resolution passed or that may be passed or no action taken or that may be
taken] to effect a change in the Board of directors after the date of the
complaint shall have effect unless confirmed by the 4 Company Law Board] and
any such order shall have effect notwithstanding anything to the contrary
contained in any other provision of this Act or in the memorandum or articles
of the company, or in any agreement with, or any resolution passed in general
meeting by, or by the Board of directors of, the company.
(2) The 4 Company Law Board] shall have power when any such complaint is
received by it, to make an interim order to the effect set out in sub- section
(1), before making or completing the inquiry aforesaid.
1\. Subs. by Act 31 of 1988, s. 54 (w. e. f. 15. 6. 1988 ).
2\. Ins. by Act 41 of 1974, s. 31 (w. e. f. 1- 2- 1975 ).
3\. Added by Act 31 of 1988, s. 54 (w. e. f. 15- 6- 1988 ).
4\. Subs. by s. 67, ibid, (w. e. f. 31. 5. 1991 ).
5\. Subs. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 156, for" or the secretaries and treasurers".
6\. Subs. by s. 156, ibid., for" no resolution passed or action taken".
(3) Nothing contained in sub- sections (1) and (2) shall apply to a private
company, unless it is a subsidiary of a public company. CHAP CONSTITUTION AND
POWERS OF 1 ADVISORY COMMITTEE] CHAPTER VII.- CONSTITUTION AND POWERS OF 1
ADVISORY COMMITTEE]
410. 2 Appointment of Advisory Committee. For the purpose of advising the Central Government and the Company Law Board on such matters arising out of the administration of this Act as may be referred to it by that Government or Board, the Central Government, may constitute an Advisory Committee consisting of not more than five persons with suitable qualifications.] CHAP MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS CHAPTER VIII.- MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS Contracts where company is undisclosed principal
416. Contracts by agents of company in which company is undisclosed principal.
(1) Every person, being the managing agent, secretaries and treasurers,
manager or other agent of a public company or of a private company which is a
subsidiary of a public company, who enters into a contract for or on behalf of
the company in which contract the company is an undisclosed principal shall,
at the time of entering into the contract, make a memorandum in writing of the
terms of the contract, and specify therein the person with whom it is entered
into.
(2) Every such person who enters into a contract as aforesaid shall forthwith
deliver the memorandum to the company and send copies thereof to each of the
directors; and such memorandum shall
1\. Subs. by Act 31 of 1965, s. 53, for" ADVISORY COMMISSION" (w. e. f. 15-
10- 1965 ).
2\. Subs. by s. 53, ibid, for sections 410- 415 (w. e. f. 15- 10- 1965 ).
be filed in the office of the company and laid before the Board of directors
at its next meeting.
(3) If default is made in complying with the requirements of this section,-
(a) the contract shall, at the option of the company, be voidable as against
the company; and
(b) the person who enters into the contract, or every officer of the company
who is in default, as the case may be, shall be punishable with fine which may
extend to two hundred rupees. Employees' securities and provident funds
417. Employees' securities to be deposited in post office savings bank or Scheduled Bank. 1
(1) Any money or security deposited with a company by any of its employee in
pursuance of his contract of service with the company shall be kept or
deposited by the company within fifteen days from the date of deposit-
(a) in a post office savings bank account, or
(b) in a special account to be opened by the company for the purpose in the
State Bank of India or in a Scheduled Bank, or
(c) where the company itself is a Scheduled Bank, in a special account to be
opened by the company for the purpose either in itself or in the State Bank of
India or in any other Scheduled Bank.]
(2) No portion of such moneys or securities shall be utilised by the company
except for the purposes agreed to in the contracts of service.
(3) A receipt for moneys deposited with a company by its em- ployee shall not
be deemed to be a security within the meaning of this section; and the moneys
themselves shall accordingly be depo- sited 2 as provided in sub- section (1).
418. Provisions applicable to provident funds of employees. 3
(1) Where a provident fund has been constituted by a company for its employees
or any class of its employees, all moneys contributed to such fund (whether by
the company or by the employees) or received or accruing by way of interest or
otherwise
1\. Subs. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 158, for sub- section (1).
2\. The words" with a Scheduled Bank" omitted by s. 158, ibid.
3\. Subs. by s. 159, ibid., for sub- section (1).
to such fund shall, within fifteen days from the date of contribution, receipt
or accrual, as the case may be, either-
(a) be deposited-
(i) in a post office savings bank account, or
(ii) in a special account to be opened by the company for the purpose in the
State Bank of India or in a Scheduled Bank, or
(iii) where the company itself is a Scheduled Bank, in a special account to be
opened by the company for the purpose either in itself or in the State Bank of
India or in any other Scheduled Bank; or
(b) be invested in the securities mentioned or referred to in clauses (a) to
(e) of section 20 of the Indian Trusts Act, 1882 (2 of 1882 ).]
(2) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the rules of any provident
fund to which sub- section (1) applies or in any contract between a company
and its employees, no employee shall be entitled to receive, in respect of
such portion of the amount to his credit in such fund as is invested in
accordance with the provisions of sub- section (1), interest at a rate
exceeding the rate of interest yielded by such investment.
(3) Nothing in sub- section (1) shall affect any rights of an em- ployee under
the rules of a provident fund to obtain advances from or to withdraw money
standing to his credit in the fund, where the fund is a recognised provident
fund within the meaning of clause (a) of section 58A of the Indian Income- tax
Act, 1922 (11 of 1922 ) 3, or where the rules of the fund contain provisions
corresponding to rules 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, and 9 of the Indian Income- tax
(Provident Funds Relief) Rules.
(4) Where a 1 trust has been created by a company with respect to any
provident fund referred to in sub- section (1), the company shall be bound to
collect the contributions of the employees concerned and pay such
contributions as well as its own contributions, if any, to the trustees 2
within fifteen days from the date of collection]; but in other respects, the
obligations laid on the company by this section shall devolve on the trustees
and shall be discharged by them instead of by the company.
1\. The word" separate" omitted by Act 65 of 1960, s. 159.
2\. Ins. by s. 159, ibid.
3\. See now the income- tax Act, 1961 (43 of 1961 ).
419. Right of employee to see bank' s receipt for moneys or securities referred to in section 417 or 418. An employee shall be entitled, on request made in this behalf to the company, or to the trustees referred to in sub- section (4) of section 418, as the case may be, to see the bank' s receipt for any money or security such as is referred to in sections 417 and 418.
420. Penalty for contravention of sections 417, 418 and 419. Any officer of a company, or any such trustee of a provident fund as is referred to in sub- section (4) of section 418 who, knowingly, contravenes, or authorises or permits the contravention of, the provi- sions of section 417, 418 or 419, shall be punishable with 1 imprison- ment for a term which may extend to six months, or with fine which may extend to one thousand rupees]. Receivers and Managers
421. Filing of accounts of receivers. Every receiver of the property of a company who has been appointed under a power conferred by any instrument and who has taken possession, shall once in every half year while he remains in possession, and also on ceasing to act as receiver, file with the Registrar an abstract in the prescribed form of his receipts and payments during the period to which the abstract relates.
422. Invoices, etc., to refer to receiver where there is one. Where a receiver, of the property of a company has been appointed, every invoice, order for goods, or business letter issued by or on behalf of the company, or the receiver of the company, being a document on or in which the name of the company appears, shall contain a statement that a receiver has been appointed.
423. Penalty for non- compliance with sections 421 and 422. If default is made in complying with the requirements of section 421 or 422, the company, and every officer of the company who is in default, shall be punishable with fine which may extend to two hundred rupees. For the purposes of this section, the receiver shall be deemed to be an officer of the company.
424. Application of sections 421 to 423 to receivers and managers appointed by Court and managers appointed in pursuance of an instrument. The provisions of sections 421, 422 and 423 shall apply to the receiver of, or any person appointed to manage, the property of a company, appointed by a Court or to any person appointed to manage the property of a company under any powers contained in an instrument, in like manner as they apply to a receiver appointed under any powers contained in an instrument.
1\. Subs. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 160, for" fine which may extend to five
hundred rupees".
PART VII WINDING UP CHAP PRELIMINARY CHAPTER I.- PRELIMINARY Modes of Winding
Up
425. Modes of winding up.
(1) The winding up of a company may be either-
(a) by the Court; or (b) voluntary; or (c) subject to the supervision of the
Court.
(2) The provisions of this Act with respect to winding up apply, unless the
contrary appears, to the winding up of a company in any of those modes.
Contributories
426. Liability as contributories of present and past members.
(1) In the event of a company being wound up, every present and past member
shall be liable to contribute to the assets of the company to an amount
sufficient for payment of its debts and liabilities and the costs, charges and
expenses of the winding up, and for the adjustment of the rights of the
contributories among themselves, subject to the provisions of section 427 and
subject also to the following qualifications, namely:-
(a) a past member shall not be liable to contribute if he has ceased to be a
member for one year or upwards before the commencement of the winding up;
(b) a past member shall not be liable to contribute in respect of any debt or
liability of the company contracted after he ceased to be a member;
(c) no past member shall be liable to contribute unless it appears to the
Court that the present members are unable to satisfy the contributions
required to be made by them in pursuance of this Act;
(d) in the case of a company limited by shares, no contribution shall be
required from any past or present member exceeding the amount, if any, unpaid
on the shares in respect of which he is liable as such member;
(e) in the case of a company limited by guarantee, no contribution shall,
subject to the provisions of sub- section (2), be required from any past or
present member exceeding
the amount undertaken to be contributed by him to the assets of the company in
the event of its being wound up;
(f) nothing in this Act shall invalidate any provision contained in any policy
of insurance or other contract whereby the liability of individual members on
the policy or contract is restricted, or whereby the funds of the company are
alone made liable in respect of the policy or contract;
(g) a sum due to any past or present member of the company in his character as
such, by way of dividends, profits or otherwise, shall not be deemed to be a
debt of the company payable to that member, in a case of competition between
himself and 1 any creditor claiming otherwise than in the character of a past
or present member of the company]; but any such sum shall be taken into
account for the purpose of the final adjustment of the rights of the
contributories among themselves.
(2) In the winding up of a company limited by guarantee which has a share
capital, every member of the company shall be liable, in addition to the
amount undertaken to be contributed by him to the assets of the company in the
event of its being wound up, to contri- bute to the extent of any sums unpaid
on any shares held by him as if the company were a company limited by shares.
427. Obligations of directors, managing agents and managers whose liability is unlimited. In the winding up of a limited company, any director, managing agent, secretaries and treasurers or manager, whether past or present, whose liability is, under the provisions of this Act, unlimited, shall, in addition to his liability, if any, to contribute as an ordinary member, be liable to make a further contribution as if he were, at the commencement of the winding up, a member of an unlimited company: Provided that-
(a) a past director, managing agent, secretaries and treasurers or manager
shall not be liable to make such further contribution, if he has ceased to
hold office for a year or upwards before the commencement of the winding up;
(b) a past director, managing agent, secretaries and treasurers or manager
shall not be liable to make such further contribution in respect of any debt
or liability of the company contracted after he ceased to hold office;
1\. Subs. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 161, for certain words.
(c) subject to the articles of the company, a director, managing agent,
secretaries and treasurers or manager shall not be liable to make such further
contribution, unless the Court deems it necessary to require the contribution
in order to satisfy the debts and liabilities of the company, and the costs,
charges and expenses of the winding up.
428. Definition of" contributory". The term" contributory" means every person liable to contribute to the assets of a company in the event of its being wound up, and includes the holder of any shares which are fully paid up; and for the purposes of all proceedings for determining, and all proceedings prior to the final determination of, the persons who are to be deemed contributories, includes any person alleged to be a contributory.
429. Nature of liability of contributory.
(1) The liability of a contributory shall create a debt accruing due from him
at the time when his liability commenced, but payable at the times specified
in calls made on him for enforcing the liability.
(2) No claim founded on the liability of a contributory shall be cognizable by
any Court of Small Causes sitting outside the presi- dency- towns.
430. Contributories in case of death of member.
(1) If a contributory dies either before or after he has been placed on the
list of contributories, his legal representatives shall be liable in a due
course of administration, to contribute to the assets of the company in
discharge of his liability, and shall be contributories accordingly.
(2) If the legal representatives make default in paying any money ordered to
be paid by them, proceedings may be taken for administering the estate of the
deceased contributory and compelling payment thereout of the money due.
(3) For the purposes of this section, where the deceased contributory was a
member of a Hindu joint family governed by the Mitakshara School of Hindu Law,
his legal representatives shall be deemed to include the surviving
coparceners.
431. Contributories in case of insolvency of member. If a contributory is adjudged insolvent, either before or after he has been placed on the list of contributories,-
(a) his assignees in insolvency shall represent him for all the purposes of
the winding up, and shall be contributories accordingly, and may be called on
to admit to proof against the estate of the insolvent, or otherwise to allow
to be paid out of his assets in due course of law, any money due from the
insolvent in respect of his liability to contribute to the assets of the
company; and
(b) there may be proved against the estate of the insolvent the estimated
value of his liability to future calls as well as calls already made.
432. Contibutories in case of winding up of a body corporate which is a member. If a body corporate which is a contributory is ordered to be wound up, either before or after it has been placed on the list of contributor,--
(a) the liquidator of the body corporate shall represent it for all the
purposes of the winding up of the company and shall be a contributory
accordingly, and may be called on to admit to proof against the assets of the
body corporate, or otherwise to allow to be paid out of its assets in due
course of law, any money due from the body corporate in respect of its
liability to contribute to the assets of the company; and
(b) there may be proved against the assets of the body corporate the estimated
value of its liability to future calls as well as calls already made. CHAP
WINDING UP BY THE COURT CHAPTER II- WINDING UP BY THE COURT Cases in which
company may be wound up by the Court
433. Circumstances in which company may be wound up by Court. A company may be wound up by the Court,-
(a) if the company has, by special resolution, resolved that the company be
wound up by the Court;
(b) if default is made in delivering the statutory report to the Registrar or
in holding the statutory meeting;
(c) if the company does not commence its business within a year from its
incorporation, or suspends its business for a whole year;
(d) if the number of members is reduced, in the case of a public company,
below seven, and in the case of a private company, below two;
(e) if the company is unable to pay its debts;
(f) if the Court is of opinion that it is just and equitable that the company
should be wound up.
434. Company when deemed unable to pay its debts.
(1) A company shall be deemed to be unable to pay its debts-
(a) if a creditor, by assignment or otherwise, to whom the company is indebted
in a sum exceeding five hundred rupees then due, has served on the company, by
causing it to be delivered at its registered office, by registered post or
otherwise, a demand under his hand requiring the company to pay the sum so due
and the company has for three weeks thereafter neglected to pay the sum, or to
secure or compound for it to the reasonable satisfaction of the creditor;
(b) if execution or other process issued on a decree or order of any Court in
favour of a creditor of the company is returned unsatisfied in whole or in
part; or
(c) if it is proved to the satisfaction of the Court that the company is
unable to pay its debts, and, in determining whether a company is unable to
pay its debts, the Court shall take into account the contingent and
prospective liabilities of the company.
(2) The demand referred to in clause (a) of sub- section (1) shall be deemed
to have been duly given under the hand of the creditor if it is signed by any
agent or legal adviser duly authorised on his behalf, or in the case of a
firm, if it is signed by any such agent or legal adviser or by any member of
the firm. Transfer of Proceedings
435. Transfer of winding up proceedings to District Court. Where a High Court Makes an order for winding up a company under this Act, the High Court may, if it thinks fit, direct all subsequent proceedings to be had in a District Court subordinate thereto or, with the consent of any other High Court, in such High Court or in a District Court subordinate thereto; and thereupon for the purposes of winding up the company, the Court in respect of which such direction is given shall be deemed to be" the Court" within the meaning of this Act, and shall have all the jurisdiction and powers of a High Court under this Act.
436. Withdrawal and transfer of winding up from one District Court to another. If during the progress of a winding up in a District Court, it appears to the High Court that the same could be more conveniently proceeded with in the High Court or in any other District Court, the High Court may, as the case may require,-
(a) withdraw the case and proceed with the winding up itself; or
(b) transfer the case to such other District Court, whereupon the winding up
shall proceed in that District Court.
437. Power of High Court to retain winding up proceedings in District Court. The High Court may direct that a District Court in which proceedings for winding up a company have been commenced, shall retain and continue the proceedings, although it may not be the Court in which they ought to have been commenced.
438. Jurisdiction of High Court under sections 435, 436 and 437 to be exercised at any time and at any stage. The High Court shall have jurisdiction to pass orders under section 435, 436 or 437 at any time and at any stage and either on the application of, or without application from, any of the parties to the proceedings. Petition for Winding Up
439. Provisions as to applications for winding up.
(1) An application to the Court for the winding up of a company shall be by
petition presented, subject to the provisions of this section,-
(a) by the company; or
(b) by any creditor or creditors, including any contingent or prospective
creditor or creditors; or
(c) by any contributory or contributories; or
(d) by all or any of the parties specified in clauses (a), (b) and (c),
whether together or separately; or
(e) by the Registrar; or
(f) in a case falling under section 243, by any person authoised by the
Central Government in that behalf.
(2) A secured creditor, the holder of any debentures (including debenture
stock), whether or not any trustee or trustees have been appointed in respect
of such and other like debentures, and the trustee for the holders of
debentures, shall be deemed to be creditors within the meaning of clause (b)
of sub- section (1).
(3) A contributory shall be entitled to present a petition for winding up a
company, notwithstanding that he may be the holder of fully paid- up shares,
or that the company may have no assets at all, or may have, no surplus assets
left for distribution among the share- holders after the satisfaction of its
liabilities.
(4) A contributory shall not be entitled to present a petition for winding up
a company unless-
(a) either the number of members is reduced, in the case of a public company,
below seven, and, in the case of a private company, below two; or
(b) the shares in respect of which he is a contributory, or some of them,
either were originally allotted to him or have been held by him, and
registered in his name, for at least six months during the eighteen months
immediately before the commencement of the winding up, or have devolved on him
through the death of a former holder.
(5) Except in the case where he is authorised in pursuance of clause (f) of
sub- section (1), the Registrar shall be entitled to pre- sent a petition for
winding up a company only on the grounds specified in 1 clauses (b), (c), (d),
(e) and (f)] of section 433: Provided that the Registrar shall not present a
petition on the ground specified in clause (e) aforesaid, unless it appears to
him either from the financial condition of the company as disclosed in its
balance- sheet or from the report of 2 a special auditor appointed under
section 233A or an inspector] appointed under section 235 or 237, that the
company is unable to pay its debts: Provided further that the Registrar shall
obtain the previous sanction of the Central Government to the presentation of
the petition on any of the grounds aforesaid.
(6) The Central Government shall not accord its sanction in pur- suance of the
foregoing proviso, unless the company has first been afforded an opportunity
of making its representations, if any.
(7) A petition for winding up a company on the ground specified in clause (b)
of section 433 shall not be presented-
(a) except by the Registrar or by a contributory; or
(b) before the expiration of fourteen days after the last day on which the
statutory meeting referred to in clause (b) aforesaid ought to have been held.
(8) Before a petition for winding up a company presented by a contingent or
prospective creditor is admitted, the leave of the Court
1\. Subs. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 162, for" clauses (b), (c) and (e)".
2\. Subs. by s. 162, ibid., for" an inspector".
shall be obtained for the admission of the petition and such leave shall not
be granted-
(a) unless, in the opinion of the Court there is a prima facie case for
winding up the company; and
(b) until such security for costs has been given as the Court thinks
reasonable.
440. Right to present winding up petition where company is being wound up voluntarily or subject to Court' s supervision.
(1) Where a company being wound up voluntarily or subject to the supervision
of the Court, a petition for its winding up by the Court may be presented by-
(a) any person authorised to do so under section 439, and subject to the
provisions of that section; or
(b) the Official Liquidator.
(2) The Court shall not make a winding up order on a petition presented to it
under sub- section (1), unless it is satisfied that the voluntary winding up
or winding up subject to the supervision of the Court cannot be continued with
due regard to the interests of the creditors or contributories or both.
Commencement of Winding Up
441. Commencement of winding up by Court.
(1) Where, before the presentation of a petition for the winding up of a
company by the Court, a resolution has been passed by the company for
voluntary winding up, the winding up of the company shall be deemed to have
commenced at the time of the passing of the resolution, and unless the Court,
on proof of fraud or mistake, thinks fit to direct otherwise, all proceedings
taken in the voluntary winding up shall be deemed to have been validly taken.
(2) In any other case, the winding up of a company by the Court shall be
deemed to commence at the time of the presentation of the petition for the
winding up. Powers of Court
442. Power of Court to stay or restrain proceedings against Company. At any time after the presentation of a winding up petition and before a winding up order has been made, the company, or any creditor or contributory, may-
(a) where any suit or proceeding against the company is pending in the Supreme
Court or in any High Court, apply to the Court in which the suit or proceeding
is pending for a stay of proceedings therein; and
(b) where any suit or proceeding is pending against the company in any other
Court, apply to the Court having jurisdiction to wind up the company, to
restrain further proceedings in the suit or proceeding; and the Court to which
application is so made may stay or restrain the proceedings accordingly, on
such terms as it thinks fit.
443. Powers of Court on hearing petition.
(1) On hearing a winding up petition, the Court may-
(a) dismiss it, with or without costs; or
(b) adjourn the hearing conditionally or unconditionally; or
(c) make any interim order that it thinks fit; or
(d) make an order for winding up the company with or without costs, or any
other order that it thinks fit: Provided that the Court shall not refuse to
make a winding up order on the ground only that the assets of the company have
been mortgaged to an amount equal to or in excess of those assets, or that the
company has no assets.
(2) Where the petition is presented on the ground that it is just and
equitable that the company should be wound up, the Court may refuse to make an
order of winding up, if it is of opinion that some other remedy is available
to the petitioners and that they are acting unreasonably in seeking to have
the company wound up instead of pursuing that other remedy.
(3) Where the petition is presented on the ground of default in delivering the
statutory report to the Registrar, or in holding the statutory meeting, the
Court may-
(a) instead of making a winding up order, direct that the statutory report
shall be delivered or that a meeting shall be held; and
(b) order the costs to be paid by any persons who, in the opinion of the
Court, are responsible for the default. Consequences of Winding up Order
444. Order for winding up to be communicated to Official Liquidator and Registrar. Where the Court makes an order for the winding up of a company, the Court shall forthwith cause intimation thereof to be sent to the 1 Official Liquidator and the Registrar].
1\. Subs. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 163, for" Official Liquidator".
445. Copy of winding up order to be filed with Registrar.
(1) On the making of a winding up order, it shall be the duty of the
petitioner in the winding up proceedings and of the company to file with the
Registrar a certified copy of the order, within 1 thirty days] from the date
of the making of the order. If default is made in complying with the foregoing
provision, the petitioner, or as the case may require, the company, and every
officer of the company who is in default, shall be punishable with fine which
may extend to one hundred rupees for each day during which the default
continues.
(1A) 2 In computing the period of 1 thirty days] from the date of the making
of a winding up order under sub- section (1), the time requisite for obtaining
a certified copy of the order shall be excluded.]
(2) On the filing of a certified copy of the winding up order, the Registrar
shall make a minute thereof in his books relating to the company, and shall
notify in the Official Gazette that such an order has been made.
(3) Such order shall be deemed to be notice of discharge to the officers and
employees of the company, except when the business of the company is
continued.
446. Suits stayed on winding up order.
(1) When a winding up order has been made or the Official Liquidator has been
appointed as provisional liquidator, no suit or other legal proceeding shall
be commenced. or if pending at the date of the winding up order, shall be
proceeded with, against the company, except by leave of the Court and subject
to such terms as the Court may impose.
(2) 3 The Court which is winding up the company shall, notwith- standing
anything contained in any other law for the time being, in force, have
jurisdiction to entertain, or dispose of-
(a) any suit or proceeding by or against the company;
(b) any claim made by or against the company (including claims by or against
any of its branches in India);
(c) any application made under section 391 by or in respect of the company;
(d) any question of priorities or any other question whatsoever, whether of
law or fact, which may relate to or arise in course of the winding up of the
company;
1\. Subs. by Act 31 of 1965, s. 62 and Sch., for" one month" (w. e. f. 15- 10-
1965 ).
2\. Ins. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 164.
3\. Subs. by s. 165, ibid., for sub- section (2).
whether such suit or proceeding has been instituted or is instituted, or such
claim or question has arisen or arises or such application has been made or is
made before or after the order for the winding up of the company, or before or
after the commencement of the Companies (Amendment) Act, 1960 .] (65 of 1960
.)
(3) Any suit or proceeding by or against the company which is pending in any
Court other than that in which the winding up of the company is proceeding
may, notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in
force, be transferred to and disposed of by that Court.
(4) 1 Nothing in sub- section (1) or sub- section (3) shall apply to any
proceeding pending in appeal before the Supreme Court or a High Court.]
447. Effect of winding up order. An order for winding up a company shall operate in favour of all the creditors and of all the contributories of the company as if it had been made on the joint petition of a creditor and of a contributory. Official Liquidators
448. Appointment of Official Liquidator.
(1) For the purposes of this Act, so far as it relates to the winding up of
companies by the Court,-
(a) there shall be attached to each High Court, an Official Liquidator
appointed by the Central Government, who shall be a whole- time officer,
unless the Central Government considers that there will not be sufficient work
for a whole- time officer in which case a part- time officer may be appointed;
and
(b) the Official Receiver attached to a District Court for insolvency
purposes, or if there is no such Official Receiver, then, such person as the
Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette appoint for
the pur- pose, shall be the Official Liquidator attached to the District
Court.
(1A) 2 The Central Government may appoint one or more Deputy or Assistant
Official Liquidators to assist the Official Liquidator in the discharge of his
functions.]
(2) All references to the" Official Liquidator" in this Act shall be construed
as references to the Official Liquidator referred to in
1\. Ins. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 165.
2\. Ins. by s. 166, ibid.
clause (a) or clause (b), as the case may be, of sub- section (1) 1 and as
including references to Deputy or Assistant Official Liquidators appointed
under sub- section (1A)].
449. Official Liquidator to be liquidator. On a winding up order being made in respect of a company, the Official Liquidator shall, by virtue of his office, become the liquidator of the company.
450. Appointment and powers of provisional liquidator.
(1) At any time after the presentation of a winding up petition and before the
making of a winding up order, the Court may appoint the Official Liquidator to
be liquidator provisionally.
(2) Before appointing a provisional liquidator, the Court shall give notice to
the company and give a reasonable opportunity to it to make its
representations, if any, unless, for special reasons to be recorded in
writing, the Court thinks fit to dispense with such notice.
(3) Where a provisional liquidator is appointed by the Court, the Court may
limit and restrict his powers by the order appointing him or by a subsequent
order; but otherwise he shall have the same powers as a liquidator.
(4) The Official Liquidator shall cease to hold office as provisional
liquidator, and shall become the liquidator, of the company, on a winding up
order being made.
451. General provisions as to liquidators.
(1) The liquidator shall conduct the proceedings in winding up the company and
perform such duties in reference thereto as the Court may impose.
(2) Where the Official liquidator becomes or acts as liquidator, there shall
be paid to the Central Government out of the assets of the company such fees
as may be prescribed.
(3) The acts of a liquidator shall be valid, notwithstanding any defect that
may afterwards be discovered in his appointment or qualification; Provided
that nothing in his sub- section shall be deemed to give validity to acts done
by a liquidator after his appointment has been shown to be invalid.
452. Style, etc., of liquidator. A liquidator shall be described by the style of" The Official Liquidator" of the particular company in respect of which he acts, and not by his individual name.
1\. Ins. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 166.
453. Receiver not to be appointed of assets with liquidator. A receiver shall not be appointed of assets in the hands of a liquidator except by, or with the leave of, the Court.
454. Statement of affairs to be made to Official Liquidator.
(1) Where the Court has made a winding up order or appointed the Official
Liquidator as provisional liquidator, unless the Court in its discretion
otherwise orders, there shall be made out and submitted to the Official
Liquidator a statement as to the affairs of the company in the prescribed
form, verified by an affidavit, and containing the following particulars,
namely:-
(a) the assets of the company, stating separately the cash balance in hand and
at the bank, if any, and the negotiable securities, if any, held by the
company;
(b) its debts and liabilities;
(c) the names, residences and occupations of its creditors, stating separately
the amount of secured and unsecured debts; and in the case of secured debts,
particulars of the securities given, whether by the company or an officer
thereof, their value and the dates on which they were given;
(d) the debts due to the company and the names, residences and occupations of
the persons from whom they are due and the amount likely to be realised on
account thereof;
(e) such further or other information as may be prescribed, or as the Official
Liquidator may require.
(2) The statement shall be submitted and verified by one or more of the
persons who are at the relevant date the directors and by the person who is at
that date the manager, secretary or other chief officer of the company, or by
such of the persons hereinafter in this sub- section mentioned, as the
Official Liquidator, subject to the direction of the Court, may require to
submit and verify the statement, that is to say, persons-
(a) who are or have been officers of the company;
(b) who have taken part in the formation of the company at any time within one
year before the relevant date;
(c) who are in the employment of the company, or have been in the employment
of the company within the said year, and are, in the opinion of the Official
Liquidator, capable of giving the information required;
(d) who are or have been within the said year officers of, or in the
employment of, a company which is, or within the said year was, an officer of
the company to which the statement relates.
(3) The statement shall be submitted within twenty- one days from the relevant
date, or within such extended time not exceeding three months from that date
as the Official Liquidator or the Court may, for special reasons, appoint.
(4) Any person making, or concurring in making, the statement and affidavit
required by this section shall be allowed, and shall be paid by the Official
liquidator or provisional liquidator, as the case may be, out of the assets of
the company, such costs and expenses incurred in and about the preparation and
making of the statement and affidavit as the Official Liquidator may consider
reasonable, subject to an appeal to the Court.
(5) 1 If any person, without reasonable excuse, makes default in complying
with any of the requirements of this section, he shall be punishable with
imprisonment for a term which may extend to two years, or with fine which may
extend to one hundred rupees for every day during which the default continues,
or with both.
(5A) The Court by which the winding up order is made or the provisional
liquidator is appointed, may take cognizance of an offence under sub- section
(5) upon receiving a complaint of facts constituting such an offence and
trying the offence itself in accordance with the procedure laid down in the
Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898 , (5 of 1898 .) 2 for the trial of summons
cases by magistrates.]]
(6) Any person stating, himself in writing to be a creditor or contributory of
the company shall be entitled, by himself or by his agent, at all reasonable
times, on payment of the prescribed fee, to inspect the statement submitted in
pursuance of this section, and to a copy thereof or extract therefrom.
(7) Any person untruthfully so stating himself to be a creditor or
contributory shall be guilty of an offence under section 182 of the Indian
Penal Code; (45 of 1860 .) and shall, on the application of the Official
Liquidator, be punishable accordingly.
(8) In this section, the expression" the relevant date" means, in a case where
a provisional liquidator is appointed, the date of his appointment, and in a
case where no such appointment is made, the date of the winding up order.
1\. Subs. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 167, for sub- section (5).
2\. See now the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974 ).
455. Report by Official Liquidator.
(1) In a case where a winding up order is made, the Official Liquidator shall,
as soon as practicable after receipt of the statement to be submitted under
section 454 and not later than six months from the date of the order, 1 or
such extended period as may be allowed by the Court] or in a case where the
Court orders that no statement need be submitted, as soon as practicable after
the date of the order, submit a preliminary report to the Court---
(a) as to the amount of capital issued, subscribed, and paid up, and the
estimated amount of assets and liabilities, giving separately, under the
heading of assets, particulars of (i) cash and negotiable securities; (ii)
debts due from contributories; (iii) debts due to the company and securities,
if any, available in respect thereof; (iv) movable and immovable properties
belonging to the company; and (v) unpaid calls;
(b) if the company has failed, as to the causes of the failure; and
(c) whether, in his opinion, further inquiry is desirable as to any matter
relating to the promotion, formation, or failure of the company, or the
conduct of the business thereof.
(2) The Official Liquidator may also, if he thinks fit, make a further report,
or further reports, stating the manner in which the company was promoted or
formed and whether in his opinion any fraud has been committed by any person
in its promotion or formation, or by any officer of the company in relation to
the company since the formation thereof, and any other matters which, in his
opinion, it is desirable to bring to the notice of the Court.
(3) If the Official Liquidator states in any such further report that in his
opinion a fraud has been committed as aforesaid, the Court shall have the
further powers provided in section 478.
456. Custody of company' s property.
(1) Where a winding up order has been made or where a provisional liquidator
has been appointed, the liquidator 2 or the provisional liquidator, as the
case may be,] shall take into his custody or under his control, all the
property, effects and actionable claims to which the company is or appears to
be entitled.
(1A) 2 For the purpose of enabling the liquidator or the provisional
liquidator, as the case may be, to take into his custody or
1\. Ins. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 168.
2\. Ins. by s. 169, ibid.
under his control, any property, effects or actionable claims to which the
company is or appears to be entitled, the liquidator or the provisional
liquidator, as the case may be, may by writing request the Chief Presidency
Magistrate or the District Magistrate within whose jurisdiction such property,
effects or actionable claims or any books of account or other documents of the
company may be found, to take possession thereof, and the Chief Presidency
Magistrate or the District Magistrate may thereupon, after such notice as he
may think fit to give to any party, take possession of such property, effects,
actionable claims, books of account or other documents and deliver possession
thereof to the liquidator or the provisional liquidator.
(1B) For the purpose of securing compliance with the provisions of sub-
section (1A), the Chief Presidency Magistrate or the District Magistrate may
take or cause to be taken such steps and use or cause to be used such force as
may in his opinion be necessary.]
(2) All the property and effects of the company shall be deemed to be in the
custody of the court as from the date of the order for the winding up of the
company.
457. Powers of liquidator.
(1) The liquidator in a winding up by the Court shall have power, with the
sanction of the Court,-
(a) to institute or defend any suit, prosecution, or other legal proceeding,
civil or criminal, in the name and on behalf of the company;
(b) to carry on the business of the company so far as may be necessary for the
beneficial winding up of the company;
(c) to sell the immovable and movable property and actionable claims of the
company by public auction or private contract, with power to transfer the
whole thereof to any person or body corporate, or to sell the same in parcels;
(d) to raise on the security of the assets of the company any money requisite;
(e) to do all such other things as may be necessary for winding up the affairs
of the company and distributing its assets.
(2) The liquidator in a winding up by the Court shall have power-
(i) to do all acts and to execute, in the name and on behalf of the company,
all deeds, receipts, and other documents,
and for that purpose to use, when necessary, the company' s seal;
(ia) 1 to inspect the records and returns of the company on the files of the
Registrar without payment of any fee;]
(ii) to prove, rank and claim in the insolvency of any contributory, for any
balance against his estate, and to receive dividends in the Insolvency, in
respect of that balance, as a separate debt due from the insolvent, and
rateably with the other separate creditors;
(iii) to draw, accept, make and endorse any bill of exchange, hundi or
promissory note in the name and on behalf of the company, with the same effect
with respect to the liability of the company as if the bill, hundi, or note
had been drawn, accepted, made or indorsed by or on behalf of the company in
the course of its business;
(iv) to take out, in his official name, letters of administration to any
deceased contributory, and to do in his official name any other act necessary
for obtaining payment of any money due from a contributory or his estate which
cannot be conveniently done in the name of the company, and in all such cases,
the money due shall, for the purpose of enabling the liquidator to take out
the letters of ad- ministration or recover the money, be deemed to be due to
the liquidator himself: Provided that nothing herein empowered shall be deemed
to affect the rights, duties and privileges of any Administrator- General;
(v) to appoint an agent to do any business which the liquidator is unable to
do himself.
(3) The exercise by the liquidator in a winding up by the Court of the powers
conferred by this section shall be subject to the control of the Court; and
any creditor or contributory may apply to the Court with respect to the
exercise or proposed exercise of any of the powers conferred by this section.
458. Discretion of liquidator. The Court may, by order, provide that the liquidator may exercise any of the powers referred to in sub- section
(1) of section 457 without the sanction or intervention of the Court: Provided
always that the exercise by the liquidator of such powers shall be subject to
the control of the Court.
1\. Ins. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 170.
Exclusion of certain time in computing periods of limitation.
458A. 1 Exclusion of certain time in computing periods of limitation.
Notwithstanding anything in the Indian Limitation Act, 1908 (9 of 1908 .) or
in any other law for the time being in force, in computing the period of
limitation prescribed for any suit or application in the name and on behalf of
a company which is being wound up by the Court, the period from the date of
commencement of the winding up of the company to the date on which the winding
up order is made (both inclusive) and a period of one year immediately
following the date of the winding up order shall be excluded.]
459. Provision for legal assistance to liquidator. The liquidator may, with the sanction of the Court, appoint an advocate, attorney or pleader entitled to appear before the Court to assist him in the performance of his duties.
460. Exercise and control of liquidator' s powers.
(1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, the liquidator shall, in the
administration of the assets of the company and the distribution thereof among
its creditors, have regard to any directions which may be given by resolution
of the creditors or contributories at any general meeting or by the committee
of inspection.
(2) Any directions given by the creditors or contributories at any general
meeting shall, in case of conflict, be deemed to override any directions given
by the committee of inspection.
(3) The liquidator-
(a) may summon general meetings of the creditors or contributories, whenever
he thinks fit, for the purpose of ascertaining their wishes;
(b) shall summon such meetings at such times, as the creditors or
contributories, as the case may be, may, by resolution, direct, or whenever
requested in writing to do so by not less than one- tenth in value of the
creditors or contributories, as the case may be.
(4) The liquidator may apply to the Court in the manner pres- cribed, if any,
for directions in relation to any particular matter arising in the winding up.
(5) Subject to the provisions of this Act, the liquidator shall use his own
discretion in the administration of the assets of the company and in the
distribution thereof among the creditors.
(6) Any person aggrieved by any act or decision of the liquidator may apply to
the Court; and the Court may confirm, reverse or modify the act or decision
complained of, and make such further order as it thinks just in the
circumstances.
1\. Ins. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 171.
461. Books to be kept by liquidator.
(1) The liquidator shall keep, in the manner prescribed, proper books in which
he shall cause entries or minutes to be made of proceedings at meetings and of
such other matters as may be prescribed.
(2) Any creditor or contributory may, subject to the control of the Court,
inspect any such books, personally or by his agent.
462. Audit of liquidator' s accounts.
(1) The liquidator shall, at such times as may be prescribed but not less than
twice in each year during his tenure of office, present to the Court an
account of his receipts and payments as liquidator.
(2) The account shall be in the prescribed form, shall be made in duplicate,
and shall be verified by a declaration in the prescribed form.
(3) The Court shall cause the account to be audited in such manner as it
thinks fit; and for the purpose of the audit, the liquidator shall furnish the
Court with such vouchers and information as the Court may require, and the
Court may, at any time, require the production of, and inspect, any books or
accounts kept by the liquidator.
(4) When the account has been audited, one copy thereof shall be filed and
kept by the Court, and the other copy shall be delivered to the Registrar for
filing; and each copy shall be open to the inspection of any creditor,
contributory or person interested.
(4A) 2 Where an account referred to in sub- section (4) relates to a
Government company in liquidation, the liquidator shall forward a copy
thereof,-
(a) to the Central Government, if that Government is a member of the
Government company; or
(b) to any State Government, if that Government is a member of the Government
company; or
(c) to the Central Government and any State Government, if both the
Governments are members of the Government company.
(5) The liquidator shall cause the account when audited or a summary thereof
to be printed, and shall send a printed copy of the account or summary by post
to every creditor and to every contributory: Provided that the Court may in
any case dispense with compliance with this sub- section.
463. Control of Central Government over liquidators.
(1) The Central Government shall take cognisance of the conduct of liquidators
of companies which are being wound up by the Court, and, if a liquidator does
not faithfully perform his duties and duly observe all the requirements
imposed on him by this Act 1 or by the Indian Companies Act, 1913 ], (7 of
1913 .) the rules thereunder, or otherwise, with respect to the performance of
his duties, or if any complaint is made to the Central Government by any
creditor or contributory in regard thereto, the Central Government shall
inquire into the matter, and take such action thereon as it may think
expedient:
1\. Ins. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 172.
2\. Ins. by Act 31 of 1988, s. 55 (w. e. f. 15- 6- 1988 ).
1 Provided that where the winding up of a company has commenced before the
commencement of this Act, the Court may, on the application of the Central
Government, appoint in place of such liquidator the Official Liquidator as the
liquidator in such winding up.]
(2) The Central Government may at any time require any liquidator of a company
which is being wound up by the Court to answer any inquiry in relation to any
winding up in which he is engaged, and may, if the Central Government thinks
fit, apply to the Court to examine him or any other person on oath concerning
the winding up.
(3) The Central Government may also direct a local investigation to be made of
the books and vouchers of the liquidators. Committee of inspection
464. Appointment and Composition of committee of inspection.
(1) 2 (a) The Court may, at the time of making an order for the winding up of
a company or at any time thereafter, direct that there shall be appointed a
committee of inspection to act with the liquidator.
(b) Where a direction is given by the Court as aforesaid, the liquidator
shall, within two months from the date of such direction, convene a meeting of
the creditors of the company (as ascertained from its books and documents) for
the purpose of determining who are to be members of the committee.]
(2) 3 The liquidator shall, within fourteen days from the date of the
creditors' meeting or such further time as the Court in its discretion may
grant for the purpose, convene a meeting of the contributories to consider the
decision of the creditors' meeting with respect to the membership of the
committee; and it shall be open to the meeting of the contributories to accept
the decision of the creditors' meeting with or without modifications or to
reject it.]
(3) Except in the case where the meeting of the contributories' accepts the
decision of the creditors' meeting in its entirety, it shall be the duty of
the liquidator to apply to the Court for directions as to 4 what the
composition of the committee shall be, and who shall be members thereof.
1\. Ins. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 172.
2\. Subs. by s. 173, ibid., for sub- section (1).
3\. Subs. by s. 173, ibid., for sub- section (2).
4\. The words" whether there shall be a committee of inspection; and, if so,"
omitted by s. 173, ibid.
465. Constitution and proceedings of committee of inspection.
(1) A committee of inspection appointed in pursuance of section 464 shall
consist of not more than twelve members, being creditors and contributories of
the company or persons holding general or special powers of attorney from
creditors or contributories, in such proportions as may be agreed on by the
meetings of creditors and con- tributories, or in case of difference of
opinion between the meetings, as may be determined by the Court.
(2) The committee of inspection shall have the right to inspect the accounts
of the liquidator at all reasonable times.
(3) The committee shall meet at such times as it may from time to time
appoint, 1 and the liquidator or any member of the committee may also call a
meeting of the committee as and when he thinks necessary.
(4) The quorum for a meeting of the committee shall be one- third of the total
number of the members, or two, whichever is higher.
(5) The committee may act by a majority of its members present at a meeting,
but shall not act unless a quorum is present.
(6) A member of the committee may resign by notice in writing signed by him
and delivered to the liquidator.
(7) If a member of the committee is adjudged an insolvent, or compounds or
arranges with his creditors, or is absent from five consecutive meetings of
the committee without the leave of those members who, together with himself,
represent the creditors or con- tributories, as the case may be, his office
shall become vacant.
(8) A member of the committee may be removed at a meeting of creditors if he
represents creditors, or at a meeting of contributories if he represents
contributories, by an ordinary resolution of which seven days' notice has been
given, stating the object of the meeting.
(9) On a vacancy occurring in the committee, the liquidator shall forthwith
summon a meeting of creditors or of contributories, as the case may require,
to fill the vacancy; and the meeting may, by resolution, reappoint the same,
or appoint another, creditor or contributory to fill the vacancy: Provided
that if the liquidator, having regard to the position in the winding up, is of
the opinion that it is unnecessary for the vacancy to be filled, he may apply
to the Court and the Court may make an order that the vacancy shall not be
filled, or shall not be filled except in such circumstances as may be
specified in the order.
1\. The words" and, failing such appointment, at least once a month," omitted
by Act 65 of 1960, s. 174.
(10) The continuing members of the committee, if not less than two, may act
notwithstanding any vacancy in the committee. General powers of Court in case
of winding up by Court
466. Power of Court to stay winding up.
(1) The Court may at any time after making a winding up order, on the
application either of the Official Liquidator or of any creditor or
contributory, and on proof to the satisfaction of the Court that all
proceedings in relation to the winding up ought to be stayed, make an order
staying the proceedings, either altogether or for a limited time, on such
terms and conditions as the Court thinks fit.
(2) On any application under this section, the Court may, before making an
order, require the Official Liquidator to furnish to the Court a report with
respect to any facts or matters which are in his opinion relevant to the
application.
(3) A copy of every order made under this section shall forthwith be forwarded
by the company, or otherwise as may be prescribed, to the Registrar, who shall
make a minute of the order in his books relating to the company.
467. Settlement of list of contributories and application of assets.
(1) As soon as may be after making a winding up order, the Court shall settle
a list of contributories, with power to rectify the register of members in'
all cases where rectification is required in pursuance of this Act, and shall
cause the assets of the company to be collected and applied in discharge of
its liabilities: Provided that, where it appears to the Court that it will not
be necessary to make calls on, or adjust the rights of, contributories, the
Court may dispense with the settlement of a list of contributories.
(2) In settling the list of contributories, the Court shall distinguish
between those who are contributories in their own right and those who are
contributories as being representatives of, or liable for the debts of,
others.
468. Delivery of property to liquidator. The Court may, at any time after making a winding up order, require any contributory for the time being on the list of contributories, and any trustee, receiver, banker, agent, 1 officer or other employee] of the company, to pay, deliver, surrender or transfer forthwith, or within such time as the Court directs, to the liquidator, any money, property or books and papers 2 in his custody or under his control] to which the company is prima facie entitled.
1\. Subs. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 175, for" or officer".
2\. Subs. by s. 175, ibid., for" in his hands".
469. Payment of debts due by contributory and extent of set- off.
(1) The Court may, at any time after making a winding up order, make an order
on any contributory for the time being on the list of contributories to pay,
in the manner directed by the order, any money due to the company, from him or
from the estate of the person whom he represents, exclusive of any money
payable by him or the estate by virtue of any call in pursuance of this Act.
(2) The Court, in making such an order, may-
(a) in the case of an unlimited company, allow to the contributory, by way of
set- off, any money due to him or to the estate which he represents, from the
company, on any independent dealing or contract with the company, but not any
money due to him as a member of the company in respect of any dividend or
profit; and
(b) in the case of a limited company, make to any director, managing agent,
secretaries and treasurers or manager whose liability is unlimited, or to his
estate, the like allowance.
(3) In the case of any company, whether limited or unlimited, when all the
creditors have been paid in full, any money due on any account whatever to a
contributory from the company may be allowed to him by way of set- off against
any subsequent call.
470. Power of Court to make calls.
(1) The Court may, at any time after making a winding up order and either
before or after it has ascertained the sufficiency of the assets of the
company,-
(a) make calls on all or any of the contributories for the time being on the
list of the contributories, to the extent of their liability, for payment of
any money which the Court considers necessary to satisfy the debts and
liabilities of the company, and the costs, charges and expenses of winding up,
and for the adjustment of the rights of the contributories among themselves;
and
(b) make an order for payment of any calls so made.
(2) In making a call, the Court may take into consideration the probability
that some of the contributories may, partly or wholly, fail to pay the call.
471. Payment into bank of moneys due to company.
(1) The Court may order any contributory, purchaser or other person from whom
any money is due to the company to pay the money into the public account of
India in the Reserve Bank of India instead of to the liquidator.
(2) Any such order may be enforced in the same manner as if the Court had
directed payment to the liquidator.
472. Moneys and securities paid into Bank to be subject to order of Court. All moneys, bills, hundis, notes and other securities paid or delivered into the Reserve Bank of India in the course of the wind- ing up of a company by the Court, shall be subject in all respects to the orders of the Court.
473. Order on contributory to be conclusive evidence.
(1) An order made by the Court on a contributory shall, subject to any right
of appeal, be conclusive evidence that the money, if any, thereby appearing to
be due or ordered to be paid is due.
(2) All other pertinent matters stated in the order shall be taken to be truly
stated as against all persons and in all proceedings whatsoever.
474. Power to exclude creditors not proving in time. The Court may fix a time or times within which creditors are to prove their debts or claims, or to be excluded from the benefit of any distribution made before those debts or claims are proved.
475. Adjustment or rights of contributories. The Court shall adjust the rights of the contributories among themselves, and distribute any surplus among the persons entitled thereto.
476. Power to order costs. The Court may, in the event of the assets being insufficient to satisfy the liabilities, make an order for the payment out of the assets, of the costs, charges and expenses incurred in the winding up, in such order of priority inter se as the Court thinks just.
477. Power to summon persons suspected of having property of company, etc.
(1) The Court may, at any time after the appointment of a provisional
liquidator or the making of a winding up order summon before it any officer of
the company or person known or suspected to have in his possession any
property or books or papers, of the company, or known or suspected to be
indebted to the company, or any person whom the Court deems capable of giving
information concerning the promotion, formation, trade, dealings, property,
books or papers, or affairs of the company.
(2) The Court may examine any officer or person so summoned on oath concerning
the matters aforesaid, either by word of mouth or on written interrogatories;
and may, in the former case, reduce his answers to writing and require him to
sign them.
(3) The Court may require any officer or person so summoned to produce any
books and papers in his custody or power relating to
the company; but, where he claims any lien on books or papers produced by him,
the production shall be without prejudice to that lien, and the Court shall
have jurisdiction in the winding up to determine all questions relating to
that lien.
(4) If any officer or person so summoned, after being paid or tendered a
reasonable sum for his expenses, fails to appear before the Court at the time
appointed, not having a lawful impediment (made known to the Court at the time
of its sitting and allowed by it), the Court may cause him to be apprehended
and brought before the Court for examination.
(5) 1 If, on his examination, any officer or person so summoned admits that he
is indebted to the company, the Court may order him to pay to the provisional
liquidator or, as the case may be, the liquidator at such time and in such
manner as to the Court may seem just, the amount in which he is indebted, or
any part thereof, either in full discharge of the whole amount or not, as the
Court thinks fit, with or without costs of the examination.
(6) If, on his examination, any such officer or person admits that he has in
his possession any property belonging to the company, the Court may order him
to deliver to the provisional liquidator or, as the case may be, the
liquidator, that property or any part thereof, at such time, in such manner
and on such terms as to the Court may seem just.
(7) Orders made under sub- sections (5) and (6) shall be executed in the same
manner as decrees for the payment of money or for the delivery of property
under the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 , (5 of 1908 .) respectively.
(8) Any person making any payment or delivery in pursuance of an order made
under sub- section (5) or sub- section (6) shall by such payment or delivery
be, unless otherwise directed by such order, discharged from all liability
whatsoever in respect of such debt or property.]
478. Power to order public examination of promoters, directors, etc.
(1) When an order has been made for winding up a company by the Court, and the
Official Liquidator has made a report to the Court under this Act, stating
that in his opinion a fraud has been committed by any person in the promotion
or formation of the company, or by any officer of the company in relation to
the company since its formation, the Court may, after considering the report,
direct that that person or officer shall attend before the Court on a day
1\. Ins. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 176.
appointed by it for that purpose, and be publicly examined as to the promotion
or formation or the conduct of the business of the company, or as to his
conduct and dealings as an officer thereof.
(2) The Official Liquidator shall take part in the examination, and for that
purpose may, if specially authorized by the Court in that behalf, employ such
legal assistance as may be sanctioned by the Court.
(3) Any creditor or contributory may also take part in the examination either
personally or by any advocate, attorney or pleader entitled to appear before
the Court.
(4) The Court may put such questions to the person examined as it thinks fit.
(5) The person examined shall be examined on oath, and shall answer all such
questions as the Court may put, or allow to be put, to him.
(6) A person ordered to be examined under this section-
(a) shall, before his examination, be furnished at his own cost with a copy of
the Official Liquidator' s report; and
(b) may at his own cost employ an advocate, attorney or pleader entitled to
appear before the Court, who shall be at liberty to put to him such questions
as the Court may deem just for the purpose of enabling him to explain or
qualify any answers given by him.
(7) (a) If any such person applies to the Court to be exculpated from any
charges made or suggested against him, it shall be the duty of the Official
Liquidator to appear on the hearing of the application and call the attention
of the Court to any matters which appear to the Official Liquidator to be
relevant.
(b) If the Court, after hearing any evidence given or witnesses called by the
Official Liquidator, grants the application, the Court may allow the applicant
such costs as it may think fit.
(8) Notes of the examination shall be taken down in writing, and shall be read
over to or by, and signed by, the person examined; and may thereafter be used
in evidence against him, and shall be open to the inspection of any creditor
or contributory at all reasonable times.
(9) The Court may, if it thinks fit, adjourn the examination from time to
time.
(10) An examination under this section may, if the Court so directs and
subject to any rules made in this behalf, be held before any District Judge,
or before any officer of the High Court, being an official Referee, Master,
Registrar or Deputy Registrar.
(11) The powers of the Court under this section as to the conduct of the
examination, but not as to costs, may be exercised by the Judge or officer
before whom the examination is held in pursuance of sub- section (10).
479. Power to arrest absconding contributory. At any time either before or after making a winding up order, the Court may, on proof of probable cause for believing that a contributory is about to quit India or otherwise to abscond, or is about to remove or conceal any of his property, for the purpose of evading payment of calls or of avoiding examination respecting the affairs of the company, cause--
(a) the contributory to be arrested and safely kept until such time as the
Court may order; and
(b) his books and papers and movable property to be seized and safely kept
until such time as the Court may order.
480. Saving of existing powers of Court. Any powers conferred on the Court by this Act shall be in addition to, and not in derogation of, any existing powers of instituting proceedings against any contributory or debtor of the company, or the estate of any contributory or debtor, for the recovery of any call or other sums.
481. Dissolution of company.
(1) When the affairs of a company have been completely wound up 1 or when the
Court is of the opinion that the liquidator cannot proceed with the winding up
of a company for want of funds and assets or for any other reason whatsoever
and it is just and reasonable in the circumstances of the case that an order
of dissolution of the company should be made], the Court shall make an order
that the company be dissolved from the date of the order, and the company
shall be dissolved accordingly.
(2) A copy of the order shall, within 2 thirty] days from the date thereof, be
forwarded by the liquidator the Registrar who shall make in his books a minute
of the dissolution of the company.
(3) If the liquidator makes default in forwarding a copy as aforesaid. he
shall be punishable with fine which may extend to fifty rupees for every day
during which the default continues. Enforcement of and appeal from orders
482. Order made to any Court to be enforced by other Courts. Any order made by a Court for, or in the course of, winding up a company shall be enforceable at any place in India, other than
1\. Ins. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 177.
2\. Subs. by Act 31 of 1965, s. 62 and Sch., for" fourteen" (w. e. f. 15- 10-
1985 ).
that over which such Court has jurisdiction, by the Court which would have had
jurisdiction in respect of the company if its registered office had been
situate at such other place, and in the same manner in all respects as if the
order had been made by that Court.
483. Appeals from orders. Appeals from any order made, or decision given, in the matter of the winding up of a company by the Court shall lie to the same Court to which, in the same manner in which, and subject to the same conditions under which, appeals lie from any order or decision of the Court in cases within its ordinary jurisdiction. CHAP VOLUNTARY WINDING UP CHAPTER III.- VOLUNTARY WINDING UP Resolutions for, and commencement of, voluntary winding up
484. Circumstances in which company may be wound up voluntarily.
(1) A company may be wound up voluntarily--
(a) when the period, if any, fixed for the duration of the company by the
articles has expired, or the event, if any, has occurred, on the occurrence of
which the articles provide that the company is to be dissolved, and the
company in general meeting passes a resolution requiring the company to be
wound up voluntarily;
(b) if the company passes a special resolution that the company be wound up
voluntarily.
(2) In this Act, the expression" a resolution for voluntary winding up" means
a resolution passed under clause (a) or (b) of sub- section (1).
485. Publication of resolution to wind up voluntraily.
(1) When a company has passed a resolution for voluntary winding up, it shall,
within fourteen days of the passing of the resolution, give notice of the
resolution by advertisement in the Official Gazette, and also in some
newspaper circulating in the district where the registered office of the
company is situate.
(2) If default is made in complying with sub- section (1), the company, and
every officer of the company who is in default, shall be punishable with fine
which may extend to fifty rupees for every day during which the default
continues. For the purposes of this sub- section, a liquidator of the company
shall be deemed to be an officer of the company.
486. Commencement of voluntary winding up. A voluntary winding up shall be deemed to commence at the time when the resolution for voluntary winding up is passed.
Consequences of voluntary winding up
487. Effect of voluntary winding up on status of company. In the case of a voluntary winding up, the company shall from the commencement of the winding up, cease to carry on its business, except so far as may be required for the beneficial winding up of such business: Provided that the corporate state and corporate powers of the company shall continue until it is dissolved. Declaration of Solvency
488. Declaration of solvency in case of proposal to wind up voluntarily.
(1) Where it is proposed to wind up a company voluntarily, its directors, or
in case the company has more than two directors, the majority of the
directors, may, at a meeting of the Board, make a declaration verified by an
affidavit, to the effect that they have made a full inquiry into the affairs
of the company, and that, having done so, they have formed the opinion that
the company has no debts, or that it will be able to pay its debts in full
within such period not exceeding three years from the commencement of the
winding up as may be specified in the declaration.
(2) A declaration made as aforesaid shall have no effect for the purposes of
this Act, unless-
(a) it is made within the five weeks immediately preceding the date of the
passing of the resolution for winding up the company and is delivered to the
Registrar for registration before that date; and
(b) 1 it is accompanied by a copy of the report of the auditors of the company
(prepared, as far as circumstances admit, in accordance with the provisions of
this Act) on the profit and loss account of the company for the period
commencing from the date up to which the last such account was prepared and
ending with the latest practicable date immediately before the making of the
declaration and the balance sheet of the company made out as on the last-
mentioned date and also embodies a statement of the company' s assets and
liabilities as at that date.]
(3) Any director of a company making a declaration under this section without
having reasonable grounds for the opinion that the company will be able to pay
its debts in full within the period specified in the declaration, shall be
punishable with imprisonment
1\. Subs. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 178, for cl. (b),
for a term which may extend to six months, or with fine which may extend to
five thousand rupees, or with both.
(4) If the company is wound up in pursuance of a resolution passed within the
period of five weeks after the making of the declaration, but its debts are
not paid or provided for in full within the period specified in the
declaration, it shall be presumed, until the contrary is shown, that the
director did not have reasonable grounds for his opinion.
(5) A winding up in the case of which a declaration has been made and
delivered in accordance with this section is in this Act referred to as" a
members' voluntary winding up"; and a winding up in the case of which a
declaration has not been so made and delivered is in this Act referred to as a
creditors' voluntary winding up". Provisions applicable to a Members Voluntary
Winding Up
489. Provisions applicable to a members' voluntary winding up. The provisions contained in sections 490 to 498, both inclusive, shall subject to the provisions of section 498, apply in relation to a members' voluntary winding up.
490. Power of company to appoint and fix remuneration of liquidators.
(1) The company in general meeting shall-
(a) appoint one or more liquidators for the purpose of winding up the affairs
and distributing the assets of the company; and
(b) fix the remuneration, if any, to be paid to the liquidator or liquidators.
(2) Any remuneration so fixed shall not be increased in any cir- cumstances
whatever, whether with or without the sanction of the Court.
(3) Before the remuneration of the liquidator or liquidators is fixed as
aforesaid, the liquidator, or any of the liquidators, as the case may be,
shall not take charge of his office.
491. Board' s powers to cease on appointment of a liquidator. On the appointment of a liquidator, all the powers of the Board of directors and of the managing or whole- time directors, managing agent, secretaries and treasurers, and manager, if there be any of these, shall cease, except for the purpose of giving notice of such appointment to the Registrar in pursuance of section 493 or in so far as the company in general meeting or the liquidator may sanction the continuance thereof.
492. Power to fill vacancy in office of liquidator.
(1) If a vacancy occurs by death, resignation or otherwise in the office of
any liquidator appointed by the company, the company in general meeting may,
subject to any arrangement with its creditors, fill the vacancy.
(2) For that purpose, a general meeting may be convened by any contributory,
or by the continuing liquidator or liquidators, if any.
(3) The meeting shall be held in the manner provided by this Act or by the
articles, or in such other manner as the Court may, on application by any
contributory or by the continuing liquidator or liquidators, determine.
493. Notice of appointment of liquidator to be given to Registrar.
(1) The company shall give notice to the Registrar of the appointment of a
liquidator or liquidators made by it under section 490, of every vacancy
occurring in the office of liquidator, and of the name of the liquidator or
liquidators appointed to fill every such vacancy under section 492.
(2) The notice aforesaid shall be given by the company within ten days of the
event to which it relates.
(3) If default is made in complying with sub- section (1) or (2), the company,
and every officer of the company (including every liquidator or continuing
liquidator) who is in default, shall be punishable with fine which may extend
to one hundred rupees for every day during which the default continues.
494. Power of liquidator to accept shares, etc., as consideration for sale of property of company.
(1) Where-
(a) a company (in this section called" the transferor company") is proposed to
be, or is in course of being, wound up altogether voluntarily; and
(b) the whole or any part of its business or property is proposed to be
transferred or sold to another company,, whether a company within the meaning
of this Act or not (in this section called" the transferee company"); the
liquidator of the transferor company may, with the sanction of a special
resolution of that company conferring on the liquidator either a general
authority or an authority in respect of any particular arrangement,-
(i) receive, by way of compensation or part compensation for the transfer or
sale, shares, policies, or other like interests in the transferee company, for
distribution among the, members of the transferor company; or
(ii) enter into any other arrangement whereby the members of the transferor
company may, in lieu of receiving cash. shares, policies, or other like
interests or in addition thereto, participate in the profits of, or receive
any other benefit from, the transferee company.
(2) Any sale or arrangement in pursuance of this section shall be binding on
the members of the transferor company.
(3) If any member of the transferor company who did not vote in favour of the
special resolution expresses his dissent therefrom in writing addressed to the
liquidator, and left at the registered office of the company within seven days
after the passing of the resolution, he may require the liquidator either-
(a) to abstain from carrying the resolution into effect; or
(b) to purchase his interest at a price to be determined by agreement, or by
arbitration in the manner provided by this section.
(4) If the liquidator elects to purchase the member' s interest, the purchase
money shall be paid before the company is dissolved, and be raised by the
liquidator in such manner as may be determined by special resolution.
(5) A special resolution shall not be invalid for the purposes of this section
by reason only that it is passed before or concurrently with, a resolution for
voluntary winding up or for appointing liquidators; but if an order is made
within a year for winding up the company by or subject to the supervision of
the Court, the special resolution shall not be valid unless it is sanctioned
by the Court.
(6) The provisions of the Arbitration Act, 1940 (10 of 1940 ) 1 other than
those restricting the application of that Act in respect of the subject matter
of the arbitration, shall apply to all arbitrations in pursuance of this
section.
495. Duty of liquidator to call creditors' meeting in case of insolvency.
(1) If, in the case of a winding up commenced after the commencement of this
Act, the liquidator is at any time of opinion that the company will not be
able to pay its debts in full within the period stated in the declaration
under section 488, or that period has expired without the debts having been
paid in full, he shall forthwith summon a meeting of the creditors, and shall
lay before the meeting a statement of the assets and liabilities of the
company.
(2) If the liquidator fails to comply with sub- section (1), he shall be
punishable with fine which may extend to five hundred rupees.
1\. See now the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 (26 of 1996 ).
496. Duty of liquidator to call general meeting at end of each year.
(1) Subject to the provisions of section 498, in the event of the winding up
continuing for more than one year, the liquidator shall-
(a) call a general meeting of the company at the end of the first year from
the commencement of the winding up, and at the end of each succeeding year, or
as soon thereafter as may be convenient within three months from the end of
the year or such longer period as the Central Government may allow; and
(b) lay before the meeting an account of his acts and dealings and of the
conduct of the winding up during the preceding year, together with a statement
in the prescribed form and containing the prescribed particulars with respect
to the proceedings in, and position of, the liquidation.
(2) If the liquidator fails to comply with sub- section (1), he shall be
punishable, in respect of each failure, with fine which may extend to one
hundred rupees.
497. Final meeting and dissolution.
(1) Subject to the provisions of section 498, as soon as the and affairs of
the company are fully wound up, the liquidator shall-
(a) make up an account of the winding up, showing how the winding up has been
conducted and the property of the company has been disposed of; and
(b) call a general meeting of the company for the purpose of laying the
account before it, and giving any explanation thereof.
(2) The meeting shall be called by advertisement-
(a) specifying the time, place and object of the meeting; and
(b) published not less than one month before the meeting in the Official
Gazette, and also in some newspaper circulating in the district where the
registered office of the company is situate,
(3) Within one week after the meeting, the liquidator shall send to the 1
Registrar and the Official liquidator a copy each of the account and shall
make a return to each of them] of the holding of the meeting and of the date
thereof. If the copy is not so sent or the return is not so made, the
liquidator shall be punishable with fine which may extend to fifty rupees for
every day during which the default continues.
1\. Subs. by Act 31 of 1965, s. 54, for certain words (w. e. f. 15- 10- 1965
).
(4) If a quorum is not present at the meeting aforesaid, the liquidator shall,
in lieu of the return referred to in sub- section (3) make a return that the
meeting was duly called and that no quorum was present thereat. Upon such a
return being made within one week after the date fixed for the meeting, the
provisions of sub- section (3) as to the making of the return shall be deemed
to have been complied with,
(5) 1 The Registrar, on receiving the account and either the return mentioned
in sub- section (3) or the return mentioned in sub- section (4), shall
forthwith register them.
(6) The Official Liquidator, on receiving the account and either the return
mentioned in sub- section (3) or the return mentioned in sub- section (4),
shall, as soon as may be, make, and the liquidator and all officers, past or
present, of the company shall give the Official Liquidator all reasonable
facilities to make, a scrutiny of the books and papers of the company and if
on such scrutiny the Official Liquidator makes a report to the Court that the
affairs of the company have not been conducted in a manner prejudicial to the
interests of its members or to public interest, then, from the date of the
submission of the report to the Court the company shall be deemed to be
dissolved.
(6A) If on such scrutiny the Official Liquidator makes a report to the Court
that the affairs of the company have been conducted in a manner prejudicial as
aforesaid, the Court shall by order direct the Official Liquidator to make a
further investigation of the affairs of the company and for that purpose shall
invest him with all such powers as the Court may deem fit.
(6B) On the receipt of the report of the Official Liquidator on such further
investigation the Court may either make an order that the company shall stand
dissolved with effect from the date to be specified by the Court therein or
make such other order as the circum- stances of the case brought out in the
report permit.]
(7) If the liquidator fails to call a general meeting of the com- pany as
required by this section, he shall be punishable with fine which may extend to
five hundred rupees.
1\. Subs. by Act 31 of 1965, s. 54, for sub- sections (5) and (6) (w. e. f.
15- 10- 1965 ).
498. Alternative provisions as to annual and final meetings in case of insolvency. Where section 495 has effect, sections 508 and 509 shall apply to the winding up, to the exclusion of sections 496 and 497, as if the winding up were a creditors' voluntary winding up and not a members' voluntary- winding up: Provided that the liquidator shall not be required to call a meeting of creditors under section 508 at the end of the first year from the commencement of the winding up, unless the meeting held under section 495 has been held more than three months before the end of that year. Provisions applicable to a Creditors' Voluntary Winding Up
499. Provisions applicable to a creditor' s voluntary winding up. The provisions contained in sections 500 to 509, both inclusive, shall apply in relation to a creditors' voluntary winding up.
500. Meeting of creditors.
(1) The company shall cause a meeting of the creditors of the company to be
called for the day, or the day next following the day, on which there is to be
held the general meeting of the company at which the resolution for voluntary
winding up is to be proposed, and shall cause notices of the meeting of
creditors to be sent by post to the creditors simultaneously with the sending
of the notices of the meeting of the company.
(2) The company shall cause notice of the meeting of the creditors to be
advertised once at least in the Official Gazette and once at least in two
newspapers circulating in the district where the re- gistered office or
principal place of business of the company is situate.
(3) The Board of directors of the company shall-
(a) cause a full statement of the position of the company affairs together
with a list of the creditors of the company and the estimated amount of their
claims to be laid before the meeting of the creditors to be held as aforesaid;
and
(b) appoint one of their number to preside at the said meeting.
(4) It shall be the duty of the director appointed to preside at the meeting
of creditors to attend the meeting and preside thereat.
(5) If the meeting of the company at which the resolution for voluntary
winding up is to be proposed is adjourned and the resolution is passed at an
adjourned meeting, any resolution passed at
the meeting of the creditors held in pursuance of sub- section (1) shall have
effect as if it had been passed immediately after the pass- ing of the
resolution for winding up the company.
(6) If default is made-
(a) by the company, in complying with sub- sections (1) and (2);
(b) by its Board of directors, in complying with sub- section (3);
(c) by any director of the company, in complying with sub- section (4); the
company, each of the directors, or the director, as the case may be, shall be
punishable with fine which may extend to one thousand rupees and, in the case
of default by the company, every officer of
the company who is in default, shall be liable to the like punishment.
501. Notice of resolutions passed by creditors' meeting to be given to Registrar.
(1) Notice of any resolution passed at a creditors' meeting in pursuance of
section 500 shall be given by the company to the Registrar within ten days of
the passing thereof.
(2) If default is made in complying with sub- section (1), the company, and
every officer of the company who is in default, shall be punishable with fine
which may extend to fifty rupees for every day during which the default
continues. For the purposes of this section, a liquidator of the company shall
be deemed to be an officer of the company.
502. Appointment of liquidator.
(1) The creditors and the company at their respective meetings mentioned in
section 500 may nominate a person to be liquidator for the purpose of winding
up the affairs and distributing the assets of the company.
(2) If the creditors and the company nominate, different persons the person
nominated by the creditors shall be liquidator: Provided that any director,
member or creditor of the company may, within seven days after the date on
which the nomination was made by the creditors, apply to the Court for an
order either directing that the person nominated as liquidator by the company
shall be liquidator instead of or jointly with the person nominated by the
creditors, or appointing the Official Liquidator or some other person to be
liquidator instead of the person appointed by the creditors.
(3) If no person is nominated by the creditors, the person, if any, nominated
by the company shall be liquidator.
(4) If no person is nominated by the company, the person, if any, nominated by
the creditors shall be liquidator.
503. Appointment of committee of inspection.
(1) The creditors at the meeting to be held in pursuance of section 500 or at
any subsequent meeting may, if they think fit, appoint a committee of
inspection consisting of not more than five persons.
(2) If such a committee is appointed, the company may, either at the meeting
at which the resolution for voluntary winding up is passed or at any
subsequent general meeting, appoint such number of persons (not exceeding
five) as they think fit to act as members of the committee:
Provided that the creditors may, if they think fit, resolve that all or any of
the persons so appointed by the company ought not to be members of the
committee of inspection.
(3) If the creditors so resolve, the persons mentioned in the resolution shall
not, unless the Court otherwise directs, be qualified to act as members of the
committee.
(4) On any application to the Court for a direction under sub- section (3),
the Court may, if it thinks fit, appoint other persons to act as members of
the committee of inspection in the place of the persons mentioned in the
creditors' resolution.
(5) Subject to the provisions of sub- sections (1) to (4) and to such rules as
may be made by the Central Government, the provisions of section 465 except
sub- section (1) thereof] shall apply with respect to a committee of
inspection appointed under this section as they apply with respect to a
committee of inspection appointed in a winding up by the Court.
504. Fixing of liquidators' remuneration.
(1) The committee of inspection, or if there is no such committee, the
creditors, may fix the remuneration to be paid to the liquidator or
liquidators.
(2) Where the remuneration is not so fixed, it shall be determined by the
Court.
(3) Any remuneration fixed under sub- section (1) or (2) shall not be
increased in any circumstances whatever, whether with or without the sanction
of the Court.
505. Board' s powers to cease on appointment of liquidator. On the appointment of a liquidator, all the powers of the Board of directors shall cease, except in so far as the committee of inspection, or if there is no such committee, the creditors in general meeting, may sanction the continuance thereof.
506. Power to fill vacancy in office of liquidator. If a vacancy occurs by death, resignation or otherwise, in the office of a liquidator (other than a liquidator appointed by, or by the direction of, the Court), the creditors in general meeting may fill the vacancy.
507. Application of section 494 to a creditors' voluntary winding up. The provisions of section 494 shall apply in the case of a creditors' voluntary winding up as in the case of a members' voluntary winding up, with the modification that the powers of the liquidator under that section shall not be exercised except with the sanction either of the Court or of the committee of inspection.
508. Duty of liquidator to call meetings of company and of creditors at end of each year.
(1) In the event of the winding up continuing for more than one year, the
liquidator shall-
(a) call a general meeting of the company and a meeting of the creditors at
the end of the first year from the com- mencement of the winding up and at the
end of each succeeding year, or as soon thereafter as may be convenient within
three months from the end of the year or such longer period as the Central
Government may allow; and
(b) lay before the meetings an account of his acts and dealings and of the
conduct of the winding up during the preceding year, together with a statement
in the prescribed form and containing the prescribed particulars with respect
to the proceedings in, and position of, the winding up.
(2) If the liquidator fails to comply with sub- section (1), he shall be
punishable, in respect of each failure, with fine which may extend. to one
hundred rupees.
509. Final meeting and dissolution.
(1) As soon as the affairs of the company are fully wound up, the liquidator
shall-
(a) make up an account of the winding up, showing how the winding up has been
conducted and the property of the company has been disposed of; and
(b) call a general meeting of the company and a meeting of the creditors for
the purpose of laying the account before the meetings and giving any
explanation thereof,
(2) Each such meeting shall be called by advertisement-
(a) specifying the time, place and object thereof; and
(b) published not less than one month before the meeting in the Official
Gazette and also in some newspaper circulating in the district where the
registered office of the company is situate.
(3) Within one week after the date of the meetings, or if the meetings are not
held on the same date, after the date of the later meeting, the liquidator
shall send to the 1 Registrar and the Official Liquidator a copy each of the
account and shall make a return to
1\. Subs. by Act 31 of 1965, s. 55, for certain words (w. e. f. 15- 10- 1965
).
each of them] of the holding of the meetings and of the date or dates on which
they were held. If the copy is not so sent or the return is not so made, the
liquidator shall be punishable with fine which may extend to fifty rupees for
every day during which the default continues.
(4) If a quorum (which for the purposes of this section shall be two persons)
is not present at either of such meetings, the liquidator shall, in lieu of
the return referred to in sub- section (3), make a return that the meeting was
duly called and that no quorum was present thereat. Upon such a return being
made within one week after the date fixed for the meeting, the provisions of
sub- section (3) as to the making of the return shall, in respect of that
meeting, be deemed to have been complied with.
(5) 1 The Registrar, on receiving the account and also, in respect of each
such meeting, either the return mentioned in sub- section (3) or the return
mentioned in sub- section (4), shall forthwith register them.
(6) The Official Liquidator, on receiving the account and either the return
mentioned in sub- section (3) or the return mentioned in sub- section (4),
shall, as soon as may be, make, and the liquidator and all officers, past or
present, of the company shall give the Official Liquidator all reasonable
facilities to make, a scrutiny of the books and papers of the company and if
on such scrutiny the Official Liquidator makes a report to the Court that the
affairs of the company have not been conducted in a manner prejudicial to the
interests of its members or to public interest, then, from the date of the
submission of the report to the Court the company shall be deemed to be
dissolved.
(6A) If on such scrutiny the Official Liquidator makes a report to the Court
that the affairs of the company have been conducted in a manner prejudicial as
aforesaid, the Court shall by order direct the Official Liquidator to make a
further investigation of the affairs of the company and for that purpose shall
invest him with all such powers as the Court may deem fit.
(6B) On the receipt of the report of the Official Liquidator on such further
investigation the Court may either make an order that the company shall stand
dissolved with effect from the date to be specified by the Court therein or
make such other order as the circumstances of the case brought out in the
report permit.]
1\. Subs. by Act 31 of 1965, s. 55, for sub- sections (5) and (6) (w. e. f.
15. 10. 1965 ).
(7) If the liquidator fails to call a general meeting of the company or a
meeting of the creditors as required by this section, he shall be punishable,
in respect of each such failure, with fine which may extend to five hundred
rupees. Provisions applicable to every voluntary winding up
510. Provisions applicable to every voluntary winding up. The provisions contained in sections 511 to 521, both inclusive, shall apply to every voluntary winding up, whether a members' or a creditors' winding up.
511. Distribution of property of company. Subject to the provisions of this Act as to preferential payments, the assets of a company shall, on its winding up, be applied in satisfaction of its liabilities pari passu and, subject to such application, shall, unless the articles otherwise provide, be distributed among the members according to their rights and interests in the company.
Application of section 454 to voluntary winding up.
511A. 1 Application of section 454 to voluntary winding up. The provisions of
section 454 shall, so far as may be, apply to every voluntary winding up as
they apply to the winding up by the Court except that references to-
(a) the Court shall be omitted;
(b) the Official Liquidator or the provisional liquidator shall be construed
as references to the liquidator; and
(c) the" relevant date" shall be construed as references to the date of
commencement of the winding up.]
512. Powers and duties of liquidator in voluntary winding up.
(1) The liquidator may,-
(a) in the case of a members' voluntary winding up, with the sanction of a
special resolution of the company, and in the case of a creditors' voluntary
winding up, with the sanction of the Court or, the committee of inspection or,
if there is no such committee, of a meeting of the creditors, exercise any of
the powers given by 2 clauses (a) to (d) of sub- section (1)] of section 457
to a liquidator in a winding up by the Court;
(b) without the sanction referred to in clause (a), exercise any of the other
powers given by this Act to the liquidator in a winding up by the Court;
1\. Ins. by Act 31 of 1965, s. 56 (w. e. f. 15- 10- 1965 ).
2\. Subs. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 179, for" clauses (i) to (iv) of sub- section
(2)".
(c) exercise the power of the Court under this Act of settling a list of
contributories (which shall be prima facie evidence of the liability of the
persons named therein to be contributories);
(d) exercise the power of the Court of making calls;
(e) call general meetings of the company for the purpose of obtaining the
sanction of the company by ordinary or special resolution, as the case may
require, or for any other purpose he may think fit.
(2) The exercise by the liquidator of the powers given by clause (a) of sub-
section (1) shall be subject to the control of the Court; and any creditor or
contributory may apply to the Court with respect to any exercise or proposed
exercise of any of the powers conferred by this section.
(3) The liquidator shall pay the debts of the company and shall adjust the
rights of the contributories among themselves.
(4) When several liquidators are appointed, any power given by this Act may be
exercised by such one or more of them as may be determined at the time of
their appointment, or, in default of such determination, by any number of them
not being less than two.
513. Body corporate not to be appointed as liquidator.
(1) A body corporate shall not be qualified for appointment as liquidator of a
company in a voluntary winding up.
(2) Any appointment made in contravention of sub- section (1) shall be void.
(3) Any body corporate which acts as liquidator of a company and every
director, the managing agent or secretaries and treasurers, or a manager
thereof shall be punishable with fine which may extend to one thousand rupees.
514. Corrupt inducement affecting appointment as liquaidator. Any person who gives, or agrees or offers to give, to any member or creditor of a company any gratification whatever with a view to-
(a) securing his own appointment or nomination as the company' s liquidator;
or
(b) securing or preventing the appointment or nomination of some person other
than himself, as the company' s liquidator; shall be punishable with fine
which may extend to one thousand rupees.
515. Power of Court to appoint and remove liquidator in voluntary winding up.
(1) If from any cause whatever, there is no liquidator acting, 1 the Court may
appoint the Official Liquidator or any other person as a liquidator].
(2) 2 The Court may, on cause shown remove a liquidator and appoint the
Official Liquidator or any other person as a liquidator in place of the
removed liquidator.
(3) The Court may also appoint or remove a liquidator on the application made
by the Registrar in this behalf.
(4) If the Official Liquidator is appointed as liquidator under the proviso to
sub- section (2) of section 502 or under this section, the remuneration to be
paid to him shall be fixed by the Court and shall be credited to the Central
Government.]
516. Notice by liquidator of his appointment.
(1) The liquidator shall, within 3 thirty] days after his appointment, publish
in the Official Gazette, and deliver to the Registrar for registration, a
notice of his appointment in the form prescribed.
(2) If the liquidator fails to comply with sub- section (1), he shall be
punishable with fine which may extend to fifty rupees for every day during
which the default continues.
1\. Subs. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 180, for" the Court may appoint a liquidator".
2\. Subs. by s. 180, ibid., for sub- section (2).
3\. Subs. by Act 31 of 1965, s. 62 and Sch. for" twenty- one" (w. e. f. 15-
10- 1965 ).
517. Arrangement when binding on company and creditors.
(1) Any arrangement entered into between a company about to be, or in the
course of being, wound up and its creditors shall, subject to the right of
appeal under this section, be binding on the company and on the creditors if
it is sanctioned by a special resolution of the company and acceded to by
three- fourths in number and value of the creditors.
(2) Any creditor or contributory may, within three weeks from the completion
of the arrangement, appeal to the Court against it and the Court may
thereupon, as it thinks just, amend, vary, confirm or set aside the
arrangement.
518. Power to apply to Court to have questions determined or powers exercised.
(1) The liquidator or any contributory or creditor may apply to the Court-
(a) to determine any question arising in the winding up of a company; or
(b) to exercise, as respects the enforcing of calls, the staying of
proceedings or any other matter, all or any of the powers which the Court
might exercise if the company were being wound up by the Court.
(2) The liquidator or any creditor or contributory may apply to the Court
specified in sub- section (3) for an order setting aside any attachment,
distress or execution put into force against the estate or effects of the
company after the commencement of the winding up,
(3) An application under sub- section (2) shall be made-
(a) if the attachment, distress or execution is levied or put into force by a
High Court, to such High Court; and
(b) if the attachment, distress or execution is levied or put into force by
any other Court, to the Court having juris- diction to wind up the company.
(4) The Court, if satisfied on an application under sub- section (1) or (2)
that the determination of the question or the required exercise of power or
the order applied for will be just and beneficial, may accede wholly or
partially to the application on such terms and conditions as it thinks fit, or
may make such other order on the application as it thinks just.
(5) A copy of an order staying the proceedings in the winding up, made by
virtue of this section, shall forthwith be forwarded by the company, or
otherwise as may be prescribed, to the Registrar, who shall make a minute of
the order in his books relating to the company.
519. Application of liquidator to Court for public examination of promoters, directors, etc.
(1) The liquidator may make a report to the Court stating that in his opinion
a fraud has been committed by any person in the promotion or formation of the
company or by any officer of the company in relation to the company since its
formation; and the Court may, after considering the report, direct that that
person or officer shall attend before the Court on a day appointed by it for
that purpose, and be publicly examined as to the promotion or formation or the
conduct of the business of the company, or as to his conduct and dealings as
officer thereof.
(2) The provisions of sub- sections (2) to (11) of section 478 shall apply in
relation to any examination directed under sub- section (1) as they apply in
relation to an examination directed under sub- section (1) of section 478 with
references to the liquidator being substituted for references to the Official
Liquidator in those provi- sions.
520. Costs of voluntary winding up. All costs, charges and expenses properly incurred in the winding up, including the remuneration of the liquidator, shall subject to the rights of secured creditors, if any, be payable out of the assets of the company in priority to all other claims.
521. [ Saving of right of creditors and contributories to apply for winding up.] Rep. by the Companies (Amendment) Act, 1960 (65 of 1960 ), s. 181. CHAP WINDING UP SUBJECT TO SUPERVISION OF COURT CHAPTER IV.- WINDING UP SUBJECT TO SUPERVISION OF COURT
522. Power to order winding up subject to supervision. At any time after a company has passed a resolution for voluntary winding up, the Court may make an order that the voluntary winding up shall continue, but subject to such supervision of the Court, and with such liberty for creditors, contributories or others to apply to the Court, and generally on such terms and conditions, as the Court thinks just.
523. Effect of petition for winding up subject to supervision. A petition for the continuance of a voluntary winding up subject to the supervision of the Court shall, for the purpose of giving jurisdiction to the Court over suits and legal proceedings, be deemed to be a petition for winding up by the Court.
524. Power of Court to appoint or remove liquidators.
(1) Where an order is made for a winding up subject to supervision, the Court
may, by that or any subsequent order, appoint an additional liquidator or
liquidators.
(2) The Court may remove any liquidator so appointed or any liquidator
continued under the supervision order, and fill any vacancy occasioned by the
removal, or by death or resignation.
(3) 1 The Court may appoint the Official Liquidator as a liqui- dator under
sub- section (1) or to fill any vacancy occasioned under sub- section (2).
(4) The Court may also appoint or remove a liquidator on an application made
by the Registrar in this behalf.]
525. Powers and obligations of liquidator appointed by Court. A liquidator appointed by the Court under section 524 shall have the same powers, be subject to the same obligations, and in all respects stand in the same position, as if he had been duly appointed a in accordance with the provisions of this Act with respect to the appointment of liquidators in a voluntary winding up.
526. Effect of supervision order.
(1) Where an order is made for a winding up subject to supervision, the
liquidator may, subject to any restrictions imposed by the Court, exercise all
his powers, without the sanction or intervention of the Court, in the same
manner as if the company were being wound up altogether voluntarily.
(2) Except as provided in sub- section (1), any order made by the Court for a
winding up subject to the supervision of the Court, shall for all purposes,
including the staying of suits and other pro- ceedings, be deemed to be an
order of the Court for winding up the company by the Court, and shall confer
full authority on the Court to make calls or to enforce calls made by the
liquidators, and to exercise all other powers which it might have exercised if
an order had been made for winding up the company altogether by the Court.
(3) In the construction of the provisions whereby the Court is empowered to
direct any act or thing to be done to or in favour of the liquidator, the
expression" liquidator" shall be deemed to mean the liquidator conducting the
winding up, subject to the supervision of the Court.
527. Appointment in certain cases of voluntary liquidators to office of liquidators. Where an order has been made for winding up a company subject to supervision, and an order is afterwards made for winding up by the Court, the Court may, by the last- mentioned or any subsequent order, appoint any person or persons who are then liquidators, either provisionally or permanently, to be liquidator or liquidators
1\. Ins. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 182.
in the winding up by the Court in addition to, and subject to the control of,
the Official Liquidator. CHAP PROVISIONS APPLICABLE TO EVERY MODE OF WINDING
UP CHAPTER V.- PROVISIONS APPLICABLE TO EVERY MODE OF WINDING UP Proof and
ranking of claims
528. Debts of all descriptions to be admitted to proof. In every winding up (subject, in the case of insolvent companies, to the application in accordance with the provisions of this Act of the law of insolvency), all debts payable on a contingency, and all claims against the company, present or future, certain or contingent, ascertained or sounding only in damages, shall be admissible to proof against the company, a just estimate being made, so far as possible, of the value of such debts or claims as may be subject to any contingency, or may sound only in damages, or for some other reason may not bear a certain value.
529. Application of insolvency rules in winding up of insolvent companies.
(1) In the winding up of an insolvent company, the same rules shall prevail
and be observed with regard to-
(a) debts provable;
(b) the valuation of annuities and future and contingent liabilities; and
(c) the respective rights of secured and unsecured creditors; as are in force
for the time being under the law of insolvency with respect to the estates of
persons adjudged insolvent: 1 Provided that the security of every secured
creditor shall be deemed to be subject to a pari passu charge in favour of the
workmen to the extent of the workmen' s portion therein, and, where a secured
creditor, instead of relinquishing his security and proving his debt, opts to
realise his security,-
(a) the liquidator shall be entitled to represent the workmen and enforce such
charge;
(b) any amount realised by the liquidator by way of enforcement of such charge
shall be applied ratably for the discharge of workmen' s dues; and
(c) so much of the debt due to such secured creditor as could not be realised
by him by virtue of the foregoing provisions of this proviso or the amount of
the workmen' s portion in his security, whichever is less, shall rank pari
passu with the workmen' s dues for the purposes of section 529A.]
(2) All persons who in any such case would be entitled to prove for and
receive dividends out of the assets of the company, may come in under the
winding up, and make such claims against the company as they respectively are
entitled to make by virtue of this section, 2 Provided that if a secured
creditor instead of relinquishing his security and proving for his debt
proceeds to realise his security, he shall be liable to 3 pay his portion of
the expenses] incurred by the liquidator (including a provisional liquidator,
if any) for the preservation of the security before its realization by the
secured creditor.] 1 Explanation.- For the purposes of this proviso, the
portion of expenses incurred by the liquidator for the preservation of a
security which the secured creditor shall be liable to pay shall be the whole
of the expenses less amount which bears to such expenses the same proportion
as the workmen' s portion in relation to the security bears to the value of
the security.]
(3) 1 For the purposes of this section, section 529A and section 530,-
(a) " workmen", in relation to a company, means the employees of the company,
being workmen within the meaning of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of
1947 );
(b) " workmen' s dues", in relation to a company, means the aggregate of the
following sums due from the company to its workmen, namely:-
(i) all wages or salary including wages payable for time or piece work and
salary earned wholly or in part by way of commission of any workman, in
respect of services rendered to the company and any compensation payable to
any workman under any of the provisions of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947
(14 of 1947 );
(ii) all accrued holiday remuneration becoming payable to any workman, or in
the case of his death to any other person in his right, on the termination of
his employment before, or by the effect of, the winding up order or
resolution;
(iii) unless the company is being wound up voluntarily merely for the purposes
of reconstruction or of amalgamation with another company, or unless the
company has, at the commencement of the winding up, under such contract with
insurers as is mentioned in section 14 the Workmen' s Compensation Act, 1923
(8 of 1923 ), rights capable of being transferred to and vested in the
workman, all amounts due in respect of any compensation or liability for
compensation under the said Act in res- pect of the death or disablement of
any workman of the company;
(iv) all sums due to any workman from a provident fund, a pension fund, a
gratuity fund or any other fund for the welfare of the workmen, maintained by
the company;
(c) " workmen' s portion", in relation to the security of any secured creditor
of a company, means the amount which bears to the value of the security the
same proportion as the amount of the workmen' s dues bears to the aggregate
of-
(i) the amount of workmen' s dues; and
(ii) the amounts of the debts due to the secured creditors. Illustration The
value of the security of a secured creditor of a company is Rs. 1, 00, 000.
The total amount of the workmen' s dues is Rs. 1, 00, 000. The amount of the
debts due from the company to its secured creditors is Rs. 3, 00, 000. The
aggregate of the amount of workmen' s dues and of the amounts of debts due to
secured creditors is Rs. 4, 00, 000. The workmen' s portion of the security
is, therefore, one- fourth of the value of the security, that is Rs. 25, 000.]
Overriding preferential payment.
529A. 4 Overriding preferential payment. Notwithstanding anything contained in
any other provision of this Act or any other law for the time being in force
in the winding up of a company-
(a) workmen' s dues; and
(b) debts due to secured creditors to the extent such debts rank under clause
(c) of the proviso to sub- section (1) of section 529 pari passu with such
dues, shall be paid in priority to all other debts.
(2) The debts payable under clause (a) and clause (b) of sub- section (1)
shall be paid in full, unless the assets are insufficient to meet them, in
which case they shall abate in equal proportions.]
530. Preferential payments.
(1) In a winding up, 5 subject to the provisions of section 529A, there shall
be paid] in priority to all other debts-
(a) all revenues, taxes, cesses and rates due from the company to the Central
or a State Government or to a local autho-
1\. Ins. by Act 35 of 1985, s. 4.
2\. Ins. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 183.
3\. Subs. by s. 4, ibid.
4\. Ins. by s. 5, ibid.
5\. Subs. by s. 6, ibid.
rity at the relevant date as defined in clause (c) of sub- section (8), and
having become due and payable within the twelve months next before that date;
(b) all wages or salary (including wages payable for time or piece work and
salary earned wholly or in part by way of commission) of any employee, in
respect of services rendered to the company and due for a period not exceeding
four months within the twelve months next before the relevant date 1 subject
to the limit specified in sub- section (2);
(c) all accrued holiday remuneration becoming payable to any employee, or in
the case of his death to any other person in his right, on the termination of
his employment before, or by the effect of, the winding up order or
resolution;
(d) unless the company is being wound up voluntarily merely for the purposes
of reconstruction or of amalgamation with another company, all amounts due, in
respect of contributions payable during the twelve months next before the
relevant date, by the company as the employer of any persons, under the
Employees' State Insurance Act, 1948 (34 of 1948 .) or any other law for the
time being in force;
(e) unless the company is being wound up voluntarily merely for the purposes
of reconstruction or of amalgamation with another company, or unless the
company has, at the commencement of the winding up, under such a contract with
insurers as is mentioned in section 14 of the Workmen' s Compensation Act,
1923 , (8 of 1923 .) rights capable of being transferred to and vested in the
workman, all amounts due in respect of any compensation or liability for
compensation under the said Act in respect of the death or disablement of any
employee of the company;
(f) all sums due to any employee from a provident fund, a pension fund a
gratuity fund- or any other fund for the welfare of the employees, maintained
by the company; and
(g) the expenses of any investigation held in pursuance of section 235 or 237,
in so far as they are payable by the company.
1\. Omitted by Act 35 of 1985, s. 6.
(2) The sum to which priority is to be given under clause (b) of sub- section
(1), shall not, in the case of any one claimant, exceed one thousand rupees. 1
(3) Where any compensation under the Workmen' s Compensation Act, 1923 (8 of
1923 ) is a weekly payment, the amount due in respect thereof shall, for the
purposes of clause (e) of sub- section (1), be taken to be the amount of the
lump sum for which the weekly payment could, if redeemable, be redeemed if the
employer made an application for that purpose under the said Act.
(4) Where any payment has been made to any employee of a company,-
(i) on account of wages or salary; or
(ii) to him, or in the case of his death, to any other person in his right, on
account of accrued holiday remuneration, out of money advanced by some person
for that purpose, the person by whom the money was advanced shall, in a
winding up, have a right of priority in respect of the money so advanced and
paid, up to the amount by which the sum in respect of which the employee or
other person in his right, would have been entitled to priority in the winding
up has been diminished by reason of the payment having been made.
(5) The foregoing debts shall-
(a) rank equally among themselves and be paid in full, unless the assets are
insufficient to meet them, in which case they shall abate in equal
proportions; and
(b) so far as the assets of the company available for payment of general
creditors are insufficient to meet them, have priority over the claims of
holders of debentures under any floating charge created by the company, and be
paid accordingly out of any property comprised in or subject to that charge.
(6) Subject to the retention of such sums as may be necessary for the costs
and expenses of the winding up, the foregoing debts shall be discharged
forthwith so far as the assets are sufficient to
1\. Omitted by Act 35 of 1985, s. 6
meet them, and in the case of the debts to which priority is given by clause
(d) of sub- section (1), formal proof thereof shall not be required except in
so far as may be otherwise prescribed.
(7) In the event of a landlord or other person distraining or having
distrained on any goods or effects of the company within three months next
before the date of a winding up order, the debts to which priority is given by
this section shall be a first charge on the goods or effects so distrained on,
or the proceeds of the sale thereof: Provided that, in respect of any money
paid under any such charge, the landlord or other person shall have the same
rights of priority as the person to whom the payment is made.
(8) For the purposes of this section-
(a) any remuneration in respect of a period of holiday or of absence from work
through sickness or other good cause shall be deemed to be wages in respect of
services rendered to the company during that period;
(b) the expression" accrued holiday remuneration" includes, in relation to any
person, all sums which, by virtue either of his contract of employment or of
any enactment (including any order made or direction given under any
enactment), are payable on account of the remuneration which would, in the
ordinary course, have become payable to him in respect of a period of holiday,
had his employment with the company continued until he became entitled to be
allowed the holiday 1 .
(bb) 2 the expression" employee" does not include a workman;] and
(c) the expression" the relevant date" means-
(i) in the case of a company ordered to be wound up compulsorily, the date of
the appointment (or first ap- pointment) of a provisional liquidator, or if no
such appointment was made, the date of the winding up order, unless in either
case the company had commenced to be wound up voluntarily before that date;
and
(ii) in any case where sub- clause (i) does not apply, the date of the passing
of the resolution for the volun- tary winding up of the company.
(9) This section shall not apply in the case of a winding up where the date
referred to in sub- section (5) of section 230 of the Indian Companies Act,
1913 , (7 of 1913 .) occurred before the commencement of this Act, and in such
a case, the provisions relating to preferential payments which would have
applied if this Act had not been passed, shall be deemed to remain in full
force.
1\. Omitted by Act 35 of 1985, s. 6.
2\. Ins. by s. 6, ibid.
Effect of winding up on antecedent and other transactions
531. Frudulent preference.
(1) Any transfer of property, movable or immovable, delivery of goods,
payment, execution or other act relating to property made, taken or done by or
against a company within six months before the commencement of its winding up
which, had it been made, taken or done by or against an individual within
three months before the presentation of an insolvency petition on which he is
adjudged insolvent, would be deemed in his insolvency a fraudulent preference,
shall in the event of the company being wound up, be deemed a fraudulent
preference of its creditors and be invalid accordingly: Provided that, in
relation to things made, taken or done before the commencement of this Act,
this sub- section shall have effect with the substitution, for the reference
to six months, of a reference to three months.
(2) For the purposes of sub- section (1), the presentation of a petition for
winding up in the case of a winding up by or subject to the supervision of the
Court, and the passing of a resolution for winding up in the case of a
voluntary winding up, shall be deemed to correspond to the act of insolvency
in the case of an individual.
Avoidance of voluntary transfer.
531A. 1 Avoidance of voluntary transfer. Any transfer of property, movable or
immovable, or any delivery of goods, made by a company, not being a transfer
or delivery made in the ordinary course of its business or in favour of a
purchaser or encumbrancer in good faith and for valuable consideration, if
made within a period of one year before the presentation of a petition for
winding up by or subject to the supervision of the Court or the passing of a
resolution for voluntary winding up of the company, shall be void against the
liquidator.]
532. Transfer for benefit of all creditors to be void. Any transfer or assignment by a company of all its property to trustees for the benefit of all its creditors shall be void.
533. Liabilities and rights of certain fraudulently preferred persons.
(1) Where. in the case of a company which is being wound up, anything made,
taken or done after the commencement of this Act is invalid under section 531
as a fraudulent preference of a person interested in property mortgaged or
charged to secure the company' s debt, then (without prejudice to any rights
or liabilities arising apart from this provision), the person preferred shall
be subject to the same liabilities, and shall have the same rights, as if he
had undertaken to be personally liable as surety for the debt, to the extent
of the mort-
1\. Ins. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 185.
gage or charge on the property or the value of his interest, whichever is
less.
(2) The value of the said person' s interest shall be determined as at the
date of the transaction constituting the fraudulent preference, and shall be
determined as if the interest were free of all encumbrances other than those
to which the mortgage or charge for the company' s debt was then subject.
(3) On any application made to the Court with respect to any payment on the
ground that the payment was a fraudulent preference of a surety or guarantor,
the Court shall have jurisdiction to determine any questions with respect to
the payment arising between the person to whom the payment was made and the
surety or guarantor and to grant relief in respect thereof, notwithstanding
that it is not necessary so to do for the purposes of the winding up, and for
that purpose may give leave to bring in the surety or guarantor as a third
party as in the case of a suit for the recovery of the sum paid. This sub-
section shall apply, with the necessary modifications, in relation to
transactions other than the payment of money as it applies in relation to
payments of money.
534. Effect of floating charge. Where a company is being wound up, a floating charge on the undertaking or property of the company created within the twelve months immediately preceding the commencement of the winding up, shall, unless it is proved that the company immediately after the creation of the charge was solvent, be invalid, except to the amount of any cash paid to the company at the time of, or subsequently to the creation of, and in consideration for, the charge, together with interest on that amount at the rate of five per cent. per annum or such other rate as may for the time being be notified by the Central Government in this behalf in the Official Gazette: Provided that in relation to a charge created more than three months before the commencement of this Act, this section shall have effect with the substitution, for references to twelve months of references to three months.
535. Disclaimer of onerous property in case of a company which is being wound up.
(1) Where any part of the property of a company which is being wound up
consists of-
(a) land of any tenure, burdened with onerous covenants;
(b) shares or stock in companies;
(c) any other property which is unsaleable or is not readily saleable, by
reason of its binding the possessor thereof
either to the performance of any onerous act or to the payment of any sum of
money; or
(d) unprofitable contracts; the liquidator of the company, notwithstanding
that he has endeavoured to sell or has taken possession of the property, or
exercised any act of ownership in relation thereto, or done anything in
pursuance of the contract, may, with the leave of the Court and subject to the
provisions of this section, by writing signed by him, at any time within
twelve months after the commencement of the winding up or such extended period
as may be allowed by the Court, disclaim the property: Provided that, where
any such property has not come to the knowledge of the liquidator within one
month after the commencement of the winding up, the power of disclaiming the
property may be exercised at any time within twelve months after he has become
aware thereof or such extended period as may be allowed by the Court.
(2) The disclaimer shall operate to determine, as from the date of disclaimer,
the rights, interest, and liabilities of the company, and the property of the
company, in or in respect of the property disclaimed, but shall not, except so
far as is necessary for the pur- pose of releasing the company and the
property of the company from liability, affect the rights or liabilities of
any other person.
(3) The Court, before or on granting leave to disclaim, may re- quire such
notices to be given to persons interested, and impose such terms as a
condition of granting leave, and make such other order in the matter as the
Court thinks just.
(4) The liquidator shall not be entitled to disclaim any property in any case
where an application in writing has been made to him by any person interested
in the property requiring him to decide whether he will or will not disclaim,
and the liquidator has not, within a period of twenty- eight days after the
receipt of the application or such extended period as may be allowed by the
Court, given notice to the applicant that he intends to apply to the Court for
leave to disclaim; and in case the property is a contract, if the liquidator,
after such an application as aforesaid, does not within the said period or
extended period disclaim the contract, 1 he shall be deemed to have adopted
it].
1\. Subs. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 186, for" the company shall be deemed to have
adopted it".
(5) The Court may, on the application of any person who is, as against the
liquidator, entitled to the benefit or subject to the burden of a contract
made with the company, make an order rescinding the contract on such terms as
to payment by or to either party of damages for the non- performance of the
contract, or otherwise as the Court thinks just; and any damages payable under
the order to any such person may be proved by him as a debt in the winding up.
(6) The Court may, on an application by any person who either claims any
interest in any disclaimed property or is under any liabi- lity not discharged
by this Act in respect of any disclaimed property, and after hearing any such
persons as it thinks fit, make an order for the vesting of the property in, or
the delivery of the property to, any person entitled thereto or to whom it may
seem just that the property should be delivered by way of compensation for
such liability as aforesaid, or a trustee for him, and on such terms as the
Court thinks just; and on any such vesting order being made, the property
comprised therein shall vest accordingly in the person therein named in that
behalf without any conveyance or assignment for the purpose: Provided that,
where the property disclaimed is of a lease- hold nature, the Court shall not
make a vesting order in favour of any person claiming under the company,
whether as under- lessee or as mortgagee or holder of a charge by way of
demise, except upon the terms of making that person-
(a) subject to the same liabilities and obligations as those to which the
company was subject under the lease in respect of the property at the
commencement of the winding up; or
(b) if the Court thinks fit, subject only to the same liabilities and
obligations as if the lease had been assigned to that person at that date; and
in either event (if the case so requires) as if the lease had com- prised only
the property comprised in the vesting order; and any mortgagee or under-
lessee declining to accept a vesting order upon such terms shall be excluded
from all interest in and security upon the property, and, if there is no
person claiming under the company who is willing to accept an order upon such
terms, the Court shall have power to vest the estate and interest of the
company in the property in any person liable, either personally or in a
represen- tative character, and either alone or jointly with the company, to
perform the lessee' s covenants in the lease, freed and discharged from all
estates, encumbrances and interests created therein by the company.
(7) Any person injured by the operation of a disclaimer under this section
shall be deemed to be a creditor of the company to the amount of the
compensation or damages payable in respect of the injury, and may accordingly
prove the amount as a debt in the winding up.
536. Avoidance of transfers, etc., after commencement of winding up.
(1) In the case of a voluntary winding up, any transfer of shares in the
company, not being a transfer made to or with the sanction of the liquidator,
and any alteration in the status of the members of the company, made after the
commencement of the winding up, shall be void.
(2) In the case of a winding up by or subject to the supervision of the Court,
any disposition of the property (including actionable claims) of the company,
and any transfer of shares in the company or alteration in the status of its
members, made after the commencement of the winding up, shall, unless the
Court otherwise orders, be void.
537. Avoidance of certain attachments, executions, etc., in winding up by or subject to supervision of Court.
(1) Where any company is being wound up by or subject to the supervision of
the Court-
(a) any attachment, distress or execution put in force, without leave of the
Court, against the estate or effects of the company, after the commencement of
the winding up; or
(b) any sale held, without leave of the Court, of any of the properties or
effects of the company after such com- mencement; shall be void.
(2) 1 Nothing in this section applies to any proceedings for the recovery of
any tax or impost or any dues payable to the Government.] Offences antecedent
to or in course of winding up
538. Offences by officers of companies in liquidation.
(1) If any person, being a past or present officer of a company, which, at the
time of the commission of the alleged offence, is being wound up, whether by
or subject to the supervision of the Court or voluntarily, or which is
subsequently ordered to be wound
1\. Subs. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 187, for sub- section (2).
up by the Court or which subsequently passes a resolution for volun- tary
winding up,-
(a) does not, to the best of his knowledge and belief, fully and truly
discover to the liquidator all the property, movable and immovable, of the
company, and how and to whom and for what consideration and when the company
disposed of any part thereof, except such part as has been disposed of in the
ordinary course of the business of the company;
(b) does not deliver up to the liquidator, or as he directs, all such part of
the movable and immovable property of the company as is in his custody or
under his control, and which he is required by law to deliver up;
(c) does not deliver up to the liquidator, or as he directs, all such books
and papers of the company as are in his custody or under his control and which
he is required by law to deliver up;
(d) within the twelve months next before the commencement of the winding up or
at any time thereafter, conceals any part of the property of the company to
the value of one hundred rupees or upwards, or conceals any debt due to or
from the company;
(e) within the twelve months next before the commencement of the winding up or
at any time thereafter, fraudulently removes any part of the property of the
company to the value of one hundred rupees or upwards;
(f) makes any material omission in any statement relating to the affairs of
the company;
(g) knowing or believing that a false debt has been proved by any person under
the winding up, fails for a period of one month to inform the liquidator
thereof;
(h) after the commencement of the winding up, prevents the production of any
book or paper affecting or relating to the property or affairs of the company;
(i) within the twelve months next before the commencement of the winding up or
at any time thereafter, conceals, destroys, mutilates or falsifies, or is
privy to the con- cealment, destruction, mutilation or falsification of, any
book or paper affecting or relating to, the property or affairs of the
company;
(j) within the twelve months next before the commencement of the winding up or
at any time thereafter makes, or is privy to the making of, any false entry in
any book or paper affecting or relating to, the property or affairs of the
company;
(k) within the twelve months next before the commencement of the winding up or
at any time thereafter, fraudulently parts with, alters or makes any omission
in, or is privy to the fraudulent parting with, altering or making of any
omission in, any book or paper affecting or relating to the property or
affairs of the company;
(l) after the commencement of the winding up or at any meeting of the
creditors of the company within the twelve months next before the commencement
of the winding up, attempts to account for any part of the property of the
company by fictitious losses or expenses;
(m) within the twelve months next before the commencement of the winding up or
at any time thereafter, by any false representation or other fraud, obtains on
credit, for or on behalf of the company, any property which the company does
not subsequently pay for;
(n) within the twelve months next before the commencement of the winding up or
at any time thereafter, under the false pretence that the company is carrying
on its business, obtains on credit, for or on behalf of the company, any
property which the company does not subsequently pay for;
(o) within the twelve months next before the commencement of the winding up or
at any time thereafter, pawns, pledges or disposes of any property of the
company which has been obtained on credit and has not been paid for, unless
such pawning, pledging or disposing is in the ordinary course of the business
of the company; or
(p) is guilty of any false representation or other fraud for the purpose of
obtaining the consent of the creditors of the company or any of them, to an
agreement with reference to the affairs of the company or to the winding up;
he shall be punishable, in the case of any of the offences mentioned in
clauses (m), (n) and (o), with imprisonment for a term which may extend to
five years, or with fine, or with both, and, in the case of
any other offence, with imprisonment for a term which may extend to two years,
or with fine, or with both: Provided that it shall be a good defence-
(i) to a charge under any of the clauses, (b), (c), (d), (f), (n) and (o), if
the accused proves that he had no intent to defraud; and
(ii) to a charge under any of the clauses, (a), (h), (i) and if he proves that
he had no intent to conceal the true state of affairs of the company or to
defeat the law.
(2) Where any person pawns, pledges or disposes of any property in
circumstances which amount to an offence under clause (o) of sub- section (1),
every person who takes in pawn or pledge or otherwise receives the property,
knowing it to be pawned, pledged, or disposed of in such circumstances as
aforesaid, shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend
to three years, or with fine, or with both.
(3) For the purposes of this section, the expression" officer" shall include
any person in accordance with whose directions or instructions the directors
of the company have been accustomed to act.
539. Penalty for falsification of books. If with intent to defraud or deceive any person, any officer or contributory of a company which is being wound up-
(a) destroys, mutilates, alters, falsifies or secretes, or is privy to the
destruction, mutilation, alteration, falsification or secreting of, any books,
papers or securities; or
(b) makes, or is privy to the making of, any false or fraudulent entry in any
register, book of account or document belonging to the company; he shall be
punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to seven years, and
shall also be liable to fine.
540. Penalty for frauds by officers. If any person, being at the time of the commission of the alleged offence an officer of a company which is subsequently ordered to be wound up by the Court or which subsequently passes a resolution for voluntary winding up,-
(a) has, by false pretences or by means of any other fraud, induced any person
to give credit to the company; or
(b) with intent to defraud creditors of the company, has made or caused to be
made any gift or transfer of or charge
on, or has caused or connived at the levying of any exe- cution against, the
property of the company; or
(c) with intent to defraud creditors of the company, has concealed or removed
any part of the property of the company since the date of any unsatisfied
judgment or order for payment of money obtained against the company, or within
two months before that date; he shall be punishable with imprisonment for a
term which may extend to two years and shall also be liable to fine.
541. Liability where proper accounts not kept.
(1) Where a company is being wound up, if it is shown that proper books of
account were not kept by the company throughout the period of two years
immediately preceding the commencement of the winding up, or the period
between the incorporation of the company and the commencement of the winding
up, whichever is shorter, every officer of the company who is in default
shall, unless he shows that he acted honestly and that in the circumstances in
which the business of the company was carried on, the default was excusable,
be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to one year.
(2) For the purposes of sub- section (1), it shall be deemed that proper books
of account have not been kept in the case of any company, if there have not
been kept--
(a) such books or accounts as are necessary to exhibit and explain the
transactions and financial position of the business of the company, including
books containing entries made from day to day in sufficient detail of all cash
received and all cash paid; and
(b) where the business of the company has involved dealings in goods,
statements of the annual stocktakings and (except in the case of goods sold by
way of ordinary retail trade) of all goods sold and purchased, showing the
goods and the buyers and sellers thereof in sufficient detail to enable those
goods and those buyers and sellers to be identified.
542. Liability for fraudulent conduct of business.
(1) If in the course of the winding up of a company, it appears that any
business of the company has been carried on, with intent to defraud creditors
of the company or any other persons or for any fraudulent purpose, the Court,
on the application of the Official Liquidator, or the liquidator or any
creditor or contributory of.
the company, may, if it thinks it proper so to do, declare that any persons
who were knowingly parties to the carrying on of the business in the manner
aforesaid shall be personally responsible, without any limitation of
liability, for all or any of the debts or other liabilities of the company as
the Court may direct. On the hearing of an application under this sub-
section, the Official Liquidator or the liquidator, as the case may be, may
himself give evidence or call witnesses.
(2) (a) Where the Court makes any such declaration, it may give such further
directions as it thinks proper for the purpose of giving effect to that
declaration.
(b) In particular, the Court may make provision for making the liability of
any such person under the declaration a charge on any debt or obligation due
from the company to him, or on any mortgage or charge or any interest in any
mortgage or charge on any assets of the company held by or vested in him, or
any person on his behalf, or any person claiming as assignee from or through
the person liable or any person acting on his behalf.
(c) The Court may, from time to time, make such further order as may be
necessary for the purpose of enforcing any charge imposed under this sub-
section.
(d) For the purpose of this sub- section, the expression" assignee" includes
any person to whom or in whose favour, by the directions of the person liable,
the debt, obligation, mortgage or charge was created, issued or transferred or
the interest was created, but does not include an assignee for valuable
consideration (not including consideration by way of marriage) given in good
faith and without notice of any of the matters on the ground of which the
declaration is made.
(3) Where any business of a company is carried on with such intent or for such
purpose as is mentioned in sub- section (1), every person who was knowingly a
party to the carrying on of the business in the manner aforesaid, shall be
punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to two years, or with
fine which may extend to five thousand rupees, or with both.
(4) This section shall apply, notwithstanding that the person concerned may be
criminally liable in respect of the matters on the ground of which the
declaration is to be made.
543. Power of Court to assess damages against delinquent directors, etc.
(1) If in the course of winding up a company, it appears that any person who
has taken part in the promotion or formation
of the company, or any past or present director, managing agent, sec- retaries
and treasurers, manager, liquidator or officer of the company-
(a) has misapplied, or retained, or become liable or accountable for, any
money or property of the company; or
(b) has been guilty of any misfeasance or breach of trust in relation to the
company; the Court may, on the application of the Official Liquidator, of the
liquidator, or of any creditor or contributory, made within the time specified
in that behalf in sub- section (2), examine into the conduct of the person,
director, managing agent, secretaries and treasurers, manager, liquidator or
officer aforesaid, and compel him to repay or restore the money or property or
any part thereof respectively, with interest at such rate as the Court thinks
just, or to contribute such sum to the assets of the company by way of
compensation in respect of the misapplication, retainer, misfeasance or breach
of trust, as the Court thinks just.
(2) An application under sub- section (1) shall be made within five years from
the date of the order for winding up, or of the first appointment of the
liquidator in the winding up, or of the misapplica- tion, retainer,.
misfeasance or breach of trust, as the case may be, whichever is longer.
(3) This section shall apply notwithstanding that the matter is one for which
the person concerned may be criminally liable.
544. Liability under sections 542 and 543 to extend to partners or directors in firm or company. Where a declaration under section 542 or an order under section 543 is or may be made in respect of a firm or body corporate, the Court shall also have power to make a declaration under section 542, or pass an order under section 543, as the case may be, in respect of any person who was at the relevant time a partner in that firm or a director of that body corporate.
545. Prosecution of delinquent officers and members of company.
(1) If it appears to the Court in the course of a winding up by, or subject to
the supervision of, the Court, that any past or present officer, or any
member, of the company has been guilty of any offence in relation to the
company, the Court may, either on the application of any person interested in
the winding up or of its own motion, direct the liquidator either himself to
prosecute the offender or to refer the matter to the Registrar.
(2) If it appears to the liquidator in the course of a voluntary winding up
that any past or present officer, or any member, of the company has been
guilty of any offence in relation to the company,
he shall forthwith report the matter to the Registrar and shall furnish to him
such information and give to him such access to and facilities for inspecting
and taking copies of any books and papers, being information or books and
papers in the possession or under the control of the liquidator and relating
to the matter in question, as the Registrar may require.
(3) Where any report is made under sub- section (2) to the Regis- trar, he
may, if he thinks fit, refer the matter to the Central Government for further
inquiry. The Central Government shall thereupon investigate the matter and
may, if it thinks it expedient, apply to the Court for an order conferring on
any person designated by the Central Government for the purpose, with respect
to the company concerned, all such powers of investigating the affairs of the
company as are provided by this Act in the case of a winding up by the Court.
(4) If on any report to the Registrar under sub- section (2), it appears to
him that the case is not one in which proceedings ought to be taken by him, he
shall inform the liquidator accordingly, and thereupon, subject to the
previous sanction of the Court, the liquida- tor may himself take proceedings
against the offender.
(5) If it appears to the Court in the course of a voluntary winding up that
any past or present officer, or any member, of the company has been guilty as
aforesaid, and that no report with respect to the matter has been made by the
liquidator to the Registrar under sub- section (2), the Court may, on the
application of any person interested in the winding up or of its own motion,
direct the liquidator to make such a report, and on a report being made
accordingly, the provisions of this section shall have effect as though the
report had been made in pursuance of the provisions of sub- section (2).
(6) If, where any matter is reported or referred to the Registrar under this
section, he considers that the case is one in which a prosecution ought to be
instituted, he shall report the matter to the Central Government; and that
Government may, after taking such legal advice as it thinks fit, direct the
Registrar to institute proceedings: Provided that no report shall be made by
the Registrar under this sub- section without first giving the accused person
an opportunity of making a statement in writing to the Registrar and of being
heard thereon.
(7) When any proceedings are instituted under this section, it shall be the
duty of the liquidator and of every officer and agent of the
company past and present (other than the defendant in the proceedings) to give
all assistance in connection with the prosecution which he is reasonably able
to give. For the purposes of this sub- section, the expression" agent", in
relation to a company, shall be deemed to include any banker or legal adviser
of the company and any person employed by the company as auditor.
(8) If any person fails or neglects to give assistance in the manner required
by sub- section (7), the Court may, on the application of the Registrar,
direct that person to comply with the requirements of that sub- section.
(9) Where any such application is made with respect to a liquidator, the Court
may, unless it appears that the failure or neglect was due to the liquidator
not having in his hands sufficient assets of the company to enable him so to
do, direct that the costs of the application shall be borne by the liquidator
personally. Miscellaneous Provisions
546. Liquidator to exercise certain powers subject to sanction.
(1) The liquidator may-
(a) with the sanction of the Court, when the company is being wound up by or
subject to the supervision of the Court; and
(b) with the sanction of a special resolution of the company, in the case of a
voluntary winding up,-
(i) pay any classes of creditors in full;
(ii) make any compromise or arrangement with creditors or persons claiming to
be creditors, or having or alleging themselves to have any claim, present or
future, certain or contingent, ascertained or sounding only in damages,
against the company, or whereby the company may be rendered liable; or
(iii) compromise any call or liability to call, debt, and liability capable of
resulting in a debt, and any claim, present or future, certain or contingent,
ascertained or sounding only in damages, subsisting or alleged to subsist
between the company and a contributory or alleged contributory or other debtor
or person apprehending liability to the company, and all questions in any way
relating to or affecting the assets or liabilities or the winding up of the
company, on such terms as may be agreed, and take
any security for the discharge of any such call, debt, liability or claim, and
give a complete discharge in respect thereof.
(1A) 1 Notwithstanding anything contained in sub- section (1), in the case of
a winding up by the Court, the Supreme Court may make rules under section 643
providing that the liquidator may, under such circumstances, if any, and
subject to such conditions, restrictions and limitations, if any, as may be
specified in the rules, exercise any of the powers referred to in sub- clause
(ii) or sub- clause (iii) of sub- section (1) without the sanction of the
Court.]
(2) In the case of a voluntary winding up, the exercise by the liquidator of
the powers conferred by sub- section (1) shall be subject to the control of
the Court.
(3) Any creditor or contributory may apply to the Court with respect to any
exercise or proposed exercise of any such power.
547. Notification that a company is in liquidation.
(1) Where a company is being wound up, whether by or under the supervision of
the court or voluntarily, every invoice, order for goods or business letter
issued by or on behalf of the company or a liquidator of the company, or a
receiver or manager of the property of the company, being a document on or in
which the name of the company appears, shall contain a statement that the
company is being wound up.
(2) If default is made in complying with this section, the com- pany, and
every one of the following persons who wilfully authorises or permits the
default, namely, any officer of the company, any liqui- dator of the company
and any receiver or manager, shall be punishable with fine which may extend to
five hundred rupees.
548. Books and papers of company to be evidence. Where a company is being wound up, all books and papers of the company and of the liquidators shall, as between the contributories of the company, be prima facie evidence of the truth of all matters purporting to be therein recorded.
549. Inspection of books and papers by creditors and contributories.
(1) At any time after the making of an order for the winding up of a company
by or subject to the supervision of the Court, any creditor or contributory of
the company may, if 2 the Supreme Court], by rules prescribed so permit and in
accordance with and subject to such rules but not further or otherwise,
inspect the books and papers of the company.
1\. Ins. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 188.
2\. Subs. by s. 189, ibid., for" the Central Government".
(2) Nothing in sub- section (1) shall be taken as excluding or restricting any
rights conferred by any law for the time being in force-
(a) on the Central or a State Government; or
(b) on any authority or officer thereof; or
(c) on any person acting under the authority of any such Government or of any
such authority or officer.
550. Disposal of books and papers of company.
(1) When the affairs of a company have been completely wound up and it is
about to be dissolved, its books and papers and those of the liquidator may be
disposed of as follows, that is to say:-
(a) in the case of a winding up by or subject to the supervision of the Court,
in such manner as the Court directs;
(b) in the case of a members' voluntary winding up, in such manner as the
company by special resolution directs; and
(c) in the case of a creditors' voluntary winding up, in such manner as the
committee of inspection or, if there is no such committee. as the creditors of
the company may direct.
(2) After the expiry of five years from the dissolution of the company, no
responsibility shall rest on the company, the liquidator, or any person to
whom the custody of the books and papers has been committed, by reason of any
book or paper not being forthcoming to any person claiming to be interested
therein.
(3) The Central Government may, by rules,-
(a) prevent for such period (not exceeding five years from the dissolution of
the company) as the Central Government thinks proper, the destruction of the
books and papers of a company which has been wound up and of its liquidator;
and
(b) enable any creditor or contributory of the company to make representations
to the Central Government in respect of the matters specified in clause (a)
and to appeal to the Court from any direction which may be given by the
Central Government in the matter.
(4) If any person acts in contravention of any such rules or of any direction
of the Central Government thereunder, he shall be punishable with imprisonment
for a term which may extend to six months, or with fine which may extend to
five thousand rupees, or with both.
551. Information as to pending liquidations. 1
(1) If the winding up of a company is not concluded within one year after its
commencement, the liquidator shall, unless he is exempted from so doing either
wholly or in part by the Central Government, within two months of the expiry
of such year and thereafter until the winding up is concluded, at intervals of
not more than one year or at such shorter intervals, if any, as may be
prescribed, file a statement in the prescribed form and containing the
prescribed particulars duly audited, by a person qualified to act as auditor
of the company, with respect to the proceedings in, and position of, the
liquidation,-
(a) in the case of a winding up by or subject to the supervision of the Court,
in Court; and
(b) in the case of a voluntary winding up, with the Registrar: Provided that
no such audit as is referred to in this sub- section shall be necessary where
the provisions of section 462 apply.]
(2) When the statement is filed in Court under clause (a) of sub- section (1),
a copy shall simultaneously be filed with the Registrar and shall be kept by
him along with the other records of the company.
(2A) 2 Where a statement referred to in sub- section (2) relates to a
Government company in liquidation, the liquidator shall forward a copy
thereof,-
(a) to the Central Government, if that Government is a member of the
Government company; or
(b) to any State Government, if that Government is a member of the Government
company; or
(c) to the Central Government and any State Government, if both the
Governments are members of the Government com- pany.]
(3) Any person stating himself in writing to be a creditor or contributory of
the company shall be entitled, by himself or by his agent, at all reasonable
times, on payment of the prescribed fee, to inspect the statement, and to
receive a copy thereof or an extract therefrom.
(4) Any person untruthfully stating himself to be a creditor or contributory
for the above purpose shall be deemed to be guilty of an offence under section
182 of the Indian Penal Code, (45 of 1860 .) and shall, on the application of
the liquidator, be punishable accordingly.
(5) If a liquidator fails to comply with any of requirements of this section,
he shall be punishable with fine which may extend to five hundred rupees for
every day during which the failure continues: 3 Provided that if the
liquidator makes wilful default in causing the statement referred to in sub-
section (1) to be audited by a person qualified to act as auditor of the
company, the liquidator shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which
may extend to six
1\. Subs. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 190, for sub- section (1).
2\. Ins. by Act 31 of 1988, s. 56 (w. e. f. 15. 6. 1988 ).
3\. Added by s. 190, ibid.
months, or with fine which may extend to one thousand rupees, or with both.]
552. Official Liquidator to make payments into the public account of India. Every Official Liquidator shall, in such manner and at such times as may be pescribed, pay the moneys received by him as liqui- dator of any company, into the public account of India in the Reserve Bank of India.
553. Voluntary liquidator to make payments into Scheduled Bank.
(1) Every liquidator of a company, not being an Official Liquidator, shall, in
such manner and at such times as may be prescribed, pay the moneys received by
him in his capacity as such into a Scheduled Bank to the credit of a special
banking account opened by him in that behalf, and called" the Liquidation
Account of Company Limited" -------------------------
---------------------------- Company Private Limited":
------------------------- Company" Provided that if the Court is satisfied
that for the purpose of carrying on the business of the company or of
obtaining advances or for any other reason, it is to the advantage of the
creditors or contributories that the liquidator should have an account with
any other bank, the Court may authorise the liquidator to make his payments
into or out of such other bank as the Court may select; and thereupon those
payments shall be made in the prescribed manner and at the prescribed times
into or out of such other bank.
(2) If any such liquidator at any time retains for more than ten days a sum
exceeding five hundred rupees or such other amount as the Court may, on the
application of the liquidator, authorise him to retain, then, unless he
explains the retention to the satisfaction of the Court, he shall-
(a) pay interest on the amount so retained in excess, at the rate of twelve
per cent. per annum and also pay such penalty as may be determined by the
Registrar;
(b) be liable to pay any expenses occasioned by reason of his default; and
(c) also be liable to have all or such part of his remuneration as the Court
may think just disallowed, and to be removed from his office by the Court.
554. Liquidator not to pay moneys into private banking account. Neither the Official Liquidator nor any other liquidator of a company shall pay any moneys received by him in his capacity as such into any private banking account.
555. Unpaid dividends and undistributed assets to be paid into the Companies Liquidation Account. 1
(1) Where any company is being wound up, if the liquidator has in his hands or
under his control any money representing-
(a) dividends payable to any creditor which had remained unpaid for six months
after the date on which they were declared, or
(b) assets refundable to any contributory which have remained undistributed
for six months after the date on which they became refundable, the liquidator
shall forthwith pay the said money into the public account of India in the
Reserve Bank of India in a separate account to be known as the Company' s
Liquidation Account.]
(2) The liquidator shall, on the dissolution of the company, similarly pay
into the said account any money representing 2 unpaid] dividends or
undistributed assets in his hands at the date of dis- solution.
(3) The liquidator shall, when making any payment referred to in sub- sections
(1) and (2), furnish to such officer as the Central Government may appoint in
this behalf, a statement in the prescribed form, setting forth, in respect of
all sums included in such payment, the nature of the sums, the names and last
known addresses of the per- sons entitled to participate therein, the amount
to which each is entitled and the nature of his claim thereto, and such other
particulars as may be prescribed.
(4) The liquidator shall be entitled to a receipt from the Reserve Bank of
India for any money paid to it under sub- sections (1) and (2); and such
receipt shall be an effectual discharge of the liquidator in respect thereof.
(5) Where the company is being wound up by the Court, the liquidator shall
make the payments referred to in sub- sections (1) and (2) by transfer from
the account referred to in section 552.
(6) Where the company is being wound up voluntarily or subject to the
supervision of the Court, the liquidator shall, when filing a statement in
pursuance of sub- section (1) of section 551, indicate the sum of money which
is payable to the Reserve Bank of India
1\. Subs. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 191, for sub- section (1).
2\. Subs. by s. 191, ibid., for" unclaimed".
under sub- sections (1) and (2) of this section which he has had in his hands
or under his control during the six months preceding the date to which the
said statement is brought down, and shall, within fourteen days of the date of
filing the said statement, pay that sum into the Companies Liquidation
Account.
(7) (a) Any person claiming to be entitled to any money paid into the
Companies Liquidation Account (whether paid in pursuance of this section or
under the provisions of any previous companies law) may apply to the Court for
an order for payment thereof, and the Court, if satisfied that the person
claiming is entitled, may make an order for the payment to that person of the
sum due: Provided that before making such an order, the Court shall cause a
notice to be served on such officer as the Central Government may appoint in
this behalf, calling on the officer to show cause within one month from the
date of the service of the notice why the order should not be made.
(b) Any person claiming as aforesaid may, instead of applying to the Court,
apply to the Central Government for an order for payment of the money claimed;
and the Central Government may, if satisfied whether on a certificate by the
liquidator or the Official Liquidator or otherwise, that such person is
entitled to the whole or any part of the money claimed and that no application
made in pursuance of clause (a) is pending in the Court, make an order for the
payment to that person of the sum due to him, after taking such security from
him as it may think fit.
(8) Any money paid into the Companies Liquidation Account in pursuance of this
section, which remains unclaimed thereafter for a period of fifteen years,
shall be transferred to the general revenue account of the Central Government;
but a claim to any money so transferred may be preferred under sub- section
(7) and shall be dealt with as if such transfer had not been made, the order,
if any, for payment on the claim being treated as an order for refund of
revenue.
(9) Any liquidator retaining any money which should have been paid by him into
the Companies Liquidation Account under this section shall-
(a) pay interest on the amount retained at the rate of twelve per cent. per
annum, and also pay such penalty as may be determined by the Registrar: 1
Provided that the Central Government may in any proper case remit either in
part or in whole the amount of
1\. Ins. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 191.
interest which the liquidator is required to pay under this clause;]
(b) be liable to pay any expenses occasioned by reason of his default; and
(c) where the winding up is by or under the supervision of the Court, also be
liable to have all or such part of his remuneration as the Court may think
just to be disallowed, and to be removed from his office by the Court.
556. Enforcement of duty of liquidator to make returns, etc.
(1) If any liquidator who has made any default in filing. delivering or making
any return, account or other document, or in giving any notice which he is by
law required to file, deliver, make or give, fails to make good the default
within fourteen days after the service on him of a notice requiring him to do
so, the Court may, on an application made to the Court by any contributory or
creditor of the company or by the Registrar, make an order directing the
liquidator to make good the default within such time as may be specified in
the order.
(2) Any such order may provide that all costs of and incidental to the
application shall be borne by the liquidator.
(3) Nothing in this section shall be taken to prejudice the operation of any
enactment imposing penalties on a liquidator in respect of any such default as
aforesaid. Supplementary Powers of Court
557. Meetings to ascertain wishes of creditors or contributories.
(1) In all matters relating to the winding up of a company, the Court may-
(a) have regard to the wishes of creditors or contributories of the company,
as proved to it by any sufficient evidence;
(b) if it thinks fit for the purpose of ascertaining those wishes, direct
meetings of the creditors or contributories to be called, held and conducted
in such manner as the Court directs; and
(c) appoint a person to act as chairman of any such meeting and to report the
result thereof to the Court.
(2) When ascertaining the wishes of creditors, regard shall be had to the
value of each creditor' s debt.
(3) When ascertaining the wishes of contributories, regard shall be had to the
number of votes which may be cast by each contributory.
558. Court or person before whom affidavit may be sworn.
(1) Any affidavit required to be sworn under the provisions, or for the
purposes, of this Part may be sworn-
(a) in India, before any Court, Judge or person lawfully authorised to take
and receive affidavits; and
(b) in any other country, either before any Court, Judge or person lawfully
authorised to take and receive affidavits in that country or before an Indian
Consul or Vice Consul. 1
(2) All Courts, Judges, Justices, Commissioners and persons act- ing
judicially in India shall take judicial notice of the seal, stamp or
signature, as the case may be, of any such Court, Judge, person, Consul or
Vice- Consul, attached, appended or subscribed to any such affidavit or to any
other document to be used for the purposes of this Part. Provisions as to
Dissolution
559. Power of Court to declare dissolution of company void.
(1) Where a company has been dissolved, whether in pursuance of this Part or
of section 394 or otherwise, the Court may at any time within two years of the
date of the dissolution, on application by the liquidator of the company or by
any other person who appears to the Court to be interested, make an order,
upon such terms as the Court thinks fit, declaring the dissolution to have
been void; and thereupon such proceedings may be taken as might have been
taken if the company had not been dissolved.
(2) It shall be the duty of the person on whose application the order was
made, within 2 thirty] days after the making of the order or such further time
as the Court may allow, to file a certified copy of the order with the
Registrar who shall register the same; and if such person fails so to do, he
shall be punishable with fine which may extend to fifty rupees for every day
during which the default continues.
560. Power of Registrar to strike defunct company off register.
(1) Where the Registrar has reasonable cause to believe that a company is not
carrying on- business or in operation, he shall send to the company by post a
letter inquiring whether the company is carrying on business or in operation.
(2) If the Registrar does not within one month of sending the letter receive
any answer thereto, he shall, within fourteen days after the expiry of the
month, send to the company by post a registered
1\. Explanation omitted by Act 62 of 1956, s. 2 and Sch. (w. e. f. 1- 11- 1956
).
2\. Subs. by Act 31 of 1965, s. 62 and Sch., for" twenty- one" (w. e. f. 15-
10- 1965 ).
letter referring to the first letter, and stating that no answer thereto has
been received and that, if an answer is not received to the second letter
within one month from the date thereof, a notice will be published in the
Official Gazette with a view to striking the name of the company off the
register.
(3) If the Registrar either receives an answer from the company to the effect
that it is not carrying on business or in operation, or does not within one
month after sending the second letter receive any answer, he may publish in
the Official Gazette, and send to the company by registered post, a notice
that, at the expiration of three months from the date of that notice, the name
of the company mentioned therein will, unless cause is shown to the contrary,
be struck off the resister and the company will be dissolved.
(4) If, in any case where a company is being wound up, the Registrar has
reasonable cause to believe either that no liquidator is acting, or that the
affairs of the company have been completely wound up, and any returns required
to be made by the liquidator have not been made for a period of six
consecutive months, the Registrar shall publish in the Official Gazette and
send to the company or the liquidator, if any, a like notice as is provided in
subsection (3).
(5) At the expiry of the time mentioned in the notice referred to in sub-
section (3) or (4), the Registrar may, unless cause to the contrary is
previously shown by the company, strike its name off the register, and shall
publish notice thereof in the Official Gazette; and on the publication in the
Official Gazette of this notice, the company shall stand dissolved: Provided
that-
(a) the liability, if any, of every director, the managing agent, secretaries
and treasurers, manager or other officer who was exercising any power of
management, and of every member of the company, shall continue and may be
enforced as if the company had not been dissolved; and
(b) nothing in this sub- section shall affect the power of the Court to wind
up a company the name of which has been struck off the register.
(6) If a company, or any member or creditor thereof, feels aggrieved by the
company having been struck off the register, the Court, on an application made
by the company, member or creditor before the expiry of twenty years from the
publication in the Official Gazette of the notice aforesaid, may, if satisfied
that the company was, at the
time of the striking off, carrying on business or in operation or otherwise
that it is just that the company be restored to the register, order the name
of the company to be restored to the register; and the Court may, by the
order, give such directions and make such provisions as seem just for placing
the company and all other persons in the same position as nearly as may be as
if the name of the company had not been struck off.
(7) Upon a certified copy of the order under sub- section (6) being delivered
to the Registrar for registration, the company shall be deemed to have
continued in existence as if its name had not been struck off.
(8) A letter or notice to be sent under this section to a company may be
addressed to the company at its registered office, or if no office has been
registered, to the care of some director, the managing agent, secretaries and
treasurers, manager or other officer of the company, or if there is no
director, managing agent, secretaries and treasurers, manager or officer of
the company whose name and address are known to the Registrar, may be sent to
each of the persons who subscribed the memorandum, addressed to him at the
address mentioned in the memorandum.
(9) A notice to be sent under this section to a liquidator may be addressed to
the liquidator at his last known place of business. PART VIII APPLICATION OF
ACT TO COMPANIES FORMED OR REGISTERED UNDER PREVIOUS COMPANIES LAWS
561. Application of Act to companies formed and registered under previous companies laws. This Act shall apply to existing companies as follows:-
(a) in the case of a limited company other than a company limited by
guarantee, this Act shall apply in the same manner as if the company had been
formed and registered under this Act as a company limited by shares;
(b) in the case of a company limited by guarantee, this Act shall apply in the
same manner as if the company had been formed and registered under this Act as
a company limited by guarantee; and
(c) in the case of a company other than a limited company, this Act shall
apply in the same manner as if the company
had been formed and registered under this Act as an unlimited company:
Provided that-
(i) nothing in Table A in Schedule I shall apply to a company formed and
registered under Act 19 of 1857 and Act 7 of 1860 or either of them, or under
the Indian Companies Act, 1866 , (10 of 1866 .) or the Indian Companies Act,
1882 ; (6 of 1882 .)
(ii) reference, express or implied, to the date of registration shall be
construed as a reference to the date at which the company was registered under
the previous companies law concerned.
562. Application of Act to companies registered but not formed under previous companies laws. This Act shall apply to every company registered but not formed under any previous companies law in the same manner as it is in Part IX of this Act declared to apply to companies registered but not formed under this Act: Provided that reference, express or implied, to the date of registration shall be construed as a reference to the date at which the company was registered under the previous companies law concerned.
563. Application of Act to unlimited companies re- registered under previous companies laws. This Act shall apply to every unlimited company registered as a limited company in pursuance of any previous companies law, in the same manner as it applies to an unlimited company registered in pursuance of this Act as a limited company: Provided that reference, express or implied, to the date of registration shall be construed as a reference to the date at which the company was registered as a limited company under the previous companies law concerned.
564. Mode of transferring shares in the case of companies registered under Acts 19 of 1857 and 7 of 1860 . A company registered under Act 19 of 1857 and Act 7 of 1860 or either of them may cause its shares to be transferred in the manner hitherto in use, or in such other manner as the company may direct. PART IX COMPANIES AUTHORISED TO REGISTER UNDER THIS ACT
565. Companies capable of being registered.
(1) With the exceptions and subject to the provisions contained in this
section-
(a) any company consisting of seven or more members, which was in existence on
the first day of May, 1882 , including
any company registered under Act No. 19 of 1857 and Act No. 7 of 1860 or
either of them or under any laws or law in force in a Part B State,
corresponding to those Acts or either of them; and
(b) any company formed after the date aforesaid, whether before or after the
commencement of this Act, in pursuance of any Act of Parliament other than
this Act or of any other Indian law (including a law in force in a Part B
State), or of any Act of Parliament of the United Kingdom or Letters Patent in
force in India, or being otherwise duly constituted according to law, and
consisting of seven or more members; may at any time register under this Act
as an unlimited company, or as a company limited by shares, or as a company
limited by guarantee; and the registration shall not be invalid by reason only
that it has taken place with a view to the company' s being wound up: Provided
that-
(i) a company registered under the Indian Companies Act, 1882 , (6 of 1882 .)
or under the Indian Companies Act, 1913 , (7 of 1913 .) shall not register in
pursuance of this section;
(ii) a company having the liability of its members limited by any Act of
Parliament other than this Act or by any other Indian law (including a law in
force in a Part B State), or by any Act of Parliament of the United Kingdom or
Letters Patent in force in India, and not being a joint stock company as
defined in section 566, shall not register in pursuance of this section;
(iii) a company having the liability of its members limited by any Act of
Parliament other than this Act or by any other Indian law (including a law in
force in a Part B State), or any Act of Parliament of the United Kingdom or
Letters Patent in force in India, shall not register in pur- suance of this
section as an unlimited company or as a company limited by guarantee;
(iv) a company that is not a joint stock company as defined in section 566
shall not register in pursuance of this section as a company limited by
shares;
(v) a company shall not register in pursuance of this section without the
assent of a majority of such of its members
as are present in person, or where proxies are allowed, by proxy, at a general
meeting summoned for the purpose;
(vi) where a company not having the liability of its members limited by any
Act of Parliament or any other Indian law (including a law in force in a Part
B State) or by any Act of Parliament of the United Kingdom or Letters Patent
in force in India, is about to register as a limited company, the majority
required to assent as aforesaid shall consist of not less than three- fourths
of the members present in person, or where proxies are allowed, by proxy, at
the meeting;
(vii) where a company is about to register as a company limited by guarantee,
the assent to its being so registered shall be accompanied by a resolution
declaring that each member undertakes to contribute to the assets of the
company, in the event of its being wound up while he is a member, or within
one year after he ceases to be a member, for payment of the debts and
liabilities of the company or of such debts and liabilities as may have been
contracted before he ceases to be a member, and of the costs, charges and
expenses of winding up, and for the adjustment of the rights of the
contributories among themselves, such amount as may be required, not exceeding
a specified amount.
(2) In computing any majority required for the purposes of sub- section (1)
when a poll is demanded, regard shall be had to the number of votes to which
each member is entitled according to the regulations of the company.
(3) Nothing in this section shall be deemed to apply to any com- pany the
registered office whereof at the commencement of this Act is in Burma, Aden or
Pakistan, 1 .
566. Definition of" joint- stock company".
(1) For the purposes of this Part, so far as it relates to the registration of
companies as companies limited by shares, a joint stock company means a
company having a permanent paid up or nominal share capital of fixed amount
divided into shares, also of fixed amount, or held and transferable as stock,
or divided and held partly in the one way and partly in the other, and formed
on the
1\. The words" or in the State of Jammu and Kashmir" omitted by Act 62 of
1956, s. 2 and Sch. (w. e. f. 1- 11- 1956 ).
principle of having for its members the holders of those shares or that stock,
and no other persons.
(2) Such a company, when registered with limited liability under this Act,
shall be deemed to be a company limited by shares.
567. Requirements for registration of joint- stock companies. Before the registration in pursuance of this Part of a joint stock company, there shall be delivered to the Registrar the following documents:-
(a) a list showing the names, addresses and occupations of all persons who on
a day named in the list, not being more than six clear days before the day of
registration, were members of the company, with the addition of the shares or
stock held by them respectively, distinguishing, in cases where the shares are
numbered, each share by its number;
(b) a copy of any Act of Parliament or other Indian law, Act of Parliament of
the United Kingdom, Royal Charter, Letters Patent, deed of settlement, deed of
partnership or other instrument constituting or regulating the company; and
(c) if the company is intended to be registered as a limited company, a
statement specifying the following parti- culars:-
(i) the nominal share capital of the company and the number of shares into
which it is divided or the amount of stock of which it consists;
(ii) the number of shares taken and the amount paid on each share;
(iii) the name of the company, with the addition of the word" Limited" or"
Private Limited" as the case may require, as the last word or words thereof;
and
(iv) in the case of a company intended to be registered as a company limited
by guarantee, a copy of the resolution declaring the amount of the guarantee.
568. Requirements for registration of companies not being joint- stock companies. Before the registration in pursuance of this Part of any company not being a joint- stock company, there shall be delivered to the Registrar the following documents:-
(a) a list showing the names, addresses and occupations of the directors, the
managing agent, if any, the secretaries and
treasurers, if any, and the manager, if any, of the company;
(b) a copy of any Act of Parliament or other Indian law, Act of Parliament of
the United Kingdom, Letters Patent, deed of settlement, deed of partnership or
other instrument constituting or regulating the company; and
(c) in the case of a company intended to be registered as a company limited by
guarantee, a copy of the resolution declaring the amount of the guarantee.
569. Authentication of statements of existing companies. The lists of members and directors and any other particulars relating to the company required to be delivered to the Registrar shall be duly verified by the declaration of any two or more directors or other principal officers of the company.
570. Power of Registrar to require evidence as to nature of company. The Registrar may require such evidence as he thinks necessary for the purpose of satisfying himself whether any company proposing to be registered is or is not a joint- stock company as de- fined in section 566.
571. Notice to customers on registration of banking company with limited liability.
(1) Where a banking company which was in existence on the first day of May,
1882 , proposes to register as a limited company under this Part, it shall, at
least thirty days before so registering, give notice of its intention so to
register, to every person who has a banking account with the company, either
by delivery of the notice to him, or by posting it to him at, or delivering it
at, his last known address.
(2) If the banking company omits to give the notice required by sub- section
(1), then, as between the company and the person for the time being interested
in the account in respect of which the notice ought to have been given, and so
far as respects the account down to the time at which notice is given, but not
further or otherwise, the certificate of registration with limited liability
shall have no operation.
572. Change of name for purposes of registration. Where the name of a company seeking registration under this Part is one which in the opinion of the Central Government is undesirable, the company may, with the approval of the Central Government signified in writing, change its name with effect from the date of its registration under this Part: Provided that the like assent of the members of the company shall be required to the change of name as is required by section 565 to the registration of the company under this Part.
573. Addition" Limited" or" Private Limited" to name. When a company registers in pursuance of this Part with limited liability, the word" Limited" or the words" Private Limited" as the case may be, shall form, and be registered as, the last word or words of its name: Provided that this section shall not be deemed to exclude the operation of section 25.
574. Certificate of registration of existing companies. On compliance with the requirements of this Part with respect to registration, and on payment of such fees, if any, as are payable under Schedule X, the Registrar shall certify under his hand that the company applying for registration is incorporated as a company under this Act, and in the case of a limited company that it is limited and thereupon the company shall be so incorporated.
575. Vesting of property on registration. All property, movable and immovable (including actionable claims), belonging to or vested in a company at the date of its registration in pursuance of this Part, shall, on such registration, pass to and vest in the company as incorporated under this Act, for all the estate and interest of the company therein.
576. Saving for existing liabilities. The registration of a company in pursuance of this Part shall not affect its rights or liabilities in respect of any debt or obligation incurred, or any contract entered into, by, to, with, or on behalf of, the company before registration.
577. Continuation of pending legal proceedings. All suits and other legal proceedings taken by or against the company, or any public officer or member thereof, which are pending at the time of the registration of a company in pursuance of this Part, may be continued in the same manner as if the registration had not taken place: Provided that execution shall not issue against the property or person of any individual member of the company on any decree or order obtained in any such suit or proceeding; but, in the event of the property of the company being insufficient to satisfy the decree or order, an order may be obtained for winding up the company.
578. Effect of registration under Part.
(1) When a company is registered in pursuance of this Part, sub- sections (2)
to (7) shall apply.
(2) All provisions contained in any Act of Parliament or other Indian law, or
other instrument constituting or regulating the
company, including, in the case of a company registered as a company limited
by guarantee, the resolution declaring the amount of the guarantee, shall be
deemed to be conditions and regulations of the company, in the same manner and
with the same incidents as if so much thereof as would, if the company had
been formed under this Act, have been required to be inserted in the
memorandum, were contained in a registered memorandum, and the residue thereof
were contained in registered articles.
(3) All the provisions of this Act shall apply to the company and the members,
contributories and creditors thereof, in the same manner in all respects as if
it had been formed under this Act, subject as follows:-
(a) Table A in Schedule I shall not apply unless and except in so far as it is
adopted by special resolution;
(b) the provisions of this Act relating to the numbering of shares shall not
apply to any joint- stock company whose shares are not numbered;
(c) subject to the provisions of this section, the company shall not have
power to alter any provision contained in any Act of Parliament or other
Indian law relating to the company;
(d) subject to the provisions of this section, the company shall not have
power, without the sanction of the Central Government, to alter any provision
contained in any Act of Parliament of the United Kingdom, Royal Charter or
Letters Patent, relating to the company;
(e) the company shall not have power to alter any provision contained in any
Act of Parliament or other Indian law or in any Act of Parliament of the
United Kingdom, Royal Charter or Letters Patent, with respect to the objects
of the company;
(f) in the event of the company being wound up, every person shall be a
contributory, in respect of the debts and liabilities of the company
contracted before registration, who is liable to pay or contribute to the
payment of any debt or liability of the company contracted before
registration, or to pay or contribute to the payment of any sum for the
adjustment of the rights of the members among themselves in respect of any
such debt or liability, or to pay or contribute to the payment of the costs,
charges and expenses of winding up the company, so far as relates to such
debts or liabilities as aforesaid;
(g) in the event of the company being wound up, every contributory shall be
liable to contribute to the assets of the company, in the course of the
winding up, all sums due from him in respect of any such liability as
aforesaid; and in the event of the death or insolvency of any contributory,
the provisions of this Act with respect to the legal representatives of
deceased contributories, or with respect to the assignees of insolvent
contributories, as the case may be, shall apply.
(4) The provisions of this Act with respect to-
(a) the registration of an unlimited as a limited company;
(b) the powers of an unlimited company on registration as a limited company,
to increase the nominal amount of its share capital and to provide that a
portion of its share capital shall not be capable of being called up except in
the event of winding up;
(c) the power of a limited company to determine that a portion of its share
capital shall not be capable of being called up except in the event of winding
up; shall apply, notwithstanding any provisions contained in any Act of
Parliament or other Indian law, or other instrument constituting or regulating
the company.
(5) Nothing in this section shall authorise the company to alter any such
provisions contained in any instrument constituting or regulating the company
as would, if the company had originally been formed under this Act, have been
required to be contained in the memorandum and are not authorised to be
altered by this Act.
(6) None of the provisions of this Act (apart from those of section 404) shall
derogate from any power of altering its constitution or regulations which may
be vested in the company, by virtue of any Act of Parliament or other Indian
law, or other instrument constituting or regulating the company.
(7) In this section, the expression" instrument" includes deed of settlement,
deed of partnership, Act of Parliament of the United Kingdom, Royal Charter
and Letters Patent.
579. Power to substitute memorandum and articles for deed of settlement.
(1) Subject to the provisions of this section, a company registered in
pursuance of this Part may, by special resolution, alter
the form of its constitution by substituting a memorandum and articles for a
deed of settlement.
(2) The provisions of sections 17 and 19 with respect to an alteration of the
objects of a company shall, so far as applicable, apply to any alteration
under this section with the following modifications:-
(a) there shall be substituted for the printed copy of the altered memorandum
required to be filed with the Registrar a printed copy of the substituted
memorandum and articles; and
(b) on the registration of the alteration being certified by the Registrar,
the substituted memorandum and articles shall apply to the company in the same
manner as if it were a company registered under this Act with that memorandum
and those articles, and the company' s deed of settlement shall cease to apply
to the company.
(3) An alteration under this section may be made either with or without any
alteration of the objects of the company under this Act.
(4) In this section, the expression" deed of settlement" includes any deed of
partnership, Act of Parliament of the United Kingdom, Royal Charter or Letters
Patent, or other instrument constituting or regulating the company, not being
an Act of Parliament or other Indian law.
580. Power of Court to stay or restrain proceedings. The provisions of this Act with respect to staying and restraining suits and other legal proceedings against a company at any time after the presentation of a petition for winding up and before the making of a winding up order, shall, in the case of a company registered in pursuance of this Part, where the application to stay or restrain is by a creditor, extend to suits and other legal proceedings against any contributory of the company.
581. Suits stayed on winding up order. Where an order has been made for winding up, or a provisional liquidator has been appointed for, a company registered in pursuance of this Part, no suit or other legal proceeding shall be proceeded with or commenced against the Company or any contributory of the company in respect of any debt of the company, except by leave of the Court and except on such terms as the Court may impose.
PART X WINDING UP OF UNREGISTERED COMPANIES
582. Managing of" unregistered company". For the purposes of this Part, the expression" unregistered company"-
(a) shall not include-
(i) a railway company incorporated by any Act of Parliament or other Indian
law or any Act of Parliament of the United Kingdom;
(ii) a company registered under this Act; or
(iii) a company registered under any previous com- panies law and not being a
company the registered office whereof was in Burma, Aden or Pakistan
immediately before the separation of that country from India 1 ; and
(b) save as aforesaid, shall include any partnership, association or company
consisting of more than seven members 2 at the time when the petition for
winding up the partnership, association or company, as the case may be, is
presented before the Court].
583. Winding up of unregistred companies.
(1) Subject to the provisions of this Part, any unregistered company may be
wound up under this Act, and all the provisions of this Act with respect to
winding up shall apply to an unregistered company, with the exceptions and
additions mentioned in sub- sections (2) to (5).
(2) For the purpose of determining the Court having Jurisdiction in the matter
of the winding up, an unregistered company shall be deemed to be registered in
the State where its principal place of business is situate or, if it has a
principal place of business situate in more than one State, then, in each
State where it has a principal place of business; and the principal place of
business situate in that State in which proceedings are being instituted
shall, for all the purposes of the winding up, be deemed to be the registered
office of the company.
(3) No unregistered company shall be wound up under this Act voluntarily or
subject to the supervision of the Court.
1\. Certain words omitted by Act 62 of 1956, s. 2 and Sch. (w. e. f. 1- 11-
1956 ).
2\. Ins. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 192.
(4) The circumstances in which an unregistered company may be wound up are as
follows:-
(a) if the company is dissolved, or has ceased to carry on business, or is
carrying on business only for the purpose of winding up its affairs;
(b) it the company is unable to pay its debts;
(c) if the Court is of opinion that it is just and equitable that the company
should be wound up.
(5) An unregistered company shall, for the purposes of this Act, be deemed to
be unable to pay its debts-
(a) if a creditor, by assignment or otherwise, to whom the company is indebted
in a sum exceeding five hundred rupees then due, has served on the company, by
leaving at its principal place of business, or by delivering to the secretary,
or some director, managing agent, secretaries and treasurers, manager or
principal officer of the company, or by otherwise serving in such manner as
the Court may approve or direct, a demand under his hand requiring the company
to pay the sum so due, and the company has, for three weeks after the service
of the demand, neglected to pay the sum or to secure or compound for it to the
satisfaction of the creditor;
(b) if any suit or other legal proceeding has been instituted against any
member for any debt or demand due, or claimed to be due, from the company, or
from him in his character of member, and notice in writing of the institution
of the suit or other legal proceeding having been served on the company by
leaving the same at its principal place of business or by delivering it to the
secretary, or some director, managing agent, secretaries and treasurers,
manager or principal officer of the company or by otherwise serving the same
in such manner as the Court may approve or direct, the company has not, within
ten days after service of the notice,-
(i) paid, secured or compounded for the debt or demand; or
(ii) procured the suit or other legal proceeding to be stayed; or
(iii) indemnified the defendant to his satisfaction against the suit or other
legal proceeding, and against
all costs, damages and expenses to be incurred by him by reason of the same;
(c) if execution or other process issued on a decree or order of any Court in
favour of a creditor against the company, or any member thereof as such, or
any person authorised to be sued as nominal defendant on behalf of the
company, is returned unsatisfied in whole or in part;
(d) if it is otherwise proved to the satisfaction of the Court that the
company is unable to pay its debts.
584. Power to wind up foreign companies, although dissolved. Where a body corporate incorporated outside India which has been carrying on business in India, ceases to carry on business in India, it may be wound up as an unregistered company under this Part, notwithstanding that the body corporate has been dissolved or otherwise ceased to exist as such under or by virtue of the laws of the country under which it was incorporated.
585. Contributories in winding up of unregistred company.
(1) In the event of an unregistered company being wound up, every person shall
be deemed to be a contributory, who is liable to pay, or contribute to the
payment of,-
(a) any debt or liability of the company; or
(b) any sum for the adjustment of the rights of the members among themselves;
or
(c) the costs, charges and expenses of winding up the company.
(2) Every contributory shall be liable to contribute to the assets of the
company all sums due from him in respect of any liability to pay or contribute
as aforesaid.
(3) In the event of the death or insolvency of any contributory, the
provisions of this Act with respect to the legal representatives of deceased
contributories, or with respect to the assignees of insolvent contributories,
as the case may be, shall apply.
586. Power to stay or restrain proceedings. The provisions of this Act with respect to staying and restraining suits and legal proceedings against a company at any time after the presentation of a petition for winding up and before the making of a winding up order, shall, in the case of an unregistered company, where the application to stay or restrain is by a creditor, extend to suits and legal proceedings against any contributory of the company.
587. Suits, etc., stayed or winding up order. Where an order has been made for winding up an unregistered company, no suit or other legal proceeding shall be proceeded with or commenced against any contributory of the company in respect of any debt of the company, except by leave of the Court and except on such terms as the Court may impose.
588. Directions as to property in certain cases.
(1) If an unregistered company has no power to sue and be sued in a common
name, or if for any reason it appears expedient, the Court may, by the winding
up order or by any subsequent order, direct that all or any part of the
property, movable or immovable (including actionable claims), belonging to the
company or held by trustees on its behalf, shall vest in the Official
Liquidator by his official name; and thereupon the property or the part
thereof specified in the order shall vest accordingly.
(2) The Official Liquidator may, after giving such indemnity, if any, as the
Court may direct, bring or defend in his official name any suit or legal
proceeding relating to that property, or which it is necessary to bring or
defend for the purpose of effectually winding up the company and recovering
its property.
589. Provisions of Part cumulative.
(1) The provisions of this Part with respect to unregistered companies shall
be in addition to and not in derogation of, any provisions hereinbefore in
this Act contained with respect to the winding up of companies by the Court.
(2) The Court or Official Liquidator may exercise any powers or do any act in
the case of unregistered companies which might be exercised or done by the
Court or Official Liquidator in winding up companies formed and registered
under this Act: Provided that an unregistered company shall not, except in the
event of its being wound up, be deemed to be a company under this Act, and
then only to the extent provided by this Part.
590. Saving and construction of enactments conferring power to wind up partnership, association or company in certain cases. Nothing in this Part shall affect the operation of any enactment which provides for any partnership, association or company being wound up, or being wound up as a company or as an unregistered company, under the Indian Companies Act, 1913 (7 of 1913 .) or any Act repealed by that Act: Provided that references in any such enactment to any provision contained in the Indian Companies Act, 1913 (7 of 1913 .) or in any Act repealed by that Act shall be read as references to the corresponding provision, if any, contained in this Act.
PART XI COMPANIES INCORPORATED OUTSIDE INDIA Provisions as to Establishment of
Places of Business in India
591. Application of sections 592 to 602 to foreign companies.
(1) 1 ] Sections 592 to 602, both inclusive, shall apply to all foreign
companies, that is to say, companies falling under the following two classes,
namely:-
(a) companies incorporated outside India which, after the commencement of this
Act, establish a place of business within India; and
(b) companies incorporated outside India which have, before the commencement
of this Act, established a place of business within India and continue to have
an established place of business within India at the commencement of this Act.
(2) 2 Notwithstanding anything contained in sub- section (1), where not less
than fifty per cent. of the paid up share capital (whether equity or
preference or partly equity and partly preference) of a company incorporated
outside India and having an established place of business in India, is held by
one or more citizens of India or by one or more bodies corporate incorporated
in India, or by one or more citizens of India and one or more bodies corporate
incorporated in India, whether singly or in the aggregate, such company shall
comply with such of the provisions of this Act as may be prescribed with
regard to the business carried on by it in India, as if it were a company
incorporated in India.]
592. Documents, etc., to be delivered to Registrar by foreign companies carrying on business in India.
(1) Foreign companies which, after the commencement of this Act, establish a
place of business within India shall, within 3 thirty days] of the
establishment of the place of business, deliver to the Registrar for
registration-
(a) a certified copy of the charter, statutes, or memorandum and articles, of
the company or other instrument constituting or defining the constitution of
the company; and,
1\. S. 591 renumbered as sub- section (1) by Act 41 of 1974, s. 32 (w. e. f.
1- 2- 1975 ).
2\. Ins. by s. 32, ibid. (w. e. f. 1- 2- 1975 ).
3\. Subs. by Act 31 of 1965, s. 62 and Sch., for" one month" (w. e. f. 15- 10-
1965 ).
if the instrument is not in the English language, a certi- fied translation
thereof;
(b) the full address of the registered or principal office of the company;
(c) a list of the directors and secretary of the company, containing the
particulars mentioned in sub- section (2);
(d) the name and address or the names and addresses of some one or more
persons resident in India, authorised to accept on behalf of the company
service of process and any notices or other documents required to be served on
the company; and
(e) the full address of the office of the company in India which is to be
deemed its principal place of business in India.
(2) The list referred to in clause (c) of sub- section (1) shall contain the
following particulars, that is to say:-
(a) with respect to each director,-
(i) in the case of an individual, his present name and surname in full, any
former name or names and sur-
name or surnames in full, his usual residential address, his nationality, and
if that nationality is not the nationality of origin, his nationality of
origin, and his business occupation, if any, or if he has no business
occupation but holds any other directorship or directorships, particulars of
that directorship or of some one of those directorships; and
(ii) in the case of a body corporate, its corporate name and registered or
principal office; and the full name, address, nationality, and nationality of
origin. if different from that nationality, of each of its directors;
(b) with respect to the secretary, or where there are joint secretaries with
respect to each of them-
(i) in the case of an individual., his present name and surname. any former
name or names and surname or surnames, and his usual residential address; and
(ii) in the case of a body corporate, its corporate name and registered or
principal office: Provided that, where all the partners in a firm are joint
secretaries of the company, the name and principal office of the firm may be
stated instead of the particulars mentioned in clause (b) of this subsection.
(3) Clauses (2) and (3) of the Explanation to sub- section (1) of section 303
shall apply for the purpose of the construction of refer- ences in sub-
section (2) to present and former names and surnames as they apply for the
purposes of the construction of such references in sub- section (1) of section
303.
(4) Foreign companies, other than those mentioned in sub- section (1), shall,
if they have not delivered to the Registrar before the commencement of this
Act the documents and particulars specified in sub- section (1) of section 277
of the Indian Companies Act, 1913 , (7 of 1913 .) continue to be subject to
the obligation to deliver those documents and particulars in accordance with
that Act.
593. Return to be delivered to Registrar by foreign company where documents, etc., altered. If any alteration is made or occurs in-
(a) the charter, statutes, or memorandum and articles of a foreign company or
other instrument constituting or defining the constitution of a foreign
company; or
(b) the registered or principal office of a foreign company; or
(c) the directors or secretary of a foreign company 1 ; or
(d) the name or address of any of the persons authorised to accept service on
behalf of a foreign company; or
(e) the principal place of business of the company in India; the company
shall, within the prescribed time, deliver to the Registrar for registration a
return containing the prescribed particulars of the alteration.
594. Accounts of foreign company.
(1) Every foreign company shall, in every calendar year,-
(a) make out a balance sheet and profit and loss account in such form,
containing such particulars and including or having annexed or attached
thereto such documents (including, in particular documents relating to every
subsidiary of the foreign company) as under the provisions of this Act it
would, if it had been a company within the meaning of this Act, have been
required to make out and lay before the company in general meeting; and
(b) deliver three copies of those documents to the Registrar: Provided that
the Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, direct
that, in the case of any foreign company or class of foreign company the
requirements of clause (a) shall not apply, or shall apply subject to such
exceptions and modifications as may be specified in the notification.
(2) If any such document as is mentioned in sub- section (1) is not in the
English language, there shall be annexed to it a certified translation
thereof.
(3) Every foreign company shall send to the Registrar with the documents
required to be delivered to him under sub- section (1), three copies of a list
in the prescribed form of all places of business established by the company in
India as at the date with reference to which the balance sheet referred to in
sub- section (1) is made out.
595. Obligation to state name of foreign company whether limited, and country where incorporated. Every foreign company shall-
(a) in every prospectus inviting subscriptions in India for its shares or
debentures, state the country in which the company is incorporated;
(b) conspicuously exhibit on the outside of every office or place where it
carries on business in India, the name of the
1\. Certain words omitted by Act 31 of 1965, s. 57 (w. e. f. 15- 10- 1965 ).
company and the country in which it is incorporated, in letters easily legible
in English characters, and also in the characters of the language or one of
the languages in general use in the locality in which the office or place is
situate;
(c) cause the name of the company and of the country in which the company is
incorporated, to be stated in legible English characters in all business
letters, bill- heads and letter paper, and in all notices, 1 and other
official publications of the company; and
(d) if the liability of the members of the company is limited cause notice of
that fact-
(i) to be stated in every such prospectus as aforesaid and in all business
letters, bill- heads, letter paper, notices, advertisements and other official
publications of the company, in legible English characters; and
(ii) to be conspicuously exhibited on the outside of every office or place
where it carries on business in India, in legible English characters and also
in legible characters of the language or one of the languages in general use
in the locality in which the office or place is situate.
596. Service on foreign company. Any process, notice, or other document required to be served on a foreign company shall be deemed to be sufficiently served, if addressed to any person whose name has been delivered to the Registrar under the foregoing provisions of this Part and left at, or sent by post to, the address which has been so delivered: Provided that-
(a) where any such company makes default in delivering to the Registrar the
name and address of a person resident in India who is authorised to accept on
behalf of the company service of process, notices or other documents; or
(b) if at any time all the persons whose names and addresses have been so
delivered are dead or have ceased so to reside, or refuse to accept service on
behalf of the com- pany, or for any reason, cannot be served;
1\. The word" advertisements" omitted by Act 65 of 1960, s. 193.
a document may be served on the company by leaving it at, or sending it by
post to, any place of business established by the company in India.
597. Office where documents to be delivered.
(1) Any document which any foreign company is required to deliver to the
Registrar shall be delivered to the Registrar having jurisdiction over New
Delhi, and references to the Registrar in this Part[ except in sub- section
(2)] shall be construed accordingly.
(2) Any such document as is referred to in sub- section (1) shall also be
delivered to the Registrar of the State in which the principal place of
business of the company is situate.
(3) If any foreign company ceases to have a place of business in India, it
shall forthwith give notice of the fact to the Registrar, and as from the date
on which notice is so given, the obligation of the company to deliver any
document to the Registrar shall cease, pro- vided it has no other place of
business in India.
598. Penalties. If any foreign company fails to comply with any of the foregoing provisions of this Part, the company, and every officer or agent of the company who is in default, shall be punishable with fine which may extend to one thousand rupees, and in the case of a continuing offence, with an additional fine which may extend to one hundred rupees for every day during which the default continues.
599. Company' s failure to comply with Part not to affect its liability under contracts, etc. Any failure by a foreign company to comply with any of the foregoing provisions of this Part shall not affect the validity of any contract, dealing or transaction entered into by the company or its liability to be sued in respect thereof; but the company shall not be entitled to bring any suit, claim any set- off, make any counter- claim or institute any legal proceeding in respect of any such contract, dealing or transaction, until it has complied with the provisions of this Part.
600. Registration of charges, appointment of receiver and books of account.
(1) The provisions of Part V (sections 124 to 145); shall apply mutatis
mutandis to-
(a) charges on properties in India which are created by a foreign company
after the 15th day of January, 1937 ; and
(b) charges on property in India which is acquired by any foreign company
after the day aforesaid: Provided that where a charge is created, or the
completion of the acquisition of the property takes place, outside India, sub-
section (5) of section 125 and the proviso to sub- section (1) of section 127
shall
have effect as if the property, wherever situated, were situated out- side
India.
(2) The provisions of section 118 shall apply mutatis mutandis to a foreign
company.
(3) 1 (a)] The provisions of section 209 shall apply to a foreign company to
the extent of requiring it to keep at its principal place of business in India
the books of account referred to in that section, with respect to moneys
received and expended, sales and purchases made, and assets and liabilities,
in the course of or in relation to its business in India.
(b) 2 On and from the commencement of the Companies (Amendment) Act, 1974 ,
(41 of 1974 .)-
(i) the provisions of section 159 shall, subject to such modifications or
adaptations as may be made therein by the rules made under this Act, apply to
a foreign company having an established place of business in India, as they
apply to a company incorporated in India;
(ii) the proviso of sections 209, 209A, 233A and 233B and sections 234 to 246
(both inclusive) shall, so far as may be, apply only to the Indian business of
a foreign company having an established place of business in India, as they
apply to a company incorporated in India.]
(4) In applying the sections referred to in sub- sections (1), (2) and (3) to
a foreign company as aforesaid, references in those sections to the Registrar
shall be deemed to be references to the Registrar having jurisdiction over New
Delhi, and references to the registered office of the foreign company shall be
deemed to be references to its principal place of business in India.
601. Fees for registration of documents under Part. There shall be paid to the Registrar for registering any document required by the foregoing provisions of this Part to be registered by him, such fees as may be prescribed.
1\. Sub- section (3) re- lettered as cl. (a) of that sub- section by Act 41 of
1974, s. 33 (w. e. f. 1- 2- 1975 ).
2\. Ins. by s. 33, ibid. (w. e. f. 1- 2- 1975 ).
602. Interpretation of foregoing sections of Part. For the purposes of the foregoing provisions of this Part-
(a) the expression" certified" means certified in the prescribed manner to be
a true copy or a correct translation;
(b) the expression" direct- or", in relation to a company, includes any person
in accordance with whose directions or instructions the Board of directors of
the company is accus- tomed to act;
(c) the expression" place of business" includes a share transfer or share
registration office;
(d) the expression" prospectus" has the same meaning as when used in relation
to a company incorporated under this Act; and
(e) the expression" secretary" includes any person occupying the position of
secretary, by whatever name called. Prospectuses
603. Dating of prospectus and particulars to be contained therein.
(1) No person shall issue, circulate or distribute in India any prospectus
offering for subscription shares in or debentures of a company incorporated or
to be incorporated outside India, whether the company has or has not
established, or when formed will or will not establish, a place of business in
India, unless the prospectus is dated: and
(a) contains particulars with respect to the following matters:-
(i) the instrument constituting or defining the con- stitution of the company;
(ii) the enactments or provisions having the force of enactments, by or under
which the incorporation of the company was effected;
(iii) an address in India where the said instrument, enactments, or provision,
or copies thereof, and if the same are not in English, a translation thereof
certified in the prescribed manner, can be inspected;
(iv) the date on which and the country in which the company was incorporated:
(v) whether the company has established a place of business in India, and, if
so, the address of its principal office in India; and
(b) subject to the provisions of this section, states the matters specified in
Part I of Schedule 11 and sets out the reports specified in Part II of that
Schedule, subject always to the provisions contained in Part III of that
Schedule: Provided that sub- clauses (i), (ii) and (iii) of clause (a) shall
not apply in the case of a prospectus issued more than two years after the
date at which the company is entitled to commence business; and in the
application of Part I of Schedule II for the purposes of this sub- section,
clause 2 thereof shall have effect with the substitution, for references to
the articles of references to the constitution of a company.
(2) Any condition requiring or binding an applicant for shares or debentures
to waive compliance with any requirement imposed by virtue of clause (a) or
(b) of sub- section (1), or purporting to affect him with notice of any
contract, document or matter not specifically referred to in the prospectus,
shall be void.
(3) No person shall issue to any person in India a form of application for
shares in or debentures of such a company or intended company as is mentioned
in sub- section (1), unless the form is issued with a prospectus which
complies with the provisions of this Part and the issue whereof in India does
not contravene the provisions of section 604: Provided that this sub- section
shall not apply if it is shown that the form of application was issued in
connection with a bona fide
invitation to a person to enter into an underwriting agreement with respect to
the shares or debentures.
(4) In the event of non- compliance with or contravention of any of the
requirements imposed by clauses (a) and (b) of sub- section (1), a director or
other person responsible for the prospectus shall not incur any liability by
reason of the non- compliance or contravention, if-
(a) as regards any matter not disclosed, he proves that he had no knowledge
thereof; or
(b) he proves that the non- compliance or contravention arose from an honest
mistake of fact on his part; or
(c) the non- compliance or contravention was in respect of matters which, in
the opinion of the Court dealing with the case, were immaterial, or was
otherwise such as ought in the opinion of that Court, having regard to all the
circumstances of the case, reasonably to be excused: Provided that, in the
event of failure to include in a prospectus a statement with respect to the
matters contained in clause 18 of Schedule II, no director or other person
shall incur any liability in respect to the failure, unless it be proved that
he had knowledge of the matters not disclosed.
(5) This section-
(a) shall not apply to the issue to existing members or debenture holders of a
company of a prospectus or form of application relating to shares in or
debentures of the company, whether an applicant for shares or debentures will
or will not have the right to renounce in favour of other persons; and
(b) except in so far as it requires a prospectus to be dated, shall not apply
to the issue of a prospectus relating to shares or debentures which are or are
to be in all respects uniform with shares or debentures previously issued and
for the time being dealt in or quoted on a recognised stock exchange, but,
subject as aforesaid, this section shall apply to a prospectus or form of
application whether issued on or with reference to the for- mation of a
company or subsequently.
(6) Nothing in this section shall limit or diminish any liability which any
person may incur under the general law or under this Act apart from this
section,
604. Provisions as to expert' s consent and allotment.
(1) No person shall issue, circulate or distribute in India any prospectus
offering for subscription shares in or debentures of a company incorporated or
to be incorporated outside India, whether the company has or has not
established, or when formed will or will not establish, a place of business in
India-
(a) if, where the prospectus includes a statement purporting to be made by an
expert, he has not given, or has before delivery of the prospectus for
registration withdrawn, his written consent to the issue of the prospectus
with the statement included in the form and context in which it is included,
or there does not appear in the prospectus a statement that he has given and
has not withdrawn his consent as aforesaid; or
(b) if the prospectus does not have the effect, where an application is made
in pursuance thereof, of rendering all persons concerned bound by all the
provisions (other than penal provisions) of sections 72, 73 and 74, so far as
applicable.
(2) In this section, the expression" expert" includes an engineer, a valuer,
an accountant and any other person whose profession gives authority to a
statement made by him; and for the purposes of this section a statement shall
be deemed to be included in a prospectus if it is contained in any report or
memorandum appearing on the face thereof or by reference incorporated therein
or issued therewith.
605. Registration of prospectus. 1
(1) ] No person shall issue, circulate or distribute in India any prospectus
offering for subscription shares in or debentures of a company incorporated or
to be incorporated outside India, whether the company has or has not
established, or when formed will or will not establish, a place of business in
India, unless before the issue, circulation or distribution of the prospectus
in India, a copy thereof certified by the chairman and two other directors of
the company as having been approved by resolution of the managing body has
been delivered for registration to the Registrar and the prospectus states on
the face of it that a copy has been so delivered, and there is endorsed on or
attached to the copy-
(a) any consent to the issue of the prospectus required by section 604;
(b) a copy of any contract required by clause 16 of Schedule II to be stated
in the prospectus or, in the case of a
1\. Ins. by Act 36 of 1957, s. 3 and Sch. II,
contract not reduced into writing, a memorandum giving full particulars
thereof; and
(c) where the persons making any report required by Part II of Schedule II
have made therein, or have, without giving the reasons, indicated therein, any
such adjustments as are mentioned in clause 32 of that Schedule, a written
statement signed by those persons setting out the adjustments and giving the
reasons therefore.
(2) The references in clause (b) of sub- section (1) to the copy of a 1
contract] required thereby to be endorsed on or attached to a copy of the
prospectus shall, in the case of a contract wholly or partly in a language
other than English, be taken as references to a copy of a translation of the
contract in English or a copy embodying a translation in English of the parts
which are not in English, as the case may be, being a translation certified in
the prescribed manner to be a correct translation.
606. Penalty for contravention of sections 603, 604 and 605. Any person who is knowingly responsible-
(a) for the issue, circulation or distribution of a prospectus; or
(b) for the issue of a form of application for shares or debentures; in
contravention of any of the provisions of sections 603, 604 and 605, shall be
punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to six months, or
with fine which may extend to five thousand rupees, or with both.
607. Civil liability for mis- statements in prospectus. Section 62 shall extend to every prospectus offering for subscription shares in or debentures of a company incorporated or to be incorporated outside India, whether the company has or has not established, or when formed will or will not establish, a place of business in India, with the substitution for references in section 62 to section 60 of this Act, of references to section 604 thereof.
608. Interpretation of provisions as to prospectuses.
(1) Where any document by which any shares in, or debentures of, a company
incorporated outside India are offered for sale to the public, would, if the
company concerned had been a company within the meaning of this Act, have been
deemed by virtue of section 64, to be a prospectus issued by the company, that
document shall be deemed, for the purposes of this Part, to be a prospectus
issued by the company offering such shares or debentures for subscription.
1\. Subs. by Act 36 of 1957, s. 3 and Sch. II, for" contractor".
(2) An offer of shares or debentures for subscription or sale to any person
whose ordinary business it is to buy or sell shares or debentures, whether as
principal or as agent, shall not be deemed to be an offer to the public for
the purposes of this Part.
(3) In this Part, the expressions" prospectus"," shares" and" debentures" have
the same meanings as when used in relation to a company incorporated under
this Act. PART XII REGISTRATION OFFICES AND OFFICERS AND FEES
609. Registration Offices.
(1) For the purposes of the registration of companies under this Act, there
shall be offices at such places as the Central Government thinks fit.
(2) The Central Government may appoint such Registrars, and such Additional,
Joint, Deputy and Assistant Registrars as it thinks necessary for the
registration of companies under this Act, and may make regulations with
respect to their duties.
(3) The salaries of the persons appointed under this section shall be fixed by
the Central Government.
(4) The Central Government may direct a seal or seals to be pre- pared for the
authentication of documents required for, or connected with, the registration
of companies.
(5) Whenever any act is by this Act directed to be done to or by the
Registrar, it shall, until the Central Government otherwise directs, be done
to or by the existing Registrar of companies or jointstock companies, or in
his absence, to or by such person as the Central Government may for the time
being authorise: Provided that in the event of the Central Government altering
the constitution of the existing registry offices or any of them, any such act
shall be done to or by such officer and at such place, with reference to the
local situation of the registered offices of the com- panies concerned, as the
Central Government may appoint.
610. Inspection, production and evidence of documents kept by Registrar.
(1) 1 Save as otherwise provided elsewhere in this Act, any person may]-
(a) inspect any documents kept by the Registrar 2 in accordance with the rules
made under the Destruction of
1\. Subs. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 194, for" Any person may".
2\. Ins. by s. 194, ibid.
Records Act, 1917 ] (5 of 1917 .) being documents filed or registered by him
in pursuance of this Act, or making a record of any fact required or
authorised to be recorded or registered in pursuance of this Act, on payment
for each inspection, of a 1 such fee as may be prescribed];
(b) require a certificate of the incorporation of any company, or a copy or
extract of any other document or any part of any other document to be
certified by the Registrar, 2 on payment in advance of 1 such fees as may be
prescribed]: Provided that the rights conferred by this sub- section shall be
exercisable-
(i) in relation to documents delivered to the Registrar with a prospectus in
pursuance of sub- clause (i) of clause (b) of sub- section (1) of section 60,
only during the fourteen days beginning with the date of publication of the
prospectus; and at other times, only with the permission of the Central
Government; and
(ii) in relation to documents so delivered in pursuance of clause (b) of sub-
section (1) of section 605, only during the fourteen days beginning with the
date of the prospectus; and at other times, only with the permission of the
Central Government.
(2) No process for compelling the production of any document kept by the
Registrar shall issue from any Court 3 or the Company Law Board] except with
the leave of that Court 3 or the Company Law Board]; and any such process, if
issued, shall bear thereon a statement that it is issued with the leave of the
Court 3 or the Company Law Board].
(3) A copy of, or extract from, any document kept and registered at any of the
offices for the registration of companies under this Act, certified to be a
true copy under the hand of the Registrar (whose official position it shall
not be necessary to prove), shall, in all legal proceedings, be admissible in
evidence as of equal validity with the original document. 4
1\. Subs. by Act 31 of 1988, s. 57 (w. e. f. 15. 7. 1988 ).
2\. Subs. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 194, for certain words.
3\. Ins. by Act 31 of 1988, S. 57 (w. e. f. 31- 5- 1991 ).
4\. Sub- section (4) omitted Act 65 of 1960, S. 194.
611. Fees in Schedule X to be paid. 1
(1) ] In respect of the several matters mentioned in Schedule X, there shall,
subject to the limitations imposed by that Schedule, be paid to the Registrar
the several fees therein specified: Provided that no fees shall be charged in
respect of the registration in pursuance of Part IX of a company, if it is not
registered as a limited company, or if, before its registration as a limited
company, the liability of the shareholders was limited by some other Act of
Parliament or any other Indian law or by an Act of Parliament of the United
Kingdom, Royal Charter or Letters Patent in force in India: 2 Provided further
that in the case of resolutions to which sec- tion 192 applies, not more than
one fee shall be required for the filing of more resolutions than one passed
in the same meeting if such resolutions are filed with the Registrar at the
same time.]
(2) 2 Any document required or authorised by this Act to be filed or
registered, or any fact required or authorised by this Act to be registered,
with the Registrar on payment of the fee specified therefor in Schedule X,
may, without prejudice to any other liability, be filed or registered after
the time, if any, specified in this Act for its filing or registration on
payment of such additional fee not exceeding ten times the amount of the fee
so specified as the Registrar may determine.]
612. Fees, etc., paid to Registrar and other officers to be accounted for to Central Government. All fees, charges, and other sums paid to any Registrar, any Additional, Joint, Deputy, or Assistant Registrar, or any other officer of the Central Government in pursuance of this Act shall be paid into the public account of India in the Reserve Bank of India.
613. Power of Central Government to reduce fees, charges, etc.
(1) The Central Government may, by order notified in the Official Gazette,
reduce the amount of any fee, charge or other sum specified in any provision
contained in this Act, as payable in respect of any matter, either to the
Central Government or to any Registrar, any Additional, Joint, Deputy, or
Assistant Registrar or any other officer of the Central Government; and
thereupon such provision shall, during the period for which the order is in
force, have effect as if the reduced fee had been substituted for the fee
specified in such provision.
1\. S. 611 re- numbered as sub- section (1) of that section by Act 65 of 1960,
s. 195.
2\. Ins. by s. 195, ibid.
(2) Any order notified under sub- section (1) may, by a like order, be
cancelled or varied at any time by the Central Government.
(3) Nothing in this section shall be deemed to affect the power of the Central
Government under section 641 to alter any of the fees specified in Schedule X.
614. Enforcement of duty of company to make returns etc., to Registrar.
(1) If a company, having made default in complying with any provision of this
Act which requires it to file or register with, or deliver or send to, the
Registrar any return, account or other document, or to give notice to him of
any matter, fails to make good the default within fourteen days after the
service of a notice on the company requiring it to do so, the 1 Company Law
Board] may, on an application made to it by any member or creditor of the
company or by the Registrar, make an order directing the company and any
officer thereof to make good the default within such time as may be specified
in the order.
(2) Any such order may provide that all costs of and incidental to the
application shall be borne by the company or by any officers of the company
responsible for the default.
(3) Nothing in this section shall be taken to prejudice the opera- tion of any
provisions in this or any other Act imposing penalties on a company or its
officers in respect of any such default as aforesaid.
Power of Court trying offences under the Act to direct the filing ofdocuments
with Registrar.
614A. 2 Power of Court trying offences under the Act to direct the filing of
documents with Registrar.
(1) Any Court trying an offence for a default in compliance with any provision
of this Act which requires a company or its officers to file or register with,
or deliver or send to, the Registrar, any return, account or other document,
may at the time of sentencing, acquitting or discharging the accused, direct
by order, if it thinks fit to do so, any officer or other employee of the
company to file or register with, deliver or send to, the Registrar on payment
of the fee including the additional fee required to be paid under section 611,
such return, account or other document within such time as may be specified in
the order.
(2) Any officer or other employee of the company who fails to comply with an
order of the Court under sub- section (1) shall be punishable with
imprisonment for a term which may extend to six months, or with fine, or with
both.]
1\. Subs. by Act 31 of 1988, s. 67 (w. e. f. 31. 5. 1991 ).
2\. Ins. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 196.
PART XIII GENERAL Collection of information and statistics from companies
615. Power of Government to direct companies to furnish information or statistics.
(1) The Central Government may, by order, require companies generally, or any
class of companies, or any company, to furnish such information or statistics
with regard to their or its constitution or working, and within such time, as
may be specified in the order.
(2) (a) Every order under sub- section (1) addressed to companies generally or
to any class of companies, shall be published in the Official Gazette and in
such other manner, if any, as the Central Government may think fit.
(b) The date of publication of the order in the Official Gazette shall be
deemed to be the date on which the demand for information or statistics is
made on such companies or class of companies, as the case may be.
(3) Every order under sub- section (1) addressed to an individual company
shall be served on it in the manner laid down in section 51.
(4) For the purpose of satisfying itself that any information or statistics
furnished by a company in pursuance of any order under sub- section (1) is
correct and complete, the Central Government may require such company-
(a) to produce such records or documents in its possession or under its
control for inspection, before such officer and at such time as may be
specified by the Central Government; or
(b) to furnish such further information as may be specified by the Central
Government and within such time as may be fixed by it.
(5) The Central Government may also, by order, direct an inquiry to be made by
any person or persons named in the order-
(a) for the purpose of obtaining any information or statistics which a company
has failed to furnish as required of it by an order under sub- section (1); or
(b) for the purpose of satisfying itself that any information or statistics
furnished by a company in pursuance of an
order made under sub- section (1) is correct and complete; and in so far as
such information or statistics may be found to be incorrect or incomplete for
the purpose of obtaining such information or statistics as may be necessary to
make the information or statistics furnished correct and complete; and a
person or persons so appointed shall, for the purposes of such inquiry, have
such powers as may be prescribed.
(6) If any company fails to comply with an order made under sub- section (1)
or (4), or knowingly furnishes any information or statistics which is
incorrect or incomplete in any material respect, the company, and every
officer thereof who is in default, shall be punishable with imprisonment which
may extend to three months, or with fine which may extend to one thousand
rupees, or with both.
(7) An order requiring any information or statistics to be fur- nished by a
company may also be addressed to any person who is, or has at any time been,
an officer or employee of the company, and all the provisions of this section,
so far as may be, shall apply in relation to such person as they apply in
relation to the company: Provided that no such person shall be punishable
under sub- section (6), unless the Court is satisfied that he was in a
position to comply with the order and made wilful default in doing so.
(8) Where a body corporate incorporated outside India and having established
an office within India, carries on business in India, all references to a
company in this section shall be deemed to include references to the body
corporate in relation, and only in relation, to such business. Application of
Act to Companies governed by Special Acts
616. Application of Act to insurance, banking, electricity supply and other companies governed by special Acts. The provisions of this Act shall apply--
(a) to insurance companies, except in so far as the said provisions are
inconsistent with the provisions of the Insurance Act, 1938 ; (4 of 1938 .)
(b) to banking companies, except in so far as the said provisions are
inconsistent with the provisions of the Bank- ing Companies Act, 1949 ; (10 of
1949 .)
(c) to companies engaged in the generation or supply of electricity, except in
so far as the said provisions are inconsistent with the provisions of 1 The
Indian Electricity Act, 1910 , (9 of 1910 .) or] the Electricity Supply Act,
1948 ; (54 of 1948 .)
(d) to any other company governed by any special Act for the time being in
force, except in so far as the said provisions are inconsistent with the
provisions of such special Act;
(e) 2 to such body corporate, incorporated by any Act for the time being in
force, as the Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette,
specify in this behalf, subject to such exceptions, modifications or
adaptations, as may be specified in the notification.] Application of Act to
Government Companies
617. Definition of" Government company". For the purposes of 3 this Act] Government company means any company in which not less than fifty- one per cent. of the 4 paid up share capital] is held by the Central Government, or by any State Government or Governments, or partly by the Central Government and partly by one or more State Governments 5 and includes a company which is a subsidiary of a Government company as thus defined].
618. 6 Government companies not to have managing agents. No Government company, whether formed before or after the 1st day of April, 1956 , (65 of 1960 .) shall, after the commencement of the Companies (Amendment) Act, 1960 , (65 of 1960 .) appoint or employ, or after the 6 expiry of six months from such commencement, continue the appointment or employment of, any managing agent: Provided that where a company has become a Government company after the 1st day of April, 1956 , nothing in this section shall prevent that company from continuing after the commencement of the Companies (Amendment) Act, 1960 (65 of 1960 ), the appointment or employ- ment of a managing agent appointed or employed before such commence- ment.]
1\. Ins. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 197.
2\. Ins. by Act 41 of 1974, s. 34 (w. e. f. 1- 2- 1975 ).
3\. Subs. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 198, for" sections 618, 619 and 620".
4\. Subs. by s. 198, ibid., for" share capital".
5\. Added by s. 198, ibid.
6\. Subs. by s. 199, ibid., for s. 618.
619. Application of sections 224 to 233 to Government companies.
(1) In the case of a Government company, the following provisions shall apply,
notwithstanding anything contained in sections 224 to 233.
(2) The auditor of a government company shall be appointed or re- appointed by
the Central Government on the advice of the Comptroller Auditor- General of
India: 1 Provided that the limits specified in sub- sections (1B) and (1C) of
section 224 shall apply in relation to the appointment or re- appointment of
an auditor under this sub- section.]
(3) The Comptroller and Auditor- General of India shall have power--
(a) to direct the manner in which the company' s accounts shall be audited by
the auditor appointed in pursuance of sub- section (2) and to give such
auditor instructions in regard to any matter relating to the performance of
his functions as such;
(b) to conduct a supplementary or test audit of the company' s accounts by
such person or persons as he may authorise in this behalf; and for the
purposes of such audit, to require information or additional information to be
furnished to any person or persons so authorised, on such matters, by such
person or persons, and in such form, as the comptroller and Auditor- general
may, by general or special order, direct.
(4) The auditor aforesaid shall submit a copy of his audit report to the
Comptroller and Auditor- General of India who shall have the right to comment
upon, or supplement, the audit report in such manner as he may think fit.
(5) Any such comments upon, or supplement to, the audit report shall be placed
before the annual general meeting of the company at the same time and in the
same manner as the audit report.
1\. Ins. by Act 41 of 1974, s. 35 (w. e. f. 1- 2- 1975 ).
Annual reports on Government companies.
619A. 1 Annual reports on Government companies.
(1) Where the Central Government is a member of a Government company, the
Central Government shall cause an annual report on the working and affairs of
that company to be-
(a) prepared within three months of its annual general meeting before which
the audit report is placed under sub- section (5) of section 619; and
(b) as soon as may be after such preparation, laid before both Houses of
Parliament together with a copy of the audit report and any comments upon, or
supplement to, the audit report, made by the Comptroller and Auditor General
of India.
(2) Where in addition to the Central Government, any State Government is also
a member of a Government company, that State Government shall cause a copy of
the annual report prepared under sub- section (1) to be laid before the House
or both Houses of the State Legislature together with a copy of the audit
report and the comments or supplement referred to in sub- section (1).
(3) Where the Central Government is not a member of a Government company,
every State Government which is a member of that company, or where only one
State Government is a member of the company, that State Government shall cause
an annual report on the working and affairs of the company to be-
(a) prepared within the time specified in sub- section (1); and
(b) as soon as may be after such preparation, laid before the House or both
Houses of the State Legislature with a copy of the audit report and comments
or supplement referred to in sub- section (1).]
Provisions of section 619 to apply to certain companies.
619B. 2 Provisions of section 619 to apply to certain companies. The
provisions of section 619 shall apply to a company in which not less than
fifty- one per cent. of the paid- up share capital is held by one or more of
the following or any combination thereof, as if it were a Government company,
namely:-
(a) the Central Government and one or more Government companies;
(b) any State Government or Governments and one or more Government companies;
1\. Ins. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 200.
2\. Ins. by Act 41 of 1974, s. 36 (w. e. f. 1. 2. 1975 ).
3\. Ins. by Act 31 of 1988, s. 58 (w. e. f. 15. 6. 1988 ).
(c) the Central Government, one or more State Governments and one or more
Government companies;
(d) the Central Government and one or more corporations owned or controlled by
the Central Government;
(e) the Central Government, one or more State Governments and one or more
corporations owned or controlled by the Central Government;
(f) one or more corporations owned or controlled by the Central Government or
the State Government;
(g) more than one Government company.]
620. Power to modify Act in relation to Government companies.
(1) The Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette,
direct that any of the provisions of this Act (other than sections 618, 619
and 1 619A]) specified in the notification:-
(a) shall not apply to any Government company; or
(b) shall apply to any Government company, only with such exceptions,
modifications and adaptations, as may be specified in the notification.
(2) 2 A copy of every notification proposed to be issued under sub- section
(I), shall be laid in draft before each House of Parlia- ment, while it is in
session, for a total period of thirty days which may be comprised in one
session or in two or more successive sessions, and if, before the expiry of
the session immediately following the session or the successive sessions
aforesaid, both Houses agree in disapproving the issue of the notification or
both Houses agree in making any modification in the notification, the
notification shall not be issued or, as the case may be, shall be issued only
in such modified form as may be agreed upon by both the Houses.] 3
Modification of Act in its application to Nidhis and Mutual Benefit Societies
Power to modify Act in its application to Nidhis, etc.
620A. Power to modify Act in its application to Nidhis, etc.
(1) In this section," Nidhi" or" Mutual Benefit Society" means a company which
the Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, declare
to be a Nidhi or Mutual Benefit Society, as the case may be.
1\. Subs. by Act 52 of 1964, s. 3 and Sch II, for" 639".
2\. Subs. by Act 46 of 1977, s. 7, for sub- section (2) (w. e. f. 1- 2- 1975
)..
3\. Ins. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 201.
(2) The Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette,
direct that any of the provisions of this Act specified in the notification-
(a) shall not apply to any Nidhi or Mutual Benefit Society, or
(b) shall apply to any Nidhi or Mutual Benefit Society with such exceptions,
modifications and adaptations as may be specified in the notification.
(3) A copy of every notification issued under sub- section (1) shall be laid
as soon as may be after it is issued, before each House of Parliament.] 2
Special provision as to companies in Jammu and Kashmir
Special provision as to companies in Jammu and Kashmir.
620C. Special provision as to companies in Jammu and Kashmir. The Central
Government may by notification in the Official Gazette, direct that with
effect from the commencement of the Central Laws (Extension to Jammu and
Kashmir) Act, 1968 or any subsequent date, any of the provisions of this Act
specified in the notification shall not apply, or shall apply only with such
exceptions and modifications or adaptations as may be specified in the
notification, to-
(a) any existing company in the State of Jammu and Kashmir;
(b) any company registered in that State under this Act after the commencement
of the Central Laws (Extension to Jammu and Kashmir) Act, 1968 .] Offences
621. Offences against Act to be cognizable only on complaint by Registrar, shareholder or Government.
(1) No court shall take congnizance of any offence against this Act (other
than an offence with respect to which proceedings are instituted under section
545), which is alleged to have been committed by any company or any officer
thereof, except on the complaint in writing of the Registrar, or of a
shareholder of the company, or of a person authorised by the Central
Government in that behalf: Provided that nothing in this sub- section shall
apply to a prosecution by a company of any of its officers.
(1A) 3 Notwithstanding anything contained in the Code of Criminal Procedure,
1898 , (5 of 1898 ) 4 where the complainant under sub- section (1) is the
Registrar or a person authorised by the Central Government, the personal
attendance of the complainant before the Court trying the offence shall not be
necessary unless the Court for reasons to be recorded in writing requires his
personal attendance at the trial.]
(2) Sub- section (1) shall not apply to any action taken by the liquidator of
a company in respect of any offence alleged to have been committed in respect
of any of the matters included in Part VII (sections
1\. For the text of section 620B as applicable to the Union territory of Goa,
Daman and Diu, see Regulation 11 of 1963, s. 9.
2\. Ins. by Act 25 of 1968, s. 2 and Sch. (w. e. f. 15- 8- 1968 ).
3\. Ins. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 202.
4\. See now the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974 ).
425 to 560) or in any other provision of this Act relating to the winding up
of companies.
(3) A liquidator of a company shall not be deemed to be an officer of the
company, within the meaning of sub- section (1).
Composition of certain offences.
621A. 1 Composition of certain offences.
(1) Notwithstanding anything contained in the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973
(2 of 1974 ), any offence punishable under this Act (whether committed by a
company or any officer thereof), not being an offence punishable with
imprisonment only, or with imprisonment and also with fine, may, either before
or after the institution of any prosecution, be compounded by-
(a) the Company Law Board; or
(b) where the maximum amount of fine which may be imposed for such offence
does not exceed five thousand rupees, by the Regional Director, on payment or
credit, by the company or the officer, as the case may be, to the Central
Government of such sum as that Board or the Regional Director, as the case may
be, may specify: Provided that the sum so specified shall not, in any case,
exceed the maximum amount of the fine which may be imposed for the offence so
compounded: Provided further that in specifying the sum required to be paid or
credited for the compounding of an offence under this sub- section, the sum,
if any, paid by way of additional fee under sub- section (2) of section 611
shall be taken into account.
(2) Nothing in sub- section (1) shall apply to an offence com- mitted by a
company or its officer within a period of three years from the date on which a
similar offence committed by it or him was compounded under this section.
Explanation.- For the purposes of this section,-
(a) any second or subsequent offence committed after the expiry of a period of
three years from the date on which the offence was previously compounded,
shall be deemed to be a first offence;
(b) " Regional Director" means a person appointed by the Central Government as
a Regional Director for the purposes of this Act.
(3) Every Regional Director shall exercise the powers to com- pound an
offence, subject to the direction, control and supervision of the Company Law
Board.
(4) (a) Every application for the compounding of an offence shall be made to
the Registrar who shall forward the same, together with his comments thereon,
to the Company Law Board or the Regional Director, as the case may be.
(b) Where any offence is compounded under this section, whether before or
after the institution of any prosecution, an intimation thereof shall be given
by the company to the Registrar within seven days from the date on which the
offence is so compounded.
(c) Where any offence is compounded before the institution of any prosecution,
no prosecution shall be instituted in relation to such offence, either by the
Registrar or by any shareholder of the company or by any person authorised by
the Central Government against the offender in relation to whom the offence is
so compounded.
(d) Where the composition of any offence is made after the institution of any
prosecution, such composition shall be brought by the Registrar in writing, to
the notice of the Court in which the prosecution is pending and on such notice
of the composition of the offence being given, the company or its officer in
relation to whom the offence is so compounded shall be discharged.
(5) The Company Law Board or the Regional Director, as the case may be, while
dealing with a proposal for the compounding of an offence for a default in
compliance with any provision of this Act which requires a company or its
officer to file or register with, or deliver or send to, the Registrar any
return, account or other document, may, direct, by order, if it or he thinks
fit to do so, any officer or other employee of the company to file or register
with, or on payment of the fee, and the additional fee, required to be paid
under section 611, such return, account or other document within such time as
may be specified in the order.
(6) Any officer or other employee of the company who fails to comply with any
order made by the Company Law Board or the Regional Director under sub-
section (5) shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend
to six months, or with fine not exceeding five thousand rupees, or with both.
(7) Notwithstanding anything contained in the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973
(2 of 1974 ),-
(a) any offence which is punishable under this Act with imprisonment or with
fine, or with both, shall be compoundable with the permission of the Court, in
accordance with the procedure laid down in that Act for compounding of
offences;
(b) any offence which is punishable under this Act with imprisonment only or
with imprisonment and also with fine shall not be compoundable.
(8) No offence specified in this section shall be compounded ex- cept under
and in accordance with the provisions of this section.]
622. Jurisdiction to try offences. No Court inferior to that of a Presidency Magistrate or Magistrate of the first class shall try any offence against this Act.
623. Certain offences triable summarily in Presidency towns. If any offence against this Act which is punishable with fine only is committed by any person within a Presidency town, such person may be tried summarily and punished by any Presidency Magistrate of that Presidency town.
624. Offences to be noncognizable. Notwithstanding anything in the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898 (5 of 1898 ) 2, every offence against this Act shall be deemed to be noncognizable within the meaning of the said Code.
Power of Central Government to appoint company prosecutors.
624A. 3 Power of Central Government to appoint company prosecutors.
Notwithstanding anything contained in the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898 (5
of 1898 ) 2, the Central Government may appoint generally or in any case, or
for any specified class of cases in any local area, one or more persons, as
company prosecutors for the conduct of prosecutions arising out of this Act;
and the persons so appointed as company prosecutors shall have all the powers
and privileges conferred by that Code on public prosecutors appointed by a
State Government under section 492 4 of that Code.
Appeal against acquittal.
624B. Appeal against acquittal. Notwithstanding anything contained in the Code
of Criminal Procedure, 1898 (5 of 1898 ) 2, the Central Government may, in any
case arising out of this Act, direct any company prosecutor or authorise any
other person either by name or by virtue of his office. to present an appeal
from an order of acquittal passed by any Court other than a High Court and an
appeal presented by such prosecutor or other person shall be deemed to have
been validly presented to the appellate Court.]
625. Payment of compensation in cases of frivolous or vexatious prosecution.
(1) In respect of any case instituted upon the complaint of a shareholder
against the company or any officer thereof in pursuance of section 621, the
provisions of section 250 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898 (5 of 1898 )
5, shall not apply; and the following provisions shall apply instead.
(2) If the Magistrate by whom any such case is heard discharges or acquits all
or any of the accused, and is of opinion that the accusa-
1\. Ins. by Act 31 of 1988, s. 59 (w. e. f. 31. 5. 1991 ).
2\. See now the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (Act 2 of 1974 ).
3\. Ins. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 203.
4\. See now the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (Act 2 of 1974 ), s. 24.
5\. See now s. 250, ibid.
tion against them or any of them was false and either frivolous or vexatious,
the Magistrate may, by his order of discharge or acquittal, if the shareholder
upon whose complaint the accusation was made is present, call upon him
forthwith to show cause why he should not pay compensation to such accused, or
to each or any of such accused when there is more than one, or if such
shareholder is not present, direct the issue of a summons to him to appear and
show cause as aforesaid.
(3) The Magistrate shall record and consider any cause which such shareholder
may show; and if the Magistrate is satisfied that the accusation was false and
either frivolous or vexatious, he may, for reasons to be recorded, direct that
compensation to such amount as he may determine be paid by such shareholder to
the accused or to each or any of them, not exceeding one thousand rupees in
all.
(4) The Magistrate may, by the order directing payment of the compensation
under sub- section (3), further order that, in default of payment, the
shareholder ordered to pay such compensation shall suffer simple imprisonment
for a term not exceeding two months.
(5) When any person is imprisoned under sub- section (4), the provisions of
sections 68 and 69 of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860 .) shall, so far as
may be, apply.
(6) No person who has been directed to pay compensation under this section
shall, by reason of such order, be exempted from any civil or criminal
liability in respect of the complaint made by him: Provided that any amount
paid to an accused person under this section shall be taken into account in
awarding compensation to such person in any subsequent civil suit relating to
the same matter.
(7) A complainant who has been ordered to pay compensation under sub- section
(3) by a Magistrate may appeal from the order, in so far as it relates to the
payment of compensation, as if such complainant had been convicted on a trial
held by such Magistrate.
(8) Where an order for payment of compensation to an accused person is made,
the compensation shall not be paid to him before the period allowed for the
presentation of the appeal under sub- section (7) has elapsed; or, if an
appeal is presented, before the appeal has been decided.
626. Application of fines. The Court imposing any fine under this Act may direct that the whole or any part thereof shall be applied in or towards payment of the costs of the proceedings, or in or towards the rewarding of the person on whose information or at whose instance the fine is recovered.
627. Production and inspection of books where offence suspected.
(1) If, on an application made to a Judge of a High Court in chambers by the
Public Prosecutor of the State or by the Central Government, 1 or by a company
prosecutor appointed under section 624A] it is shown that there is reasonable
cause to believe that any person has, while he was an officer of a company,
committed an offence in connection with the management of the company' s
affairs, and that evidence of the commission of the offence is to be found in
any books or papers of or under the control of the company, an order may be
made-
(i) authorising any person named therein to inspect the said books or papers
or any of them for the purpose of
1\. Ins. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 204.
investigating, and obtaining evidence of the commission of, the offence; or
(ii) requiring the managing agent, secretaries and treasurers or manager of
the company or such other officer thereof as may be named in the order, to
produce the said books or papers or any of them to a person, and at a place
and time, named in the order.
(2) Sub- section (1) shall apply also in relation to any books or papers of a
person carrying on the business of banking so far as they relate to the
company' s affairs, as it applies to any books or papers of or under the
control of the company, except that no such order as is referred to in clause
(ii) thereof shall be made by virtue of this sub- section.
(3) No appeal shall lie from the decision of a Judge of the High Court under
this section.
628. Penalty for false statements. If in any return, report, certificate, balance sheet, prospectus, statement or other document required by or for the purposes of any of the provisions of this Act, any person makes a statement-
(a) which is false in any material particular, knowing it to be false; or
(b) which omits any material fact knowing it to be material; he shall, save as
otherwise expressly provided in this Act, be punish- able with imprisonment
for a term which may extend to two years, and shall also be liable to fine.
629. Penalty for false evidence. If any person intentionally gives false evidence-
(a) upon any examination upon oath or solemn affirmation, authorised under
this Act; or
(b) in any affidavit, deposition or solemn affirmation, in or about the
winding up of any company under this Act, or otherwise in or about any matter
arising under this Act; he shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term
which may extend to seven years, and shall also be liable to fine.
Penalty where no specific penalty is provided elsewhere in the Act.
629A. 1 Penalty where no specific penalty is provided elsewhere in the Act. If
a Company or any other person contravenes any provision of this Act for which
no punishment- is provided elsewhere in this Act or any condition, limitation
or restriction subject to which any approval, sanction, consent, confirmation,
recognition, direction
1\. Ins. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 205.
or exemption in relation to any matter has been accorded, given or granted,
the company and every officer of the company who is in default or such other
person shall be punishable with fine which may extend to five hundred rupees,
and where the contravention is a continuing one, with a further fine which may
extend to fifty rupees for every day after the first during which the
contravention continues.]
630. Penalty for wrongful withholding of property.
(1) If any officer or employee of a company-
(a) wrongfully obtains possession of any property of a company; or
(b) having any such property in his possession, wrongfully withholds it or
knowingly applies it to purposes other than those expressed or directed in the
articles and authorised by this Act; he shall, on the complaint of the company
or any creditor or contri- butory thereof, be punishable with fine which may
extend to one thousand rupees.
(2) The Court trying the offence may also order such officer or employee to
deliver up or refund, within a time to be fixed by the Court, any such
property wrongfully obtained or wrongfully withheld or knowingly misapplied,
or in default, to suffer imprisonment for a term which may extend to two
years.
631. Penalty for improper use of words" Limited" and" Private Limited". If any person or persons trade or carry on business under any name or title of which the word" Limited" or the words" Private Limited", or any contraction or imitation thereof is or are the last word or words, that person or each of those persons shall, unless duly incorporated with limited liability, or unless duly incorporated as a private company with limited liability, as the case may be, be punishable with fine which may extend to fifty rupees for every day upon which that name or title has been used. Legal Proceedings
632. Power to require limited company to give security for costs. Where a limited company is plaintiff or petitioner in any suit or other legal proceeding, any Court having jurisdiction in the matter may, if there is reason to believe that the company will be unable to pay the costs of the defendant if he is successful in his defence, require sufficient security to be given for those costs, and may stay all proceedings until the security is given.
633. Power of Court to grant relief in certain cases.
(1) If in any proceeding for negligence, default, breach of duty, misfeasance
or breach of trust against an officer of a company it appears to the Court
hearing the case that he is or may be liable in respect of the negligence,
default, breach of duty, misfeasance or breach of trust, but that he has acted
honestly and reasonably, and that having regard to all the circumstances of
the case, including those connected with his appointment, he ought fairly to
be excused, the Court may relieve him, either wholly or partly, from his
liability on such terms as it may think fit: 1 Provided that in a criminal
proceeding under this sub- section, the Court shall have no power to grant
relief from any civil liability which may attach to an officer in respect of
such negligence, default, breach of duty, misfeasance or breach of trust.]
(2) 2 Where any such officer has reason to apprehend that any proceeding will
or might be brought against him in respect of any negligence, default, breach
of duty, misfeasance or breach of trust, he may apply to the High Court for
relief and the High Court on such application shall have the same power to
relieve him as it would have had if it had been a Court before which a
proceeding against that officer for negligence, default, breach of duty,
misfeasance or breach of trust had been brought under sub- section (1).
(3) No Court shall grant any relief to any officer under sub- section (1) or
sub- section (2) unless it has, by notice served in the manner specified by
it, required the Registrar and such other person, if any, as it thinks
necessary, to show cause why such relief should not be granted.]
634. Enforcement of orders of Courts. Any order made by a Court under this Act may be enforced in the same manner as a decree made by the Court in a suit pending therein.
Enforcement of orders of Company Law Board.
634A. 3 Enforcement of orders of Company Law Board. Any order made by the
Company Law Board 4 may be enforced by that Board in the same manner as if it
were a decree made by a Court in a suit pending therein, and it shall be
lawful for that Board to send, in the case of its inability to execute
1\. Ins. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 206.
2\. Subs. by s. 206, ibid., for sub- section (2).
3\. Ins. by Act 46 of 1977, S. 8.
4\. omitted by Act 31 of 1988, s. 60 (w. e. f. 31- 5- 1991 )
such order, to the Court within the local limits of whose jurisdiction,--
(a) in the case of an order against a company, the registered office of the
company is situated, or
(b) in the case of an order against any other person, the person concerned
voluntarily resides, or carries on business or personally works for gain.]
635. Enforcement of orders of one Court by other Courts.
(1) Where any order made by one Court is required to be enforced by another
Court, a certified copy of the order shall be produced to the proper officer
of the Court required to enforce the order.
(2) The production of such certified copy shall be sufficient evidence of the
order.
(3) Upon the production of such certified copy, the Court shall take the
requisite steps for enforcing the order, in the same manner as if it had been
made by itself.
(4) 1 Where any order made by the Company Law Board 2 is reqired to be
enforced by a Court, a certified copy of the order shall be produced to the
proper officer of the Court required to enforce the order and the provisions
of sub- sections (2) and (3) shall, as far as may be, apply to every such
order in the same manner and to the same extent as they apply to an order made
by a Court.]
Protection of acts done in good faith.
635A. 3 Protection of acts done in good faith. No suit, prosecution or other
legal proceeding shall lie against the Government or any officer of Government
or any other person in respect of anything which is in good faith done or
intended to be done in pursuance of this Act or any rules or orders made
thereunder, or in respect of the publication by or under the authority of the
Government or such officer of any report, paper or proceedings.
1\. Ins. by Act 46 of 1977, s. 9.
2\. Omitted by Act 31 of 1988, s. 61 (w. e. f. 31- 5- 1991 ).
3\. Subs. by Act 31 of 1965, s. 58, for section 635A (w. e. f. 15- 10- 1965 ).
Non- disclosure of information in certain cases.
635AA. Non- disclosure of information in certain cases. Notwithstanding
anything contained in any other law for the time being in force, the
Registrar, any officer of Government or any other person shall not be
compelled to disclose to any Court, tribunal or other authority whence he got
any information which-
(a) has led the Central Government to direct a special audit under section
233A or to order an investigation under section 235, 237, 247, 248 or 249; or
(b) is or has been material or relevant in connection with such special audit
or investigation.] 1 Temporary Protection of Employees
Protection of employees during investigation by Inspector or pendencyof
proceeding before Court in certain cases.
635B. Protection of employees during investigation by Inspector or pendency of
proceeding before Court in certain cases.
(1) If-
(a) during the course of any investigation of the affairs and other matters of
or relating to a company, body or person under section 235, section 237 or
section 239 or of the membership and other matters of or relating to a
company, or the ownership of shares in or debentures of a company or body
corporate, or the affairs and other matters of or relating to a company, body
or person, under section 247, section 248 or section 249; or
(b) during the pendency of any proceeding against any person concerned in the
conduct and management of the affairs of a company under Chapter IVA of Part
VI, such company, body or person proposes-
(i) to discharge, or
(ii) to punish, whether by dismissal, removal, reduction in rank or otherwise,
any employee, the company, body or person, as the case may be shall send by
post to the Company Law Board previous intimation in writing of the action
proposed against the employee and if the Company Law Board has any objection
to the action proposed, it shall send by post notice thereof in writing to the
company, body or person concerned.
(2) If the company, body or person concerned does not receive within thirty
days of the sending of the previous intimation of the
1\. Ins. by Act 32 of 1964, s. 2.
action proposed against the employee, any notice of the objection from the
Company Law Board, then and only then, the company, body or person concerned
may proceed to take against the employee the action proposed.
(3) If the company, body or person concerned is dissatisfied with the
objection raised by the Company Law Board, it may, within thirty days of the
receipt of the notice of the objection, prefer an appeal to the 1 Court] in
the prescribed manner and on payment of the prescribed fee.
(4) The decision of the 1 Court] on such appeal shall be final and be binding
on the Company Law Board and on the company, body or person concerned.
(5) For the removal of doubt, it is hereby declared that the provisions of
this section shall have effect without prejudice to the provisions of any
other law for the time being in force.] Reduction of fees payable to company
636. Reduction of fees, charges, etc, payable to company.
(1) A company which is entitled to any specified fee, charge or other sum by
virtue of any provision contained in this Act or in its articles, may reduce
the amount thereof to such extent as it thinks fit; and thereupon such
provision shall, so long as the reduction is in force, have effect as if the
reduced amount had been substituted for the fee, charge or sum specified in
such provision.
(2) Any reduction made under sub- section (1) may, at any time, be cancelled
or varied by the company. Delegation of powers and functions of Central
Government
1\. Subs. by Act 17 of 1967, s. 4 and Sch., for" tribunal" (w. e. f. 1- 7-
1967 ).
2\. Subs. by Act 31 of 1988, s. 62 (w. e. f. 31. 5. 1991 ).
1\. Omitted by Act 31 of 1988, s. 62 (w. e. f. 31. 5. 1991 ).
2\. Ins. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 207 (with retrospective effect).
3\. Subs. by Act 41 of 1974, s. 37 for" Central Government" (w. e. f. 1- 2-
1975 ).
1\. Subs. by Act 41 of 1974, s. 37, for" Central Government" (w. e. f 1- 2-
1975 ).
2\. Ins. by s. 37, ibid., (w. e. f. 1- 2- 1975 ).
3\. Omitted by Act 31 of 1988, s. 63 (w. e. f. 15. 7. 1988 ).
4\. Ins. by Act 41 of 1974 s. 38, (w. e. f. 1- 2- 1975 ).
638. Annual report by Central Government. The Central Government shall cause a general annual report on the working and administration of this Act to be prepared and laid before both Houses of Parliament, within one year of the close of the year to which the report relates. 2
639. [ Annual reports on Government companies to be placed before Parliament, etc.] Rep. by the Companies (Amendment) Act, 1960 (65 of 1960 ), s. 208. Validation of registration of firms in certain cases
640. Validation of registration of firms as members of charitable and other companies. Any firm which stood registered at the commencement of this Act, as a member of any association or company licensed under section 26 of the Indian Companies Act, 1913 (7 of 1913 ), shall be deemed to have been validly so registered with effect on and from the date of its registration.
1\. Ins. by Act 31 of 1965, s. 59 (w. e. f. 15- 10- 1965 ).
2\. The heading" Annual Reports on Government Companies" omitted by Act 65 of
1960, s. 208.
1 Computation of time for filing orders of 2 Court or the Company Law Board]
Exclusion of time required in obtaining copies of orders of Court.
640A. Exclusion of time required in obtaining copies of orders of Court.
Except as expressly provided in this behalf elsewhere in this Act, where by
any provision of this Act, any order of the Court is required to be filed with
the Registrar, or a company or any other person within a period specified
therein, then, in computing that period, the time taken in drawing up the
order and in obtaining a copy thereof shall be excluded.] Schedules, Forms and
Rules
Forms of and procedure in relation to, certain applications.
640B. 3 Forms of and procedure in relation to, certain applications.
(1) Every application made to the Central Government under section 259, 268,
269, 310, 311, 326, 328, 329, 332, 343, 345, 4 346 or 352] shall be in such
form as may be prescribed.
(2) (a) Before any application is made by a company to the Central Government
under any of the sections aforesaid, there shall be issued by or on behalf of
the company a general notice to the members thereof, indicating the nature of
the application proposed to be made.
(b) Such notice shall be published at least once in a newspaper in the
principal language of the district in which the registered office of the
company is situate and circulating in that district, and at least once in
English in an English newspaper circulating in that district.
(c) Copies of the notices, together with a certificate by the company as to
the due publication thereof, shall be attached to the application.
(d) Nothing in clause (a), (b) or (c) shall apply to a private company which
is not the managing agent of a public company.]
641. Power to alter Schedules.
(1) Subject to the provisions of this section, the Central Government may, by
notification in the Official Gazette, alter any of the regulations, rules,
tables, forms and other provisions contained in any of the Schedules to this
Act, except Schedules XI and XII.
(2) Any alteration notified under sub- section (1) shall have effect as if
enacted in this Act and shall come into force on the date of the notification,
unless the notification otherwise directs:
1\. Ins. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 209.
2\. Subs. by Act 31 of 1988, s. 64 (w. e. f. 31. 5. 1991 ).
3\. Ins. by Act 31 of 1965, s. 60 (w. e. f. 15- 10- 1965 ).
4\. Subs. by Act 31 of 1988, s. 65, (w. e. f. 31. 5. 1991 ).
Provided that no such alteration in Table A of Schedule I shall apply to any
company registered before the date of such alteration.
(3) 1 Every alteration made by the Central Government under sub- section (1)
shall be laid as soon as may be after it is made before each House of
Parliament while it is in session for a total period of thirty days which may
be 2 comprised in one session or in two or more successive sessions, and if,
before the expiry of the session immediately following the session or the
successive sessions afore- said,] both Houses agree in making any modification
in the alteration, or both Houses agree that the alteration should not be
made, the alteration shall thereafter have effect only in such modified form
or be of no effect, as the case may be, so, however, that any such modi-
fication or annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity of anything
previously done in pursuance of that alteration.]
642. Power of Central Government to make rules.
(1) In addition to the powers conferred by section 641, the Central Government
may, by notification in the Official Gazette, make rules-
(a) for all or any of the matters which by this Act are to be, or may be,
prescribed by the Central Government; and
(b) generally to carry out the purposes of this Act.
(2) 4 Any rule made under sub- section (1) may provide that a contravention
thereof shall be punishable with fine which may extend to five hundred rupees
and where the contravention is a continuing one, with a further fine which may
extend to fifty rupees for every day after the first during which such
contravention continues.
(3) Every rule made by the Central Government under sub- section (1) shall be
laid as soon as may be after it is made before each House of Parliament while
it is in session for a total period of thirty days which may be 5 comprised in
one session or in two or more successive sessions, and if, before the expiry
of the session
1\. Subs, by Act 65 of 1960, s. 210, for sub- section (3).
2\. Subs. by Act 41 of 1974, s. 39. for certain words (w. e. f. 1- 2- 1975 ).
3\. For the Companies (Central Government' s) General Rules and Forms, 1956,
see Gazette of India. Extraordinary, 1956, Pt. II, Sec. 3. p. 298 1.
4\. Subs, by Act 65 of 1960, s. 211. for sub- sections (2) and (3).
5\. Subs. by Act 41 of 1974, s. 40. for certain words (w. e. f. 1- 2- 1975 ).
immediately following the session or the successive sessions afore- said,]
both Houses agree in making any modification in the rule or both Houses agree
that the rule should not be made, the rule shall thereafter have effect only
in such modified form or be of no effect, as the case may be, so, however,
that any such modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to the
validity of anything previously done under that rule.].
643. Power of Supreme Court to make rules.
(1) The Supreme Court, after consulting the High Courts,--
(a) shall make rules providing for all matters relating to the winding up of
companies which, by this Act, are to be prescribed; and may make rules
providing for all such matters as may be prescribed, except those reserved to
the Central Government by sub- section (5) of section 503, 1 sub- section (3)
of section 550, section 552 and sub- section (3) of section 555]; and
(b) may make rules consistent with the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (5 of
1908 )-
(i) as to the mode of proceedings to be had for winding up a company in High
Courts and in Courts subordinate thereto;
1\. Subs. by Act 65 of 1960 s. 212 for certain words and figures.
(ii) for the voluntary winding up of companies, whether by members or by
creditors;
(iii) for the holding of meetings of creditors and members in connection with
proceedings under section 391;
(iv) for giving effect to the provisions of this Act as to the reduction of
the capital 1 ; and
(v) generally for all applications to be made to the Court under the
provisions of this Act.
(2) Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power, the Supreme
Court may, by such rules, enable or require all or any of the powers and
duties conferred and imposed on the Court by this Act, in respect of the
following matters, that is to say:-
(a) the holding and conducting of meetings to ascertain the wishes of
creditors and contributories;
(b) the settling of lists of contributories and the rectifying of the register
of members where required, and collecting and applying the assets;
(c) the payment, delivery, conveyance, surrender or transfer of money,
property, books or papers to the liquidator;
(d) the making of calls; and
(e) the fixing of a time within which debts and claims shall be proved; to be
exercised or performed by the Official Liquidator or any other liquidator as
an officer of the Court, and subject to the control of the Court: Provided
that the liquidator shall not, without the special leave of the Court, rectify
the register of members or make any call.
(3) Until rules are made by the Supreme Court as aforesaid, all rules made by
any High Court on the matters referred to in this section and in force at the
commencement of this Act, shall continue to be in force in so far as they are
not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act in that High Court and in
courts subordinate thereto.
(4) 2 All rules made by the Central Government under sub- section (1) of
section 549 and in force immediately before the
1\. The words" and the sub- division of the shares of a company" omitted by
Act 65 of 1960, s. 212.
2\. Ins. by s. 212, ibid.
commencement of the Companies (Amendment) Act, 1960 (65 of 1960 ), shall
continue in force and be deemed to have been made by the Supreme Court unless
and until they are superseded by rules made by the Supreme Court after such
commencement.] Repeals and savings
644. Repeal of Acts specified in Schedule XII. The enactments mentioned in Schedule XII are hereby repealed.
645. Saving of orders, rules, etc., in force at commencement of Act. Nothing in this Act shall affect any order, rule, regulation, appointment, conveyance, mortgage, deed, document or agreement made, fee directed, resolution passed, direction given, proceeding taken, instrument executed or issued, or thing done, under or in pursuance of any previous companies law; but any such order, rule, regulation, appointment, conveyance, mortgage, deed, document, agreement, fee, resolution, direction, proceeding, instrument or thing shall, if in force at the commencement of this Act, continue to be in force, and so far as it could have been made, directed, passed, given, taken, executed, issued or done under or in pursuance of this Act, shall have effect as if made, directed, passed, given, taken, executed, issued or done under or in pursuance of this Act.
646. Saving of operation of section 138 of Act 7 of 1913 . Nothing in this Act shall affect the operation of section 138 of the Indian Companies Act, 1913 (7 of 1913 ), as respects inspectors, or as resp- ects the continuation of an inspection begun by inspectors, appoin- ted before the commencement of this Act; and the provisions of this Act shall apply to or in relation to a report of inspectors appointed under the said section 138 as they apply to or in relation to a report of inspectors appointed under section 235 or 237 of this Act.
647. Saving of pending proceedings for winding up. Where the winding up of a company has commenced before the commencement of this Act-
(i) sub- section (7) of section 555 shall apply in respect of any moneys paid
into the Companies Liquidation Account whether before or after such
commencement; and
(ii) the other provisions with respect to winding up contained in this Act
shall not apply, but the company shall be wound up in the same manner and with
the same incidents as if this Act had not been passed:
1 Provided that where the proceedings in any such winding up are pending at
the commencement of the Companies (Amendment) Act, 1960 ,-
(a) sections 463, 502, 515 and 524 shall, as far as may be, also apply in
relation thereto;
(b) the liquidator appointed by the Court and functioning in any such winding
up shall in such manner and at such time as may be prescribed by the Central
Government, pay the moneys received by him as such liquidator, into the public
account of India in the Reserve Bank of India.]
648. Saving of prosecutions instituted by liquidator or Court under section 237 of Act 7 of 1913 . Nothing in this Act shall affect any prosecution instituted or ordered by the Court to be instituted under section 237 of the Indian Companies Act, 1913 (7 of 1913 ); and the Court shall have the same power of directing how any costs, charges, and expenses properly incurred in any such prosecution are to be defrayed as it would have had, if this Act had not been passed.
649. Construction of references to former enactments in documents. Any document referring to any former enactment relating to companies shall be construed as referring to the corresponding enactment in this Act.
650. [ Construction of" registrar of joint stock companies" in Act 21 of 1860 .] Rep. by the Companies (Amendment) Act, 1960 (65 of 1960 ), s. 214.
651. Construction of references to extraordinary resolution in articles, etc. Any reference to an extraordinary resolution in the articles of a company, or in any resolution passed in general meeting by the company, or in any other instrument, or in any law in force immediately before the commencement of this Act, shall, with effect on and from such commencement, be construed as a reference to a special resolution.
652. Appointment under previous companies laws to have effect as if made under Act. Any person appointed to any office under or by virtue of any previous companies law shall be deemed to have been appointed to that office under or by virtue of this Act.
1\. Ins. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 213.
653. Former registration offices continued. The offices existing at the commencement of this Act for the registration of companies shall be continued as if they had been established under this Act.
654. Registers under previous companies laws to be deemed to be part of registers under Act. Any register kept under the provisions of any previous companies law shall be deemed to be part of the register to be kept under the corresponding provisions of this Act.
655. Funds and accounts under Act to be in continuation of funds and accounts under previous companies law. All funds constituted and accounts kept under this Act shall be deemed to be in continuation of the corresponding funds constituted and accounts kept under previous companies laws.
656. Saving of incorporation under repealed Acts. Nothing in this Act shall affect the incorporation of any company registered under any enactment hereby repealed.
657. Saving of certain Tables under previous companies laws. Nothing in this Act shall affect-
(a) Table B in the Schedule annexed to Act No. XIX of 1857 , or any part
thereof, so far as the same applies to any company existing at the
commencement of this Act;
(b) Table A in the First Schedule annexed to the Indian Companies Act, 1882 (6
of 1882 ), or any part thereof, so far as the same applies to any company
existing at the commen- cement of this Act;
(c) Table A in the First Schedule to the Indian Companies Act, 1913 (7 of 1913
), either as originally contained in that Sch- edule or as altered in
pursuance of section 151 of that Act, so far as the same applies to any
company existing at the commencement of this Act.
658. Section 6 of the General Clauses Act, 1897 to apply in addition to sections 645 to 657 of Act. The mention of particular matters in sections 645 to 657 or in any other provision of this Act shall not prejudice the general application of section 6 of the General Clauses Act, 1897 (10 of 1897 ), with respect to the effect of repeals.
650. [ Construction of" registrar of joint stock companies" in Act 21 of 1860 .] Rep. by the Companies (Amendment) Act, 1960 (65 of 1960 ), s. 214.
651. Construction of references to extraordinary resolution in articles, etc. Any reference to an extraordinary resolution in the articles of a company, or in any resolution passed in general meeting by the company, or in any other instrument, or in any law in force immediately before the commencement of this Act, shall, with effect on and from such commencement, be construed as a reference to a special resolution.
652. Appointment under previous companies laws to have effect as if made under Act. Any person appointed to any office under or by virtue of any previous companies law shall be deemed to have been appointed to that office under or by virtue of this Act.
1\. Ins. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 213.
653. Former registration offices continued. The offices existing at the commencement of this Act for the registration of companies shall be continued as if they had been established under this Act.
654. Registers under previous companies laws to be deemed to be part of registers under Act. Any register kept under the provisions of any previous companies law shall be deemed to be part of the register to be kept under the corresponding provisions of this Act.
655. Funds and accounts under Act to be in continuation of funds and accounts under previous companies law. All funds constituted and accounts kept under this Act shall be deemed to be in continuation of the corresponding funds constituted and accounts kept under previous companies laws.
656. Saving of incorporation under repealed Acts. Nothing in this Act shall affect the incorporation of any company registered under any enactment hereby repealed.
657. Saving of certain Tables under previous companies laws. Nothing in this Act shall affect-
(a) Table B in the Schedule annexed to Act No. XIX of 1857 , or any part
thereof, so far as the same applies to any company existing at the
commencement of this Act;
(b) Table A in the First Schedule annexed to the Indian Companies Act, 1882 (6
of 1882 ), or any part thereof, so far as the same applies to any company
existing at the commen- cement of this Act;
(c) Table A in the First Schedule to the Indian Companies Act, 1913 (7 of 1913
framed or as altered from time to time in pursuance of any previous companies
law or of this Act, including, so far as they apply to the company, the
regulations contained, as the case may be, in Table B in the Schedule annexed
to Act No. 19 of 1857 or in Table A in the First Schedule annexed to the
Indian Companies Act, 1882 , (6 of 1882 .) or in Table A in the First
1\. This Act has been extended to Goa, Daman and Diu by Regulation 12 of 1962
(with modifications), s. 3 and Sch.: to Dadra and Nagar Haveli by Regulation 6
of 1963, s. 2 and Sch. I and to Pondicherry by Regulation 7 of 1963, s. 3 and
Sch. 1. The provisions of this Act shall apply to Goa, Daman and Diu, subject
to the exceptions, modifications and adaptations contained in the Schedule to
G. S. R. 615, dated the 24th April, 1965 (Gazette of India, Pt. II, Sec. 3
(i), p. 670). Amended in its application to Goa, Daman and Diu by Reg. 11 of
1963, s. 9.
2\. 1st April, 1956, vide Notification No. S. R. O. 612, dated 8- 3- 1956,
Gazette of India, Extraordinary, 1956, Pt. II, Sec. 3, p. 473.
3\. Subs. by Act 62 of 1956 s. 2 and Sch., for sub- section (3) (w. e. f. 1-
11- 1956 ).
4\. Proviso omitted by Act 25 of 1968, s. 2 and Sch. (w. e. f. 15- 8- 1968 ).
5\. Ins. by Act 31 of 1965, s. 2 (w. e. f. 15- 10- 1965 ).
6\. The word" further" omitted by Act 25 of 1968, s. 2 and Sch. (w. e. f. 15-
650. [ Construction of" registrar of joint stock companies" in Act 21 of 1860 .] Rep. by the Companies (Amendment) Act, 1960 (65 of 1960 ), s. 214.
651. Construction of references to extraordinary resolution in articles, etc. Any reference to an extraordinary resolution in the articles of a company, or in any resolution passed in general meeting by the company, or in any other instrument, or in any law in force immediately before the commencement of this Act, shall, with effect on and from such commencement, be construed as a reference to a special resolution.
652. Appointment under previous companies laws to have effect as if made under Act. Any person appointed to any office under or by virtue of any previous companies law shall be deemed to have been appointed to that office under or by virtue of this Act.
1\. Ins. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 213.
653. Former registration offices continued. The offices existing at the commencement of this Act for the registration of companies shall be continued as if they had been established under this Act.
654. Registers under previous companies laws to be deemed to be part of registers under Act. Any register kept under the provisions of any previous companies law shall be deemed to be part of the register to be kept under the corresponding provisions of this Act.
655. Funds and accounts under Act to be in continuation of funds and accounts under previous companies law. All funds constituted and accounts kept under this Act shall be deemed to be in continuation of the corresponding funds constituted and accounts kept under previous companies laws.
656. Saving of incorporation under repealed Acts. Nothing in this Act shall affect the incorporation of any company registered under any enactment hereby repealed.
657. Saving of certain Tables under previous companies laws. Nothing in this Act shall affect-
(a) Table B in the Schedule annexed to Act No. XIX of 1857 , or any part
thereof, so far as the same applies to any company existing at the
commencement of this Act;
(b) Table A in the First Schedule annexed to the Indian Companies Act, 1882 (6
of 1882 ), or any part thereof, so far as the same applies to any company
existing at the commen- cement of this Act;
(c) Table A in the First Schedule to the Indian Companies Act, 1913 (7 of 1913
framed or as altered from time to time in pursuance of any previous companies
law or of this Act, including, so far as they apply to the company, the
regulations contained, as the case may be, in Table B in the Schedule annexed
to Act No. 19 of 1857 or in Table A in the First Schedule annexed to the
Indian Companies Act, 1882 , (6 of 1882 .) or in Table A in the First
1\. This Act has been extended to Goa, Daman and Diu by Regulation 12 of 1962
(with modifications), s. 3 and Sch.: to Dadra and Nagar Haveli by Regulation 6
of 1963, s. 2 and Sch. I and to Pondicherry by Regulation 7 of 1963, s. 3 and
Sch. 1. The provisions of this Act shall apply to Goa, Daman and Diu, subject
to the exceptions, modifications and adaptations contained in the Schedule to
G. S. R. 615, dated the 24th April, 1965 (Gazette of India, Pt. II, Sec. 3
(i), p. 670). Amended in its application to Goa, Daman and Diu by Reg. 11 of
1963, s. 9.
2\. 1st April, 1956, vide Notification No. S. R. O. 612, dated 8- 3- 1956,
Gazette of India, Extraordinary, 1956, Pt. II, Sec. 3, p. 473.
3\. Subs. by Act 62 of 1956 s. 2 and Sch., for sub- section (3) (w. e. f. 1-
11- 1956 ).
4\. Proviso omitted by Act 25 of 1968, s. 2 and Sch. (w. e. f. 15- 8- 1968 ).
5\. Ins. by Act 31 of 1965, s. 2 (w. e. f. 15- 10- 1965 ).
6\. The word" further" omitted by Act 25 of 1968, s. 2 and Sch. (w. e. f. 15-
650. [ Construction of" registrar of joint stock companies" in Act 21 of 1860 .] Rep. by the Companies (Amendment) Act, 1960 (65 of 1960 ), s. 214.
651. Construction of references to extraordinary resolution in articles, etc. Any reference to an extraordinary resolution in the articles of a company, or in any resolution passed in general meeting by the company, or in any other instrument, or in any law in force immediately before the commencement of this Act, shall, with effect on and from such commencement, be construed as a reference to a special resolution.
652. Appointment under previous companies laws to have effect as if made under Act. Any person appointed to any office under or by virtue of any previous companies law shall be deemed to have been appointed to that office under or by virtue of this Act.
1\. Ins. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 213.
653. Former registration offices continued. The offices existing at the commencement of this Act for the registration of companies shall be continued as if they had been established under this Act.
654. Registers under previous companies laws to be deemed to be part of registers under Act. Any register kept under the provisions of any previous companies law shall be deemed to be part of the register to be kept under the corresponding provisions of this Act.
655. Funds and accounts under Act to be in continuation of funds and accounts under previous companies law. All funds constituted and accounts kept under this Act shall be deemed to be in continuation of the corresponding funds constituted and accounts kept under previous companies laws.
656. Saving of incorporation under repealed Acts. Nothing in this Act shall affect the incorporation of any company registered under any enactment hereby repealed.
657. Saving of certain Tables under previous companies laws. Nothing in this Act shall affect-
(a) Table B in the Schedule annexed to Act No. XIX of 1857 , or any part
thereof, so far as the same applies to any company existing at the
commencement of this Act;
(b) Table A in the First Schedule annexed to the Indian Companies Act, 1882 (6
of 1882 ), or any part thereof, so far as the same applies to any company
existing at the commen- cement of this Act;
(c) Table A in the First Schedule to the Indian Companies Act, 1913 (7 of 1913
framed or as altered from time to time in pursuance of any previous companies
law or of this Act, including, so far as they apply to the company, the
regulations contained, as the case may be, in Table B in the Schedule annexed
to Act No. 19 of 1857 or in Table A in the First Schedule annexed to the
Indian Companies Act, 1882 , (6 of 1882 .) or in Table A in the First
1\. This Act has been extended to Goa, Daman and Diu by Regulation 12 of 1962
(with modifications), s. 3 and Sch.: to Dadra and Nagar Haveli by Regulation 6
of 1963, s. 2 and Sch. I and to Pondicherry by Regulation 7 of 1963, s. 3 and
Sch. 1. The provisions of this Act shall apply to Goa, Daman and Diu, subject
to the exceptions, modifications and adaptations contained in the Schedule to
G. S. R. 615, dated the 24th April, 1965 (Gazette of India, Pt. II, Sec. 3
(i), p. 670). Amended in its application to Goa, Daman and Diu by Reg. 11 of
1963, s. 9.
2\. 1st April, 1956, vide Notification No. S. R. O. 612, dated 8- 3- 1956,
Gazette of India, Extraordinary, 1956, Pt. II, Sec. 3, p. 473.
3\. Subs. by Act 62 of 1956 s. 2 and Sch., for sub- section (3) (w. e. f. 1-
11- 1956 ).
4\. Proviso omitted by Act 25 of 1968, s. 2 and Sch. (w. e. f. 15- 8- 1968 ).
5\. Ins. by Act 31 of 1965, s. 2 (w. e. f. 15- 10- 1965 ).
6\. The word" further" omitted by Act 25 of 1968, s. 2 and Sch. (w. e. f. 15-
8- 1968 ).
Schedule annexed to the Indian Companies Act, 1913 , or in Table A in Schedule
I annexed to this Act;
(3) " associate", in relation to a managing agent, means any of the following,
and no others:-
(a) where the managing agent is an individual. any partner or relative of such
individual; any firm in which such individual, partner or relative is a
partner; any private company of which such individual or any such partner,
relative or firm is the managing agent or secretaries and treasurers or a
director or the manager; and any body corporate at any general meeting of
which not less than one- third of the total voting power in regard to any
650. [ Construction of" registrar of joint stock companies" in Act 21 of 1860 .] Rep. by the Companies (Amendment) Act, 1960 (65 of 1960 ), s. 214.
651. Construction of references to extraordinary resolution in articles, etc. Any reference to an extraordinary resolution in the articles of a company, or in any resolution passed in general meeting by the company, or in any other instrument, or in any law in force immediately before the commencement of this Act, shall, with effect on and from such commencement, be construed as a reference to a special resolution.
652. Appointment under previous companies laws to have effect as if made under Act. Any person appointed to any office under or by virtue of any previous companies law shall be deemed to have been appointed to that office under or by virtue of this Act.
1\. Ins. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 213.
653. Former registration offices continued. The offices existing at the commencement of this Act for the registration of companies shall be continued as if they had been established under this Act.
654. Registers under previous companies laws to be deemed to be part of registers under Act. Any register kept under the provisions of any previous companies law shall be deemed to be part of the register to be kept under the corresponding provisions of this Act.
655. Funds and accounts under Act to be in continuation of funds and accounts under previous companies law. All funds constituted and accounts kept under this Act shall be deemed to be in continuation of the corresponding funds constituted and accounts kept under previous companies laws.
656. Saving of incorporation under repealed Acts. Nothing in this Act shall affect the incorporation of any company registered under any enactment hereby repealed.
657. Saving of certain Tables under previous companies laws. Nothing in this Act shall affect-
(a) Table B in the Schedule annexed to Act No. XIX of 1857 , or any part
thereof, so far as the same applies to any company existing at the
commencement of this Act;
(b) Table A in the First Schedule annexed to the Indian Companies Act, 1882 (6
of 1882 ), or any part thereof, so far as the same applies to any company
existing at the commen- cement of this Act;
(c) Table A in the First Schedule to the Indian Companies Act, 1913 (7 of 1913
framed or as altered from time to time in pursuance of any previous companies
law or of this Act, including, so far as they apply to the company, the
regulations contained, as the case may be, in Table B in the Schedule annexed
to Act No. 19 of 1857 or in Table A in the First Schedule annexed to the
Indian Companies Act, 1882 , (6 of 1882 .) or in Table A in the First
1\. This Act has been extended to Goa, Daman and Diu by Regulation 12 of 1962
(with modifications), s. 3 and Sch.: to Dadra and Nagar Haveli by Regulation 6
of 1963, s. 2 and Sch. I and to Pondicherry by Regulation 7 of 1963, s. 3 and
Sch. 1. The provisions of this Act shall apply to Goa, Daman and Diu, subject
to the exceptions, modifications and adaptations contained in the Schedule to
G. S. R. 615, dated the 24th April, 1965 (Gazette of India, Pt. II, Sec. 3
(i), p. 670). Amended in its application to Goa, Daman and Diu by Reg. 11 of
1963, s. 9.
2\. 1st April, 1956, vide Notification No. S. R. O. 612, dated 8- 3- 1956,
Gazette of India, Extraordinary, 1956, Pt. II, Sec. 3, p. 473.
3\. Subs. by Act 62 of 1956 s. 2 and Sch., for sub- section (3) (w. e. f. 1-
11- 1956 ).
4\. Proviso omitted by Act 25 of 1968, s. 2 and Sch. (w. e. f. 15- 8- 1968 ).
5\. Ins. by Act 31 of 1965, s. 2 (w. e. f. 15- 10- 1965 ).
6\. The word" further" omitted by Act 25 of 1968, s. 2 and Sch. (w. e. f. 15-
8- 1968 ).
Schedule annexed to the Indian Companies Act, 1913 , or in Table A in Schedule
I annexed to this Act;
(3) " associate", in relation to a managing agent, means any of the following,
and no others:-
(a) where the managing agent is an individual. any partner or relative of such
individual; any firm in which such individual, partner or relative is a
partner; any private company of which such individual or any such partner,
relative or firm is the managing agent or secretaries and treasurers or a
director or the manager; and any body corporate at any general meeting of
which not less than one- third of the total voting power in regard to any
650. [ Construction of" registrar of joint stock companies" in Act 21 of 1860 .] Rep. by the Companies (Amendment) Act, 1960 (65 of 1960 ), s. 214.
651. Construction of references to extraordinary resolution in articles, etc. Any reference to an extraordinary resolution in the articles of a company, or in any resolution passed in general meeting by the company, or in any other instrument, or in any law in force immediately before the commencement of this Act, shall, with effect on and from such commencement, be construed as a reference to a special resolution.
652. Appointment under previous companies laws to have effect as if made under Act. Any person appointed to any office under or by virtue of any previous companies law shall be deemed to have been appointed to that office under or by virtue of this Act.
1\. Ins. by Act 65 of 1960, s. 213.
653. Former registration offices continued. The offices existing at the commencement of this Act for the registration of companies shall be continued as if they had been established under this Act.
654. Registers under previous companies laws to be deemed to be part of registers under Act. Any register kept under the provisions of any previous companies law shall be deemed to be part of the register to be kept under the corresponding provisions of this Act.
655. Funds and accounts under Act to be in continuation of funds and accounts under previous companies law. All funds constituted and accounts kept under this Act shall be deemed to be in continuation of the corresponding funds constituted and accounts kept under previous companies laws.
656. Saving of incorporation under repealed Acts. Nothing in this Act shall affect the incorporation of any company registered under any enactment hereby repealed.
657. Saving of certain Tables under previous companies laws. Nothing in this Act shall affect-
(a) Table B in the Schedule annexed to Act No. XIX of 1857 , or any part
thereof, so far as the same applies to any company existing at the
commencement of this Act;
(b) Table A in the First Schedule annexed to the Indian Companies Act, 1882 (6
of 1882 ), or any part thereof, so far as the same applies to any company
existing at the commen- cement of this Act;
(c) Table A in the First Schedule to the Indian Companies Act, 1913 (7 of 1913
