Income Tax Appellate Tribunal - Bangalore
M/S Google India Private Limited, ... vs Dy. D.I.T., Bangalore on 23 October,
2017
                                                                        Page - 1
    IT(TP)A.1511 to 1516/Bang/2013
            IN THE INCOME TAX APPELLATE TRIBUNAL
                     'C' BENCH, BENGALURU
    BEFORE SHRI JASON P.BOAZ, ACCOUNTANT MEMBER
                           and
         SHRI LALIET KUMAR, JUDICIAL MEMBER
                         IT(TP)A.1511 to 1518/Bang/2013
                         (Asst. Years 2007-08 to 2012-13)
    M/s.Google India Private Ltd.
    No.3, RMZ Infinity Tower-E, 4th floor,
    Old Madras Road,
    Bengaluru-560016.                              ...        Appellant
    PAN:AACCG 0527D
           Vs.
    Addl. Commissioner of Income-tax,
    Range-11,
127\. In the result, all the six appeals of the assessee are dismissed. Order
pronounced in the open court on 23rd October, 2017 Sd/- Sd/-
      (JASON P. BOAZ)                              (LALIET KUMAR)
    ACCOUNTANT MEMBER                             JUDICIAL MEMBER
    Place      : Bengaluru
    D a t e d : 23/10/2017
    MCN*
    Copy to :
          1 Appellant
          2 Respondent
          3 CIT(A)-
          4 CIT
          5 DR, ITAT, Bangalore.
          6 Guard file
                                                         By order
                                                Senior Private Secretary
    Range-11,
    Bengaluru.                                     ... Respondent
     Assessee by : Shri Percy Pardiwala, Sr. Counsel, Smt. Tanmayee
                   Rajkumar, Advocate & Shri. Vinay Mangla, CA.
     Revenue by : Shri K.V.Arvind, Standing Counsel for Department
                   Date of hearing : 31/08/2017
            Date of pronouncement: 23/10/2017
                       O R D E R
PER LALIET KUMAR, JM :
These are in all six appeals are by the assessee against the order of the
CIT(A) -IV, Bengaluru, dt.20.09.2013, for the assessment years 2007-08 to
2012-13.
Page - 2 IT(TP)A.1511 to 1516/Bang/2013
02\. The assessee raised the following common grounds of appeal in ITA
Nos.1511 to 1516/Bang/2013 for the assessment years 2007-08 to 2012-13.
Ground 1: Erred in holding that the Ad Words program is a complex computer
software, the right to use has been granted to the Appellant without
appreciating the fact that Adwords program is a standard advertisement product
through which the advertiser is able to publish its advertisement on the
Google website.
Ground 2: Erred in holding that Google Ireland Limited, Ireland has granted
the Appellant the right to use of the Adwords program, which is a complex
computer program without parting with the copyright, thus granting license to
use the software without appreciating the fact that the Appellant is only
involved in marketing and distribution of advertisement space to the Indian
advertisers and that it is GIL which uses the back end process/ program for
processing and displaying the advertisement.
Ground 3: Erred in holding that the amount payable towards purchase of
advertisement space to be in the nature of 'Royalty' under the Act, even after
acknowledging that the Appellant is distributing advertisement space to the
advertisers in India.
Ground 4: Erred in confirming that Distribution Agreement cannot be read
without the service agreement (ITES agreement) between the Appellant and GIL
and the Appellant has been granted right to use intellectual property owned by
GIL without appreciating the fact that ITES service agreement is a separate
agreement under which the Appellant performs an independent global outsourcing
function for GIL for which it receives consideration and is not linked in any
manner to the function of sale of advertisement space to the Indian
advertisers being performed by the Appellant. Ground, 5: Erred in confirming
that .the distribution rights granted are itself IP rights covered by "similar
property"
Page - 3 IT(TP)A.1511 to 1516/Bang/2013 used in See 9(1)(vi) of the Act after
holding that as per the distribution agreement GIL has agreed to provide
advertisement space to the Appellant through Adwords program for distribution
to the Indian Advertisers. Ground 6: Erred in holding the amount payable by
the Appellant to GIL as Royalty by attributing the same towards right to use
of Trademark even after concluding that the assesse company was permitted to
use the trademarks of Google for the purpose of marketing and distribution of
Adwords program.
Ground 7: Without appreciating the facts of the case, erred in holding that
the amount payable by the Appellant to GIL towards purchase of advertisement
space to be in the nature of 'royalty' under Section 9(1)(vi) of the Act.
Ground 8: Erred in upholding the order of the AO that the amount payable by
the Appellant to GIL is towards right to use of trademark and copyrighted
computer program and process, hence is in the nature of 'Royalty' as per the
Article 12 of the India Ireland DTAA.
Ground 9: Erred in holding that the training provided in relation to the
advertisement program, its functionality, tools available etc. to the
distribution team of the appellant who markets and distributes the same to
advertisers in India tantamount to rendering of services to the Appellant even
after concluding that such training is restricted to use of the Adwords
program and not how to develop the Adwords program.
Ground 10: Erred in not following the principle laid down by Hon'ble Mumbai
Tribunal in the case of Yahoo India and Pinstorm Technology on similar facts
by stating that the facts and issues are completely different and at no stage
the Mumbai Tribunal consider what exactly is the Adwords Program, nor did it
have occasion to examine the right to use trademark or other IP rights.
Page - 4 IT(TP)A.1511 to 1516/Bang/2013 Ground 11: Erred in not following the
decision of the Calcutta Tribunal in the case of Income Tax Officer vs Right
Florists Pvt Ltd (ITA No. 1336/KolI2011) on similar facts.
03\. In addition to above common grounds of appeal, the assessee raised the
following common ground in ITA Nos.1511 & 1512/Bang/2013 for assessment year
2007-08 and 2008-09:
Brief facts
04\. The assessee Google India Private Limited (Google India) company
registered under the provisions of the Companies Act and wholly subsidiary of
Google International LLC, US. Google India is appointed as a non-exclusive
authorized distributor of Adword programs to the advertisers in India by
Google Ireland. Google is specialized in Internet search engines and related
advertising services. Google maintains an index of websites and other online
content which is made available through its search engine to anyone with an
Internet connection.
05\. Under the Google Adword Program Distribution agreement dated 12/12/2005,
Google India was granted the marketing and distribution rights of Adword
program to the advertisers in India.
Page - 5 IT(TP)A.1511 to 1516/Bang/2013
06\. As per assessee it is engaged in information technology (IT) and IT
enabled service (ITES) to its overseas group companies and is also engaged as
an non exclusive distributor of the online advertising space under Google
Adword Program to various advertisers in India. It is the case of the assessee
that the Google India entered into an agreement with Google Ireland Limited (
herein after called GIL) for resale of online advertising space under the
advertisers program to advertisers in India. For the purpose of sales and
marketing the space work wise flow of activities of the assessee and
advertiser were as under :
> i. Enter into resale agreement with GIL (Google Ireland Limited) and resale
> on advertising space under the Adword program under the Indian advertisers.
> ii. Perform marketing related activities in order to promote the sales of
> advertising space to Indian Advertisers. After training to its own sale
> flows above the features / tools available as part of Adword program to
> enable them to effectively market the same to advertisers. iii. Enter into a
> contract with Indian advertisers in relation to sale of space under the
> Adword program. iv. Provide assistance / training to Indian advertisers if
> needed in order to familiarize that with the features / tools available as
> part of our Adword product.
                   v.    Resale invoice to the above advertisers.
                  vi.    Collect payments from the aforesaid advertisers.
                                                                         Page - 6
    IT(TP)A.1511 to 1516/Bang/2013
> vii. Remit payment to Google Ireland Ltd payment (GIL) for purchase of
> advertising space from it under the resale agreement.
It was the case of the assessee that no rights in the intellectual property of
the Google were transferred to the assessee from GIL. Assessee was mere
reseller of advertising space made available under the Adword distribution
program by GIL. Further as per appellant, the assessee is a distributor of
advertising space and it do not have any access or control over the
infrastructure or the process that are involved in running the Adword program,
as program runs on software, Algorithm, data center which are owned by Google
and its subsidies outside India. It was also the case of the assessee that the
Adword platform is running on servers located outside India that belonged to
or hired by Google. Assessee in India has no control over the server of
Google.
07\. Moreover, it was submitted that the Google does not sell any software but
resells products and services which are developed by Google incorporation USA
and its subsidiaries outside India. It was the case of the assessee that
neither the assessee nor its advertisers get any right or right to use or
exploitation over the underlying I.P. or software which is entirely owned by
Google incorporation and its subsidies.
Page - 7 IT(TP)A.1511 to 1516/Bang/2013
08\. It was submitted by the assessee that the advertisers gets its
advertisement uploaded into Adword program, and thereafter it directly logged
on the Adword program website owned by Google and follows the various steps to
create the Adword account for itself. It is also the assessee's case that the
advertisers select the key words, content and presentation related to its ads
and places a bid on the online system for the price it is willing to pay
overtime its user clicks on its advertisement. One of the steps is the
selection of the payment in INR and once the terms and conditions displayed
are accepted an assigning contract is entered between the advertiser and
Google India (assessee) for sale of ad space. It was further submitted that
once the advertisers creates the accounts and upload and advertisement the
same automatically gets stored on Adword platform owned by Google on the
servers outside the India and the ads are displayed in the manner determined
by the programs running on automated platform. The assessee periodically
raises the bill on advertisers for advertising spend incurred by the
advertiser on clicks through the users.
09\. In a nutshell, it was the contention of the assessee that it is merely a
reseller of advertisement space. The assessee only performs market related
activities to promote the sales of advertisement space. No right or
intellectual properties were transferred by Google to the assessee or to the
advertiser. The assessee has no control or access to the software, Algorithm
and data centre. The server on which the Adword program runs are located
outside India over which it is not Page - 8 IT(TP)A.1511 to 1516/Bang/2013
having control. The assessee or the advertisers do not have any right of any
use or exploitation or the underlying I.P. and software. The advertisers
select key works and place a bid on the online auction. The assessee
periodically raises invoice on advertisers for advertising spend incurred by
the advertisers.
10\. On verification of the financial for the FY 2007-08 relevant to AY
2008-09, it was noticed that assessee had credited a sum of Rs.119 crores to
the account of Google Ireland without deduction of tax at source. Further, GIL
(Google Ireland) had also not obtained a NIL deduction certificate on the sums
payable to it from the Department. Similar are the facts for the other
assessment years and therefore, we are not reproducing here the same for the
sake of brevity.
10.1 As the appellant had not complied with the provisions of section 195,
therefore the proceedings were initiated u/s.201 by issuing the notice on
20.11.2011, calling upon the appellant why it should not be treated as
assessee in default for not deducting the tax at source on the sum payable to
GIL.
10.2 The appellant had filed the detailed reply and submitted the detail of
the distribution fees payable to Google Ireland on which the TDS was not
deducted by it :
Page - 9 IT(TP)A.1511 to 1516/Bang/2013 Financial year Distribution fee
payable (In Rs.) 2005-06 Nil 2006-07 42,57,53,347 2007-08 1,19,82,61,982
2008-09 1,66,58,00,134 2009-10 1,85,68,92,343 2010-11 3,72,01,00,048 2011-12
5,70,74,19,173 10.3 Before the AO, the assessee filed the detailed reply for
all the five years. However the AO was not convinced with the reasoning and
accordingly the tax liability of the appellant u/s.201 (1) and 201(1A) for the
AY 2007-08 to 2012-13 were determined by considering the amounts payable to
GIL as royalty under the Act and under the DTAA.
10.4 Feeling aggrieved by the order passed by The AO, appeals were preferred
before the CIT (A). However the CIT (A) vide impugned order had decided the
issues against the appellant by treating the amounts payable to GIL as royalty
under the Act and under the DTAA. Hence the present appeals were filed by the
assessee before us on various grounds mentioned herein above.
10.5 It may be appropriate to mention here that the assessee, had raised the
common ground no.1 to 11 in all the six appeals and the ground no.12 was only
restricted to two assessment years for 2007-08 Page - 10 IT(TP)A.1511 to
1516/Bang/2013 and 2008-09. During the course of argument it was pointed out
that the assessee had not raised the ground no.11 raised before CIT (A)
pertaining to royalty income, if any, is taxable on receipt basis. Therefore,
the assessee, in all the appeals had filed the additional ground bearing
no.13, before us. We have heard the argument on admissibility of additional
ground at this stage from both the sides. In our view the assessee had raised
this ground before the CIT (A) as ground no.11 which is clear from the record
and the CIT (A) had also recorded the finding on this issue. Moreover this
issue is legal in nature and therefore no prejudice would be caused to the
Revenue if this ground is permitted to be raised before us. Accordingly we
allow admission of additional ground no.13 to be raised in the present
appeals. We will be reproducing and dealing the said ground 13 herein below on
its own turn.
11\. The AO after issuing the show cause notice to assessee had passed the
speaking order. In respect to grounds 1-11 above the finding of the AO were as
under :
> A. The AO held that the amount payable by the Appellant to Google Ireland
> for the subject assessment years is royalty as the said term is defined in
> Explanation 2 to section 9(l)(vi) of the Act. The AO has relied on the
> following observations to conclude as above:
B. The 'distribution rights' are 'Intellectual Property rights' covered by
'similar property' and the Page - 11 IT(TP)A.1511 to 1516/Bang/2013
distribution fee payable is in relation to transfer of distribution rights.
C. Google Ireland has granted the Appellant the right access to confidential
information and intellectual property rights.
D. Google India has been allowed the use or the right to use of a variety of
specified IP rights and other IP rights covered by "similar property".
E. Grant of distribution right also involves transfer of right in copyright F.
By exercising its right as the owner of copyright in the software, Google
Ireland is authorizing Google India to sell or offer for sale, i.e., marketing
and distribution of Adwords Software to various advertisers in India.
G. The consideration paid by Google India is for granting
license/authorization to use the copyright in the Ad Words program and not for
purchase of such software.
H. GIPL has been given right to use Google Trademarks and other Brand Features
in order to market and distribute of Adwords program.
I. Grant of distribution right also involves transfer of know-how J. Google
Ireland is obliged to train the distributor so Page - 12 IT(TP)A.1511 to
1516/Bang/2013 that Appellant can market and distribute Ad Words program.
K. Referring to clause 2 of Non-disclosure Agreement ('NDA') forming part of
Distribution Agreement, Google Ireland being the copyright holder of the Ad
Words program, is in a position to share confidential information whenever
required with Appellant.
L. Grant of distribution right also involves transfer of process M. Without
access to the back-end, Google India cannot perform its marketing and
distribution activities. Google India has access to the processes running on
the data centers, based on the distribution rights granted to it by Google
Ireland N. Appellant is granted the use or the right to use the process in the
Adwords platform for the purpose of marketing and distribution. (Page 49 of
the order u/s
201) O. Grant of distribution right also involves use of Industrial,
commercial and scientific equipment P. Adwords program, in one way, is also
commercial cum scientific equipment and without having access to servers
running the Ad Words platform, Google India cannot perform its functions as
per the Distribution Agreement.
Page - 13 IT(TP)A.1511 to 1516/Bang/2013
12\. The appellant had challenged the order passed by the AO however the
CIT(A) had decided the issues against the assessee and confirmed the
withholding tax liability in the hands of the Appellant on the basis that the
amount payable by the Appellant to Google Ireland is in the nature royalty
under the provisions of the Act as well as under the India-Ireland DTAA.
13\. Feeling aggrieved by the order of CIT(A) the assessee challenged the
order of lower authorities on the above said grounds.
14\. The LD AR for the assessee had made elaborate arguments before us which
continued for four days and also filed detailed written submissions running
into more than 110 pages. The submissions of the Ld. AR relevant for grounds
no 1-11 are reproduced herein for the purposes of record :
2.3.1 Provision of Information Technology enabled services ('ITES services) by
the Appellant is independent of the distribution of advertisement space under
the Adwords Program by the Appellant to the advertisers in India
(i) At the outset, it is respectfully submitted that the ITES division of the
Appellant is a separate outsourcing business segment, for which it earns
revenue under a separate outsourcing service agreement with Google Ireland.
(ii) Appellant was providing ITES services even prior to commencement of the
distribution activity.
(iii) No amount is paid / payable by the Appellant to Google Ireland under
ITES Agreement. Please refer Page 22 to 35 of the Paper book for the copy of
the ITES agreement between the Appellant and Google Ireland in relation to the
ITES outsourcing function being performed by the Appellant.
(iv) The provision of ITES services by the Appellant is independent of the
distribution of advertising space to the advertisers in India, considering the
following:
> (a) The ITES function was undertaken by the Appellant even prior to the
> appointment as a non-exclusive distributor of advertisement space. The ITES
> function operates independently and is unrelated to the Adwords distribution
> business. That is, even where Google Ireland terminates its reseller
> contract with the Appellant, the ITES outsourcing business would continue
> and vice versa.
Page - 14 IT(TP)A.1511 to 1516/Bang/2013
(b) The role of distribution function is limited to distribution activities
inter alia, whereas, the ITES services performed are to ensure the
advertisements placed by advertisers globally confirm with Google editorial
guidelines/local Government regulations of the country (from where the Ad
originated).
For example, where an is Ad originated from South Africa, the ITES team in the
Appellant may review as a part of its outsourcing services, whether the South
African Ad conformed with the local government regulations of South Africa.
Likewise an advertisement placed by an Indian advertiser who has entered into
a contract with the Appellant may be reviewed by any other center rendering
said services.
Similarly the Appellant may record an advertisement placed by a customer
situated in the Europe.
There is no professional interaction between the distribution team and ITES
team since these are separate functions performed independent of each other.
(c) The process of review of advertisements is largely automated and run
outside India, and the Appellant is involved in reviewing only those Ads which
cannot be completely reviewed by the automated system.
(d) The function of providing ad policy administration services can be
outsourced to another third party company or another company outside of India.
That is, this outsourcing function does not need to be located in India. It is
mere coincidence that the Appellant has undertaken to perform ITES outsourcing
services as a part of its business.
Thus, based on the above, we wish to submit that the roles of ITES and the
distribution team are different in nature and are not inter related or inter-
dependent.
Use of Intellectual Property through ITES agreement The AO has assumed that
the right to use the intellectual property granted under ITES agreement was
used by the Appellant for the purposes of distribution of ad space. Basis this
presumption, the AO has adjudged that the payments made by the Appellant were
towards the use of intellectual property and thus taxable under section
9(1)(vi)of the Act.
It is submitted that firstly, even under the ITES agreement, only limited
rights to the use of the intellectual property of Google Ireland is granted to
the Appellant only to carry out the work under the said agreement. Further,
the ITES agreement, Page - 15 IT(TP)A.1511 to 1516/Bang/2013 providing such
limited rights to the use of the intellectual property of Google Ireland, is
entered on 1 April 2004, which is much before the agreement for Adwords
program i.e. 12 December 2005.
Confidentiality clause under the reseller agreement As submitted earlier, ITES
Agreement which lays down terms and conditions for 'Confidential Information'
shared by Google Ireland to Google India for the purposes of providing ITES
services.
The purpose of insertion of the said clause is independent of payments made by
the Appellant under the reseller agreement. The Confidentiality clause under
the ITES agreement is a generic clause included for the purposes of protecting
information exchanged by Google Ireland and to further sue the persons who
breach sensitive and confidential information that they may acquire as a
consequence of rendering services to Google Ireland.
The AO and CIT(A) seem to have overlooked a basic fact evident from Clause 6.1
of the ITES Agreement which was reproduced by the CIT(A) in Para 11.6 (Page
39) of his order.
The said clause permits the Appellant to use the confidential information
which is largely customer data (not in the nature of intellectual property)
solely for the purpose of performing its obligations under the ITES Agreement
and does not give the Appellant the right to use the same under the
Distribution Agreement. Further, the Appellant wishes to reiterate that the Ad
Words division and the ITES division operate separately and there is no
overlap of any activities and responsibilities between the two divisions. The
approach of the AO and the CIT(A) to read one agreement into the other for the
purposes of concluding the taxability as royalty is baseless Such an approach
adopted by the AO and CIT(A) would only lead to circuitous arguments leading
to no definite conclusion.
2.3.2 Amount Payable by the Appellant to Google Ireland for purchase of
advertisement space under the Distribution Agreement is not in the nature of
'Royalty' In terms of Explanation 2 to section 9(1)(vi), the term 'royalty'
means consideration for transfer of all or any rights (including the granting
of a license) in respect of use of a patent, invention, model, design, secret
formula, process, trademark, similar intellectual property or in relation to
imparting of any information concerning technical, industrial, commercial or
scientific knowledge, experience or skill.
In the instant case, as per the 'Google Ad Words Program Distribution
Agreement' between the Appellant and Google Ireland:
• the Appellant is appointed as a mere non-exclusive distributor of Page - 16
IT(TP)A.1511 to 1516/Bang/2013 advertisement space to the advertisers in
India; • the amount payable to Google Ireland is for purchase of advertisement
space under the Ad Words program and is not in relation to any 'transfer of
any right' or any 'right to use' any copyright, patent, invention etc.; • the
Agreement does not involve any use of patents, invention, model, design,
secret formula or process or trademark or similar property by the Appellant
Further, all the rights title, and interest in and to all information and
data, including user data (i.e., data provided by users) are owned by Google
Ireland; • the amount payable under the Agreement is not in relation to any
knowledge concerning a patent or invention, and is not concerned with the use
or the right to use any scientific equipment; further, Google Ireland does
not, in any manner, provide to the Appellant any use of or right to use any
copyright in the intellectual property owned by Google Ireland.
Given the above, it is submitted that the amount payable by the Appellant to
Google Ireland, being an advertisement fee, is not in the nature of 'royalty'
under the Act. The Appellant provides its detailed submissions on specific
contentions of the AO under each of the clauses of Explanation 2 to section
9(l)(vi) of the Act in the ensuing paragraphs:
At the outset, it is submitted that the price that the Appellant pays Google
Ireland is the consideration for the advertisement space sold. If the revenue
alleges it is not so, it must demonstrate with evidence that such is the
position. It has to clearly establish that the payment is for one of the
specific intellectual property rights that are covered by the various clauses
of Explanation 2. It cannot allege that the Appellant has a right to use
various intellectual property rights without tracing such right to a specific
clause to the agreement.
(i) Grant of IP rights Similar Property u/s 9(1) (vi) Having upheld that
Google Ireland agreed to provide ad space to the Appellant for distribution to
the Indian Advertisers, the CIT(A) erred in concluding that (oog1e Ireland has
granted the rights covered by 'similar property' under in section 9(1)(vi) of
the Act. In this regard, we wish to submit the following:
> • The Appellant is unable to comprehend how non-exclusive right to
> distribute the advertisement space under the Ad Words program would be
> regarded as falling within the scope of 'similar property' referred to in
> section 9(l)(vi) of the Act.
> • Applying the principle of ejusdem generis and 'Noscitur a sociis', to
> interpret the meaning of the term "similar property" mentioned in
> Explanation 2(i) to section 9(1)(vi) of the Act, it shall be understood in
> the context of patent, invention, model, design, secret formula or process
> or trade mark which are all form of intellectual property.
> • From the definitions of intellectual property, it may be inferred that the
> term "Intellectual Property' refers to property which is the essentially the
> product of human intellect.
Page - 17 IT(TP)A.1511 to 1516/Bang/2013 The present non-exclusive right to
distribute the advertisement space is a commercial right and not an
intellectual property rights.
In any event it is submitted that no payment is made by the Appellant to
Google Ireland for grant of such right. Further the definition of the tax
royalty in Article 12(5) of the India Ireland DTAA is narrower in scope than
the definition in Explanation 2 as inter alia the words "similar property" has
not to be found.
(ii) Grant of distribution rights in Adwords Program involves transfer of
right in copyright The AO observed that Google Ireland has granted the
Appellant the right to use of the Ad Words program, which is a computer
software without parting with the copyright, thus granting a license to use
the software. The AO and the CIT(A) have factually erred in stating that the
Appellant gets the right to use the Ad Words program. Drawing reference to the
description of the Ad Words Program and the role played by the Appellant
during the sale of the ad space, it is submitted that the Appellant neither
receives any right nor access to the Ad Words program under the Distribution
Agreement and does not use it in any manner whatsoever. The amount payable y
the Appellant is merely towards purchase of the ad space for resale without
access to any underlying computer program.
In arriving at his conclusion the AO primarily relied on the judgment of the
Honorable High Court in Samsung and as indicated earlier the Appellant's
representative was categorically told not to deal with this judgment in his
rejoinder and, hence, the same is not being dealt with.
In the instant case, the Appellant is a mere non-exclusive distributor of
adspace through the Ad Words program in India. The Appellant merely purchases
advertisement space under the Adwords Program from Google Ireland and
distributes the same to advertisers in India. Hence, the consideration
received by the Appellant from the advertisers in India is in the nature of
advertisement fees and the consideration paid by the Appellant to Google
Ireland is for purchase of ad space which is also in the nature of
advertisement fees.
• For advertisements in other mediums like newspapers, magazines, the
customers approach advertising agency to have their advertisement published in
one or more newspapers. The advertising agency in turn, approaches the
respective newspaper entity or an entity that has bought media space for the
publishing of the advertisement of their customers. The consideration paid by
the customer to the advertising agency is in the nature of advertisement fees
and the consideration paid by the advertising agency to the respective
newspaper entity is also in the nature of advertisement fees.
Page - 18 IT(TP)A.1511 to 1516/Bang/2013 Similarly, in the instant case, the
consideration received by the Appellant from the advertisers in India is in
the nature of advertisement fees and the consideration paid by the Appellant
to Google Ireland for purchase of advertisement space through Adwords program
is also in the nature of advertisement fees.
(iii) Grant of right to use Trademarks and Brand features The AO sought to
characterise the amount payable to Google Ireland as royalty, considering that
the Appellant uses the brand name 'Google', which would amount to use of
trademark under the provisions of the Act. Google Trademarks and other brand
features being referred to in the Distribution Agreement are mere incidental
to enable the Appellant to distribute the ad space in India. There has been no
specific transfer of any patent/ trademark to the Appellant in this regard.
Any reseller or distributor to perform its obligations as a reseller needs to
use the brand of the product being sold. For example, if Raymond appoints a
person as its authorised distributor, such person may identify himself as an
authorised reseller of Raymond products through signage board. This does not
mean that payments by the reseller to Raymond for purchase of products is
royalty. It is submitted that mere use of name of brand for procuring ad
contracts would not amount to use of trademark and, hence, even assuming that
a view is taken that a part of the price paid by the Appellant to Google
Ireland can be characterized as a payment for the alleged use (which is
denied) such income would not be liable to tax as royalty under the provisions
of the Act. Reliance is placed on the judgements referred to in para 3.3.5 in
Section II (in relation to submissions for AY 2008-09 i.e. ITA No 374 of 2013)
wherein it has been held that incidental use of trademark should not over
shadow the main purpose of entering into the agreement which was marketing and
publicity.
(iv) Grant of distribution rights involves transfer of rights in process The
AO, drawing reference to the activities undertaken by the ITES division,
observed (in Para 1.2, page 47 of the Order) that the Appellant has to perform
functions which involve approving and administering advertisements to conform
to the Google editorial guidelines and responding to customer queries. The AO
also observed that the front-end portion is what the Advertiser or the end-
user sees while the back-end portion is accessible only by Google Ireland and
Google India. The AO further observed that without access to the back-end, the
Appellant cannot perform its activities of marketing and distribution.
In this regard, it is important to highlight that the Appellant does not have
access to any back-end portion as referred by the AO as databases, software
tools, etc under the Distribution Agreement. Therefore, the conclusion of the
that the Appellant has been granted the use of or the right to use the process
in the Ad Words platform, especially for the purpose of marketing and
distribution is factually incorrect and is based on surmise and conjecture.
Without prejudice to the above, the Appellant humbly submits that the Adwords,
though a program, cannot be considered as a "process" within the meaning under
Explanation 2(i) to section 9(1)(vi) of the Act on account of the following:
Page - 19 IT(TP)A.1511 to 1516/Bang/2013 • Explanation 2(i) refers to transfer
of rights in intellectual property. The term "process" used therein is to be
understood in the context of intellectual property based on principle of
`noscitur a sociis'. Hence, the term "process" referred in Explanation 2(i)
needs to be a secret process or one that can be classified under intellectual
property.
• However, the Adwords program cannot be equated to a secret process since
information relating to the program is freely available to the public on
Google's website along with explanatory videos regarding the same.
Hence, Google Ad Words program cannot be considered a secret process and
hence, it does not constitute "process" within the meaning of the term as
defined in Clause
(i).
(v) Grant of distribution rights also involves transfer of know-how The AO
observed that Google Ireland is obliged to train Google India for marketing
and distribution of Ad Words Program. Further, the AO also draws unwarranted
reference to the ITES division in this regard. The AO has again disregarded
the fact that review of advertisements as per the local law requirements and
Google Editorial policies is undertaken by the ITES division and not by the Ad
Words division.
Further, the AO observed that the training is given to Google India for the
purpose of imparting of information concerning technical, commercial or
scientific knowledge, experience or skill as specified in clause (iv) of
Explanation 2 to Section 9(l)(vi) of the Act.
In this regard, it is pertinent to note that the term information' has not
been defined under the Act. Used independently, the word 'information' may
convey a very broad meaning. The term 'information' as used in clause (iv)
would draw its meaning in the light of the meaning of the term as used in the
main body of the section. The term 'information' for section 9(1)(vi) would
allude to the concept of know-how. The various types of knowledge, experience
or skill referred to in the definition would refer to know-how being made
available in light of the original essence of the term royalty.
Circular No. 202 dated 05 July 1976 issued by the CBDT which explains the
ambit of section 9(1)(vi) of the Act, has clearly brought out that the payment
for information should be in respect of any data, documentation, drawing or
specifications relating to any patent, invention, model, design, secret
formula or process or trademark.
In the instant case:
• There has been no provision of specific information concerning technical,
industrial, commercial or scientific knowledge, experience or skill. • The
information being referred by the AO under the NDA is a standard Page - 20
IT(TP)A.1511 to 1516/Bang/2013 non-disclosure clause. There is no specific
information actually received by the Appellant from Google Ireland. The said
clause is intended to protect confidentiality of the information, if any,
which either party gathers during the course of the business. Further, the
training material/ information are also publicly available online. Hence, the
same cannot be considered imparting of information concerning working of or
use of patent.
• The access to information in relation to the Adwords accounts, billing, etc
is also available to the advertisers. Hence, the same is not in the nature of
'royalty'.
Further, the CIT(A) has upheld that there has been no imparting of know- how
to the Appellant and the revenue has not challenged the finding of the CIT(A)
by filing an independent appeal.
(vi) Grant of distribution rights also involves use of Industrial, commercial
and scientific equipment As per clause (iva) of Explanation 2 to section
9(1)(vi) of the Act, consideration for the to "use" or "right to use" any
industrial, commercial or scientific equipment is classified as "royalties."
The sin qua non to tax a payment as royalty is that the sai7 is for the "use
of" or "the right to use" an intellectual property right. Where such use or
right to use has not been granted, the payment cannot be characterized as
"royalty.
The term "use" or "right to use" has not been defined under the Act. As per
Oxford Advanced Learner's Dictionary and treatise authored by D P Mittal
titled "Indian Double Taxation Agreements & Tax Laws", to constitute "use" or
"right to use" the payer should have (a) complete control of the IP and (b)
exclusive use which excludes multiple users.
In the instant case, the amount payable by the Appellant to Google Ireland is
not for the use or for right to use any scientific equipment. Hence, based on
the following facts, the same is not in the nature of 'royalty' even under
Explanation 2(iva) to section 9(l)(vi) of the Act.
\- No part of the server is devoted and earmarked for the Appellant;
\- "Use" or "right to use" equipment connotes that the Appellant has the
possession and control over the equipment and the equipment is virtually at
its disposal. The Appellant does not exercise any possessory rights in
relation to the server.
\- The Appellant is not concerned with the infrastructure/ server installed by
Google Ireland or the components embedded in it. The operation, control and
maintenance of the server, solely rests with Google Ireland.
\- The Appellant does not have any right to modify or deal with the server
which only vests with Google Ireland.
Page - 21 IT(TP)A.1511 to 1516/Bang/2013 Further, the CIT(A) has confirmed
that the Appellant has not gained any right to use any scientific equipment as
captured in clause (iv) and as submitted earlier the revenue has not filed any
appeal in this regard.
2.3.3 Amount payable to Google Ireland is in the nature of business profits
The Appellant places reliance on its submissions in Para 3.3.4 of Section II
of this submission (i.e. Submission for AY 2008-09 in ITA No 374 of 2013) in
support of its contention that the amount payable to Google Ireland is in
fact, in the nature of business profits and not royalty.
15\. Before us, the assessee has further submitted that the Adword programs
enable the advertiser to change and monitor the performance of sponsored
linked to set a landing page for advertising and only pay when people clicks
the ad. The advertiser can provide the text of the advertisement and by
providing such term or phrase or key word which is relevant for the advertiser
prospective so that when the said term or phrase is searched by any user on
the Google search engine, advertisement (Ad) may get displayed on the search
results in addition to the organic search result alongwith the sponsored
linked ad. The key words selected / purchased / sought to be purchased by the
advertiser through the Adword program would pop up with the help of Algorithm.
It was submitted that the quality and relevance of key words and various
parameters of landing pages plays significant role for determining the price
of the advertisement. It was contended before us that success of the ads not
only depend upon the bidding but also depend upon the relevant key words
selected for the advertisement.
Page - 22 IT(TP)A.1511 to 1516/Bang/2013
16\. On the other hand, the learned standing counsel for revenue had submitted
that the Google is specialized in internet search engines and related
advertising services. Google maintained index of website and other online
content which is made available through its search engine to anyone with an
internet connection. It was submitted that the amount credited by Google India
to the account of GIL would constitute a sum chargeable under the provisions
of the Act as the payment is in the nature of royalty for the purposes of
license to use to the intellectual property rights (IPR). It was submitted
that amount credited by Google India to the account of Google Ireland would
constitute sum chargeable under the provisions of the Act as the payment is in
the nature of royalty for the purpose of license to use Intellectual Property
Rights (IPR).
17\. Show cause notice under section 201 of the Act was issued as Google India
failed to comply with provisions of Section 195 of the Act. In para-3, page 5
of the order, the AO has recorded that the distribution Adword program
involves three parties viz, the licensor, the reseller and the advertiser. The
licensor is Google Ireland, the distributor is Google India and the end-user
is the advertiser. The Assessing Officer by considering the judgment of the
Madras High Court in the case of Consim Inidia Pvt Ltd Vs Google India Pvt Ltd
dated 30/9/2010 explained the concept of search engine and explained how
search engine operate. The AO considering the provisions of section 9(1)(vi)
r.w Explanation-2 of the Act read with DTAA concluded that the payment by
Google India to Google Ireland is in Page - 23 IT(TP)A.1511 to 1516/Bang/2013
the nature of royalty. A reference is invited to Google Adword program
distribution agreement considered by the AO at page 15 of the order.
18\. As per clause 2.6 of the Adword program distribution agreement, the
distributor (Google India) will provide after sales services to advertisers in
accordance with the broad instructions, training standards of Google. Clause
3.1 of the Adword agreement provides for Google Ireland to utilise the space
through the Adword's program for distribution by Google India to advertisers
as set forth. Clause 3.4 provides for minimum level of service as specified in
Exhibit -C. Clause 7 of the Adword agreement provides for agreement to mutual
nondisclosure agreement which is Exhibit - B to the Adword agreement. Exhibit
C to Adword agreement, referred to as service level agreement provides for
Google India shall be solely responsible for providing all customer services
to advertisers, according to procedures, and in compliance with standards,
provided by Google. All advertisers shall be instructed by distributor to
contact distributor directly for support, and not to communicate directly with
Google. our attention was invited to mutual nondisclosure agreement which is
made part of the Adword agreement by virtue of Clause 7. It was submitted in
view of the specific obligation to provide after sales support by the Google
India to the advertisers and also in view of the service level agreement, the
Google India would be providing services as per the services agreement dated
1/4/2004. By reading of the Page - 24 IT(TP)A.1511 to 1516/Bang/2013 service
agreement dated 1/4/2004 it is clear that Google India has been provided with
confidential information as referred to in clause 1.2 of the service agreement
and obligation at clause 3.3 to render such services solely for Google Ireland
or its affiliates. Clause 5 of the service agreement deals with ownership,
clause 5.5 provides for no unauthorised use and clause 5.6 provides for no
reproduction. Clause 6 of the service agreement provides for confidential
information, access and use of confidential information, agreement not to
disclose confidential information, ownership and return of confidential
information and injunctive relief. Clause 12.5 of the service agreement
provides for rights and duties on termination. From the reading of all the
clauses of various agreements in conjunction with the Google Adword program
distribution agreement, it is clear beyond doubt that the Google India has
been provided license to use IPR for which Google India has agreed to make
certain payments to Google Ireland and the same is in the nature of royalty as
per the provisions of section 9(1)(vi) of the Act read with DTAA.. The Google
Ireland is allowing Google India access to all intellectual property and
confidential information and is used by the Google India for activities
related to distribution agreement. The obligations under the distribution
agreement and the service agreement would make it clear that both the
documents cannot be separated from each other. For the purpose of marketing
and distribution activities Google India is granted the right to use the
valuable business asset of Google Ireland which includes Page - 25
IT(TP)A.1511 to 1516/Bang/2013 intellectual property in the products and
services offered by Google Ireland.
19\. DR submitted that Intellectual Property Rights of Google resides in
search engine technology, associated software and other features, hence right
to use IPR for performing various activities like accepting advertisements and
providing after sale services would clearly fall within the ambit of
"Royalty".
20\. As per the terms of the distribution agreement, Google India has been
authorized to sell or offer for sale the Adword program to the advertisers
which is nothing but granting of licence to Google India to sell or offer for
sale to advertisers. By acquiring the distribution and marketing rights,
Google India has been granted licence in respect of Adword's program, licensed
to sell or offer for sale certain rights to the advertisers and such rights or
the rights to use the Adword program. Therefore the license to use the Adword
program by the copyright holder is licensed to market and sell the Adword
program. The license to use the Adword program (search engine) which is
copyrighted by Google would amount to right to use the copyright.
21\. It was also canvassed before us that GIL is allowing the access to
assessee all IPRs and confidential information which is soul of distribution
activities of the assessee. It was submitted that in the absence of the access
to the Google tools, IPRs, software, patented technology and confidential
information, it is not possible for the Page - 26 IT(TP)A.1511 to
1516/Bang/2013 appellant to render the services to the advertisers. It was
submitted that the appellant was given right to use the valuable assets of the
Google Ireland which include the product and services offered by Google. It
was submitted that Google research engine is a patented technology and the
Adword programs, works of Algorithm which itself is patented and the
engineering technology associated with that, all falls within the four corners
of the Royalty.
22\. It was further contended by the learned Advocate that the contention of
the assessee that the Adword program is merely a program to sell the
advertisement space is contrary to the facts and circumstances and attending
features of the Adword program. Our attention was drawn to an agreements
entered with the advertiser as well as with the other features of the Adword
program. It was submitted that the assessee by acquiring the distribution and
marketing rights from Google Ireland in respect of Adword program to the
advertisers, is licensed to use the search engine which is copy righted and
therefore falls within the definition royalty.
23\. It was further submitted that the license to sell, presupposes license
being granted to the distributor (Google India). The license to sell enables
the Google India to transact the license/right to use the Adword program. The
consideration paid is for the license to enable Google India to resell the
license/right to use to the advertisers. As held by the jurisdictional High
Court in the above referred cases but for the license, the sale of
advertisement space to the advertiser by the Page - 27 IT(TP)A.1511 to
1516/Bang/2013 Google India in the search engine of Google which is an IP
would amount to infringement.
24\. Under the distribution agreement the assessee has been granted right to
use trademarks and brand features. The grant of right to use trademarks and
brand features is for the purpose of selling the advertisement space and the
license to use the IP being tool of the trade for the Google India, right to
use Google trademarks and other brand features without any ambiguity would
amount to license to use IP and the consideration constitutes Royalty
chargeable under section 195 of the Act.
25\. Under the distribution agreement the assessee has been granted
distribution rights involving transfer of rights in process. The entire search
engine technology on which license has been granted to Google India for
selling advertisement space to the advertisers is a "process". The search
engine technology is an IP. Hence the license to use the "process" being IP
and consequential payment is "royalty".
26\. The distribution agreement was also entered for transfer of know-how in
view of clause 3.1 of the distribution agreement wherein the Google India has
been provided access to internal tool for the purpose of performing the
obligations under the Adword agreement. The statements recorded from the
persons concerned of the Google India reproduced at page 53 and 54 of the AO's
order would make it clear that marketing,distribution and maintenance of
Adword program Page - 28 IT(TP)A.1511 to 1516/Bang/2013 is the responsibility
of Google India involving knowledge of tools and training on its usage,
knowledge of trademark policy, add content policy. Such knowledge has been
imported through extensive training by Google Ireland to Google India which
would amount to transfer of know-how and liable for tax under section 9(1)(vi)
of the Act as royalty.
27\. It was further submitted that nondisclosure agreement which is Exhibit-B
of the distribution agreement would clearly demonstrate that by virtue of the
disclosure of the confidential information and access provided to the
confidential information to the Google India by Google Ireland, the sums
payable by Google India to Google Ireland is for information, know- how and
skill imparted to Google India. Further grant of distribution rights involves
use of industrial, commercial and scientific equipment. Adword platform is
similar to portal running on servers and Adword's platform is based on search
engine technology of Google. Hence Adword program is commercial and scientific
equipment and without having access to the servers running on the Adword
platform, Google India cannot perform its functions/ exploit its rights as per
the distribution agreement. Hence the distribution rights include the right to
use the industrial, commercial and scientific equipment which are the servers.
Our attention was drawn to the case of Cargo Community Network Ltd (159 Taxman
243) wherein it was held that portal and server together constitute integrated
commercial and scientific equipment and for Page - 29 IT(TP)A.1511 to
1516/Bang/2013 obtaining Internet access to airlines the use of portal without
server is unthinkable. Ultimately it has been concluded that payments made for
concurrent access to utilise the sophisticated services offered by the portal,
would be covered by the expression royalties. Hence in view of the ruling of
the AAR, the payment for license to use or for access to portal is royalty
under section 9(1)(vi) of the Act.
28\. Ld Standing counsel relied upon jurisdictional High Court judgment in the
case of Synopsis International Ltd (2013)212 Taxman 454 (Karnataka) Samsung
Electronics Ltd (245 CTR (R)
481), CGI Information Systems and Management Consultants (2014) 226 Taxman
319, Authority for Advance Ruling in Skills of Ireland Ltd, Vodafone South Ltd
(ITAT Bangalore bench) and ABB FZ-LCC (2017) 83 Taxman.com 86 (Bangalore
-ITAT), the amount paid towards license to use IPR is the nature of royalty
and chargeable under the Act under section 195 of the Act.
29\. On the basis of the above, it was summarized learned Advocate for the
Revenue that exploitation of search engine which is an IPR and the said IPR
being used by the Google India as tools of trade and therefore is royalty and
therefore liable for tax under the Act as well as DTAA.
30\. The learned Advocate sought to distinguish the judgment relied upon by
the assessee in the matter of Right Florist limited is not applicable to the
facts and circumstances of the present case. In the Page - 30 IT(TP)A.1511 to
1516/Bang/2013 case relied on by the assessee, the advertiser has only placed
advertisement in the search engine and no right in the IPR was conferred on
the advertiser. In such circumstances it has been held that payment by the
advertiser does not amount to royalty. Whereas in the present case the Google
India has been provided access to the IPR and Google India has used IPR as
tool of the trade for generation of income without which, it would have been
an infringement of the copyright owned/retained by the Google Ireland
(licensor). Similarly for High-Power Committee report dated 16/12/1999 and Tax
Treaty dated 1/2/2001, it was submitted that payment made by the advertiser
directly to the owner of the search engine would not amount to royalty.
Rebuttals against the arguments of DR
31\. Ld AR in rebuttal had submitted that the brand features are predominantly
commercial rights and are incidental/ consequential to the distribution
activity and does not involve transfer of any separate right. In light of the
decisions of the Hon'ble Delhi High Court in the case of Sheraton
International Inc(supra) and Formula One World Championship Ltd (supra), the
payment cannot be characterized as royalty.
32\. Further, ld AR submitted that neither Appellant nor the advertisers have
the access to the servers running the search engine. The distributor or
advertisers are not concerned with the back end Page - 31 IT(TP)A.1511 to
1516/Bang/2013 functioning of the Adwords program which is solely carried out
by Google Ireland. Further, ld AR submitted contention of the DR is that the
payment is being made for the use of the search engine, the use of such search
engine is by the end-user and not by the Indian Advertiser and therefore the
contention is also incorrect. The person who uses the search engine to view
ads provided by an Indian Advertiser may not necessarily be based in India.
Use of software embedded in Google search service by the end user is solely to
enable the end-user to use and enjoy benefit of the Services as provided by
Google, in the manner permitted by the Terms. Further, ld AR submitted that
advertiser is not interested in use of Search service. Objective of the
advertiser is to get his advertisement placed along with the organic search
results displayed basis the search results. Ad gets displayed once the search
by the end user is over and search results are displayed.
33\. Ld AR further submitted that the revenue failed to appreciate that the
functioning of the Appellant under the ITeS service agreement is separate from
that of the distribution function which ought to be treated distinctly.
34\. Ld AR submitted that Both the reports of High Powered Committee as well
as Technical Advisory Group have concluded that the payments in relation to
advertisement fees are not in the nature of 'royalty'. Accordingly, when the
payments made directly by advertisers to Google Ireland cannot be regarded as
royalty, Page - 32 IT(TP)A.1511 to 1516/Bang/2013 the payments made by the
distributor for the same ad space cannot be characterised as royalty.
35\. Ld AR submitted that the minimum levels of service specified in Exhibit C
cast obligations on GIL as a well as on the Appellant to render the services.
In terms of Clause 2.6 of the Reseller agreement, the Appellant is required to
provide after- sales support. In terms of Exhibit C, the advertisers are to
contact the Appellant for support and the terms in the Exhibit only specify
the minimum levels of service to be adhered to by the Appellant whilst
communicating with the customers. The terms in the Exhibit cannot be read de
hors the main agreement to conclude that Exhibit C is linked to the ITES
agreement and neither does a reading of the Exhibit suggest that, even
remotely. What is envisaged under the said Exhibit is only that the Appellant
responds to all routine queries of customers without GIL having to do the
same. Typically, sales and billing related questions are to be responded to
the by the Appellant. In case of advertiser issues or technical issues, GIL
would have to respond to the customer queries. Evidently, no right to use any
IPs is granted to the Appellant. Further ld AR submitted that the reliance on
clause 3 of the NDA by ld DR is also of no avail. Clauses containing
protection of confidential information are generic to most agreements and this
clause for protection per se cannot establish that there is a use of right to
use any IPs. The Confidentiality clause is included for the purposes of
protecting Page - 33 IT(TP)A.1511 to 1516/Bang/2013 information which may be
exchanged by either party to the agreement (not Google Ireland alone) in the
course of performing the obligations under the Reseller agreement. This cannot
per se lead to the conclusion that there is a positive action of transfer of
right to use/ imparting of confidential information by GIL to the Appellant.
In any event, read with clauses 7 and 8, the information disclosed under the
Reseller Agreement would if at all be user data which, at best is disclosed to
the Appellant, without there being any right to use the same for any
commercial exploitation, and which, is in any case, not in the nature of
intellectual property. Discussions and findings
36\. We have heard the rival contentions of the parties and perused the
record. We shall be collectively deciding all the grounds no 1-11 together as
all the grounds are interlinked and interdependent. Before we adjudicate the
all these issues, it is important to understand how the Google Adword program
functions and work. During the course of argument, we have directed the
parties to file detailed submissions on how the Google Adword program
functions, tools and space used by assessee as well as advertiser for posting
the advertisement on the Google search engine or displaying on the website.
37\. In response to our pointed queries and directions the assessee, had
filled the written submissions and in written submission in chapter 2, the
assessee addressed to what is Google program. We are Page - 34 IT(TP)A.1511 to
1516/Bang/2013 reproducing herein below all these submissions made by the Ld.
AR in this regard as under:
> II. ABOUT ADWORDS PROGRAM
> 1\. What is Google Adwords program?
> Google Adwords program is a 'self-serve' online advertising service provided
> by Google (reference hereinafter to Google would include Google Inc / Google
> Ireland as the context may require) for business wanting to display ads in
> relation to their websites on Google property or third party property
> (advertising space'). The Adwords program enables advertiser to create,
> change and monitor the performance of 'sponsored links' to set a budget for
> advertising and only pay when people click the ads.
> This, the advertiser can do by providing the "text" of the advertisement and
> by providing/registering a search term or phrase or a "keyword" which is
> relevant to the advertiser's website, so that when the said term or phrase
> is searched for by any user on the Google Search Engine, the Advertisement
> ("Ad") of the advertiser may also get displayed on the search results page
> in addition to the organic search results, though separately identified as
> 'Sponsored Links' or 'Ads'. A user thus gets an opportunity to make an
> informed decision as to which website he wants to explore.
Businesses that use Adwords can create relevant ads using keywords or phrases
matching with the terms or phrases ('search query') that people who search the
Web using the Google search engine. Multiple advertisers can provide/register
the same Keyword and Google does not "sell" these Keywords nor does it allow
only one advertiser to exclusively use a specific Keyword and restrict others.
These Keywords are merely textual characters or strings that are used to
algorithmically trigger advertisements through the "fresh flower delivery" as
one Page - 35 IT(TP)A.1511 to 1516/Bang/2013 keyword in the Adwords campaign.
When some user searches Google using the search query with phrase "fresh
flower delivery" or a similar term, the advertiser's advertisement might
appear next to Google organic search results.
The main components of Ad Rank are bids and ad relevance, the quality of the
advertisements, keywords, and website as measured by what is referred to as
the Quality Score. In this regard, the quality and relevance of the keywords,
various parameters of landing pages (such as loading speed, content relevance,
positioning of relevant information, website design, etc.), and the
advertisement are every bit as important to the advertisement 's rank as the
amount the advertiser is willing to spend. Therefore, even if an advertiser's
competitors have higher bids, an advertiser can still win a higher position at
a lower price by using highly relevant keywords and advertisements. Therefore,
the price bid is not the only determinant as to whether an advertisement
appears and where an advertisement appears - this enhances the user
experience.
2\. Who provides the advertisement space to advertisers in India under the
Adwords program Google Ireland Limited ('GIL') markets and distributes the
Google Group's products and services to customers in the Europe, Middle East
and Africa and Asia Pacific regions. Google India Private Limited (GIPL) is
appointed by Google Ireland Limited (GIL) as a non-exclusive authorised
reseller of advertising space under the Adwords Program to the advertisers in
India effective December 2005.
3\. What are the steps involved for an advertiser in India to set up Adwords
Account and Adwordise on Google?
Page - 36 IT(TP)A.1511 to 1516/Bang/2013 a. Step 1 (Email account & website)
In order to setup an Adwords account and begin advertising on Google, the
advertiser needs an e- mail address and a website to which the user can be
directed to from the Google search results page that displays the
advertisement . (Please refer Annexure Page 212 of Paper Book Volume.
This step is generic to any advertiser in the world who wishes to Adwordise
through the Adwords Program. The Adwords account is set-up on the servers
owned/ hired by Google outside India. Accordingly, Google India does not have
any role to play at this stage of the Adwords account set-up process. The
advertiser would be first required to create a website having details of their
products / services.
b. Step 2 (Setting up of Adwords Account basis Location, Time zone and
Currency) Advertiser will then be required to set up Adwords account
('https://Adwords.google.com). Once the email address is provided, the
advertiser is required to select his location and time zone along with the
currency that the advertiser wishes to use (Please refer Page 213 of Paper
book Volume.
This part of the account set-up process is common for Advertisers across
locations and not specific to India based customers. It is only after India is
selected as the billing address and Indian Rupee as a billing currency is
selected that Google India gets involved.
Page - 37 IT(TP)A.1511 to 1516/Bang/2013 c. Step 3 (Selection of Advertisement
Campaign Settings) Pursuant to updating the above mentioned preferences, the
Advertiser moves to the next step where details of the Advertising campaign
would need to be keyed in by the Advertiser.
The following information is sought from the Advertiser to create an
Advertisement campaign • Locations to be targeted in the advertisement
campaign • Language in which the advertisement should be published • Bidding
and budget: The Advertiser has an option to submit a bid amount for a specific
keyword that he wishes to use. The Advertiser also provides its budget
rate/cost per click to display the advertisement and offer to pay to Google
when the surfer/user click on the advertiser's website link. The advertiser
can also fix the maximum amount of his budget. The advertiser pays only when
the user clicks on the advertisement and visits the advertiser's website for
detailed information on products/services or for purchasing such
products/services.
• The Advertiser is also given an option to customize the target audience by
selecting certain specified Ad extensions which enable the Advertiser to post
additional information not forming part of the Advertisement content, such as
location information, phone number, etc. • Ad Group name: The Advertiser is
required to identify the advertisement campaign through an Ad Group name (to
be keyed in by the Advertiser Page - 38 IT(TP)A.1511 to 1516/Bang/2013
himself). This name would only be used to identify a specific advertisement
campaign • Form of Advertisement : The Advertiser is required to select
whether the advertisement should be in the form of text, image, etc. and
accordingly, provide the relevant headline, description and destination URL •
Keywords: Subsequently, the Advertiser is required to choose the keywords
basis which the respective Advertisements can be displayed on the Google
search results page As mentioned above, the above information is submitted by
the Advertiser directly and is stored on the servers outside India. Google
India does not play any role in the uploading of the advertisement on the
servers belonging to Google Ireland and does not have any access to these
servers.
d. Step 4 (Billing details) Under this section, the following payment methods
would need to be selected by the Advertiser:
                         •    Whether automatic or manual payments
                         •    Whether through credit card, net banking or
                         cheque
These options are also required to be selected by the Advertiser on the Google
website, as per his discretion and without any interference from Google India
Private Limited.
Page - 39 IT(TP)A.1511 to 1516/Bang/2013 e. Step 5: Acceptance of Advertising
Program Terms This step requires the Advertiser to accept the Advertising
Program Terms for the Adwords program.
These terms may be accepted by the Advertiser by selecting the box "Yes, I
agree to the above Terms and Conditions". Where the Advertiser selects Indian
Rupee as the billing currency (basis the country selected in Step 2) the
Adwords program will automatically direct the Advertiser to the Advertising
Program Terms relevant to Google India Private Limited.
When contract is entered into by Google India Private Limited, advertiser is
bound by all Adwords program terms & conditions and Google Ireland Limited is
bound to place th advertisement Subject to ad review process, pursuant to the
obligation cast on Google Ireland Limited under the Amended and Restated
Google Adwords Program Distribution Agreement dated 12 December 2005 (referred
to as 'Distribution Agreement'). When the Advertiser accepts the Advertising
Program Terms, the said terms bind both the Advertiser as well as Google India
Private Limited into a contract. Google Ireland would provide the relevant
information contained in the Advertiser account to Google India, as specified
in Clause 5.1 of the 'Distribution Agreement' to enable Google India to
collate the necessary information for its purpose and to prepare and share the
requisite monthly reports that may need to furnish under Clause 5.2 of the
Distribution Agreement.
Page - 40 IT(TP)A.1511 to 1516/Bang/2013
4\. How are Ads uploaded on Google Adwords account?
> Process to upload Ads on Google Adwords account is as under:
> • Sign in to your Adwords account at https://Adwords. google.com click the
> Campaigns tab, and then click the name of the display campaign you want to
> work on.
> • On the "+ AD" menu", click Image ad.
> •In the "Choose how to create your image ad" dialog, click Upload an ad.
> • "Upload image ad" form, click Select an ad group, search for the ad group
> you want, and then click that ad group to add it.
> •Drag images, Flash files, or HTML5 ad files into the gray box or click
> Browse files.
> • Enter a display URL and a landing page.
> • Ensure that the Ad complies with all Adwords program policies • Preview
> your uploaded ad.
> •If you want the ad to show on mobile devices, select the Mobile checkbox.
> • Click Save.
> •To edit your image ad, find your ad on the "Ads" tab and click the pencil
> icon next to the ad that you want to edit.
> • Change the ad name, display URL, or landing page, and then select whether
> you want the ad to show on mobile devices.
> • Click Save.
Page - 41 IT(TP)A.1511 to 1516/Bang/2013 All the aforesaid steps are carried
out by the advertiser or if it so desires it could take assistance of a Google
certified partner to assist him in the process to whom the advertiser pays a
separate fee pursuant to an independent contract.
5\. What happens to the Ad once it's uploaded on the Google Adwords Account?
After advertisement is created or edited by the advertiser and uploaded on
data centers outside India, the review process begins automatically by Google
Ireland Limited. All aspects of the ad are reviewed, including the headline,
description, keywords, and website. These aspects are reviewed according the
Adwords advertising policies. Most ads are reviewed within one business day,
and some ads are eligible to run while in review.
If advertiser ad has any issues, it will stop running. To help get ad running
again, advertiser is notified of the policy by Google Ireland Limited and
informed what the advertiser can next do to get it running again.
Once an advertiser registers for Adwords through the online process and places
his advertisement for display, the advertisement (i.e. the data) is reviewed
through an automated system. An advertisement which is not processed through
the automated system is sent to service providers in different jurisdictions
(ITES team) for review/ conformity with the Google Editorial Guidelines. The
purpose of the ITES outsourcing service engagement is to review the Ads
specified for manual review (originating from various countries) for
conformance with Google's editorial policy/guidelines.
These Ads are reviewed in accordance with Google policies/ guidelines. It is
submitted that appx 94% of the Ads are automatically reviewed by the automated
system outside of Page - 42 IT(TP)A.1511 to 1516/Bang/2013 India. Appx 6% of
the Ads come for manual review performed. The role simply involves reviewing
the Ads sent for manual review and specifying whether Ads uploaded by the
Advertiser is in accordance with the Google policies/ guidelines. The Ad
review outsourcing function is carried out for all global customers including
India. Ad review teams are based in various jurisdictions like India, Dublin,
China, Japan, US, Korea etc. Ad review team consists of Google employees and
third party vendor employees who are graduates from various colleges.
Google India performs outsourced ad review services under an ITES agreement
with GIL for which Google India is separately compensated by GIL. These
services mainly involve IT-enabled data processing work. The said data i.e.
Ads is placed by the advertisers (originating from various countries) and
routed to Google India through a workflow based on language and time zone from
GIL.
Process flow chart in relation to Ad review is enclosed as Exhibit 1.
6\. How are Ads placed on Google website Ads are transmitted through internet
from advertiser to data centers outside India. Where a user enters a query on
search engine, search Engine shows various search results in response to the
user's search query. Google algorithm based on system stored on data centers
outside India alongwith ranks and displays search results, and separate
algorithm that are similarly based on systems outside India ranks and displays
puts in the most relevant ads based on user query. Ads are placed on Google
search website basis the Adwords auction process detailed hereinabove.
Page - 43 IT(TP)A.1511 to 1516/Bang/2013
7\. What are Google Data centers & algorithms and how are they used for
Adwords program?
Google provides its products and services using its proprietary software
(algorithm) and hardware infrastructure housed in data centers outside India.
These data centers and algorithm forms core of Google products/services.
Google India has no role whatsoever in owning and operating the data centers
and algorithm.
Google's infrastructure simplifies storage and processing of large amounts of
data, eases deployment of global products and services, and automates much of
the administration of large-scale clusters of computers.
This infrastructure also shortens the product development cycle and lets
Google pursue R&D initiatives more cost- effectively.
Although most of this infrastructure is not directly visible to users, it is a
part of providing a high-quality user experience and enabling significant
improvements in the relevance of the search and advertising results Algorithms
One of the key drivers of Google's success is the technology behind its
algorithm: the PageRank technology. Historically, search engines relied
heavily on how many times a word appeared on a web page to determine relevance
of that page to a user's query. Google's searches, however, used the PageRank
algorithm to examine the entire link structure of the web and determine which
pages are most important, creating greater accuracy and relevance.
Page - 44 IT(TP)A.1511 to 1516/Bang/2013
8\. How can advertiser manage its Adwords account?
Advertiser needs to manage Adwords account on its own or it can seek services
of Google certified Partners/ marketing agencies.
Google certified Partners/ marketing agencies help with a range of services,
including managing advertisers Adwords account or developing website, help
save time and maximize return on investment. Google Certified Partners are
agencies, marketing professionals, and online experts who have been certified
by Google to manage Adwords accounts. Companies who qualify for Partner status
earn the Google Partner or Premier Google Partner badge. The badge shows that
a company has demonstrated Adwords skill and expertise, met Adwords spend
requirements, delivered agency and client revenue growth, and sustained and
grown their client base.
38\. Beside filling these written submissions, no other literature or books or
documents were filed by the assessee or by the Revenue for the benefit of the
Bench so that the Bench can appreciate the working of Google Adword and Google
analytics, as the parties have failed to bring any tangible material except in
the form of written note mentioned herein above, the Bench, had gone through
the books available in public domain on Google Adword and Google analytics and
also gone through the website of the Google and the Adword links therein. On
the basis of the above, our understanding of how the Google Adword functions
is as under:
> i. The Google Adword gives an opportunity to the advertiser to reach its
> target audience with the advertising messages.
The text based ads are displayed on Google search results Page - 45
IT(TP)A.1511 to 1516/Bang/2013 however the Google Adwords can also be used to
message out in other forms including image, audio and videos. Another way of
advertisement is displaying the advertisement as people browse and engaged
with the content online.
ii. The online advertising is different from the traditional advertising like
advertisement in magazine, newspaper and Television as the online advertising
is measurable on cost per click basis (CPC) and also gives the advantage to
the advertiser to target the particular class into age, sex, language,
religion, region etc,.
iii. The online advertising (Adwords) is a patent tool used by the advertiser
in conjecture with the various sophisticated tools and IPR's of Google. Google
gives the platform, techniques, data based, the IPR, I.P. address and also
suggest potential user/client of the advertiser.
iv. The search advertising with the help of search engine, allows the
advertiser to target the people as they search for key words. This technique
is being used in the search engine, enable the advertisement pop up if the key
words are searched by the people . Advertisement would be shown to the target
consumer advertisement with the help of various tools, which include showing
of advertisement with keywords, phrase, and broad words with generic or same
meaning.
v. The Google search engine or search based campaign gives high conversion
rate and better return of investment then display of advertisement on
television rate, newspaper and magazine.
39\. As one can experience whenever he/she is searching on a search engine the
hotels in Bangalore then various advertisement would Page - 46 IT(TP)A.1511 to
1516/Bang/2013 display in the search results. In this process of display of
advertisement search is focused on key words that people may be entering into
search engine. Thus for displaying advertisement, the algorithm the PageRank
technology is used in Adwords program to target content, things on display
sides, based on behavioral targeting of servers along with website surfers .
Another mode of advertisement by the Google Adword program is a social
advertising program where the advertisements pop up at Face book, Twitter and
other social media with the help of keywords or user profile. In the case of
the social advertisement, the advertisement campaign is targeted based on the
geography, category of people, area of interest etc.
40\. The Google Adword has various benefits namely it shows (a) relevant ads
to the people (b) target to the select audience. (c) It causes minimum
advertising expenses and (d) it is only payable when people are engaged. It
gives the access to the advertiser the tools of the Adword program which can
be accessed through the gateway of Google India / appellant. Through the use
of patented technology with the help of appellant gate way, Adword platform
gives the advertiser to choose the preferred time, season of the year when the
ads are to be shown.. In fact after advertiser accept the terms, thereafter
assessee gives the advertiser accesses to the various tools of Adwards
program. The assessee in its written submissions had accepted this in the
following manner :
Page - 47 IT(TP)A.1511 to 1516/Bang/2013 When contract is entered into by
Google India Private Limited, advertiser is bound by all Adwords program terms
& conditions and Google Ireland Limited is bound to place the advertisement
Subject to ad review process, pursuant to the obligation cast on Google
Ireland Limited under the Amended and Restated Google Adwords Program
Distribution Agreement dated 12 December 2005 (referred to as 'Distribution
Agreement'). When the Advertiser accepts the Advertising Program Terms, the
said terms bind both the Advertiser as well as Google India Private Limited
into a contract. ................
41\. The time zone and display time of advertisement is identified and
allocated by Appellant to the advertiser with the help of the assistance of
the Google Adword program. Adwords program is more focused and targeted in
advertisement campaign which results into more attention, engagement, delivery
and conversion. which is only possible on the Google network with the access
of tools of search engine and Google analytics.
42\. Appellant / Google is having the access to the I.P. address of the
desktop or laptop or I.P. address of the tablet, photographs , time spent on a
web site, eating habits wearing preferences etc. With the help of I.P.
address, Google search engine is having the access to various information and
data pertaining to the user of the website in the form of name, sex, city,
state, country, phone number, religion etc,. Besides the above basic
information, the Google is also having the access of the history of the users
as well as to the behavior of the persons searching Google search engine.
Page - 48 IT(TP)A.1511 to 1516/Bang/2013
43\. Based on various inputs mentioned above and contents of more than two
million websites the appellant / Google was able to provide the effective
focused ad campaign to the advertisers. The Adword programs and tools therein
give the advertiser to pick up the key words, phrases which are similar in
nature and germane, which are in a digitalised tabulated form / grouped
together. The advertiser is having the access to this Google analytics
programme (patented and specialized software) through the appellant. Whenever
one particular key word is searched, the targeted consumers will be shown the
ad and by clicking on the ad, the consumers will be landed on a web page. The
selection and the display of the key word, play a pivotal role in the
advertising campaign and for the purpose, Appellant / Google has provided the
optimization and technique to the advertiser. Google (appellant as service
provider under the agreement) uses its expertise and the information within
its domain and control, to suggest the key words based on the recent marketing
material and need of the advertiser. The appellant also suggests periodical
review of the website home page, product and services which can be bundled
together. The key word planner is a part of the appellant / Google technology
tool. It also suggests the traffic forecast of the list of key words, multiple
key word placed to get new key word ideas. Thus, the key words or planner
which will display a list of additional key word suggestion. Based on initial
key words, the advertiser enters and the tools shows various key word
suggestions automatically grouped into different ad groups. This is only
possible as Appellant permits the use Page - 49 IT(TP)A.1511 to 1516/Bang/2013
of information, data and key planner to the advertisers which is patent and
protected software of the Google. The key word planner also suggests the
suitability of the key words which are useful in the particular month of the
year. The advertiser is able to plan its campaign for optimization or for the
purpose of getting more impression and conversion based on keyword planner.
Based on this impression and forecast, the advertiser is able to bid on the
key words.
44\. The display of the advertisement based on the key words, is dependent
upon the auction price paid by the advertiser. The key word bid at highest
rate by the advertiser would be shown at the top of the search results and
therefore, is likely to fetch more visibility and attention.. With the help of
tools of Google, the advertiser as well as the appellant have an access to the
impact of change of key words on the likely impressions of the advertisement
i.e. how the change in key words would affect the trafficking of the
impression or the visitor to website of the advertiser.
45\. With the help of key word matching, various approaches are being adopted
by the Google Adword program i.e. broad match, phrase match and exact match.
The exact match for example allows the advertiser to focus on the optimization
phrase on the individual key words and it yield the best result possible.
Whereas the phrase Page - 50 IT(TP)A.1511 to 1516/Bang/2013 match is more
processing than the broad match and the broad match provides the greatest
possibility of coverage of the advertisement.
46\. The Appellant facilitate the advertisers to start the campaign of
advertising initially with the help broad match thereafter with phrase match
and thereafter with exact match. Now with the help of the key word management,
the Google Adword program takes care of the miss spelling, singular plural,
abbreviation, acronyms (short word) stemming. For example, if the
advertisement shows the formal shoes, then the key words are formal plus
shoes. if it is broad match key words then the advertisement will show formal
shoe, sport shoe, black dress shoe, party shoes etc. However if the advertiser
had only opted for exact word match, then search result would only show a
formal shoe.
47\. Appellant helps the advertiser with the help of tools of Adwards program
to include or delete various variation of the key words in the realm of
advertisement campaign and similarly the advertiser may with the help of
Google tool can avoid the unnecessary traffic on its website. For example, if
an advertiser does not want the visit of the a surfer who is searching the
service apartment on rent basis and only wants that the person surfing and the
person who is surfing to buy the apartment, then the appellant can help him by
putting negative words of rent in the key-word search. therefore the only
person who is searching for service apartment would be landing on to the Page
- 51 IT(TP)A.1511 to 1516/Bang/2013 advertiser's web site and the person who
is searching on rented service apartment would not be visiting the web site of
advertiser i.e advertisement would not be displayed to him in the searched
results . Thus with the help of this technique of not showing the particular
key word there would be effective improvement in CTR (Click Through Rate) i.e.
the website would be saved from unnecessary visit of the non-convertible or
non-interested visitors. Similarly the same modus operandi can be used for
negative phrase and negative exact match.
48\. Likewise if the advertiser is selling in leather cover for iphone then
the advertiser may not like that the person who is looking for leather cover
for another brand may visit the website of the advertiser. Therefore, the
negative words can be used to avoid to improve the CTR, with the help of these
tools. By using these tools, Appellant had been giving various suggestions to
the advertiser to include various key words.
49\. The Google Adword program is also having Google analytics which is
connected with the Google Adword programme and which is a potential patented
tool to target the key words and the negative key words. This is the USP of
the Google Adword program, which is maintaining thousands of different key
words used by the people to search the website and based on this user
behavior, the Google analytics suggests the appropriate key words to be used
by the advertiser for encouraging the traffic on the website. Similarly the
Google analytics also uses the same data to filter out the negative key Page -
52 IT(TP)A.1511 to 1516/Bang/2013 word on the basis of which an unattended or
unwarranted persons have landed on the website of the advertiser. Appellant is
using all these tools in conjectures with advertisers at the time of granting
the back hand services to the advertisers, as the Appellant is having access
to all these data, information etc.
50\. Appellant suggests the various strategies namely advertisement campaign
to create awareness about the product and services. There are different
advertisement campaigns for engagement, conversion and retention. In all the
advertisement campaigns i.e. for awareness, engagement, conversion and
retention, different strategies tools and suggestions are suggested by
Appellant and those strategies are focused depending upon requirement of the
advertiser. For example, if a new product is to be launched, then the
advertiser would like to go for awareness program to display the features of
its new upcoming products. However if it is for engagement, then a different
strategy and different advertisement content is provided, if its for
conversion, then different strategies are provided and if it is for retention
of the old customer, then refer a friend suggest a friend etc., are being
suggested.
51\. For all these strategies, the Google is having a targeted geography wise,
region wise, gener wise, class wise data base tools. With the use of these
tools there will be an increase of the CTR (Click Through Rate). For that
purposes the expertise and the data base of the Google is essential. With the
help of these strategies, the targets can Page - 53 IT(TP)A.1511 to
1516/Bang/2013 be fixed by the advertiser with the help of Google Adword and
the target can be fixed like where it is to be displayed (tablet, desktop,
mobile, ipad etc.,) search network country, state, city, postal code ad
schedule of the day, hour and the day of display. . Like for example, if a
doctor is free during the noon time of every Friday, then the ad company can
be strategized for showing his ability during the morning / noon time of
Friday or on the evening time of Thursday. Assessee with the help of Google
analytics gives the accurate impression of persons visiting the advertisement
and also provide how many are converted. The Google analytics optimize the
impression, based on the user behavior and this needs to be a major
conversation and campaign, which results into return for investment. There are
various other features of the Adword program which shows that the program is
having embedded tools to display the advertisement of the advertiser to the
targeted consumers.
52\. On the basis of above, in our view the agreement between the assessee and
the Google Ireland was not in the nature of providing the space for
advertisement and display the advertisement to the consumers. As per our
understanding if the agreement was merely for sale and marketing for providing
the space for advertisement, then in that eventuality, it should be treated as
an agreement akin to an agreement for advertisement in newspaper / television.
Page - 54 IT(TP)A.1511 to 1516/Bang/2013
53\. If we look into the advertisement module of Adword program stated herein
above, then we will come to an irresistible conclusion that it is not merely
an agreement to provide the advertisement space but is an agreement for
facilitating the display and publishing of an advertisement to the targeted
customer. If we look into the submission made by the learned AR, it is clear
that the advertiser, selects some key words and on the basis of key words, the
advertisement is displayed on the website or along with the search result as
and when the customer selects the key words relatable to the advertisement.
The module as suggested does not merely work by providing the space in the
Google search engine, but it works only with the help of various patented
tools and software. As we have analyzed detailed functioning of Adword
program, it is clear that with the help of the search tool/software / data
base, the Google is able to identify the targeted consumer/person as per the
requirement of the advertiser. If only service rendered by the assessee was
for providing the space then there is no occasion of either directing/
channelizing the targeted consumers to the advertisement of the advertiser. In
our view truncated search results are displayed keeping in mind the commercial
needs of the advertisers.
Page - 55 IT(TP)A.1511 to 1516/Bang/2013 The Assessee / Google, is having the
access to various data with respect to the age, gender, region, language,
taste habits, food habits, cloth preference, the behavior on the website etc.
and it uses this information for the purposes of selecting the ad campaign and
for maximizing the impression and conversion of the customers to the ads of
the advertisers. Thus the activities of the assessee are not merely
restricting to display of advertisement but is extended to various other
facets as mentioned herein above. In other words, by using the patented
algorithm, appellant decides which advertisement is to be shown to which
consumer visiting millions of website / search engine. Therefore, in our view,
it is not the advertisement or selling of the space rather it is focused
targeted marketing for the product/ services of the advertiser by the
Assessee/Google with the help of technology for reaching the targeted persons
based on the various parameters information etc,. Had it been merely providing
the space then the other features as deliberated and discussed hereinabove
would not be required. Moreover in our view, the space on search engines /
websites are readily available and therefore there was no occasion to market
and sell it. Any person with the help of buying the static IP addresses can
upload the data/ advertisement in the endless web world. Therefore, in our
view, the agreement entered between the assessee and the Google India is not
merely for providing the advertisement space but was in the nature of
providing the services for displaying and promoting of the advertisement to
the targeted consumers.
Page - 56 IT(TP)A.1511 to 1516/Bang/2013
54\. As recorded herein above the Google is working on various platforms and
the said platforms uses various customer data for targeted ads campaign. The
files of these customer data are shared for running the campaign by the
Appellant with the advertisers. The popular ad campaigns of Google is "like-
alike ad", "customer- audience ads", etc where details of like-set of users
are provided by the Appellant for running the targeted campaign. Similarly
target marketing campaigns are done with the help of customer audience (where
the client of advertiser is having its own data and wish to advertise to
them). Like, if ice cream vendor wanted to go for launching of new ice cream
product, it may approach Appellant /Google to share data with similar user
profile or liking for ice-cream, the Appellant in possession of such data
shares this data with the advertiser - ice-cream produce manufacturer. Based
on this ice cream manufacturer formulates its marketing campaign with the help
of Appellant and other channel partners .
55\. In our view IP of Google vests in the search engine technology,
associated software and other features, and hence use of these tools for
performing various activities mentioned herein above, including accepting
advertisements, providing before or after sale services, clearly fall within
the ambit of "Royalty". Therefore, contention of the assessee is not correct
when the assessee is alleging that the user of the search engine is end user
Page - 57 IT(TP)A.1511 to 1516/Bang/2013 and not the Appellant or the
advertisers and therefore it will not fall within the ambit of "Royalty".
56\. Further from the reading of agreement dated 12/12/2005 it is clear that :
> • As per clause 2.6 Appellant will provide after sales services to
> advertisers in accordance with the broad instructions, training and
> standards of Google.
> • As per Clause 3.1, Appellant is provided by the Google Ireland to utiliz
> space through the Adwords program for distribution to advertisers .
> • As per Clause 3.4, provides for minimum level of service as specified in
> Exhibit -C, Appellant shall be solely responsible for providing all customer
> services to advertisers, according to procedures, and in compliance with
> standards, provided by Google. All advertisers shall be instructed by
> Appellant to contact it for support, and not to communicate directly with
> Google.
> • Clause 7 p rovidefor mutual non-disclosure agreement (Exhibit - B) to the
> Adword agreement.
> • As per clause 8, GIL owns all right, title and interest in and to all
> information data including the user data, collected by Google related to
> advertisers in connection with the provisions of Adword programme. Further
> it is the duty of the appellant to maintain all user data in accordance with
> local laws and regulations.
57\. Assessee has been providing after sales support to the advertisers. It is
not the case of Appellant that it is not providing after Page - 58
IT(TP)A.1511 to 1516/Bang/2013 or before sale services to the advertisers. It
is the case of the Appellant that ITEs segment of the Appellant provids
services to Google Ireland to meet the queries of various clients of Google
Ireland worldwide and for that purposes the access to IPRS, confidential
information and NDAs are there.
58\. However as per the agreement dt.12.12.2005, the primary responsibility is
on the Appellant to provide after or before sale services, after having access
to user data, IPRS, secret formula, process, software and confidential
information of Google Ireland, in its own capacity under the agreement
dt.12.12.2005 and not under the agreement dt.01.04.2004. The appellant, for
the purposes of managing its own affairs can afford to provide these services
to the advertiser through the route of agreement dt.01.04.2004, but the
rendition of services by the appellant to the advertisers in India are
obligations under the agreement dt.12.12.2005 and not under the agreement
dt.01.04.2004. The substance of the agreements is to be given precedence over
the form of the agreements.
Clause 6 of the service agreement dt.01/4/2004 provides for confidential
information, access and use of confidential information and further provides
not to disclose confidential information, ownership and return of confidential
information and injunctive relief.
59\. In our view without exercising its right under this agreement, (1.4.2004)
the obligation of the Appellant under the agreement dated Page - 59
IT(TP)A.1511 to 1516/Bang/2013 12/12/2005 and under the appellant-advertiser
agreements cannot be discharged. Therefore the AO was right in relying on this
agreement dated 1/4/2004 for the purposes of bringing the case under Royalty,
as p er th e provisions of section 9(1)(vi) of the Act read with DTAA.
As per clause 8 of the agreement dt.12.12.2005 mentioned herein above, the
distributor is under an obligation to maintain the user data and therefore is
having access to such data. The said user data is being used by the appellant
for discharging its obligation towards the advertisers and the claim of the
assessee is wrong that it does not have the access to the user data.
60\. Now coming to the next argument that space of advertisement is being sold
by the assessee to the advertiser, Adword program, is working on various
parameters, variables, dynamics and using various permutation and combination
to show the advertisement to targeted consumers. The advertisements on Adword
program are changing on day to day, week to week or month to month basis. The
online bids are required to be placed by the various competitors on dynamic
basis. If we assume that the space is sold by the assessee to the advertiser,
then there is no question of bidding or out- bidding for running or displaying
of the advertisements. The inter-se bidding among the advertisers for
displaying the advertisement in real-time basis, clearly shows that the space
is not sold by the assessee, rather the placement of the advertisement to a
particular targeted consumer at a particular Page - 60 IT(TP)A.1511 to
1516/Bang/2013 time is bided among the advertisers and for that, services were
rendered by the appellant with the help of patented Adword program . If one
advertiser bid for the particular key word like sport shoes higher than the
other competitor, then the advertisement of that sport shoes would be
displayed first in comparison to other competitors. However if in the next
week there is sale for the product of the second bidder pertaining to sport
shoes, the second bidder may bid higher in comparison with the first bidder,
In that eventuality, the advertisement of the second bidder would be displayed
first on the search result, in comparison to the first advertiser. Thus there
was no sale of ad space on the web for displaying of advertisement on a
particular place / site. Even otherwise, if we consider that the appellant is
selling advertisement space then, at which location/ web place, the said ad-
space was sold by the appellant to the advertiser,. It is the case of the
assessee that the ads are stored in the servers situated outside India. In our
view, the appellant has not sold the storage space on the server outside India
nor it has sold the identified / demarcated ad on the web site / search
engine. Further if the ad-space is sold, then the Adword program would be
incapable of functioning as the advertisement would be shown to various
locations, persons and targeted consumers. In our view, there is no sale of
space, as concluded hereinabove rather it is a continuous targeted
advertisement campaign to the targeted and focused consumer in a particular
language to a particular region with the help of digital data and other
information with respect to the person browsing the search engine or Page - 61
IT(TP)A.1511 to 1516/Bang/2013 visiting the website. Further, the argument of
selling the space is not available to the assessee and we are of the opinion
that it is not merely selling the space but it is rendering the services by
making available the technology permitted by the Google to the appellant and
permitting the same to be used by advertiser. For purpose of targeted focused
advertisement campaign by using the gateway of Google India / assessee. Thus
the activities clearly fall within the ambit of 'Royalty' as mentioned in
Income Tax Act and under DTAA.
61\. In our view though Appellant claimed to be separately earning revenue
from ITES segment, under a separate outsourcing service agreement with Google
Ireland which is independent of the distribution of advertising space to the
advertisers in India, we are not in agreement with the same.
62\. Under the advertisement distribution agreement, it is the prime
responsibility of the Appellant to give post and prior sales service for
resolving the issues of the advertisers, and to ensure due compliances of
applicable laws. All these functions are to be discharged by the Appellant
through it ITES segment. Further inputs from ITES are always required in the
business model of Appellant, without which there cannot be any targeted
marketing for advertisements and promotion of sales of advertisers.
Page - 62 IT(TP)A.1511 to 1516/Bang/2013
63\. Therefore, the services rendered under ITES agreement cannot be divorced
with the activities undertaken by the assessee under the distribution
agreement. Both the agreements are connected with naval chord with each other.
The assessee was duty-bound to provide as per the distribution agreement
various ITES services, which the assessee had wrongly claimed to have been
provided not under the distribution agreement, but under the service
agreement. This is only a design / structure prepared by the assessee to avoid
the payment of taxes.
64\. The appellant cannot be compensated by the GIL for rendering the services
to itself or for rendering the services which the appellant is required to
render under the distribution agreement. The use of intellectual property is
embedded in the Google Adwords programme which is necessary to be used by the
appellant for rendering the services prior or post sales of the advisement
space under the distribution agreement or service agreement.
65\. As is clear from the above, the appellant was using the customer data not
only for rendering the services under ITES but also for promoting marketing
and distributing the ad space on the search engine and websites. The customer
data is a confidential data which is in control of the Google, which is
maintained by the appellant as well and the entire Adwords Programme works
around customer data, users profile etc. It is inconceivable to run the Google
/ appellant marketing programme without having access to the customer data.
Page - 63 IT(TP)A.1511 to 1516/Bang/2013 Therefore the argument of the
assessee that it was only using customer data, IPR etc., for rendering the
services relating to ITES is incorrect. In our view, the conclusion of the
authorities below that the use of the confidential clause and confidential
data by the appellant was correct. Therefore in our view amount was being paid
by the Assessee to Google Ireland for the use of patent invention, model,
design, secret formula, process, etc .
66\. It was further contended by the learned AR that there is no transfer of
the trademark or copy right of Google to the assessee and therefore it will
not fall within the purview of the royalty. It was submitted by the learned AR
that there is no specific transfer of any patent trademark to the appellant
and the use of Google trademark and other brand features referred in the
distribution agreement are merely incidental to unable the appellant to
distribute the ad space in India.
67\. It was submitted by Assessee that mere use of name of brand for procuring
ad contracts would not amount to use of trademark and, hence, even assuming
that a part of the price paid by the Appellant to Google Ireland can be
characterized as a payment for the alleged use for trade mark such income
would not be liable to tax as royalty under the provisions of the Act . For
this purposes the Appellant relied upon financial and submitted that no part
of the said sum of Rs. 119.82 crores was the payment for use of trademark, as
the Appellant was only having a right to use the trademark for distribution
purpose. Assessee submitted that no right to Page - 64 IT(TP)A.1511 to
1516/Bang/2013 commercially exploit its trademark was given by the GIL and
therefore, having regard to the following decisions of the Hon'ble Delhi High
Court, the payment cannot be characterized as a payment by way of royalty. In
any event, no payment as such is made for the use of the trademark.
Sheraton International Inc v DDIT [2009) 313 ITR 267 (Delhi HC) "In view of
the aforesaid findings of the Tribunal that the main service rendered by the
assessee to its clients-hotels was advertisement, publicity and sales
promotion keeping in mind their mutual interest and, in that context, the use
of trademark, trade name or the stylized 'S' or other enumerated services
referred to in the agreement with the assessee were incidental to the said
main service, it rightly concluded, in our view, that the payments received
were neither in the nature of royalty under section 9(1)(vi) read with
Explanation 2 or in the nature of fee for technical services under section
9(1) (vii) read with Explanation 2 or taxable under article 12 of the DTAA.
The payments received were thus, rightly held by the Tribunal, to be in the
nature of business income. And since the assessee admittedly does not have a
permanent establishment under the article 7 of the DTAA 'business income'
received by the assessee cannot be brought to tax in India. The findings of
the Tribunal on this account cannot be./aulted. The Tribunal pointedly
observed that there was no evidence brought on record by the revenue to enable
them to hold that the agreement was a colourable device, in particular, that
the payments received were for use of trade mark, brand name and stylized mark
'SY' Formula One World Championship Ltd. v CIT [20161 76 taxmann.com 6 (Delhi
HC):
Page - 65 IT(TP)A.1511 to 1516/Bang/2013 "There is no doubt that the main
object of the RPC and the relevant provisions of the ALA was not the
permission to use the trademarks, but granting and designating Jaypee as the
promoter of the event and laying out the rights of the parties, particularly
FO WC as regards the event, the spaces to be made available to it exclusively,
the sole and exclusive rights over all event related activities, the right to
exploit them commercially, etc. The use of the mark on the tickets sold by
Jaypee was only incidental. The AAR's findings that the use of the mark and
intellectual property rights benefitted Jaypee, which paid for them, is
entirely erroneous. Jaypee permitted use, as it were, was for a limited
duration and of an extremely restricted manner; this is contained in the
definition of emitted use' in the ALA.As event promoter and host Jaypee had to
publicize the F] Grand Prix Championship. Therefore, it was bound to use the
F] marks, logos and devices; however, it was not authorized to use the marks
on any merchandise or service offered by it. This condition, in the opinion of
the court, places the matter beyond the pale of controversy; the use of the
trademarks were purely incidental. The conclusion of the AAR is therefore,
incorrect. The answer to the question is that the amounts paid to FOWC by
Jaypee were not 'royalty' within the meaning of article 13 of the DTAA, as
they were business income and could not be brought to tax under the head of
'royalty.'
68\. On the other hand ld Counsel for revenue had submitted that contention of
the assessee is not correct, as the use of trade mark is not incidental and
hence amount to royalty. The assessee has acquired a right under the
distribution agreement to sell the advertisement space in the search engine
which is an IPR including the trademarked. The assessee is using the
distribution agreement coupled with IPR as tool of the trade and hence the
Page - 66 IT(TP)A.1511 to 1516/Bang/2013 payment towards use of trademarked is
also in the nature of royalty and liable to tax under the Act as well as under
DTAA.
69\. The reliance on the judgment of the Delhi High Court in the case of
Sheraton International 313 ITR 267 and Formula One World Championship Delhi
High Court (2016) 76 taxman.com is not relevant for the issue under
consideration. In all the judgments relied on by the assessee and referred to
above, the main service provided was not the advertisement and providing of
any license to use the IPR was not involved. Whereas in the present case the
use of IPR is involved. In the facts and circumstances of the above cases the
Hon'ble Courts have held that use of trademark were incidental to the main
purpose of the agreement. The main purpose of the agreement is referred to as
carrying out advertisement, publicity and sales promotion. The main purpose/
business do not involve providing license to use any IPR and IPR was not used
as a tool of the trade.
70\. We have heard the rival contentions of the parties and perused the
record. Clause 1.5 of the agreement dt.12.12.2005 provides Google Brand
features. As per the said clause, the appellant was permitted to use tradename
trademarks, service marks, domains or other distinctive brand features of
Google solely for the use under the distribution agreement. Further, clause 6
of the agreement provides the brand feature like IPRs relating to brand
features, the said IPRs Page - 67 IT(TP)A.1511 to 1516/Bang/2013 were granted
by the Google to the appellant on a non-exclusive and non-sub-licenceable
basis for the purposes of marketing and distribution of Adword programme,
subject to the condition mentioned therein.
If we look into the activities of the assessee, for the purpose marketing and
distribution of Adword programme, then, it is not possible for the appellant
to undertake these activities, without the use of the Google, trademark and
other brand features. Further, for marketing and distribution of Google Adword
programme, the use of the Google trademark is essential and pivotal for doing
the business of the advertisement on the search engine and the websites. In
the absence of the Google trademark, it is difficult to comprehend that
Assessee would attract lot of advertisers for its advertisement space on
search engine and web site . Appellant was getting lot of engagement and
clientage only on account of Google trademark . It may not be possible to have
this kind of business inflow of advertisements without using the trade mark of
Google . The distribution agreement had not made any provision for making the
payment for the Google brand features and had only made provision for making
the lumpsum payment under the agreement. As per Exhibit- A. Therefore in our
view, the payments made by the assessee under the agreement was not only for
marking and promoting the Adword programmes but was also for the use of Google
brand features.. Needless to add that the said Google brand features were used
by the appellant as marketing tool Page - 68 IT(TP)A.1511 to 1516/Bang/2013
for promoting and advertising the advertisement space, which is main activity
of Assessee and is not incidental activities .The use of trademark for
advertising marketing and booking in the case of Hotel Shereton (Supra) as
well as in the case of Formula 1 were incidental activities of the assessee
therein as the main activities in the cases were providing Hotel Rooms and
organizing Car Racing respectively whereas in the present case the main
activity of the assessee is to do marketing of advertisement space for Google
Adwords Programme. Therefore, these two judgments are not applicable to the
facts of the present case. Hence for this reason also the payment made by the
Appellant to GIL also falls within the four corners of royalty as defined
under the provisions of ACT as well as under the DTAA.
Grant of distribution rights involves transfer of rights in process
71\. Assessee before us had submitted that AO, wrongly drawn reference to the
activities undertaken by the ITES division, observed that the Appellant has to
perform functions which involve approving and administering advertisements to
conform to the Google editorial guidelines and responding to customer queries.
Further Appellant submitted AO also observed that the front-end portion is
what the Advertiser or the end-user sees while the back-end portion is
accessible only by Google Ireland and Google India and it was wrongly observed
that without access to the back-end, the Assessee cannot perform its
activities of marketing and distribution.
Page - 69 IT(TP)A.1511 to 1516/Bang/2013
72\. Assessee in this regard, has submitted that the Assessee does not have
access to any back-end portion as referred by the AO as databases, software
tools, etc under the Distribution Agreement. Therefore, the conclusion of AO
that the Appellant has been granted the use of or the right to use the process
in the Ad Words platform, especially for the purpose of marketing and
distribution is factually incorrect and is based on surmise and conjecture.
73\. Further Appellant submitted that the Adwords, though a program, cannot be
considered as a "process" within the meaning under Explanation 2(i) to section
9(1)(vi) of the Act. Further Adwords Programme cannot be equated to a secret
process since information relating to the program is freely available to the
public on Google's website along with explanatory videos regarding the same.
Hence, Google Ad Words program cannot be considered a secret process and
hence, it does not constitute "process" within the meaning of the term as
defined in Clause (i).
74\. On the other hand ld Counsel for revenue had submitted that contention of
th e assessee is not correct as the appellant is using the secret formula/
process for marketing and advertising the advertising programme of the
advertisers .
75\. In this regard it will suffice to say that we had already concluded in
the foregoing paragraphs that though Adwords Programme along with associated
videos are available in public Page - 70 IT(TP)A.1511 to 1516/Bang/2013 domain
but how this programme functions, for targeted marketing campaign, promoting
advertisements are only possible with the use of secret formula, confidential
customer data only . This secret process of targeting the customers, is not in
public domain therefore in our view also the assessing officer was right when
it concluded that the appellant was using the secret process for marketing
promoting displaying of the advertisement.
76\. It was submitted by ld AR that revenue earned from advertisement is not
liable to be taxed as royalty or fees for technical services and is required
to be taxed as business profit and in absence of any PE, remittance made by GI
to assessee cannot be taxed in India. In this regard it was submitted OECD had
set up a Technical Advisory Group ('TAG') to examine the issues arising in
characterization of ecommerce payments. The TAG has categorized e-commerce
transactions into 28 types including internet Advertising. The TAG has
concluded that the payments arising from advertisements would constitute
business profits falling under Article 7 rather than royalties. The relevant
extract of the TAG report is reproduced:
> "Category 17: Advertising Definitions Advertisers pay to have their
> advertisements disseminated to users of a given website. So-called "banner
> ads" are small graphical images embedded in a web page, which when Page - 71
> IT(TP)A.1511 to 1516/Bang/2013 clicked by the user will load the web page
> specified by the advertiser. Advertising rates are most commonly specified
> in terms of a cost per thousand "impressions" (number of times the ad is
> displayed to a user), though rates might also be on the number of "click-
> throughs" (number of times the ad is clicked by a user).
> Analysis and conclusions
30\. All members of the Group agreed that the payments arising from these
transactions would constitute business profits under Article 7 rather than
royalties, even under alternative definitions of royalties that cover payments
'for use, or the right to use, industrial, commercial or scientific
equipment."
77\. Further it was submitted that Central Board of Direct Taxes vide F No
5001 122/ 99 dated December 16, 1999 has constituted a High Power Committee on
'Electronic Commerce and Taxation'. The committee has held that payments
arising from advertisements would constitute profits and gains from business
or profession. It was submitted that Technical Advisory Group report and the
High powered Committee report are binding in nature. In this regard, ld AR
submitted that India had a representative as part of the Technical Advisory
Group constituted by the OECD which representative did not express any dissent
to the view expressed and High Powered Committee was constituted by the CBDT
itself and all the members of the Committee have agreed with the view taken,
including members from the CBDT .Further it was submitted that coordinate
bench in the matter of Right Florist (supra) has agreed with the views of the
High Page - 72 IT(TP)A.1511 to 1516/Bang/2013 Powered Committee and stated as
under:
> "13.1n the light of the above discussions, even as per the High Power
> Committee, a website per Se, which is the only form of Google's presence in
> India - so far as test of primary meaning i.e. basic rule PE is concerned,
> cannot be a permanent establishment under the domestic law. We are I
> considered agreement with the views of the HPC on this issue"
78\. Further coordinate Mumbai bench of the ITAT in the case of eBay
International AG (140 ITD 20) has upheld the reliance placed on the aforesaid
reports while holding that the income received by the assessee in the said
case towards operation of its website is business income. Relevant extracts
are reproduced below for your reference:
> "13. The ld. CIT(A) has also referred to High Powered Committee (HPC) on
> "Electronic Commerce Taxation" constituted by the Central Board of Direct
> Taxes, which has stated in its report that such amount would be in the
> nature of payment for business activities. He also referred to The Technical
> Advisory Group (TAG) formed by OECD, which, vide its report on Tax Treaty
> Characterized Issues Arising From E-Commerce issued in February, 2001, has
> also opined that revenue earned by operating online facility are in the
> nature of business profits falling under Article 7 of the Treaty. These
> findings recorded by the id. CIT(A) have remained uncontroverted by the id.
> DR.
> 14\. In view of the above discussion, there remains no doubt whatsoever that
> the fee received by the assessee can't be described as 'Fee for technical
> services', but is in the nature of 'Business profits'. In our considered
> opinion the Id. CIT(A) was fully justified in holding accordingly. The
> grounds raised by Revenue in support of this solitary issue in its appeal,
> are thus not allowed"
> Page - 73 IT(TP)A.1511 to 1516/Bang/2013
79\. Per contra it was submitted by DR that reference made by the assessee to
High-Power Committee dated 16/12/1999 and Tax Treaty dated 1/2/2001 was
misplaced. The facts in the present case are altogether different and the same
has no relevance for the dispute in the present case.
80\. The reading of the decision in Right Florist P. Ltd (supra), it is clear
that the coordinate bench relied upon the decision of High- Power Committee on
the premises that the Advertisers paying to website for advertisements
disseminated to users of a given website and had concluded that the payment
would be a business profit and is not taxable in India in the absence of PE.
81\. We have in detail examined the working of Adwords Programme herein above
and come to the conclusion that Appellant makes use of the user data /customer
data ( personal information, general information like user profile, age sex,
language, type of mobile, time when customer is visiting particular web site/
searching on search engine , how much time is spent on internet and on which
web site etc for the purposes of targeted/ focus marketing campaign for the
advertisers ) and the patented technology , with algorithm to advertise/
disseminate ads, which was not the case either before the High Powered
Committee or in the matter of Right Florist P. Ltd (supra). Present case is
not a case of merely displaying or exhibiting of Page - 74 IT(TP)A.1511 to
1516/Bang/2013 advertisement by the advertiser on the website, case in hand is
a case of use of patented technology, secret process, use of trade mark by the
appellant, therefore decision of coordinate bench in the case of Right Florist
Private Limited is not applicable to the facts and circumstances of the
present case. In the present case the Google India has been provided access to
the IPR, Google Brand features, secret process embedded in Adwords Programme
as tool of the trade for generation of income. Therefore the payment made by
the appellant to Google Ireland is royalty and not the business profit and
therefore chargeable to tax in India.
82\. Ld. AR further relied upon para 21 of the decision of the coordinate
bench in Right Florist Private Limited, (supra),Para 6 of Pinstorm
Technologies P. Ltd (supra) and para 8 of Yahoo India P. Ltd, (supra) to prove
that the issue of online advertisement had been considered in all the
decisions and it was held that the payment made by the advertiser to the
website owner was business profit and in the absence of any business
connection and PE in India and not the Royalty. Therefore, the said payment
made to the service provider were not chargeable in India.
82.1 Per contra, the Ld. DR sought to distinguish the facts of the present
case and of the decisions referred in the preceding paragraph.
82.2 We have gone through the above said decisions. In para 8 of Yahoo India
(supra), coordinate bench held as under :
Page - 75 IT(TP)A.1511 to 1516/Bang/2013 "8. As already noted by us, the
payment made by assessee in the present case to Yahoo Holdings (Hong Kong)
Ltd., was for services rendered for uploading and display of the banner
advertisement of the Department of Tourism of India on its portal. The banner
advertisement hosting services did not involve use or right to use by the
assessee any industrial, commercial or scientific equipment and no such use
was actually granted by Yahoo Holdings (Hong Kong) Ltd., to assessee company.
Uploading and display of banner advertisement on its portal was entirely the
responsibility of Yahoo Holdings (Hong Kong) Ltd. and assessee company was
only required to provide the banner Ad to Yahoo Holdings (Hong Kong) Ltd., for
uploading the same on its portal. Assessee thus had no right to access the
portal of Yahoo Holdings (Hong Kong) Ltd. and there is nothing to show any
positive act of utilization or employment of the portal of Yahoo Holdings
(Hong Kong) Ltd., by the assessee company. Having regard to all these facts of
the case and keeping in view the decision of the Authority of Advance Rulings
in the case of Isro Satellite Centre (supra) and Dell International Services
(India) (P.) Ltd. case (supra ), we are of the view that the payment made by
assessee to Yahoo Holdings (Hong Kong) Ltd., for the services rendered for
uploading and display of the banner advertisement of the Department of Tourism
of India on its portal was not in the nature of royalty but the same was in
the nature of business profit and in the absence of any PE of Yahoo Holdings
(Hong Kong) Ltd., in India, it was not chargeable to tax in India. Assessee
thus was not liable to deduct tax at source from the payment made to Yahoo
Holdings (Hong Kong) Ltd., for such services and in our opinion, the payment
so made cannot be disallowed by invoking the provisions of section 40(a) for
non-deduction of tax. In that view of the matter we delete the disallowance
made by the Assessing Officer and confirmed by the learned CIT(A) under
section 40(a) and allow the appeal of the assessee."
Relying upon para 8 of Yahoo India (supra), the coordinate in para 6 of the
decision in Pinstorm (supra) held as under :
6\. We have heard arguments of both the sides and also perused the relevant
material on record. It is observed that a similar issue had come up for
consideration before the Tribunal in the case of Yahoo India (P.) Ltd. v. Dy.
CIT [2011] 46 SOT 105 / 11 taxmann.com 431 (Mum.)(URO), the Tribunal decided
the same in favour of the assessee for the following reasons given in
paragraph No.8 of its order:
> "8. As already noted by us, the payment made by assessee in the present case
> to Yahoo Holdings (Hong Kong) Ltd. was for services rendered for uploading
> and display of the banner advertisement of the Department of Tourism of
> India on its portal. The banner advertisement hosting services did not
> involve use or right to use by the assessee any industrial, commercial or
> scientific equipment and no such use was actually granted by Yahoo Holdings
> (Hong Kong) Ltd. to assessee company. Uploading and display of banner
> advertisement on its portal was entirely the responsibility of Yahoo
> Holdings (Hong Kong) Ltd. and assessee company was only required to provide
> the banner Ad to Yahoo Holdings (Hong Kong) Ltd. for uploading the same on
> its portal. Assessee thus had no right to access the portal of Page - 76
> IT(TP)A.1511 to 1516/Bang/2013 Yahoo Holdings (Hong Kong) Ltd. and there is
> nothing to show any positive act of utilization or employment of the portal
> of Yahoo Holdings (Hong Kong) Ltd. by the assessee company. Having regard to
> all these facts of the case and keeping in view the decision of the
> Authority of Advance Rulings in the case of Isro Satellite Centre 307 ITR 59
> and Dell International Services (India) (P.) Ltd. 305 ITR 37, we are of the
> view that the payment made by assessee to Yahoo Holdings (Hong Kong) Ltd.
> for the services rendered for uploading and display of the banner
> advertisement of the Department of Tourism of India on its portal was not in
> the nature of royalty but the same was in the nature of business profit and
> in the absence of any PE of Yahoo Holdings (Hong Kong) Ltd. in India, it was
> not chargeable to tax in India. Assessee thus was not liable to deduct tax
> at source from the payment made to Yahoo Holdings (Hong Kong) Ltd. for such
> services and in our opinion, the payment so made cannot be disallowed by
> invoking the provisions of section 40(a) for non-deduction of tax. In that
> view of the matter we delete the disallowance made by the A.O. and confirmed
> by the learned CIT (A) u/s 40(a) and allow the appeal of the assessee."
Similarly, in para 21 of the decision in Right Florist (supra), it was held as
under :
21\. That takes us to the question whether second limb of Section 5(2)(b),
i.e. income 'deemed to accrue or arise in India', can be invoked in this case.
So far as this deeming fiction is concerned, it is set out, as a complete code
of this deeming fiction, in Section 9 of the Income Tax Act, 1961, and Section
9(1) specifies the incomes which shall be deemed to accrue or arise in India.
In the Pinstorm Technologies (P.) Ltd.'s case (supra) and in Yahoo India (P.)
Ltd's case (supra), the coordinate benches have dealt with only one segment of
this provision i.e. Section 9(1)(vi), but there is certainly much more to this
deeming fiction. Clause (i) of section 9(1) of the Act provides that all
income accruing or arising whether directly or indirectly through or from any
'business connection' in India, or through or from any property in India or
through or from any asset or source of income in India, etc shall be deemed to
accrue or arise in India. However, as far as the impugned receipts are
concerned, neither it is the case of the Assessing Officer nor has it been
pointed out to us as to how these receipts have arise on account of any
business connection in India. There is nothing on record do demonstrate or
suggest that the online advertising revenues generated in India were supported
by, serviced by or connected with any entity based in India. On these facts,
Section 9(1)(i) cannot have any application in the matter. Section 9(1)(ii),
(iii), (iv) and (v) deal with the incomes in the nature of salaries, dividend
and interest etc, and therefore, these deeming fictions are not applicable on
the facts of the case before us. As far as Page - 77 IT(TP)A.1511 to
1516/Bang/2013 applicability of Section 9(1)(vi) is concerned, coordinate
benches, in the cases of Pinstorm Technologies (P.) Ltd. (supra) and Yahoo
India (P.) Ltd. (supra), have dealt with the same and, for the detailed
reasons set out in these erudite orders - extracts from which have been
reproduced earlier in this order, concluded that the provisions of Section
9(1)(vi) cannot be invoked. We are in considered and respectful agreement with
the views so expressed by our distinguished colleagues.
....................................
(emphasis supplied by us ) 82.3. After going through all the above cited
decisions of the coordinate bench, we are unable to persuade ourselves to
agree with the reasoning for treating the payment made by the advertisers as a
business profit and not as a royalty. As in our opinion, the detailed working
of the Adword programme of the appellant and GIL clearly shows that the
appellant is having the right to access not only to the patented technology
but also to the customer data, information (like telephone number, user
behaviors, region, gender , language, colour, photographs, place of visit,
mobile device used, time spent etc.,) and which was not the case in the the
decisions in Yahoo India, Pinstorm and Right Florist (supra). As clear from
the distribution agreement, the assessee is also having right, title and
interest over the intellectual property right of Google. Further, as per the
standard advertisement with the advertiser, which specifically empowers the
appellant to delete / remove / withdraw the advertisement. The relevant
portion of the agreement reads as under :
Page - 78 IT(TP)A.1511 to 1516/Bang/2013 "Google India P. Ltd, Advertising
Program Terms :
1..........................
2\. The Program :...................Customer grants Google permission to
utilize an automated software program to retrieve and analyse websites
associated with the services for ad quality and serviing purposes, unless
Customer specifically opts out of the evaluation in a manner specified by
Google. Google or Partners may reject or remove any ad or Target any time for
any or no reason. Google may modify the Program or these Terms at any time
without liability and your use of the Program after notice that Terms have
changed indicates acceptance of the Terms."
This vesting of power in the appellant, clearly demonstrate give the appellant
in India right to access the portal / Google Adword program at any point of
time. In view of the above, the decisions relied upon by the Ld. AR are not
applicable to the facts of the case. Accordingly, all the ground nos.1 to 11
of the appeals of the assessee are dismissed.
GROUND NO.12
83\. We will deal with ground No.12 which is common only in asst. year 2007-08
and 2008-09.
84\. Learned counsel for the assessee has brought to our notice the following
dates and events:
Page - 79 IT(TP)A.1511 to 1516/Bang/2013 20/11/2012 AO issued notice under
section 201 as under:
20/11/2012 The assessee filed a reply to the notice issued by the AO and
submitted that fee paid by the assessee to GI is covered under the definition
of 'royalty' as per Explanation to Section 9(1)(vi) of the Act and further it
was submitted that the assessee is a mere non-exclusive distributor of Adworbs
in India. Distribution fee is payable to GI on distribution of Adwords in
India and is not in relation to any transfer of any right or use any patent,
public invention. Further it was mentioned that all rights, title and interest
in relation to information on data including user data provided by the user
are owned by the GI. Further, the assessee relied upon the report of TAG set
up by the OECD and the report of the High Power committee constituted by the
CBDT vide order dated 16/12/1999 on Electronic communication taxation wherein
it was held that payments arising from advertisements would constitute profits
and gains from business or profession other than royalty. It was also
submitted that no remittance has been made by the assessee to GI in relation
to remittance of distribution fee to GI for financial years 2005-06 to
2010-11.
18/01/2013 Show cause notice was issued asking the assessee to confirm whether
any sum has actually been credited to the account of GI during the FYs 2005-06
to 2010-11.
29/01/2013 The assessee replied to show cause notice dated 18/1/2013 and it
Page - 80 IT(TP)A.1511 to 1516/Bang/2013 was mentioned as under Further, it
was mentioned in para.3 (at page 129 of paper book) that as per Article 12 of
the India-Ireland Double Taxation Avoidance Agreement, income in nature of
royalty is chargeable to tax in hands of non-resident only on receipt basis
and there is no obligation on the assessee to withhold tax only when the same
is chargeable to tax in India. Further fees, if any, would be required only at
the time of actual remittance and not on credit of books of account.
15/02/2013 The assessee replied to the questionnaire dated 31/1/2013 and in
the said reply in para.3, 5, 6, 7, 9, 10 and 11 mentioned as under:
Page - 81 IT(TP)A.1511 to 1516/Bang/2013 8/02/2013 The Revenue issued another
show cause notice asking the assessee to furnish following information
15/2/2013 Assessee filed reply page 139 22/2/2013 The AO passed order u/s
201(1) and 201(1A) of the IT Act for assessment years 2006-07 to 2012-13.
85\. After giving details of the proceedings which took place before the AO,
in respect of ground NO.12 for assessment years 2007-08 and 2008-09, it was
contended by the learned counsel for the assessee that Page - 82 IT(TP)A.1511
to 1516/Bang/2013 the notice issued for declaring assessee in default was
barred by limitation as held by the Hon'ble Delhi High Court in CIT vs. NHK
Japan Broadcasting Corporation (305 ITR 137) wherein it was held that
initiation of proceedings u/s 201 against the assessee in respect of
assessment year 1990-91 was barred by limitation having been initiated beyond
reasonable period of 4 years. In paras.18, 19, 20 of the judgment, it has been
held as under:
> "18. Insofar as the Income-tax Act is concerned, our attention has been
> drawn to section 153(1)(a) thereof which prescribes the time-limit for
> completing the assessment, which is two years from the end of the assessment
> year in which the income was first assessable. It is well-known that the
> assessment year follows the previous year and, therefore, the time- limit
> would be three years from the end of the financial year. This seems to be a
> reasonable period as accepted under section 153 of the Act, though for
> completion of assessment proceedings. The provisions of re-assessment are
> under sections 147 and 148 of the Act and they are on a completely different
> footing and, therefore, do not merit consideration for the purposes of this
> case.
> 19\. Even though the period of three years would be a reasonable period as
> prescribed by section 153 of the Act for completion of proceedings, we have
> been told that the Income-tax Appellate Tribunal has, in a series of
> decisions, some of which have been mentioned in the order which is under
> challenge before us, taken the view that four years would be a reasonable
> period of time for initiating action, in a case where no limitation is
> prescribed.
Page - 83 IT(TP)A.1511 to 1516/Bang/2013
20\. The rationale for this seems to be quite clear - if there is a time-limit
for completing the assessment then the time-limit for initiating the
proceedings must be the same if not less. Nevertheless, the Tribunal has given
a greater period for commencement or initiation of proceedings."
86\. Further our attention was drawn to the decision in the case of CIT vs.
Bharat Hotels Ltd. (384 ITR 77) wherein the jurisdictional High Court in
paras.10, 26, and 27 held as under:
> "10. Admittedly, at the relevant time relating to assessment year 2002-03,
> there was no limitation provided for initiating proceedings under Section
> 201\. The Tribunal has, after considering the various decisions of the Apex
> Court, as well as the Delhi, Kerala, Punjab & Haryana High Courts, held that
> the proceedings having been initiated by the Revenue beyond the period of
> four years from the end of the relevant financial year, would be barred by
> limitation.
Challenging the same, Sri K V Aravind, learned counsel for the Revenue has
vehemently argued that when there is no limitation provided under the Act,
proceedings can be initiated at any stage and at any time. In the alternative,
he submitted that even if it is held that proceedings are to be initiated
within a reasonable time, then too, the period of seven years from the end of
the financial year, as has been provided for by the Finance Act, 2014, would
be the reasonable time. He has submitted that Section 153 of the Act provides
for time for completion of assessments and reassessments. Sub-section (1) of
the said Section provides for assessment to be completed within two years from
the end of the assessment year and one year from the end of the financial year
in Page - 84 IT(TP)A.1511 to 1516/Bang/2013 which the return was filed. He
relies on sub-section (2) of Section 153 which provides that no order of
assessment, reassessment or recomputation shall be made under Section 147
after expiry of one year from the end of the financial year in which notice
under Section 148 was served. According to him, Section 147 of the Act would
apply for computing the reasonable period and not Section 153(1) of the Act,
and since notice under Section 148 could be served up to six years from the
end of the relevant assessment year (in cases where the amount involved is
more than Rs.1 lakh) coupled with Section 153(2) of the Act providing one year
time for passing the order of assessment, reassessement or recomputation in
which the notice under Section 148 was served, the same would amount to seven
years from the end of the financial year and he thus contends that reasonable
period of limitation under Section 201 of the Act should also be seven years
from the end of the relevant financial year.
26\. Sri K V Aravind, learned counsel for the Revenue has submitted that sub-
section (1A) of Section 201 of the Act provides for payment of interest. The
sub- section, as it stood at the relevant time, prior to 1.7.2010, reads as
under:
"(1A) Without prejudice to the provisions of sub-section (1), if any such
person, principal officer or company as is referred to in that sub- section
does not deduct the whole or any part of the tax or after deducting fails to
pay the tax as required by or under this Act, he or it shall be liable to pay
simple interest at 'one per cent for every month or part of a month on the
amount of such tax from the date on which such tax was deductible to the date
on which such tax is actually paid and such interest shall be paid Page - 85
IT(TP)A.1511 to 1516/Bang/2013 before furnishing the statement in accordance
with the provisions of sub-section (3) of Section
200."
The said sub-section clearly provides that interest would be payable from the
date on which such tax was deductible, i.e., the date when payment was made by
the assessee to the Recipient; till the date on which such tax was actually
paid, i.e., tax was deposited by the Recipient.
27\. The provision for tax deduction at source is only a mechanism for
collection of tax by the payer, even though the liability to pay tax is that
of the Recipient. The provision for payment of interest under sub- section
(1A) of Section 201 of the Act is only of compensatory nature. It cannot be a
means to penalise the payer. The provision for payment of interest would arise
from the date when it ought to have been deducted i.e., from the date of
payment by the payer to the Recipient. The liability to pay interest would end
on the date when such tax has been deposited by the Recipient, either by way
of advance tax or along with the return of income. Interest, herein, being
compensatory in nature, cannot be thus charged for the period beyond the date
when such tax has already been deposited by the Recipient. If the Revenue is
permitted to charge interest even after the Recipient has deposited the tax,
the same would amount to undue enrichment of the Revenue, as even after
receiving the tax, it would continue to get interest on the amount which has
already been paid or deposited with it. As such, the liability of the assessee
herein would not be for payment of interest after the period of deposit of tax
by the Recipient.
87\. Our attention was also drawn to the judgment of the Special Bench of
Tribunal in the case of Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd., vs. Page - 86 IT(TP)A.1511
to 1516/Bang/2013 DCIT (30 SOT 374) Our attention was drawn to paras.14.1,
14.2, 17.1, 17.5, 17.10, 17.10 and 17.14. Further Our attention was also drawn
to the judgment passed by the Hon'ble AP High Court in the case of CIT vs.
Electronic Instruments Ltd. (371 ITR 314).
88\. On the basis of the judgments referred to above, it was submitted by the
AR for the assessee that initiation of proceedings commenced from the issue of
show cause notice dated 20/11/2012 for the assessment years 2007-08 and
2008-09. However, in light of law laid down by the aforesaid judgments, notice
should have been issued by the AO within 4 years from the end of the financial
year i.e. for the assessment year 2007-08, notice should have been issued by
the AO on or before 31/03/2011 and for the assessment year 2008-09 by
31/03/2012. As the notices were not issued by the AO before the said date and
were admittedly issued on 20/11/2012, initiation of proceedings by the AO was
beyond the period of limitation and therefore, the notice was barred by
limitation and therefore, proceedings initiated on the basis of the above said
notices were require to be dropped.
89\. Per contra, learned Standing Counsel has drawn our attention to the
provisions of section 201 as on the date of issuance of notice i.e.
20/11/2012. It was submitted that section 201(3) was available on the statute
book as on 20/11/2012 to the following effect:
Page - 87 IT(TP)A.1511 to 1516/Bang/2013 "201(3) No order shall be made under
sub-section (1) deeming a person to be an assessee in default for failure to
deduct the whole or any part of the tax from a person resident in India, at
any time after the expiry of--
(i) two years from the end of the financial year in which the statement is
filed in a case where the statement referred to in section 200 has been filed;
(ii) six years from the end of the financial year in which payment is made or
credit is given, in any other case :
Provided that such order for a financial year commencing on or before the 1st
day of April, 2007 may be passed at any time on or before the 31st day of
March, 2011."
90\. On the basis of the above, it was submitted that proceedings initiated by
the AO was within the period of limitation as it was commenced within 6 years
from the end of the financial year in which payment is made or credited as in
any other case. It was further submitted that though in the amended provision
mentioned hereinabove, the Legislature has only mentioned period of limitation
for initiation of proceedings u/s 201(3) against the resident in India but in
absence of any provision for limitation for initiation of proceedings u/s 201,
same period should be applicable for initiation of proceedings for non-
resident as well.
91\. For the purpose of above, it was submitted that the reasoning which was
given by courts/Tribunal referred by the assessee are not Page - 88
IT(TP)A.1511 to 1516/Bang/2013 available as all the judgments referred by the
learned counsel for the assessee were for the period prior to introduction of
amendment in section 201(1) of the Act. It was submitted that on the analogy
and reasoning given by the Special Bench in the case of Mahindra & Mahindra
(supra) in paras.14.2, 17.10 and 17.11 are no more available to the assessee
as the said reasoning were given by the Special Bench in the case of Mahendra
& Mahendra (supra) in the absence of limitation for initiation of proceedings
or passing of order u/s 201 of the Act as applicable on said date and
therefore, the Special Bench has applied the limitation as provided u/s
143(2), 149, 153, 154 and 263 to the proceedings under section 201 of the Act.
The special bench after detailed examination in para.14.2, in the case
Mahindra & Mahindra has came to the conclusion that, as there is no limitation
provided under un-amended section 201, therefore, period of 4 years will be
the reasonable period for initiation of proceedings. Further it was held that
the period of completion of proceedings shall be one year form the end of the
relevant financial year.
92\. On the basis of above it was submitted by the learned Standing Counsel
that the reasoning as given by the Special Bench, Hon'ble jurisdictional High
Court as well as by other High Courts is no more available for initiation of
proceedings against non-resident for period of 4 years, in view of the fact
that same logic and reasoning is required to be followed by the Tribunal by
laying down the reasonable period of limitation for initiation of proceedings
against non-resident Page - 89 IT(TP)A.1511 to 1516/Bang/2013 entity. In the
written submissions it was submitted by the DR as under:
> "1. Section 201(3) of the Act has been amended by providing Limitation only
> in respect of payments made to the resident in India. In the Circular
> Explaining the Finance Act, it has been specifically referred that the
> payments made to the nonresidents, no limitation is applicable. In view of
> the specific provision providing Limitation only to the payments made to the
> resident in India and not providing any limitation to the payments made t o
> t h e n o n - r e s i d e n t , n o l i m i t a t i o n c a n b e prescribed
> or read into the section.
> 2) Without prejudice to the above contention if the contention of the
> assessee is to be accepted that in the absence of any limitation being
> provided under the Act, reasonable time limit has to be read into the
> section as held by various high courts in the case of NHK Japan, Bharath
> Hotels, the limitation provided for payments to residents has to be a p p
> lied (six y ea rs). Oth erwise it a mo u n t to discrimination between the
> payments made to the resident and the non-resident.
3)Insofar as the judgements relied on by the assessee, all the judgements were
rendered in respect of the orders passed prior to amendment to section 201(3)
of the Act and period of four years has been arrived at on the analogy of
various other provisions under the Act. Even in the absence of any limitation
being provided under section 201(3) of the Act for payments to the
nonresident's, even certain limitation is to be provided, applying the same
analogy as held by the various courts in the judgements relied on by the
assessee, period of six years has to be read/considered in view of the
legislative interference by introduction of section 201(3) of the Act. In the
Page - 90 IT(TP)A.1511 to 1516/Bang/2013 absence of such an analogy and any
other Limitation other than period of six years would amount to discrimination
in the limitation between the payment to resident and non-resident.
4) The assessee has relied on the judgement of the Delhi High Court in the
case of Bharathi Hotels Ltd (2016) 76 taxman.com 256 (Delhi) to contend that
even after introduction of section 201(3) of the Act and in the absence of any
limitation provided by the Act in respect of payments to the nonresident's,
the reasonable limitation has to be read into. With great respect, the Delhi
High Court has not provided any limitation with respect to payments to non-
resident's. Without prejudice to the above contention even if the contention
of the assessee that in the absence of any limitation, reasonable time limit
has to be read into the section is to be accepted, applying the same analogy
as held by the various courts relied upon by the assessee and considered by
the Delhi High Court, the period of six years provided by the statute to the
payments ma1e to resident in India under section 201(3) of the Act would be
equally applicable to the payments made to the nonresident's. If any
limitation other than six years is read into the section in respect of
payments to non-resident, it would amount to discrimination among the payments
to residents and the nonresident.
93\. In rebuttal, learned counsel for the assessee submitted that prior to
amendment, there was no statutory period for initiation of proceedings against
the non-resident. Once the amendment came into force for resident only, it
should not implicitly apply to non-resident as it was only restricted to
resident. It was submitted that principle of Page - 91 IT(TP)A.1511 to
1516/Bang/2013 literal interpretation is required to be invoked for the
purpose of interpreting this kind of provisions and this tribunal cannot
supply the word which is not intended to be supplied by the legislature.
Lastly, our attention was drawn to the judgment passed by the Hon'ble Delhi
High Court in the case of Bharti Airtel vs. Union of India (76 taxman.com.256)
and special attention was drawn to paras.11,12, 13, 14 & 17\.
94\. We heard rival submissions and perused material on record available. In
our view, before we deal with issue of limitation, it would be relevant to
reproduce the reasoning given by the Special Bench in the case of Mahindra &
Mahindra (supra) which is as under:
> 14.2 After considering the rival submissions in the light of the material
> placed before us and the precedents relied upon it is obvious that sub-
> sections (1) and (1A) of section 201 do not prescribe any time limit for the
> initiation of the proceedings or the passing of the order. We find that for
> the most of the actions under the Act, the particular time limit has been
> given for the commencement and completion of the proceedings. For example
> time limit for issuing of notice for the purposes of making assessment is
> laid down in section 143(2). Similarly time for issuing notice of
> reassessment has been set in section 149. Section 153 deals with the time
> provided for the completion of assessment and reassessments. Similarly time
> limit for rectification of order is given in section 154; for passing
> revising order under section 263 etc. etc. In such a scenario the question
> arises that if no time limit is provided, then can any time limit be
> artificially imported by the authorities. The ld. DR has contended that the
> Tribunal is not competent to lay down any time limit. If Page - 92
> IT(TP)A.1511 to 1516/Bang/2013 this contention is brought to the logical
> conclusion it will mean that the unlimited time will be available to the
> Departmental authorities at their sweet-will for taking action under this
> section. In our considered opinion this contention raised on behalf of the
> revenue is bereft of any force for the simple reason that certainty is the
> hallmark of any proceedings. It is beyond our comprehension that how, in the
> absence of any time limitation provided in the section, the action can be
> taken in indefinite period. It is wholly impermissible to argue that
> unlimited time limit be granted to the revenue for taking action under this
> section. The sword of taxing authorities cannot be allowed to hang, forever,
> over the head of the tax payers. If this proposition of the learned D.R. is
> accepted that will give license to the authorities to take action even after
> 30, 40 or 50 years. The canons of limitation are ordinarily provided
> expressly in the Act and in their absence, they are to be impliedly inferred
> by taking into consideration the scheme of the relevant provisions. The ld.
> DR has relied on some cases for suggesting that no time limit be laid down
> by the Tribunal for the purposes of passing order under section 201(1) or
> (1A). In our opinion before applying the ratio of any judgment, it is
> imperative to look into text and the context in which it is rendered. It is
> equally important to bear in mind the relevant provision in the background
> of which such judgment was rendered.
It is not permissible to pick up a case from one enactment and insist for the
application of the ratiodecidendi of that case to an altogether different
legislation, which has no resemblance with the former. The Hon'ble Rajasthan
High Court in Arihant Tiles & Marbles (P.) Ltd. v. ITO [2007] 295 ITR 148/166
Taxman 274 has held that the interpretation of any expression used in the
context of one statute is not be automatically imported while interpreting
similar expression in another statute. Similar view has been earlier expressed
by the Hon'ble Supreme Court Page - 93 IT(TP)A.1511 to 1516/Bang/2013 in CIT
v. Venkateswara Hatcheries (P.) Ltd. [1999] 237 ITR 174/103 Taxman 503.
95\. In para.14.2 (supra in Mahindra and Mahindra) it has been held by the
Special Bench that in sub-section (1) and (1A) of section 201, no limit for
initiation of proceeding or passing of the order is prescribed. Thereafter,
the Special Bench noticed the period of limitation provided for issuance of
notice u/s 143(2), 149, 153, 154, 263 and thereafter it was held that
certainty in taxing provision is hall- mark of any proceeding and it was
noticed that "it is beyond our apprehension that how in absence of time limit
provided in the section, action can be taken in indefinite period. It is
impermissible to argue that no time limit be granted to revenue."
96\. Thus it is clear from reading of the abovementioned paragraph that the
logic and reasoning given by the Special Bench for coming to reasonable period
of 4 years was based on analysis of the provisions viz., 143, 147, 148, 149
and 153 and absence of time limit u/s 201(1) of the Act. In our view, there is
a change in the position after passing of judgment by the Special Bench as the
section 201 has been amended by the legislature and now specific provision is
incorporated by the Legislature to deal with limitation or initiation of
proceedings u/s 201 of the Act in the case of resident , however no period of
limitation is provided in the case of non-resident.
97\. Recently Allahabad high court in the matter of Mass Awash (P.) Ltd.
[2017] 83 taxmann.com 306 (Allahabad) had occasion to Page - 94 IT(TP)A.1511
to 1516/Bang/2013 deal with all judgments referred before us and thereafter it
was held as under "71. In the entirety of the discussion, we find it difficult
to hold that period consumed by Revenue in prosecuting matter against main
payee would have resulted in accrual of a right upon Assessee so as to deprive
Revenue from proceeding under Section 201(1) and 201(1A), though, admittedly,
Assessee-petitioner has committed default by not complying Section 195 by non-
deduction of TDS on the amount paid to Smt. Nidhi Raman. Defence of petitioner
that it was misrepresented by seller by not disclosing by any of them that she
was an N.R.I. would equally be available to Revenue also for explaining delay
and also their bonafide is fortified that they make all possible efforts to
recover entire amount of tax from person liable to pay tax and as a last
resort they have sought to exercise power under Section 201(1) and 201(1A)
against Assessee.
72\. The view taken by Delhi High Court that period of limitation of four
years, as applicable for making Assessment under Section 147, should be made
applicable for exercising power under Section 201(1) and 201(1A), we find it
difficult to subscribe inasmuch as we do not impose a fixed time and prescribe
a period of limitation, which has not been prescribed by Legislature in its
wisdom. Such legislative action, by way of judicial precedent, in our view,
would not be appropriate exercise of judicial review under Article 226 of
Constitution. As we have already discussed above, even Supreme Court says that
if time period is not prescribed for exercise of power, a reasonable time
would depend upon the facts of each case and cannot be quantified or
prescribed like a period of limitation.
73\. In Uttam Namdeo Mahale (supra), the judgment delivered by Three Judge
Bench, Court has said as under:
Page - 95 IT(TP)A.1511 to 1516/Bang/2013 "Mr. Bhasme, learned counsel for the
appellant, contends that in the absence of fixation of the rule of limitation,
the power can be exercised within a reasonable time and in the absence of such
prescription of limitation, the power to enforce the order is vitiated by
error of law. He places reliance on the decisions in State of Gujarat v. Patil
Raghav Natha; Ram Chand v. Union of India and Mohd. Kavi Mohamad Amin v.
Fatmabai Ibrahim. We find no force in the contention. It is seen that the
order of rejectment against the applicant has become final. Section 21 of the
Mamlatdar's Court Act does not prescribe any limitation within which the order
needs to be executed. In the absence of any specific limitation provided there
under, necessary implication is that the general law of limitation provided in
the Limitation Act (Act 2 of 1963) stands excluded. The Division Bench,
therefore, has rightly held that no limitation has been prescribed and it can
be executed at any time, especially when the law of limitation for the purpose
of this appeal is not there. Where there is statutory rule operating in the
field, the implied power of exercise of the right within reasonable limitation
does not arise. The cited decisions deal with that area and bear no relevance
of the facts."
(Emphasis added)
74\. We also find that Bombay High Court has taken a different view in the
matter of prescribing limitation and Calcutta High Court has declined to
prescribe any such limitation.
75\. In our view, the dictum laid down by Apex Court in the cases referred
above is very clear. While exercising power of judicial review in the case
like present one, it would be appropriate to consider whether power has been
exercised by competent authority within a reasonable period and whether delay
is unjust, arbitrary, whimsical or it is for valid reasons. If Court finds
that delay in exercise of power is for valid and bonafide reasons, alleged
delayed exercise of power cannot be held invalid."
Page - 96 IT(TP)A.1511 to 1516/Bang/2013
98\. The contrary judgment of Hon'ble Delhi High Court in the matter of Bharti
Airtel Ltd v. Union of India [(2016) 76 taxmann.com 256] was relied upon by
the Ld. AR. The DR relied upon Bhura Exports Ltd [2011] 13 taxmann.com 162
(Calcutta) and Mass Awash (P.) Ltd. [2017] 83 taxmann.com 306 (Allahabad) In
our view the decision of the Special Bench and other judgments apply with
equal force in favour of both i.e resident as well as non-resident providing
period of limitation of four years from the end of the financial year for
initiation of proceedings on the analogy and principle mentioned in section
147, 148, 153 etc prior to amendment in law. However there are contrary
judgments in favour of the revenue post amendment which does not provide any
limitation for initiation of proceedings u/s.201 of the Act.
99\. In view thereof, there is conflict of judgments of various courts. One
set of judgment are in favour of the assessee and the other set of judgments
are in favour of the Revenue. There is no direct judgment after the amendment
of Section 201, by the jurisdictional High Court which deals with the issue of
initiation of proceedings under the amended provision of 201. In the absence
of any binding judgment by the Hon'ble jurisdictional High Court, we are bound
to adopt the same logic as upheld by the jurisdictional High Court, by
treating the resident and the non-resident at par after relying upon the
decision of Special Bench in the matter of Mahindra and Mahindra (supra), in
case relating to pre amendment assessment year. In our opinion, after Page -
97 IT(TP)A.1511 to 1516/Bang/2013 the amendment of law same logic and
limitation is required to be applied for non-resident well as resident thus
treating non-resident at par with resident. In other words, period of
imitation for initiation of proceedings for resident as well as non-resident
u/s 201 should be 6 years from the end of the financial year. Further the
payer is required to maintain books of account and deduct TDS for both
resident as well as non-resident. No Separate treatment had been envisaged
under the Act, for the payer paying to a non-resident.
100\. Further, the non-resident payee cannot be worse off than resident payee
under the Income Tax Act and under the provisions of DTAA. Law provides non-
discrimination of non- resident with resident and requires equal treatment of
non-resident with resident under the provisions of DTAA. It cannot be said
that a non resident would be given special and beneficial treatment in
comparison to the resident or treated unequally by providing unlimited time to
initiate proceedings under section 201 of the Act. In our opinion, the
Constitution of India provides equal treatment and equal protection of law
within the territory of India. If the law requires initiation of proceedings
within 6 years from the end of financial year for the resident, same treatment
is required to be given to the non-resident. For this proposition, we may rely
upon on the judgment of Hon'ble Supreme Court in Dr. Subramanian Swamy v.
Director, CBI [2014] 8 SCC 682 (SC) in para 22 .
101\. Keeping in mind the principles set out by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in
Dr. Subramanyian Swamy (supra), if we examine the scheme Page - 98
IT(TP)A.1511 to 1516/Bang/2013 of Section 201 Act, the resident of India
cannot be discriminated vis- à-vis. The non-resident under Income Tax Act and
similarly under DTAA non-resident cannot be discriminated viz-a-viz resident.
If we accept the argument of the Ld. AR that the limitation of 4 years, as
held provided by the Special Bench would continue to apply to non- resident
even after post amendment to section 201, in that eventuality, hostile
discrimination towards the resident-payee will creep in i.e., the limitation
for initiation under section 201 against the resident payee would be six years
and against the non-resident payee it would be four years. This is neither the
intention of the legislature nor the mandate of the Special Bench or the
judgment referred herein above. On the contrary, if we accept the argument of
the Ld. DR that there is no limitation for initiation of proceedings under
201, in view of Hon'ble Caltutta and Allahabad High Court judgments (supra),
if the payee is non-resident then, it will amount to discrimination against
the non- resident as the proceedings may be initiated against the resident
within four years and there is no limitation for initiation of proceedings
against the non-resident. Therefore, the arguments of both the assessee as
well as the Revenue cannot be accepted. If we accept the argument of one it
would tantamount to discriminating either the resident or the non-resident,
which is not permissible in the eyes of law.
102\. The assessee / payer in the eyes of law whether making payment to
resident or non-resident under the provisions of section Page - 99
IT(TP)A.1511 to 1516/Bang/2013 201, constitutes one class only. Accordingly,
the same period of limitation is required to be applied equally for payee i.e
Resident or non-resident, Law abhor vacuum and uncertainty.
103\. There is no classification given under section 201. Section 201(1) only
talks about person who is required to deduct any sum for the payment made.
Therefore, borrowing the same reasoning of the special bench, whereby it held
that the same period of limitation should be applied to resident as well as
non-resident, we are of the considered view that limitation for initiation of
proceedings for non- resident payee should be 6 years instead of no-
limitation.as is the limitation for resident-payee. In view of the above
ground No.12 in assessment year 2007-08 deserves to be dismissed and
accordingly we dismiss the same.
Ground no -1 3 - Without prejudice to the argument that the payments made by
the Appellant to Google Ireland are not in the nature of Royalty as per
Article 12 of India Ireland DTAA, the Learned Assessing Officer ("AO") /
Learned Commissioner of Income-Tax (Appeals) erred in holding that the
Appellant is liable to withhold tax on amounts payable to Google Ireland
disregarding that 'Royalty' income in the hands of non-resident is taxable
only on receipt basis under the said Article 12 of India-Ireland DTAA.
104\. In this regard AO held that under Section 9(1)(vi) of the Act, royalty
is charged on accrual basis and the actual receipt of the same by the
recipient is immaterial for the purpose of deduction of taxes. AO relied upon
following judgments Trishla Jain vs ITO (2009) 310 Page - 100 IT(TP)A.1511 to
1516/Bang/2013 ITR 274 (PUNJAB & HARYANA), AEG KTIENGESSELSCHAFT v Inspecting
Assistant Commissioner 48 ITD 359, Allied Chemical Corporation v Inspecting
Assistant Commissioner 3 ITD 418 (Bombay) and Dana Corporation USA v Income
Tax Officer 28 ITD
185\. Further AO has support from Section 43(2) of the Act which define 'paid'
as (2) 'Paid" means actually paid or incurred according to the method of
accounting upon the basis of which the profits or gains are computed under the
head "Profits and gains of business or profession";
Accordingly, the AO has concluded that the meaning of the term "paid" includes
amount incurred i.e. where it becomes payable.
105\. On appeal to CIT(A), the first appellate authority has not agreed to the
submissions of the assessee and held that the amount payable by the Assessee
to Google Ireland is royalty under the provisions of the Act, without
adjudicating on the specific ground raised by the Appellant in this regard.
106\. Aggrieved by the order of the CIT(A) the Assessee has raised the
following submissions before us :
S u b mi s s i o n s o f t h e a s s e s s e e 1 0 7 . In this regard the Ld.
AR for the assessee has submitted that the amount payable by the Assessee is
not in the nature of 'royalty' Page - 101 IT(TP)A.1511 to 1516/Bang/2013 under
the Act and the India-Ireland DTAA. However, it was submitted that assuming
amount payable to Google Ireland is in the nature of 'royalty', then in terms
of Article 12 of the India-Ireland DTAA, income in the nature of royalty is
chargeable to tax in the hands of the nonresident only on receipt basis.
108\. Our attention is drawn to Article 12 of the India-Ireland DTAA:
> "1. Royalties or fees for technical services arising in a Contracting State
> and paid to a resident of the other Contracting State may be taxed in that
> other State.
> 2\. However, such royalties or fees for technical services may also be taxed
> in the Contracting State in which they arise, and according to the laws of
> that State...
3\. (a) The term "royalties" as used in this Article means payments of any
kind received as a consideration for the use of or the right to use, any
copyright of literary, artistic or scientific work including cinematograph
films or films or tapes for radio or television broadcasting any patent, trade
mark, design or model plan, secret formula or process or for the use of or the
right to use industrial, commercial or scientific equipment, other than an
aircraft or for information concerning industrial, commercial or scientific
experience."
109\. Accordingly it was submitted so far as taxability of Royalty is
concerned, twin conditions of "arising in India" as also the "payment" are to
be satisfied. The Ld. AR relies upon the order passed by the Mumbai ITAT in
National Organic Chemical Industries Lid (96 TTJ 765).
Page - 102 IT(TP)A.1511 to 1516/Bang/2013
110\. Further, it was also submitted the term 'royalty' in Article 12(3a) of
the India-Ireland DTAA is defined to mean payment of any kind received as a
consideration for the use or right to use copyright, patent, trademark, etc. A
plain reading of the above phrase means that an amount can be characterized as
royalty under the DTAA only on payment and not merely on accrual. In other
words, until the amount is paid, the amount accrued or due cannot partake the
character of royalty.
111\. If Article 12(1) is read in juxtaposition with Article 12(3)(a) which
defines royalty, in the context of India as source country, provision would
read as under:
> "Royalties (being payment of any kind received as a consideration for the
> use of IPR ......) arising in India and paid to resident of Ireland may be
> taxed in India."
112\. Even if one were to state that the point of taxation is the "arising" of
the income in India, the same can be finally taxed only on the basis of the
amount "paid" to the nonresident. The Ld. AR relied upon Hon'ble Delhi
Tribunal the case of Pizza Hut International LLC (33 CCH 95). Hence, mere
"accrual" without "payment" would not crystallize the charge under the DTAA
irrespective of the position under the Act and accordingly Royalty should not
be taxable in India.
Page - 103 IT(TP)A.1511 to 1516/Bang/2013
113\. The Ld. AR sought to distinguish the finding of AO which was based on
ruling of Supreme Court in the case of Standard Triumph Motors Co. Ltd. It was
submitted the judgment is distinguishable.
a. The decision does not take into account the provisions of the DTAA as
probably none existed at that time;
b. CSC Technology Singapore Pte Ltd Vs ADI, New Delhi 12012-TII-35-ITAT-DEL-
INTLJ, c. The decision of the Hon'ble Delhi ITAT in the case of Pizza Hut
International LLC (supra) factors the observations of the Hon'ble Supreme
Court in the case of Standard Triumph Motors while holding that the royalty
can be considered as taxable in the hands of the recipient on a receipt basis.
114\. Further, reliance is also placed on a recent decision of the Hon'ble
Bombay High Court ruling in the case of Siemens Aktiengesellschaft ITA No. 124
of 2010. The Hon'ble High Court was dealing with Article 12 of India Germany
DTAA and held that the assessment of Royalty or fees for technical services
should be made in the year in which the amounts are "received" and not
otherwise.
115\. The Ld. AR submits in the case of Booz. Allen & Hamilton (India) Ltd
(ITA No. 4505/Mum/2003) is also relevant in the present context. The Hon'ble
ITAT, relying on the case of Siemens Aktiengesellschaft (supra) ,and keeping
in view the language employed in DTAA, held that the amounts receivable by the
non- resident from its agent in India could not be brought to tax in India
Page - 104 IT(TP)A.1511 to 1516/Bang/2013 during the year of credit since the
same had not been paid by the agent to the said entities.
116\. The Ld. AR further relies upon Johnson & Johnson (ITA No. 7865/Mum/2010)
and CSC Technology Singapore Pte Ltd (supra).
117\. The Ld. AR submitted that the Liability to withhold taxes in the hands
of the payer on payment basis and not on accrual basis. For that purposes our
attention was drawn to Section 195(1) to the following effect :
> "Any person responsible for paying to a non-resident, not being a company,
> or to a foreign company, any interest (not being interest under referred to
> in section 194LB or section 194LC) or section 194LD or any sum chargeable
> under the provisions of this Act (not being income chargeable under the head
> "Salaries') shall, at the time of credit of such income to the account of
> the payee or at the time of payment thereof in cash or by the issue of a
> cheque or draft or by any other mode, whichever is earlier, deduct income-
> tax thereon at the rate in force:"
118\. It is submitted that for the purpose of determining whether an amount is
chargeable to tax in the hands of a non-resident, the provisions of the
relevant DTAA would also need to be factored. It is submitted that the charge
under the DTAA on royalty is triggered only when the amount is paid and not
when the amount is accrued or even due. Accordingly, royalty receivable by
Google Ireland would be chargeable to tax under the India - Ireland DTAA only
when actually received and accordingly, the liability to withhold Page - 105
IT(TP)A.1511 to 1516/Bang/2013 under section 195 would arise only when the sum
becomes chargeable in the hands of Google Ireland i.e. when the amount is
paid. The Ld. AR relied upon the order of the Tribunal passed in the case of
Saira Asia Interiors Pvt Ltd (ITA No.673/Ahd/2014). The relevant extracts of
the order are reproduced below your kind perusal:
> "5. It is only elementary that the tax deduction source liability under
> Section 195 is a vicarious liability in the sense that its survival in the
> hands of tax-deductor is wholly dependent on existence of tax liability in
> the hands of recipient of income. When a credit afforded by, or a payment
> made by, an Indian resident, to a non-resident, does not trigger the
> taxability of that income in the hands of recipient, the tax deduction
> liability does not come into play at all. This scheme of the Act is implicit
> from the wordings of Section 195 (1) which state that "Any person
> responsible for paying to a nonresident, not being a company, or to a
> foreign company, any interest (not being interest on securities) or any
> other sum chargeable under the provisions of this Act (not being income
> chargeable under the head "Salaries") shall, at the time of credit of such
> income to the account of the payee or at the time of payment thereof in cash
> or by the issue of a cheque or draft or by any other mode, whichever is
> earlier, deduct income-tax thereon at the rates in force" (Emphasis, by
> underling supplied by us). When income embedded in a payment is not taxable
> under the Income Tax Act, 1961, the tax withholding liability does not get
> triggered at all.
10\. We may also a deal yet another argument in favour of the stand of the
revenue to the effect that if tax liability of the non-resident is to computed
on the basis of domestic law anyway, which permits taxation of royalties at
the Page - 106 IT(TP)A.1511 to 1516/Bang/2013 point of accrual, the tax
withholding should have taken place at the point of time when royalties
accrued i.e. when the account of the non-resident was credited. However, we
are unable to see any legal merits in this plea because what is material is
the tax liability of income embedded in the related payment as at the point of
time when event triggering tax withholding liability takes place, i.e.
crediting the amount or paying the amount. When the income embedded in the
payment is not liable to be taxed at the point of time when account of the
non-resident was credited, in view of the fact that, under the related DTAA,
tax liability can only arise at the point of a subsequent event i.e. payment.
When income embedded in the payment is not taxable at that point of time of
crediting the amount, there cannot be any occasion for deduction of
withholding the tax on such income. It is only at the point of time when
payment takes place, that the income embedded in payment becomes taxable under
the DTAA as also under the domestic law, but then rate of tax prescribed in
domestic law being lower, vis-à-vis the rate prescribed in the domestic law,
the assessee has the option of adopting the lower rate under the domestic
law."
119\. Therefore, it was submitted withholding liability in the hands of the
Appellant would arise only on payments made and not on the amounts payable to
Google Ireland. Therefore, as section 195 of the Act casts an obligation on
the payer to withhold tax, only when the same is chargeable to tax in India,
withholding of tax, if any, would be required only at the time of actual
remittance and not on the credit in the books of accounts. Hence in the
instant case, there is no requirement for withholding of tax in the subject
years as the amounts remained unpaid during the years under consideration i.e.
up to 31 March 2012.
Page - 107 IT(TP)A.1511 to 1516/Bang/2013
120\. The Ld. DR also argued that when the withholding tax liability in the
subject year is determined on payment basis under the DTAA, the Appellant may
claim in the year of receipt that the taxability in the hands of the payee
would arise on accrual basis and accordingly, liability to withhold would be
the year of accrual.
S u b mi s s i o n s o f t h e r e v e n u e
121\. The assessee by reading the language of definition of royalty in the
DTAA has contended that the amount paid to Google Ireland is taxable in the
year of receipt and hence no obligation to deduct tax at source on credit
basis.
121.1 The section 195(1) imposes obligation on the assessee to deduct tax at
source in respect of the payments made to non-resident if the sum is
chargeable under the provisions of the Act. It is further held by various
Supreme Court in the case of GE India and Ellie Lilly that the provisions of
section 195 has to be read along with charging provisions i.e. section 4, 5,9
and 90 of the Act. On conjoint reading of the above provisions, it is clear
that the amounts paid by the assessee to Google Ireland are chargeable under
the Act on accrual basis. Hence contention of the assessee that amount is
chargeable in the hands of the Google Ireland on receipt basis is misplaced.
Page - 108 IT(TP)A.1511 to 1516/Bang/2013 121.2 If the language of definition
of royalty under the DTAA is read Article 12(3)(a) with Ireland, the wordings
"the term "royalties" as used in this article means payment of any kind
received as consideration for the use-------" would clearly and unambiguously
makes it clear that payment received as consideration for use would alone be
considered as royalty. The words "payments of any kind received as a
consideration for the use of' has to be read together and it would only mean
the classification of the income and not the method of accounting. Hence the
contention of the assessee is misplaced.
121.3 It is submitted that the assessee is providing IT services and IT
enabled services to Google Ireland in addition to marketing and distribution
services for the adverts program. The assessee will be receiving amounts from
IT services and IT enabled services from Google Ireland. The assessee will pay
G o o g l e I r e l a n d i n v i e w o f m a r k e t i n g a n d distribution
services for Adword program. It is undisputed fact that the assessee is
wholly-owned s u b s i d i a r y o f G o o g l e . I n v i e w o f t h e c l o
s e connection between the Google India and the Google Ireland, the payments
to be received by the assessee provides IT servics and IT enabled services can
be adjusted towards payment towards marketing and distribution services for
Adword program. The fact that the assessee has not reflected the amounts paid
to Google Ireland in the P&L account would further justify the above aspect.
Page - 109 IT(TP)A.1511 to 1516/Bang/2013 121.4 In the above context if the
language employed in article 12 (3) (a) of the DTAA specifically with the
words "means payment of any kind received" would mean the receipt of amount by
virtue of adjustments/set off in the books of accounts of the a s s e s s e e
. F u r t h e r " p a y me n t o f a n y k i n d received" has to be read as
any mode of payment either by book adjustment/ credit or actual payment. Any
other meaning would read the language redundant in view of the provisions of
section 4, 5, 9, 90 and 195 of the Act.
121.5 It is further submitted that the DTAA does not determine the method of
accounting and the year of taxability in respect of parties to the agreement.
What DTAA provides for is the extent of taxability of income and the
percentage of the tax on the income liable for tax and the distribution of tax
among the countries party to the DTAA. Hence the language employed in defining
the meaning of royalty cannot be read to mean the method of accounting. The
DTAA does not deal with the year of taxability or the method of accounting of
either parties.
121.6 It is further submitted that only section which has imposed obligation
on the assessee is section 195(1) of the Act. The section obligates the
assessee to deduct tax at source in respect of the income chargeable under the
Act. The section does not empower the payer to examine the applicability of
the DTAA to the payee. Language of section 9 0 (2 ) o f th e Act b e yo n d d
oub t is clear an d unambiguous that option to exercise the benefit of either
the Act Page - 110 IT(TP)A.1511 to 1516/Bang/2013 or the DTAA is conferred on
the nonresident. Hence at the stage of payment without there being any
indication by the recipient, the payer cannot step into the shoes of recipient
to exercise the option provided under section 90(2) and claim the benefit of
DTAA.
121.7 It is further submitted that the application of DTAA is not automatic
and it is the specific exercise of option by the recipient subject to
fulfillment of certain conditions as contemplated under the DTAA. In the
absence of any material or enquiry by the assessee, the assessee cannot jump t
o t h e c o n c l u s i o n t h a t t h e a m o u n t i s n o t chargeable
under the DTAA.
121.8 The contention of the assessee that receipt in the hands of Google
Ireland is liable to be taxed on cash basis is completely baseless for the
reason that the Google Ireland itself has filed return of income for the
Assessment Year 2007-08 and 2008-09 and has admitted the Mercantile system of
accounting being followed. Copies enclosed for ready reference and
consideration.
121.9 The coordinate bench of this Hon'ble Tribunal in the case of Vodafone
South Ltd at para-36, 37 has examined the scope of applicability of the DTAA
and has been held that applicability of the DTAA is not automatic. It is
further held by this Hon'ble Tribunal that the only onus upon the assessee is
to determine that the payments made by it did do not involve the element of
income chargeable under the Act and the provisions of DTAA would not
automatically attract in defence of the payer.
Page - 111 IT(TP)A.1511 to 1516/Bang/2013 12 1.10 . In v iew o f th e d
ecision of this Hon'b le Tribunal in the case of Vodafone South Ltd, and the
law laid down by the Supreme Court in the case of GE India explaining the
scope of section 1 9 5 ( 1 ) and applicability of other charging provisions
like section 4, 5, 9 and 90 (2) of the Act, what is to be considered at the
time of payment by the assessee is only regarding the chargeability u n d e r
t h e A c t a n d t h e a s s e s s e e c a n n o t b e permitted to take
shelter under the DTAA as the benefit of DTAA is conferred only on the
nonresident recipient.
121.11. The various judgements relied on by the assessee in the case of
Siemens, Booz Allen and Saira Asia are not applicable to the present case.
Further the scope of section 90(2) of the Act and the effect of charging
provisions under section 4, 5 and 9 have not been examined. Further the above
judgements have not deal with the entitlement of the payer to claim protection
under section 90(2) of the Act. Particularly and as admitted by the non-
resident, the non-resident assessee is following Mercantile system of
accounting and hence the word "received" in the DTAA cannot be read to mean
the method of accounting. In contrary, the same has to read as classification
of income.
121.12. If the contention of the assessee is to be tested in the context of
the law laid down by the Supreme Court with respect to the scope of section
195(1) of the Act r.w.s 4, 5, 9 and 90(2) of the Act, if the assessee case is
accepted that liability to deduct tax at source Page - 112 IT(TP)A.1511 to
1516/Bang/2013 would arise in the year of payment as the same is taxable on
receipt basis in the hands of the non-resident, in the event of the non-
resident exercising option under section 90(2) of the Act to claim benefit of
the provisions of the Act, and specifically in view of the Mercantile system
of accounting being followed by the nonresident, if the non- resident claims
that the same is taxable on accrual basis under section 4, 5 and 9 of the Act,
read with the specific language of section 195(1) of the Act, the contention
is clearly illogical and contrary to the scheme of the Act. Undisputedly it is
settled position of law that whether to claim benefit under the Act or under
the DTAA is the option of the non-resident. In the absence of any authority in
favour of the assessee, t h e a s s e s s e e c a n n o t p r e s u m e t h a
t t h e n o n resident would be claiming benefit under the DTAA. If such was
the situation, the Act has provided mechanism for the non-resident to express
that under section 195 of the Act before the concerned assessing officer. In
the absence of any such exercise on behalf of the non-resident, the contention
of the assessee is baseless and liable to be rejected.
121.13. I f t h e t e r m s o f t h e p a y m e n t a s a g r e e d between
the parties is examined it is clear that on periodic intervals the amounts are
liable to be paid. In view of the above, the contention contrary that amount
is taxable in the hands of the nonresident on receipt basis is baseless.
Page - 113 IT(TP)A.1511 to 1516/Bang/2013 121.14. The ld Counsel for revenue
relid upon following judgments a Transmission corporation of AX Ltd & ANR v
Commissioner of Income-tax (239 ITR 587(SC)): b. GE India Technology Centre
(P) LTD. vs Commissioner of Income-tax & ANR (327 ITR 0456 (SC)) c.
Commissioner of Income-tax v Eli Lilly & Co. (India) (P.) Ltd 223 CTR (SC) 20
. d.
d. Vodafone South Ltd. v. Deputy Director of Income-tax (International
Taxation) (44 ITR(T) 330 (Bang ITAT) e. Palam Gas Service v. CIT:
Rebuttal against the submissions of the DR
122\. Ld AR that Section 4(1) is a charging provision and it lays down that
the total income of the assessee should be taxed in the relevant assessment at
the rates in force. The term 'total income' is defined in Section 5 to include
all income which accrues or arises or deemed to accrue or arise or is received
or deemed to be received. However, application of this provision is subject to
other provisions of this Act including Section 90(2) of the Act. Section 90(2)
provides that the provisions of the Act may be applied to the extent
beneficial to the Assessee. Accordingly, for the purpose of applying Section
195(1), the 'sum chargeable' under section 4 would need to be determined
having regard to the provisions of the relevant DTAA.
122.1 It was submitted by Ld AR that DR reliance on the decisions of the
Hon'ble Supreme Court in the cases of Transmission Page - 114 IT(TP)A.1511 to
1516/Bang/2013 Corporation of A.P Ltd (supra) and GE India Technologies (P)
Ltd (supra) while submitting that the provisions of DTAA cannot be applied by
the payer while determining the amounts chargeable to tax in India is
incorrect. Ld AR submitted that applicability Section 195 of the Act may be
evaluated in three different cases as illustrated below:
> (i) Where the total of the sum paid to non-resident is chargeable to tax in
> India
> (ii) Where part of the sum paid to non-resident is chargeable to tax in
> India
> (iii)Where the total sum paid to non-resident is not chargeable to tax in
> India 122.2. Ld AR submitted that the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of
> Transmission Corporation (supra) has only dealt with the first two
> scenarios, and has not dealt with the third scenario i.e "Where the total
> sum paid to non-resident is not chargeable to tax in India"
122.3. Further Ld AR submitted that in the case of GE India Technologies (P)
Ltd (supra) has held that the provisions of Section 195 are required be read
with the provisions of Section 4, 5, 9, and 90(2). The Hon'ble court had held
as under :
> "While deciding the scope of s. 195(2) it is important to note that the tax
> which is required to be deducted at source is deductible only out of the
> chargeable sum. This is the underlying principle of s. 195. Hence, apart
> from s. 9(1), ss.4, 5, 9, 90, 91 as well as the provisions of DTAA are also
> relevant, while applying TDS provisions"
> Page - 115 IT(TP)A.1511 to 1516/Bang/2013 122.4. Further Ld AR submitted
> that the case of Vodafone South (supra) is not applicable automatically. As
> per AR in the case of Vodafone South (Supra) has not factored the principle
> laid down by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of GE India Technologies
> (P) Ltd (supra).Further Ld AR submitted that decision of the Supreme Court
> in Palam Gas is in a completely different context and cannot be relied on to
> submit that 'received' should be interpreted as 'receivable'.
122.5. Ld AR submitted that the AO proposed to apply the India - Ireland DTAA
to determine the rate of withholding and has not disputed on the applicability
of the treaty on this issue.
Discussion and Finding :
123\. As per service agreement dated dt.01.04.2014, payment is required to be
made by the GIL with 90 days after it receipt the invoice from the Assessee :
Payment :
4.1 As sale compensation for the performance of the services, Google Ireland,
or any of the affiliates, on behalf of Google Ireland, will pay Google India
an amount calculated as specified in Exhibit A hereto ("Service Fees"). Google
India will invoice Google Ireland on a periodic basis for the services Fee due
with respect to services performed. Each invoice shall be accompanied by a
report providing an accounting of all services provided by Google India during
the payment period; such all information reasonably necessary for computation
and / or confirmation of the payments due to Google India for such Page - 116
IT(TP)A.1511 to 1516/Bang/2013 period. Google Ireland will pay each such
invoice no later than ninety (90) days after its receipt. All payments due
under this Agreement shall be paid in accordance with policies established by
Google Ireland from time to time.
123.1. Similarly as per agreement date 12.12.2005. As per clause (4), payments
received and taxes are required to be made in the following manner:
123.2. Similarly in Exhibit A ( payment terms and conditions ) it is provided
as under :
> 1\. Distributor shall pay fees for the distribution right to Google an
> amount equal to the excess of :
> (A) Revenue earned by Distributor and recognized in accordance with
> accounting standard in the books of account of Distributor pursuant to this
> Agreement. (B) (i) Expenses incurred under and recorded on the books of
> account of Distributor in pursuant to this Agreement; and
> (ii) The Specified Percentage of Expenses.
XXXX Page - 117 IT(TP)A.1511 to 1516/Bang/2013
6\. Payment of fees :
6.1 Distributor shall make payments at mutually agreed intervals during the
year and make the final trued-up payment on the basis of duly audited accounts
to Google.
6.2 Payments by Distributor to Google shall be in the currency specified by
Google.
6.3 Documentation: Google shall provide such documentation as may be required
by distributor to evidence the fees for its records, compliances and audit.
6.4. All fees and payments may be subject to Indian tax laws or tax rules
defined under various tax laws or under specific DTAAs (Double Taxation
Avoidance Agreements) as may be applicable.
123.3. From the conjoint reading of the above two provisions it is abundantly
clear that the distribution fees (Royalty) is payable during the year and up
to final trued-up on the basis of the duly audited accounts of Google. Even as
per clause 4 of the Service agreement, the Google Ireland will pay the
invoices raised by Google India (assessee) within 90 days of receipt of
invoice. On the basis of the above, there is no doubt that the payment is due
and payable by the assessee to GIL within the year it became due. The same
principle is applicable for distribution fees (royalty) as well as for
services rendered by the assessee to GIL. The assessee, in its books of
account has debited the amount of Rs.1198261982/- for AY 2008-09 towards the
fees for distribution services to GIL.
Page - 118 IT(TP)A.1511 to 1516/Bang/2013 123.4. As per section 195, there is
an obligation on the part of the payer to deduct the TDS, in case the assessee
is making payment to a non-resident. The argument that the payment made by the
assessee to GIL is not being the sum chargeable under the provisions of the
Act, is not available for the payer to be raised in the present proceedings.
The necessary safe-guards are provided by the Act in the form of Section
195(2) which clearly provides that in case the assessee is having any doubt
about the chargeability to tax of the payment, then the assessee may make an
application to the AO for the purpose of determining whether the sum is
chargeable to tax or not and if yes, on what proportion.
123.5. In the present case, no such application is made u/s.195(2) to the AO.
The assessee on its own, without having knowledge, information and privy to
the accounting standard and accounting practice of GIL, has treated the said
payment as a business profit of GIL in its books of account. The uniform
policy is required to be adopted for deduction of taxes at source in case, by
the person responsible for paying amount to a non-resident. There is no caveat
or condition laid by the Act on the person responsible for paying to non-
Page - 119 IT(TP)A.1511 to 1516/Bang/2013 resident. In our view, whether it is
business profit or royalty, in both the circumstances, so far as the assessee
is concerned, the assessee is duty-bound to deduct the TDS unless there is an
adjudication by the AO to the contrary u/s.195(2).
123.6 The argument of the Ld. AR that under the provisions of Indo-Ireland
DTAA, the royalty is chargeable to tax in the hands of the non-resident on
receipt basis needs to be rejected, as the benefit of DTAA, is only available
to non-resident and not to the resident payer.
Moreover, the assessee cannot claim that the royalty is chargeable to tax in
the hands of the non-resident on receipt basis as the assessee has no access
to the accounting method followed by GIL.
123.7 The Ld. Standing Counsel for the Revenue had filed the copy of the
return of income for AY 2008-09 where the GIL had mentioned against the column
- Method of accounting employed in the previous year - "Merc" (Mercantile).
For the ready reference we are herewith reproducing the first page and sixth
page of ITR 6 of AY 2008-09.
Page - 120 IT(TP)A.1511 to 1516/Bang/2013 Page - 121 IT(TP)A.1511 to
1516/Bang/2013 127.8 Thus it is clear that GIL was following the mercantile
method of accounting and not the cash method of accounting. As per the
mercantile method of accounting, the GIL should have shown the Page - 122
IT(TP)A.1511 to 1516/Bang/2013 distribution fees (royalty) on accrual basis
and not on receipt basis. Therefore the argument of chargeability of royalty
in the hands of non-resident (GIL), on receipt basis is required to be
rejected.
123.10 There are only two methods of accounting prevalent in the world, i.e.,
mercantile method and cash method. In mercantile method, the taxability is
done on accrual basis, whereas in cash method, the taxability is done on
receipt basis. In the present case, though it is not the concern of the
assessee as to which method is being following by the GIL yet, GIL as
mentioned herein above, is following the mercantile method of accounting,
therefore, the chargeability of tax would be in the year when it is accrued
and not in the year when it was received.
123.11. The argument of chargeability to tax in the hands of non- resident on
receipt basis, is also required to be rejected as the scope and ambit of DTAA
(Double Taxation Avoidance Agreement) as per section 90 of the Act is to grant
relief from double taxation, to promote mutual economic relations, trade and
investment, for exchange of information for prevention of evasion or avoidance
of income-tax chargeable under this Act or in other country, or for recovery
of income-tax under this Act or under corresponding laws. In the opinion of
Bench, the DTAA can only provide the characterization of the income, the
country where it is to be paid and at what rate the said income is to be
taxed. However, it is not within the scope of the Page - 123 IT(TP)A.1511 to
1516/Bang/2013 DTAA to provide when (i.e year of accrual or receipt), the
income is required to be charged.
123.12 In our view the literal rule of interpretation is not required to be
followed and instead thereof linga or lakshana principle has to be followed,
i.e., we have to see the intent and not go by the literal rule as pointed out
by Lord Denning in his book, 'The Discipline of Law". If we go by literal
meaning of DTAA, then unscrupoulous persons may misuse the provision and avoid
payment of taxes. To illustrate this, if A company is rendering services to B
company, and B company is supplying some technology to A company, then there
is a mutual obligation of paying and receiving the amount. It is possible for
both A and B either to keep separate accounts for both transactions or they
can indulge into adjustment of their accounts by debiting and crediting their
accounts without actual payment. In such a situation, there will not be any
occasion for B company to receive the actual payment from A company.
123.13 Further, the income arising on account of royalty payable by resident
or non-resident in respect of any right, property or information used or
services utilized for the purposes of business or profession shall become due
and payable as per the provisions of the IT Act, as well as under DTAA when
such information is used or service is utilized by the recipient. In the
present case, the distribution fees was credited as accrued by the assessee
after utilizing the benefit Page - 124 IT(TP)A.1511 to 1516/Bang/2013 under
the distribution agreement to the account of GIL, Therefore, the same is
chargeable to tax when it was credited to the account of GIL and the appellant
is duty-bound to deduct TDS at the time of crediting it to the account of GIL.
The appellant will not suffer any loss on this account if the payment is made
to the GIL after deducting the tax. In any case if the GIL proves that the
amount is not required to be taxed in India then the GIL can claim refund in
the assessment proceedings.
123.14. The assessee in the present case has used the information, patented
technology, etc., from GIL which in the opinion of the bench, is royalty and
therefore, as per the mandate of Article 12(2), the royalty is to be taxed in
the contracting state (India) in accordance with the laws of India. Clause (2)
of Article 12 of DTAA clearly provides as under :
12(2) : However, such royalties or fees for technical services may also be
taxed in the Contracting State in which they arise, and according to the laws
of that State....
Further the laws of India provide taxability of royalty on the basis of the
accrual (mercantile method) and not on receipt (cash basis). Therefore, once
field is occupied by clause 2 of Article 12, the royalty paid by the assessee
to GIL is taxable as per Indian law.
Page - 125 IT(TP)A.1511 to 1516/Bang/2013 123.15. In our view, the assessee
has used the information, patented technology, etc., from GIL which in the
opinion of the bench, is royalty and therefore, as per the mandate of Article
12(2), the royalty is to be taxed in the contracting state (India) in
accordance with the laws of India. Further the laws of India provide
taxability of royalty on the basis of the accrual (mercantile method) and not
on receipt (cash basis). In our view once the field is occupied by clause 2 of
Article 12, then the same is required to be applied and enforced.
123.16. The reliance placed by the Ld. AR on paragraphs 7 and 8 of the
decision of the coordinate bench in the matter of Pizza Hut International LLC
(supra) is to support its case, is out of place and is therefore required to
be rejected. For arriving at the conclusion that the royalty is taxable on
cash basis, the coordinate bench neither gone into the method of account nor
considered Article 12(2) of DTAA which provides that the royalty is taxable in
accordance with the laws of India (contracting state/ source country ) 123.17.
As admitted by the assessee during the course of argument as well as in the
written submissions that the assessee had applied for RBI permission only in
November, 2011. The following written submissions were made in this regard.
The distribution fee payable by the Appellant to Google Ireland for the period
December 2006 to June 2009 remained unpaid until FY 2011-12. The Appellant had
approached the Reserve Bank of India Page - 126 IT(TP)A.1511 to 1516/Bang/2013
through the Authorised Dealer bank in November 2011 requesting for approval to
remit the amounts to Google Ireland. Pursuant to the approval from the RBI on
12 May 2014, the Appellant has remitted the distribution fee pertaining to
aforementioned period in May 2014.
123.18. If we examine the conduct of the assessee it is clear that the
assessee has not sought the permission for the distribution fees to be paid to
its AE (GIL) for AY 2006-2009, upto Nov 2011.
123.19 Thus the intention of the assessee as well as of the GIL is clear and
conspicuous that they wanted to avoid the payment of taxes in India. That is
why, despite the duty of the assessee to deduct the tax at the time of payment
to GIL, no tax was deducted nor any permission was sought for paying the
amount. If the permission for paying the amount is taken immediately after
entering into agreement, then this argument of not making the payment as late
as May, 2014 would not have been available to the assessee. This is a clear
design to skip the liability by both the assessee as well as GIL by having
mutual understanding.
123.20 Therefore in our view the Ld. DR was right in his submission that the
assessee deliberately not sought permission for making the payment to GIL and
is taking chance to avoid taxes within the four corners of IT Act. The
judgment referred by the assessee in the case of Pizza Hut International LLC
(supra) and CSC Technology (supra), mentioned about the misuse and deliberate
Page - 127 IT(TP)A.1511 to 1516/Bang/2013 attempt to delay the payment of
taxes when the transaction is between the AE. In the case on hand conduct of
the two parties, which are associated enterprises (AEs) clearly show that both
are trying to misuse the provision of DTAA by structuring the transaction with
the intention to avoid payment of taxes. The same is not permissible in law.
The proviso is being abused by them as a device to defer the tax for any
length of time by mutual understanding of the parties, particularly when both
the parties are under an obligation to pay and receive the payment for the
services rendered and for distribution fees (royalty). Therefore, we have no
hesitation to hold that the judgment relied upon by the assessee is not
applicable to the facts and circumstances of the case, rather it supports the
case of the Revenue..
123.21 Ld AR had submitted that for the purpose of determining whether an
amount is chargeable to tax in the hands of a non-resident, the provisions of
the relevant DTAA would also need to be factored and royalty would triggered
only when the amount is paid and not when the amount is accrued or even due
accordingly, the liability to withhold under section 195 would arise only when
the sum becomes chargeable in the hands of Google Ireland i.e. when the amount
is paid. In support the ld AR relied upon the order of coordinate bench in the
matter of Saira Asia Interiors Pvt Ltd (ITA No.673/Ahd/2014) Referred herein
above.
123.22 In our view the finding recorded by the coordinate bench was on the
facts before it, however said order is not applicable to the present set of
Page - 128 IT(TP)A.1511 to 1516/Bang/2013 facts and is distinguishable for
various reasons including the following reasons : as there is no mechanism
available with the revenue to know whether the actual amount was paid or
credited in the hand of Google Ireland or not in the Assessment years under
consideration or not or even before the lapse of time limit to deduct and
deposit the TAX , Secondly the Appellant have not sought permission for
remittance till Nov 2011Though the agreement was entered on 12.12.2005,
thirdly present case is a case of collusion between the payer and payee .
Further when Google Ireland itself is following the mercantile method of
accounting then there is no occasion to treat the cash method of accounting
and concluding that the Royalty would trigger only on actual payment of amount
lastly the royalty paid to Google Ireland is taxable as per Income Tax Act ,
which provides for maintaining the accounts as per mercantile method as per
section 145 of Income Tax. Further the coordinate bench had not followed the
binding judgment of Hon'ble Supreme court in the matter of Transmission
Corporation of AP (Supra).
123.23 The contention of the Ld. AR that the judgment passed by the Hon'ble
Apex Court in the case of Transmission Corporation of AP (Supra) is applicable
to the facts is not correct. In fact, Section 195 deals with a situation where
any person is making the payment or part of the payment, to a non-resident
which is chargeable to tax under the provision of the Act. In case any person
responsible for making the payment is having any doubt about chargeability to
tax under the Page - 129 IT(TP)A.1511 to 1516/Bang/2013 provisions of the Act,
then an application is to be made u/s.195(2) of the Act. There was no occasion
for the Hon'ble Supreme Court to deal with the argument that the sum paid to
non-resident is not chargeable to tax in India. In our view, once the Hon'ble
Supreme Court has dealt and decided the issue of payment by any person to a
non-resident for a sum chargeable to tax in India, the negative also stood
automatically adjudicated by the Hon'ble court. As held hereinabove, the
question of chargeability of the sum paid by the assessee to the GIL would
appropriately be decided in the proceedings of GIL and the assessee cannot
shirk from its duty to deduct the tax at the time of making the payment. If
Appellant was having any doubt about chargeability then the assessee should
have filed an application u/s.195(2).Once the Hon'ble Supreme Court has held
that the person responsible to deduct the tax at source on the payment to a
non- resident, which is chargeable to tax in India, then there is no scope for
further interference.
124 The Ld. AR contradicted the submissions of theLd. DR whereby it was
submitted by him that section 195 the provisions of 4, 5, 9 and 90 (2) and not
with the provisions of the DTAA by referring to following paragraph in the
matter of GE India Technology Centre P. Ltd (supra).
> "While deciding the scope of s. 195(2) it is important to note that the tax
> which is required to be deducted at source is deductible only out of the
> chargeable sum. This is the underlying principle of s. 195. Hence, apart
> from s. 9(1), ss.4, 5, 9, 90, 91 as Page - 130 IT(TP)A.1511 to
> 1516/Bang/2013 well as the provisions of DTAA are also relevant, while
> applying TDS provisions"
125 In our opinion, the scope and ambit of Section 195(2) is clear and
unambiguous, which mandates the AO to decide whether any payment( Royalty )
paid by the appellant to GIL is chargeable to Tax on cash / receipt basis or
not. However, to trigger 195(2), the payer (assessee) was duty-bound to make
an application with the AO. Unless an application is made to the AO, there
would not be any occasion for him to determine the chargeability of payment of
royalty to tax by referring to DTAA or under the ACT. Therefore, the finding
given by the Hon'ble Supreme Court GE India Technology Centre P. Ltd (supra)
does not come to the rescue of the assessee. The applicability of DTAA cannot
be suo-moto be determined by AO without there being any application under
section 195( 2) of the Act for the purposes of deducting the Tax at source.
The Coordinate bench in the matter of Vodafone South Ltd. [2015] 53
taxmann.com 441 (Bangalore - Trib.) after referring and dealing GE India
Technology Centre P. Ltd (supra) held as under :
> 36\. The next peripheral issue is, can the payer claim full protection of
> DTAA as is available to the payee in respect to the payments payee had
> received. The DTAAs are not more than the allocation of the taxes, they do
> not provide any other mode, how the taxes are to be collected whether by
> advance deduction etc. This is an area of the domestic law, the sum
> chargeable to tax is to be considered, with an angle of the domestic law,
> unless the payee is there to demonstrate that he is not chargeable under the
> DTAA either by himself or through a payer. The payee never comes u/s 195 (3)
> of the I.T. Act. It is not available on the record that payee had ever
> informed the payer about the holding of their tax residency certificate and
> also whether they want the benefit of DTAA. According to the learned Counsel
> for the Revenue the tax residency certificate given by the sovereign of the
> State or State(s) would satisfy that payee Page - 131 IT(TP)A.1511 to
> 1516/Bang/2013 is a taxable entity in that state and it is entitled for the
> benefit of DTAA, if the provisions are more beneficial than the domestic
> law. Contrary to this contentions, it was pointed out by the learned Counsel
> for the assessee that the assessee has complied with the procedural
> requirement contemplated under Rule 37BB of the ITR 1962. It had submitted
> the details of the payee relevant clauses of the DTAA. According to him the
> entire literatures, commentaries and judicial decisions run counter to the
> arguments of the Revenue. The judgment of the Hon'ble Andhra Pradesh High
> Court in the case of Sanofi Pasteur Holdings (supra), was brought to our
> notice during the course of hearing. The Hon'ble Court has made a reference
> with regard to the background giving rise to tax treaties and how the
> treaties and domestic law co-exists for administering the taxation of any
> assessee. The findings of the Hon'ble Court explaining the scope and role of
> the DTAA is worth to note here, it read as under: "Double tax treaties are
> international agreements, their creation and consequences determined
> according to the rules contained in the Vienna Convention on the Law of
> Treaties, 1969 (VCLT). The conclusion of a treaty/convention is preceded by
> negotiations. States intending to conclude a treaty are represented by the
> appropriate level of executive, political or diplomatic expertise according
> to individual practices and judgment of the participant states. There are
> several steps in the negotiations phase eventually leading to conclusion of
> the treaty.
> Treaties or conventions are thus instruments signaling sovereign political
> choices negotiated between States. The efficacy of a treaty over domestic
> law turns upon either State - specific conventions operating to govern the
> sovereign practices, or where there is a written constitution provisions of
> that charter. 'Double taxation treaty rules do not "authorize" or "allocate"
> jurisdiction to tax to the contracting State nor attribute the "right to
> tax". As is recognized by public international law and constitutional law,
> States have the original jurisdiction to tax, as an attribute of
> sovereignty. What double taxation treaties do is to establish an independent
> mechanism to avoid double taxation through restriction of tax claims in
> areas where overlapping tax claims are expected, or at least theoretically
> possible. Essentially therefore, through the mechanism of a treaty the
> contracting states mutually bind themselves not to levy taxes, or to tax
> only to a limited extent, in cases where the treaty reserves taxation for
> the other contracting states, either wholly or in part. Contracting states
> thus and qua treaty provisions, waive tax claims or divide tax sources
> and/or the taxable object.
Unlike rules of private international law tax treaty norms assume that both
contracting states tax according to their own law. Treaty rules do not lead to
the application of foreign law. What treaty rules do is to limit the content
of the tax law of both the contracting states to avoid double-taxation. In
effect, double taxation avoidance treaty rules merely alter the legal
consequences derived from the tax laws of the contracting states, either by
excluding application of provisions of the domestic tax law where these apply
or by obliging one or both of the concerned States to allow a credit against
their domestic tax for taxes paid Page - 132 IT(TP)A.1511 to 1516/Bang/2013 in
the other State. Klaus Wogel (Supra) explains that rules or double taxation
are thus not conflict rules, similar to that in private international law but
are rules of limitation of law, comparable to those of international
administrative law'.
37\. According to the learned Counsel for the Revenue, the treaty is not to be
applied automatically. Section 90(2) of the Income Tax Act mandates
application of treaty and it is applicable in relation to an assessee upon
whom such agreements are applicable. In the present case it is applicable in
the case of payee, if at all is applicable, he has highlighted that Article-1
in all the treaties specifies the type of person to whom treaty would be
applicable. The treaty would be applicable to a person who is resident of
State (R) or source of income in a State(s). It does not mean that it is
applicable according to the domicile. He also questioned who will make inquiry
about the residential status of the payee under Article-4. He also pointed
that DTAA is not a parallel Code and not a complete Code. It only allocates
taxing rights. The Hon'ble Andhra Pradesh High Court has specifically observed
that treaty rules do not force or "allocate jurisdiction" to tax to the
contracting state, nor attribute the "right to tax". According to the Hon'ble
Court it is recognized by public international law and constitutional law,
states have the original jurisdiction to tax as an attribute of sovereignty,
the rule of double taxation treaties is to establish an independent mechanism
to avoid double taxation through restriction of tax claims in areas where
overlapping tax claims are accepted. The learned Counsel for the Revenue has
not raked up any new controversy in his submissions. He has just highlighted
the procedural limitations of the inquiry required to be conducted u/s 195
r.w.s 201. To our mind onus is upon the assessee to determine that payments
made by it do not involve the element of income. The role of the Assessing
Officer while conducting the inquiry u/s 201 would be to demolish the
formation of this opinion at the end of the assessee. The Assessing Officer
has to indicate that the payments made by the assessee are the sums chargeable
to tax and belief harboured by the assessee that it is not chargeable to tax
and therefore it did not deduct the tax was an erroneous belief. We will
consider the evidence available on record in support of the assessee's
conclusions in the later part of this order, but analysis of the scheme of
income tax act, namely recovery of taxes in advance by withholding under
Chapter XVII, procedure u/s 195(2) and 195(3) and procedure for assessment
persuade us to say that certainly the rights as available to the payee to
defend itself in an income tax assessment proceedings are not available to the
assessee as payer in equal force. The learned Counsel for the Revenue has
rightly pointed that provisions of DTAA would not automatically attract in the
defense of the payer. There may be number of reasons for not assessing the
income in the hands of the payee. The payee may be entitled for some
deductions, some exemption etc. The cumulative setting of all these peripheral
factor and their bearing in ultimate decision making process will be
considered by us in later part of the order.
126 Respectfully following the judgment of Hon'ble SC in the matter of
Transmission Corporation of AP Ltd. v. CIT [1999] 239 ITR Page - 133
IT(TP)A.1511 to 1516/Bang/2013 587, orders of the coordinate benches in the
matter of Vodafone South Ltd. [2015] 53 taxmann.com 441 (Bangalore - Trib.)
and also for the reasons mentioned herein above ground 13 of the appeals is
dismissed .
We may also mention here that we have considered the common arguments raised
in cross appeals bearing Nos.IT(IT)A.374 & 466/Bang/2013 while adjudicating
the present six appeals.
127\. In the result, all the six appeals of the assessee are dismissed. Order
pronounced in the open court on 23rd October, 2017 Sd/- Sd/-
      (JASON P. BOAZ)                              (LALIET KUMAR)
    ACCOUNTANT MEMBER                             JUDICIAL MEMBER
    Place      : Bengaluru
    D a t e d : 23/10/2017
    MCN*
    Copy to :
          1 Appellant
          2 Respondent
          3 CIT(A)-
          4 CIT
          5 DR, ITAT, Bangalore.
          6 Guard file
                                                         By order
                                                Senior Private Secretary
                                              Income-tax Appellate Tribunal
                                                             Bangalore
                                      Page - 134
    IT(TP)A.1511 to 1516/Bang/2013
127\. In the result, all the six appeals of the assessee are dismissed. Order
pronounced in the open court on 23rd October, 2017 Sd/- Sd/-
      (JASON P. BOAZ)                              (LALIET KUMAR)
    ACCOUNTANT MEMBER                             JUDICIAL MEMBER
    Place      : Bengaluru
    D a t e d : 23/10/2017
    MCN*
    Copy to :
          1 Appellant
          2 Respondent
          3 CIT(A)-
          4 CIT
          5 DR, ITAT, Bangalore.
          6 Guard file
                                                         By order
                                                Senior Private Secretary
    Range-11,
    Bengaluru.                                     ... Respondent
     Assessee by : Shri Percy Pardiwala, Sr. Counsel, Smt. Tanmayee
                   Rajkumar, Advocate & Shri. Vinay Mangla, CA.
     Revenue by : Shri K.V.Arvind, Standing Counsel for Department
                   Date of hearing : 31/08/2017
            Date of pronouncement: 23/10/2017
                       O R D E R
PER LALIET KUMAR, JM :
These are in all six appeals are by the assessee against the order of the
CIT(A) -IV, Bengaluru, dt.20.09.2013, for the assessment years 2007-08 to
2012-13.
Page - 2 IT(TP)A.1511 to 1516/Bang/2013
02\. The assessee raised the following common grounds of appeal in ITA
Nos.1511 to 1516/Bang/2013 for the assessment years 2007-08 to 2012-13.
Ground 1: Erred in holding that the Ad Words program is a complex computer
software, the right to use has been granted to the Appellant without
appreciating the fact that Adwords program is a standard advertisement product
through which the advertiser is able to publish its advertisement on the
Google website.
127\. In the result, all the six appeals of the assessee are dismissed. Order
pronounced in the open court on 23rd October, 2017 Sd/- Sd/-
      (JASON P. BOAZ)                              (LALIET KUMAR)
    ACCOUNTANT MEMBER                             JUDICIAL MEMBER
    Place      : Bengaluru
    D a t e d : 23/10/2017
    MCN*
    Copy to :
          1 Appellant
          2 Respondent
          3 CIT(A)-
          4 CIT
          5 DR, ITAT, Bangalore.
          6 Guard file
                                                         By order
                                                Senior Private Secretary
    Range-11,
    Bengaluru.                                     ... Respondent
     Assessee by : Shri Percy Pardiwala, Sr. Counsel, Smt. Tanmayee
                   Rajkumar, Advocate & Shri. Vinay Mangla, CA.
     Revenue by : Shri K.V.Arvind, Standing Counsel for Department
                   Date of hearing : 31/08/2017
            Date of pronouncement: 23/10/2017
                       O R D E R
PER LALIET KUMAR, JM :
These are in all six appeals are by the assessee against the order of the
CIT(A) -IV, Bengaluru, dt.20.09.2013, for the assessment years 2007-08 to
2012-13.
Page - 2 IT(TP)A.1511 to 1516/Bang/2013
02\. The assessee raised the following common grounds of appeal in ITA
Nos.1511 to 1516/Bang/2013 for the assessment years 2007-08 to 2012-13.
Ground 1: Erred in holding that the Ad Words program is a complex computer
software, the right to use has been granted to the Appellant without
appreciating the fact that Adwords program is a standard advertisement product
through which the advertiser is able to publish its advertisement on the
Google website.
127\. In the result, all the six appeals of the assessee are dismissed. Order
pronounced in the open court on 23rd October, 2017 Sd/- Sd/-
      (JASON P. BOAZ)                              (LALIET KUMAR)
    ACCOUNTANT MEMBER                             JUDICIAL MEMBER
    Place      : Bengaluru
    D a t e d : 23/10/2017
    MCN*
    Copy to :
          1 Appellant
          2 Respondent
          3 CIT(A)-
          4 CIT
          5 DR, ITAT, Bangalore.
          6 Guard file
                                                         By order
                                                Senior Private Secretary
    Range-11,
    Bengaluru.                                     ... Respondent
     Assessee by : Shri Percy Pardiwala, Sr. Counsel, Smt. Tanmayee
                   Rajkumar, Advocate & Shri. Vinay Mangla, CA.
     Revenue by : Shri K.V.Arvind, Standing Counsel for Department
                   Date of hearing : 31/08/2017
            Date of pronouncement: 23/10/2017
                       O R D E R
PER LALIET KUMAR, JM :
These are in all six appeals are by the assessee against the order of the
CIT(A) -IV, Bengaluru, dt.20.09.2013, for the assessment years 2007-08 to
2012-13.
Page - 2 IT(TP)A.1511 to 1516/Bang/2013
02\. The assessee raised the following common grounds of appeal in ITA
Nos.1511 to 1516/Bang/2013 for the assessment years 2007-08 to 2012-13.
Ground 1: Erred in holding that the Ad Words program is a complex computer
software, the right to use has been granted to the Appellant without
appreciating the fact that Adwords program is a standard advertisement product
through which the advertiser is able to publish its advertisement on the
Google website.
Ground 2: Erred in holding that Google Ireland Limited, Ireland has granted
the Appellant the right to use of the Adwords program, which is a complex
computer program without parting with the copyright, thus granting license to
use the software without appreciating the fact that the Appellant is only
involved in marketing and distribution of advertisement space to the Indian
advertisers and that it is GIL which uses the back end process/ program for
processing and displaying the advertisement.
Ground 3: Erred in holding that the amount payable towards purchase of
advertisement space to be in the nature of 'Royalty' under the Act, even after
acknowledging that the Appellant is distributing advertisement space to the
advertisers in India.
127\. In the result, all the six appeals of the assessee are dismissed. Order
pronounced in the open court on 23rd October, 2017 Sd/- Sd/-
      (JASON P. BOAZ)                              (LALIET KUMAR)
    ACCOUNTANT MEMBER                             JUDICIAL MEMBER
    Place      : Bengaluru
    D a t e d : 23/10/2017
    MCN*
    Copy to :
          1 Appellant
          2 Respondent
          3 CIT(A)-
          4 CIT
          5 DR, ITAT, Bangalore.
          6 Guard file
                                                         By order
                                                Senior Private Secretary
    Range-11,
    Bengaluru.                                     ... Respondent
     Assessee by : Shri Percy Pardiwala, Sr. Counsel, Smt. Tanmayee
                   Rajkumar, Advocate & Shri. Vinay Mangla, CA.
     Revenue by : Shri K.V.Arvind, Standing Counsel for Department
                   Date of hearing : 31/08/2017
            Date of pronouncement: 23/10/2017
                       O R D E R
PER LALIET KUMAR, JM :
These are in all six appeals are by the assessee against the order of the
CIT(A) -IV, Bengaluru, dt.20.09.2013, for the assessment years 2007-08 to
2012-13.
Page - 2 IT(TP)A.1511 to 1516/Bang/2013
02\. The assessee raised the following common grounds of appeal in ITA
Nos.1511 to 1516/Bang/2013 for the assessment years 2007-08 to 2012-13.
Ground 1: Erred in holding that the Ad Words program is a complex computer
software, the right to use has been granted to the Appellant without
appreciating the fact that Adwords program is a standard advertisement product
through which the advertiser is able to publish its advertisement on the
Google website.
Ground 2: Erred in holding that Google Ireland Limited, Ireland has granted
the Appellant the right to use of the Adwords program, which is a complex
computer program without parting with the copyright, thus granting license to
use the software without appreciating the fact that the Appellant is only
involved in marketing and distribution of advertisement space to the Indian
advertisers and that it is GIL which uses the back end process/ program for
processing and displaying the advertisement.
Ground 3: Erred in holding that the amount payable towards purchase of
advertisement space to be in the nature of 'Royalty' under the Act, even after
acknowledging that the Appellant is distributing advertisement space to the
advertisers in India.
127\. In the result, all the six appeals of the assessee are dismissed. Order
pronounced in the open court on 23rd October, 2017 Sd/- Sd/-
      (JASON P. BOAZ)                              (LALIET KUMAR)
    ACCOUNTANT MEMBER                             JUDICIAL MEMBER
    Place      : Bengaluru
    D a t e d : 23/10/2017
    MCN*
    Copy to :
          1 Appellant
          2 Respondent
          3 CIT(A)-
          4 CIT
          5 DR, ITAT, Bangalore.
          6 Guard file
                                                         By order
                                                Senior Private Secretary
