Income Tax Appellate Tribunal - Delhi
Samsung India Electronics Pvt. ... vs Acit, New Delhi on 4 October, 2019
              IN THE INCOME TAX APPELLATE TRIBUNAL
                   DELHI BENCH "I-2" NEW DELHI
           BEFORE SHRI AMIT SHUKLA, JUDICIAL MEMBER
                              AND
         SHRI PRASHANT MAHARISHI, ACCOUNTANT MEMBER
         I.T.As. No.3248, 3410/DEL/2012, 5856/Del/2010,
    5315/Del/2011,52/Del/2013, 1567/Del/2014, 6741/Del/2014,
                  868/Del/2016 & 2511/Del/2018
    Assessment Years: 2005-06, 2006-07, 2007-08, 2008-09, 2009-10,
                          2010-11, 2011-12
    Samsung India Electronics vs.       Addl.CIT, Range-7
    Pvt. Ltd.,                          New Delhi.
    3rd Floor, Tower-C, Vipul
    Tech Square,
    Sector-43, Golf Course
    Road, Gurgaon.
    TAN/PAN: AAACS 5123K
    (Appellant)                         (Respondent)
has made the provision for a sum of Rs. 2,61,540/-. The excess provision has
been written back and a sum of rs. 1,05,989/- was offered for tax in the next
year. Thus the exact amount paid without deducting the TDS is Rs. 1,55,551/-.
The assessee has raised the plea before the AO but ld. AO has not assign any
reason for not accepting this plea. If we confirmed the disallowance of the
total amount then amount of Rs.1,05,989/- would suffer tax twice i.e. by way
of disallowance in this year and in the next year when assessee has written
back the provision. Therefore, we direct the AO to exclude this amount from
the disallowance after verification that it was offered for tax in the next
year."
In view of the foregoing discussion and the authorities cited above, we allow
this ground and direct the AO to allow this deduction.
249\. In view of our discussion and our finding given above qua each year, all
the appeals are treated as partly allowed.
Order pronounced in the open Court on 4th October, 2019.
                  Sd/-                                        Sd/-
    (Appellant)                         (Respondent)
    Appellant by:                  S/Shri Himanshu Sinha, Shri
                                   Bhuwan Dhooper, Adv. & Ms. Vrinda
                                   Tulsan, Adv.
    Respondent by:                 Shri H.K. Choudhary, CIT-D.R.
    Date of hearing:               27 09 2019
    Date of pronouncement:         04 10 2019
                                   ORDER
PER BENCH:
The appeals in ITA Nos. 3248/Del/2012, 5856/Del/10, 5315/Del/11, 52/Del/13,
1567/Del/2014, 6741/Del/2014, 868/Del/2016 & 2511/Del/2018 have been filed by
the assessee in respect of the assessment years 2005-06 to 2011-12
respectively. Whereas, the appeal in ITA No. 3410/Del/2012 is a cross appeal
filed by the Revenue for the AY 2005-06. Since the issues involved in all
these appeals are common therefore, we  2 deem it fit and convenient to
dispose-off these appeals by way of this consolidated order. We will take
first the appeals for the A.Y. 2005-06.
2\. The appellant assessee, Samsung India Electronics Pvt. Ltd. (SIEL), is a
company incorporated in India under the Companies Act, 1956 and is primarily
engaged in the business of manufacture and sale of consumer electronics and
home appliances goods such as colour televisions, refrigerators, air
conditioners, washing machines, microwave ovens, computer peripherals etc. The
appellant company is a part of the Samsung group of companies. It is 100%
subsidiary of Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd. Korea ('SEC'). One common ground
permeating in all the years except for the appeal for AY 2006-07 is the ground
pertaining to transfer pricing adjustment made on account of advertising and
marketing promotion (AMP) expenditure incurred by the appellant, which shall
be dealt firstly and subsequently, all other grounds shall be taken up.
AY 2005-06
3\. Facts in brief for the AY 2005-06 are that, the appellant had filed its
return of income on 31 October 2005, declaring a loss of Rs. 6,35,44,316. The
assessing officer referred the case to the Transfer Pricing Officer - II (2),
New Delhi (TPO) for determination of the arm's length price (ALP) of the
international transactions entered into by the appellant with its associated
enterprises. During the relevant assessment year, appellant had entered into
new numerous international transactions with various associated enterprises
(AEs). These international transactions were grouped under various segments
and based on a transfer pricing study,  3 their arm's length price were
determined. A summary of the international transactions and the appellant's
approach in determining their ALP is summarised in the table below: -
    Nature of International Most                Profit Level SIEL's      Compar
    Transactions            Appropriate         Indicator    Profit      ables
                            Method                           Level       Profit
                                                             Indicator   Level
                                                                         Indicato
                                                                         r
    Class          I         -   Cost     Plus Gross      33.60%         23.78%
    Manufacturing                Method        Profit   /
    (Consumer                    (CPM)         Input Cost
    Electronics,        Home
    Appliances & Colour
    Monitors)
    Import       of       raw
    materials
    Import of spare parts
    Export    of     finished
    goods
    Purchase of samples
    Purchase      of     sales
    promotion material
    Class II - Distribution      Resale Price Gross       14.48%         6.45%
    (Consumer                    Method       Profit/Sale
    Electronics,        Home     ('RPM')      s
    Appliances, Monitors
    and    other      IT    &
    Telecom Products)
    Import    of     finished
    goods
    Import of spare parts
    Export of spare parts
    Purchase of samples
    Export of samples
    Payment for packing &
    R&D expenses
    Purchase      of     sales
    promotion material
    Class III - Sales and        Transactional Operating 20.43%          6.12%
    Post-sales support           Net   Margin Profit     /
    Service Income               Method        Total Cost
                                                                       4
                               ('TNMM')
    Class IV - Contract        Transactional    Operating 15%          13%
    Software Development       Net     Margin   Profit    /
    Software development       Method           Total Cost
    services                   ('TNMM')
    Class V                    Comparable       NA          NA         NA
    Reimbursement      of      Uncontrolled
    expenses                   Price Method
                               ('CUP')
    Class VI                   Comparable       NA          NA         NA
    Payment of royalty         Uncontrolled
                               Price Method
                               ('CUP')
    Class         VII      -   Comparable       NA          NA         NA
    Miscellaneous              Uncontrolled
    expenses/transactions      Price Method
    Import of capital goods    ('CUP')
    and spare parts
    Payment of IT related
    fees
    Payment of service
    expenses
    Payment of technical
    assistance fees
    Payment for service
    fee, training fees etc
4\. The dispute in the appeals for the A.Y. 2005-06 filed by the appellant and
the cross appeal filed by the Revenue pertains to the international
transactions grouped under Class-I (manufacturing) segment and Class-II
(distribution) segment. There is no dispute in respect of the ALP of the
international transactions in Classes III, IV, V, VI and VII, which are in
respect of segments pertaining to post sale support services, software
development service and other miscellaneous transactions, i.e., payment on
royalty and reimbursement of expenditure.
5
5\. In respect of Class -I (manufacturing) segment, following transactions
have been grouped together by the appellant in its transfer pricing study
prepared under rule 10B of the Income Tax Rules 1962 (Rules);
> i) Import of raw-materials;
> ii) Import of spare parts'
> iii) Export of financial goods;
> iv) Purchase of goods on sample basis;
> v) Purchase of sales promotion material;
As stated above, assessee is engaged in the manufacturing of consumer
electronic goods, home appliances and colour monitors. Cost Plus Method (CPM)
was chosen qua this segment as the most appropriate method in its transfer
pricing study. The profit level indicator taken was taken as gross
profit/input costs. For the benchmarking exercise, an economic analysis was
carried out in the TP study leading to identification of 11 uncontrolled
comparable companies. Since appellant had earned gross profit margin of 36.6%
which was much higher than the gross profit earned by the comparable
companies, hence it was reported that the international transactions in which
Class-I (manufacturing) segment were at arm's length price.
6\. In Class-II (distribution) segment, assessee was engaged in the
distribution of consumer electronic goods, home appliances, monitors, IT
products and telecom products. For this segment, Resale Price Method (RPM) was
chosen by the assessee as the most appropriate method to determine the ALP
with Gross Profit margin (gross profit /sales) as the profit level indicator.
The economic analysis carried out on the database showed 5 uncontrolled
independent comparable companies whose mean  6 gross profit margin arrived at
6.45%. Since the gross profit margin of the appellant in the distribution
segment was higher at 14.48%, hence it was concluded that the international
transactions in Class-II segment were at arm's length.
7\. The transfer pricing officer (TPO) rejected the most appropriate method
adopted by the assessee and discarded the CPM for Class-I (manufacturing)
segment; and RPM for the Class- II (distribution) segment. As per the TPO for
both the segments, Transactional Net Margin Method (TNMM) was the most
suitable method for determining of arm's length price. Under the TNMM, he
selected operating profit margin on revenues (OP/OR; OP = operating profit/ OR
= operating revenue) as the profit level indicator for both the segments.
Further, the TPO while computing the PLI of the assessee for manufacturing and
distribution segments increased the quantum of operating expenditure for
computing the operating profit by Rs. 142.39 crores. The aforesaid amount of
Rs. 142.39 crores had been received by the assessee during the relevant
financial year from its parent company as a reimbursement under an assistance
agreement referred to as Marketing Development Fund (MDF) Agreement. In terms
of MDF agreement, the assessee had received the assistance from its parent
company to conduct certain marketing activities. This amount has been shown as
reimbursement in the Form 3CEB and in the transfer pricing study report and
was reduced from the expenditure shown under the head "advertisement".
Accordingly, in the profit and loss account of the financial statement under
head "advertisement" expenditure only the net amount was shown, though the
gross amount expended for advertisement was Rs 306.38 crores, on account of
reimbursement received was Rs.
7
142.39 crores, the net amount of Rs. 306.38 (-) Rs.142.39 crores = 163.99
crores was shown as the net advertisement expenditure. The TPO concluded that
this was an erroneous approach and was of the view that the entire amount of
Rs. 306.38 crores incurred under the head "advertisement" should be taken into
account to compute operating profit and the operating profit margin. This
approach and calculation of the TPO was based on a similar approach adopted in
the prior assessment years. Accordingly, while the operating expenditure under
the head advertisement was increased from Rs. 163.99 crores to Rs. 306.38
crores leading to fall in operating profit and margin, the corresponding
reimbursement of Rs. 142.39 crores received from the appellant's parent
company was not included as part of the revenue. Based on this approach, the
operating profit margin (OP/OR) of the manufacturing segment was determined at
(-) 4.34% and the distribution segment at (-) 3.5%. The TPO further proceeded
to undertake a fresh benchmarking analysis of the uncontrolled comparable
companies and arrived at a set of 12 comparable companies for the Class-I
manufacturing segment and set of 13 comparables for the Class-II distribution
segment. The arithmetic mean of the operating profit margin (OP/OR) of these
comparables for the manufacturing segment was computed at 1.25%. Similarly,
the profit margin of the comparables in the distribution segment was carried
out at (-) 0.447%. To compute profit level indicators of the comparable
companies, the TPO used multiple years' data (current and two previous years
to the extent of availability of data). The margins computed by the TPO are
after making adjustments on account of working capital differences. Based on
the above approach, the TPO worked out an adjustment to the arm's length price
of the international transactions pertaining to  8 manufacturing segment at
Rs.112,642,9851/- which was subsequently reduced to Rs.110,586,5807/- vide an
order under section 154 dated 19/01/2009. In respect of distribution segment,
the adjustment to the arm's length was worked out to be at Rs. 592,809,324/-
which was subsequently reduced to Rs. 572,545,869/- vide aforesaid order dated
19/01/2009.
8\. The TPO also carried out a secondary analysis, with respect to the
Advertisement, Marketing and Promotion ("AMP") expenses incurred by the
assessee company as he was of the view that the assessee has provided certain
services in respect of creation of marketing intangibles, to its AE. The TPO
was of the view that any AMP expenditure incurred by the assessee over and
above the average AMP spentby the comparable companies was extraordinary in
nature and incurred for the benefit of the AE which owned the "Samsung" brand.
The TPO worked out the average AMP spend by the comparables at 1.05% of the
Sales, whereas the assessee was at 7.71% of the Sales and treated the
difference as the value for the brand promotion service which the assessee had
provided to its AE. He accordingly proposed that, this amount should have been
recovered by the assessee from its AE. The approach followed by the TPO in
respect of this adjustment was as under:
    Particulars                                            Amount (Rs.)
    Total Income (A)                                       39,741,026,611
    Advertisement and sales promotion expenses incurred    3,063,811,643
    (B)
    AMP / Total Income of SIEL (C) = (B)/(A)               7.7094%
    Bright Line (AMP/total income of comparables) (D)      1.05%
    AMP as per bright line ('E) = (A)*(D)                  417,280,779
                                                                      9
Excess Amount Spent on Advertisement as compared 2,646,530,864 to the
comparables (F) = (B)-(E) Less: Reimbursement received from its parent SEC
1,423,950,954 Adjustment proposed as per secondary analysis 1,222,579,910
(Rs.) on protective basis However, no addition was made by the TPO/AO in this
respect and this analysis was meant to the used if the additions made under
TNMM for Class I and II were deleted in appeal. This was an alternate and
without prejudice analysis given by the TPO.
10\. The AO incorporated the adjustment to the ALP made by the TPO and further
made the following additions to total income:-
(a) Recruitment and training expenses of Rs. 1,72,98,334 was treated as
capital expenditure and not allowable as a revenue expenditure u/s 37 of the
Act;
(b) Loss arising on account of fluctuation of foreign exchange currency
amounting to Rs. 7,79,52,000 was disallowed as being notional and contingent
in nature. Subsequently, the Ld. AO passed an order (u/s 154) dated July 24,
2009 deleting the addition made on this account;
(c) Depreciation on UPS, printers and servers was restricted to 15% as against
60% claimed by the appellant leading to a disallowance of Rs. 3,21,617.
11\. The assessee being aggrieved by the orders of the TPO and AO preferred an
appeal before the Commission of Income Tax (Appeals)-XXIX, New Delhi (CIT(A))
contesting the aforesaid additions made to the total income of the assessee on
various grounds.
10
12\. The CIT (A) disposed off the appeal filed by the assessee vide his order
dated 27th April 2012, partly allowing the appeal on following lines:
(a) CIT (A) held that the reference made by the AO to the TPO for
determination of ALP of the international transactions did not suffer from any
illegality and was a valid one;
(b) The CIT(A) held that TNMM should be adopted as the most suitable method
for Class I and II Manufacturing and Distribution segments;
(c) Videocon International Ltd., being functionally different, cannot be taken
as a comparable for Class I Manufacturing segment because this company is
engaged in backward integration and indigenous manufacturing of components.
The CIT(A) in this regard relied on the order of the prior assessment year
2004-05 whereby his predecessor while examining the suitability of this
company as a comparable had rejected the same for the above reason. Since
there was no change of facts and circumstances, the CIT(A) has followed the
prior year's order;
(d) The CIT(A) ordered the exclusion of four companies, namely, Khaitan
Electricals Ltd, Hotline Teletube& Components Ltd, Samtel India Ltd and Samtel
Colour Ltd. from the list of comparables for the Class I Manufacturing segment
as these companies had substantial related party transactions. The value of
transactions as a percentage of sales was in excess of the generally accepted
limit of 15%.;
(e) In the Class II segment, the CIT(A) ordered the exclusion of Control Print
(India) Ltd. from the list of comparable companies  11 as in the prior
assessment year 2004-05 on identical facts it had been held by his predecessor
that this company is functionally dissimilar to the appellant's distribution
business;
(f) Similarly, another company Gemini Communication Ltd. was also held to be
incomparable to the appellant's Class II distribution business on account of
functionally dissimilarity. This company was found to be engaged in end to end
IT solutions and provision of services;
(g) The CIT(A) held that the TPO's approach of relying on three years' average
data to determine the average profit margin of the comparables was not in
accordance with law and it should be restricted to only current year data.
While holding so, he once again relied on his predecessor's order of A.Y.
2004-05;
(h) As regards the issue of re-computation of profit margin of the appellant
by treating the reimbursement received from its AE as operating expenditure
while not treating the same as operating income, the CIT(A) held the same to
be unjustified. He held that this approach of the TPO had been adopted in
prior assessment years as well but the same had been negated by his
predecessors in A.Yrs. 2002-03 to 2004-05. By relying on these prior years'
orders, he held that the reimbursement of Rs. 142.39 crores was to be treated
as operating income and profit as well.
(i) The CIT(A), however, approved the secondary analysis carried out by the
TPO in respect of the AMP expenditure whereby he had made a protective
assessment on account of "excessive" AMP expenditure incurred by the appellant
to promote the "Samsung" brand. As per the TPO, since the appellant's combined
AMP expenditure for this year at 7.7% of sales was  12 much higher than 1.05%
of sales (the three years average AMP spend by the comparables in the
manufacturing and trading segments), the excess of 6.65% (corresponding to Rs.
264.65 crores) represented a brand promotion service rendered by the appellant
company to its parent which ought to have been received as reimbursement under
the arm's length principle. However, the TPO had not proposed any separate
addition on this account as he had taken a view that the reimbursement of
marketing expenditure of Rs. 142.39 crores received by the appellant did not
form part of the operating income while being part of the operating
expenditure. On this basis an addition of Rs. 167.84 crores wasmade by the TPO
which was incorporated by the AO in the assessment year. No further addition
based on the secondary AMP analysis was made by the TPO and the AO. It was
stated that this was only a protective assessment which would come into effect
if on appeal the primary approach was deleted. Since the CIT(A) had negated
the primary approach of treating the reimbursement of marketing expenses as
expenditure but not as income, he examined the alternative approach based on
which protective assessment had been made and held that the alternative
approach was an acceptable method of determining the ALP of the excess AMP
expenditure. He held as below:
"Now, since the ground of appeal regarding upward adjustment of TP has been
allowed by taking a view that he reimbursement of marketing expenses shall
form part of operating profits, the issue of excess of advertisement expenses
has to be decided separately. The AO has not made separate addition on this
account because this addition already stands included in upward adjustment of
TP and therefore this addition was in effect eclipsed by the addition  13 made
on account of TP. Now since the eclipse caused by the TP addition has been
removed, the addition on account of excess advertisement expenses becomes
apparent. As it is not a new addition made by the AO on account of TP, no
notice of enhancement is required to be given to the appellant. The appellant
has not submitted any substantial argument on this issue and has simply argued
that since the products that were advertised in India were not dealt with
anyone else in India therefore benefit of such expenditure enures to no one
else. TPO has already taken care of this argument. TPO has worked out excess
advertisement expenses by making proper comparative analysis. I therefore hold
that addition on account of excess marketing expenses stands confirmed to the
tune of Rs. 122,25,79,910." (Page 31 of the impugned order).
(j) The CIT(A) held that the benefit of 5% provided in the Proviso to Section
92C(2) is not a standard deduction and if the difference between the transfer
price and ALP exceeds 5%, the whole of such difference shall be treated as an
adjustment.
(k) The CIT(A) computed the profit margin of the appellant at (- ) 0.64% as
against the comparables mean profit margin at (-) 7.37% using current year
data for the Class I manufacturing segment leading to the deletion of the TP
adjustment made in this segment. Further, the margin of the Class II
Distribution segment of the appellant was worked out to be 0.21% as against
the mean margin of the comparables at 0.38% leading to adjustment of Rs.
3,30,33,800 in this segment. The margins were computed after giving effect to
the CIT(A)'s findings on treatment of reimbursement, exclusion of certain
comparables and use of current year data for the comparables.
(l) As regards the disallowance pertaining to treatment of recruitment and
training expenses as capital expenditure and not revenue expenditure, the
CIT(A) deleted the disallowance by  14 relying on the decision of its
predecessor in AY 2004-05, as well as the ITAT on this issue in appellant's
case for A.Y. 1998-99. The CIT(A) observed that an appeal filed against the
order of the ITAT has been dismissed by the Delhi High Court on 11/01/2010.
Facts being same as in earlier years, he held that these expenses are fully
deductible.
(m) The CIT(A) while examining the issue of depreciation on UPS, printers and
servers, observed that this issue has been decided by the Delhi High Court in
favour of the assessee in the case of CIT v. BSES Rajdhani Powers Ltd. (ITA
No. 1266/Del/2010). While following the same, he held that depreciation is to
be allowed @60% on these items.
(n) The ground relating to disallowance on account of loss arising from
fluctuation of foreign currency was not pressed by the appellant as the AO had
amended the assessment order dated July 24, 2009 u/s 154 to allow the claim of
this loss.
13\. Aggrieved by the order of the CIT (A), the assessee and Revenue have
preferred the present appeals for AY 2005-06. The issues involved in all the
appeals from AYs 2005-06 to 2011-12 are though several, however, one common
issue permeating in all the appeals (i.e. AY 2005-06, 2007-08 to 2011-12),
except for AY 2006-07, pertains to the transfer pricing adjustment on account
of AMP expenditure which we will deal firstly, as it is one of the core issues
contested by the parties before us. The remainder of the issues shall be dealt
with appeal wise subsequently in this order.
Adjustment made in respect ofAdvertising and Marketing Promotion (AMP)
Expenditure involved in Assessee's appeals for AY 2005-06 (Ground No. 3.1 to
3.6); 2007-08 (Ground No. 1.1 to 1.3); 2008-09 (Ground  15 No. 2.1 to 2.12);
2009-10 (Ground No. 1 to 12); 2010-11 (Ground No. 1 to 11); and 2011-12
(Ground No. 2 to 12)
14\. Grounds 3.1 to 3.6 taken by the appellant in its appeal for AY 2005-06
are as below:
> GROUND NO. 3.1: The AO/CIT(A) has erred by not providing reasons for
> rejecting the analysis undertaken by the appellant for benchmarking the
> international transaction pertaining to reimbursement of advertisement
> expenses.
> GROUND NO. 3.2:The CIT(A) has erred in not providing an opportunity of being
> heard to the appellant and mechanically accepting the secondary analysis (of
> determining the arm's length price of marketing intangibles) undertaken by
> TPO in respect of reimbursement of advertisement expenses, thereby failing
> to pass a speaking order.
> GROUND NO. 3.3: The AO/CIT(A) has acted in excess of jurisdiction assigned
> under the Indian transfer pricing regulations by analyzing the advertisement
> expenditure of the appellant, in plain disregard of the fact of the same,
> being a domestic transaction undertaken by the parties, does not fall under
> the purview of Section 92 of the Act.
> GROUND NO. 3.4: The AO/CIT (A) has erred in concluding that the appellant
> has incurred excess advertising expenditure vis-à- vis comparable companies
> and should have accordingly, been reimbursed for the same.
> GROUND NO. 3.5: The AO/CIT (A) has erred in not appreciating that the
> advertisement expenditure was incurred exclusively for promotion of products
> of the appellant in India and was in the nature of business expenditure
> allowable as deduction.
> Ground NO. 3.6: The CIT(A) has erred in upholding the secondary analysis
> undertaken by the TPO when the arm's length price of the appellant's
> transactions with the AEs have already been tested under the transactional
> net margin method.
The grounds and issues pertaining to AMP taken up by the appellant in other
AYs are similar and are not being reproduced herein for the sake of brevity.
16
15\. From AY 2005-06 to AY 2011-12 (except for AY 2006-07), the TPO has made
similar adjustments on account of AMP expenses incurred by the assessee as he
was of the view that the assessee had provided certain services in respect of
creation of marketing intangibles to its AE. The TPO held that any AMP
expenditure incurred by the assessee over and above the average AMP spend of
the comparable companies (referred to as the "Bright Line" Test) was
extraordinary in nature and incurred for the benefit of the AE which owned the
"Samsung" brand. In AY 2005-06 (as in other years), the Ld. TPO applied the
Bright Line Test (BLT) and worked out the average AMP spend of the comparables
at 1.05% of Sales and that of the Appellant at 7.71% of Sales and treated the
difference as the value of the service which the Appellant had provided to its
AE. He accordingly held that the excess amount should have been recovered by
the appellant from its AE and made an addition of Rs. 122,25,79,910/-.
16\. Similar additions were made by the TPO for AY 2007-08 to AY 2011-12,
wherein the TPO applied the BLT to benchmark the AMP expenditure.In AY
2007-08, the TPO made an addition on account of excess AMP expenditure of Rs.
131,13,25,080/- after applying a mark-up of 12%. In AY 2008-09, the TPO
proposed an adjustment of Rs.454,94,35,445/- which was revised to Rs.
48,40,26,768/- by the Dispute Resolution Panel (DRP). In AY 2009-10, the TPO
worked out the average AMP/Sales of the comparables at 3.66% as against 9.19%
in the case of the Appellant (rectified to 9.03% of sales vide rectification
order dated 06 March 2013) and considered this difference as the value of the
service which the Appellant had provided to its AE and he proposed an
adjustment of Rs. 455,53,39,101/-. In AY 2010-11,  17 the TPO proposed an
adjustment of Rs.740,15,52,834/- (Rs. 102,15,61,275/- under the IT business
and Rs. 637,99,91,559/- under the Non-IT business) with respect to AMP
expenses. In AY 2011-12, the TPO proposed an adjustment of Rs.1188,41,38,456/-
(Rs. 122,22,38,922/- under the IT business and Rs. 1066,18,99,534/- under the
Non-IT business) which was reduced to Rs. 39,43,68,561/- (i.e. Rs.
31,31,05,771/- under the non-IT segment and Rs. 8,12,62,790/- under the IT
segment) by the Ld. DRP.
17\. On this issue, the Ld. Counsel for the appellant assessee right at the
onset submitted that the approach adopted by the TPO and the CIT(A) in respect
of the AMP expenditure has come to be known as the "Bright line test" which
has been subject matter of extensive litigation before the ITAT and the High
Courts. The Special Bench of this Tribunal in the case of L.G. Electronics
[2013] 140 ITD 41 had approved this approach and had held that excessive
expenditure could be treated as a separate international transaction that
could be subjected to arm's length exercise on its own. While holding so, the
Special Bench had laid down extensive guidelines to determine the value of the
international transaction and the ALP of the same. Subsequently, the Hon'ble
Jurisdictional Delhi High Court in the case of Sony Ericsson [2015] 374 ITR
118has held that the "Bright line test" was not a valid test of determining
the ALP of the AMP transaction as it was not statutorily mandated. The High
Court further laid down numerous guidelines and principles to determine the
ALP of AMP transaction. Subsequent to this the Hon'ble Delhi High Court
expanded the jurisprudence in this regard in the cases of Maruti Suzuki [2016]
381 ITR 117, Whirlpool [2016] 381 ITR 154 and Bausch & 18 Lomb [2016] 381 ITR
227 by holding that existence of an international transaction merely on the
ground of excess AMP expenditure cannot be presumed. It has to be shown to be
existing based on mutual understanding or arrangement between the assessee and
its associated enterprise. The Court further held AMP was a function and not a
transaction.
18\. It was also pointed out by the Ld. Counsel that Sony Ericsson's case
(supra) was a batch of appeals dealing with assessees who were distributors;
and the subsequent decisions of Maruti Suzuki and Whirlpool (supra) dealt with
manufacturers and the two categories of assessee's stand on a different
footing. The licensed manufacturers who operate as risk bearing entities
cannot be examined under the so-called AMP framework as their investments in
manufacturing and marketing are fully reflected in their profit margins and
there cannot be a segregation of returns on manufacturing and returns on
marketing as both go hand in hand and are inextricably linked. When goods are
manufactured and marketed by the same Indian entity, it would be illogical for
the Revenue to contend that such an entity should be treated in the same
manner as an Indian distributor which distributes goods imported from a
foreign manufacturer under a brand owned by an AE on the ground that by
incurring "excessive" AMP expenditure, the brand-owner AE stands to gain at
the expense of the Indian entity.
19\. He submitted that Samsung is a globally well-known name in consumer goods
industry and the strength of the brand enhances the sale of consumer goods by
it in India, while competing with other domestic and global brands operating
in the  19 Indian market. It is the assessee, an Indian Company, who is
actually benefitted by being able to exploit the license for the use of brands
granted by the licensor. Had the taxpayer sold these goods under an unknown
brand name, products could not have stood in competition against other reputed
brands in the market. The primary benefit is of the assessee who is selling
the goods in India and the benefit obtained by the licensor is only
incidental. As per the Ld. Counsel, after the decisions of Maruti Suzuki,
Whirlpool and Bausch & Lomb (supra), there is no room for any confusion
regarding the treatment of AMP expenditure as a separate international
transaction. The Hon'ble Delhi High Court in these decisions has categorically
held that for an international transaction to exist within the meaning of
Section 92B, the Revenue has to show that there existed an agreement or
understanding or arrangement, that the Indian entity would incur AMP
expenditure for or on behalf of the AE which owns the brand. In the absence of
such "action in concert", no international transaction can be said to exist.
If the existence of international transaction cannot be established with any
degree of certainty, the question of determining the ALP of the same would not
arise.
20\. The same principle has been upheld in numerous other judgments of the
Delhi High Court as cited below:- • Goodyear India Limited (ITA 77/2017 & CM
Nos. 3072-
73/2017, ITA 78/2017 & CM Nos. 3074-75/2017, ITA 79/2017 & CM No. 3076/2017) •
Amadeus India Pvt. Ltd. (ITA 154/2017) • Casio India Company Private Limited
(ITA 309/2016) • Maruti Suzuki India Ltd (ITA No. 110/2014)  20 • Whirlpool of
India Ltd. (ITA No. 610/2014) • Honda Siel Power Products Ltd.(ITA No.
127/2017 & CM Nos. 4906-4907/2017 & 346/ 2015) • Bausch & Lomb Eyecare India
Pvt. Ltd. (ITA No. 643/2014).
21\. The Ld. Counsel vociferously argued by applying the aforesaid principles
in the instant case, where there was a marketing assistance agreement between
the assessee and its parent under which it had received an assistance to the
tune of Rs. 142.39 crores (in A.Y. 2005-06 and varying amounts in other years
under appeal) for the marketing activities it had conducted, this
reimbursement received under the MDF agreement was duly disclosed by the
appellant in the list of international transactions in Form 3CEB and further
its arm's length price (ALP) was also justified using Comparable Uncontrolled
Price (CUP) method. The same has not been disputed by the TPO in any manner.
These reimbursements are in respect of specific third party costs incurred for
advertising and marketing undertaken by the appellant after obtaining the
approval of the AE under a pre- agreed budget. He drew our attention to the
relevant clauses of the MDF agreement under which the reimbursements were
received. Accordingly, he submitted that as per the relevant terms of the MDF
agreement, the assessee obtains prior approval under a capped budget set by
the AE. It is a pure assistance or subsidy received by the appellant and does
not arise from a service rendered by the appellant. The appellant as a matter
of right cannot demand this assistance. The AE in its own discretion
determines the annual budget and approves specific marketing activities for
the appellant. Therefore, the only international  21 transaction with an
ascertainable price is limited to the reimbursement received by the appellant
under the MDF agreement. Not even a single rupee beyond the amount received as
reimbursement can be treated as an international transaction.
22\. The Ld. CIT (DR) Mr. Chaudhary, on the other hand, argued that the
existence of the MDF agreement between the appellant and the AE clearly
demonstrated that there existed an understanding between the two parties that
AMP expenditure would be incurred by the appellant on behalf of the AE for the
promotion of the brand owned by the AE. He further argued that on account of
this agreement, the value of this international transaction cannot be limited
to the amount of reimbursement received (Rs. 142.39 crores for AY 2005-06) but
extended to the entire quantum of AMP expenditure incurred by the appellant
during the year (Rs. 306.39 crores for AY 2005-06). He referred to the terms
of the MDF agreement which provided for assistance in respect of marketing
activities pertaining to the "Samsung" brand in print and electronic media.
These obligations, in his view, showed that the appellant was acting in
concert with its AE in respect of the brand promotion in India.
23\. In rejoinder, the Ld. Counsel, Mr. Sinha submitted that it is an admitted
position of the assessee that there is an understanding or arrangement under
the MDF agreement in respect of AMP expenditure. However, such a transaction
or arrangement is strictly limited to the value of reimbursement (Rs. 142.39
crore) received by the appellant under the agreement. These reimbursements
have been received against pre-approved invoices under a budget/cap stipulated
by the AE at the beginning  22 of the year. There is no tangible material or
evidence to show that even a rupee beyond this amount was spent under an
understanding or arrangement or action in concert with the parent AE. As per
the ratio of Maruti Suzuki, Whirlpool (supra) and other decisions, no
presumption can be made about the existence of an international transaction.
It was also pointed out that the appellant has no right to demand any
assistance or subsidy beyond the amount agreed under the MDF. In the absence
of any such right, the value of the international transaction cannot be
extended beyond the reimbursement amount which has already been disclosed in
the list of international transactions in Form 3CEB. The Ld. Counsel then
strongly relied upon the Sony Ericsson (supra) decision of the Hon'ble Delhi
High Court where Bright line test has been categorically rejected by the Court
as a method of determining the ALP of the AMP transaction. He drew the
attention of the Bench towards Paras 127 and 135 of this decision to contend
that it was not open for the Revenue to make a comparison of the average AMP
expenditure of the comparable companies to arrive at a bright line of AMP
expenditure beyond which it is presumed that the expenditure is for a service
rendered to the brand-owing AE.
24\. The Ld. Counsel also pointed out that even the official position of the
Govt. of India in respect of the bright line test has changed as is evident
from the India Chapter of the UN Transfer Pricing Guidelines. In the said
chapter which contains the official position of the Indian Govt. on marketing
intangibles, it has been clearly stated that instead of applying the bright
line test, it would be better to focus on the marketing function of the Indian
entity vis-a-vis the comparables chosen for benchmarking. He further  23
contended that the Hon'ble Delhi High Court in the decisions of Maruti Suzuki,
Whirlpool (supra) and others has recognised the fact that AMP expenditure are
incurred in respect to third party costs insofar as these represent amounts
paid or payable to unrelated parties (media houses, advertising agencies,
marketing bodies etc.) and cannot be treated as related party transactions
merely because some incidental benefit is said to accrue to the AEs.
24\. The Ld. Counsel also made a without prejudice argument regarding the
quantum and composition of AMP expenditure taken by the TPO. The TPO while
determining the value of international transaction of AMP and its ALP has
taken into account expenditure which is purely selling and operational
expenses and have no nexus with brand promotion or advertising in any manner.
These expenses include purely operational expenses incurred in connection with
dealers and sales promotion. The Hon'ble Delhi High Court in Sony Ericsson
(supra) has held that selling costs cannot form part of the AMP transaction.
Only those expenses which related to promotion of brand and advertising of
brand can be taken. Sales related costs like dealer commission, discounts,
sales promotions and trade event expenditures cannot be taken as part of the
advertising costs. In this case, the TPO and the CIT (A) have erred in not
distinguishing between the sales and brand promotion costs leading to a
distorted picture. It was accordingly submitted that if at all the AMP
expenditure was to be permitted to be taken as a separate international
transaction, the value and ALP of the same has to be limited to the brand
promotion related expenses and should exclude selling costs.The Ld. Counsel
also submitted that for AYs 2007-08 to 2010-11, the  24 TPO has also
erroneously considered rebates & discounts, in addition to sales promotion and
selling expenditure, as a part of AMP. Further, the TPO himself for AY 2005-06
& 2011-12 did not include rebates and discounts as part of AMP. In this
respect, the he contended that 'Rebates and discounts' and expenses in
connection with sales do not lead to brand promotion and cannot be attributed
to brand promotion as they represent 'point of sale' expenses.
25\. The Ld. CIT(DR) in his reply contended that even selling costs should be
included within the ambit of AMP expenditure as even these costs lead to
creation of "marketing intangibles". In his view, the concept of marketing
intangibles is wider than that of brand promotion and includes within its
ambit marketing network, dealer and customer relationship and therefore all
kinds of selling expenses should also form part of the AMP expenses.
26\. By way of rejoinder, Ld. Counsel submitted that this issue is no longer
res integra as the Hon'ble Delhi High Court in Sony Ericsson and the Special
Bench in LG Electronics (supra) have decided this issue in a categorical
manner in favour of the assessee by holding that it would not be fair and
logical to include selling costs within the ambit of the AMP expenditure. A
break-up of the total AMP expenses (operational and promotional expenses) for
AY 2005-06, 2007-08 to 2011-12 was also submitted.
27\. On the issue of application of Transaction Net Margin Method, the Ld.
Counsel submitted that the Hon'ble Delhi High Court in Sony Ericsson (supra)
has held that, once the profit margin of the manufacturing and distribution
segments are tested  25 under TNMM, all the international transactions which
are clubbed in the segment stand fully covered by the TNMM analysis. In such a
situation, it would be illogical and incongruous to treat AMP expenditure as a
separate transaction and subject the same to a Bright line test on a stand-
alone basis. Under TNMM, the net margin of the segment is tested and since the
net margin is computed after taking into account the entire AMP expenditure,
the impact of AMP is fully captured in the TNMM analysis. Furthermore, he
argued that the TPO has changed the comparables used in the TNMM benchmarking
analysis which implies that he has applied his mind on the comparability of
the companies chosen for the comparison under TNMM. The TPO not only had
changed the comparables but had also changed the method of computation of the
profit level indicator. The CIT (A) further had an occasion to examine both
the aspects and has given his clear findings on both these aspects. Once the
TNMM analysis has been subject matter of analysis at the hands of TPO and the
CIT (A), it would serve no purpose in segregating the AMP expenditure as a
separate transaction at this stage of second appeal.
28\. The Ld. CIT (DR) submitted that despite having examined all the
international transactions in a bundled manner under TNMM, the Ld. TPO and Ld.
CIT (A) are justified in subjecting the AMP transaction to a Cost Plus Method
on a standalone basis, because this expenditure has been incurred to benefit
the brand "Samsung" which is owned by the Appellant's parent company and no
remuneration for this brand promotion service has been received.
26
29\. The Ld. Counsel then submitted that the Revenue has grossly erred in
equating AMP expenditure with brand building and in alleging that "excessive"
AMP expenditure beyond the bright line is a brand promotion service. He
submitted that brand is a capital asset and it would be fallacious to treat
any and all AMP expenditure as leading to brand building. Brand-building leads
to enhancement of value of the brand and benefits the brand owner as much as
it helps the brand-exploiter like a licensed manufacturer or a distributor.
Brand-building is in the realm of capital and brand-promotion targeted towards
sale of goods or services is in the realm of revenue transactions. Therefore,
any distributor or licensed manufacturer like the assessee which incurs AMP
expenditure for promoting the sales of its goods is not guided by the motive
of enhancing brand value but purely by enhancing its sales. Increase in brand
value happens slowly over a long period of time and there is no correlation
between AMP expenditure and brand value. This is because brand value depends
on numerous factors, most of which are not linked with AMP expenditure. The
most important component of a brand is its reliability and quality and the
reliability and quality of goods are not linked with AMP expenditure but on
other expenses like R&D, quality control, after-sales services, customer
services etc. AMP expenditure incurred by SIEL being revenue expenditure
cannot be treated as contributing towards enhancement of value of the brand
owned by the AE. There can be situations where AMP expenditure incurred by an
Indian affiliate leads to enhancement of value of brand owned by an AE over a
long period of time, but such a relationship cannot be presumed to exist for
every assessee and for every year. It has to be specifically demonstrated that
brand value has gone up over a long period of time and a portion of this  27
enhancement is attributable to successful AMP campaigns conducted by the
Indian affiliate. Even in these situations, the benefit to the brand owner AE
has to be treated as incidental and not a guiding force for the AMP
expenditure incurred by the Indian assessee. The Ld. Counsel further submitted
that if an assessee exercises long-term distribution and long-term licensing
manufacturing rights, it is implicit that any investment in AMP whether high
or low is towards its own sales. The return on investment is expected to be
reaped over a period of time as SIEL as an exclusive distributor/licensed
manufacturer in India is alone entitled to benefit from this investment.
30\. The Ld. Counsel submitted that empirical and scholarly studies have shown
that within a sector or industry there is huge variation of AMP expenditure
among competitors. Various competitors place differing levels of importance on
advertising and brand promotion depending upon their understanding and belief
regarding the impact of advertising on sales. Empirical studies have shown
that there is no positive correlation between advertising and increase in
sales and no specific return on investment (ROI) can be inferred in respect of
expenditure incurred on advertisement. To support this proposition he referred
to a scholarly article authored by Justin M. Rao of Microsoft and Randall A.
Lewis of Google titled "The Unfavourable Economics of Measuring the Returns to
Advertising" published in The Quarterly Journal of Economics (2015) 1941-1973,
Oxford University Press which contains a rigorous analysis of correlation
between advertising spend and increase in sales. The conclusion drawn in this
article is that it is not possible to quantify the extra sales that can be
generated based on incremental AMP spend. It also  28 contains empirical data
showing wide variation of AMP spend among competitors in the same sector or
industry. Based on the above, it has been submitted that it is not possible to
determine the impact of increased intensity of advertising function on profit
margin, because the impact of advertising on sales cannot be determined and
quantified. In the absence of a quantifiable measurement, it is not possible
to make a "reasonably accurate" adjustment to the profit margins of the
comparable companies as mandated under law.In view of the above, it was
submitted that it would be erroneous to treat AMP as a separate international
transaction and any attempt to benchmark such an imaginary transaction in any
manner (whether as bundled transaction or on a stand-alone basis) would be an
exercise in futility.
31\. In his reply, the Ld. CIT (DR) fairly conceded that "bright line" test is
no longer a valid and legal way of determining the existence of an
international transaction pertaining to "excessive" AMP expenditure. However,
he emphasised that in terms of the principles laid down by the Hon'ble Delhi
High Court, existence of an international transaction in respect of AMP
expenditure can be shown to exist if there is an arrangement between the
assessee and its brand-owning AE to carry out brand promotion activities in
India. He submitted that in the present case, the facts show that such an
arrangement exists by way of an agreement (MDF agreement) between the
Appellant and its AE. In this respect, he relied upon the ruling of this
Tribunal in the case of BMW India (P.) Ltd. v. DCIT [2017] 190 TTJ 717 (Delhi
- Trib.), wherein the question of AMP being an international transaction has
been decided against the assessee and the determination of the ALP of the same
has been remanded to the TPO in view of the principles  29 laid down in Sony
Ericsson decision of the High Court (supra). In this case, in an agreement
between BMW India and its AE BMW Germany, it was found that the BMW India
represented the interests of BMW Germany. It was found that BMW India was
responsible for the sale promotion and full utilization of the market
potential for the Contract Goods in India. Further, it was found that BMW
India undertook the performance of adequate advertisement and sales promotion
as well as public and media relations activities for BMW Germany and not on
its own volition. Under these circumstances, it was held that there is an
Agreement between BMW India and BMW Germany for promoting BMW brand in India
which constituted an international transaction. He further submitted that even
in the present case there is an agreement between the assessee and its AE
whereby the assessee is undertaking marketing and advertising activity at an
extensive level and this activity is being carried out at the behest of the AE
and the brand development benefit is solely derived by the AE itself. Such an
arrangement, in his view, can be inferred from the terms of the agreement and
the conduct of the assessee.
32\. The Ld. Counsel for the Appellant in his rejoinder submitted that in the
present case, there is no clause in the MDF agreement between the assessee and
its foreign AE which shows that the assessee represented interests of the
foreign AE in India. Further, the assessee has already disclosed the
reimbursement of Rs. 142.39 crores in its Form 3CEB as an international
transaction and has justified its ALP in the TP report using CUP method for AY
2005-06. Similar disclosures have been made in other years as well. The amount
reimbursed is in the nature of assistance received against specific pre-
approved invoices under a capped  30 budget specified in advance. The value of
this international transaction cannot be extended or stretched beyond the
amount reimbursed because the understanding between the appellant and its AE
is limited to Rs. 142.39 under the terms of the MDF agreement itself.
Accordingly, it was not possible to rely on this agreement to argue that the
entire AMP expenditure (or the amount beyond the so-called bright line) be
treated as a separate international transaction. It was also submitted that
the Hon'ble Delhi High Court in the case of Whirlpool (supra) has held that a
mere agreement providing for the involvement of the AE in the AMP function of
an Indian assessee cannot be treated as a reason for presuming the existence
of an international transaction. There has to be a clear common understanding
or action in concert in respect of the AMP expenditure in India as being
incurred at the behest or instance of the foreign AE.
33\. The Ld. Counsel further relied on the following decisions of the Tribunal
where existence of an international transaction of AMP expenditure has been
negated:
\- Nippon Paint India (P) Ltd v ACIT: [2017] 79 taxmann.com 8 (Chennai-Trib)
\- Widex India (P)Ltd v ACIT: [2017] 78 taxman.com 348 (Chandigarh-Trib)
\- MSD Pharmaceuticals(P) Ltd v ACIT: 2017] 88 taxmann.com 54 (Del-Trib)
\- Philips India Ltd v ACIT: [2018] 90 taxmann.com 357 (Kolkata-Trib)
\- CIT v Johnson & Johnson Ltd: [2017] 80 taxmann.com 269 (Bombay HC)  31
\- ACIT v Colgate Palmolive (India) Ltd: ITA No. 6073/Mum/2014 (Mum-Trib).
34\. The Ld. Counsel on a without prejudice basis, submitted that the Ld. TPO
in AYs 2007-08 to 2011-12 has added a mark-up on the excess AMP expenses. He
submitted that no mark-up must be charged on the same as the consumer
electronics and IT hardware industry is highly competitive in nature, featured
by aggressive marketing strategies undertaken by various players in the
industry due to various factors such as price sensitivities, different
preferences in urban and rural markets etc. to create/retain the customer
base. It is extremely important for the players in this industry to undertake
such strategies to create/maintain their market position. He contended that
payments made to third parties such as advertisement agencies, printing press
etc. should be excluded from the cost base while computing a mark-up and the
same does not reflect the value addition/ efforts of the assessee and are
merely third-party costs. In this regard, he has placed his reliance on ITAT
decision in the case of Cheil Communications India Private Limited (2011) 46
SOT 60.
Protective Assessment in AY 2005-06
35\. As regards the approach of the TPO to make a "protective assessment", the
ld. Counsel submitted that such an approach is impermissible in law.
Protective assessment cannot be made in the hands of the same assessee on an
alternative basis. It has a limited application to cases where a single item
of income is assessed in the hands of two distinct persons as the identity of
the  32 real owner of income is not known or is not clear. In this regard he
relied on the decision of the ITAT in the case of MSD Pharmaceuticals (P.)
Ltd. v. ACIT [2018] 191 TTJ 702 (Delhi - Trib.).The Ld. Counselalso placed
reliance on the decision of Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Lalji Haridas
v Income Tax Officer: [1961] 43 ITR 387 wherein it was held that protective
assessment can only be made in respect of two separate entities to ensure that
income does not escape taxation. Ld. CIT(DR) relied on the order of the lower
authorities.
DECISION
36\. We have heard the rival submissions, perused the relevant findings given
in the impugned orders as well as material referred to before us in respect of
transfer pricing issue pertaining to AMP adjustment made by the TPO. We have
already discussed in detail, the brief facts and background of the cases in
the light of the material on record and as captured in the arguments placed by
the parties. From the discussion made above, we will deal with various issues
relating to AMP adjustment. The first issue for our consideration is:-
> Whether AMP expenditure incurred by the assessee during the year is an
> international transaction? In the present context can the value of the AMP
> transaction be extended or expanded beyond the amount received as
> reimbursement under the MDF agreement?
37\. First of all, if assessee is a full fledged risk bearing manufacturer and
is carrying out sales through the territory of India on its own with all the
risks and rewards, then in our opinion, AMP expenditure incurred by an
assessee is  33 demonstrative of its marketing and advertising function. This
function is carried out by the assessee with the intention of driving its
sales in India and resultant profit and loss. AMP expenditure incurred is
meant to aid and facilitate the main sales function. The question before us is
that, whether this function can be characterized as a transaction which falls
under the ambit of an "international transaction" u/s 92B of the Act.
Ordinarily, AMP expenditure is manifested in the form of third-party
transactions by way of payments for advertisement and brand promotion
activities. These transactions cannot per se partake the character of an
"international transaction" within the meaning of Section 92B unless the
conditions laid down in the provision are met. Section 92B covers transactions
between AEs having cross-border element (i.e., involving a non-resident).
Section 92B also contemplates existence of international transactions where
the parties are not related to each other and don't qualify as AEs under
Section 92A of the Act. These situations are those where though in form the
transaction is entered into between unrelated parties the substance of the
same is governed by an understanding or arrangement between AE of one party
with another enterprise.Therefore, for any transaction of AMP entered into
between the assessee and another enterprise which is not an AE u/s 92A of the
Act, this understanding or arrangement has to be shown to exist. If the
assessee denies having any such arrangement or understanding with its AE or
when there is no apparent material on record to show that there exists any
agreement, arrangement or action in concert between the two related parties,
the onus rests on the Revenue to demonstrate the same before it can apply the
provisions of Chapter X on the AMP expenditure. In the present case, the only
ground on which the Ld.
34
TPO and the Ld. DRP have concluded that the AMP expenditure constitutes an
"international transaction" is the "excessive" quantum of expenditure which is
stated to be much above the "bright line" of the average AMP spend of the
comparable companies. This approach, to our mind, is contrary to law and
untenable.
38\. Our view is bolstered by the various decisions of the Hon'ble Delhi High
Court and coordinate benches of this Tribunal in this regard. In Whirlpool of
India Ltd. v. DCIT (2016) 381 ITR 154 (Del), the following relevant principles
have been laid down by the Court which have been reiterated/followed in other
decisions as well:
(a) Sections 92B to 92F contemplate the existence of an international
transaction as a pre-requisite for commencing the TP exercise. The Court
observed that "to begin with there has to be an international transaction with
a certain disclosed price. The TP adjustment envisages the substitution of the
price of such international transaction with the ALP". (Para
33).
(b) The Court went to hold that, "the TP adjustment is not expected to be made
by deducing the difference between the excessive AMP expenditure incurred by
the Assessee and the AMP expenditure of a comparable entity that an
international transaction exists and then proceed to make the adjustment of
the difference in order to determine the value of such AMP expenditure
incurred for the AE. It is for this reason that the Bright line test has been
rejected as a valid method for either determining the existence of
international transaction or for the determination of ALP of such transaction.
Although, under  35 Section 92B read with Section 92F(v), an international
transaction could include an arrangement, understanding or action in concert,
this cannot be a matter of inference. There has to be some tangible evidence
on record to show that the two parties have "acted in concert"". (Paras
34-35).
(c) The Court cited the Supreme Court decision of Daichi Sankyo v. J.
Chiguripati (Civil Appeal No. 7148 of 2009) to emphasize that "action in
concert" would necessarily entail a "shared common objective or purpose"
between two or more persons. In the absence of such shared objective or
purpose, no presumption of a transaction can be made.
(d) As regards the onus to show the application of TP provisions, the Court
held that "initial onus is on the Revenue to demonstrate through some tangible
material that the two parties acted in concert and further there was an
agreement to enter into an international transaction concerning AMP expenses".
(Para 37).
(e) As regards the presumption for imposing a transfer pricing adjustment in
relation to AMP, the Court held that "37. The provisions under Chapter X do
envisage a 'separate entity concept'. In other words, there cannot be a
presumption that in the present case since WOIL is a subsidiary of Whirlpool
USA, all the activities of WOIL are in fact dictated by Whirlpool USA. Merely
because Whirlpool USA has a financial interest, it cannot be presumed that AMP
expense incurred by the WOIL are at the instance or on behalf of Whirlpool
USA." (Para 37)
(f) There is no machinery provision in the Act to bring an international
transaction involving AMP expense under the ambit of transfer pricing
provision if it cannot be shown that such an international transaction was
entered into by the  36 assessee. In Court's words, "It is in this context
that it is submitted and rightly by the Assessee that there must be a
machinery provision in the Act to bring an international transaction involving
AMP expense under the tax radar. In the absence of clear statutory provision
giving guidance as to how the existence of an international transaction
involving AMP expense, in the absence of an express agreement in that behalf,
should be ascertained and further how the ALP of such a transaction could be
ascertained, it cannot be left entirely to surmises and conjectures of the
TPO." (Para 39). The Court further held that after the invalidation of the
Bright line test by the Delhi High Court in Sony Ericsson (supra), existence
of an international transaction of AMP expenditure has to be established de
hors the Bright line test.
39\. It is also pertinent that the Hon'ble Court further held that as per the
principles laid down by the Apex Court in CIT v. B.C. Srinivasa Setty [1981]
128 ITR 294 (SC) and PNB Finance Ltd. v. CIT [2008] 307 ITR 75 (SC), in the
absence of a machinery provision, bringing an imagined transaction to tax is
not possible. If such a transaction with an ascertainable price is not shown
to exist, Chapter X cannot be invoked. The aforementioned principles have also
been applied by the Hon'ble Delhi High Court in the case of Valvoline Cummins
Private Ltd. (ITA 158/2016) wherein the Court observed as below:
"17....... The mere fact that the Assessee was permitted to use the brand name
'Valvoline' will not automatically lead to an inference that any expense that
the Assessee incurred towards AMP was only to enhance the brand 'Valvoline'.
The onus was on the Revenue to show the existence of any arrangement or  37
agreement on the basis of which it could be inferred that the AMP expense
incurred by the Assessee was not for its own benefit but for the benefit of
its AE. That factual foundation has been unable to be laid by the Revenue in
the present case. On the basis of the existing record, the TPO has found no
basis other than by applying the BLT, to discern the existence of
international transaction. Therefore, no purpose will be served if the matter
is remanded to the TPO, or even the ITAT, for this purpose."
40\. Therefore, the argument advanced by the Ld. CIT (DR) that the MDF
Agreement should be viewed as an evidence to demonstrate the existence of an
understanding and arrangement to carry out AMP in India at the behest of the
AE needs to be examined in light of the above principles laid down by the
Delhi High Court. In the present facts, we find that this transaction of
having received assistance /reimbursement has already been shown by the
assessee in its Form 3CEB as an international transaction. It has been
contended by the Revenue that by virtue of this agreement, the entire AMP
expenditure incurred by the assessee should be treated as an international
transaction and subject to the provisions of Chapter X of the Act.
41\. We find that the Appellant-assessee has entered into an understanding
with its AE in respect of a portion of the AMP expenditure by way of the MDF
agreement. Under this agreement, the AE of the assessee gives assistance to
the assessee for carrying out certain advertising and marketing activities in
India. Varying amounts have been received by the assessee from its AE under
this agreement as reimbursements in all the assessment years impugned before
us. The amounts received as assistance under this agreement in all these years
have also been indisputably  38 disclosed and explained in the Form 3CEB and
in the TP study. The question that requires our adjudication is whether by
virtue of this agreement, the so-called "excessive" AMP expenditure of the
assessee (which is much higher than the assistance received under the MDF
agreement) can be treated as an international transaction u/s 92B. For this we
need to advert to the terms of the MDF agreement. Relevant clauses of the MDF
agreement applicable for A.Y. 2005-06 (the agreements pertaining to other
years are materially similar) are extracted as below:
"Marketing Fund Agreement THIS AGREEMENT made and entered into this 1st day of
January, 2004 by and between Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd., a corporation duly
organized and existing under the laws of the Republic of Korea, having its
head office at Samsung Main Bldg, 250-2Ka Taepyung-Ro, Chung-Gu, Seoul, Korea
(hereinafter referred to as "SEC") and Samsung India Electronics a corporation
duly organized and existing under the laws of INDIA, having its principal
office at 3rd, IFCI Tower, Nehru Place, New Delhi, INDIA (hereinafter referred
to as "DISTRIBUTOR") Article 1. Purpose 1.1 The objectives of this Agreement
are to provide for terms and conditions of the Marketing Fund activities as
set forth in Article 4.3 which shall be carried out by DISTRIBUTOR on behalf
of SEC in the territory to further enhance Samsung corporate and brand images
therein. 1.2 The Marketing Fund shall mean a strategic fund specifically
reserved by SEC to support activities for upgrading corporate and brand images
in the target markets and developing new opportunities to promote the sales of
the target products therein.
Article 4. Scope of Reimbursement 4.1 The amount of reimbursement shall be the
actual Marketing Fund related expenses DISTRIBUTOR incurs to carry out the
pertinent activities as specified in Article 3 and 4.3 for the term of this
Agreement and the yearly total amount of such reimbursement shall be limited
to USD 30,000,000 assigned by SEC.
39
4.2 DISTRIBUTOR shall submit to SEC a detailed implementation plan pursuant to
the annual Marketing fund schedule in writing at least two weeks in advance of
the proposed implementation date for approval of said activities. DISTRIBUTOR
shall be entitled to claim a reimbursement for the expenses hereof only when
execution of such activities are pre-approved by SEC in a manner stated
herein.
4.3 The extent of the Marketing Fund related activities to be reimbursed shall
be limited to the following:
                 Category                  ACTIVITIES
                 Advertising    Broadcast media, print media, outdoor ad.
                                Sponsor, intent ad PR
                 Marketing      Market research, consulting, market data
                 infrastructure subscription database
Other marketing infrastructure activities Promotion Sales promotion activities
Dealer support activities (dealer convention, product training, incentive
tour) Exhibition, trade, roadshow Sales kit and POP materials Shop display
Samsung shop corner Rack & shop light box Other store display activities A
perusal of the aforesaid terms of the MDF agreement shows that the
reimbursement of a portion of the advertising and marketing expenditure
incurred by the assessee by its AE is on a pre- approval basis and under an
annual budget decided solely by the AE. The nature of reimbursement received
is a form of assistance or subsidy and does not arise on account of any
service rendered by the assessee. There is no obligation on the AE to approve
any particular item of expenditure. It is solely on its own volition that the
AE determines the activity it wants to finance/reimburse/assist. Therefore, it
is not possible to infer the  40 existence of an international transaction
beyond what has been reimbursed.
42\. In a similar situation, coordinate Bench of this Tribunal has examined
the issue of existence of an "international transaction" in the case of
PepsiCo India Holdings Pvt. Ltd. v. Addl. CIT (I.T.As. No. 1334/CHANDI/2010,
1203/ CHANDI /2011, 2511/DEL/2013, 1044/DEL/2014 & 4516/DEL/2016) where the
assessee, an Indian company had reimbursed a portion of the sponsorship
expenditure (for international cricket events) incurred by the AE for the
benefit of certain group companies including the assessee. The Revenue had
contended that by virtue of this reimbursement the entire AMP expenditure of
the assessee should be treated as an international transaction and subject to
determination of arm's length price under Chapter X of the Act. This view was
categorically repelled by the Coordinate Bench by observing as below:
"52....... In any case, if at all, ALP was to be determined then it should
have been strictly circumscribed to the reimbursement of the cost aggregating
to Rs.33,60,15,501/-. Further, the transaction of reimbursement of expenditure
of Rs.33,60,15,501/- cannot be expanded to the entire expenditure of AMP of
Rs.202.34 crores. The reason being, the amount of Rs.202.34 crores have been
incurred by the assessee on its own volition and business requirement to be in
competition with other big players in the field of aerated and non-aerated
beverages and food products. It is acclaimed fact that industry in which
assessee company is operating has to face stiff competition not only from the
Indian companies but also from many multinational  41 companies; and to remain
in the competition as a lead brand it has to aggressively promote its product
under the brand to remain in the competition and to augment its sale. All the
necessary functions of strategizing, advertising and marketing activities, its
implementation for market penetration in India is solely carried out by the
assessee and there is no material on record to infer that there is any
arrangement or agreement with the AE at any point of time that assessee is
required to spent on AMP or it has been done at the behest of the AE. The
reason adopted by the Revenue to conclude that the incurrence of AMP
expenditure by the assessee for promoting the brands which is owned by its AE
constituting a separate international transaction for the purpose of Section
92B which requires separate bench marking, does not has any legs to stand,
because the Revenue has failed to show the existence of any agreement,
understanding or arrangement between the assessee company and AE regarding the
quantum of AMP spent or it was spent on behest of AE. The TPO has not recorded
or identified any such separate arrangement or agreement that AMP expenses
incurred by the assessee company are in pursuance of any agreement or
arrangement. It is also not the case of the Department that the expenses which
has been incurred by the assessee company during the course of its business
have any bearing whatsoever on any other international transaction with the
AE, other than reimbursement of expenditure of Rs.33.60 crores as discussed
above.
53\. Section 92B defines the international transaction in the following
manner: - "(1) For the purposes of this section and sections 92, 92C, 92D and
92E, "international transaction"
42
means a transaction between two or more associated enterprises, either or both
of whom are non-residents, in the nature of purchase, sale or lease of
tangible or intangible property, or provision of services, or lending or
borrowing money, or any other transaction having a bearing on the profits,
income, losses or assets of such enterprises and shall include a mutual
agreement or arrangement between two or more associated enterprises for the
allocation or apportionment of, or any contribution to, any cost or expense
incurred or to be incurred in connection with a benefit, service or facility
provided or to be provided to anyone or more of such enterprises.
From the plain reading of the aforesaid Section, it is quite clear that: (i)
the transaction has to be between two or more associated enterprises either or
both of whom are non-resident; (ii) the transaction is in the nature of
purchase, sale or lease of tangible or intangible property or provision of
services or lending or borrowing money; (iii) or any other transaction having
bearing on the profits, income, loss or assets of such enterprises; (iv) all
such nature of transaction described in the section will also include mutual
agreement and the arrangement between the parties for allocation or
apportionment or any contribution to any cost or expenses incurred or to be
incurred in connection with benefit, services and facility provided to any of
such parties. Relevant Explanation to Section 92B as inserted by the Finance
Act, 2012 reads as under: - "i. the expression "international transaction"
shall include-- .............................. (b) the purchase, sale,
transfer, lease or use of intangible property, including the transfer of
ownership or the provision of use of rights regarding land use, copyrights,
patents, trademarks, licences, franchises,  43 customer list, marketing
channel, brand, commercial secret, know-how, industrial property right,
exterior design or practical and new design or any other business or
commercial rights of similar nature;
Clause (ii) of the said explanation reads as followsii. the expression
"intangible property" shall include-- (a) marketing related intangible assets,
such as, trademarks, trade names, brand names, logos;...................."
Thus, under the expanded definition of the term 'international transaction'
intangible property has been defined to include marketing related intangible
assets such as trademark, trade name, brand name and logos, etc. This inter
alia means that where two AEs engaged in the transaction which involved,
purchase, sale, transfer, lease or use of intangibles rights then the same
shall be classified as international transaction. From the above, definition,
apart from transaction relating to purchase, sale or lease of tangible or
intangible property, services lending or borrowing money, etc. functions
having bearing on the profits, income, losses or assets is reckoned as
international transaction. Besides this, if such a transaction is based on any
mutual agreement or arrangement between the AEs for allocation or any
contribution to any cost or expenditure incurred or to be incurred for the
benefit, service or facility, then also such an agreement or arrangement is
treated as international transaction.
Clause (v) of Section 92F reads as under: "92F (v). "transaction' includes an
arrangement, understanding or action in concert, - (A) Whether or not such
arrangement, understanding or action is formal or in writing; or (B) Whether
or not such arrangement,  44 understanding or action is intended to be
enforceable by legal proceedings." This definition of transaction has to be
read in conjunction with the definition given in section 92B, which means that
the transaction has to be first in the nature given in Section 92B (1); and
then when such transaction includes any kind of arrangement, understanding or
action in concert amongst the parties, whether in writing or formal, then too
it is treated as international transaction. Here the conjoint reading of both
the sections lead to an inference that in order to characterized as
international transaction, it has to be demonstrated that transaction arose in
pursuant to an arrangement, understanding or action in concert. Such an
arrangement has to be between the two parties and not any unilateral action by
one of the parties without any binding obligation on the other or without any
mutual understanding or contract. If one of the party by its own volition is
entering any expenditure for its own business purpose, then without there
being any corresponding binding obligation on the other or any such kind of an
arrangement actually existing in wring or oral or otherwise, it cannot be
characterized as international transaction within the scope and definition of
Section 92B (1).
Here, in this case, it has been vehemently argued from the side of the
assessee that assessee-company had incurred expenditure on AMP to cater to the
needs of the customers in the local market and such an expenditure was neither
incurred at the instance or behest of overseas AE nor there was any mutual
understanding or arrangement or allocation or contribution by the AE towards
reimbursement of any part of AMP expenditure incurred by it for the purpose of
its business. If no such understanding or  45 arrangement exists, then no
transaction or international transaction could be said to be involved between
the AE and the assessee which can be reckoned to be covered within the
provision of Transfer Pricing Regulation. The incurring of expenditure by the
assessee is in fact purely a domestic transaction by a domestic enterprise
with a third party in India for its own business purpose. Even the
reimbursement, as discussed above, by the assessee to its AE was in lieu of
sponsorship fee paid to ICC which again was wholly and exclusively for the
assessee's own business and was not at the behest or mandate of AE. This
contention of the learned counsel on the face of record is liable to be
accepted and in absence of any material or any kind of arrangement discovered
or brought on record by the Revenue, remains unrebutted. The onus is on the
Revenue to show that the twin requirement of Section 92B exists, that is,
firstly, the transaction involved was between the AE, one of which is resident
and other a non-resident was involved; and secondly, the transaction of AMP
expenses has taken place between the two AEs (except for reimbursement of
Rs.33.60 crore). Now it has been well settled by the Hon'ble Jurisdictional
High Court in the case of Maruti Suzuki India Pvt. Ltd. (supra) that onus is
upon the Revenue to demonstrate that there existed an arrangement between the
assessee and its AE under which assessee was obliged to incur excess amount of
AMP expenses to promote the brands owned by the AE. The relevant observation
and the finding of the Hon'ble High Court in paragraph 60 reads as under:
"60......Even if the resort is had to the residuary part of clause (b) to
contend that the AMP spend of MSIL is "any other transaction  46 having a
bearing" on its "profits, income or losses" for a 'transaction' there has to
be two parties. Therefore, for the purposes of the 'means' part of clause (b)
and the 'includes' part of clause (c,) the revenue has to show that there
exists an 'agreement' or 'arrangement' or 'understanding' between MSIL and SMC
whereby MSIL is obliged to spend excessively on AMP in order to promote the
brand SMC......
61......Even if the word 'transaction' to include 'arrangement',
'understanding' or 'action in concert', 'whether formal or in writing', it
still incumbent on the revenue to show the existence of an 'understanding' or
an 'arrangement' or 'action in concert' between MSIL and SMC as regards AMP
spend for brand promotion. In other words, for both the 'means' part and the
'includes' part of Section 92B (1) what has to be definitely shown is the
existence of transaction whereby MSIL has been obliged to incur AMP of a
certain level for SMC for the purposes of promoting the brand of SMC." Same
proposition has been upheld by the Hon'ble Jurisdictional High Court in the
case of Whirlpool of India Ltd. vs. DCIT, Bausch & Lomb Eyecare India Pvt.
Ltd. vs. ACIT (supra) and Honda Siel Power Products Ltd. vs. DCIT (supra)"
43\. In the present case we find that the Revenue has not been able to place
any material to record to show or suggest that the Appellant's AMP activity
was carried out at the behest of its AE, beyond what was approved and
reimbursed under the MDF Agreement. No understanding or arrangement or "action
in concert" can be inferred from the terms of the MDF agreement or the conduct
of the assessee to show that "excessive" AMP expenditure has been incurred at
the behest of the brand-owning  47 AE. The appellant being one of the major
players in the Indian market has carried out its AMP activity and function
based on its own judgement and commercial realities. Revenue has not placed
any material or evidence to show that there existed an understanding to incur
"excessive" AMP expenditure. The arrangement and understanding were limited to
the amounts agreed to be paid as assistance under the MDF Agreement. The
amounts incurred as AMP expenditure by the appellant under the MDF Agreement
have already been received as reimbursement/assistance and have indisputably
been disclosed as an international transaction in Form 3CEB and form part of
the transfer pricing study conducted under Rule 10D. The AMP expenditure which
is outside the ambit of reimbursement received under the MDF Agreement, has
been incurred by the appellant on its own volition as per its own requirements
and without any interference of the AE and have been paid to third parties.
44\. In view of the above, we hold that the scope and value of international
transaction cannot be expanded beyond the reimbursements received under MDF
agreement to cover the entire gamut of AMP expenditure incurred by the
assessee during the year.
45\. Now the second issue before us is, whether:
> "Bright Line Test" a valid test that can be used by the TPO to determine the
> existence of an international transaction and also for the determination of
> its arm's length value?
In all the years under appeal, the TPO has applied the "Bright Line" Test to
determine the "excessive" AMP expenditure incurred  48 by the Appellant. This
"excessive" amount has been treated as a separate international transaction
and subject to transfer pricing adjustment. The "bright line" test which was
first approved by a Special Bench of this Tribunal in LG Electronics now
stands rejected by the Delhi High Court decision in Sony Ericsson. In Sony
Ericsson, the Hon'ble High Court examined the concept of "bright line" in the
context of domestic law and international jurisprudence and arrived at a
conclusion that such an approach is untenable and contrary to law and not
sanctioned by international jurisprudence. The concluding remarks of the
Hon'ble High Court are as below:
"127. We agree and accept the position in the portion reproduced above in bold
and italics. The object and purpose of Transfer Pricing adjustment is to
ensure that the controlled taxpayers are given tax parity with uncontrolled
taxpayers by determining their true taxable income. There should be adequate
and proper compensation for the functions performed including AMP expenses.
Thus, we disagree with the Revenue and do not accept the overbearing and
orotund submission that the exercise to separate 'routine' and 'non-routine'
AMP or brand building exercise by applying 'bright line test' of non-
comparables and in all case, costs or compensation paid for AMP expenses would
be 'NIL', or at best would mean the amount or compensation expressly paid for
AMP expenses. Unhesitatingly, we add that in a specific case this criteria and
even zero attribution could be possible, but facts should so reveal and
require. To this extent, we would disagree with the majority decision in L.G.
Electronics India (P) Ltd. (supra).
135\. It is, therefore, incorrect to suggest or observe that international tax
jurisprudence or commentaries recognise "bright  49 line test" for bifurcation
of routine and non-routine AMP expenditure, and non-routine AMP expenses is an
independent international transaction which should be separately subjected to
arm's length pricing."
45\. In view of the above, we hold that the "bright line" approach is
untenable in law either as a way to determine the existence of an
international transaction or as a method to determine the ALP of an
international transaction pertaining to AMP. No international transaction can
be presumed to exist merely on the basis of "bright line" of expenditure
incurred by comparable companies.
46\. The third issue for our consideration is, If TNMM has been adopted at
segmental/entity level, then can individual component of AMP be segregated?
TNMM analysis entails comparison of net level profit margins of the assessee
with that of the comparables. Net level margins are determined after reducing
the entire operating expenses incurred by the business entity which
necessarily includes AMP expenditure. Therefore, once a TNMM exercise is
undertaken at entity level by subsuming the entire AMP expenditure as part of
the operating expenditure, the arm's length nature of all the transactions
that are accounted for within the net profit margin stand fully accounted for.
In the present case, the reimbursement received by the Appellant from its AE
under the MDF Agreement for a part of the AMP expenditure forms part of the
operating income as well as expenditure which goes into the computation of the
net profit margin (which is profit level indicator). Once a group of
transactions pertaining to operating income and expenditure are  50 being
tested under TNMM, it would not be open for the Revenue to segregate one item
of expenditure/income for a separate benchmarking unless for cogent reasons it
is of the view that a TNMM is not the most appropriate method to test all the
international transactions together. In such a situation the Revenue would
have to test each of the transactions separately and not leave any of the
transactions untested leading to an incongruous situation. We are fortified in
our view by the decision of the Hon'ble Delhi High Court in the case of Sony
Ericsson (supra) wherein the Court observed as below:
"101. However, once the Assessing Officer/TPO accepts and adopts TNM Method,
but then chooses to treat a particular expenditure like AMP as a separate
international transaction without bifurcation/segregation, it would as noticed
above, lead to unusual and incongruous results as AMP expenses is the cost or
expense and is not diverse. It is factored in the net profit of the inter-
linked transaction. This would be also in consonance with Rule 10B(1)(e),
which mandates only arriving at the net profit margin by comparing the profits
and loss account of the tested party with the comparable. The TNM Method
proceeds on the assumption that functions, assets and risk being broadly
similar and once suitable adjustments have been made, all things get taken
into account and stand reconciled when computing the net profit margin. Once
the comparables pass the functional analysis test and adjustments have been
made, then the profit margin as declared when matches with the comparables
would result in affirmation of the transfer price as the arm's length price.
Then to make a comparison of a horizontal item without segregation would be
impermissible."
51
In the present facts, we find that the TPO has subjected various international
transactions of the assessee to TNMM analyses under various segments and made
transfer pricing adjustments on the basis of external comparables chosen by
him. Several of these comparable companies included/excluded by him form
subject matter of the present appeals. It implies that the TPO has applied his
mind on the suitability of TNMM and made adjustments. Having adopted TNMM in a
considered manner, it is not open for him to take up AMP as a separate
transaction and subject to the same to a Cost Plus type of benchmarking
because the entire AMP expenditure forms part of the operating expenditure
that has been taken into account while computing the profit level indicator
(net profit margin).
47\. Next issue is, Brand building exercise equivalent to incurring AMP
expenditure?
In our view, it would be erroneous to treat any and all AMP expenditure as
being a brand building exercise. There is no basis to presume that there is a
positive correlation between AMP expenditure and brand-value. Brand value is a
far more complex concept than mere AMP expenditure. Brand is an intangible
asset that encapsulates the reputation of an entity and a reputation is built
over a long period of time primarily on the basis of trust it invokes. Year to
year AMP expenditure may vary due to market conditions, but the brand value
does not get altered in proportion to expenditure. AMP function itself is a
complex activity involves several nuanced aspects of marketing management
targeted towards increasing sales. Such an exercise is sometimes premised on
product promotion and sometimes brand messaging and occasionally for brand
familiarization. But the core of brand value  52 is not determined by the
quantum of expenditure incurred but the overall level of trust inspired in the
minds of the consumers. The Hon'ble Delhi High Court in the case of Sony
Ericsson (supra) has examined this aspect in detail. The relevant observations
are extracted below:
"103. Brand has been described as a cluster of functional and emotional
values. It is a matter of perception and reputation as it reflects customers'
experience and faith. Brand value is not generated overnight, but is created
over a period of time, when there is recognition that the logo or the name
guarantees a consistent level of quality and expertise. Leslie de Chernatony
and McDonald have described "a successful brand is an identifiable product,
service, person or place, augmented in such a way that the buyer or user
perceives relevant, unique, sustainable added values which match their needs
most closely." The words of the Supreme Court in Civil Appeal No.1201 of 1966
decided on 12th February, 1970 in Khushal Khenger Shah v. Mrs. Khorshedbanu,
DabridaBoatwala, to describe 'goodwill', can be adopted to describe a brand as
an intangible asset being the whole advantage of the reputation and
connections formed with the customer together with circumstances which make
the connection durable. The definition given by Lord MacNaghten in
Commissioner of Inland Revenue v. Muller & Co' & Margarine Ltd. [1901] 217 AC
223 can also be applied with marginal changes to understand the concept of
brand. In the context of 'goodwill' it was observed:
"It is very difficult, as it seems to me, to say that goodwill is not
property. Goodwill is bought and sold every day. It may be acquired. I think,
in any of the different ways in which property is usually acquired. When a man
has got it he may keep it as his own. He may vindicate his exclusive right to
it if necessary by process of law. He may dispose of it if he will - of
course, under the conditions attaching to property of that nature.....What is
good-will? It is a thing very easy to describe very difficult to define. It is
the benefit and advantage of the good name, reputation, and connection of a
business. It is the attractive force which brings in custom. It is the one
thing which distinguishes an old established business from a new business at
its first start. The goodwill of a business must emanate from a particular
centre or source. However, widely extended or diffused its  53 influence may
be, goodwill is worth nothing unless it has power of attraction sufficient to
bring customers home to the source from which it emanates. Goodwill is
composed of a variety of elements. It differs in its composition in different
trades and in different businesses in the same trade. One element may
preponderate here and another element there. To analyse goodwill and split it
up into its component parts, to pare it down as the Commissioners desire to do
until nothing is left but a dry residuum ingrained in the actual place where
the business is carried on while everything else is in the air, seems to me to
be as useful for practical purposes as it would be to resolve the human body
into the various substances of which it is said to be composed. The goodwill
of a business is one whole, and in a case like this it must be dealt with as
such. For my part, I think that if there is one attribute common to all cases
of goodwill it is the attribute of locality. For goodwill has no independent
existence. It cannot subsist by itself. It must be attached to a business.
Destroy the business, and the goodwill perishes with it, though elements
remain which may perhaps be gathered up and be revived again.......... "
104\. "Brand" has reference to a name, trademark or trade name. A brand like
'goodwill', therefore, is a value of attraction to customers arising from name
and a reputation for skill, integrity, efficient business management or
efficient service. Brand creation and value, therefore, depends upon a great
number of facts relevant for a particular business. It reflects the reputation
which the proprietor of the brand has gathered over a passage or period of
time in the form of widespread popularity and universal approval and
acceptance in the eyes of the customer. To use words from CIT v. Chunilal
Prabhudas& Co. AIR 1971 Cal 70, it would mean:
'... It has been horticulturally and botanically viewed as "a seed sprouting"
or an "acorn growing into the mighty Oak of goodwill". ... It has been
historically explained as growing and crystallising traditions in the
business. It has been described in terms of a magnet as the "attracting
force". In terms of comparative dynamics, goodwill has been described as the
"differential return of profit." Philosophically it has been held to be
intangible, Though immaterial, it is materially valued. Physically and
psychologically, it is a "habit" and sociologically it is a "custom".
Biologically, it has been described by Lord Macnaghten in Trego v. Hunt, 1896
AC 7 as the "sap and life" of the business. It has been horticulturally and
botanically viewed as "a seed sprouting" or an "acorn growing into the mighty
Oak of goodwill".
54
It has been geographically described by locality. It has been historically
explained as growing and crystallising traditions in the business. It has been
described in terms of a magnet as the "attracting force". In terms of
comparative dynamics, goodwill has been described as the "differential return
of profit." Philosophically it has been held to be intangible, Though
immaterial, it is materially valued. Physically and psychologically, it is a
"habit" and sociologically it is a "custom". Biologically, it has been
described by Lord Macnaghten in Trego v. Hunt, 1896 AC 7 as the "sap and life"
of the business.'
105\. There is a line of demarcation between development and exploitation.
Development of a trademark or goodwill takes place over a passage of time and
is a slow ongoing process. In cases of well recognised or known trademarks,
the said trademark is already recognised. Expenditures incurred for promoting
product(s) with a trademark is for exploitation of the trademark rather than
development of its value. A trademark is a market place device by which the
consumers identify the goods and services and their source. In the context of
trademark, the said mark symbolises the goodwill or the likelihood that the
consumers will make future purchases of the same goods or services. Value of
the brand also would depend upon and is attributable to intangibles other than
trademark. It refers to infrastructure, know-how, ability to compete with the
established market leaders. Brand value, therefore, does not represent
trademark as a standalone asset and is difficult and complex to determine and
segregate its value. Brand value depends upon the nature and quality of goods
and services sold or dealt with. Quality control being the most important
element, which can mar or enhance the value.
106\. Therefore, to assert and profess that brand building as equivalent or
substantial attribute of advertisement and sale promotion would be largely
incorrect. It represents a coordinated synergetic impact created by assortment
largely representing reputation and quality. There are a good number of
examples where brands have been built without incurring substantial
advertisement or promotion expenses and also cases where in spite of extensive
and large scale advertisements, brand values have not been created. Therefore,
it would be erroneous and fallacious to treat brand building as counterpart or
to commensurate brand with advertisement expenses. Brand building or creation
is a vexed and complexed issue, surely not just related to advertisement.
Advertisements may be the  55 quickest and effective way to tell a brand story
to a large audience, but just that is not enough to create or build a brand.
Market value of a brand would depend upon how many customers you have, which
has reference to brand goodwill, compared to a baseline of an unknown brand.
It is in this manner that value of the brand or brand equity is calculated.
Such calculations would be relevant when there is an attempt to sell or
transfer the brand name. Reputed brands do not go in for advertisement with
the intention to increase the brand value, but to increase the sales and
thereby earn larger and greater profits. It is not the case of the Revenue
that the foreign AEs are in the business of sale/transfer of brands.
107\. Accounting Standard 26 exemplifies distinction between expenditure
incurred to develop or acquire an intangible asset and internally generated
goodwill. An intangible asset should be recognised as an asset, if and only
if, it is probable that future economic benefits attributable to the said
asset will flow to the enterprise and the cost of the asset can be measured
reliably. The estimate would represent the set off of economic conditions that
will exist over the useful life of the intangible asset. At the initial stage,
intangible asset should be measured at cost. The above proposition would not
apply to internally generated goodwill or brand. Paragraph 35 specifically
elucidates that internally generated goodwill should not be recognised as an
asset. In some cases expenditure is incurred to generate future economic
benefits, but it may not result in creation of an intangible asset in form of
goodwill or brand, which meets the recognition criteria under AS-26.
Internally generated goodwill or brand is not treated as an asset in AS-26
because it is not an identifiable resource controlled by an enterprise, which
can be reliably measured at cost. Its value can change due to a range of
factors. Such uncertain and unpredictable differences, which would occur in
future, are indeterminate. In subsequent paragraphs, AS-26 records that
expenditure on materials and services used or consumed, salary, wages and
employment related costs, overheads, etc. contribute in generating internal
intangible asset. Thus, it is possible to compute goodwill or brand
equity/value at a point of time, but its future valuation would be perilous
and an iffy exercise.
108\. In paragraph 44 of AS-26, it is stated that intangible asset arising
from development will be recognised only and only if amongst several factors,
it can demonstrate a technical feasibility  56 of completing the intangible
asset so that it will be available for use or sale and the intention is to
complete the intangible asset for use or sale is shown or how the intangible
asset will generate probable future benefits, etc.
109\. The aforesaid position finds recognition and was accepted in CIT v. B.C.
Srinivasa Setty [1981] 2 SCC 460, a decision relating transfer to goodwill.
Goodwill, it was held, was a capital asset and denotes benefits arising from
connection and reputation. A variety of elements go into its making and the
composition varies in different trades, different businesses in the same
trade, as one element may pre-dominate one business, another element may
dominate in another business. It remains substantial in form and nebulous in
character. In progressing business, brand value or goodwill will show
progressive increase, but in falling business, it may vain. Thus, its value
fluctuates from one moment to another, depending upon reputation and
everything else relating to business, personality, business rectitude of the
owners, impact of contemporary market reputation, etc. Importantly, there can
be no account in value of the factors producing it and it is impossible to
predicate the moment of its birth for it comes silently into the world
unheralded and unproclaimed. Its benefit and impact need not be visibly felt
for some time. Imperceptible at birth, it exits unwrapped in a concept,
growing or fluctuating with numerous imponderables pouring into and affecting
the business. Thus, the date of acquisition or the date on which it comes into
existence is not possible to determine and it is impossible to say what was
the cost of acquisition. The aforesaid observations are relevant and are
equally applicable to the present controversy.
110\. It has been repeatedly held by Delhi High Court that advertisement
expenditure generally is not and should not be treated as capital expenditure
incurred or made for creating an intangible capital asset. Appropriate in this
regard would be to reproduce the observations in CIT v. Monto Motors Ltd.
[2012] 206 Taxman 43/19 taxmann.com 57 (Delhi), which read:-- "4. ...
Advertisement expenses when incurred to increase sales of products are usually
treated as a revenue expenditure, since the memory of purchasers or customers
is short. Advertisement are issued from time to time and the expenditure is
incurred periodically, so that the customers remain attracted and do not
forget the product and its qualities. The advertisements published/displayed
may not be of relevance or significance  57 after lapse of time in a highly
competitive market, wherein the products of different companies compete and
are available in abundance. Advertisements and sales promotion are conducted
to increase sale and their impact is limited and felt for a short duration. No
permanent character or advantage is achieved and is palpable, unless special
or specific factors are brought on record. Expenses for advertising consumer
products generally are a part of the process of profit earning and not in the
nature of capital outlay. The expenses in the present case were not incurred
once and for all, but were a periodical expenses which had to be incurred
continuously in view of the nature of the business. It was an on-going
expense. Given the factual matrix, it is difficult to hold that the expenses
were incurred for setting the profit earning machinery in motion or not for
earning profits." (Also see, CIT v. Spice Distribution Ltd. [2015] 229 Taxman
400/54 taxmann.com 325 (Delhi) by the Delhi High Court on 19th September,
2014; and CIT v. Salora International Ltd. [2009] 308 ITR 199
111\. Accepting the parameters of the 'bright line test' and if the said
parameters and tests are applied to Indian companies with reputed brands and
substantial AMP expenses, would lead to difficulty and unforeseen tax
implications and complications. Tata, Hero, Mahindra, TVS, Bajaj, Godrej,
Videocon group and several others are both manufacturers and owners of
intangible property in the form of brand names. They incur substantial AMP
expenditure. If we apply the 'bright line test' with reference to indicators
mentioned in paragraph 17.4 as well as the ratio expounded by the majority
judgment in L.G. Electronics India (P) Ltd case (supra) in paragraph 17.6 to
bifurcate and segregate AMP expenses towards brand building and creation, the
results would be startling and unacceptable. The same is the situation in case
we apply the parameters and the 'bright line test' in terms of paragraph 17.4
or as per the contention of the Revenue, i.e. AMP expenses incurred by a
distributor who does not have any right in the intangible brand value and the
product being marketed by him. This would be unrealistic and impracticable, if
not delusive and misleading. (Aforesaid reputed Indian companies, it is
patent, are not to be treated as comparables with the assessed, i.e. the
tested parties in these appeals, for the latter are not legal owners of the
brand name/trademark.)."
58
48\. Placing reliance on the above extracts of the Sony Ericsson decision
(supra), a coordinate bench of this Tribunal in PepsiCo (supra) held as below:
> "60. Thus, the Hon'ble High Court after describing the concept of the
> "brand" had made a clear cut demarcation between development and
> exploitation of brand which is either in the form of trademark or goodwill
> which takes place over a passage of time by which its value depends upon and
> is attributable to intangibles other than trademark like, infrastructure,
> knowhow, ability to compete in the established market, lease, etc. Brand
> value does not represent trademark as asset and it is quite difficult to
> determine and segregate its value. Brand value largely depends upon the
> nature of goods and services sold, after sales services, robust
> distributorship, quality control, customer satisfaction and catena of other
> factors. The advertisement is more telling about the brand story,
> penetrating the mind of the customers and constantly reminding about the
> brand, but it is not enough to create brand, because market value of a brand
> would depend upon how many customers you have, which has reference to a
> brand goodwill. There are instances where reputed brand does not go for
> advertisement with the intention to increase the brand value but to only
> increase the sale and thereby earning greater profits. It is also not the
> case here that foreign AE is in the business of sale/transfer of brands.
> Their Lordships have also referred to Accounting Standard 26 which provides
> for computation of goodwill and brand equal value at a point of time but not
> its future valuation or how such an intangible asset will generate probable
> future benefit. Because, the value fluctuates from one moment to other
> depending upon reputation and other factors. Reputation of a brand only
> enhances the sale and profitability and here in this case is only
> benefitting the assessee company when 86 marketing its products using the
> trade mark and the brand of AE. Even otherwise also, the value of the brand
> which has been created in India by the assessee company will only be
> relevant when at some point of time the foreign AE decides to sell the
> brand, then perhaps that would be the time when brand value will have some
> significance and relevance. But to make any transfer pricing adjustment
> simply on the ground that assessee has spent advertisement, marketing
> expenditure which is benefitting the brand/trademark of the AE would not be
> 59 correct approach. Thus, this line of reasoning given by the TPO is
> rejected."
49\. In PepsiCo (supra), this Tribunal, while examining the AMP issue examined
the implications of the recent developments in transfer pricing spearheaded by
OECD in its Base Erosion and Profit Shifting (BEPS) project and observed as
below:
> "61. Further in the final report of Action 8-10 of Base Erosion and Profit
> Shifting Project (BEPS) of OECD titled as "Aligning Transfer Pricing
> Outcomes with Value Creation'. It has been suggested that no adjustment is
> required on AMP expenditure incurred by full-fledged manufacturers. The
> report contains various examples pertaining to manufacturer. The following
> passage from the report is quite relevant which for the sake of ready
> reference is quoted hereinbelow:
> "6.40 The legal owner will be considered to be the owner of the intangible
> for transfer pricing purposes. If no legal owner of the intangible is
> identified under applicable law or governing contracts, then the member of
> the MNE group that, based on the facts and circumstances, controls decisions
> concerning the exploitation of the intangible and has the practical capacity
> to restrict others from using the intangible will be considered the legal
> owner of the intangible for transfer pricing purposes.
> 6.41 In identifying the legal owner of intangibles, an intangible and any
> licence relating to that intangible are considered to be 87 different
> intangibles for transfer pricing purposes, each having a different owner.
> See paragraph 6.26. For example, Company A, the legal owner of a trademark,
> may provide an exclusive licence to Company B to manufacture, market, and
> sell goods using the trademark. One intangible, the trademark, is legally
> owned by Company A. Another intangible, the licence to use the trademark in
> connection with manufacturing, marketing and distribution of trademarked
> products, is legally owned by Company B. Depending on the facts and
> circumstances, marketing activities undertaken by Company B pursuant to its
> licence may potentially affect the value of the underlying intangible
> legally owned by Company A, the value of Company B's licence, or both.
60
> 6.42 While determining legal ownership and contractual arrangements is an
> important first step in the analysis, these determinations are separate and
> distinct from the question of remuneration under the arm's length principle.
> For transfer pricing purposes, legal ownership of intangibles, by itself,
> does not confer any right ultimately to retain returns derived by the MNE
> group from exploiting the intangible, even though such returns may initially
> accrue to the legal owner as a result of its legal or contractual right to
> exploit the intangible. The return ultimately retained by or attributed to
> the legal owner depends upon the functions it performs, the assets it uses,
> and the risks it assumes, and upon the contributions made by other MNE group
> members through their functions performed, assets used, and risks assumed.
> For example, in the case of an internally developed intangible, if the legal
> owner performs no relevant 88 functions, uses no relevant assets, and
> assumes no relevant risks, but acts solely as a title holding entity, the
> legal owner will not ultimately be entitled to any portion of the return
> derived by the MNE group from the exploitation of the intangible other than
> arm's length compensation, if any, for holding title."
> From the above quoted passage, it can be seen that the guidelines clearly
> envisage that legal ownership of intangibles, by itself, does not confer any
> right ultimately to retain returns derived by MNE group from exploiting the
> intangibles, even though such returns is initially accruing to the legal
> owner as a result of its legal/contractual right to exploit the intangible.
> The return depends upon the functions performed by the legal owner, assets
> it uses, and the risks assumed; and if the legal owner does not perform any
> relevant function, uses no relevant assets, and assumes no relevant risks,
> but acts solely as a title holding entity, then the legal owner of the
> intangible will not be entitled to any portion of the return derived by the
> MNE group from the exploitation of the intangible other than the Arm's
> Length compensation if any for holding the title."
50\. In view of the above, we hold that in case of licensed manufacturers like
the appellant who bear the full risks and rewards of manufacturing and selling
their goods in the Indian market, the concept of brand promotion being for the
benefit of the AE has no application at all. As regards brand building
expenses  61 incurred by a distributor who does not own the brand, the same
needs to be examined from a long-term perspective whereby the ability of the
distributor to recover the advertising costs by way of increased sales for a
reasonable period of time is to be judged. Once a distributor arrangement in
place for a fairly long period of time (as in the present situation where the
assessee is the distributor of "Samsung" products in India), expenses on
advertising cannot be subjected to a stand-alone analysis as a "service" to
its AE on a year to year basis. This question of compensating an Indian
distributor would arise only if the parties prematurely terminate the
distributorarrangement. In such an event, if the Indian distributor has been
deprived of the opportunity of recovering its investment in AMP, it could be a
valid reason for a transfer pricing adjustment because third parties would not
agree to a premature termination of this kind without demanding compensation.
Therefore, the question of compensating the taxpayer for any loss suffered due
to excess AMP spend would arise only at the time of such premature termination
and not during the pendency of the distributorship arrangement. Thus, in case
of a routine distributor, disallowance/adjustment on account of AMP spend on
the mere assumption that the supplier may terminate the agreement in the
future is not sustainable. A taxpayer cannot be penalized on the presumption
of a future event (which may not even occur) while ignoring the present facts
and circumstances. It is also worthwhile to note that in the present case, the
assessee has not paid any trade-mark or brand royalty to its AE for having
used its brand.
51\. Next issue before us is:
62
> Whether it is permissible for the TPO to make a substantive and protective
> assessment on the same issue using two alternative approaches?
It is settled law that protective addition along with substantive addition of
an item of income can be made only when the identity of the real owner of the
income is unclear. The following observations made by the coordinate bench in
MSD Pharmaceuticals Pvt. Ltd. (supra) make this amply clear: "The very concept
of protective addition is relevant only when an income is to be added in the
hands of more than one taxpayer, in a situation in which there is an element
of ambiguity as to in whose hands the said income can be rightly brought to
tax. That's not the case before us. In our humble understanding, therefore,
the concept of 'protective assessment', as is known to the income tax law, has
no application in the cases like the one before us."
52\. The last issue before us is:
> If AMP expenditure incurred by the Appellant is held to be an international
> transaction, can it include selling costs within its ambit? Further, would
> the Appellant be eligible to receive a mark-up on the AMP expenditure to
> capture the arm's return on the cost?
Since we have held that there is no international transaction in the nature of
AMP expenditure which needs to be subjected to Chapter X analysis, these
issues are rendered infructuous and academic.
53\. Thus, in view of our finding given above we hold that, no adjustment can
be made in the case of the appellant on account of AMP expenses and same is
directed to be deleted.
OTHER GROUNDS IN ITA No. 3248/DEL/2012)AY 2005-06  63 GROUND NO. 4: The CIT
has erred in not appreciating that no adjustment is warranted in respect of
transactions undertaken by the appellant with its AEs in Class II segment
since the underlying difference between the transfer price and arm's length
price does not exceed 5% of the latter and thus, the case is squarely covered
by the proviso to section 92C (2) of the Act.
54\. In respect of Class II (Distribution of consumer electronics, home
appliances and other IT and Telecom Products) segment, the Appellant had
adopted Resale Price Method (RPM) and had chosen 5 comparables in its transfer
pricing documentation with a mean margin of 6.45%. The Ld. TPO rejected RPM
and chose TNMM as the most appropriate method. Further, the TPO also altered
the set of comparables and adopted a set 13 comparables with a mean net profit
margin of (-) 0.447%. The TPO also computed the net profit margin of the
Appellant after giving effect to the MDF expenditure treatment to -3.50%. On
appeal, the Ld. CIT (A) rejected 2 of TPOs comparables namely Control Print
Ltd. and Gemini Communication Ltd. and applied current year data on the
remaining comparables. The mean margin of the remaining comparables came to
0.38% as against 0.21% of the Appellant (after treating reimbursement for
advertisement expenses as operating expense). The Ld. CIT (A) accordingly
concluded that an adjustment of Rs. 3.3 crores is required to be done because
the difference between ALP and the transfer price exceeds 5% of the ALP. The
Ld. Counsel for the appellant submitted that the Ld. CIT (A) erred in making
an incorrect calculation in this regard. The difference between the ALP and
transfer price is within the permissible 5% range as shown in the computation
below:
          Particulars               Reference        Amount (in Rs.)
          Sales                     A                19,431,647,242
          AE costs                  B                9,205,413,953
                                                                     64
          Third Party costs          C             10,184,978,943
          Total costs                D= B+C        19,390,392,896
          Operating profit           E= A-D        41,254,346
          Appellant's OP/Sales       F= E/A        0.21%
          Arm's length OP/Sales      G             0.38%
          Arm's Length OP            H=A*G         73,840,260
          Shortfall in Appellant's   I=H-E         32,585,913
          OP
          Arm's length AE costs      J=B-I         9,172,828,040
          105% of Arm's length       K=J*1.05      9,631,469,442
          AE costs
          TP adjustment (if any)     L=B-K         Nil
55\. The Ld. Counsel submitted that no adjustment to the ALP could be made as
under the Proviso to Section 92C(3), if the difference between the price
recorded in the books and the ALP determined was less than 5%, no adjustment
could be made. The Ld. CIT (DR) relied on the orders of the TPO and the
CIT(A).
55\. In view of the details submitted by the assessee which have not been
disputed or controverted by the Ld. CIT(DR), it is apparent that by applying
the permissible 5% margin under the second Proviso to Section 92C(2), no
adjustment is warranted. Accordingly, this ground is allowed and the
adjustment made by the Ld. CIT (A) is directed to be deleted.
56\. GROUND NO. 5: This Ground has not been pressed by the assessee and is
accordingly dismissed.
GROUNDS IN DEPARTMENT'S APPEAL (ITA No. 3410/Del/12) FOR AY 2005-06 GROUND NO.
1: The Ld. CIT (A) has erred in excluding certain comparables while
benchmarking international transactions  65 under Class I - Manufacturing and
Class II - Distribution Segment.
57\. The Assessee is engaged in manufacturing of consumer electronics, home
appliances &colour monitors (known as Class I- Manufacturing segment) which
includes the import of raw materials, import of spare parts, export of
finished goods, purchase of samples and purchase of sales promotion material.
In the TP Study, the Assessee selected 11 comparables. The TPO proceeded to
undertake a fresh analysis and arrived at a fresh set of comparables by
accepting certain comparables of the Assessee and introducing certain new
comparables. The comparables which were introduced by the TPO and thereafter
rejected by the CIT (A) are under challenge by the Department in its appeal.
The Department's appeal is in respect of two comparables, namely, Videocon
Industries Ltd. and Samtel Colour Ltd.
58\. Videocon Industries Ltd (Class I- Manufacturing): The company was
included by the Ld. TPO in the final list of comparables by merely relying on
its predecessor's order for AY 2004-05. On appeal by the Assessee, the Ld.
CIT(A) excluded this comparable by relying on its predecessor's order for AY
2004-05 wherein it was held that the company is engaged in backward
integration and indigenous manufacturing of components, hence it cannot be
treated as an appropriate comparable.
59\. Being aggrieved by the CIT (A)'s order, the Department is in appeal
asking for inclusion of this comparable. The Ld. CIT (DR) argued that under
TNMM broad level of function and product similarity is mandated and this
company is engaged in manufacturing which is also the function of the tested
party. He  66 vehemently argued that product similarity may not be exact and
as long as there is a broad level of similarity, comparables should be
accepted. In this case, he submitted that components of colour TVs are being
manufactured by this comparable, which falls under the broad category of
consumer goods. He also argued that prior years precedents should not be
applied to questions of fact.
60\. The Ld. counsel for the Assessee while supporting the order of the CIT
(A) submitted that the company should not be taken as a comparable due to
following reasons:
(a) Videocon did not form a part of SIEL's TP Study and the same was included
by the TPO by merely relying on its own order for AY 2004-05 without
conducting any functional analysis.
(b) It may be noted that Videocon was excluded as a comparable by CIT (A) in
AYs 2003-04 and 2004-05 as well. Also, the Department did not file an appeal
on this issue against the order of the CIT (A) for AY 2004-05. There is no
change in the facts and circumstances of the case from AY 2004-05 and AY
2005-06. The functional description of this company and that of the appellant
has remained the same and hence the decision of the prior year should be
followed.
(c) The company is engaged in backward integration and indigenous
manufacturing of components (glass shells) and derives sizeable portion of
income from manufacture of glass shells, funnels and panels which are used in
manufacturing of colour TV. Videocon enjoys cost benefits due to captive
manufacturing of CTV shells. The Ld. Counsel relied on the decision of this
Tribunal in the case of Sony India P. LTD V DCIT [2008] 114 ITD 448 (Del) in
this regard where on similar facts Videocon was held to be incomparable to
Sony  67 India, a company that was engaged in the manufacture of TVs and other
consumer goods, on the ground that it undertakes manufacturing of components
for CTV units which renders it functionally incomparable to companies which
import the same parts.
61\. We have analyzed the functional and product profile of Videocon and find
that it is a component manufacturer, whereas the assessee's manufactured goods
are in the category of finished goods. Though the components like glass shells
and funnels are components of TV sets which are manufactured by the assessee,
it would be wholly inappropriate to treat the two as comparables under TNMM as
they operate in entirely different sectors. While components are sold to OEMs,
finished goods are sold to end- customers and face entirely diverse market
risks and dynamics. Furthermore, in the prior years this comparable has been
rejected in first appeal by the CIT (A) and no appeal was preferred against
the same. It is important to maintain consistency if there is no change in
facts. We also note that the coordinate Bench has, under similar facts,
examined the appropriateness of this comparable in Sony India (supra) and held
it to be inappropriate. In view of the above, we dismiss this ground of appeal
and hold that Videocon has been rightly excluded by the CIT (A) from the list
of comparables.
62\. Samtel Colour Limited (Class I- Manufacturing): Samtel was introduced by
the Ld. TPO in the final list of comparables by merely relying on its
predecessor's order for AY 2004-05. The company operates in only one segment
i.e. manufacture of colour  68 picture tubes and electron gun. It has a
Related Party Transaction (RPT) as a percentage of sales of 23.85%.
63\. On appeal by the Assessee, the Ld. CIT (A) relied on the decisions of
Sony India (supra) and Avaya India Pvt. Ltd (ITA No. 5150/Del/2010) wherein it
was held that companies having more than 15% RPT should not be taken as
comparable. Even for AY 2004-05, in Assessee's own case, Khaitan Electricals
Ltd was excluded as it had RPT in excess of 15%. Based on above, Ld. CIT (A)
excluded Samtel as a comparable.
64\. Being aggrieved by the CIT (A)'s order, the Department is in appeal
before this Tribunal for inclusion of this comparable. It is the Department's
contention that RPT filter should be 25% instead of 15% as it is a reasonable
threshold for comparability. The Ld. CIT (DR), further submitted that the
Tribunal in numerous decisions has approved a 25% threshold and the same
should be followed in this case as well.
65\. The Ld. Counsel for the Assessee submitted that the company should not be
taken as a comparable on the ground of consistency as the TPO in subsequent
year i.e. AY 2006-07 has himself excluded companies having RPT in excess of
15%. Further, even after applying RPT filter of 15%, if sufficient number of
comparable companies are available for determination of arm's length price,
then such tolerance limit is proper.The Ld. Counsel for the Assessee placed
reliance on LSI Technologies India Private Limited vs. ITO (IT (TP)A Nos.1380
& 1381/Bang/ 2010) and Textron India Pvt. Ltd. v. DCIT
(IT(TP)ANo.1228/Bang/2010, etc).
69
66\. We have heard the parties and also perused the relevant finding and the
material referred to before us. The exercise of determination of arm's length
price u/s 92 of the Act entails finding comparable uncontrolled
transactions/entities for the purpose of comparison. If the levels of related
party transactions are higher the "uncontrolled" nature of the comparable
transaction or entity is diluted and the comparability is compromised.
Therefore, in principle, lower the level of RPT, more accurate the result is
likely to be. However, if sufficient number of comparables is not available
due to paucity of data or comparables, the RPT threshold may have to be
relaxed upwards for reasons of practicality. However, in situations where
sufficient numbers of comparables are available by applying a lower threshold,
the same should be preferred as the results are likely to be more accurate.
The same view has been expressed by the coordinate Bench in the case of
Motorola Solutions India Pvt. Ltd.[2014] 35 ITR(T) 546 (Delhi - Trib.) We
accordingly hold that since in the given situation sufficient numbers of
comparables are available even by following the lower level of threshold of
15%, the same should be followed. This ground is accordingly dismissed and the
order of the Ld. CIT (A) is upheld.
67\. Now we come to Class II-, which is DISTRIBUTION SEGMENT: The Assessee is
engaged in distribution of consumer electronics, home appliances, colour
monitors and other IT & Telecom products (known as Class II- Distribution
segment) which includes import of finished goods, import of spare parts,
export of spare parts, purchase of samples, export of samples, payment for
packing & R&D expenses, purchase of sales promotion material. In  70 the TP
Study, the Assessee selected 5 comparables. The TPO proceeded to undertake a
fresh analysis and arrived at a fresh set of comparables. He accepted some of
the comparables of the Assessee but also introduced 8 new comparables. Some of
the comparables which were introduced by the TPO were thereafter rejected by
the CIT (A) and the same are under challenge by the Department in its appeal
as under. Ld. CIT (DR) submitted that the Revenue is aggrieved in respect of
two comparables, namely Control Print (India) Ltd. and Gemini Communications
Ltd.
68\. Control Print (India) Limited (Class II- Distribution): This comparable
was introduced by the Ld. TPO in the final list of comparables by merely
relying on his predecessor's order for AY 2004-05. The company operates in
only one segment and is engaged in coding, marking systems and development of
digital printing systems for various markets & applications including
packaging applications, specialty industrial applications, textile printing
and security printing.
69\. On appeal by the Assessee, the Ld. CIT (A) excluded this comparable by
relying on his predecessor's order for AY 2004-05 wherein it was held that the
company's functional/business profile of the company vis-à-vis the Assessee is
dissimilar.
70\. The Ld. CIT (DR) submits that the company has been taken as a comparable
after conducting a detailed functional analysis and is functionally similar to
the appellant. He emphasized that under TNMM broad level of product similarity
is required and some degree of divergence is acceptable both in respect of
product difference and functional difference.
71
71\. The Ld. Counsel for the Assessee submitted that the company should not be
taken as a comparable due to following reasons:
(a) ________________________________ The same was included by the TPO by
merely relying on his own order for AY 2004- 05 without conducting any
functional analysis. This was excluded as a comparable by CIT(A) in AY 2004-05
as well. And the Department did not file an appeal on this issue against the
order of the CIT(A) for AY 2004-05.
(b) ________________________________ The company is not a trader but a
manufacturer cum assembler of solvents, ink- rolls, coding machines. It has a
completely different functional profile as it is engaged manufacturing of
marking and coding machines. Not only the activity is different, the products
are also completely dissimilar.
72\. We have perused the Annual Report of this company and we find that this
company is engaged in manufacturing activity. The products are also very
dissimilar to those traded by the assessee in its Class II segment. The
financials of this company state that it has a single segment comprising of,
"Coding and Marking Machines and Consumables thereof". It is quite obvious
that this comparable is wholly unfit to be chosen as a comparable to the
trading segment of the assessee as it is functionally dissimilar. In A.Y
2004-05, this comparable was ordered to be removed by the CIT (A) and no
appeal was filed against his order. In these circumstances, we hold that the
Ld. CIT (A)'s order in this regard is correct and justified and does not
warrant any interference.
72
73\. Gemini Communications Limited (Class II- Distribution): The Ld. TPO
included this comparable by merely relying on its predecessor's order for AY
2004-05. The Ld. CIT (A) excluded this comparable by relying on his
predecessor's order for AY 2004-05 wherein it was held that the
functional/business profile of the company vis-à-vis the Assessee is
dissimilar. It is a full-fledged and end-to-end IT solutions and service
provider unlike the Assessee which is engaged in distribution operations only.
74\. Before us, the CIT (DR) submits that the company has been taken as a
comparable after conducting a detailed functional analysis and is similar to
the appellant in several material respects.
75\. The Ld. Counsel for the Assessee while supporting the order of the CIT
(A) submitted that the company should not be taken as a comparable due to
following reasons:
(a) ________________________________ Gemini is engaged in the business of
providing solutions on networking and communications with products of
companies like Cisco, Nortel, Avaya, etc.
(b) ________________________________ The same was excluded by the CIT (A) for
AY 2004-05 but the Department did not file an appeal on this issue. Since,
Department has accepted it as a comparable in one year, it cannot change its
stand and challenge it in the subsequent year, if there is no change in the
facts and circumstances of the case.
(c) ________________________________ Further, the major products dealt by it
are 'communication equipment' and its major source of revenue is sale of
network products as well  73 as network service solutions. It is a leading
networking solutions and technical service provider.
76\. We have perused the orders of the lower authorities and the Annual Report
of this company. We find that this company is a leading networking solutions
service provider. As part of the networking solutions it provides to its
clients, it sells communication equipment as well. The solutions comprise of
LAN and WAN designs, ITeS consulting solutions, data center design solutions,
security consulting solutions etc. Entire revenue has been reported under a
single segment of network products and services. These facts show that the CIT
(A) has rightly ordered its exclusion on account of functional dissimilarity.
The assessee in its Class II segment is engaged in pure trading/distribution
of consumer electronics, home appliances, monitors and other products. The
factors of comparability provided in Rule 10B (2) are not satisfied at all and
accordingly we hold that the Ld. CIT (A) has rightly ordered its exclusion.
GROUND NO. 2: DISALLOWANCE OF EXPENDITURE ON RECRUITMENT AND TRAINING
77\. The Ld. Counsel submitted that the said issue is covered by decision of
Hon'ble Delhi High Court in Assessee's own case for AY 1999-2000, 2002-03 and
AY 2003-04 wherein the Delhi High Court affirmed the decision of this ITAT of
allowing the deduction of expenditure incurred on recruitment and training of
employees. The Ld. AO erred in treating it as a deferred revenue expenditure
on the assumption that recruitment expenses will result in long term benefit.
He failed to appreciate that such expenditure was revenue in nature, incurred
for the purpose of business and  74 therefore allowable under section 37(1) of
the Act. Ld. CIT (DR) relied on the order of the CIT (A).
78\. It has now been settled that recruitment and training expenses have to be
treated as revenue expenditure and cannot be seen as leading to enduring
benefit warranting any disallowance. We observe that similar disallowances
were made in the prior years as well which have been deleted in appeal. The
issue travelled up to the High Court and the Hon'ble Delhi High Court has
affirmed the view taken by this Tribunal that these expenses are allowable in
full in the year in which it is incurred. Orders dated 9.06.2013 and
15.05.2017 in the appeals for A.Yrs 1999- 2000 and 2003-04 respectively of the
Delhi High Court have been placed before us. Respectfully following the
decision of the Delhi High Court we dismiss this ground of appeal.
AY 2006-07 (ITA No. 5856/DEL/10)
79\. The facts and business model in the present Assessment Year i.e. 2006-07
are similar to the facts already stated for AY 2005-06. The appellant had
filed its return of income on November 29, 2006, declaring an income of Rs.
36,26,44,434. A summary of the international transactions and the appellant's
approach in determining their ALP is given in the table below:
       Particulars        Most       Profit    Margin      No. of  Arm's
                      Appropriate Level       earned by   compar  Length
                       Method as Indicat         the       ables  Margin
                         per TP     or (PLI) Appellant as consid as per TP
                         study       as per    per TP     ered as  study
                                       TP       study     per TP
                                     study                 study
    Class I -         Transactional OP/OR       2.22%        6     2.52%
    Manufacturing      Net Margin
    (Consumer            Method
                                                                      75
       Particulars           Most     Profit    Margin      No. of  Arm's
                         Appropriate Level     earned by   compar  Length
                          Method as Indicat       the       ables  Margin
per TP or (PLI) Appellant as consid as per TP study as per per TP ered as
study TP study per TP study study Electronics, and ("TNMM") Home Appliances)
Import of raw materials, Import of stores and service parts, export of
finished goods, payment of royalty, import of fixed assets Class II - Trading
Resale Price Gross 24.78% 12 23.16% (Consumer Margin Profit Electronics, and
("RPM") Margin Home ("GPM") Appliances) Import of finished goods, import of
stores and service parts, export of finished goods, payment of royalty, import
of fixed Assets Class III - TNMM OP/OR 6.80 5 2.29% Manufacturing (Color
Monitors) Import of raw materials, import of stores and service parts, export
of finished goods, import of fixed Assets Class IV - RPM GPM 10.15% 9 8.69%
Trading (Color Monitors and other IT products) import of finished goods,
import of  76 Particulars Most Profit Margin No. of Arm's Appropriate Level
earned by compar Length Method as Indicat the ables Margin per TP or (PLI)
Appellant as consid as per TP study as per per TP ered as study TP study per
TP study study stores and service spares, service income from hand held phones
80\. The dispute in the present appeal (ITA No. 5856/DEL/2010) filed by the
appellant pertains to the international transactions grouped under Class-I and
Class-III (manufacturing) segment and Class-II and Class-IV (trading)
segments. There is no dispute with respect to Class V (contract software
development and reimbursement of expenses) transactions.
81\. In Class-I (manufacturing segment) the appellant was engaged in the
manufacturing of consumer electronic goods and home appliances and in Class-
III (manufacturing segment), the appellant was engaged in the manufacturing of
colour monitors. Transactional Net Margin Method was chosen as the most
appropriate method in its transfer pricing study for both these segments. The
profit level indicator taken was operating profit/operating revenue. For the
benchmarking exercise in Class-I and Class-III segments, an economic analysis
was carried out in the TP study leading to identification of 6 and 5
uncontrolled comparable companies respectively. Since the appellant had earned
profit margin of 2.22% and 6.8% in the Class-I and Class- III segments
respectively which was within the ± 5% range of the profit margin earned by
the comparables, it was concluded that the international transactions were at
arm's length.
77
82\. In Class-II (trading segment), the appellant was engaged in the trading
of consumer electronic goods and home appliances and in Class-IV (trading
segment), the appellant was engaged in the trading of colour monitors and
other IT products. For Class-II and Class-IV segments, Resale Price Method
(RPM) was chosen as the most appropriate method to determine the ALP with
Gross Profit margin (gross profit /sales) as the profit level indicator. The
economic analysis carried out in the TP Study for Class-II and Class-IV
segments resulted in identification of 12 and 9 uncontrolled independent
comparable companies respectively. Since the appellant had earned gross profit
margin of 24.78% and 10.15% in the Class-II and Class-IV segments respectively
which was higher than the profit margin earned by the comparables, it was
concluded that the international transactions were at arm's length.
83\. The TPO rejected the most appropriate method adopted by the assessee. He
discarded the Resale Price Method for Class-II (trading) and Class-IV
(trading) segment. As per the TPO, for both the segments Transactional Net
Margin Method (TNMM) was the most suitable method for determining of arm's
length price. Under TNMM he selected operating profit margin on revenues
(OP/OR; OP = operating profit/ OR = operating revenue) as the profit level
indicator for both the segments. Further, the TPO while computing the profit
level indicator of the appellant for manufacturing and trading segments
increased the quantum of operating expenditure taken into account to increase
the operating profit by Rs. 86.22crores. The aforesaid amount of Rs. 86.22
crores had been received by the appellant during the relevant financial year
from its parent company as a reimbursement under an assistance  78 agreement
referred to as Marketing Development Fund (MDF) agreement. In terms of MDF
agreement, as in prior years, the appellant had received the assistance from
its parent company to conduct certain predefined marketing activities. This
amount has been shown as reimbursement in the Form 3CEB and the transfer
pricing study and was reduced from the expenditure shown under the head
"advertisement". Accordingly, in the profit and loss account of the financial
statement under head "advertisement" expenditure only the net amount was
shown. Though the gross amount expended for advertisement was Rs 229.84
crores, on account of reimbursement received of Rs. 86.22crores, the net
amount of Rs. 229.84-Rs.86.22 crores = 143.61 crores was shown as the net
advertisement expenditure. The TPO concluded that this was an erroneous
approach and was of the view that the entire amount of Rs. 229.84 crores
incurred under the head "advertisement" should be taken into account to
compute operating profit and the operating profit margin. This approach and
calculation of the TPO was based on a similar approach adopted in the prior
assessment years. Accordingly, while the operating expenditure under the head
advertisement was increased from Rs. 143.61 crores to Rs. 229.84 crores
leading to fall in operating profit and margin, the corresponding
reimbursement of Rs. 86.22 crores received from the appellant's parent company
was not included as part of the revenue. Based on this approach, the operating
profit margin (OP/OR) of Class-I and Class-III manufacturing segments was
determined at (-) 0.16% and 4.42% respectively. Further, the operating profit
margin (OP/OR) of Class-II and Class-IV trading segments was determined at (-)
1.94% and (-) 3.36% respectively.
79
84\. The TPO further proceeded to undertake a fresh benchmarking analysis of
the uncontrolled comparable companies and arrived at a set of 5 comparable
companies for the Class-I manufacturing segment, 3 comparables for the Class-
II trading segment and 11 comparables for Class-IV trading segments. The
arithmetic mean of the operating profit margin (OP/OR) of these comparables
for the Class-I manufacturing segment was computed at 2.74%. Similarly, the
profit margin of the comparables in the Class-II and Class-IV trading segments
were carried out at 2.45% and 1.61% respectively. To compute profit level
indicators of the comparable companies, the TPO used multiple years' data
(current and two previous years to the extent of availability of data). The
margins computed by the TPO are after making adjustments on account of working
capital differences
85\. Based on the above approach, the TPO worked out an adjustment to the
arm's length price of the international transactions pertaining to Class-I
manufacturing segment at Rs. 439,163,419/-. In respect of Class-II and Class-
IV trading segments, the adjustment to the arm's length was worked out to be
at Rs. 509,049,110 and Rs. 300,466,885 respectively. There was no adjustment
made to the Class III and Class V segments.
86\. The AO incorporated the adjustment to the ALP made by the TPO and also
made the following additions to total income:
(a) ________________________________ Recruitment and training expense of Rs.
1,03,07,792 was treated as capital expenditure and not allowable as a revenue
expenditure u/s 37 of the Act;
80
(b) ________________________________ Depreciation on UPS, printers and servers
was restricted to 15% as against 60% claimed by the appellant leading to a
disallowance of Rs. 7,72,086.
87\. The assessee being aggrieved by the orders of the TPO and AO filed
objections before the DRP, New Delhi contesting the aforesaid additions made
to the total income of the assessee on various grounds. The Ld. DRP disposed
off the objections filed by the assessee vide its directions under section
144C of the Income Tax Act, 1961 30th September 2010 and upheld the order of
the TPO/AO.
88\. In pursuance to the DRP Directions, the AO passed the final assessment
order dated 19th October 2010. Aggrieved by the order of the AO (impugned
order), the assessee has preferred the present appeal and has prayed for
adjudication of the following grounds of appeal.
GROUNDS IN APPELLANT'S APPEAL (ITA No. 5856/DEL/10) FOR AY 2006-07 GROUND NO.
1 & 2: These are general in nature.
GROUND NO. 3 & 4.1: These Grounds have not been pressed by the assessee. These
grounds are accordingly dismissed as not being pressed.
GROUND NO. 4.2: That on facts and in law, the TPO/AO has erred in rejecting
Voltas Limited as a comparable company for benchmarking the international
transactions under Class II (trading of consumer electronics and home
appliances segment)  81
89\. The Ld. TPO has rejected Voltas Ltd. on the sole ground that the company
is persistently making losses with declining net margins and the Ld. DRP has
upheld the Ld. TPO's reasoning. The Ld. Counsel for the Appellant submitted
that this comparable has been accepted by the Ld. TPO in AYs. 2004-05 and
2008-09. The Ld. Counsel submitted that Voltas has 4 segments i.e. Electro-
mechanical Projects and Services, Engineering Products and Services, Unitary
Cooling Products for Comfort and Commercial Use and Others. Voltas is not a
loss-making company on an entity level, rather, losses are suffered only in
one segment. However, the same segment is earning profits in future years and
the loss is only in the current financial year and immediately preceding
financial year. It has recorded a profit in the financial year 2003- 04 and
therefore it is factually incorrect to treat this company as a persistently
loss-making company. Under Rule 10B(4) data of current year and two
immediately prior years can be considered if the same has a bearing on the
profitability of the company. This Tribunal in numerous cases held that to
check whether a persistently loss company should be excluded, data of at least
three years (current plus two prior years) have to be seen.
90\. The Ld. Counsel argued that Voltas cannot be said to be categorized as a
persistently loss-making entity because persistent loss-making entities imply
that losses are suffered year after year leading to erosion of net worth. In
the present case, a company suffering losses only in two years cannot be said
to be persistent loss-making company. Further, it has been pointed out that
turnover of the company has increased over the years, and it had no intention
to close down its business and is in the market for the long run. The Ld.
Counsel contended that the courts have  82 consistently held that if a company
is functionally comparable, then it cannot be rejected merely on the basis
that it is making losses. In this regard, the Ld. Counsel places reliance on
the case laws below:
(a) ________________________________ In the cases of DCIT vs. Exxon Mobil
Company India Pvt. Ltd. (ITA No. 4389/Mum/2010)(Para 7) and Bobst India (P.)
Ltd. v. DCIT (ITA No. 1380 (PN) of 2010), it has been observed that exclusion
of a comparable merely on the ground that the comparable is incurring abnormal
profit margin or persistent losses without considering the applicable law
under Rule 10B of the Income Tax Rule, 1962 (Rules) is untenable under law;
(b) ________________________________ The Special Bench of Hon'ble Chandigarh
ITAT held in the case of DCIT vs. Quark Systems (P.) Ltd [2010] 38 SOT 307
(CHD.) (SB) that if a company is functionally comparable and the turnover does
not show declining trend, then merely on the basis that the comparable company
is incurring losses, the comparable cannot be excluded. The Hon'ble Ahmedabad
ITAT reiterated the above position by relying on Quark Systems supra in the
case of Erhardt+Leimer (India) Private Limited vs ACIT (ITA Nos. 3298/Ahd/2011
& 2880/Ahd/2012;
(c) ________________________________ In the case of Chryscapital Investment
Advisors (India) Pvt. Ltd. Vs. DCITDelhi)/[2015] 376 ITR 183 (Delhi), the
Hon'ble jurisdictional High Court reiterated the same position supra that it
is a settled law that comparables cannot be excluded  83 merely on the ground
that it is making abnormally high profits or losses.
91\. The Ld. Counsel further relying on 24/7 Customer.Com (P.) Ltd. v. DCIT
[2013] 21 ITR (Trib) 514 (Bangalore) submitted that when in a particular
assessment year, if Arithmetic Mean Method has been applied, comparables with
abnormal profits/losses cannot be excluded. This is for the reason that up
until April 1, 2014, Indian transfer pricing regulations followed the
Arithmetic Mean Method which took into account all comparables irrespective of
their margin variance and calculates the average of all comparables for
calculating the ALP. In contrast to this, post April 1, 2014, Indian transfer
pricing regulations now employ the Quartile Method wherein, the companies that
fall in the extreme quartiles (i.e. abnormally high profits/losses) get
excluded and only those that fall in the middle quartile are retained for
comparability. For the AY under consideration, Arithmetic Mean Method has been
applied and thus, comparables with higher profits/losses cannot be excluded.
92\. Further, the Ld. Counsel submitted that the exclusion of persistent loss-
making companies has been in the context of IT companies which is a booming
sector where the industry trend has been of growth and persistent losses is
not normal. However, this approach cannot be ipso facto extended to other
industries such as consumer electronics etc. which are very competitive
industries as is evident from the low margins of the comparable companies.
93\. The Ld. CIT (DR) relied vehemently on the orders of the Ld. TPO and DRP
and submitted that two years of continuous losses  84 demonstrated that the
company was in a downward trend and was experiencing a situation that was
different from that of the appellant. On account of the extraordinary
situation, this company cannot be taken as a comparable. The Ld. CIT (DR)
further submitted that the Tribunal in various decisions has upheld the
application of persistent loss making as a filter.
94\. We have perused the orders of the lower authorities and examined the
Annual Report of this company and seen the profitability trend as well. This
company is indisputably a functionally comparable company and therefore the
question that requires our consideration is whether it has shown persistent
losses and whether persistent losses can be a ground for excluding a
comparable. It is now settled that a mere loss-making or abnormally high
loss/profit making company cannot be excluded unless it can be shown that
extraordinary economic factors are present. It is also now settled that if a
company has been exhibiting persistent losses for a long period leading to
erosion of its net worth, it would be considered as facing an extraordinary
economic situation and as not being representative of the economy/sector in
which it operates. In the present facts we find that this comparable (Voltas)
has shown an operating loss only in the current year and one prior year (F.Y.
04-05). In the financial year 2003-04, it is stated to have earned a positive
profit margin of 4% in the relevant segment. It has also been contended that
its net worth has not been rendered negative and has shown consistent increase
in turnover from F.Y. 2003-04 onwards for five years in a row. In our view
while examining whether a company can be excluded on the ground of persistent
losses, a long term trend has to be seen and at least a period of 3 years
(current year and two  85 prior years) is mandatory under Rule 10B(4). This is
an exercise which has not been carried out by the TPO. We accordingly set
aside this matter to the file of the TPO to determine whether Voltas had shown
losses in the three years covered under Rule 10B (4) and whether its net worth
had been rendered negative. If both the conditions are found to have been met,
i.e., three years continuous losses leading to erosion of net worth, Voltas
would have to be excluded. If it is found to have failed either or both of the
conditions, it shall be retained as a comparable. While determining this, the
TPO shall take into account only that segment of Voltas which is comparable to
that of the assessee, i.e., cooling products. This ground is therefore
disposed off in terms of the above directions.
GROUND NO. 4.3: That on facts and in law, the TPO/AO has erred in considering
Bajaj Electricals Limited as a comparable company while applying the
transactional net margin method to benchmark the international transactions
under Class II (trading of consumer electronics and home appliances segment)
95\. The Ld. TPO has included this comparable on ground that it is
functionally similar and has been accepted as comparable by the Appellant in
FY 2004-05. The Ld. DRP has upheld the Ld. TPO's reasoning. The Ld. Counsel
for the Appellant submitted that Bajaj is engaged in manufacturing and
distribution of various lighting, consumer durables, galvanized structures and
other products. It has four segments as below:
• 'Lighting' includes Lamps, Tubes and Luminaries; • 'Consumer Durables'
includes Appliances & Fans;
86
• 'Engineering & Projects' includes Transmission Line Towers,
Telecommunications Towers, Highmast, Poles and Special Projects;
• 'Others' includes Die-casting and Wind Energy.
96\. The Ld. Counsel pointed out that the gross-profit margin of Appliance
products were computed from the product schedule and used for Resale Price
Method (RPM) computation in the TP report. However, when RPM was discarded in
favour of TNMM by the TPO, the net profit margin of the entire consumer
durables segment was selected for computation of net profit margin. It was
also pointed out by the Ld. Counsel that the assessee applied RPM for this
segment and computed the gross profit margin of the products appearing under
the head 'Appliances' in the product schedule of the Annual Report. In the
product schedule, there were two categories, appliances and fans in this
segment of consumer durable. The Ld. TPO has rejected RPM and has adopted TNMM
and used the net margin of the consumer durable segment which includes fans.
97\. The Ld. Counsel contended that the Ld. TPO has committed a gross error in
including the net profit margin derived from the manufacturing of fans as a
part of the segmental profit margin taken for benchmarking the assessee's
class II trading transaction.The Ld. Counsel has placed his reliance in this
respect on Adidas Technical Services (P.) Ltd. v. DCIT [2016] 69 taxmann.com
401 (Delhi - Trib.), wherein it was held that, where segmental data is not
available, the comparable is liable to be rejected.
87
98\. The Ld. CIT (DR) relied vehemently on the orders of the Ld. TPO and DRP
and submitted that the company was functionally comparable to the appellant
and was rightly included in the list of comparables by the Ld. TPO. He further
submitted that Bajaj Electricals was chosen by the assessee itself as a
comparable and it cannot now ask for its exclusion. The Ld. CIT (DR) further
submitted that fans as a product falls under the category of home appliances
and though the assessee is not trading in fans, it is engaged in trading of
other home appliances and under TNMM broad level of product similarity is
required.
99\. We have perused the order of the Ld. TPO and the DRP in this regard as
well as examined the Annual Report of Bajaj Electricals. While it is correct
that the assessee itself had selected Bajaj Electricals as a comparable, the
same was done under Resale Price Method which requires comparison at gross
profit level. Further, the assessee in its TP report had taken only the
"Appliances" category as a comparable category and had excluded the gross
profit margin earned from manufacturing of fans. Whereas, the TPO has
discarded RPM and has adopted TNMM which is a comparison of net profit margins
and the TPO has taken the net profit margin of the entire "consumer durable"
segment of Bajaj Electricals which includes both Appliances and Fans. Most
significantly the function in relation to fans in this segment is of
manufacturing and not trading. From the Annual Report, it emerges that during
the year, Bajaj Electricals had manufactured 537,000 pieces of fans. While the
consolidated sales quantity of fans has been given at 1,784,000, the segmental
break- up of manufactured fans and traded fans is not provided. In these  88
circumstances it is not possible to determine the net profit margin derived
from the sale of traded fans. We also note that the range of traded products
of the assessee does not include fans and is limited to consumer products like
Colour TVs, Air conditioners, Washing Machines, Microwave ovens and
refrigerators. We therefore order the exclusion of this comparable for
determination of ALP of the international transactions of the segment
pertaining to trading of consumer products of the assessee. This ground is
accordingly allowed.
GROUND NO. 4.4: That on facts and in law, the TPO/AO has erred in additionally
identifying Control Print Limited and Gemini Communications Limited as a
comparable company for benchmarking the international transactions under Class
IV (trading of colour monitors and other IT products)
100\. The Ld. Counsel pointed out that this issue has already been decided in
favour of the assessee by CIT (A) in prior years i.e. AY 2004-05 and 2005-06.
He pointed out that no appeal has been filed by the Department before the ITAT
on this issue in AY 2004-
05\. However, in AY 2005-06, the Department has filed an appeal on the same
issues and the same has been covered in the submissions for AY 2005-06. The
Ld. CIT (DR) relied on the orders of the Ld. TPO and DRP.
101\. While adjudicating the appeal filed by the Dept. for A.Y. 2005-06, we
have held that the Ld. CIT (A) was right in excluding these two comparables.
In this assessment year as well, we find that the facts and circumstances
relating to these two companies (Control Print and Gemini Communications)
remain the same. A perusal of their Annual Reports shows that their functional
and  89 product profile is unchanged. Control Print is a manufacturer of
coding and marking machines and Gemini Communications is engaged in providing
network solutions and as part of this exercise sells communication equipment.
In order to maintain consistency with the approach approved by us in the prior
year, in the absence of change of facts, we order the exclusion of these two
companies.
GROUND NO. 5:That on facts and in law, the TPO/AO has erred in law and facts
by grossing up the advertisement and sales promotion expenses and not
including the advertising reimbursements as part of income received by the
appellant from its associated enterprises while computing the operating
margins of the respective segments
102\. The Ld. Counsel for the Appellant contends that the Ld. DRP has merely
stated that the reasons given by the TPO in his order are correct and has
failed to take into account the decision rendered by Hon'ble ITAT in the case
of Sony India Private Limited 114 ITD 448 on this issue. The Ld. Counsel
pointed out that after the Ld. DRP issued its directions, the Hon'ble ITAT
rendered a decision on this issue in favour of the assessee in its own case
for AY 2002-03 to 2004-05 wherein it was held that the assessee has a prior
agreement for reimbursement of specific AMP expenses and genuineness or bona
fide of the said agreement cannot be disputed. Further, it was held that based
on evidence on record, the recoveries directly correspond to actual expenses
incurred by the assessee and such expenditure was incurred in line with terms
of aforesaid agreement.
103 Further, the CIT(A), in AY 2005-06 (as well as in the earlier years),
based on merits of the case and placing reliance on ITAT  90 judgment in case
of Sony India (P) Ltd supra decided the matter in favour of the assessee by
treating AMP recovery as operating income at para no. 105.4 of the said order.
It has been submitted that it has clearly been held that the prior agreement
provided for reimbursement of specific AMP expenses and genuineness or bona
fide of the agreement cannot be questioned. Also, there are evidences on
record to prove that the expenses directly correspond to actual expenses
incurred. The Ld. Counsel contends that the issue stands squarely covered in
favour of the Appellant in its own case for three prior years by this Hon'ble
ITAT.
104\. Ld. DR argued that the Marketing Development Fund entered into by the
appellant with its AE was for promotion of brand of the AE in India. Thus,
action of the Ld. TPO of making an addition by treating AMP recovery as non-
operating income and including the same as part of the operating expenses was
correct. He also placed reliance on the DRP order wherein the DRP has upheld
the action taken by the Ld. TPO on the same reasoning.
105\. We have perused the orders of the TPO and the DRP as well as the
appellate orders passed by this Tribunal on this issue in the prior years. We
observe that a coordinate Bench of this Tribunal while deciding the appeals of
the Appellant-assessee in A.Yrs 2002-03, 2003-04, 2004-05 has examined this
issue in detail and has concluded that the approach of the TPO to treat the
reimbursement received under the MDF agreement as non- operating income while
treating the same as operating expenditure for computing the net profit margin
is unjustified and contrary to law and principles of transfer pricing. In A.Y.
2005-06 as well, the TPO had adopted a similar approach which was held to be
91 impermissible by the CIT (A). No appeal was preferred by the Revenue before
the Tribunal in respect of this issue. Respectfully following the orders of
the Coordinate Bench on this issue, we hold that reimbursements received by
the Appellant from its AE under the MDF agreement has to be taken into account
both as operating income as well as operating expenditure while computing the
net profit margin under TNMM analysis. This ground is therefore allowed.
GROUND NO. 6:That on facts and in law, the TPO/AO has erred in not restricting
the transfer pricing adjustment in proportion to the value of impugned
international transactions with the associated enterprise vis-à-vis the total
cost base of the various business segments which included the cost of
uncontrolled transactions with independent third parties also.
106\. The Ld. Counsel argued that the Ld. TPO erred in not granting the
proportionate adjustment to the Appellant. It is settled law that the
adjustment is to be made only on international transactions and not on other
unrelated transactions. He placed reliance on the following case laws for
grant of proportionate adjustment:
(a) ________________________________ IL Jin Electronics (I) (P.) Ltd. v. ACIT
ITA NO. 438/DEL/2008, [2010] 36 SOT 227 DELHI) (para 15)
(b) ________________________________ CIT v. Keihin Panalfa Ltd. ITA No. 11 and
12/2015 (Del HC) (para 12)
(c) ________________________________ CIT v. Thyssen Krupp Industries India
(P.) Ltd. ITA No. 2201 OF 2013, [2016] 381 ITR 413 (Bombay) (paras 3 and 4)
92
(d) ________________________________ Tasty Bite Eatables Ltd.
v. ACIT ITA NO. 1682/PN/2011 (para 37)
107\. Ld. CIT (DR) relied on the order of Ld. TPO and DRP and contended that
proportionate adjustment should not be given to the Appellant. Ld. TPO has
allowed proportionate adjustment in AY 2014-15 & AY 2015-16.
108\. It is now well settled that the transfer pricing exercise is strictly
limited to the transactions with AEs and transactions with unrelated parties
do not come within its ambit. It has also been brought to our notice that in
A.Y. 2013-14 the DRP itself has issued directions to the TPO to confine the
adjustments to the proportionate value of the international transactions with
AEs. Accordingly, the TPO is directed to restrict the amount of adjustment, if
any, made under Chapter X of the Act limited and proportionate to the value of
the international transactions with AEs.
GROUND NO. 7: As this Ground has not been pressed by the assessee, it is
dismissed.
GROUND NO. 7.1:That on facts and in law, the AO has erred in holding that the
benefit of expenditure on recruitment and training of employees is not
restricted to one year and accordingly has to be apportioned over 6 years,
accordingly, the AO has erred in disallowing expenditure of Rs. 1,03,07,792.
GROUND 7.2: That on facts and in law, the AO has erred in not allowing in the
year under assessment, 1/6th of the expenditure on recruitment and training
that was similarly disallowed in the preceding five assessment years  93
109\. The Ld. Counsel submitted that the said issue is covered by decision of
Hon'ble Delhi High Court in Assessee's own case for AY 1999-2000, 2002-03 and
AY 2003-04 wherein the Delhi High Court affirmed the decision of this Hon'ble
Tribunal allowing the deduction of expenditure incurred on recruitment and
training of employees. The Ld. Counsel submitted that the Ld. AO erred in
treating it as a deferred revenue expenditure on the assumption that
recruitment expenses will result in long term benefit. He failed to appreciate
that such expenditure was revenue in nature, incurred for the purpose of
business and therefore allowable under section 37(1) of the Act. Ld. CIT (DR)
relied on order of the Ld. TPO and DRP.
110\. We have already decided this issue under Ground no. 2 in the Dept's
appeal for A.Y. 2005-06 (ITA No. 3410/Del/12) in assessee's favour relying on
the orders of the Hon'ble Delhi High Court on this issue. Orders dated
9.06.2013 and 15.05.2017 in the appeals for A.Yrs 1999-2000 and 2003-04
respectively of the Delhi High Court have been placed before us. Respectfully
following the decision of the Delhi High Court we allow this ground of appeal.
GROUND NO. 8.1: That on facts and in law, the AO has erred in disallowing
deduction in respect of depreciation on UPS amount to Rs. 7,72,086 by
classifying them to be plant and machinery instead of computers GROUND 8.2:
That on facts and in law, the AO has erred in computing the amount of the
depreciation disallowance.
111\. The AO allowed 15% depreciation on UPS stating that it is covered under
the head 'plant and machinery'. Thus, 60%  94 depreciation claimed by the
assessee was disallowed. In this aspect, the Ld. Counsel submits that this
issue is no longer res integra as there are numerous decisions of the High
Courts and Tribunal where it has been held that depreciation on UPS is to be
allowed at 60% and not 15%. The Ld. Counsel contends that UPS were purchased
for the purpose of running the computer uninterruptedly during power cuts and
to prevent the loss of data in the computer due to sudden, frequent power
cuts. He stated that UPS also controls voltage fluctuation and prevents the
damage of computer system and its parts such as hard disk, memory etc. These
UPS were connected to LAN, PCs, servers, routers, V Sats, etc. and these would
not have functioned properly without support from the UPS. Thus, UPS form a
vital component of the computer system and therefore, the applicable rate of
depreciation on such UPS systems should be considered as 60 percent (same as
that of computers) under the category of 'Computers'. The Ld. Counsel pointed
out that 60% depreciation on UPS was allowed by the CIT (A) in assessee's own
case for AY 2005-06. Ld. CIT (DR) relies on the order of the AO and the DRP.
112\. We are in agreement with the Ld. Counsel of the Appellant that this
issue is no longer res integra as this Tribunal has already taken a view that
for depreciation purposes, UPS falls under the category of Computers being a
computer peripheral. The law in this regard has been settled by various
decisions, particularly the decision of the Hon'ble Jurisdictional High Court
in the case of CIT v. BSES Rajdhani ITA No. 1266/2010. This ground is
therefore allowed.
95
AY 2007-08 (ITA No. 5315/DEL/11)
113\. The facts and business model in the present Assessment Year i.e. 2007-08
are similar to the facts already stated for AY 2005-06 and 2006-07. For the
relevant assessment year, the appellant had filed its return of income on 31
October 2005 declaring an income of Rs. 104,57,52,771/- A summary of the
international transactions in dispute and the appellant's approach in
determining their ALP for these disputed transactions is given in the table
below:
         Particulars             Most        Profit   Margin   No. of    Arm's
                               Appropri      Level    earned comparabl   Length
                                  ate      Indicato by the       es      Margin
                                Method     r (PLI) as Appell considere   as per
                               as per TP    per TP    ant as  d as per      TP
                                 study       study    per TP TP study     study
                                                       study
    Class II -Trading -          Resale      Gross     24.15     10      23.08%
    (Consumer                     Price    Profit/Sa     %
    Electronics and             Method         les
    Home Appliances)            ("RPM")
    Import of finished
    goods, Import of
    stores and service
    spares, Export of
    service spares, Service
    income from hand
    held phones
    Class III -                Transacti   OP/OR     0.17%      6        1.82%
    Manufacturing -             onal Net
    (Colour Monitor)             Margin
    Import of raw material      Method
    Import of stores and       ("TNMM")
    service spares, Export
    of raw materials and
    service spares, Import
    of fixed assets, Service
                                                                                96
        Particulars            Most         Profit   Margin   No. of          Arm's
                             Appropri       Level    earned comparabl         Length
                                ate       Indicato by the       es            Margin
                              Method      r (PLI) as Appell considere         as per
                             as per TP     per TP    ant as  d as per            TP
                               study        study    per TP TP study           study
                                                      study
    income from hand
    held phones
114\. The other international transactions pertain to Classes I (Manufacturing
of Consumer Electronics and Home Appliances), Class IV (Trading of Colour
monitors) and class V (Contract software development). There is no dispute in
respect of these transactions. The dispute in the present AY (ITA No.
5315/DEL/2011) filed by the appellant pertains to the international
transactions grouped under Class-II (Trading of Consumer Electronics and Home
Appliances) segment and Class- III (Manufacturing of Colour monitors) segment.
115\. In respect of Class -II (Trading of Consumer Electronics and Home
Appliances) segment, the following transactions have been grouped together by
the appellant in its transfer pricing study prepared under rule 10B of the
Income Tax Rules 1962 (Rules);
i) Import of finished goods;
ii) Import of stores and service spares;
iii) Export of service spares;
iv) Service income from hand held phones.
The appellant is engaged in the trading of consumer electronic goods and home
appliances. Resale Price Method was chosen as the most appropriate method in
its transfer pricing study. The profit level indicator taken was gross profit/
sales. For the benchmarking exercise, an economic analysis was carried out in
97 the TP study leading to identification of 10 uncontrolled comparable
companies. Since appellant had earned gross profit margin of 24.15% which was
higher than the gross profit of 23.08% earned by the comparable companies
chosen in the TP study, it was concluded that the international transactions
in Class-II (Trading of consumer electronic goods and home appliances) segment
was at arm's length price.
116\. In Class-III (manufacturing of colour monitor) segment, Transactional
Net Margin Method (TNMM) was chosen as the most appropriate method to
determine the ALP with operating profit/ operating revenue as the profit level
indicator. The economic analysis carried out in the TP study resulted in
identification of 6 uncontrolled independent comparable companies. Since the
appellant had earned profit margin of 0.17% which was within the ± 5% range of
the profit margin earned by the comparables, it was concluded that the
international transaction was at arm's length.
117\. The transfer pricing officer rejected the most appropriate method
adopted by the assessee. He discarded the Resale Price Method for Class-II
(Trading of consumer electronic goods and home appliances) segment and adopted
Transactional Net Margin Method (TNMM) as the most suitable method for
determining of arm's length price. Under TNMM, he selected operating profit
margin on revenues (OP/OR; OP = operating profit/ OR = operating revenue) as
the profit level indicator. The TPO further proceeded to undertake a fresh
benchmarking analysis of the uncontrolled comparable companies and arrived at
a set of 3 comparable companies for the Class-II (Trading of consumer
electronic goods and home appliances) segment and 2  98 comparables for the
Class-III (Manufacturing of colour monitors) segment. The arithmetic mean of
the operating profit margin (OP/OR) of these comparables for the Class-II
(Trading of consumer electronic goods and home appliances) segment was
computed at 4.59% and for Class-III (Manufacturing of colour monitors) segment
was computed at 5.64%. Based on the above approach, the TPO worked out an
adjustment to the arm's length price of the international transactions
pertaining to Class-II segment at Rs. 310,027,372/-. In respect of Class-III
segment, the adjustment to the arm's length was worked out to be at Rs.
291,019,708/-. The TPO also carried out an adjustment with respect to the
Advertisement, Marketing and Promotion ("AMP") expenses incurred by the
appellant company as he was of the view that the appellant has provided
certain services in respect of creation of marketing intangibles, to its AE.
The TPO was of the view that any AMP expenditure incurred by the Appellant
over and above the average AMP spend of the comparable companies was
extraordinary in nature and incurred for the benefit of the AE which owned the
"Samsung" brand. The TPO worked out the average AMP spend of the comparables
at 6.55% of Sales and that of the Appellant at 10.44% of Sales and treated the
difference as the value of the brand promotion service which the Appellant had
provided to its AE. He accordingly held that this amount should have been
recovered by the Appellant from its AE. The approach followed by the TPO in
respect of this adjustment is as follows:
       Particulars                                  Amount (Rs.)
       Total Income (A)                            44,89,80,86,000
Advertisement and sales promotion expenses 469,10,06,942 incurred (B) AMP /
Total Income of SIEL (C) = (B)/(A) 10.44% Bright Line (AMP/total income of
6.55%  99 comparables) (D) AMP as per bright line ('E) = (A)*(D) 294,08,24,633
Excess Amount Spent on Advertisement as 175,01,82,309 compared to the
comparables (F) = (B)-(E) Less: Reimbursement received from its 57,93,56,345/-
parent SEC AMP reimbursement that should have been 117,08,25,964/-
       made
       Mark-up at 12%                            14,04,99,115
Adjustment proposed on account of AMP 131,13,25,080 (including mark-up)
118\. The AO incorporated the adjustment to the ALP made by the TPO and also
made the following additions to total income:
(a) Recruitment and training expenses of Rs. 1,20,69,362/- was treated as
capital expenditure and not allowable as a revenue expenditure u/s 37 of the
Act;
(b) Loss arising on account of fluctuation of foreign exchange currency
amounting to Rs. 206,77,205/- was disallowed as being notional and contingent
in nature;
(c) Depreciation on UPS, printers and servers was restricted to 15% as against
60% claimed by the appellant leading to a disallowance of Rs. 7,12,027/-.
119\. The assessee being aggrieved by the orders of the TPO and AO filed
objections before the DRP, New Delhi contesting the aforesaid additions made
to the total income of the assessee on various grounds. The Ld. DRP disposed
of the objections filed by the assessee vide its directions under section 144C
of the Income Tax Act, 1961 30th August 2011 and upheld the order of the
TPO/AO. In pursuance to the DRP Directions, the AO passed the final assessment
order dated 19th September 2011. Aggrieved by the order of the AO (impugned
order), the assessee has preferred  100 the present appeal and has prayed for
adjudication of the following grounds of appeal.
GROUNDS IN APPELLANT'S APPEAL (ITA NO. 5315/DEL/11) FOR AY 2007-08 GROUND NOs.
1 and 2: These grounds are general in nature.
GROUND NOs. 1.1 to 1.3: These grounds pertain to the AMP issue and are
identical to those already adjudicated by us in ITA No. 3248/Del/2012 for
A.Yr. 2005-06. These grounds are therefore allowed in line with our findings
and observations given in respect of Grounds 3.1 to 3.6 of ITA no.
3248/Del/2012. GROUND NOs. 1.4, 1.8 and 3: These Grounds are dismissed as not
being pressed.
GROUND NO. 3.1: That, on facts and in law, the Ld. TPO/ AO has erred in
rejecting Voltas Limited as a comparable company for benchmarking the
international transactions under Class II segment (trading of consumer
electronics and home appliances segment)-
120\. The inclusion of this comparable came up for our consideration in the
appeal no. ITA No. 5856/Del/2010 under Ground no. 4.2 (and has been discussed
at length above). As the facts and circumstances of this year remain the same
(and the arguments of the two parties remain the same), we hold that the
direction given by us in the prior year would apply for this year as well. The
examination of this comparable company is, therefore, remanded to the file of
the TPO with a direction to determine whether the twin conditions of
persistent loss for three years and erosion of net worth are met. If a clear
three years' trend of persistent loss coupled with negative net worth is
found, it can be  101 excluded from the list of comparables. This ground is
therefore allowed in terms of the above directions.
GROUND NO. 3.2:That, on facts and in law, the ld. TPO/ AO has erred in
considering Bajaj Electricals Limited as a comparable company while applying
the transactional net margin method to benchmark the international
transactions under Class II segment (trading of consumer electronics and home
appliances segment)
121\. An identical ground in respect of this comparable (Bajaj Electricals)
came up for consideration in the appeal for A.Y. 2006- 07 (ITA No.
5856/Del/2010) where we have already given our finding under Ground no. 4.3.
The facts for this year are identical and the arguments advanced by the two
sides are also identical. Therefore, our decision in this regard in ITA no.
5856/Del/2010 is to be followed. While deciding this ground in favour of the
assessee we had directed the exclusion of this comparable as the segmental
result taken into consideration includes manufacturing of fans and the
assessee's activity is limited to trading of consumer products (but not fans).
A perusal of this year's Annual Report shows that a similar situation exists
in this year as Bajaj Electricals had manufactured 379,000 fans out of total
of 21,78,000 fans sold by them. A bifurcation of profit margin of fans
manufactured fans and traded fans are not provided. We accordingly allow this
ground by following the earlier year's position in this respect.
GROUND NO. 4:That, on facts and in law, the ld. TPO/AO has erred in rejecting
PCS Technology Limited, Spice Limited and VXL Instruments as comparable
companies for benchmarking the international transactions under Class III
segment (manufacturing of color monitors)  102 VXL Instruments
122\. The Ld. Counsel contends that the TPO committed an error by rejecting
VXL Instruments on the sole ground that it is a persistent loss-making company
with declining net margins. The Ld. DRP upheld the order and reasoning of the
TPO. The Ld. Counsel submits that it is factually incorrect that the said
comparable is incurring persistent losses. As per the second proviso to Rule
10B (4), we should be checking losses in the current year and two prior years.
123\. The Ld. Counsel pointed out that in subsequent years, turnover of VXL
Instruments has increased and it continues to have operations. He contends
that de-facto rejection of a negative margin company is not correct. He
further contended that if a company is functionally comparable, then it cannot
be rejected merely on the basis of suffering losses. In this regard, he has
placed reliance on the following judicial decisions:
(a) DCIT vs. Exxon Mobil Company India Pvt. Ltd. (ITA No. 4389/Mum/2010) (Para
7) and Bobst India (P.) Ltd. v. DCIT (ITA No. 1380 (PN) of 2010): In both
these cases, it was held that exclusion of a comparable merely on the ground
that the comparable is incurring abnormal profit margin or persistent losses
without considering the applicable law under Rule 10B of the Income Tax Rule,
1962 (Rules) is untenable under law;
(b) DCIT vs. Quark Systems (P.) Ltd [2010] 38 SOT 307 (CHD.) (SB): In this
case, it was held that if the company is functionally comparable and the
turnover does not show declining trend then, merely on the basis that the
comparable company is incurring losses, the comparable cannot be excluded;
103
(c) Erhardt+Leimer (India) Private Limited vs. ACIT (ITA Nos. 3298/Ahd/2011 &
2880/Ahd/2012): Relying on the special bench decision in the case of Quark
Systems (supra) the Hon'ble Tribunal has held as below:
> "...consistent loss-making entities cannot be per se excluded merely in view
> of the negative income figures thereof."
(d) Chryscapital Investment Advisors (India) Pvt. Ltd. Vs. DCIT (ITA
417/2014): [2015] 376 ITR 183 (Delhi), the Hon'ble jurisdictional High Court
reiterated the same position supra that it is a settled law that comparables
cannot be excluded merely on the ground that it is making abnormally high
profits or losses.
124\. The Ld. Counsel pointed out that in the present case, no extraordinary
economic factor leading to persistent losses are evident from the annual
report of VXL Instruments. The company is showing a steady increase of
turnover on year-on-year basis except for a small dip in the F.Y. 2005-06
followed by a quick recovery in FY 2006-07 where there was a sharp increase in
turnover. The trend analysis of the profit margin and the turnover as given
below clearly shows that this company was passing through a temporary phase of
losses from which it has recovered. Such losses are normal incident in the
market and the purpose of providing for a computation of average under section
92C (2) of the Act, has been provided to account for profit as well as loss
making companies. He submitted the Turnover and Net margin trend for different
years:
           Assessment    Segmental                  NPM
              Year    Turnover (INR in
                                                                     104
                              crores)
           AY   2004-05            49.48             0.96%
           AY   2005-06            52.38             0.24%
           AY   2006-07            40.26           -11.09%
           AY   2007-08            72.81            -1.92%
           AY   2008-09            93.43            -7.53%
           AY   2009-10            80.38             2.14%
           AY   2010-11            76.60             1.26%
125\. Thus, he submitted that it can be seen from the trend analysis that
there is no trend of persistent losses on a long-term basis. Further, the
trend of sales on year-on-year basis shows that the company clearly has an
upward trend. Therefore, it cannot be branded as a persistent loss maker.
126\. The Ld. CIT (DR) vehemently argued that since VXL Instruments was
persistently making losses, it was rightly rejected as a comparable by the Ld.
TPO and the said rejection was rightly upheld by the DRP. He pointed out that
this company has experienced losses in the current year, prior year and the
subsequent year and on account of this trend it is evident that this company
is a persistently loss-making company. He further submitted that this Hon'ble
Tribunal has held in various judgments that a persistently loss-making company
cannot be taken as a comparable.
127\. While examining the suitability of another comparable, viz., Voltas
Industries Ltd. in this appeal as well in the prior year's appeal, we have
examined the issue of persistent loss making entities that are sought to be
used as functionally comparable companies under TNMM. We have already held
that a persistent loss trend has to be carefully gleaned from the facts of the
case to  105 check whether this trend persists over a period of at least three
years (current year and two prior years as specified in Rule 10B (4)).
Furthermore, as loss and profit cycles are normal incident of the market, in
order to check whether the persistent loss situation has arisen from an
extraordinary economic situation which is not representative of the sector in
which it operates, one has to see whether the net worth of the company has
been eroded. If the twin conditions are fulfilled, the comparable can be
excluded. In this case, though a chart of trend analysis has been furnished,
it has not been examined by the TPO. The details of net worth are not placed
before us. We accordingly remit this issue to the file of the TPO with a
direction to apply the aforesaid principles to determine the suitability of
this comparable. This ground is therefore disposed off in terms of the above
observations.
PCS Technology Ltd.
128\. Ld. Counsel contends that the TPO and the DRP committed an error in
rejecting PCS Technology on the ground that it has a different financial year
ending. He contends that different financial year is not a criterion to reject
a comparable company. He contends that this company was accepted in AY 2006-07
by the TPO in which year too, the financial year of the company ended in June.
The Ld. Counsel also submitted that the company's net profit margin for April-
March can be extrapolated from the figures of the two overlapping years. He
placed reliance on DCIT vs. McKinsey knowledge Centre India private limited
(ITA No. 195/del/2011), affirmed by the Hon'ble High Court of Delhi
[TS-672-HC-2015(DEL)-TP] to contend that extrapolated figures for the
financial year has been approved by the Court.
106
129\. Ld. CIT (DR) relied on the reasoning given by Ld. TPO and DRP and argued
that since PCS Technology has a different financial year ending, it cannot be
included in the list of comparables for the Appellant.
130\. We have perused the reasoning given by the TPO and the Annual Report of
this company (PCS Technology Ltd.). As per Rule 10B (4) current year data is
to be primarily used for comparison under any of the specified methods. If the
time period of comparison does not converge, the accuracy of comparison gets
compromised. We do not agree with the contention of the Ld. Counsel that
financial year ending is an irrelevant factor for the purpose of comparison
under TNMM. In our view the law clearly stipulates the time period for which
the data can be used for determination of ALP. It is only in certain
situations where the company maintains and publishes quarterly results, the
results for April-March period can be accurately extrapolated. In other
situations where quarterly results are not available, any effort to derive at
April-March results by extrapolating the figures on a proportionate basis
would be fraught with the risk of inducing inaccuracy in the comparability
process. The Hon'ble High Court's decision in Mckinsey Knowledge Centre
(supra) was also rendered in the context of availability of quarterly results.
In the present case, the extrapolated results submitted by the Ld. Counsel
have not been drawn from published quarterly results but derived on a
proportionate basis from the two overlapping years' financials. This approach
is not tenable and is accordingly rejected. This ground in respect of PCS
Technology Ltd. is, accordingly, dismissed.
107
Spice Mobile Ltd.
131\. Ld. Counsel pointed out that the TPO erred in rejecting Spice Mobile
Ltd. from the list of comparables on the ground that it is not clear from the
financials if the company is performing manufacturing operations. The Ld. DRP
upheld order of the TPO on the same reasoning. Ld. Counsel submitted that the
company has 2 segments - IT segment and mobile segment. In the IT segment, the
company is engaged in the business of manufacturing of computer systems and
printers. Sales from computer systems and printers amount to Rs. 37.01 crore
out of total sales of Rs. 52.1 crore in the IT segment. This works out to be
71% of the total revenue. The balance 29% is derived from trading,
installation and networking. The calculated as submitted by the Ld. Counsel
from the Annual Report is as below:
                      Particulars                  Amount in INR -
                                                     thousands
           Turnover of IT segment                          521,912
           Passbook printers                                234,423
           (manufactured)
           Computer Systems                                   135,728
           (manufactured)
           Sale from manufactured goods                       370,151
           Ratio of sales from                                   71%
           manufacturing goods to
           turnover of IT segment
132\. The Ld. CIT (DR) submitted that Spice Mobile was rightly excluded from
the list of comparables because it was not functionally comparable. Further,
he contended that from the financials of the relevant segment, it was not
clear if Spice Mobile was manufacturing comparable products.
108
133\. We have perused the orders of the TPO and the Annual Report of Spice
Mobile Ltd. This company has reported two segments - mobiles and Information
Technology. In the IT segment it has significant operations in manufacturing
of computer systems and peripherals which are comparable to the assessee's
Class III segment wherein computer peripherals like monitors are being
manufactured. However, the IT segment also has trading and installation
revenues. The split between the manufacturing sales and other sales is 70:30
whereas break-up of operating costs between manufacturing and trading is not
discernible from the report. In these circumstances, it is not possible to
accept the inclusion of this company as a comparable. It is now well settled
that if accurate segmental results are not available, the same cannot be used
for TNMM benchmarking. We accordingly dismiss this ground pertaining to
inclusion of Spice Mobiles Ltd.
GROUND NO. 5: That, on facts and in law, the Ld. TPO/AO has failed to make
appropriate adjustments to account for the differences in working capital
employed by the appellant vis-à-vis the comparables, thereby disregarding the
provisions of the Indian transfer pricing regulations and several judicial
pronouncements on this subject
134\. The Ld. Counsel contends that appropriate adjustment to account for
differences in working capital employed by the appellant vis-à-vis comparables
ought to be allowed. He submitted that the TPO erred in not granting the
working capital adjustment to the appellant to account for differences in
working capital employed by the appellant vis-à-vis comparables. He argued
that the TPO himself has allowed the working capital adjustments in  109 two
preceding years, i.e., AY 2005-06 & 2006-07. He further submitted that working
capital adjustments usually include adjustments for accounts payable, accounts
receivable and inventory. These adjustments ensure that the absolute levels of
the relevant balance sheet items are normalized by measuring them against the
total cost. In respect of grant of working capital adjustment, the Ld. Counsel
placed reliance on the following judicial decisions:
(a) ________________________________ Capgemini India Private Limited ITA No.
786/MUM/2011), [2013] 27 ITR(T) 74 (Mumbai - Trib.) (para 6)
(b) ________________________________ Demag Cranes & Components India Private
Limited v. DCIT ITA No. 120/PN/2011, [2012] 144 TTJ 320 (Pune) (para 31)
(c) ________________________________ M/s Nevis Network (India) Pvt. Ltd v. ITO
ITA No.338/PN/2012, [2015] 55 taxmann.com 519 (Pune - Trib.) (paras 11 and 13)
(d) ________________________________ Nortel Networks India Private Limited v.
ACIT ____________ ITA No. 4765/DEL/2011, [2015] 40 ITR(T) 102 (Delhi - Trib.)
(para 11.8)
(e) ________________________________ M/s Motorola Solutions India Private
Limited v. ACIT Circle-2 ITA No. 5637/Del/2011, [2014] 35 ITR(T) 546 (Delhi -
Trib.) (para 162.1)
(f) _________________________________ Qualcomm India Pvt. Ltd. v. ACIT Circle
14(1) ITA No.5239/DEL/ 2010, [2014] 147 ITD 17 (Delhi - Trib.) (para 41)
(g) ________________________________ Mentor Graphics (Noida) (P) Ltd. (109 ITD
101)  110
135\. The Ld. CIT (DR) relied on the orders of the lower authorities.
136\. The issue of grant of adjustment for difference in levels of working
capitals between the assessee and the comparable companies is now well
recognized by this Tribunal and is no longer res-integra. Differences in
inventory levels, credit period allowed by the suppliers and credit period
given to its customers lead to capital being locked in circulation. The net
profit margins do not reflect this difference. An entity which permits a
longer credit period of realizing its sale proceeds would want to receive
compensatory interest which is often inbuilt in the price of goods/services
sold. Similarly, a customer who is paying the full price upfront would want a
discount to account for the prompt payment that is made. Therefore, working
capital adjustment is nothing but accounting for time value of money. The
necessity and desirability of an adjustment for the same is advocated by the
OECD and the UN guidelines on Transfer Pricing as well. Economic adjustment of
this nature is also mandated by Rule 10B(3) and Rule 10B(1)(e)(iii). In light
of this discussion, we allow this ground and hold that TPO should, while
determining the net profit margins of the comparables should compute and allow
suitable adjustments for differences in working capital. We also note that
this is justified from the angle of consistency as well because the TPO
himself had made working capital adjustments to the margins of the comparables
in the two prior assessment years.
GROUND NO. 6: That, on facts and in law, the Ld. TPO / Ld. DRP has erred in
not restricting the transfer pricing adjustment in  111 proportion to the
value of impugned international transactions with the associated enterprise
vis-à-vis the total cost base of the various business segments which included
the cost of uncontrolled transactions with independent third parties also
GROUND NO. 6.1: Without prejudice, the ld. AO / Ld. DRP has erred in holding
that the value of international transactions is approximately 50% of the total
cost and therefore the international transactions have significant effect on
the total profitability which is not true for Class II transactions for which
adjustment may be restricted in proportion to the value of international
transactions
137\. This ground is identical to Ground no. 6 of ITA No. 5856/DEL/2010 for
A.Y. 2006-07 which has been adjudicated in favour of the Appellant.
Accordingly, following our own approach in prior year this ground is allowed.
GROUND NO. 8 & 8.1: That, on facts and in law, the Ld. AO has erred in holding
that expenditure on recruitment and training of employees' leads to enduring
benefit to the appellant and in holding to allow only 1/6th of the total
expenditure in the current year and deferring the balance to be allowed in
next five years Without prejudice to the above, the Ld. AO has erred in not
allowing in the year under assessment, 1/6th of the expenditure on this
account that was similarly disallowed in the preceding five assessment years.
138\. These grounds are identical to Ground no. 2 in ITA No.3410/Del/2012 for
A.Y. 2005-06 and Ground nos. 7.1 and 7.2 in ITA no. 5856/Del/2010 for
A.Yr.2006-07 and we have allowed these grounds in the two years by following
the orders of the Hon'ble Delhi High Court in prior years. Following the same,
these grounds are therefore allowed.
112
GROUND NO. 9: That, on facts and in law, the Ld. AO has erred in not treating
UPS connected to computers as 'computers' and instead regarding it as an item
of general 'plant and machinery' for the purpose of allowing deprecation
GROUND NO. 9.1: Without prejudice to the above ground, the Ld. AO has also
erred in not regarding said ups as 'electrical equipment being automatic
voltage controllers', eligible for depreciation @80% under Item
III(8)(ix)(e)(c) of Part A of Appendix I to the Income Tax Rules, 1962 ('the
Rules')
139\. While deciding the appeal for A.Y. 2006-07 (ITA No. 5856/Del/2010), we
have already allowed the ground no. 8.1 and 8.2 by holding that depreciation
on UPS is to be allowed at 60% under the category of computers. Following the
same, we allow this ground.
GROUND NO. 10: That, on facts and in law, the Ld. AO has erred in holding that
loss on exchange fluctuation amounting to Rs. 2,06,77,205 debited to P&L
account is a notional loss and is not allowable as a deduction under the
provisions of the Act
140\. The assessee in order to hedge itself against forex fluctuations which
impacts its export proceeds and import price it has to pay in the course of
business enters into forward foreign exchange contracts from time to time.
These contracts which remain open and unexpired on March 31st are marked to
the market as per generally accepted accounting principles. If there is loss
on the open contract the same is debited to the P&L account and claimed as a
deduction u/s 37 of the Act. The AO in his assessment order has held that the
provisions of Act do not allow deduction of any such notional loss for which
the liability has not  113 crystallized. Therefore, Marked to Market (MTM)
losses on account of revaluation of forex forward contracts are only notional
and are deductible as business losses under income tax provisions. For the
purpose of taxation, MTM Losses should be considered as just notional losses
which do not involve any actual outgo as the assessee is not liable to pay
such losses. This view of the AO has been upheld by the Ld. DRP.
141\. The Ld. Counsel for the appellant-assessee submits that the Ld. AO has
erred in holding that loss on exchange fluctuation debited to P&L account on
account of revaluation of open forward forex contracts is a notional loss for
which liability is not crystallized or is contingent upon the actual
settlement of forward contracts and is not allowable as a deduction under the
provisions of the Act. The foreign exchange loss was incurred on the
restatement of value of forward contracts which are executed in respect of
underlying transactions of revenue nature i.e. trade payables/receivables and
not for purchase of capital asset or any speculative purposes and, hence, the
loss was claimed as deductible expense. It was explained that in a foreign
exchange contract, there is a binding obligation to buy or sell a certain
amount of foreign currency at a pre-agreed rate of exchange, on a certain
future date. Due to binding nature of agreement, the liability of the
Appellant accrued the moment it entered into forward contract. It was
mandatory for the Appellant to measure the MTM losses on the unexpired forward
contracts at the end of the year in accordance with the method of accounting
consistently followed by it with respect to the effects of changes in foreign
exchange rates. The Ld. Counsel stated that this issue is now well settled in
view of the Hon'ble Supreme Court decisions of CIT v.
114
Woodward Governor India Private Ltd. 312 ITR 254 (SC) and Bharat Earth Movers
v CIT: [2000] 245 ITR 428(SC). He further submitted that in the assessee's own
case in ITA no. 6508/Del/2012 this Tribunal has examined this issue and given
a finding that such MTM losses are allowable u/s 37 of the Act.
142\. We have heard both the sides and examined the orders of the lower
authorities. We observe that the losses have been recognized in accordance
with applicable accounting standards/consistent accounting policy. The Hon'ble
SC judgment of CIT v. Woodward Governor India Private Ltd. 312 ITR 254 (SC)
has settled the issue of allowability of forex losses recognised on the last
date of Balance sheet u/s 37 of the Act arising on account of trading
transactions. The Hon'ble Apex Court has categorically held that loss on
account of exchange difference or mark to market losses as on the date of
Balance sheet is not a notional or contingent loss and has to be allowed as
ordinary principles of commercial accounting should be applied while deciding
deductibility under the Act so long as they do not conflict with any express
provisions of the Act. Further, in the case of Bharat Earth Movers v CIT:
[2000] 245 ITR 428(SC), the Hon'ble Apex Court had held that if a liability
has definitely arisen in accounting year, deduction should be allowed although
liability may have to be quantified and discharged at a future date but what
should be definite is incurring of liability. The Ld. Counsel for the
appellant has placed before us a copy of an order passed u/s 154 of the Act
where similar forex losses in A.Yr.2005-06 has been allowed by relying on the
Hon'ble SC judgement of Woodward Governor (supra). Further, this Tribunal has
examined and adjudicated this issue in favour of the assessee in ITA No.  115
6508/Del/2012 in the case of Samsung Technology India Pvt. Ltd which had
subsequently merged with the assessee. In view of the above discussion and
respectfully following the authority laid down by the Hon'ble Supreme Court,
this ground is allowed.
AY 2008-09 (ITA No. 52/DEL/13)
143\. The facts and business model in the present Assessment Year i.e. 2008-09
are similar to the facts already stated for AY 2005-06, 2006-07 & 2007-08. The
appellant had filed its return of income on November 30, 2008, declaring an
income of Rs. 173,84,64,490/-. A summary of the international transactions of
the appellant and the appellant's approach in determining their ALP is given
in the table below:
       Particulars            Most   Profit Level Margin       No. of       Arm's
                          Appropria Indicator earned by comparables         Length
                          te Method (PLI) as per     the    considered as   Margin
                          as per TP TP study Appellant per TP study         as per
                             study                as per TP                    TP
                                                    study                    study
    Class I -             Transactio Operating      4.43%         7         2.77%
    Manufacturing           nal Net    Profit /
    (Consumer               Margin    Operating
    electronics and         Method     Revenue
    home appliances)       ('TNMM')
    Import of raw
    material, Import of
    stores and services
    spares, Export of
    raw material and
    services spares,
    Export of finished
    goods, Payment of
    Royalty, Import of
    fixed assets,
    Import of spares
    for repair and
    maintenance,
    Availing of
    technical services,
                                                                            116
       Particulars           Most   Profit Level Margin       No. of       Arm's
                          Appropria Indicator earned by comparables        Length
                          te Method (PLI) as per    the    considered as   Margin
                          as per TP TP study Appellant per TP study        as per
                            study                as per TP                    TP
                                                   study                    study
    Reimbursement of
    marketing
    expenditure by
    AEs
    Class II - Trading      TNMM     Operating    2.22%         7           1.78%
    (Consumer                         Profit /
    electronics, home                Operating
    appliances and                   Revenue
    mobile phones)
    Import of finished
    goods, Import of
    stores and service
    spares, Service
    income,
    Reimbursement of
    marketing
    expenses by AEs
    Class III -            TNMM      Operating    -1.55%        5          -2.50%
    Manufacturing                     Profit /
    (Colour monitors)                Operating
    Import of raw                    Revenue
    material, Import
    of stores and
    service spares,
    Export of raw
    material and
    service spares,
    Import of fixed
    assets,
    Reimbursement of
    marketing
    expenses by AEs
    Class IV -              TNMM     Operating    3.37%         9          -0.52%
    Trading                           Profit /
    (Colour monitors                 Operating
    and other IT                     Revenue
    products)
    Import of finished
    goods, Import of
    stores and services
    spares,
                                                                              117
       Particulars           Most   Profit Level Margin       No. of         Arm's
                          Appropria Indicator earned by comparables          Length
                          te Method (PLI) as per    the    considered as     Margin
                          as per TP TP study Appellant per TP study          as per
                            study                as per TP                      TP
                                                   study                      study
    Reimbursement of
    marketing
    expenses by AE
    Class V -               TNMM     Operating       17.60%        23        14.65%
    Contract                          Profit /
    Software                         Operating
    Development                        Cost
    Services
    (Provision of
    contract software
    development
    services)
144\. The dispute in the present appeal (ITA No. 52/DEL/2013) filed by the
appellant pertains to the international transactions grouped under Class-II
(Trading of Consumer Electronics, Home Appliances and Mobile Phones) and
Class-III (Manufacturing of Colour Monitors) segment. The other international
transactions pertain to Classes I (Manufacturing of Consumer Electronics and
Home Appliances), Class IV (Trading of Colour monitors and other IT products)
and Class V (Contract software development services). There is no dispute in
respect of these transactions.
145\. In Class-II (Trading of Consumer electronics, Home Appliances and Mobile
Phones) segment, the appellant was engaged in the trading of consumer
electronics, home appliances and mobile phones and in Class-III (Manufacturing
of Colour Monitors) segment, the appellant was engaged in the manufacturing of
colour monitors. Transactional Net Margin Method was chosen as the most
appropriate method in its transfer  118 pricing study for both these segments.
The profit level indicator taken was operating profit/operating revenue. For
the benchmarking exercise in Class-II and Class-III segments, an economic
analysis was carried out in the TP study leading to identification of 7 and 5
uncontrolled comparable companies respectively. Since the appellant had earned
profit margin of 2.22% and -1.55% in the Class-II and Class-III segments
respectively which was higher than the profit margin earned by the
comparables, it was concluded that the international transactions were at
arm's length.
146\. The TPO rejected the economic analysis undertaken by the appellant and
proceeded to undertake a fresh benchmarking analysis by accepting certain
comparables of the appellant and introducing certain new comparables. The TPO
arrived at a set of 7 comparable companies for the Class-II trading segment
and 2 comparables for the Class-III manufacturing segment. The arithmetic mean
of the operating profit margin (OP/OR) of these comparables for the Class-II
trading segment was computed at 5.21%. Similarly, the profit margin of the
comparables in the Class-III manufacturing segment was carried out at 2.94%.
vide Order dated 14 October 2011, the TPO proposed an adjustment of Rs.
50,24,84,061/- pertaining to Class-II (trading segment) and Rs. 18,99,32,764/-
pertaining to Class-III (manufacturing segment). Further, he proposed an
adjustment of Rs. 454,94,35,445/- with respect to AMP expenses incurred by the
appellant because he was of the view that the appellant has provided certain
services in respect of creation of marketing intangibles, to its AE.
119
    Computation of TP adjustment            (In Rs.)
    Value of gross sales                    55,784,998,000/-
    AMP/Sales of the comparables            2.07%
    Amount that represents bright line      1,154,749,458/-
    Expenditure on AMP by assessee          5,542,768,817/-
    Expenditure in excess of bright line    4,338,019,359/-
    Mark-up at 15%                          658,202,903/-
Reimbursement that assessee should have 5,046,222,262/- received Reimbursement
actually received 496,786,817/- Adjustment to assessee's income
4,549,435,445/-
147\. The assessee being aggrieved by the orders of the TPO and AO filed
objections before the DRP, New Delhi contesting the aforesaid transfer pricing
adjustments. The DRP disposed of the objections filed by the assessee vide its
directions under section 144C of the Income Tax Act, 1961 dated 27 September
2012 and directed as follows:
(a) ________________________________ The DRP directed the exclusion of Spice
Mobiles Ltd. as a comparable for Class II segment and arrived at a final list
of 6 comparables. The arithmetic mean of the Net Profit Margin of these 6
comparables was calculated at 5.10% vis-à-vis 2.22% of the appellant. Thus,
the adjustment for Classs-II segment was reduced to Rs. 48,40,26,768;
(b) ________________________________ The DRP also directed the TPO to exclude
three companies i.e. Compuage Infocom Ltd., Redington India Ltd. and Computer
Point Ltd. as comparables for determining the bright line of AMP expenditure.
These companies were directed to be excluded because the amount incurred by
these companies on marketing and selling was 'nil'. The DRP directed to
exclude VXL Instruments Ltd. because it was a persistently loss-
120
making company. Further, to fix the Bright Line, the Ld. DRP directed to
exclude cash discount for calculating AMP expenditure of the appellant as well
as the comparables. Further, it directed to include other discounts and
commission payments reflected in P&L account of comparables in the AMP
expenditure to fix the Bright Line. A final set of 7 comparables was directed
to be used for determining the bright line. The computation of AMP adjustment
was revised as under:
           Particulars                                            Amount (Rs.)
           Value of Gross Sales                        55,784,998,000
           AMP/ Sales of the Comparables                         2.95%
           Amount that represents Bright Line           1,645,657,441
           Amount      actually   spend     on    AMP 5,54,27,68,817
           Expenditure
Amount spent in excess of 'bright line' and 3,89,71,11,376 on creation of
marketing intangibles Mark-up @15% 58,45,66,706 The amount by which Samsung
India 4,48,16,78,082 should have been reimbursed Amount reimbursed
49,67,86,817 Adjustment (Rs.) 3,98,48,91,265
148\. Based on the above directions, the TPO vide his rectified order dated 31
October 2012 made a final adjustment of Rs. 4,65,88,50,797 which comprised of
(i) adjustment on account of AMP expenditure at Rs. 398,48,91,265/-, (ii)
adjustment in respect of Class-II (trading segment) at Rs. 48,40,26,768/- and
(iii) adjustment in respect of Class-III (manufacturing segments) at Rs.
18,99,32,764/-.
149\. The AO incorporated the adjustment to the ALP made by the TPO and also
made the following additions to total income:
121
(a) Recruitment and training expense of Rs. 2,07,83,696 was treated as capital
expenditure and not allowable as a revenue expenditure u/s 37 of the Act;
(b) Foreign exchange fluctuation loss of Rs. 1,74,38,690 was not allowed as a
deduction;
(c) Depreciation on UPS, printers and servers was restricted to 15% as against
60% claimed by the appellant leading to a disallowance of Rs. 7,24,741.
150\. Aggrieved by the order of the AO, the assessee has preferred the present
appeal and has prayed for adjudication of the following grounds of appeal.
GROUNDS IN APPELLANT'S APPEAL (ITA NO. 52/DEL/13) FOR AY 2008-09 GROUND NO. 1
& 2: These grounds are general in nature.
151\. GROUND NO. 2.1 to 2.12: These grounds pertain to the issue of AMP
expenditure being treated as an international transaction and adjustment being
made on the basis of the "bright line" test. We have already decided this
issue in favour of the appellant in ITA no. 3248/Del/2012 for the A.Y. 2005-06
by examining this issue in detail. These grounds for this year are accordingly
allowed and disposed-off on the lines of our findings and observations made
while deciding Grounds no. 3.1 to 3.6 of ITA no. 3248/Del/2012.
GROUND NO. 3: That on facts and in law, the Ld. AO/TPO erred in rejecting
Shyam Telecom Limited as a comparable company for determining the ALP of
international transactions under Class II  122 segment (trading of consumer
electronics, home appliances and mobile phones)
152\. The Ld. TPO rejected Shyam Telecom for the sole reason that it was a
persistently loss-making company. The Ld. DRP was of the view that the company
was functionally different since the company has significant export income
from trading and relevant segment considered by the appellant is not purely a
trading segment but engaged in turnkey projects and trading.
153\. The Ld. Counsel argued that Shyam Telecom is not a persistent loss-maker
because on an entity basis, the company has shown positive operating profit
year on year even though relevant segment incurred losses. He submitted that
this comparable has been accepted by the Ld. TPO in subsequent 2 years and
thus, the principle of consistency should be followed. He pointed out that the
principle of consistency has been upheld in Brintons Carpets Asia P. Ltd. v.
DCIT (ITA 1296/PN/2010). The Ld. Counsel submitted that Shyam Telecom operates
under three business segments as stated in the table below:
               Segment Name                Segment Description
       Telecom Products & Services      The Telecom products &
                                        Services segment comprise
                                        of    manufacturing     and
                                        services in the related
                                        area.
       Turnkey Projects and Trading     Turnkey     Projects    and
                                        trading services segment
                                        includes    the     turnkey
                                        projects and trading in
                                        telecom products.
Investments (including Dividend) Investments are primarily in the subsidiaries
which are dealing in telecommunication  123 sectors.
He pointed out that over 99% income under Turnkey Projects and Trading Segment
are attributable to trading income from sale of GSM handsets, accessories,
communication systems and components. Revenue from GSM handsets & accessories
is Rs. 157.08 crores which is 99% of total revenue from the Turnkey Projects
and trading segment as is evident from the table below:
                         Particulars                        Amount (In
                                                             INR) (In
                                                              Lakhs)
       Total revenue from Turnkey projects and trading           15,893
       segment
       Total revenue from traded goods                           15,708
       Ratio of traded goods to segmental revenue                    99%
154\. Ld. Counsel argued that in this case, no extraordinary economic factor
leading to persistent losses are evident from the annual report of the
company. Such losses are normal incident in the market and the purpose of
providing for a computation of average under section 92C (2) of the Act, has
been provided to account for profit as well as loss making companies.
155\. The Ld. CIT (DR) vehemently relied on the order of the TPO and argued
that Shyam Telecom was correctly excluded. He argued that since Shyam Telecom
is a persistently loss-making company and it has a different functional
profile, it cannot be included in the list of comparables to determine arm's
length price. The Ld. CIT (DR) pointed out that the quantum of revenue derived
124 from turnkey project was INR 1.85 crores out of total segment revenue of
INR 158.93 crores which was a material amount and cannot be ignored.
156\. We have examined and perused the orders of the lower authorities and
also the Annual Report of Shyam Telecom Ltd. While the basis of the claim that
this company is a persistent loss- making one is not very clear, it is
manifest that the product profile of this entity is very dissimilar to that of
the assessee's. The relevant segment which is being sought to be taken for
comparison is called the "Turnkey" segment. In this segment, predominant part
of the revenues is derived from trading of GSM sets and communication network.
Only a very small portion of revenue is derived from turnkey projects.
However, the breakup of sales and profit margins of GSM phones and other
equipment is not available in the Annual Report. In such a situation it would
be an error to allow the inclusion of this comparable. This ground is
accordingly dismissed.
GROUND NO. 4: That, on facts and in law, the Ld. AO/TPO has erred in
considering Bajaj Electricals Limited as a comparable company for determining
the ALP of international transactions under Class II segment (trading of
consumer electronics, home appliance and mobile phones).
GROUND NO. 5: That, on facts and in law, the Ld. AO/TPO has erred in rejecting
PCS Technology Limited and VXL Instruments Limited as comparable companies for
determining the ALP of international transactions under Class III segment
(manufacturing of colour monitors).
125
157\. Ground no. 4 pertaining to Bajaj Electricals Ltd. is identical to the
Ground no. 4.3 in ITA no. 5856/Del/2010 for A.Y. 2006-07 and Ground no. 3.2 in
ITA no. 5315/Del/2011 for A.Y. 2007-08. As the material facts and
circumstances and the arguments taken by both sides remain the same, this
ground is decided on the findings and observations made in these two years. As
in prior years, the material fact that needs to be seen is whether the segment
of consumer products taken by the TPO includes manufacturing of fans. The
Annual Report of Bajaj Electricals for the F.Y. 2007-08 reveals that in this
year as well the company had manufactured 2,87,000 fans out of a consolidated
sales quantity of 27,07,000 fans and the net profit margins of the
manufactured and traded fans are not provided. In the absence of these details
Bajaj Electricals Ltd cannot be taken as a comparable.
158\. Ground no. 5 pertains to two companies which have been sought to be
included as comparables - these are PCS Technology Ltd. and VXL Instruments
Ltd. The suitability of these two companies as comparables for the
Manufacturing Segment has already been examined by us in the appeal for A.Y.
2007-08, where identical questions and arguments had been raised by the two
sides. In the said appeal (ITA No. 5315/Del/2011) while adjudicating Ground
no.4 pertaining to these comparables, we have held that PCS Technology Ltd. is
not a suitable comparable in the absence of accurate financials and for VXL
Instruments, we have ordered a remand to the file of the TPO to determine
whether the twin conditions of persistent loss (for current and two prior
years) coupled with erosion of net worth are present. These directions would
be equally applicable to these comparables for this year as well as the facts
and circumstances remain the same.
126
Accordingly, Ground nos. 4 and 5 are partly allowed. GROUND NO. 6: That, on
facts and in law, the Ld. AO/TPO has erred by not making appropriate
adjustments to account for differences in working capital employed by the
appellant vis-à-vis the comparables-
GROUND NO. 7: That, on facts and in law, the Ld. AO/TPO has erred in not
restricting the TP adjustment in proportion to the value of international
transactions with the associated enterprises vis-à- vis the total cost base of
the various business segments which included cost of uncontrolled transactions
with independent third parties as well
159\. Ground no. 6 pertains to the issue of allowability of economic
adjustment to account for differences in working capital between the assessee
and the comparables chosen for TNMM analysis and the same has already been
adjudicated by us under Ground no. 5 for the appeal for A.Y. 2007-08 (ITA No.
5315/Del/2011). We have held that this issue of working capital adjustment is
now no longer res integra and has to be allowed. This would be equally
applicable for this year as well and this ground is accordingly allowed. The
TPO is directed to compute the adjustment while determining the arm's length
price under TNMM.
160\. Similarly, Ground no. 7 pertaining to restricting the transfer pricing
adjustment to the proportionate value of the international transactions has
been decided by us under Ground no. 6 of ITA No. 5856/DEL/2010 for A.Y.
2006-07 and Ground no. 6 of ITA no. 5315/Del/2011for A.Y. 2007-08 by allowing
the same. Our observations and order in this respect would apply to this
Ground as well.
127
These two grounds 6 and 7 are accordingly disposed off in terms of the above
observations.
GROUND NO. 8: This ground is dismissed as not being pressed. GROUND NO. 9:
That, on facts and in law, the Ld. AO has erred in holding that expenditure on
recruitment and training of employees leads to enduring benefit to the
appellant and in allowing only 1/6th of the total expenditure in the current
year and deferring the balance to be allowed in next five years and in doing
so disallowing expense of Rs. 2,07,83,696 GROUND 9.1: Without prejudice to
above, the Ld. AO has erred in not allowing in the year under assessment,
1/6th of the expenditure on this account that was similarly disallowed in the
preceding five assessment years
161\. We have already adjudicated this issue in the appeals for prior years
(A.Y. 2005-06, 2006-07 and 2007-08) and allowed the same. We have held that
training and recruitment expenditure is fully allowable as revenue expenditure
in the year in which it is incurred. There being no enduring benefit it cannot
be treated as capital expenditure or deferred revenue expenditure. Ground no.
9 is therefore allowed and Ground no. 9.1 is dismissed as being infructuous.
GROUND NO. 10: That, on facts and in law, the Ld. AO has erred in not treating
UPS connected to computers as 'computer' and instead regarding it as an item
of general 'plant and machinery' for the purpose of allowing depreciation and
in doing so disallowed depreciation of Rs. 7,24,741
162\. We have already adjudicated this issue in the appeals for prior years
(A.Yrs. 2006-07 and 2007-08) and allowed the same. We have held that it is now
settled that depreciation on UPS  128 systems is allowable at the rate of 60%
under the category of 'computer' and not at 15% under the category of 'plant
and machinery'. Following the same, this ground is allowed.
GROUND NO. 11: That, on facts and in law, the Ld. AO has erred in holding that
loss on exchange fluctuation amounting to Rs. 1,74,38,690 debited to P&L
account is a notional loss and in not allowable as a deduction under the
provisions of the Act GROUND 11.1: Without prejudice to the above ground, the
Ld. AO has erred in not excluding Rs. 2,06,77,205 from the taxable income of
current year being marked to market losses incurred in respect of foreign
exchange contracts which were outstanding as on 31st March 2007 and written
back during the year as same was not allowed as deduction in the assessment
proceedings for AY 2007-08
163\. This ground pertains to allowability of loss arising from revaluation of
forward forex contracts on the last date of the balance sheet on account of
restatement of amounts payable and receivable in foreign exchange. This issue
has already been decided by us in ITA No. 5315/Del/2011 for A.Y. 2007-08 under
Ground no. 10 wherein we have allowed the ground in view of the law being
settled by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in CIT v. Woodward Governor India Pvt.
Ltd. 312 ITR 254 (SC) in this regard. Following the same, this Ground is
allowed.
AY 2009-10 (ITA No. 1567/DEL/14)
164\. The facts and business model in the present Assessment Year i.e. 2009-10
are similar to the facts already stated for AY 2005-06 to AY 2008-09. The
appellant had filed its return of income on November 30, 2009, declaring an
income of Rs.
129
143,10,59,696/-. A summary of the international transactions entered into by
the appellant and the appellant's approach in determining their ALP is given
in the table below:
       Particulars           Most      Profit   Margin     No. of     Arm's
                         Appropriate    Level earned by comparables   Lengt
                          Method as Indicator     the    considered     h
                         per TP study (PLI) as Appellant as per TP    Margi
                                       per TP as per TP    study       n as
                                       study     study                per TP
                                                                      study
    Class I -            Transactional   OP/OR    4.13%     6         1.91%
    Manufacturing         Net Margin
    (Consumer               Method
    Electronics,           ("TNMM")
    Home
    Appliances and
    Mobile Phones)
    Import of stores
    and service
    spares, Import of
    raw material,
    Export of raw
    material and
    service spares,
    Export of finished
    goods, Payment
    of royalty, Import
    of fixed Assets,
    Import of spares
    for repair and
    maintenance,
    Availing of
    services,
    Reimbursement
    of marketing
    expenses by AEs
    Class II -              TNMM         OP/ OR   1.38%     8         2.14%
    Trading
    (Consumer
    Electronics,
    Home
    Appliances and
    Mobile phones)
    Import of finished
    goods, Import of
                                                                       130
       Particulars           Most      Profit   Margin     No. of     Arm's
                         Appropriate    Level earned by comparables   Lengt
                          Method as Indicator     the    considered     h
                         per TP study (PLI) as Appellant as per TP    Margi
                                       per TP as per TP    study       n as
                                       study     study                per TP
                                                                      study
    stores and service
    parts, Export of
    finished goods,
    Services income,
    Reimbursement
    of marketing
    expenses by AEs
    Class III -            TNMM        OP/OR    1.42%       9         -0.41%
    Trading
    (Colour Monitors
    and other IT
    products)
    Import of finished
    goods, Import of
    stores and
    services spares,
    Reimbursement
    of marketing
    expenditure by
    AE
    Class IV -             TNMM       OP/ OC     15%        21        14.33
    Contract                                                            %
    Software
    Development
    Services
    Provision of
    contract software
    development
    services
165\. The dispute in the present appeal filed by the appellant pertains to the
international transactions grouped under Class-IV (Contract software
development) segment. The other international transactions pertain to Classes
I (Manufacturing of Consumer Electronics, Home Appliances and Mobile Phones),
Class II (Trading of Consumer Electronics, Home Appliances and Mobile  131
Phones) and Class III (Trading of Colour monitors and other IT products).
There is no dispute in respect of these transactions.
166\. In Class-IV (Contract software development) segment, the appellant was
engaged in the provision of contract software development services.
Transactional Net Margin Method was chosen as the most appropriate method in
its transfer pricing study. The profit level indicator taken was operating
profit/operating cost. For the benchmarking exercise, an economic analysis was
carried out in the TP study leading to identification 21 uncontrolled
comparable companies having margin of 14.33%. Since the appellant had earned
profit margin of 15% which was higher than the profit margin earned by the
comparables, it was concluded that the international transactions were at
arm's length.
167\. The dispute in the present appeal filed by the appellant primarily
pertains to the transfer pricing adjustments made by the TPO vide order dated
30 January 2013 on account of: (a) alleged international transaction of
Advertising, Marketing and Promotion (AMP) expenses; and (b) software
development segment.
168\. The first adjustment relates to adjustment made on account of AMP
expenses: The TPO was of the view that the Appellant has provided certain
services in respect of creation of marketing intangibles to its AE by spending
huge AMP expenses and worked out the average AMP/Sales of the comparables at
3.66% as against 9.19% in the case of the Appellant (rectified to 9.03% of
sales vide rectification order dated 06 March 2013) and considered this
difference as the value of the service which the Appellant had provided to its
AE. He accordingly held that this  132 excess amount should have been
recovered by the Appellant from its AE or should have been compensated by its
AE. The approach followed by the TPO in respect of this adjustment is as
follows:
                                         Amount as per     Amount as per
    Particulars                          original TP       original rectified
                                         Order             TP Order
    Advertisement   and   Sales    A     2,341,766,583       2,341,766,583
    Promotion
    Rebates and discounts          B     5,100,380,243       5,100,380,243
    Reimbursement         of       C      271,038,677         271,038,677
    marketing expenditure -
    Class I transactions
    Reimbursement         of       D       97,935,129          97,935,129
    marketing expenditure -
    Class II transactions
    Reimbursement          of      E       39,419,164          39,419,164
    marketing expenditure -
    Class III transactions
    Total Expenditure on AMP      F=     7,850,539,796       7,850,539,796
                                  A+
                                  B+
                                  C+
                                  D
                                  +E
    Less: Cash Discounts*          G      (489,586,765)       (620,056,638)
    AMP for this analysis         H=     7,360,935,031       7,230,438,158
                                  F -G
*While computing the total amount of AMP spent, cash discounts were accepted to be excluded from the computation Particulars TP adjustment TP Adjustment as per original as per original  133 TP Order rectified TP Order Value of Gross Sales A 80,092,644,000 80,092,644,000 AMP/ Sales of the B 9.19% 9.03% Assessee (%) Arm's length level of AMP C 2,931,390,770 2,931,390,770 (3.66% of sale) Amount actually spent on D 7,850,539,796 7,230,438,158 AMP Amount spent in excess E= 4,919,149,026 4,299,092,388 of the 'bright line' D- 
C Mark up @ 15.46% F 760,500,439 664,639,683 Amount to be reimbursed G =
5,679,649,465 4,963,732,071 by the AE E+F Amount already H 408,392,970
408,392,970 reimbursed by the AE Amount of TP I=G 5,271,256,495 4,555,339,101
adjustment -H
169\. Subsequently, the Appellant filed a rectification application under
section 154 dated 19 February 2013 with the TPO. This application was for
correct consideration of the cash discount at Rs. 620,056,638 as against Rs.
489,586,765. Accordingly, the TPO passed a rectified order dated 06 March 2013
and computed the AMP adjustment at Rs. 455,53,39,101 as against Rs.
527,12,56,496 in his original order.
170\. For computation of the Bright Line, the TPO selected a list of 10
comparables which is as under:
      S. No   Name of the company                          AMP/ Sales (%)
                                                                    134
        1.       Home Solutions Retail (India) Ltd.     4.77%
        2.       Vivek Ltd.                             3.59%
        3.       Infiniti Retail Ltd.                   4.64%
        4.       CCS Infotech Ltd.                      0.72%
        5.       Iris Computers Ltd.                    0.44%
        6.       Cellucom Retail India Pvt. Ltd.        8.16%
        7.       General Sales Ltd.                     10.18%
        8.       Allied Photographics India Ltd.        0.49%
        9.       VXL Instruments Ltd.                   2.83%
       10.       ACI Infocom Ltd.                       0.79%
                 Arithmetic Mean                        3.66%
Further, for computation of the mark-up for computing the TP adjustment on
AMP, the TPO selected two comparables as under:
      S.No        Name of the company                   NCP (%)
           1.     Crystal Hues Ltd.                      8.03%
           2.     Cyber Media Research Ltd.             10.89%
                  Arithmetic Mean                       9.46%
This mean of NCP 9.46% has been increased by an ad-hoc 6% (i.e. half of 12%,
being the nominal rate of interest to cover the return on the funds that has
been blocked), thereby, arriving at a mark- up of 15.46%.
171\. In so far as adjustments in the software development segment, the
Appellant in its Transfer Pricing Report computed its margins at 15% NCP as
against an ALP of 14.33% (arithmetic mean earned by 21 comparables companies).
The TPO after making certain alterations to the quantitative filters adopted
by the Appellant in its Transfer Pricing Report and further, adding a  135 few
new quantitative filters, accepted 11 comparables forming part of the
Appellant's Transfer Pricing Report, included 1 additional company, namely
Blue Star Infotech at the behest of the Appellant and 6 additional companies
from the accept/ reject matrix forming part of the Transfer Pricing Report.
There by computing the ALP at 25%, being the arithmetic mean of 18 comparable
companies. A representation of the final comparable set adopted by the TPO is
tabulated below:
       S.No     Comparables                                 NCP
                                                            (%)
          1.    Akshay Software Technologies Ltd.           7.99%
          2.    Aztecsoft Ltd. (Consolidated)               27.37%
          3.    Blue Star Infotech Ltd. (Consolidated)      17.64%
          4.    Bodhtree Consulting Ltd.                    69.80%
          5.    Cat Technologies Ltd.                       34.43%
          6.    CG Vak Software & Exports Ltd.              2.7%
          7.    Goldstone Technologies Ltd. (Seg)           10.28%
          8.    Infosys Technologies Ltd.                   40.74%
          9.    Larsen & Toubro Infotech Ltd.               21.56%
         10.    LGS Global Ltd.                             17.55%
         11.    Mindtree Ltd.                               27.36%
         12.    Persistent Systems Ltd.                     37.77%
         13.    R S Software (I) Ltd.                       10.15%
         14.    Sasken    Communication         Technologies 22.67%
                Ltd.
         15.    Tata Consultancy Services Ltd.              31.44%
         16.    Tata Elxsi Ltd.                             16.89%
         17.    Thinksoft Global Ltd.                       16.56%
         18.    Thirdware Solutions Ltd.                    37.37%
       Arithmetic Mean                                      25.00%
                                                                     136
Based on the above set of comparables, the TPO computed the adjustment as
under:
        Particulars                                  Amount (Rs.)
        Operating Cost                     A        1,071,382,122
        Arm's Length Margin @ 25%      B = A*25%      267,845,531
        Arm's Length Price             C=A+B        1,339,227,653
        Price   charged    by  the         D        1,232,080,000
        Assessee
        Adjustment proposed             E=C-D        107,147,653
172\. The Ld. DRP passed its directions under section 144C of the Act dated 30
December 2013. Vide its directions, the Ld. DRP upheld the action of TPO with
respect to the adjustment made on account of AMP expenses. However, for the
adjustment made on account of software development segment, the Ld. DRP
accepted arguments of the Appellant that the comparable 'Bodhtree Consulting
Ltd.' had an exponential growth in revenue in the relevant assessment year and
deleted the said comparable from the final list of comparables. Accordingly,
the transfer pricing adjustment was reduced to Rs. 7,30,77,701 as the ALP of
the 17 comparables was recomputed at 21.82%.
173\. Pursuant to the directions of Ld. DRP, the AO passed the final
assessment order dated 28 January 2014 incorporating the transfer pricing
adjustment on account of AMP expenses of Rs. 455,53,39,101 and on account of
software development segment of Rs. 7,30,77,701. The AO also made the
following additions to total income:
137
(a) Recruitment and training expense of Rs. 4,61,16,829/- was treated as
capital expenditure and not allowable as a revenue expenditure u/s 37 of the
Act;
(b) Foreign exchange fluctuation loss of Rs. 2,99,52,597/- was not allowed as
a deduction;
(c) Depreciation on UPS, printers and servers was restricted to 15% as against
60% claimed by the appellant leading to a disallowance of Rs. 2,87,820/-
(d) Denied deduction claimed under section 10A of the Act amounting to Rs.
27,74,04,907/-.
Aggrieved by the order of the AO (impugned order), the assessee has preferred
the present appeal and has prayed for adjudication of the following grounds of
appeal.
GROUNDS IN APPELLANT'S APPEAL(ITA NO. 1567/DEL/14) FOR AY 2009-10
174\. GROUND NO. 1 to 12: These grounds pertain to the issue of AMP
expenditure being treated as an international transaction and adjustment being
made on the basis of the "bright line" test. We have already decided this
issue in ITA no. 3248/Del/2012 for A.Y. 2005-06 by examining the same in
detail. These grounds for this year are allowed and disposed-off in favour of
the appellant on the lines of our findings and observations made while
deciding Grounds no. 3.1 to 3.6 of ITA no. 3248/Del/2012. GROUNDS PERTAINING
TO ADJUSTMENT ON ACCOUNT OF SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT (13-23) GROUND NO. 13: The
Ld. TPO/AO/DRP have erred in not accepting the economic analysis undertaken by
the appellant in respect of international transaction pertaining to provision
of  138 contract software development services by the appellant to its AEs and
computing adjustment of INR 7,30,77,701 to the total income of the appellant
GROUND NO. 14: The Ld. TPO/AO/DRP have erred in rejecting certain comparable
companies identified by the appellant using 'turnover less than INR 5 crores'
as a comparability criterion GROUND NO. 15: The Ld. TPO/AO/DRP have erred, in
rejecting certain comparable companies identified by the appellant on account
of showing diminishing revenues trend GROUND NO. 16: The Ld. TPO/AO/DRP have
erred in rejecting certain comparable companies identified by the appellant
for having different accounting year (i.e. having accounting year other than
March 31 or companies whose financial statements were for a period other than
12 months) GROUND NO. 17: The Ld. TPO/AO/DRP have erred in rejecting certain
comparable companies identified by the appellant using 'employee cost greater
than 25 percent of total cost' as a comparability section GROUND NO. 18:The
Ld. TPO/AO/DRP have erred in rejecting certain comparable companies identified
by the appellant using 'export earnings less than 75 percent of operating
revenues' as a comparability criterion GROUND NO. 19:The Ld. TPO/AO/DRP have
erred in wrongly rejecting certain companies from and adding certain companies
to the final set of comparables for the said transaction on an ad-hoc basis,
thereby resorting to cherry picking of comparable for benchmarking GROUND NO.
20: The Ld. TPO/AO/DRP have erred in selecting certain companies (which are
earning supernormal profits) as comparable to the appellant to benchmarking
the said transaction.
139
GROUND NO. 21: The Ld. TPO/AO/DRP have erred in treating gain arising from
foreign exchange fluctuation as non-operating in nature while computing the
profit margin of the appellant. GROUND NO. 22: The Ld. TPO/AO/DRP have erred
in not making appropriate adjustments to account for differences in working
capital employed by the appellant vis-à-vis the comparable companies.
GROUND NO. 23: The Ld. TPO/AO/DRP have erred in not allowing appropriate
adjustments to account for differences in risk profile of the appellant vis-à-
vis the comparables.
175\. The Ld. Counsel submitted that in this segment, out of final set of 17
comparables, the appellant is aggrieved by 5 comparables (namely Cat
Technologies Ltd., Infosys Tecnhologies Ltd, Thirdware Solutions Ltd, Tata
Elxi Ltd, Tata Consultancy Services Ltd.). Further, the appellant is also
aggrieved by the erroneous exclusion of 9 comparable companies (namely Ancent
Software International Ltd, Helios and Matheson IT Ltd, Indium Software
(India) Ltd, KPIT Cummins Info Ltd, Maars Software International Limited,
Qunitegra Solutions Ltd, SIP Technologies and Exports Ltd, Softsol India
Limited, Zylog Systems Limited). Further, the appellant has also raised
grounds of appeal in respect of denial of adjustment for risk, denial of
working capital adjustment, erroneous treatment of foreign exchange loss as
non- operating in nature, erroneous use of filters while selecting comparables
(export filter, employee cost filter, diminishing revenue filter, turnover
filter), erroneous rejection of companies having different financial year and
erroneous inclusion of comparables having super normal profits.
140
176\. However, it has been submitted by the Ld. Counsel of the Appellant that
if only two comparables (Infosys Technologies Ltd and Tata Consultancy
Services Ltd) selected by the TPO and DRP held to be inappropriate and are
excluded and working capital adjustment is allowed, the appellant's
transaction value will be at arm's length and the rest of the grounds will not
be required to be adjudicated and would be rendered academic in nature.
Accordingly, we examine the validity of these two comparables and the claim of
working capital adjustment. The Ld. Counsel made the following submissions and
pleaded for exclusion of Infosys Technology Ltd and Tata Consultancy Services
Ltd.
i) Infosys Technologies Limited
(a) The Ld. Counsel pointed out that there is a huge disparity in turnover
between Infosys and the Appellant's software segment- INR 20,000 Cr approx.
for Infosys vis-à-vis INR 125 Cr (approx.) for the Appellant. The Ld. Counsel
also submitted the company was engaged in diversified and non-comparable
services i.e. design development, re-engineering, infrastructure management
services and it commands a huge brand value of approximately Rs. 31,900 Cr
and, hence, could not be compared to the Appellant who is a captive service
provider. He further submitted that the company has significant onsite revenue
i.e. 51% of revenue is from on-site jobs whereas the comparables 'Maars
Software International Ltd.' and 'Zylog Systems Ltd.' have been excluded by
the TPO on the ground that they had onsite revenue of approximately 42%.
(b) The Ld. Counsel argued that since the company has significant R & D
activities (i.e. 1.3% of revenue earned), has significant  141 intangible
assets (patents filed by its R & D labs by the name of 'SET Labs' & brands)
and has significantly large scale of operations i.e. it is an industry giant,
this cannot be included in the list of comparables. He vehemently contended
that there is a catena of judgments in which Infosys has been held to be an
inappropriate comparable company. He listed out the judgments as follows:
> • CIT vs. Agnity India Technologies Pvt. Ltd. (ITA 1204/2011 dated July 10,
> 2013) • UT Starcom Inc. (India Branch) (ITA No.5848/Del./2011) • Toluna
> India Pvt.Ltd. (ITA 393/2016 & ITA 394/2016) • Sumtotal Systems India Pvt.
> Ltd. (I.T.T.A. NO.660 OF 2014) • Adaptec India Limited (I.T.T.A. No.638 of
> 2014) • Virtusa (India) Private Limited [ITA No. 1962/Hyd/2011] • Telcordia
> Tech nologies India Pvt. Ltd [ITA No.7821 /Mum/2011] • Agnity India
> Technologies Pvt. Ltd. v. DCIT TS-265-
> ITAT-2013(DEL)-TP • Mercedes Benz Research & Development India Pvt. Ltd.
[IT(TP)A No. 1222/Bang/2011] • Transwitch India Pvt. Ltd. [IT(TP)A No.
948/Bang/2011] • Yodlee Infotech Private Limited [ITA No. 1397/Bang/2010] •
Meritor LVS India (P) Ltd. [ITA No. 405/Bang/2011] • Patni Telecom Solutions
Pvt.Ltd.[ITA No. 1846/Hyd/2011]  142 • Sonata Software Ltd. [ITA No.
3514/Mum/2010] • Agilent Technologies International Pvt. Ltd. [ITA No.
6047/Del/2012] • Cincom Systems India P.Ltd. [ITA no. 761/Del/2012] • Insilica
Semiconductors India P. Ltd Vs. ITO [ITA No.1399/Bang/2010] • Frost &Suvilian
(I) Pvt. Ltd. [ITA No. 2073/Mum/2010] • Adaptec (India) Pvt. Ltd. [ITA
1801/Hyd/2009] • Genesys Integrating Systems (India) Pvt. Ltd. Vs. DCIT [ITA
No. 1231/Bang/2010] • Trilogy-E-Business Software India Pvt Ltd [TS-748-
ITAT-2012-Bang] • Bearing Point Business Consulting P. Ltd TS-758-ITAT-
2012(Bang)-TP (AY:2007-2008) • CSR PVT LTD Vs. ITO TS-68-ITAT-2013(Bang)-TP AY
2007-2008 • DCIT Vs. M/s Hellosoft India P. Ltd.TS-59-ITAT-
2013(HYD)-TP 2005-06 • LG Soft India Private Ltd Vs. DCIT TS-64-ITAT-
2013(BANG)-TP AY 2007-2008 • Autodesk India Pvt Ltd Vs DCIT TS-62-ITAT-
2013(Bang)-TP 2006-2007 • HCL EAI Services Ltd V DCIT TS-133-ITAT -
2013(Bang)-TP 2006-2007 • NDS Services Pay-TV Technology Private Limited v
ACIT TS-127-ITAT-2013-Bang-TP 2007-2008 • Logica Private Ltd v ACIT
TS-131-ITAT-2013(Bang)-TP 2007-2008  143 • NTT Data India Enterprise
Application Servico5es Pvt. Ltd. vs. ACIT [TS-293-ITAT-2013(HYD)-TP] (AY 2005-
06) • 3DPLM Software Solutions Ltd. (TS-359-ITAT-
2013(Bang)-TP) (AY 2008-09) • Hyundai Motors India Engineering Pvt. Ltd.
[ITA.No.1850/Hyd/2012] • App Labs Technologies Pvt. Vs DCIT [TS-316-ITAT-
2013(HYD)-TP]
(c) The Ld. CIT (DR) submitted that the Ld. TPO retained this comparable for
the reason that major revenue of this company was from software development
and the revenue from software product was extremely low and that R&D of 1.3%
of revenue was not significant. The Ld. DRP upheld action of the TPO for the
reason that FAR profile of this company was akin to the Appellant.
ii) Tata Consultancy Services Ltd
(a) This company was introduced by the Ld. TPO and his action was upheld by
the Ld. DRP for the reason that this company is functionally similar to the
Appellant.
(b) The Ld. Counsel contended that this company fails the Related Party
Transaction (RPT) filter applied by the TPO. He pointed out that the value of
RPT (only revenues derived from related parties) is Rs. 12619.79 crore and the
total revenue is Rs. 22,404 crores. Accordingly, the Ld. Counsel contended
that the percentage of RPT as a ratio of total sales is 56.32% and fails the
RPT filter of 25% applied by the Ld. TPO himself.
144
(c) The Ld. Counsel pointed out that the company has 42 patents registered and
over 150 applications pending registration. Further, the company has huge
employee base which gives it an access to variety of talent. It has
significant R & D activities and has significantly higher assets of Rs.
2669.08 crores (Net book value as on 31 March 2009) as against Rs. 44.90
crores of the appellant.
(d) The Ld. Counsel also submitted that Tata has a significantly higher
turnover of Rs. 21535.75 cras against Rs. 123.20 Cr. in the case of the
Appellant i.e. 175 times more than the latter.
e) The Ld. Counsel contended that this company has to be rejected as a
comparables also because it has on-site revenue of 51.19% of the total
revenue. He submitted that the comparables 'Maars Software International Ltd.'
and 'Zylog Systems Ltd.' have been excluded by the Ld. TPO in AY 2008- 09 on
the ground that they had on-site revenue of 42%.
f) The Ld. CIT (DR) vehemently opposed the exclusion of the said comparables.
The Ld. CIT (DR) submitted that there is no correlation between branding and
profit margin. Similarly, he contended that for service companies the turnover
does not have a material bearing on the profit margin as long as the company
is functionally similar, it should be retained as a comparable under TNMM
because size, scale and brand name do not impact the profit margin though
these aspects may affect the profit. He specifically pointed out that many
companies without brands and operating at low turnover have high profit
margins and companies with brands and high  145 turnover can have low margins.
Therefore, these factors are not relevant for determination of ALP under TNMM.
g) The Ld. Counsel in his rejoinder submitted that the contentions raised by
the CIT(DR) do not have any merit because application of TNMM does not mandate
a positive correlation between a relevant economic factor (brand / scale/
turnover) and net profit margin. He pointed out that Rule 10B(1)(e) read with
Rule 10B(2) mandate the following key aspects need to be taken into account
while selecting comparables:
h) Apart from similarity of function, similarity of asset level and risks
undertaken by the company sought to be taken as comparable has to be similar
to that of the tested party. A company which is much bigger in size and has
greater number of employees requires much different level of assets and
undertakes much higher levels of risk as compared to a company which is
smaller in size and lesser number of employees.
i) A company with a significant brand and other valuable trade intangibles has
a distinct advantage in the market place over unbranded companies. It is also
important to emphasize that branded and unbranded companies operate at
different levels of the market and compete in different market segments. This
is a relevant factor under Rule 10B(2).
j) In the real world, there can never be a positive correlation between two
economic factors / indicators, specially while measuring the impact on profit
margins it is not possible to judge the exact quantum of impact of any one
factor on the profit margin because profit margin is impacted by numerous
factors and reasons all of which cannot be documented and  146 quantified. It
is for this reason that Rule 10B(1)(e)(iii) contains the words "could
materially affect the amount of net profit margin in the open market".
Therefore, the statute does not mandate that an economic factor is relevant
only if it is positively correlated with net profit margin but as long as
there is a likelihood of impact, the conditions are fulfilled.
177\. We have heard the two sides and perused the orders and material on
record. We are examining the suitability of both these companies (Infosys
Technology and Tata Consultancy Services) together as these two are similar in
many respects. As per their profile, function and volume of scale, they are
reckoned as the leaders of the Indian IT sector and are often considered to be
the most prestigious brands in this space. The process of selection of
appropriate comparables under TNMM is to be guided by Rule 10B (2) which lays
down the factors of comparability. These factors are functions, assets and
risks, nature of the services, contractual terms, level of the market and
other relevant economic parameters which have a material effect on
profitability. The 'OECD Transfer Pricing Manual 2017' in Para 3.43 and the
'UN Transfer Pricing Manual 2017' in Para B.2.3.4.40 also provide guidance in
this respect, which for sake of ready reference are extracted below:
> "3.43. In practice, both quantitative and qualitative criteria are used to
> include or reject potential comparables. Examples of qualitative criteria
> are found in product portfolios and business strategies. The most commonly
> observed quantitative criteria are:
• Size criteria in terms of Sales, Assets or Number of Employees. The size of
the transaction in absolute value or in proportion to the activities of the
parties might affect the relative competitive  147 positions of the buyer and
seller and therefore comparability.
• Intangible-related criteria such as ratio of Net Value of Intangibles/ Total
Net Assets Value, or ratio of Research and Development (R&D)/Sales where
available: they may be used for instance to exclude companies with valuable
intangibles or significant R&D activities when the tested party does not use
valuable intangible assets nor participate in significant R&D activities.
• Criteria related to the importance of export sales (Foreign Sales/ Total
Sales), where relevant.
• Other criteria to exclude third parties that are in particular special
situations such as start-up companies, bankrupted companies, etc. when such
peculiar situations are obviously not appropriate comparisons.
• The choice and application of selection criteria depends on the facts and
circumstances of each particular case and the above list is neither limitative
nor prescriptive."
"B.2.3.4.40. Criteria commonly used for initial screening may include the
following list. The relevance of the screening criteria below depends on the
facts and circumstances of each particular case and the list here is purely
indicative:
 Geographic restrictions with respect to a country or region;
 A specific industry classification;
 Certain keywords;
 Elimination of those enterprises which may have substantial transfer pricing
issues themselves and fail an independence screening;
 Inclusion or expulsion of specific functions such as research and
development, production, distribution or holding of shares;
 Exclusion of companies which were only recently set up;  Consideration of
diagnostic ratios such as turnover per employee, ratio of net value of  148
intangibles/total net assets value or ratio of research and development/sales
etc.; and  A focus on sales volume, fixed assets or numbers of employees."
A perusal of the above principles along with the factors stipulated in Rule
10B(2) makes it amply clear that functions, assets and risks manifested in
terms of scale, size, head-count, presence of valuable intangibles are very
relevant considerations to be taken into account.
178\. The exclusion/inclusion of Infosys Technology Ltd. as a comparable for
captive software entities is an issue that has arisen in large number of cases
(some of which have been cited above by the Ld. Counsel also). Infosys
Technology Ltd. is one of India's leading IT companies have presence
worldwide. Its turnover is in excess of Rs. 20,000 crore (as against Rs. 125
crore of the appellant) and its functions are highly diversified. One of the
important attributes that sets Infosys apart from small captive IT companies
is the presence of highly valuable IPRs by way of brand and software products
which generate licensing revenues. It invests significant amounts in R&D and
advertising every year. Its head count is significantly larger than that of
the appellant company. The diversified nature of its business has been stated
on Page 78 of the Annual Report - ".end to end business solutions.. the
solutions span the entire software life cycle encompassing technical
consulting, design development, re-engineering, maintenance, systems
integration, package evaluation and implementation, and testing and
infrastructure management services. In addition, the Company offers software
products for the banking industry". A perusal of the Annual Report further
reveals that it owns a well-
149
known proprietary product used by the banks called "Finnacle". The Company
generates licensing revenue from products like Finnacle. The Annual Report
also states that its brand has been valued by the company at a staggering Rs.
31,900 crore. For these reasons, the functional, assets and risk profile of
Infosys Technology Ltd. is very dissimilar to that of the assessee's software
development segment which operates as a risk mitigated captive entity. In
large number of decisions of this Tribunal Infosys Technology Ltd. has been
held to be incomparable to captive software developers who lack scale, size
and heft of Infosys Technology Ltd. The Hon'ble Delhi High Court in the case
of CIT vs. Agnity India Technologies Pvt. Ltd. (supra) has upheld the order of
the Tribunal ordering its exclusion on the above grounds (vast difference in
scale, size, functions, intangible assets and risk levels). In view of the
above, we hold that Infosys Technology Ltd. should be excluded from the list
of comparables.
179\. The factual matrix pertaining to Tata Consultancy Services is quite
similar. We have perused the Annual Report of this company and we find that
its turnover is in excess of Rs. 20,000 crores. Furthermore, on Page 58 of the
Annual Report it has been stated that the company has 42 registered patents
and another 150 are pending registration. The head-count given on Page 23 of
the Report indicates that it has more than 100,000 employees. Its asset base
is in excess of Rs. 2500 crore (as against Rs. 45 crores of the Appellant). In
these circumstances, it is vastly dissimilar and different that the software
segment of the appellant, which is operating at a much smaller level and sans
any ownership of IPRs. Furthermore, the details given on Page 144 of the
Annual Report demonstrate that more than 50% of its revenues are derived from
150 related parties. It, accordingly, fails the RPT filter of 25% applied by
the TPO. The reasons for excluding Infosys Technology are equally applicable
to Tata Consultancy Services as well. We, therefore, hold that Tata
Consultancy Services Ltd. is a wholly inappropriate comparable for the
software development segment of the appellant.
Working Capital Adjustment
180\. The Ld. TPO rejected the request for working capital (WC) adjustment to
the margin of the comparables by stating that out of the 3 components of WC
adjustment, only one component is affected by the subject transaction i.e.
receivables. On this basis, he stated that it is not justified to allow WC on
3 components. The Ld. DRP upholding the action of the Ld. TPO directed that
the working capital adjustment is difficult to make due to lack of accurate
and reliable data. It held that the Appellant has failed to demonstrate that
difference in working capital deployed is making difference in the margin
earned by the taxpayer and the comparables.
181\. The Ld. Counsel pointed out that detailed submissions and calculations
have been submitted by the Appellant before the Ld. DRP. He argued that WC
adjustment has been granted by the Ld. TPO in subsequent years i.e. AYs
2010-11 and 2011-12. He submitted that the difference in working capital
position has a bearing on the ALP. Further, he drew our attention to rule
10B(1)(e) and rule 10B (3) which allows for making reasonably accurate
adjustment to arrive at the ALP. The Ld. Counsel also placed reliance on the
OECD Guidelines 2017, UNTP Manual 2017 and ICAI Guidelines in this regard.
151
182\. Further the Ld. Counsel relied on the following judicial decisions where
working capital adjustment has been held to be a permissible and desirable
adjustment to improve comparability:
(a) ___________________________________ TNT India Private Limited vs. Asst.
Commissioner of Income tax, ITA No. 1442 (BNG)/ 08
(b)___________________________________ The Income-tax Officer vs. M/s Nextlinx
India Pvt. Ltd., ITA No. 454/Bang/2011
(c) ___________________________________ Bearing Point Business Consulting
Private limited vs. The DCIT, ITA No. 1124/Bang/2011
(d)___________________________________ Nortel Network Vs ACIT
[TS-65-ITAT-2014(DEL)]
(e) ___________________________________ Cengage Learning Pvt.
Ltd v ITO: [ITA No. 5926/Del/2010]
(f) ___________________________________ AMD India (P) Ltd v DCIT: ITA No. 204
& 242/Bang/2015
(g) ___________________________________ DCIT v M/s Kyocera Asia Pacific India
Pvt Ltd ITA No. 1029/Del/2016
(h) __________________________________ M/s NCS Pearson India Pvt Ltd v DCIT:
ITA No. 5561/Del/2014
(i) ___________________________________ DCIT v Whirlpool of India Ltd: ITA No.
1609/Del/2013
(j) ___________________________________ United Health Group Information
Services Pvt Ltd v DCIT: ITA No. 419/Del/2014
(k)___________________________________ ITO v M/s H&S Software Development &
Knowledge Management Centre Pvt Ltd: ITA No. 6662/Del/2014  152
(l) ___________________________________ Transcend MT Services Pvt Ltd
(m) __________________________________ Accenture Services (P) Ltd v ACIT: ITA
No. 7686/Mum/2012
183\. The Ld. CIT (DR) relied on the orders of the lower authorities and
reiterated that the appellant had failed to show the differences between the
working capital levels.
184\. We have perused the orders of the lower authorities and the material on
record. We find that the WC adjustment figures were furnished by the appellant
which were disregarded by the TPO. On the issue of allowability of this
adjustment we find that this issued has been settled by this Tribunal in
numerous decisions (some of which have been cited by the Appellant) in favour
of the assessees. The desirability of making the WC adjustment has also been
endorsed by the OECD and UN Guidelines. The relevant extracts are as below:
> OECD Guidelines 2017 "2.87 In those cases where there is a correlation
> between the credit terms and the sales prices, it could be appropriate to
> reflect interest income in respect of short-term working capital within the
> calculation of the net profit indicator and/or to proceed with a working
> capital adjustment."
> UN TP Manual 2017 "...5.3.2.14. ...x..x..Adjustment might be required to
> ensure consistency of accounting standards between the controlled
> transaction and the comparable. Differences in the use of assets can be
> eliminated or reduced to a significant extent by making comparability
> adjustments on account of working capital or capacity utilization."
153
185\. Further, the issue of allowability of economic adjustment to account for
differences in working capital between the assessee and the comparables chosen
for TNMM analysis has already been adjudicated by us under Ground no. 5 for
the appeal for A.Y. 2007-08 (ITA No. 5315/Del/2011); and Ground no. 6 for the
appeal for A.Y. 2008-09 (ITA No. 52/DEL/13). We have held that this issue of
working capital adjustment is now well settled proposition and has to be
allowed. This would be equally applicable for this year as well and this
ground is accordingly allowed. The TPO is directed to allow the WC adjustment
while determining the arm's length price of the international transactions in
the software segment under TNMM. It would, however, be open to the TPO to
verify the figures given by the assessee.
186\. Since we have held that Infosys Technology Ltd. and Tata Consultancy
Services Ltd are to be excluded from the list of comparables and working
capital adjustment is to be allowed to the profit margin of the remaining
comparables, the other grounds are rendered academic in nature as the value of
international transaction in the software segment would fall within the arm's
length range.
GROUND NO. 24:The Learned AO/DRP has erred in holding that expenditure on
recruitment and training of employees leads to enduring benefit to the
appellant and in holding to allow only 1/6thof the total expenditure in the
current year and deferring the balance to be allowed in next five years.
154
GROUND NO. 25: Without prejudice to the above, Learned AO/DRP has erred in not
allowing in the year under assessment, 1/6th of the expenditure on this
account that was similarly disallowed in the preceding five assessment years
187\. We have already adjudicated this issue in the appeals for prior years
(A.Yrs. 2005-06, 2006-07, 2007-08 and 2008-09) and allowed the same. We have
held that training and recruitment expenditure is fully allowable as revenue
expenditure in the year in which it is incurred. There being no enduring
benefit it cannot be treated as capital expenditure or deferred revenue
expenditure. Ground no. 24 is therefore allowed and Ground no. 25 is dismissed
as being infructuous.
GROUND NO. 26:The Learned AO/DRP has erred in reducing the claim of
depreciation on UPS without mentioning anything in the final assessment order
and without assigning any reasons which is against the principle of natural
justice GROUND NO. 27: Without prejudice to the above ground, the Learned
AO/DRP has erred in not treating UPS connected to computers as 'computer' and
instead regarding it as an item of general 'plant and machinery' for the
purpose of allowing depreciation.
188\. We have already adjudicated this issue in the appeals for prior years
(A.Yrs. 2006-07, 2007-08 and 2008-09) and allowed the same. We have held that
it is now settled that depreciation on UPS systems is allowable at the rate of
60% under the category of 'computer' and not at 15% under the category of
'plant and machinery'. Following the same, this ground is allowed.
155
GROUND NO. 29: The Learned AO/DRP has erred in holding that loss on exchange
fluctuation amounting to Rs. 2,99,52,597 debited to P&L account is a notional
loss and is not allowable as a deduction under the provisions of the Act.
GROUND NO. 30: Without prejudice to the above ground, the Learned AO/DRP has
erred in not excluding Rs 1,74,38,690 from the taxable income of current year
being marked to market losses incurred in respect of foreign exchange
contracts which were outstanding as on 31st March 2008 and written back during
the year as same was not allowed as deduction in the assessment proceedings
for AY 2008-09.
GROUND NO. 31: Without prejudice to the above ground, the Learned AO/DRP erred
in not excluding Rs. 7,559,120 from the taxable income of current year being
marked to market losses incurred by Samsung Telecommunications India Private
Limited (now amalgamated with the appellant) in respect of foreign exchange
contracts which were outstanding as on 31st March 2008 and written back during
the year by the appellant as same was not allowed as deduction in the
assessment proceedings for AY 2008-
09\.
189\. This ground pertains to allowability of loss arising from revaluation of
open forward forex contracts on the last date of the balance sheet on account
of restatement of amounts payable and receivable in foreign exchange under the
marked to market (MTM) policy mandated under accounting norms. This issue has
already been decided by us in ITA No. 5315/Del/2011 for A.Y. 2007-08 under
Ground no. 10 and ITA No. 52/Del/2013 for A.Y. 2008-09 under Ground no. 11 and
11.1, wherein we have allowed the ground in view of the law being settled by
the Hon'ble Supreme  156 Court in CIT v. Woodward Governor India Pvt. Ltd. 312
ITR 254 (SC) in this regard. Following the same, this Ground is allowed.
GROUND NO. 32:The learned AO has erred in law and on fact in withdrawing a
deduction of Rs 27,74,04,907 claimed by the appellant under Section 10A of the
Act on the wrong pretext that mere shifting of undertaking from one location
to another tantamount to non-fulfilment of conditions laid down in section
10A(2)(II)/(III) of the Act
190\. The Ld. Counsel submitted that this issue is covered in its favour by
the order of this Tribunal in ITA No. 6508/Del/2012 in the case of Samsung
Telecommunications India Pvt. Ltd. for AY 2008-09, which merged with the
Appellant w.e.f. 1 April 2008. A copy of the order of this Tribunal in ITA No.
6508/Del/2012 dated 23/05/2017 has been placed before us. Our attention has
been drawn towards Paragraphs 19-30 of this order where the Tribunal has
examined this issue in detail and has concluded that re- location of an unit
from one place to another in order to meet shortage of space and to effect
expansion of business does not amount to splitting or reconstruction of an
existing business and would not disentitle the assessee from claiming the
benefit of Section 10A of the Act. This order of the Tribunal was subsequently
confirmed by the Hon'ble Delhi High Court on this issue. Respectfully
following the decision of the Tribunal and the Hon'ble Delhi High Court we
allow this ground of appeal.
AY 2010-11 (ITA No. 6741/DEL/14)
191\. The facts and business model in the present Assessment Year i.e. 2010-11
are similar to the facts already stated for AY 2005-06 to 2009-10. The
appellant had filed its return of income on September 30, 2010, declaring an
income of Rs.
157
7,52,20,73,240/-. A summary of international transactions entered into by the
appellant and the appellant's approach in determining their ALP is given in
the table below:
        Particulars           Most        Profit      Margin      No. of   Arm's
                            Appropri       Level      earned    comparab Length
                               ate      Indicator     by the        les    Margin
                             Method      (PLI) as     Appella   considere  as per
                            as per TP     per TP       nt as     d as per TP study
                              study       study       per TP    TP study
                                                       study
    Class I -               Transacti    Operating     8.14%         10      1.26%
    Manufacturing            onal Net      Profit/
    (Consumer                 Margin     Operating
    electronics, Home        Method       Revenue
    Appliances, Mobile      ("TNMM")    ("OP/ OR")
    Phones and Colour
    Monitors)
    Import of raw
    material, Import of
    stores and service
    spares, Export of
    raw material, service
    spares and finished
    goods, Payment of
    royalty, Import of
    fixed assets, Import
    of spares for repair
    and maintenance,
    Availing of services,
    Provision of intra-
    group services,
    Reimbursement of
    marketing expenses
    by AEs
    Class II - Trading       TNMM        OP/ OR       -0.05%         17      0.43%
    (Consumer
    electronics, Home
    Appliances, Mobile
    Phones, Colour
    Monitors and other
    IT products)
    Import of finished
    goods, Import of
    stores and service
    spares, Export of
                                                                          158
        Particulars           Most        Profit    Margin      No. of   Arm's
                            Appropri       Level    earned    comparab Length
                               ate      Indicator   by the        les    Margin
                             Method      (PLI) as   Appella   considere  as per
                            as per TP     per TP     nt as     d as per TP study
                              study       study     per TP    TP study
                                                     study
    raw material, service
    spares and finished
    goods, Service
    income,
    Reimbursement of
    marketing expenses
    by AEs
    Class III -              TNMM       Operating   14.84%       4      15.78%
    (Contract software                   Profit /
    development                         Operating
    services)                             Cost
    Provision of contract               (OP/OC)
    software
    development
    services,
    Reimbursement of
    expenses by AEs,
    Rental income
192\. The dispute in the present appeal filed by the appellant pertains to the
international transactions grouped under Class-III (Contract software
development) segment. The other international transactions pertain to Classes
I (Manufacturing - Consumer electronics, home appliances, mobile phones and
colour monitors) and Class II (Trading - Consumer electronics, home
appliances, mobile phones, colour monitors and other IT products). There is no
dispute in respect of these transactions.
193\. In Class-III (Contract software development) segment, the appellant was
engaged in the provision of contract software development services.
Transactional Net Margin Method was chosen as the most appropriate method in
its transfer pricing  159 study. The profit level indicator taken was
operating profit/operating cost. For the benchmarking exercise, an economic
analysis was carried out in the TP study leading to identification 4
uncontrolled comparable companies. Since the appellant had earned profit
margin of 14.84% which was within +/-5% of the profit margin earned by the
comparables, it was concluded that the international transactions were at
arm's length.
194\. The dispute in the present appeal filed by the appellant pertains to the
adjustments made by the TPO vide order dated 30 January 2014 on account of:
(a) alleged international transaction of Advertising, Marketing and Promotion
(AMP) expenses and (b) software development segment.
195\. Adjustments made on account of AMP expenses: The Ld. TPO proposed an
adjustment of Rs. 7,401,552,834 (Rs. 1,021,561,275 under the IT business and
Rs. 6,379,991,559 under the Non-IT business) with respect to AMP expenses
incurred by the Appellant. He was of the view that the Appellant has provided
certain services in respect of creation of marketing intangibles to its AE.
196\. ALP determination for Provision of Contract software development
services (Class III): In Class III (Contract software development services
segment), the Ld. TPO proceeded to undertake a fresh benchmarking analysis of
the uncontrolled comparable companies and arrived at a set of 17 comparables
(rejected 2 out of 4 comparables of the Appellant and introduced 15 other
comparables). The Appellant offered new comparables during the transfer
pricing proceedings which were not accepted  160 by the TPO. Final set of
comparable for benchmarking of international transaction are reproduced in the
table below:
     S.No.             Name of Comparable               Working
                                                         capital
                                                        adjusted
                                                       NPM for AY
                                                      2010-11 (%)
          1 Akshay Software Technologies Ltd.            -2.93%
          2 e-Infochips                                  63.63%
          3 Evoke Technologies Pvt Ltd                   17.16%
          4 E-Zest Solutions                             12.30%
          5 Infinite Data Systems Pvt. Ltd               82.23%
          6 Infosys Ltd.                                 43.89%
          7 Larsen & Toubro Infotech Ltd.                18.47%
          8 LGS Global Limited                            5.95%
          9 Mindtree Ltd.                                12.98%
         10 R S Software (India) Ltd                      8.66%
         11 Sasken Communication Technologies Ltd        16.35%
         12 Tata Elxsi Ltd.                              15.52%
         13 Thinksoft Global Services Limited            12.11%
         14 Thirdware Solutions Ltd.                     36.54%
         15 Cat Technologies Limited                      2.13%
         16 Maveric Systems Limited                      13.19%
         17 Persistent Systems and Solutions Ltd.        10.33%
     Arithmetic Mean (Page 61 of TP Order)              21.68%
     NPM of Samsung India (Page 5 of TP Order)          14.84%
     Adjustment (Rs.)                                 109,395,995
197\. The Ld. DRP vide order dated 21 October 2014 upheld the action of TPO
with respect to the adjustment made on account of AMP expenses. However, for
the adjustment made on account of software development segment, the Ld. DRP
directed the Ld. TPO to rectify arithmetical errors in margin computation of
comparable companies. As a consequence, the Ld. TPO rectified the margin
computation of one comparable namely Maveric Systems Limited from 13.19% to
12.75%, thereby reducing the arm's length margin from 21.68% to 21.65%.
Consequently, the adjustment was reduced to INR 10,89,09,254/-.
161
198\. Pursuant to the directions of Ld. DRP, the AO passed the final
assessment order dated 5 November 2014. The AO while incorporating the
transfer pricing adjustments made by the Ld. TPO on account of AMP expenses of
Rs. 7,40,15,52,834 and on account of software development segment of Rs.
10,89,09,254, made further additions of:
> (i) Rs. 3,01,54,176/- on account of recruitment and training expenses;
> (ii) Rs. 4,86,59,085/- on account of forward exchange contracts classified
> under forex loss;
> (iii) Rs. 2,18,19,987/- on account of deduction claimed under section 10A of
> the Act.
199\. Aggrieved by the order of the AO, the assessee has preferred the present
appeal and has prayed for adjudication of the following grounds of appeal.
GROUNDS IN APPELLANT'S APPEAL(ITA NO. 6741/DEL/14) FOR AY 2010-11
200\. GROUND NO. 1 to 11: These grounds pertain to the issue of AMP
expenditure being treated as an international transaction and adjustment being
made on the basis of the "bright line" test. We have already decided this
issue in ITA no. 3248/Del/2012 for A.Y. 2005-06 by examining the same in
detail. These grounds for this year are allowed and disposed-off on the lines
of our findings and observations made while deciding Grounds no. 3.1 to 3.6 of
ITA no. 3248/Del/2012.
ADJUSTMENT ON ACCOUNT OF SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT  162 GROUND NO. 12: The Learned
TPO/AO/DRP have erred in not accepting the economic analysis undertaken by the
appellant in respect of international transaction pertaining to provision of
contract software development services by the appellant to its AEs and
computing adjustment of INR 10,93,95,995 to the total income of the appellant
GROUND NO. 13: The Learned TPO/AO/DRP have erred, in rejecting certain
comparable companies identified by the appellant for having different
accounting year (i.e. having accounting year other than March 31 or companies
whose financial statements were for a period other than 12 months) GROUND NO.
14: The Learned TPO/AO/DRP have erred in rejecting certain comparable
companies identified by the appellant using turnover less than INR 5 crores'
as a comparability criterion. GROUND NO. 15: The Learned TPO/AO/DRP have erred
in rejecting certain comparable companies identified by the appellant using
'export earnings less than 75 percent of operating revenues' as a
comparability criterion.
GROUND NO. 16: The Learned TPO/AO/DRP have erred, in rejecting certain
comparable companies identified by the appellant on account of showing
diminishing revenues trend GROUND NO. 17: The Learned TPO/AO/DRP have erred in
rejecting certain comparable companies identified by the appellant using
'employee cost greater than 25 percent of total cost' as a comparability
criterion GROUND NO. 18: The Learned TPO/AO/DRP have erred in wrongly
rejecting certain companies from and adding certain companies to the final set
of comparables for the said transaction on an ad-hoc basis, thereby resorting
to cherry picking of comparable for benchmarking  163 GROUND NO. 19: The
Learned TPO/AO/DRP have erred in selecting certain companies (which are
earning supernormal profits) as comparable to the appellant to benchmark the
said transaction.
201\. At the outset, the Ld. Counsel submitted that out of 17 comparables
retained by the TPO after the DRP directions, the assessee is aggrieved by the
erroneous inclusion of 3 comparables (e-Infochips, Infosys, Infinite).
Furthermore, the assessee is also aggrieved by the erroneous rejection of 10
comparables whose inclusion is being sought. These comparables are Caliber
Point Business Solutions Ltd, CG-VAK software & Exports Ltd, Cigniti
Technologies Ltd, Goldstone Technologies Ltd, Helios & Matheson Information
and Technology Ltd, Quintegra Solutions Ltd, R systems International Ltd,
Saven Technologies Ltd, Silver Line Technologies Ltd, Zylog Systems Ltd.
However, it has been submitted by the Ld. Counsel that if only 3 comparables
are excluded namely Infosys Technologies Ltd, E-infochips Bangalore Ltd and
Infinite Data systems Ltd, then the assessee's international transaction would
be at arm's length and the rest of the grounds will be rendered academic in
nature. We therefore proceed to examine the validity of this claim.
202\. The Ld. Counsel made following submissions with respect to rejection of
the three comparable companies:
E-Infochips Bangalore Limited ("E-Infochips")
(a) The Ld. Counsel argued that E-Infochips is functionally dissimilar as the
company is engaged in both software development and IT enabled services. He
pointed out that in the Annual Report, segmental information is not available
and he drew the attention of the Bench to Page No. 63 of the  164 Annual
Report where this fact has been clearly stated and the segmental information
in respect of software development and ITES has not been given.
(b) The Ld. Counsel submitted that the Ld. TPO included the said comparable by
merely stating that this company cannot be said to be providing IT enabled
services since its communication costs are very low and that merely having
supernormal profits is not a criterion for rejection. The Ld. Counsel argued
that that the Ld. TPO's conclusions are based on surmises and are contrary to
the facts on record as evident from the Annual Report of the company. He
further submitted that the exclusion of this company was sought not on the
basis of super normal profits but on the basis of functional dissimilarity and
absence of segmental information.
(c) The Ld. Counsel placed reliance on the judgment delivered by the
coordinate Bench in the case of Steria India Ltd. (ITA No.107/Del/2016)
wherein it has been held that the company is not functionally comparable as it
is engaged in both software development and IT enabled services for which no
bifurcation is available (as segmental information is not available). This
judgment has also been upheld by the Hon'ble Delhi High Court (ITA 762/2017).
(d) The Ld. Counsel also placed reliance on the coordinate Bench ruling in the
case of Headstrong Services (India) Pvt. Ltd. (ITA No. 714/Del/2015).
(e) The Ld. Counsel further placed reliance on the following judgments wherein
E-Infochips has been held to be functionally dissimilar and non-comparable to
a software development company:
165
• Pegasystems worldwide India Pvt Ltd. (ITA No. 1758/Hyd/2014) • Intoto
Software India Pvt. Ltd. (1921/Hyd/2014 & 25/Hyd/2015) • Allscripts India Pvt.
Ltd. (ITA No. 771/Ahd/2014) • Freescale Semiconductor India Pvt Ltd (ITA
No1263 /Del/2015) • Headstrong Services (India) Pvt. Ltd. (ITA
No.714/Del/2015) • Stryker Global Technology Center Pvt Ltd v DCIT (ITA No.
6866/Del/2014)
204\. The Ld. CIT (DR) emphasized the fact that the communication expenses of
this company are at a very low level and accordingly, it is highly probable
that this is not an ITES company because ITES companies typically incur
substantial amount of communication expenses to deliver their services.
205\. We have heard both the sides and perused the Annual Report of
E-Infochips Bangalore. From the perusal of Page 63 of the Annual Report it is
evident that this company has reported its results under a single segment
which has been stated to be including Software as well as ITeS activities
without any bifurcation being provided. It is a fundamental principle of
transfer pricing that, functionally different spheres like software and ITeS
segments are not to be treated as comparable functions. A company operating in
one sector cannot be taken as comparable to another company in the other
sector. Only if segmental profit margins for software and ITeS segments are
separately provided in  166 the audited results, the results of the software
segment can be taken for comparison with the software segment of the assessee.
It is now well settled that in the absence of segmental margins, combined
entity level results cannot be used for a TNMM analysis. In Headstrong
Services (supra), this Tribunal while examining the comparability of
E-Infochips Bangalore to a software company held as under:
12.2. After considering the rival submission and perused the relevant material
on record, we find from the Annual Report of this company available on page
352 of the paper book that its P & L Account shows `Income from software
services' as one unit at Rs. 43,04,66,481/-. Schedules 7 gives break up of
this income with "Income from Software Services" at Rs. 37.13 crore and
"Consultancy Charges" at Rs. 5.90 crore. Segmental information of this company
is available on page 66 of its Annual Report which states that: "The Company
is primarily engaged in Software Development and I.T. enabled services which
is considered the only reportable business segment". This indicates that the
revenue from Software Development and ITES has been clubbed by this company
which also includes consultancy charges. No doubt Consultancy charges in
relation to Software Development are part of overall Software Development, but
the inclusion of ITES in the overall segment frustrates the comparability. We
are currently dealing with the international transaction of `Provision of
Software Development services' and the international transaction of ITES is
separate which has also been benchmarked distinctly. In our considered
opinion, e- Infochips Bangalore Ltd. having a pool of both software
developments and ITES segments into the overall segment  167 designated as
`Software development', cannot be considered as comparable on entity level
with the international transaction of `Software development' of the assesse.
We, therefore, order for the exclusion of this company from the list of
comparables."
206\. We also do not find merit in the contention raised by the Revenue that
since the communication expenses shown in the P&L account is at a low level,
the Company should be presumed to be not be engaged in ITeS. Such a conclusion
is not based on evidence but is a mere speculation. In the face of a clear
disclosure in the Annual Report, a speculative approach is to be discarded.
We, accordingly, hold that E-Infochips Bangalore is to be excluded from the
list of comparables for the software segment.
Infosys Technologies Limited-
207\. The Ld. Counsel submitted that the facts pertaining to this comparable
and the Appellant remain the same as in the prior year i.e. A. Yr. 2009-10:
(a) As per the Annual Report, the Company provides end-to-end business
solutions that leverage cutting-edge technology, thereby enabling clients to
enhance business performance. The Company provides solutions that span the
entire software lifecycle encompassing technical consulting, design,
development, re-engineering, maintenance, systems integration, package
evaluation and implementation, testing and infrastructure management services.
In addition, the Company offers software products for the banking industry.
(b) The Ld. TPO/ AO included this company as a comparable for the reason that
it is engaged in software development services. The Ld. DRP upheld order of
the Ld. TPO/ AO.
168
(c) The Ld. Counsel pointed out that there are significant intangible assets
and R & D activities leading to creation of IP for this company. R&D is
conducted at the various Software Engineering & technology Labs (SET Labs) at
Infosys. The SET Labs are engaged in R&D in various technologies, which inter
alia includes:
> • Next generation of software engineering • Convergence of services, network
> and applications • Text analysis, machinelearning, symbolic and quantitative
> approaches to Reasoning and Decision Making, and Task Oriented Knowledge
> Management Systems • Virtualization, grid models for computing efficiencies
> and cloud computing.
• Application security requirements, etc. The efforts of the SET Labs have led
to creation of R&D and filing of patents
(d) The Ld. Counsel pointed out that Infosys has an established brand presence
which is one of the most important intangible assets. The company itself
accepts this in its Annual Report. He further pointed out that from a perusal
of Infosys' Annual Report, it has claimed that it is the most reputed and
admired company in India.
(e) The Ld. Counsel argued that Infosys was engaged in diversified services
apart from software services income. Revenues is also derived from sale of
software products & on- site services. As per the Annual Report, the Company
provides end-to-end business solutions that leverage cutting-edge  169
technology, thereby enabling clients to enhance business performance. The
Company provides solutions that span the entire software lifecycle
encompassing technical consulting, design, development, re-engineering,
maintenance, systems integration, package evaluation and implementation,
testing and infrastructure management services. In addition, the Company
offers software products for the banking industry.
208\. The Ld. CIT(DR) relied on the orders of the Ld. TPO and DRP and
contended that scale, size, brand may impact profits but not profit margins.
He reiterated that there is no positive correlation between turnover and
profit margin.
209\. We have heard both the parties, perused the orders of the TPO and the
DRP and analysed the Annual Report of Infosys Technologies Ltd. The facts
pertaining to the assessee's software segment and the business results of
Infosys remain the same as in prior year. In appeal of the prior A.Y. 2009-10
(ITA No.1567/Del/2014) we have analyzed the suitability of this company as a
comparable to the appellant's software segment and held that it has to be
excluded from the set of comparables. Following the same, we hold that Infosys
Technologies Ltd is to be excluded.
Infinite Data Systems Private Limited
210\. The Ld. Counsel argued that this company is functionally dissimilar to
the Appellant. He pointed out that as per the Annual Report, the company is a
full-fledged IT consulting organization and provides services in the nature of
technical consulting, design and development of software, maintenance, systems
integration,  170 implementation, testing and infrastructure management
services. Further, revenue is primarily derived from technical support and
infrastructure management services. The Ld. Counsel submitted that the Ld. TPO
has accepted this company as a comparable merely on the basis that services
provided by this company were in the nature of software development services.
The Ld. DRP upheld the order of the Ld. TPO disregarding the disclosures made
in the Annual Report of this company wherein it has been clearly mentioned
that this is a highly diversified company. The Ld. Counsel also pointed out
that there was exceptional growth in operations, revenue and profits. He
submitted a year-on-year analysis for the period FY 2007-08 to 2009-10 which
is as under:
     Particulars       FY 2007-   FY 2008-    FY 2009-10   FY 2010-11
                          08         09
     Sales revenue       NIL      47,407,301 383,160,901 527,524,561
     Year-on-year                     -        708.23%        37.67%
     increase (%)
     Employee            NIL      18,725,836 109,151,595 143,902,273
     remuneration
     Year-on-year                     -        482.29%        31.83%
     increase (%)
Profit before (49,999) 9,851,316 157,310,476 337,737,471 tax Year-on-year -
1496.85% 114.495% increase (%) Debtors NIL 50,097,205 131,326,992 225,170,269
Year-on-year - 162.14% 71.46% increase (%) The Ld. Counsel submitted that the
fact that this company has witnessed widely fluctuating growth rates (as
depicted above) is  171 indicative of the fact that the company was facing
exceptional or peculiar circumstances and risks and cannot be said to be
representative of the Indian software industry. In this regard, the Ld.
Counsel placed reliance on the jurisdictional ITAT ruling in the case of M/s.
Stryker Global Technology Center Private Limited vs. DCIT, (ITA
No.6866/Del./2014) wherein the ITAT has examined the functional profile of
Infinite Data Systems for AY 2011-12 and excluded it as a comparable. He also
placed reliance on the jurisdictional ITAT ruling in the case of M/s Freescale
Semiconductor India Pvt Ltd (ITA No1263 /Del/2015).
211\. The Ld. CIT (DR) vehemently opposed the exclusion of the abovementioned
comparable and supported the order of the TPO and the DRP. He submitted that
though the nature of services is diversified many of the services rendered by
this company fall under the broad category of software development.
212\. We have heard the two sides and perused the orders of the TPO and the
DRP. We have also perused the Annual Report of Infinite Data Systems Ltd. The
business activity of the Company has been provided at Page 13 of the Annual
Report as: full-fledged IT consulting organization and provides services in
the nature of technical consulting, design and development of software,
maintenance, systems integration, implementation, testing and infrastructure
management services. The Annual Report further states that, "Revenue is
primarily derived from technical support and infrastructure management
services. The company has entered into contracts with customers where the
pricing is on time and material basis. Revenues from these contracts are
recognized as and when the related services are  172 rendered and related
costs are incurred. Revenue from the end of the last billing to the Balance
Sheet Date is recognized as unbilled revenues." The fact that this company is
deriving most of its revenue from technical support and infra management
services make it clear that software development activity is a minor and
subsidiary activity of this company. Further, the Annual Report does not
contain segmental bifurcation of profitability between technical support
segment and the software segment. Both the activities are clubbed together. In
the decision cited by the Appellant in the case of Stryker Global Technology
Center Pvt. Ltd. (supra), a coordinate Bench of this Tribunal has examined the
validity of Infinite Data Systems Pvt. Ltd. as a comparable to a software
company. The Tribunal ordered the rejection of this company on the ground of
functional dissimilarity by observing as under:
"24. The comparability of Infinite was also examined in Sun Life India Service
Centre (P.) Ltd. (supra) with Sun Life India Service Centre (P.) Ltd. which is
a routine software development and service provider and held to be not a
suitable comparable as it is a full-fledged IT consulting organisation and
provides services in the nature of technical consulting, design and
development of software, maintenance, system irrigation, implementation,
testing and infrastructure management services. So, in view of the matter, we
are of the considered view that Infinite is not a suitable comparable vis-à-
vis assessee company, hence ordered to be excluded."
In light of the aforesaid we order the exclusion of this company from the list
of comparables.
213\. The other grounds of the software segment are not being adjudicated as
being academic in nature in view of the submission made by the Ld. Counsel
regarding the international transaction of  173 software segment being at
arm's length on the basis of deletion of the three aforesaid comparables,
viz., Infosys Technologies, E- Infochips Bangalore and Infinite Data Systems.
GROUND NO. 25: The Learned AO/DRP has erred in holding that expenditure on
recruitment and training of employees leads to enduring benefit to the
appellant and in holding to allow only 1/6th of the total expenditure in the
current year and deferring the balance to be allowed in next five years GROUND
NO. 26: Without prejudice to the above, Learned AO/DRP has erred in not
allowing in the year under assessment, 1/6th of the expenditure on this
account that was similarly disallowed in the preceding five assessment years.
214\. We have already adjudicated this issue in the appeals for prior years
(A.Yrs. 2005-06, 2006-07 and 2007-08, 2008-09 and 2009-10) and allowed the
same. We have held that training and recruitment expenditure is fully
allowable as revenue expenditure in the year in which it is incurred. There
being no enduring benefit it cannot be treated as capital expenditure or
deferred revenue expenditure. Ground no. 25 is, therefore, allowed and Ground
no. 26 is dismissed as being infructuous.
GROUND NO. 27:The Learned AO/DRP has erred in holding that loss on exchange
fluctuation amounting to Rs. 4,86,59,085 debited to P&L account is a notional
loss and is not allowable as a deduction under the provisions of the Act.
GROUND NO. 28: Without prejudice to the above ground, the Learned AO/DRP has
erred in not excluding INR 29,952,597 from the taxable income of current year
being marked to market losses incurred in respect of foreign exchange
contracts which were  174 outstanding as on 31st March 2009 and written back
during the year as same was not allowed as deduction in the assessment
proceedings for AY 2009-10.
215\. This ground pertains to allowability of loss arising from revaluation of
open forward forex contracts the last date of the balance sheet on account of
restatement of amounts payable and receivable in foreign exchange under the
marked to market (MTM) policy mandated under accounting norms. This issue has
already been decided by us in ITA No. 5315/Del/2011 for A.Yr. 2007-08 under
Ground no. 10, ITA No. 52/Del/2013 for A. Yr. 2008-09 under Ground no. 11 and
11.1 and ITA No. 1567/DEL/14 for A. Yr. 2009-10 under Ground no. 29-31 wherein
we have allowed the ground in view of the law being settled by the Hon'ble
Supreme Court in CIT v. Woodward Governor India Pvt. Ltd. 312 ITR 254 (SC) in
this regard. Following the same, this Ground is allowed. Ground no. 28 being
infructuous is dismissed.
GROUND NO. 29:The Learned AO has erred in law and on fact in withdrawing a
deduction of INR 21,819,987 claimed by the appellant under section 10A of the
Act on the wrong pretext that mere shifting of undertaking from one location
to another tantamount to non-fulfilment of conditions laid down in section
10A(2)(ii)/(iii) of the Act
216\. This issue has already been decided by us in ITA No. 1567/DEL/14 for A.
Yr. 2009-10 under Ground no. 32 wherein we have allowed the ground. Following
the same, this Ground is allowed.
AY 2011-12 (ITA No. 868/DEL/2016 and ITA No. 2511/DEL/2018 arising out of
order passed u/s 154)  175
217\. The facts and business model in the present Assessment Year i.e.,
2011-12 are similar to the facts already stated for AY 2005-06 to 2010-11. The
appellant had filed its return of income on November 29, 2011, declaring an
income of Rs. 1,73,33,95,170/-. A summary of international transactions
entered into by the appellant and the appellant's approach in determining
their ALP is given in the table below:
> Particulars Most Profit Margin No. of Arm's Appropr Level earned compara
> Length iate Indicat by the bles Margin Method or Appell consider as per as
> per (PLI) ant as ed as per TP study TP as per per TP TP study study TP study
> study Class I - Transac Operati 1.77 9 1.43% Manufacturing tional ng
> (Consumer Net Profit/ Electronics, Home Margin Operati Appliances, Mobile
> Method ng Phones and Colour ('TNMM') Revenu monitors) e (OP/ Import of raw
> material, OR) Import of stores and service spares, Export of raw material,
> Export of stores, spares and semi-
finished goods, Payment of royalty, Import of fixed assets, Import of spares
for repair and maintenance, Provision of intra-group services, Availing of
services, Reimbursement of marketing expenses by AEs  176 Particulars Most
Profit Margin No. of Arm's Appropr Level earned compara Length iate Indicat by
the bles Margin Method or Appell consider as per as per (PLI) ant as ed as per
TP study TP as per per TP TP study study TP study study Class II - Trading
TNMM OP/ 1.39% 19 0.67% (Consumer electronics, OR Home Appliances, Mobile
Phones, Colour Monitors and other IT products) Import of finished goods,
Import of stores and service spares, Service income, Reimbursement of
marketing expenses by AEs Class III - Provision of TNMM Operati 15.01% 22
8.97% contract software ng development services Profit / Operati ng Cost (OP/O
C)
218\. The dispute in the present appeal filed by the appellant pertains to the
international transactions grouped under Class-III (Contract software
development) segment. The other international transactions pertain to Classes
I (Manufacturing - Consumer electronics, home appliances, mobile phones and
colour monitors) and Class II (Trading - Consumer electronics, home
appliances, mobile phones, colour monitors and other IT products). There is no
dispute in respect of these transactions. In Class-III (Contract  177 software
development) segment, the appellant was engaged in the provision of contract
software development services. Transactional Net Margin Method was chosen as
the most appropriate method in its transfer pricing study. The profit level
indicator taken was operating profit/operating cost. For the benchmarking
exercise, an economic analysis was carried out in the TP study leading to
identification 22 uncontrolled comparable companies. Since the appellant had
earned profit margin of 15.01% which was higher than the profit margin earned
by the comparables, it was concluded that the international transactions were
at arm's length.
219\. The dispute in the present appeal filed by the appellant pertains to the
adjustments made by the TPO vide order dated 29 January 2015 on account of (a)
alleged international transaction of Advertising, Marketing and Promotion
(AMP) expenses and (b) software development segment.
220\. Adjustments made on account of AMP expenses: The Ld. TPO was of the view
that the Appellant has provided certain services in respect of creation of
marketing intangibles to its AE. Therefore, he proposed an adjustment of Rs.
11,884,138,456 (Rs. 1,222,238,922 under the IT business and Rs. 10,661,899,534
under the Non-IT business) with respect to AMP expenses incurred by the
appellant. The Ld. TPO applied the bright line test ("BLT") to compare the
AMP/sales ratio of the appellant with that of the comparable companies and
application of a mark-up equivalent to SBI's PLR.
221\. ALP determination for Provision of contract software development
services (Class III): In Class III (software  178 development services)
segment, the Ld. TPO proceeded to undertake a fresh benchmarking analysis of
the uncontrolled comparable companies by modifying the filters and arrived at
a fresh set of comparables. He selected 11 out of the 26 comparables provided
by the appellant (i.e. 22 comparables identified as per TP Study and 4
comparables identified by the assessee during the course of TP assessment
proceedings) and introduced 8 additional comparables. The final sets of
comparables for benchmarking international transaction are reproduced in the
table below:
     S.No.               Name of Comparable                  Working capital
                                                              adjusted NCP
                                                             for AY 2011-12
                                                                   (%)
          1 Akshay Software Technologies Ltd.                     3.63%
          2 E-Infochips Limited                                  56.42%
          3 Evoke Technologies Pvt Ltd                           10.23%
          4 E-Zest Solutions                                     38.19%
          5 Infosys Technologies Ltd.                            45.11%
          6 Larsen & Toubro Infotech Ltd.                        21.22%
          7 LGS Global Limited                                   13.58%
          8 Persistent    Systems   and   Solutions    Ltd       22.80%
            (Merged)
          9 Persistent Systems Ltd.                              24.10%
         10 R S Software (India) Ltd                             18.07%
         11 Sasken Communication Technologies Ltd                26.68%
         12 Wipro Technologies Services Ltd. (Merged)            55.37%
         13 Celstream Technologies Pvt. Ltd.                     15.27%
         14 Acropetal Technologies Ltd. (Seg)                    21.34%
         15 Mindtree Ltd.(Seg)                                   11.22%
                                                                    179
     S.No.               Name of Comparable              Working capital
                                                          adjusted NCP
                                                         for AY 2011-12
                                                               (%)
           16 Sankhya Infotech Limited(Seg)                   24.13%
           17 Tata ElxsiLtd(Seg)                              13.34%
           18 Thirdware Sol (Seg)                             19.54%
           19 Zylog Systems Limited                           27.56%
    Arithmetic Mean (Page 84 of TP Order)                     24.62%
    NCP of Samsung India (Page 5 of TP Order)                 15.01%
    Adjustment (Rs.)                                       216,107,588
220\. The Ld. DRP vide order dated 23 December 2015 upheld adjustments made by
the Ld. TPO and stated that incurring AMP expenses constitutes an
international transaction. The Ld. DRP directed for exclusion of routine
selling and distribution expenses while computing the AMP adjustment of
comparables. The Ld. DRP also directed for imputing the said adjustment using
AMP to gross profit ('GP') ratio and the mark-up on excessive AMP expense to
be as per sub-clause (ii) to Rule 10(1)(c) i.e. the GP/Sales of comparable
companies, thus selected. As a consequence, the Ld. TPO passed an order dated
28 January 2016, giving effect to the directions of the Ld. DRP, wherein the
adjustment was reduced to Rs. 394,368,561 (i.e. Rs. 313,105,771 under the non-
IT segment and Rs. 81,262,790 under the IT segment).
221\. ALP determination for Provision of contract software development
services (Class III): The Ld. DRP directed to exclude Infosys Ltd. and Sankhya
Infotech Ltd. as a comparable for Class III segment. Accordingly, the Ld. TPO
passed an order dated 28  180 January 2016, giving effect to the directions of
DRP, wherein the adjustment was revised to Rs. 189,797,464, with a revised
arm's length NCP of 23.45% as against 24.62% determined by the Ld. TPO
earlier.
Accordingly, the total adjustments pursuant to Ld. DRP's directions are
tabulated as under:
> Particulars Amounts as per TP Amounts pursuant order (In Rs.) to DRP
> directions (In Rs.) Adjustments made on account 11,884,138,456 394,368,561
> of AMP expenses Adjustment on account of 216,107,588 189,797,464 provision
> of contract software development services Total 12,100,246,044 584,166,025
222\. Pursuant to the directions of Ld. DRP, the AO passed the final
assessment order dated 28 January 2015. The AO while incorporating the
transfer pricing adjustments made by the TPO, made further additions of:
i) Rs. 143,127,352 on account of disallowance in respect of foreign exchange
contracts classified under forex loss
ii) Rs. 889,984,961 on account of disallowance of deduction claimed under
section 40(a)(i) of the Act.
223\. The Ld. TPO initiated rectification proceedings suo-moto vide notices
dated 6 April 2016 and 12 March 2018. In response to these notices, the
Appellant filed submissions contesting the rectifications so proposed by the
Ld. TPO dated 28 April 2016, 19 May 2016 and 22 March 2018. A rectification
order dated 27  181 March 2018 was passed by the Ld. TPO ignoring the
Appellant's contentions and enhanced the total adjustment amount as below:
224\. Adjustments made on account of AMP expenses: The Ld. TPO enhanced the
AMP adjustment from Rs. 394,368,561 (i.e. Rs. 313,105,771 under the non-IT
segment and Rs. 81,262,790 under the IT segment) to Rs. 1,936,311,967 (i.e.
Rs. 1,936,311,967 under the non-IT segment and 'nil' under the IT segment) on
account of:
\- Revision in the AMP/ Gross Profit ('GP') ratio of comparable companies to
13.14% from 22.47% [on account of revision in the AMP/ GP margins of two
comparables namely Dynalog (India) Ltd. and Wep Peripherals Ltd. from
(427.78%) and 21.36% to 3.65% and 7.48% respectively.]
\- Revision in the AMP/ GP ratio of SIEL to 22.82% from 27.55%.
225\. ALP determination for Provision of contract software development
services (Class III): The Ld. TPO re-computed the operating margin of SIEL by
treating foreign exchange gain as operating income instead of adjusting the
same against operating expenses. In the re-computation of operating margins of
comparable companies, he further treated foreign exchange gain and amounts
written back as operating. Accordingly, the adjustment under this segment was
enhanced from Rs. 189,797,464 to Rs. 220,348,249.
226\. The AO passed an order dated 30 March 2018 incorporating the above
revised adjustments made by the Ld. TPO vide his rectified order and enhanced
the assessed income to Rs.
182
500,44,30,490. Aggrieved by the order passed by the AO, the Assessee has
preferred the present appeal and has prayed for adjudication of the following
grounds of appeal.
GROUNDS IN APPELLANT'S APPEAL (ITA NO. /DEL/16) FOR AY 2011-12
227\. GROUND NO. 1 to 12 and all the Grounds in ITA No. 2511/DEL/2018 arising
out of order passed u/s 154): These grounds pertain to the issue of AMP
expenditure being treated as an international transaction and adjustment being
made on the basis of the "bright line" test. During this year as well the
"bright line" test has been used albeit in a slightly different manner.
Instead of AMP/Sales ratio, the TPO has used AMP/GP ratio to overcome the
hurdle posed by the Hon'ble Delhi High Court decision of Sony Ericsson (supra)
where the "bright line" test has been held to be contrary to law and
impermissible. In our view the approach by the TPO in treating the AMP
expenditure as a separate international transaction based on a claim that
"excessive" expenditure has been incurred remains the same as in prior years.
Only the bright-line has varied from AMP/Sales to AMP/GP. We have already
decided this issue in ITA no. 3248/Del/2012 for A.Y. 2005-06 by examining the
same in detail. These grounds for this year are allowed and disposed-off on
the lines of our findings and observations made while deciding Grounds no. 3.1
to 3.6 of ITA no. 3248/Del/2012.
ADJUSTMENT ON ACCOUNT OF SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT GROUND NO. 13: The Learned
TPO/AO/DRP have erred in computing adjustment of INR 18,97,97,464 to the total
income of the appellant on account of adjustment in ALP of the international
183 transaction pertaining to provision of software development services
entered into by the appellant with its AE GROUND NO. 14: The Learned
TPO/AO/DRP have erred in rejecting certain comparable companies identified by
the appellant using 'export earnings less than 75 percent of operating
revenues' as a comparability criterion GROUND NO. 15: The Learned TPO/AO/DRP
have erred, in law and on facts and circumstances of the case, by rejecting
certain comparable companies identified by the appellant on account of showing
diminishing revenues trend GROUND NO. 16: The Learned TPO/AO/DRP have erred in
rejecting certain comparable companies identified by the appellant using
'related party filter less than 25 percent of total cost' as a comparability
criterion even though they satisfy the same on a consolidated basis GROUND NO.
17: The Learned TPO/AO/DRP have erred, in rejecting certain comparable
companies identified by the appellant for having different accounting year
(i.e. having accounting year other than March 31 or companies whose financial
statements were for a period other than 12 months) GROUND NO. 18:The Learned
TPO/AO/DRP have erred in selecting certain companies (which are functionally
dissimilar or which are earning super normal profits) as comparable to the
appellant to benchmark the said transaction GROUND NO. 19: The Learned
TPO/AO/DRP have erred in wrongly rejecting certain companies from and adding
certain companies to the final set of comparables for the said transaction on
an adhoc basis (including functional comparability), thereby resorting to
cherry picking of comparable for benchmarking  184
228\. At the outset, the Ld. Counsel submitted that despite there being
numerous grounds against the adjustment made in the software segment, the
appellant was primarily aggrieved by the inclusion and exclusion of certain
comparables by the TPO. However, if only 2 comparables are excluded namely
E-Infochips Ltd and Wipro Technologies Services Ltd and 2 comparables are
included namely, R Systems International Ltd and Caliber Point Business
Solutions Limited, then the assessee's international transaction would be at
arm's length and the rest of the grounds will be rendered academic.
Accordingly, we proceed to examine the validity of these four comparables.
229\. The Ld. Counsel made his submissions with respect to the following
comparable companies:
E-Infochips Limited ("E-Infochips)
(a) The Ld. Counsel contended that E-Infochips should be excluded because the
company fails TPO's filter of software service income to total income filter
of at least 75% since the revenues from software development service accounts
for 73.38% as evident from the below table:
           Particulars           Amounts (In Reference
                                 INR)
Income from software 192,109,661 Page no. 64 of annual development (A) report
for AY 2011-12 (FY 2010-11) Income from 260,384,251 Page no. 33 of annual
operations (B) report for AY 2011-12 (FY 2010-11) Revenue from 73% comparable
185 segment (A/B)
(b) The Ld. Counsel further submitted that the company fails TPO's filter of
export income to total income filter of at least 75% - Revenues from export of
software development service accounts for 62.77% as is evident from the table
below:
          Particulars          Amounts     Reference
                               (In INR)
Income from export 163,443,751 Page no. 68 of annual of software services
report for AY 2011-12 (A) Income from 260,384,251 Page no. 33 of annual
operations (B) report for AY 2011-12 Revenue from 62.77% comparable segment
(A/B)
(c) The Ld. Counsel argued that E-Infochips incurred significant R & D
expenses of 4.15% of the total cost during the year whereas the Appellant has
not incurred any amount towards R&D in this segment. He further contended that
the company is functionally dissimilar to the Appellant on account of
undertaking diversified business operations since it has derived income from
hardware and such income accounts for 15% of the total revenue. It is evident
from the table below:
          Particulars            Amounts (In Reference
                                 INR)
          Income            from 39,248,562 Page no. 62 of annual
          computer                           report for AY 2011-12
          hardware(A)
          Income             from 260,384,251 Page no. 33 of annual
          operations (B)                      report for AY 2011-12
          Revenue           from     15%
                                                                            186
             comparable
             segment (A/B)
(d) He further pointed out that the company has reported only one segment
despite undertaking diversified operations. He placed reliance on various
judgments wherein it has been held that E-Infochips ought to be excluded as it
is involved in products and no segmental data is available. The list of
decisions are as below:
i) Saxo India (P.) Ltd. v. ACIT, Circle 22(2), also upheld by Hon'ble Delhi
High Court in Pr. CIT v. Saxo India (P.) Ltd. (ITA No. 682/2016); ii) Intoto
Software India Pvt. Ltd. (ITA No. 1196/HYD/2010); iii) Conexant Systems India
Pvt. Ltd. (ITA No. 1429/HYD/2010 and 1978/HYD/2011); iv) Virtusa India Private
Limited (ITA No. 1962/HYD/2011; v) EMC Software and Services (India) Private
Limited (IT(TP)A No. 273/Bang/2016); vi)Philips India Ltd (ITA No.863 &
539/Kol/2016) wherein it was held that the company is not functionally
comparable as it is engaged in diversified business (software development,
hardware maintenance, IT consultancy), does not have segmental information (to
carve out its ITeS), was involved in R&D, and had an exceptional year (grew at
rate 5 times more than industry average).
230\. Ld. CIT (DR) submitted that E-Infochips was included by the Ld. TPO for
the reason that it is engaged in software development. The Ld. TPO was of the
view that revenue from IT consultancy and software development taken together
satisfy the service income filter. The Ld. CIT (DR) vehemently defended the
187 order of Ld. TPO/DRP and contended that E-Infochips was rightly included
for the reasons mentioned in their orders.
231\. We have heard both the sides and perused the material on record. We find
that this company (E-Infochips) fails the filters applied by the TPO himself.
The TPO has eliminated companies from his list of comparables whose service
income constitutes less than 75% of its total revenues. Similarly, the export
filter of 75% is also not met. The details extracted from the Annual Report
have been examined by us and we agree that these filters are not met. We also
note that this company derives a material part of its revenues from computer
hardware which is commingled with the revenues from software and the Annual
Report does not provide bifurcation of profitability between hardware and
software development. In such a situation this company is not suitable to be
taken up for a TNMM comparison.
232\. We also draw strength from various decisions of the Tribunal in this
respect where this comparable was held to be incomparable to a software
service company for the reasons discussed above. These aspects have been
discussed in detail in the decision of a coordinate bench of this Tribunal in
Saxo India Pvt. Ltd. (supra) and Intoto India Pvt. Ltd. (supra). In view of
the above factual aspects and the numerous decisions of this Tribunal, we hold
that E-Infochips is not a suitable comparable and is directed to be excluded
from the list of comparables.
Wipro Technologies Limited ("Wipro Technology")
233\. The Ld. Counsel pointed out that, as per the Annual Report (Page No. 38)
of Wipro Technology for AY 2011-12, Wipro Technology is engaged in providing
IT software solutions /  188 maintenance and technology infrastructure support
services to Citi Group entities globally. He contended that Wipro Technology
is functionally dissimilar on account of undertaking diversified business
operations comprising software related support services, primarily information
technology software solutions / maintenance and technology infrastructure
support services unlike the Appellant who is engaged in software development
support services only. Reliance was placed by the Ld. Counsel on the following
judgments that hold that in absence of segmental details, a company cannot be
taken into account for comparability analysis:
> • LG Soft India (P.) Ltd. Vs. DCIT (2014) 48 taxmann.com 237 (Bangalore-
> Trib.) • M/s British Marine PLC-India Branch vs. DCIT(IT)-
> 1(3)(2) (ITA No.1908/MUM/2016) The Ld. Counsel further contended that Wipro
> has significant related party transactions. As per the annual report of the
> Wipro Technologies Ltd. of FY 2009-10, Wipro Limited, the holding company of
> the Wipro Technologies Ltd., has acquired all the interest held by Citigroup
> Inc. in Citi Technology Services Limited (Subsequently renamed as Wipro
> Technology Services Limited) with effect from 21 January 2009. On the same
> date, Wipro Limited entered a master service agreement with Citigroup Inc.,
> erstwhile holding company of Wipro Technology for providing technology
> infrastructure services and application development and maintenance services
> for a period of six years. Therefore, all the transactions between Wipro
> Technologies Ltd and Citigroup Inc. would qualify as an international
> transaction within the  189 meaning of Section 92B(2) of the Act. The Ld.
> Counsel placed reliance on Saxo India Pvt. Ltd. (ITA No. 6148/Del/2015)
> which has further been upheld by the Hon'ble jurisdictional High Court vide
> order dated 28.09.2016 in ITA No. 682/2016 (Pr.CIT, Delhi-8 v. Saxo India
> Pvt. Ltd.): In this case, the relevant para is reproduced below for ready
> reference:
"16.5. Adverting to the facts of the instant case, we find that Wipro
Technology Services Ltd. earned a revenue from Master services agreement with
Citigroup Inc. for the delivery of technology infrastructure services. This
agreement was, in fact, executed between the assessee's AE, Wipro Ltd., and
Citigroup Inc., a third person. This unfolds that the transaction of earning
revenue from software development support and maintenance services by Wipro
Technology Services Ltd., is an international transaction because of the
application of section 92B(2) i.e., there exists a prior agreement in relation
to such transaction between Citigroup Inc. (third person) and Wipro Ltd.
(associated enterprise). In the light of this structure of transaction, it
ceases to be uncontrolled transaction and, hence, Wipro Technology Services
Ltd., disqualifies to become a comparable uncontrolled transaction for the
purposes of inclusion in the final list of comparables under Rule
10B(1)(e)(ii). We, therefore, direct removal of this company from the list of
comparables."
The Ld. Counsel also relied on the following decisions of the coordinate Bench
of this Tribunal wherein exclusion of this comparable has been upheld in the
case of a software development company:
190
> • Intoto Software India Private Ltd. [2013] 35 taxmann.com 421 (Hyderabad -
> Trib.) • M/s. FCG Software Services (India) Pvt. Ltd. Vs. ITO, I.T(T.P)
> A.No. l242/Bang/2012 • Vodafone India Services Vs. DCIT, ITA No.7140
> /Mum/2012 • Xander Advisors India Pvt. Ltd., Vs. ACIT, ITA No.5840/Del/2012
> • NEC Technologies India P Ltd. (ITA No. 6283/Del/2015)
234\. Ld. CIT (DR) has contended that the TPO included Wipro Technology as a
comparable for the reason that it is providing specialized services within
software development and is not selling products and thus, it is comparable to
the Appellant. The Ld. CIT (DR) contended that the order of Ld. TPO was
correct, and Wipro Technology was rightly included for the reasons mentioned
in his order.
235\. We have examined the facts relating to Wipro Technology Services and the
contention raised by the two sides. We find that this company has been
consistently held to be incomparable on account of the peculiar facts
surrounding its history. This company was earlier a subsidiary of Wipro Ltd.
and had a long term service contract with Citi group. Subsequently, it was
acquired by Citi group and the long term service contract continued post
acquisition. On these facts, the revenues earned by Wipro Technology Services
from Citigroup acquire the dimension of "controlled" transactions between
related parties within the  191 meaning of Section 92B(2) of the Act. This
issue was first examined and adjudicated by a coordinate bench of this
Tribunal in Saxo India Pvt. Ltd. wherein the Tribunal observed as below:
> "16.5. Adverting to the facts of the instant case, we find that Wipro
> Technology Services Ltd. earned a revenue from Master services agreement
> with Citigroup Inc. for the delivery of technology infrastructure services.
> This agreement was, in fact, executed between the assessee's AE, Wipro Ltd.,
> and Citigroup Inc., a third person. This unfolds that the transaction of
> earning revenue from software development support and maintenance services
> by Wipro Technology Services Ltd., is an international transaction because
> of the application of section 92B(2) i.e., there exists a prior agreement in
> relation to such transaction between Citigroup Inc. (third person) and Wipro
> Ltd. (associated enterprise). In the light of this structure of transaction,
> it ceases to be uncontrolled transaction and, hence, Wipro Technology
> Services Ltd., disqualifies to become a comparable uncontrolled transaction
> for the purposes of inclusion in the final list of comparables under Rule
> 10B(1)(e)(ii). We, therefore, direct removal of this company from the list
> of comparables."
The view taken by the coordinate bench in Saxo India (supra) was subsequently
approved by the Hon'ble High Court and followed in numerous other cases
(listed above). In light of the peculiar facts which permeate during the year
under consideration and respectfully following these precedents we hold that
Wipro Technology Services Ltd. cannot be taken as a comparable as it is not an
uncontrolled entity and accordingly fails the essential requirement of
transfer pricing analysis.
236\. Caliber Point Business Solutions Limited ("Caliber") and R System
International Ltd. (R System): The Ld. TPO excluded Caliber and R System as
comparables for the reason that these two companies adopt financial year
ending in December and not in March. The Ld. DRP upheld order of the Ld. TPO.
192
237\. The Ld. Counsel submits that different financial year ending is not a
criterion to reject a comparable company. He pointed out that no adverse
inference was made by the TPO in AY 2012-13 wherein Caliber was accepted as a
comparable by the Appellant in its TP Study even though in that year too, the
financial year of the company was December as in this year. The Ld. Counsel
argued that a functionally comparable company cannot be rejected merely on the
grounds of having different financial year if the data can be reasonably
extrapolated. Reliance was placed by him on:
> • DCIT vs. McKinsey knowledge Centre India private limited (ITA No.
> 195/DEL/2011), affirmed by the Hon'ble High Court of Delhi
> [TS-672-HC-2015(DEL)-TP] • Mercer Consulting (India) Pvt Ltd
> [TS-664-HC-2016(P & H) • Exevo India Pvt. Ltd. vs. ITO (I.T.A.
> No.907/Del/2016) • SSL TTK (TS-887-ITAT-2016) • Aegis Limited (ITA No.
> 7694/Mum/2014)
238\. The Ld. Counsel submitted that extrapolated annual profitability of the
comparable segment depicting March ending results for AY 2011-12 have been
computed at 4.25% from annual reports for period December 2010 and December
2011. He placed reliance on the judgment delivered in the case of Maersk
Global Services Centre (I) Pvt Ltd (I.T.A. No.944/Mum/2016) pertaining to
inclusion of Caliber Point Solutions Ltd. as a comparable for AY 2011-12. As
regards R Systems, the Ld. Counsel submitted that the extrapolated annual
profit margin for the period ending March 2011 has been computed at 6.55% for
the software development and customization service segment from  193 the
quarterly statements filed by this company with the stock exchanges.
239\. The Ld. CIT (DR) vehemently defended the order of Ld. TPO and contended
that Caliber and R System were rightly rejected for the reasons mentioned in
his order. He further submitted that the extrapolated annual figures are not
reliable because these have been computed based on weighted average basis and
not on actual quarterly results which are not available in the public domain.
240\. The issue of different financial year ending in the context of rejection
of comparables has been examined by us in ITA no. 5315/Del/2011 (appeal for
A.Yr 2007-08) while determining the suitability of PCS Technology Ltd. as a
comparable under Ground no.4. We have already held that it is mandatory under
Rule 10B (4) to use current year data for purpose of comparison under TNMM.
Use of data from different financial years would result in an inaccurate
comparison and may erode the credibility of the benchmarking exercise. We had
also taken note of the Tribunal decision in the case of McKinsey Knowledge
Centre (supra) which was affirmed by the High Court wherein extrapolation of
figures from quarterly statements was permitted. In the present situation, it
has been submitted that the quarterly results of R System is available in
public domain as it is a listed company and is required to file quarterly
statements with the stock exchanges and regulators. However, the same has not
been verified by the TPO. As regards Caliber it is not clear whether the
quarterly statement of this company is available in the public domain. The
extrapolated figures given by the appellant appear to be a weighted average
mean. In our view this is not permissible. We accordingly  194 remand the
determination of these facts to the file of the TPO who is directed to examine
whether quarterly results of R System and Caliber is available in public
domain so that their annual profit margin can be determined in an accurate
way. If such information is available, the comparable can be included. If such
information is not available, the comparable cannot be included merely on the
basis of extrapolated figures derived from weighted average basis. This ground
is disposed off in terms of our above directions.
GROUND NO. 23: The Ld. AO/DRP has erred in law and in fact, in holding that
loss on exchange fluctuation amounting to Rs. 143,127,352 debited to P&L
account is a notional loss and is not allowable as a deduction under the
provisions of the Act GROUND NO. 24: Without prejudice to the above ground,
the Ld. AO/DRP erred in not excluding Rs. 48,659,085 from the taxable income
on the current year being marked to market losses incurred in respect of
foreign exchange contracts which were outstanding as on 31st March 2010 and
written back during the year as same was also not allowed as deduction in the
assessment proceedings for AY 2010-11
241\. This ground pertains to allowability of loss recognized under accounting
standards under marked to market (MTM) guidelines in respect of forward forex
contract which are open and unexpired on the last date of the balance sheet on
account of restatement of amounts payable and receivable in foreign exchange.
This issue has already been decided by us in ITA No. 5315/Del/2011 for A.Y.
2007-08 under Ground no. 10, ITA No. 52/Del/2013 for A. Yr. 2008-09 under
Ground no. 11 and 11.1, ITA No. 1567/DEL/14 for  195 A.Y. 2009-10 under Ground
no. 29-31 and ITA No. 6741/DEL/2014 for A.Y. 2010-11 under Ground no. 27 & 28
wherein we have allowed the ground in view of the law being settled by the
Hon'ble Supreme Court in CIT v. Woodward Governor India Pvt. Ltd. 312 ITR 254
(SC) in this regard. Following the same, this Ground is allowed.
GROUND NO. 25: In the facts and circumstances of the case and in law, the Ld.
AO/DRP has erred in making a disallowance/addition of Rs. 88,99,84,961 in
terms of section 40(a)(i)/(ia) of the Act GROUND NO. 26: The Ld. AO/DRP erred
in disallowing Rs. 88,99,84,961 being the reversal of excess provision which
was already disallowed in AY 2010-11 GROUND NO. 27: The Ld. DRP failed to
acknowledge the facts that appellant had clearly submitted that reversal was
of excess provision and accordingly, it erred in observing that the provisions
have been reversed without clarifying whether payments were made or not and if
made, the status of TDS on such payments GROUND NO. 28: The Ld. AO/DRP has
factually erred in stating that the appellant has not credited the profit and
loss account in the current year with the amount of expenses of the previous
years which have been so reversed, without appreciating that the reversal of
provisions was made in the profit and loss account, by crediting the amount in
respective heads of expenses and thereby increasing the income GROUND NO. 29:
The Ld. AO/DRP has erred in not appreciating that the said amount of Rs.
889,984,961 has already been disallowed in the preceding year, i.e., AY
2010-11 when it was  196 debited to the P&L account, accordingly, the same has
to be reduced in computing the total income when it is credited to the P&L
account at the time of reversal in the current year, otherwise it would lead
to double disallowance/taxation of the same amount GROUND NO. 30: The Ld. AO
has erred on facts in observing that the reversal of expenses of Rs.
889,984,961 establishes the said expenses as prior period expenses which
cannot be claimed in the current year, as he failed to understand that during
the year under consideration the appellant had only reversed the said amount
of Rs. 80,99,04,961 by crediting the P&L account
242\. Ground nos. 25 to 30 pertain to the issue of disallowance made by the AO
u/s 40(a)(i)/(ia). The relevant facts in this respect are that, the assessee
had created a year end provision of INR 3,396,650,580 for the year ending 31
March 2010. Out of this provision, INR 889,984,971 was in respect of vendors
who could not be identified, and no TDS could be made. Accordingly, the
assessee in its computation of income and in income tax return for A.Y.
2010-11 disallowed this amount of INR 889,984,971. During this year i.e. FY
2010-11 (AY 2011-12), the assessee reversed such provision in the books of
accounts and credited the same in respect heads of expenses thereby reducing
the expenses. This led to an increase of the total income to the extent of INR
889,984,971.The Ld. AO held that the assessee company has not deducted and
deposited the tax deduction at source (TDS) and on a failure to deposit
withholding taxes on this amount disallowed the same under section
40(a)(i)/(ia) of the Act. He further held that creation of provision is
nothing but a strategy / tool for decreasing the income and taxes. The AO was
of the view that the submission of the assessee that the expense was reversed
in the  197 current year establishes that the prior period expense cannot be
claimed in the current year especially when the assessee is following
mercantile system of accounting. The AO observed that the legal fiction of
section 40(a)(i)/(ia) is not available as the assessee has merely reversed the
entries of expenses and has not actually deducted the tax and deposited the
same. The Ld. DRP upheld the reasoning and action of the Ld. AO.
243\. The Ld. Counsel for the appellant submitted that the reversal of the
provision in the books of accounts of Rs. 889,984,971 was claimed as a
deduction in computing the total income of AY 2011-12 because the same had
already been taxed in the prior AY 2010-11. He further submitted that the
action of the AO amounts of double taxation of the same amount. The Ld.
Counsel pointed out that the deduction on account of reversal of the provision
was mistakenly described as a deduction under section 40(a)(i) of the Act in
the computation of income. This deduction was merely on the account of a
reversal of a provision which had already been subject to tax in the prior
year. The relevant details of reversal had been placed before the Ld. AO and
have also been placed before us. The Ld. Counsel placed reliance on Johnson
Matthey India Pvt. Ltd. [I.T.A. No. 4397/Del/2011] where in similar
circumstances the Tribunal had deleted the disallowance made by the AO. It has
been submitted by the Ld. Counsel of the appellant that as the said amount has
already been disallowed in the preceding year i.e. AY 2010-11 when it was
debited in the P&L account, the same is to be reduced in the computing the
total income when it is credited to the P&L account at the time reversal in
the current year i.e. AY 2011-12.
198
244\. Ld. CIT(DR) relied on the orders of the AO and the DRP and contended
that since no TDS had been deducted and deposited in this year, the
disallowance made by the AO was justified because the same is mandated by
Section 40(a)(i)/(ia).It has also been submitted that the reversal of
provision made by the assessee in its books is in conformity with the
generally accepted accounting principles consistently followed by the assessee
to represent a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the financial
statements and the same has been certified by the statutory auditors of the
company as well.
245\. We have heard both sides and examined the material on record. The
computation of income for the prior year shows that the appellant on its own
volition had added back an amount of Rs. 889,984,971to its income on account
of a provision being created without any TDS being made. We find that during
the relevant financial year, this provision was reversed and the corresponding
heads of expenses to which the provision pertained were reduced
correspondingly. This led to increase of income in the books of account. Since
this amount had already been voluntarily disallowed in A.Y. 2010-11 and
offered to tax, the impact of write- back in the books for the current year
had to be reversed. The assessee claimed this as a deduction in its
computation of income. We are in agreement with the submission of the assessee
that this approach is consistent with the generally acceptable accounting
practices.
246\. In our view, Section 40(a)(i)(ia) of the Act comes into play only when
an assessee claims any expense as a deduction without  199 deducting TDS on
the same. However, in the present case, as the assessee has reversed the
provision created in the previous year, the same has accordingly be reduced
from the total income as it was already added back while computing the income
of previous year. In this situation Section 40(a)(i) or (ia) has no
application as there is no expense which has been incurred. The allowability
of the reversal of the provision is a deduction that is claimed on the basis
of alignment of the books of accounts with the taxable income. Therefore, the
reasoning of the Ld. AO that as no tax has been deducted and deposited the
said reversal of provision should not be allowed to be reduced from taxable
income is on completely wrong footing because claim of the assessee pertains
to reversal of excess provision created in preceding year for which vendors
were not identifiable, and thus the question of deducting tax on the same does
not arise.
247\. Accordingly, we hold that the Ld. AO and the DRP have erred in not
appreciating that in the preceding year at the time of creation of the said
provision, the same was already suo-moto added back to the income under the
head "Profits and Gains of business or Profession," for the reason that it is
not allowable under the Act. Therefore, in the current year, on the reversal
of the said amount, the same should be allowed to be reduced in computing the
total income else it would lead to double taxation of the same. The decision
of the coordinate Bench in the case of Johnson Matthey India Pvt. Ltd. [I.T.A.
No. 4397/Del/2011] cited by the appellant is applicable to the present facts.
In this case, the issue before the Tribunal was whether the reversal of
provision (created in preceding years), which was disallowed in  200 those
years, should be taxed in the year of reversal. The Tribunal while holding in
favour of the assessee held as below: "14. Each year the assessee has been
making a provision for inventory in the books of account maintained by the
company. While filing its return of income, this provision for inventory made
in the books of account, is added back to the income under the head "Profits
and Gains of business or Profession," for the reason that it is not allowable
under the IT Act. In other words the provision for slow moving/obsolete
inventory, which is created each year in the profits & loss account and
balance sheet prepared in accordance with the Companies Act, 1956, has been
specifically added back while computing taxable income under the IT Act, while
filing the return of income of the respective year i.e. the assessee has not
claimed deduction on the 'Provision' created in its accounts, in its income
tax computation in the earlier years.
15\. During the year under consideration the provision in question, in respect
of slow moving/obsolete inventory was written back in the accounts of the
company, on the ground that the said provision to the extent written back is
no longer required. The assessee had sold the slow moving stock and disclosed
the sale proceeds, in its sales account. The provision was written back as no
longer required in the accounts and as the provision was not claimed as an
expense in its income tax computation in the year in which it was created, the
same need not be added back once again. The action of the AO is a double
addition. A figure which was never claimed or allowed as a deduction in the
earlier year was added back."
248\. In another case involving a similar situation, this Tribunal has held
that such reversal has to be allowed as a deduction. In  201 SPX India (P)
Ltd. Vs. CIT (A) [(2014) 147 ITD 120 (Delhi)] wherein it was held that:
"...As far as quantification of the amount is concern, we find that assessee
has made the provision for a sum of Rs. 2,61,540/-. The excess provision has
been written back and a sum of rs. 1,05,989/- was offered for tax in the next
year. Thus the exact amount paid without deducting the TDS is Rs. 1,55,551/-.
The assessee has raised the plea before the AO but ld. AO has not assign any
reason for not accepting this plea. If we confirmed the disallowance of the
total amount then amount of Rs.1,05,989/- would suffer tax twice i.e. by way
of disallowance in this year and in the next year when assessee has written
back the provision. Therefore, we direct the AO to exclude this amount from
the disallowance after verification that it was offered for tax in the next
year."
In view of the foregoing discussion and the authorities cited above, we allow
this ground and direct the AO to allow this deduction.
249\. In view of our discussion and our finding given above qua each year, all
the appeals are treated as partly allowed.
Order pronounced in the open Court on 4th October, 2019.
                  Sd/-                                        Sd/-
       [PRASHANT MAHARISHI]                              [AMIT SHUKLA]
       [ACCOUNTANT MEMBER]                             JUDICIAL MEMBER
    DATED: 4th October, 2019
    PKK:
has made the provision for a sum of Rs. 2,61,540/-. The excess provision has
been written back and a sum of rs. 1,05,989/- was offered for tax in the next
year. Thus the exact amount paid without deducting the TDS is Rs. 1,55,551/-.
The assessee has raised the plea before the AO but ld. AO has not assign any
reason for not accepting this plea. If we confirmed the disallowance of the
total amount then amount of Rs.1,05,989/- would suffer tax twice i.e. by way
of disallowance in this year and in the next year when assessee has written
back the provision. Therefore, we direct the AO to exclude this amount from
the disallowance after verification that it was offered for tax in the next
year."
In view of the foregoing discussion and the authorities cited above, we allow
this ground and direct the AO to allow this deduction.
249\. In view of our discussion and our finding given above qua each year, all
the appeals are treated as partly allowed.
Order pronounced in the open Court on 4th October, 2019.
                  Sd/-                                        Sd/-
    (Appellant)                         (Respondent)
    Appellant by:                  S/Shri Himanshu Sinha, Shri
                                   Bhuwan Dhooper, Adv. & Ms. Vrinda
                                   Tulsan, Adv.
    Respondent by:                 Shri H.K. Choudhary, CIT-D.R.
    Date of hearing:               27 09 2019
    Date of pronouncement:         04 10 2019
                                   ORDER
PER BENCH:
The appeals in ITA Nos. 3248/Del/2012, 5856/Del/10, 5315/Del/11, 52/Del/13,
1567/Del/2014, 6741/Del/2014, 868/Del/2016 & 2511/Del/2018 have been filed by
the assessee in respect of the assessment years 2005-06 to 2011-12
respectively. Whereas, the appeal in ITA No. 3410/Del/2012 is a cross appeal
filed by the Revenue for the AY 2005-06. Since the issues involved in all
these appeals are common therefore, we  2 deem it fit and convenient to
dispose-off these appeals by way of this consolidated order. We will take
first the appeals for the A.Y. 2005-06.
2\. The appellant assessee, Samsung India Electronics Pvt. Ltd. (SIEL), is a
company incorporated in India under the Companies Act, 1956 and is primarily
engaged in the business of manufacture and sale of consumer electronics and
has made the provision for a sum of Rs. 2,61,540/-. The excess provision has
been written back and a sum of rs. 1,05,989/- was offered for tax in the next
year. Thus the exact amount paid without deducting the TDS is Rs. 1,55,551/-.
The assessee has raised the plea before the AO but ld. AO has not assign any
reason for not accepting this plea. If we confirmed the disallowance of the
total amount then amount of Rs.1,05,989/- would suffer tax twice i.e. by way
of disallowance in this year and in the next year when assessee has written
back the provision. Therefore, we direct the AO to exclude this amount from
the disallowance after verification that it was offered for tax in the next
year."
In view of the foregoing discussion and the authorities cited above, we allow
this ground and direct the AO to allow this deduction.
249\. In view of our discussion and our finding given above qua each year, all
the appeals are treated as partly allowed.
Order pronounced in the open Court on 4th October, 2019.
                  Sd/-                                        Sd/-
    (Appellant)                         (Respondent)
    Appellant by:                  S/Shri Himanshu Sinha, Shri
                                   Bhuwan Dhooper, Adv. & Ms. Vrinda
                                   Tulsan, Adv.
    Respondent by:                 Shri H.K. Choudhary, CIT-D.R.
    Date of hearing:               27 09 2019
    Date of pronouncement:         04 10 2019
                                   ORDER
PER BENCH:
The appeals in ITA Nos. 3248/Del/2012, 5856/Del/10, 5315/Del/11, 52/Del/13,
1567/Del/2014, 6741/Del/2014, 868/Del/2016 & 2511/Del/2018 have been filed by
the assessee in respect of the assessment years 2005-06 to 2011-12
respectively. Whereas, the appeal in ITA No. 3410/Del/2012 is a cross appeal
filed by the Revenue for the AY 2005-06. Since the issues involved in all
these appeals are common therefore, we  2 deem it fit and convenient to
dispose-off these appeals by way of this consolidated order. We will take
first the appeals for the A.Y. 2005-06.
2\. The appellant assessee, Samsung India Electronics Pvt. Ltd. (SIEL), is a
company incorporated in India under the Companies Act, 1956 and is primarily
engaged in the business of manufacture and sale of consumer electronics and
has made the provision for a sum of Rs. 2,61,540/-. The excess provision has
been written back and a sum of rs. 1,05,989/- was offered for tax in the next
year. Thus the exact amount paid without deducting the TDS is Rs. 1,55,551/-.
The assessee has raised the plea before the AO but ld. AO has not assign any
reason for not accepting this plea. If we confirmed the disallowance of the
total amount then amount of Rs.1,05,989/- would suffer tax twice i.e. by way
of disallowance in this year and in the next year when assessee has written
back the provision. Therefore, we direct the AO to exclude this amount from
the disallowance after verification that it was offered for tax in the next
year."
In view of the foregoing discussion and the authorities cited above, we allow
this ground and direct the AO to allow this deduction.
249\. In view of our discussion and our finding given above qua each year, all
the appeals are treated as partly allowed.
Order pronounced in the open Court on 4th October, 2019.
                  Sd/-                                        Sd/-
    (Appellant)                         (Respondent)
    Appellant by:                  S/Shri Himanshu Sinha, Shri
                                   Bhuwan Dhooper, Adv. & Ms. Vrinda
                                   Tulsan, Adv.
    Respondent by:                 Shri H.K. Choudhary, CIT-D.R.
    Date of hearing:               27 09 2019
    Date of pronouncement:         04 10 2019
                                   ORDER
PER BENCH:
The appeals in ITA Nos. 3248/Del/2012, 5856/Del/10, 5315/Del/11, 52/Del/13,
1567/Del/2014, 6741/Del/2014, 868/Del/2016 & 2511/Del/2018 have been filed by
the assessee in respect of the assessment years 2005-06 to 2011-12
respectively. Whereas, the appeal in ITA No. 3410/Del/2012 is a cross appeal
filed by the Revenue for the AY 2005-06. Since the issues involved in all
these appeals are common therefore, we  2 deem it fit and convenient to
dispose-off these appeals by way of this consolidated order. We will take
first the appeals for the A.Y. 2005-06.
2\. The appellant assessee, Samsung India Electronics Pvt. Ltd. (SIEL), is a
company incorporated in India under the Companies Act, 1956 and is primarily
engaged in the business of manufacture and sale of consumer electronics and
home appliances goods such as colour televisions, refrigerators, air
conditioners, washing machines, microwave ovens, computer peripherals etc. The
appellant company is a part of the Samsung group of companies. It is 100%
subsidiary of Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd. Korea ('SEC'). One common ground
permeating in all the years except for the appeal for AY 2006-07 is the ground
pertaining to transfer pricing adjustment made on account of advertising and
marketing promotion (AMP) expenditure incurred by the appellant, which shall
be dealt firstly and subsequently, all other grounds shall be taken up.
AY 2005-06
3\. Facts in brief for the AY 2005-06 are that, the appellant had filed its
return of income on 31 October 2005, declaring a loss of Rs. 6,35,44,316. The
has made the provision for a sum of Rs. 2,61,540/-. The excess provision has
been written back and a sum of rs. 1,05,989/- was offered for tax in the next
year. Thus the exact amount paid without deducting the TDS is Rs. 1,55,551/-.
The assessee has raised the plea before the AO but ld. AO has not assign any
reason for not accepting this plea. If we confirmed the disallowance of the
total amount then amount of Rs.1,05,989/- would suffer tax twice i.e. by way
of disallowance in this year and in the next year when assessee has written
back the provision. Therefore, we direct the AO to exclude this amount from
the disallowance after verification that it was offered for tax in the next
year."
In view of the foregoing discussion and the authorities cited above, we allow
this ground and direct the AO to allow this deduction.
249\. In view of our discussion and our finding given above qua each year, all
the appeals are treated as partly allowed.
Order pronounced in the open Court on 4th October, 2019.
                  Sd/-                                        Sd/-
    (Appellant)                         (Respondent)
    Appellant by:                  S/Shri Himanshu Sinha, Shri
                                   Bhuwan Dhooper, Adv. & Ms. Vrinda
                                   Tulsan, Adv.
    Respondent by:                 Shri H.K. Choudhary, CIT-D.R.
    Date of hearing:               27 09 2019
    Date of pronouncement:         04 10 2019
                                   ORDER
PER BENCH:
The appeals in ITA Nos. 3248/Del/2012, 5856/Del/10, 5315/Del/11, 52/Del/13,
1567/Del/2014, 6741/Del/2014, 868/Del/2016 & 2511/Del/2018 have been filed by
the assessee in respect of the assessment years 2005-06 to 2011-12
respectively. Whereas, the appeal in ITA No. 3410/Del/2012 is a cross appeal
filed by the Revenue for the AY 2005-06. Since the issues involved in all
these appeals are common therefore, we  2 deem it fit and convenient to
dispose-off these appeals by way of this consolidated order. We will take
first the appeals for the A.Y. 2005-06.
2\. The appellant assessee, Samsung India Electronics Pvt. Ltd. (SIEL), is a
company incorporated in India under the Companies Act, 1956 and is primarily
engaged in the business of manufacture and sale of consumer electronics and
home appliances goods such as colour televisions, refrigerators, air
conditioners, washing machines, microwave ovens, computer peripherals etc. The
appellant company is a part of the Samsung group of companies. It is 100%
subsidiary of Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd. Korea ('SEC'). One common ground
permeating in all the years except for the appeal for AY 2006-07 is the ground
pertaining to transfer pricing adjustment made on account of advertising and
marketing promotion (AMP) expenditure incurred by the appellant, which shall
be dealt firstly and subsequently, all other grounds shall be taken up.
AY 2005-06
3\. Facts in brief for the AY 2005-06 are that, the appellant had filed its
return of income on 31 October 2005, declaring a loss of Rs. 6,35,44,316. The
has made the provision for a sum of Rs. 2,61,540/-. The excess provision has
been written back and a sum of rs. 1,05,989/- was offered for tax in the next
year. Thus the exact amount paid without deducting the TDS is Rs. 1,55,551/-.
The assessee has raised the plea before the AO but ld. AO has not assign any
reason for not accepting this plea. If we confirmed the disallowance of the
total amount then amount of Rs.1,05,989/- would suffer tax twice i.e. by way
of disallowance in this year and in the next year when assessee has written
back the provision. Therefore, we direct the AO to exclude this amount from
the disallowance after verification that it was offered for tax in the next
year."
In view of the foregoing discussion and the authorities cited above, we allow
this ground and direct the AO to allow this deduction.
249\. In view of our discussion and our finding given above qua each year, all
the appeals are treated as partly allowed.
Order pronounced in the open Court on 4th October, 2019.
                  Sd/-                                        Sd/-
