Delhi High Court
Modi Rubber Ltd. vs Guardian International Corp. on 28 March, 2007
Equivalent citations: 2007 (2) ARBLR 133 Delhi, 141 (2007) DLT 822
Author: G Mittal
Bench: G Mittal
JUDGMENT Gita Mittal, J.
Page 1176
1\. This petition raises two very interesting questions which are required to
be answered. The first question raised is whether a party can seek interim
relief on the ground that the other side has raised a dispute before the
Arbitral Tribunal. The second question which has been raised by the respondent
is to the effect that on account of sickness of its partner in a joint venture
under the Sick Industrial Companies (Special Provisions) Act, the underlying
shareholders agreement between the parties is rendered frustrated and
incapable of implementation. Consequently, the petitioner cannot base a
petition for prohibitory relief based on a clause in this agreement which
prohibited the parties thereto from undertaking any business similar to that
of the joint venture during its currency.
Page 1177
2\. So far as the basic facts are concerned, there is no material dispute and
similar to that of the joint venture.
The submissions made by the respondent in IA No. 13512/2006 have been taken on
record and considered. The prayer made therein, therefore, stands satisfied.
I, accordingly, allow OMP No. 477/2006 to the extent of prayers (a) and (b)
and restrain the respondents, its affiliates or associates from participating,
negotiating, engaging in or being financially interested, directly or
indirectly in any other project for the manufacturing of Float Glass, or for
the fabrication of products made from Float Glass, or for the sale,
import/export of Float Glass or related products made from Float Glass in
India. The respondent shall also stand restrained from taking any steps in
setting up a wholly owned subsidiary in India for manufacturing in the same
field as GGL.
So far as prayer (c) and (d) are concerned, the same shall abide adjudication
in the writ proceedings which are stated to have been initiated by the
petitioner.
This order shall operate till making of the Award by the Arbitral Tribunal.
2\. So far as the basic facts are concerned, there is no material dispute and
to the extent necessary, they are noticed hereinafter. The petitioner M/s Modi
Rubber Ltd., (hereinafter referred to as 'MRL' for brevity) entered into a
Memorandum of Understanding ('MOU') dated 1st July, 1988 with M/s Guardian
International Corporation arrayed as respondent before this Court,
(hereinafter referred to as 'Guardian').
3\. Guardian is stated to be a leader in manufacturing float glass and the
agreement between the parties states that it has acquired unique and valuable
engineering skills and expertise for designing, constructing and operating
plants for the manufacture of float glass by the float process. The agreement
between the parties also notices that the MRL is a renowned industrial
establishment of India with extensive expertise in the manufacturing and
marketing of high quality industrial products in India and other countries.
4\. Besides the parties to the present petition, the agreement between the
parties also involved M/s Gujarat Alkalies Chemicals Ltd., a Gujarat
Government Corporation which had obtained a letter of intent No. LI: 779
(1989) Regn. No. 79 (89)-comp./SCS dated 13th October, 1989 issued by the
Government of India for establishing and operating a float glass plant in the
State of Gujarat.
5\. There is therefore no dispute that MRL and Guardian were both financially
strong and stable and had entered into a relationship of trust and faith.
These parties entered into a Memorandum of Understanding dated 1st July, 1988
whereby they agreed in principle to collaborate and promote a joint venture
company in India in the assisted sector with the State of Gujarat through one
of its nominee companies, subject to grant of requisite Indian Government
approvals and obtaining all requisite finances to undertake, amongst others,
the production and marketing of flat glass using the most advanced and up to
date float process based on the expertise acquired by Guardian or any of its
subsidiaries. As per this MOU, the initial issued equity share capital of the
company was agreed to be subscribed in the following percentages:
(i) Guardian or one of its subsidiaries 40.00%
(ii) The MRL and its associates including Gujarat State Government 40.00%
(iii) Public issue 20.00%
6\. The parties had agreed to restrict their commercial activities under this
MOU in clause 7 in the following manner:
7\. This MOU assures both parties that they will not engage in other
collaborations for the purpose of making float, tepered coated or laminated
automotive and architectural glass products in India or any other industry
which uses float glass as a raw material.
7\. The parties had also agreed that the management of the joint venture
company shall be in such manner as is 'mutually agreed between the parties
from time to time'.
8\. Pursuant to this Memorandum of Understanding, the parties entered into a
Share Holders Agreement dated 23rd January, 1990 (referred to as 'SHA' Page
1178 hereinafter for brevity). By this agreement, the parties agreed to
collaborate and promote a joint venture company called the Gujarat Guardian
Ltd., (hereinafter referred to as 'GGL') for the production and marketing of
float glass. For the purposes of facilitating its development and operation
and for ensuring a satisfactory relationship between the principal share
holders of this company, the parties agreed that the equity subscription in
GGL would be held between the parties to this SHA as follows:
      (i)   By Guardian International Corporation        40.00%
    (ii)  By MRL                                       20.00%
    (iii) By Gujarat Alkalies and Chemicals Ltd.
          and its nominees                             11.00%
    (iv)  By the public                                20.00%
The amount of issued and the subscribed capital was agreed to be valued by
mutual agreement between Guardian and MRL and it was agreed that if any
additional shares were issued, GGL was first to offer such shares at the price
at which the shares are to be offered to new share holders, to Guardian, MRL
or the other share holders in proportion to the equity shares owned by each of
them on the date of such offer.
9\. So far as the agreement of the parties which was set out as Clause 7 in
the MOU is concerned, the parties reiterated the prohibition therein contained
and co opted the same as Clause 14 of the SHA whereby the parties covenanted
as follows:
Clause 14 - Additional Projects/Exclusivity During the term of this
Shareholders Agreement, neither MRL nor Guardian International, nor any
Affiliates or Associates of either one of them shall, without the consent of
MRL and Guardian International, participate, negotiate or engage, or be
financially interested, directly or indirectly, in any other project for the
manufacture of float glass, or for the fabrication of products made from float
glass, or for the sale of float glass or products made from float glass, in
India.
10\. The present petition has raised a contentious issue with regard to the
rights of one the parties to the SHA to set up an additional project without
association or participation of the other.
11\. There is no dispute that this agreement between the parties was given
full effect to. After all requisite government approvals were obtained, the
parties formed a joint venture company known as the Gujarat Guardian Ltd.
(hereafter referred to as 'GGL') incorporated on 21st February, 1990 under the
provisions of the Companies Act, 1956. This company set up a manufacturing
facility for production of float glass at Ankleshwar in the State of Gujarat.
12\. So far as the present shareholding of the parties in GGL is concerned,
the admitted position is that M/s Guardian is holding 50% shareholding while
MRL along with other Indian promoters is holding 50% shareholding therein.
MRL's individual shareholding is 21.24% in this joint venture.
13\. So far as the representation on the Board of Directors is concerned, the
same was stipulated in clause 2.1 of the SHA. It was agreed that both parties
Page 1179 would be entitled to equal representation on the Board. As a nominee
of MRL, Mr. Vinay Kumar Modi is stated to be a Director on the Board of the
joint venture while Mr. Alok Modi is a nominee of the petitioner-company. My
attention has been drawn to the annual report of the joint venture for the
year 2004-2005 which provides that the Finance Director as well as the
Purchase Manager of GGL were also nominees of MRL. In terms of clause 2.7 of
the SHA, Mr. V.K. Modi was nominated as the Director cum Chairman who
continues to so function.
14\. Dispute resolution is provided in clause 26 of the SHA which reads thus:
26\. Arbitration Any dispute or difference arising under or in connection with
this Shareholders Agreement, or any breach thereof, which cannot be settled by
friendly negotiation and agreement between the parties shall be finally
settled by arbitration conducted in accordance with the rules of the London
Court of International Arbitration by three (3) arbitrators designated in
conformity with those Rules. MRL and GACL shall select one (1) arbitrator,
Guardian International shall select one (1) arbitrator, and the two
arbitrators so selected shall select the third arbitrator. Judgment upon the
award rendered may be entered in any court of competent jurisdiction.
15\. It now becomes necessary to examine certain other aspects of the
functioning of the joint venture placed before this Court by both sides. The
admitted position is that no dividend was distributed to the share holders of
shares in the joint venture GGL for 16 years since its incorporation. MRL has
complained that dividend was declared for the first time in the last financial
year which was also only to the extent of Rs. 2 per share. As a result of this
policy, the position of the reserves and surplus considerably enhanced. The
petitioner has placed reliance on a letter dated 19th November, 2003 written
by Guardian to Mr. Vinay Kumar Modi as Chairman of the joint venture GGL
adverting to restructuring alternatives. This communication refers to several
alternatives and proposals which were discussed between the parties and refers
to growth of the company in India to be financed by internal accruals and
leveraging.
16\. It has been contended on behalf of the petitioner that, thus, as back as
in the year 2003, both the parties could foresee the growing demand of float
glass and the requirement of expansion of facilities at the joint venture.
17\. It is pointed out that in terms of the agreement between the parties,
Guardian has received amounts from the joint venture on account of license
fee, royalty etc. for the technology transfers while this technical expertise
has enabled the GGL to establish itself as a highly profitable enterprise.
18\. Mr. Arun Jaitley, learned senior counsel for the petitioner has asserted
that MRL had been promoting distribution or declaration of dividend to the
share holders which was being unreasonably obstructed by Guardian for one
reason or another.
19\. Before this Court, the reason which has been put forth by Guardian has
been that an amount of US $ 45 million was required towards the essential
repairs which were to be effected on the cold tank for the manufacturing Page
1180 unit. In this behalf, Guardian had addressed a fax dated 5th August, 2005
to MRL wherein it had written thus-
This is to request some detailed information on dividend capacity for Gujarat
Guardian Limited.
If GGL were to pay dividends as of 31 December, 2005, what would be the
maximum dividend that could be paid and what would be the basis for the
calculation' For purposes of answering this question, you would assume that
the cold tank repair reserve has been reversed in the local books.
For purposes of this question you should also assume that the AGM has been
held and approved the financial statements for the year ended 31st March,
2005.
Don't worry about financing. Whatever the amount is above the cash on hand
assuming GGL can finalise it.
More specifically:
1) Are we limited to some percentage of retained earnings as of 31 March,
2005'
2) If there is a legal reserve requirement, what is it'
3) Can we pay additional dividends as part of a 31 December, 2005 dividend
payout by looking based on interim earnings for months after 31 March 2005' If
so, what is required if anything by way of auditor review or certification'
How long would this take' Realistically, how many months could we consider
after 31 March 2005'
4) If we wanted to pay dividends beyond the maximum distributable earnings,
(taking into account the questions and assumptions above), can we do a return
on capital' If so, what percentage or amount of the paid in capital would be
returned' Would there be a withholding tax on this.
This fax is evidence of the fact that so far as the reservation of amounts in
the books of accounts of the joint venture GGL was concerned, the entries to
this effect in the accounts had been reversed. Undoubtedly this communication
also confirms availability of substantial reserves.
20\. A further communication dated 12th August, 2005 was addressed by Guardian
to Mr. V.K. Modi as Chairman of GGL pointing out that so far as its
considerations with regard to the distribution of the dividends was concerned,
they were based on the tax impact on its earnings of the dividends. In this
communication, Guardian wrote thus:
As you requested, I also wanted to let you know that due to the mechanics of
U.S. Tax Law, Guardian has the ability until December of this year to receive
its share of a GGL dividend in the range of $17 - $45 million and only be
taxed $5 million on the first $17 millioin. Therefore, anything above $17
million is tax free. We understand from Mr. Surana that the legal limit for a
total GGL dividend would be $45 million and Guardian's 50% share, on $22.5
million would allow us to bring $5.5 million out tax-free for a net tax on the
total of 22%. For this reason, we are very interested in exploring this
possibility especially since it does Page 1181 not look as if GGL will be
investing in any additional manufacturing in the near future. Because of the
need for a special General Assembly meeting, it seems likely to me that we
should be deciding how to proceed by early to mid October.
xxxx
21\. Even these discussions did not culminate in any fruitful outcome. In a
communication dated 2nd February, 2006 so far as the release of dividends was
concerned, Guardian put forth yet another alternative for utilization of the
reserves and surplus. It now advocated utilization of the available amounts
for re-purchase of shares from the Government companies which were holding
equity in the joint venture. It also imposed a condition for dividend payment
upon Guardian being satisfied that there was no dispute between Mr. V.K. Modi
and his brother. In this behalf, Guardian made the following stipulations in
its letter dated 2nd February, 2006:
...With respect to your description of the dividend discussion, I did state
that Guardian could support a dividend payout of up to 40% later this year.
However, as we discussed, our strong preference remains to first use available
cash to repurchase shares from the Gujarat Government. We can think of no
better use for GGL assets than obtaining those shares from the public domain,
which would resolve your legal disputes as well as eliminate acrimony at GGL
Board meetings. We also made a dividend payment contingent upon a
demonstration to our Board meetings. We also made a dividend payment
contingent upon a demonstration to our satisfaction that you and your brother
are no longer at odds over the ultimate disposition of the GGL shares.
Additionally, you would have undisputed sole control of the voting of these
shares, and we would have a clear understanding, also to our satisfaction, as
to how Modi Rubber will take the final steps in its complete restructuring.
However, our discussion was of a one-time dividend to be declared and paid
during 2006. Any future payouts are subject to mutual agreement. Hopefully, we
would ensure that GGL is not subjected to any degradation of its financial
position and that it makes sense including from a tax perspective, for both of
us to receive dividends.
22\. In this communication of 2nd February, 2006, a suggestion was made on
behalf of the Guardian with regard to purchase of shares held by MRL in the
joint venture as well. In this behalf, Guardian had written thus:
...Summarizing Guardian's perspective on various GGL restructuring issues, it
has become increasingly clear that if and when shares change hands, they will
do so at a premium price. As you know, during your visit, we were discussing
the possibility of a GGL share price in the range of Rs. 60 to Rs. 65 per
share. Our view is that this price is at, or even beyond the upper end of any
reasonable discounted cash flow analysis, EBITDA multiple, or similar
'investment banker' formula beyond taking a multiple from the current
overheated Mumbai stock exchange.
If our restructuring conversation had continued into Tuesday, I would have
proposed a Guardian/Modi relationship with some modifications to the Page 1182
elements that have been discussed over the last couple of years. If Guardian
were to purchase shares at a price that reflects this premium level, we would
prefer to own over 75% of the company. However, at whatever percentage that
might be agreed upon, we would propose a new seven member Board, with Guardian
appointing four members and Modi appointing three. We would continue to agree
to the annual fee structure of 1.75% of net sales and agree to pay an annual
dividend of 40% of net income with the exception of cold repairs or new plant
construction occur. We would also provide some form of dilution protection
where you would have protection except if new equity were required for
investments in flat glass and you decided not to participate. You could also
retain a veto on new investments outside of flat glass.
Furthermore, Guardian would have the right to buy your remaining shares in ten
years, subject to your right to retain up to 10% of the shares should you
desire, at a price determined using a similar valuation methodology as that
employed by ICICI Securities. At that time, you would remain Chairman, but
other special governance provisions would end. If you chose, you would have
the right to put any remaining shares to Guardian at any time.' From the
foregoing, it is pointed out that two facts are evident. Firstly, that GGL had
adequate reserves and was still adding to them. Secondly, the reluctance the
part of Guardian to distribute dividends on the part of Guardian did not
emanate from the reason that the reserves and surplus of the joint venture
stood assigned and reserved for utilization towards effecting any major plaint
repairs or the repairs to the cold tank and further that this aspect had been
considered by the Guardian itself.
23\. In this factual background, the petitioner MRL has urged that the
communication dated 21st July, 2006 addressed by Guardian to MRL stating that
its agreement with the petitioner stands frustrated and is terminated with
immediate effect came as a bolt out of the blue. In this communication which
deserves to be considered in extenso, the respondent wrote to the petitioner
thus:
...As you know, Guardian International Corp. (Guardian) and Modi Rubber Ltd.
(Modi Rubber) are parties to a Shareholder's Agreement dated January 23, 1990
(Agreement) with respect to the joint venture between them, namely Gujarat
Guardian Ltd. (GGL). Modi Rubber Ltd. has been in BIFR since February, 2004
and was declared sick by the BIFR on May 17, 2006. To date:
(a) Modi Rubber is no longer a financially viable partner and its future is
uncertain.
(b) Modi Rubber's management and affairs are under the effective control and
mandate of the BIFR, and the appointed Operating Agency, IDBI.
(c) There are inter-se disputes between the promoters, which further
exacerbates Modi Rubber's distressed condition.
The Agreement was founded on the premise of two financially stable and
reliable partners. This understanding stands completely eroded as a
consequence of Modi Rubber being declared a sick company by the Page 1183
BIFR, thus striking at the very substratum of the Agreement. Therefore, the
Agreement stands frustrated and is terminated effective immediately.
Further, pursuant to the terms of the Articles of Association of GGL, we
assume you will not transfer your shareholding in GGL without our prior
consent. We will continue to comply fully with the Articles of Association and
expect that you will do the same.
24\. On the same date, Guardian addressed another letter dated 21st July, 2006
to MRL requesting MRL to provide written consent to Guardian for building and
operating a wholly owned float glass manufacturing unit and fabrication plaint
in India. It is imperative to also consider the tenor of this communication
and the proposed language of the consent which was sought by Guardian which
reads thus:
...As you know, Guardian International Corp. ('Guardian'), together with
Gujarat Mineral Development Corp. ('GMDC') and Gujarat Alkalies and Chemicals
Ltd. ('GACL') are partners with Modi Rubber Limited ('Modi Rubber') in Gujarat
Guardian Limited ('GGL') . As you also know, Guardian has been deeply
concerned about the status of Modi Rubber, which has been in BIFR since
February, 2004 and which was officially declared sick by the BIFR in May,
2006. The Modi Rubber situation shows no sign of being resolved as the various
parties continue their different legal maneuvers and continue to talk about
the likelihood of litigation.
Guardian needs to expand in India. Modi Rubber is obviously not in a position
to join in any new projects and is not likely to be restructured for a long
time. Therefore, Guardian intends to establish a wholly-owned subsidiary to
build and operate a float glass manufacturing plant and, in a second phase, a
glass coating operation with advance technology. We intend to seek FIPB
approval for this expansion.
Therefore, given Modi Rubber's obvious constraint, we are writing to
respectfully request that Modi Rubber provide written consent to Guardian to
build and operate a wholly owned float glass manufacturing and fabrication
plant in India. It would be helpful if the consent is in the form attached to
this letter.
Of course, Guardian will remain the single largest shareholder in GGL and will
therefore continue to maintain, operate and support GGL in a manner consistent
with Guardian's operations worldwide. We remain fully committed to GGL's
continued success.
We trust that you appreciate the importance of this matter and the difficult
situation Guardian is in. Thank you for your careful consideration and prompt
assistance in this matter. We look forward to favorable response as soon as
possible.
25\. The proposed language for the consent of MRL which was enclosed reads
thus:
...Modi Rubber Limited ('Modi Rubber') has been advised by Guardian
International Corp. ('Guardian') that Guardian desires to establish a wholly-
owned subsidiary in India to build and operate a float glass manufacturing
plant and a glass coating facility outside of Gujarat. Modi Rubber understands
that this business would be separate from the Page 1184 existing joint
venture, Gujarat Guardian Ltd.('GGL'). Finally, Modi Rubber also understands
that Guardian is seeking FIPB approval under Press Note 18 and Press Note 1
for this planned expansion.
As such, Modi Rubber has no objection to Guardian proceeding, through one or
more wholly owned subsidiaries in India, to build and operate float glass
manufacturing and fabrication facilities such as those described above, and
Modi Rubber gives its consent to Guardian to undertake such activities
independently of Modi Rubber and GGL.
26\. The petitioner points out that such consent was imperative under the SHA
and that the very fact that Guardian has sought the consent under the SHA
negates its contention that the SHA stood terminated.
27\. Immediately thereafter on the 22nd of July, 2006, the respondent made an
application to the Foreign Investment Promotion Board (FIPB for brevity) for
approval to set up a wholly owned subsidiary in the glass manufacturing and
glass coating sector.
28\. In the meantime,the Board of Directors of MRL passed a resolution dated
12th August, 2006 deciding to oppose the attempts of the respondent to
terminate the SHA as well as its intent to set up a wholly owned subsidiary.
MRL addressed a letter dated 21st August, 2006 asserting that the purported
termination was wrongful and illegal and had no basis, either on any
contractual ground or on any statutory provision. MRL strongly urged that the
statement of facts stated by Guardian in its letter dated 21st July, 2006 were
incorrect and illusory and that the alleged termination was illegal and made
for collateral reasons. Apart from reiterating that the SHA did not permit any
of the said grounds for termination, MRL pointed out the following facts:
...(a) you will have noted from the order passed by the BIFR on May 17, 2006,
it has been effectively mandated that the Board of Directors of MRL shall
continue; as such MRL remains, in accordance with the Guidelines specified by
the BIFR, a Board managed company;
(b) the declaration of MRL as a 'sick company' is not the equivalent of a
winding up or insolvency of MRL; indeed, per applicable Indian law, this is
only the first step in the revival of the activities of a company. Hence, MRL
remains, to date, a functioning entity, and is not defunct or wound up. As you
may note from the order passed by the BIFR on May 17, 2006, the Operating
Agency has been appointed with a view to facilitate the revival. The
likelihood of such revival is clearly manifest in the fact that the Financial
Institutions, being MRL shareholders, have imputed a value of Rs. 91 per MRL
share, which would hardly have been the case, if either MRL was wound up,
defunct or if there was doubt as to the revival being undertaken or indeed as
to its financial viability on account of its asset base.
(c) As stated above, there has been no contractual breach, nor any failure to
discharge contractual obligations in the Shareholders Agreement by MRL. Nor
have the alleged non congruent points of view between the promoters been to
the detriment of GGL and/or that of Guardian, in terms of the Shareholders
Agreement. In fact MRL through its designated directors (in particular Mr.
V.K. Modi) on the Board of GGL has rendered Page 1185 vital support for the
needs and operations of the Joint Venture company leading to its continuing
successes and its highly prosperous present state. As such the question of the
Shareholders Agreement being frustrated does not arise. Guardian's action
purporting to terminate the agreement, entirely ignores Indian law on the
subject of 'frustration of contract' which governs the Shareholders Agreement.
29\. In this communication, MRL also pointed out that despite continuous
profitability of the joint venture during the last many years, no dividend had
been declared by GGL to its shareholders since inception. Consequently, at the
next meeting of the Board of Directors of GGL, it was stated that an
interim/final dividend of at least 80% of the permissible distributable
dividend be declared.
30\. Guardian replied to this communication by a letter dated 25th September,
2006 baldly disagreeing to MRL's submissions and again stated thus:
...We have received your letter of August 21, 2006 on behalf of Modi Rubber
Limited (MRL) in response to our letter of July 21, 2006 with regard to the
termination of the Shareholders Agreement dated January 23, 1990 (the
Agreement) between us. We respectfully disagree with your assertions in the
letter that there is no valid basis for the termination of the Agreement.
Given, interalia, the uncertain future of MRL arising from its 'sickness' and
the continuing public disputes between the promoters thereof, which have a
major bearing on the future of Gujarat Guardian Limited (GGL) and the inter-se
relationship between Guardian and MRL, the purpose of the Agreement is
frustrated and the Agreement therefore stands terminated as of July 21, 2006.
31\. The petitioner has pointed out that despite the above and active steps
having been taken by the MRL and its directors to overcome the sickness
including the encouraging steps taken to buy out the shares of the financial
institutions and payments having been made on or before 26th July, 2006,
Guardian, behind the back of the petitioner, was creating instability in the
market circles for MRL. Even prior to issuance of the letter dated 21st July,
2006 to MRL purportedly terminating the SHA with it, Guardian addressed a
letter dated 17th July, 2006 to Gujarat Alkalies and Chemicals Ltd (GACL), a
company of the Gujarat Government which was also holding equity in the joint
venture, seeking its written consent to build and operate a wholly owned float
glass manufacturing and fabrication plaint.
32\. The petitioner has submitted that GACL has not granted consent as sought
by Guardian and in fact has opposed setting up of the wholly owned subsidiary
by it.
The reasons advocated by Guardian for such consent in its letter of 17th July,
2006 make interesting reading and reads thus:
...Guardian Industries Corp.('Guardian') has been deeply concerned about the
status of its partner, Modi Rubber Limited ('Modi Rubber'), which is in BIFR.
The Modi Rubber situation shows no sign of being resolved as the various
parties continue their different legal maneuvers and continue to talk about
the likelihood of litigation.
Page 1186 Modi Rubber is obviously not in a position to join in any new
projects and is not likely to be restructured for quite some time.
Additionally, Guardian, as a matter of strategy, locates its float glass
plants geographically to optimize proximity to markets and logistics costs.
Therefore, Guardian's next float glass plant in India will be built outside of
Gujarat, at some distance from GGL's facility. Guardian has received advice
that it should undertake any expansion plans that it may have in India on its
own. We intend to establish a wholly-owned subsidiary to build and operate a
float glass manufacturing plant and, in a second phase, a glass coating
operation.
We are writing to respectfully request that GACL provide written consent for
Guardian to build and operate a wholly owned float glass manufacturing and
fabrication plant in India. It would be helpful to us if you written consent
were to certain the language shown on the enclosed sheet.
xxxx xxxx
33\. Despite the stand taken by Guardian in its letter dated 21st July, 2006
purportedly terminating its SHA with MRL, on the 24th July, 2006, it also
filed O.M.P. No. 337/2006 titled Guardian International Corporation v. Modi
Rubber Ltd. before this Court seeking the following prayers:
(a) to restrain the respondent from transferring its shareholding in Gujarat
Guardian Limited without the prior consent of the petitioner and without
giving a pre-emptive right to purchase the said shares to the petitioner.
(b) pass such further or other orders as this Hon'ble Court may deem fit and
proper in the circumstance of the case.
34\. It has been pointed out on behalf of MRL that by way of this petition,
Guardian was again seeking enforcement of its rights under the SHA. In answer
to this submission Mr. Mukul Rohatagi, Senior Advocate has argued at great
length on behalf of the respondent that it was merely ensuring compliance by
MRL with the Memorandum and Articles of Association of the joint venture.
35\. Perusal of the application filed by Guardian shows that it has been
captioned as an application under Section 9 of the Arbitration and
Conciliation Act, 1996. The arbitration clause which has been referred and
reproduced in para 9 of the petition is clause 26 of the SHA dated 23rd
January, 1990 which has been reproduced hereinabove.
36\. In para 21 of the petition, Guardian relies on clause 6 of the SHA and
has stated that:
21\. Petitioner is deeply concerned about the future of Respondent and the
status of Respondent's shareholding in GGL. A scheme of rehabilitation has
still not been formulated. The petitioner apprehends that the Respondent's
shareholding in GGL may be sold under a scheme of rehabilitation to third
parties without the express consent of the petitioner and without giving a
pre- emptive right to purchase the said shares to the petitioner. The
Shareholders Agreement and the very Page 1187 purpose and spirit behind it
also contemplated that the identity of the joint venture (GGL) to be
maintained and third parties not be introduced. The very purpose of the joint
venture was to ensure that business may be carried on by like minded people
and that should any one shareholder seek to exit from the joint venture, they
would make the shares available to the other continuing members. This clear
intention was expressly stated in Clause 6 of the Shareholders Agreement and
such intention came to be reflected in the Articles of Association of GGL and
in particular Article 3 which contemplated maintenance of the shareholding
pattern. While the said Article mandates such maintenance of the shareholding
pattern which would disentitle the respondent in transferring shares in GGL,
it is submitted, the clause in the Shareholders Agreement offering pre-emptive
rights reflects a clear intention of the shareholders, which would continue
even after the Shareholders Agreement has come to an end. Further this clause
is not restricted to the period of the Shareholders Agreement but forms an
independent and severable agreement amongst the shareholders. However, it
appears that the Respondent cannot be depended upon to be bound by the
restrictions on the transfer of shares, which is compounded by the factum of
the Respondent being a 'sick' company within the purview of BIFR. It further
transpires that the inter se disputes between the promoters of the Respondent
company are also fuelled by their interest and intention to participate in
GGL. It is in fact the stand of the petitioner that given the circumstances
under which the Shareholders Agreement stood frustrated, the very raison
d'etre for the participation of the Respondent in GGL no longer stands. The
petitioner is willing to buy the respondents shareholding in GGL and willing
to pay a fair price for the same, and the petitioner believes that the
respondent ought to transfer its shareholding in GGL in favor of the
petitioner. These are, however, all disputed issues which perforce would need
to be resolved as per the arbitration clause (Clause 26) in the Shareholders
Agreement. It is, however, imperative that pending such imminent arbitration
proceedings, urgent interim orders are passed by this Hon'ble Court. Hence
this petition.
xxxx xxxx xxxx
23\. Therefore, in the interest of justice and in aid of the Arbitration
Agreement in the Shareholders Agreement, the petitioner is seeking to restrain
the respondent from taking any steps from transferring its shares in GGL
without the consent of the petitioner and without giving a pre-emptive right
to purchase the said shares to the petitioner.
24\. The petitioner therefore submits that it is absolutely just, necessary
and convenient that the respondent, its officers and directors are restrained
in any manner from transferring any of its shareholdings in GGL without the
consent of the petitioner and without giving a pre-emptive right to purchase
the said shares to the petitioner. The petitioner also craves leave that in
the event of change in the ultimate and beneficial ownership of the
respondent, they be permitted to seek other reliefs. xxx xxxx xxxx Page 1188
26\. The petitioner states that the Memorandum of Understanding with the
respondent was negotiated in Delhi, the Shareholders Agreement was negotiated
in Delhi, the respondent is carrying on the business at Delhi, their Delhi
office is the designated address, inter alia, for service of the respondent
even as per the Shareholders Agreement and therefore the Respondent carries on
business within the jurisdiction of this Hon'ble Court. The petitioner has
always corresponded with the respondent at Delhi. This Hon'ble Court therefore
has the jurisdiction to entertain and try the present petition.
37\. O.M.P. No. 337/2006 rested on the assertion that by an order dated 12th
March, 2005 passed by the learned Company Judge at Allahabad, MRL had been
directed to be wound up in Company Petition No. 1/2002 passed by the High
Court of Judicature at Allahabad.
It has been pointed out that it was only on account of the order dated 20th
May, 2004 passed by the Division Bench of the High Court of Judicature at
Allahabad in Special Appeal No. 420/2004 that the winding up was not
effectuated.
On these facts, Guardian has contended in its Section 9 petition that the very
continuance of MRL as a strong and viable partner in the joint venture is in
jeopardy; there are interse disputes between the promoters of MRL; MRL has
been declared sick and its management and affairs are subject to control and
mandate of the BIFR and the operating agency IDBI and consequently, the entire
substratum of the SHA stands eroded by the frustration thereof.
38\. The petitioner has urged that the letter dated 6th July, 2006 and the
letter dated 21st July, 2006 support the submission that the respondent
Guardian was treating the SHA dated 23rd January, 1990 as subsisting and the
averments of Guardian in O.M.P. No. 337/2006 and as well as the relief sought
therein bears out the fact that the SHA stood neither frustrated nor
terminated and that Guardian was itself treating the same subsisting.
39\. On the 22nd July, 2006, Guardian also filed a caveat petition under
Section 148A of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 before this Court.
40\. In O.M.P. No. 337/2006, the following order was recorded on 28th July,
2006:
O.M.P. No. 337/2006 Notice. Mr. Arjun Pant, Advocate accepts notice for the
respondent and prays for time to file reply. Let the reply be filed within six
weeks. Rejoinder thereto, if any, be filed before the next date.
The petitioner, inter alia, places reliance on the Article of Association of
the petitioner company to point out that as per the Memorandum and Article of
Association of the company, Clause 3 (b) governing the share capital clearly
provided the pattern and shareholding of the company. This position is not
disputed on behalf of the respondent. The petitioner has expressed
apprehension that respondent would transfer its shareholding in violation of
clause 3 (b) of the Memorandum and Articles of Association. Such transfer
would be clearly permissible.
Page 1189 In view of the above, it is directed that the parties shall maintain
the shareholding in terms of Clause 3 (b) of the Memorandum and Articles of
Association of the petitioner.
41\. In this factual background, the petitoner has filed the present petition
under Section 9 of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 urging that the
action of the respondent in proposing to set up a wholly owned subsidiary is
in absolute breach of the SHA, and that the same would negatively impact the
interest of the joint venture and jeopardise its business and profitability
thereby causing irreparable loss and damage to it. It has urged that the
termination of the agreement by the letter dated Page 1190 21st July, 2006 was
illegal and contractually impermissible.
42\. The petitioner also points out that despite the order dated 28th July,
2006, Guardian took no steps to initiate the arbitration as per the
arbitration clause 26 of the SHA and that the whole effort of Guardian was to
compel the MRL to sell its shareholding to it and to dump the existing joint
venture partner.
43\. Apprehensive that the respondent could effectuate setting up its wholly
owned subsidiary causing irreparable loss to GGL and asserting breach of the
afore-noticed Clause 14 of the SHA, the petitioner has sought the following
reliefs by way of the present petition:
(a) restrain the respondent or its affiliates or associates from
participating, negotiating or engaging or be financially interested, directly
or indirectly in any other project for the manufacturing of float glass, or
for the fabrication of products made from float glass, or for the sale,
import/export of float glass or related products made from float glass in
India;
(b) restrain the respondent from taking any step in setting up a wholly owned
subsidiary in India for manufacturing in the same filed as GGL;
(c) restrain the respondent from pursuing the application made to the
Government of India (now pending before the Foreign Investment Promotion
Board) for approval to set up a wholly owned subsidiary in the glass
manufacturing and glass coating sector;
(d) restrain the respondent from acting in furtherance of the application No.
141/2006-F.C.I. filed before the FIPB;
(e) grant ex-parte ad-interim reliefs in terms of clause (a) to (d) above; and
xxxx xxxx'.
44\. Inasmuch as no interim relief was granted in this matter, the petition
was put to final hearing. Long arguments have been addressed by both sides and
voluminous submissions laid before this Court. During the course of the
hearing, it appears that Guardian has on 16th October, 2006 filed a reference
for arbitration before the London Court of International Arbitration.
45\. MRL has submitted that, in its reply, it has opposed the reliefs prayed
for by the respondent and has also made counter claims against the respondent
company to the effect that the SHA including clause 14 continues to be valid
and binding between the parties.
46\. Mr. Arun Jaitley, learned senior counsel for the petitioner has contended
that the purported termination of the agreement by the letter dated 21st July,
2006 by the respondent is ex facie illegal as well as unlawful and being
contrary to the specific stipulations between the parties as contained in
clause 16 of the SHA. The term of the SHA has been set out in the agreement
and termination can be only in accordance with the specific stipulations
therein. It is submitted that the respondent in its request for Arbitration to
the LCIA has itself raised a question about the validity of the termination
and has sought arbitration on its legality. The agreement therefore is
subsisting and the respondent is bound by the prohibition and the negative
covenant contained in clause 14 of the SHA and consequently liable to be
injuncted.
47\. In support of these submissions, the pronouncement of the Apex Court
Gujarat Bottling Co. Ltd. v. Coca Cola and Anr. has been placed before this
Court. Strong reliance is also placed on the pronouncement of the Division
Bench of this Court dated 23rd October, 1998 in FAO (OS) No. 251/1998 titled
Goyal MG Gases Ltd. v. Griesheim Gmbh.
48\. My attention has further been drawn to the pronouncements of learned
Single Judges of this Court wherein this Court has directed enforcement of the
negative covenant in different agreements between the parties. In this regard,
learned senior counsel placed reliance on the judgment dated 19th December,
2002 passed in CS (OS) No. 915/2002 The Chancellor, Masters and Scholars of
the University of Oxford v. Orient Longmans Pvt. Ltd.; AIR 1993 Delhi 93
Velmer Hindustan v. LCR Corporation and 73 (1998) DLT 374 Old World
Hospitality v. ILC.
49\. On these submissions, it has been contended that balance of convenience
and interest of justice are wholly in favor of the petitioner. It is submitted
that it is MRL shall suffer an irreparable loss and damage if the respondent
proceeds to implement its proposal to set up a wholly owned subsidiary in
violation of the non compete clause which shall irreversibly and irreparably
impact the business of GGL, the joint venture. According to Mr. Jaitley,
learned senior counsel, as a result the respondent would move new technology
into the parallel business. It would impact the expansion potential of GGL,
the joint venture company, very deeply inasmuch as the clients of the joint
venture would go into the parallel business. The value of the equity of the
joint venture would be also impacted and would go down sharply.
50\. It has further been pointed out that merely because one of the partners
of the joint venture was before the BIFR, does not give any immunity to the
respondent against its contractual obligations. So far as the contract between
the partner which is before the BIFR and the respondent is concerned, the same
remains valid and binding. The respondent cannot terminate the agreement for
any reason other than the stipulations contained in the agreement itself.
Consequently, the unilateral termination by the respondent for reasons which
are not stipulated in the agreement between the parties, Page 1191 is illegal
and so long as the parties continue to maintain the shareholding in terms of
the SHA, the agreement subsists. The respondent is consequently bound by the
non compete clause.
51\. It has further been contended that before this Court, the respondents
have tried to place reliance on the tentative proposals placed by one of the
directors of the petitioner before the BIFR giving different alternatives
whereby MRL could liquidate its liabilities. Such proposal, it is explained,
was not by or on behalf of the petitioner company.
According to Mr. Jaitley, learned senior counsel, so far as the transfer of
shareholding held by the parties to the SHA is concerned, clause 6 permits
transfers to affiliates and associates provided that they are not competitors
in the business. One of the alternative suggested by the Director related to a
proposal to transfer shareholding in the joint venture. This proposal nowhere
stipulated that the transfer would be in violation of clause 6 of the SHA.
Such a tentative proposal which is one of the several alternatives placed
before the BIFR, and low down in the priorities of the suggestions would not
permit the respondent to breach its contractual obligations under the SHA.
52\. The main plank of the respondents' submissions has been that the
petitioner has not challenged the termination by the communication dated 21st
July, 2006 in any proceedings and that no challenge has been laid to the same
even in the present petition. It is contended that the reliefs sought in the
present petition are based only on the non compete clause in the SHA. Such a
clause could be pressed only if the agreement was in force or continued to
operate between the parties. The agreement having been terminated, all
bindings of the parties thereby ceased to exist or bind the parties.
Consequently, the negative covenant in the contract or the non-compete clause
cannot be enforced against the respondent inasmuch as the contract between the
parties stands determined and ceases to exist.
53\. Mr. Mukul Rohtagi, learned senior counsel has also urged at great length
that in terms of the proposal which was laid before the FIPB, in order to set
up a wholly owned subsidiary, the respondent has to invest more than US$ 200
million in the proposed new plant. This involves an amount of US $ 66 million
in equity while an amount of US $ 134 million is to be raised from the market.
Such an investment by Guardian strongly adds to India's economic growth.
Learned senior counsel has urged at length that the new plant is not in any
manner going to compete with the market or the business of the joint venture
and that unless new technology and products are brought into India, the
business of the joint venture itself would suffer. The two competitors of the
joint venture i.e M/s Saint Gobain and M/s Asahi Glass have brought out the
new products and new ranges in the product in a big way, strongly jeopardising
the joint venture.
54\. It is pointed out that in the light of the Guardian's huge stake in the
joint venture, in case the business of the joint venture suffers, Guardian
suffers the most. The submission is that it is in Guardian's commercial
interest as well not to do anything which would jeopardise the business
interest of the joint venture.
Page 1192
55\. Mr. Mukul Rohtagi, learned senior counsel for the respondent has pointed
out that even the FIPB has required a guarantee that the health of the joint
venture is not impacted in any manner by the proposed new subsidiary.
Consequently, it is urged that instead of Guardian being like the 'big fish
trying to eat a small fish', it is in fact, acting as the big brother
protecting the smaller brother.
56\. On the afore-noticed facts, it is vehemently submitted that the new
project to be set up by Guardian is its wholly owned subsidiary. It is not a
collaboration with any other Indian or foreign partner. Consequently there is
no question of there being any competition with the joint venture or any
outsider becoming privy to the business secrets of the joint venture. On these
facts, Mr. Mukul Rohtagi, learned senior counsel has urged at great length
that despite repeated promises that MRL would get out of its industrial
sickness promptly and ensure finalization of the proceedings before the BIFR,
it has been unable to do so. On the contrary, it has put forth a proposal of
sale of its shareholding in the joint venture resulting in extreme insecurity
and uncertainty.
For all these reason, Guardian is satisfied and is not willing to participate
in the expansion activities of the joint venture which would involve precious
financial and technological implications. On these facts, it is urged that MRL
is not entitled to any injunction to prevent Guardian from expanding.
57\. In the facts of the case, it has been pointed out that MRL is guilty of
concealment of material facts in the petition inasmuch as it has not informed
this Court about the proposal which was laid before the BIFR with regard to
the sale of its shareholding in the joint venture and that in the light of
their being no challenge to the validity of the termination on behalf of the
petitioner, no stay of the same can be granted to MRL in the present
proceedings.
In any case, it is urged by Mr. Mukul Rohtagi, learned senior counsel for the
respondent that the relief which a petitioner may be entitled to under Section
9 of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 cannot amount to the relief
which the arbitrators may award ultimately. It has been contended that Section
9 is preservatory and is not adjudicatory and for this reason as well no
relief is admissible to the petitioner in the present petition. On these
submissions, the respondent has urged that the petition fails to disclose a
prima facie case, that balance of convenience and interests of justice are in
favor of the respondent and that the petitioner has failed to make out a case
of irreparable injury, disentitling it to any relief.
58\. The submissions on behalf of the respondents can be briefly summed up
thus:
(I) The petition at the instance of MRL is not maintainable since it has not
invoked the arbitration agreement and that the petitioner has not challenged
the termination of the SHA in any proceedings including the present petition.
(II) The arbitration proceedings have already commenced. MRL has objected to
the very initiation of the arbitration proceedings as being pre-mature and
consequently cannot invoke the jurisdiction of this Court under Section 9 of
the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996.
Page 1193 (III) Clause 14 of the SHA is not binding on the parties for the
reason that it has not been incorporated in the Articles of Association of
GGL, the joint venture.
(IV) The SHA cannot be enforced for the reason that it stands terminated on
the grounds of frustration and the petitioner has failed to make out a prima
facie case for grant of injunction in the following circumstances:
(i). MRL had been declared sick by the BIFR. Its total dues as on 31st March,
2003 were in excess of Rs. 250-300 crores and its net worth had been
completely eroded. MRL's industrial operations and products stood shut down
since 2001.
(ii). Shares of the joint venture GGL as held by MRL have been treated by it
as investments. Under the provisions of Sick Industrial Companies (Special
Provisions) Act, the operating agency has the power to sell the assets of MRL
in order to revive the company. Shares of GGL as held by MRL are the most
valuable assets of MRL. Consequently, there is continuing uncertainty with
regard to the sale of GGL's shares held by MRL to a third party. This would
lend uncertainty to the partner with whom Guardian would be compelled to work
in the joint venture.
(iii). By the order dated 20th May, 2004 passed by the High Court of
Judicature at Allahabad, MRL had been ordered to be wound up. This matter was
even on date pending before the Supreme Court.
(iv). It has been submitted that MRL has filed an application dated 22nd
August, 2006 wherein it has been repeatedly contended in paras 5.3, 5.4, 6.2
and 7.4 that the revival could be funded by sale of shares of MRL in GGL.
There is continuous contentious fighting between the two brothers Mr. V.K.
Modi and Dr. B.K. Modi with regard to the control of MRL, lending further
uncertainty to the future of one major partner in the joint venture.
(v). MRL has thus put forth a revival plan before the BIFR in which it has
envisaged sale of its shareholding in the joint venture GGL. The revival plan
put forth by MRL banks in a long way on the sale of its shareholding in GGL.
(vi). Guardian owns 50% equity in the joint venture GGL. It has five nominee
directors on the Board of Directors of GGL, out of a total of ten directors.
It has a substantial stake of more than Rs. 450 crores in GGL. It is pointed
out that on the other hand, MRL is holding only 21.24% shares in the joint
venture and shares the directorships with the nominees of the Gujarat
Government companies. In this behalf, reliance has been placed on Article 112
of the Articles of Association to urge that a downfall in the business of GGL
impacts the profits of respondent more than those of the petitioner.
(vii). Guardian finds itself unable to undertake any expansion in existing
business of GGL in partnership with MRL because of the uncertainty and
insecurity within MRL.
(viii). Any proposal to undertake expansion activities in the joint venture
requires an approval of both Guardian and MRL's directors Page 1194 and not
that of his nominated directors of Guardian alone. In this behalf, Article 148
(xiv) of the Articles of Association so stipulates.
(ix). The cold tank of the plant requires repairs and such a requirement is a
certainty. The cash which would be required for this purpose would be to the
tune of US $ 45 million. Such repairs are required to be undertaken in the
coming two years beginning from 2007 though actual repairs may start in the
year 2008. Merely shifting the reserve for such repairs from one heading to
another for accounting purposes is distinct from having the actual cash to pay
for the same. Such an amount has to be maintained in order to have the reserve
to effectuate the repairs.
(x) Guardian cannot be compelled to share its cutting edge technology and new
technologies for new products under any agreement with the MRL or with the
existing joint venture.
(xi). M/s Saint Gobain and M/s Asahi Glass, the competitors to the joint
venture GGL in India, have already set up second plants in India which has
aggravated the need for a new project to be set up which would complement the
joint venture GGL's production facility.
(xii). The Foreign Investment Promotion Board FIPB has granted permission to
Guardian, USA to start a new project on terms and conditions stipulated in the
permission granted to it. The FIPB stands satisfied that the joint venture
would not be harmed or prejudiced if the Guardian is permitted to set up a new
wholly owned subsidiary. The findings of the FIPB are those returned by the
expert body set up by the Government of India which is prima facie evidence of
the fact that the new venture shall not compete with the joint venture but
rather complement it.
It has been submitted that FIPB gave a personal hearing to both sides; that
FIPB is an expert body of the Government of India and it has passed its orders
after giving a detailed hearing to the objections raised by MRL.
(xiii). Guardian has repeatedly offered to buy out the MRL's shareholding in
the joint venture at a valuation arrived at by ICICI Securities Ltd. and an
application to this effect was also filed in the pending proceedings before
the BIFR. Guardian has had discussions with Mr. V.K. Modi in this behalf
continuously and has clearly expressed its intention to Mr. V.K. Modi to
acquire the shareholding of MRL as well as that of the Gujarat Government
Companies in the joint venture which would then be sold to Guardian.
(xiv). MRL has never proposed to purchase Guardian's shareholding in the joint
venture GGL. The proposal to this effect itself is preposterous inasmuch as
the MRL's net worth stood eroded and it had been declared sick by BIFR.
(xv). Termination of the SHA by Guardian does not impact the continuance and
profitability of the joint venture GGL as a company. It shall continue to be
run in accordance with its Articles of Association and because of its
extensive stake holding in this Page 1195 joint venture, the respondent shall
continue with its active and healthy participation in the business and affairs
of GGL.
(xvi) It is vehemently urged that the joint venture would not be harmed in any
manner if the new company is permitted to be set up by Guardian. No loss would
result to MRL nor would the value of its shares go down inasmuch as Guardian
would continue to support GGL.
59\. Having heard learned senior counsels for both sides at great length, I
have given my thoughtful consideration to the record laid before this Court
and the submissions made. The nature of the issues raised which includes a
challenge to the very maintainability of the petition at the instance of the
petitioner have necessitated a close factual analysis. I have endeavored to
crystallise the propositions for clarity which I propose to deal with
hereafter. Clause 14 of the Share Holder Agreement is illegal and not binding
as the same is not contained in the Articles of Association of the Joint
Venture of GGL.
60\. An objection has been taken by the respondents in their arguments to the
effect that Clause 14 of the SHA dated 23rd January, 1990, was not
incorporated in the Article of Association of the joint venture GGL and
consequently would not bind the parties. (Ground III in para 58 above) Placing
reliance on the pronouncement of the Supreme Court in V.B. Rangaraj v. V.B.
Gopalakrishnan and Ors. and the pronouncement of the Bombay High Court
reported at 2004 (121) Company Case 335 IL and FS Trust Company Limited and
Arn. v. Birla Perucchini Limited and Ors. it is contended that it is only the
Article of Association which binds the shareholders.
61\. On the other hand, Mr. Arun Jaitley, learned senior counsel for the
petitioner, has urged that Clause 14 of the SHA did not relate to a matter
effecting the affairs of the joint venture. Learned senior counsel has placed
reliance on another pronouncement of the Apex Court reported at M.S.
Madhusoodhanan and Anr. v. Kerala Kaumodi Pvt. Limited and Ors. to urge that
such a covenant as contained in clause 14 would bind the parties thereto
irrespective of whether it was contained in the Article of Association or not.
62\. It is well settled that a judgment would be relied on the facts in which
it has been rendered. A judgment cannot be applied in an abstract without
consideration of the facts in which the principles were laid down. In Haryana
Financial Corporation and Anr. v. Jagdamba Oil Mills and Anr. the Supreme
Court state that:
19\. Courts should not place reliance on decisions without discussing as to
how the factual situation fits in with the fact situation of the decision Page
1196 on which reliance is placed. Observations of Courts are not to be read as
Euclid's theorems nor as provisions of the statute. These observations must be
read in the context in which they appear. Judgments of courts are not to be
construed as statutes. To interpret words, phrases and provisions of a
statute, it may become necessary for judges to embark into lengthy discussion
but the discussion is meant to explain and not to define. Judges interpret
statutes, they do not interpret judgments. They interpret words of statutes,
their words are not to be interpreted as statutes. In London Graving Dock Co.
Ltd. v. Horton 1951 AC 737 at P.761, Lord Mac Dermot observed:
The matter cannot, of course, be settled merely by treating the ipsissima
vertra of Willes, J. as though they were part of an Act of Parliament and
applying the rules of interpretation appropriate thereto. This is not to
detract from the great weight to be given to the language actually used by
that most distinguished judge.' In Home Office v. Doreset Yacht Co. 1970 (2)
All ER 294 Lord Reid said, 'Lord Atkin's speech...is not to be treated as if
it was a statute definition. It will require qualification in new
circumstances.' Megarry, J. in (1971) 1 WLR 1062 observed : 'One must not, of
course, construe even a reserved judgment of even Russell L.J. as if it were
an Act of Parliament.' And, in Herrington v. British Railways Board (1972) 2
WLR 537 Lord Morris said:
There is always peril in treating the words of a speech or judgment as though
they are words in a legislative enactment, and it is to be remembered that
judicial utterances made in the setting of the facts of a particular case.'
Circumstantial flexibility, one additional or different fact may make a world
of difference between conclusions in two cases. Disposal of cases by blindly
placing reliance on a decision is not proper.
63\. This principle was reiterated by the Supreme Court in 2004 (8) AD (SC)
468 Kesar Devi v. Union of India and 2004 (7) AD (SC) 109 U.P. Co-operative
Cane Unions Federations v. West U.P. Sugar Mills Association and Ors. etc. It
has also been dealt with in 2004 (109) DLT 763 M.C. Khullar v. Union of India
and Ors.
64\. In a recent decision reported at State of Haryana v. M.P. Mohla, also the
Apex Court has observed thus:
19\. A judgment as is well known must be read in its entirety. The judgment of
a court must also be implemented. But what would be the effect of a judgment
must be considered from the reliefs claimed in the writ petition as also the
implications thereof which has to be deciphered from reading the entire
judgment. A judgment may also have to be read on the touchstone of pleadings
of the parties.
65\. It therefore becomes necessary to consider the facts which were before
the Supreme Court in V.B. Rangaraj v. V.B. Gopalkrishnan and Ors. In this
case, the plaintiffs had placed reliance on an oral agreement to the Page 1197
effect that two branches of the family who were the shareholders in the
company, would continue to hold equal number of shares therein and that if any
member in either of the branches wished to sell its share/shares, he would
give the first option to purchase the members of that branch. Only if the
offer so made was not accepted that the shares would be sold to others. The
defendant No. 1, who was the son of one brother sold shares to the sons of the
other brother without giving the first option to the member of his father's
family. In these circumstances, the sale of shares and their transfer was
challenged by his brothers.
It was held by the court that the restriction which was urged on behalf of the
plaintiff, was a blanket restriction on all the shares, present or future, and
that such a restriction was not provided in the Articles of Association of the
company. It was pointed out that that Section 82 of the Companies Act defines
the nature of shares and states that the shares or other interest of any
member in the company shall be the moveable property transferable in the
manner provided in the Article of Association of the company. It was in these
circumstances held that so far as the restrictions on the transfer of shares
was concerned, the same would be regulated by the Articles of Association of
the company and any agreement which does not form part of the Article of
Association, cannot be urged to deny registration of the shares purchased by a
vendee on any ground other than those contained in the Articles.
There is certainly no such issue in the present case.
66\. So far as the pronouncement of the Bombay High Court in 2004 (121)
Company Cases 335 IL and FS Trust Co. Ltd. and Anr. v. Birla Perucchini Ltd.
and Ors. is concerned, it appears that a Subscription cum Share Holders
Agreement was entered into on March 25, 2000 between the petitioners, the
respondent company and the second respondent. The Articles of Association of
the company were duly amended for implementation of the provisions of this
share holders agreement. On disputes arising, the petitioners sought a
reference to arbitration under the arbitration agreement contained in Article
16 of the Subscription cum Share Holders Agreement dated 25th March, 2000. In
a petition filed under Section 11 of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act,
1996, a reference to arbitration was made by the court on 13th September,
2002. The petitioners also filed a petition under Section 9 of the Arbitration
and Conciliation Act, 1996 seeking certain injunctions.
In this background, the court noticed that the provisions contained in the
subscription cum share holders agreement were translated into an amendment of
the Articles of Association. However, the provisions contained in Article 3.10
of the subscription agreement which provided that the promoters undertook that
the second respondent shall not resign from the Board 'till the validity of
the agreement' was not translated into an amendment of the Articles of
Association of the company. The effect of Article 3.10 was that the respondent
No. 2 was rendered a permanent director of the company.
Placing reliance on the Division Bench pronouncement reported at 2000 (100)
Company Cases 19, Rolta India Ltd. v. Venire Industries Ltd. and Anr., the
Page 1198 court held that subject to the provisions of the Companies Act, the
company and its members are bound by the provisions contained in the Articles
of Association. The Articles regulate the internal management of the company
and define the powers of its officers. It was also observed that the Articles
would be a contract between the company and its members and between the
members interse and that the contract governs the ordinary rights and
obligations incidental to the membership in the company. It was in this
background that the court held that the provisions in the Subscription cum
Share Holders Agreement as contained in clause 3.10 cannot be given effect to
so far as the management of the affairs of the company is concerned unless
those provisions have been incorporated into its Articles of Association.
67\. The issue raised before the Bombay High Court in IL and FS Trust Co. Ltd.
was also therefore not the issue which is being considered by this Court.
68\. The instant case is certainly not concerned with any restriction or
stipulation relating to management of the affairs of GGL, the joint venture.
The agreement between the parties relates to an agreement not to enter into
such business which is the same as or similar to the business of GGL, the
company that is the joint venture. There is a fundamental difference between
such an agreement as against an agreement relating to restriction on transfer
of share holding or functioning as directors of a company which would be
governed by the Companies Act and the Articles of Association of the company.
69\. It is also necessary to notice that in the instant case, so far as the
restriction on transfer of share holding is concerned, the parties had
covenanted and also provided for a pre-emptory right to purchase the shares of
the company as was contained in clause 6 of the share holders agreement dated
23rd January, 1990.
70\. So far as the transfer of share holding is concerned, there is no dispute
that the same has to take effect in accordance with the provisions of the
Companies Act and Section 82 shall have effect notwithstanding anything to the
contrary contained in the memorandum or articles of association of a company
which are in the nature of a contract between its various members. It is well
settled that the articles of a private limited company may regulate the
transfer of shares and place restriction on it but there can be no absolute
bar to the transfer of shares.
71\. In AIR 1928 Privy Council 291 Ontario Jockey Club v. Samuel Mc. bride, it
was held that a restriction which precludes a share holder altogether from
transferring a share may be invalid but a restriction which does no more than
give a right of pre-emption is valid. The Bombay High Court in a judgment
reported at 2000 (100) Company Cases 19 Rolta India Ltd. v. Venire Industries
Ltd. and Anr. was called upon to consider a restriction contained in a pooling
agreement with regard to restriction of number of directors of the Board. The
court held that a pooling agreement cannot be used to supersede the statutory
rights given to the board of directors to manage the company, the underlying
reason being that the share holders cannot achieve by a pooling agreement that
which is prohibited to them, if they are voting individually. Therefore, Page
1199 the power of share holders to unite is not extended to a contract whereby
restrictions are placed on the powers of directors to manage the business of
the corporation. The only restriction which would be recognised as binding on
the company would be under the statute or in the Articles of Association.
It was such an agreement between the shareholders which was held by the court
as being capable of such construction as to constitute a contract not binding
on the company even if the company had taken note of the same or acted
thereupon. The court had held that an interim injunction restraining the right
of the company to be a director in the interest of a company would amount to
stultifying the management of the company. The principles laid down herein
certainly do not apply to the instant case.
72\. At this stage, it would be topical and instructive to refer to the
judicial pronouncement reported at M.S. Madhusoodhanan and Anr.Vs. Kerala
Kaumudi Pvt. Ltd.
The court was called upon to consider the validity of an agreement dated 16th
January, 1986 referred to as 'karar' which sought to get the partition of
assets by mutual consent and was executed between Madhavi, Mani,
Madhusoodhanan, Srinivasan and Ravi. It also provided that Madhavi would be
the Chairman of the company known as Kerala Kaumudi Pvt. Ltd. during her
lifetime; that there would be no change in the existing share structure during
the lifetime of Madhavi; that after the death of Madhavi, the shares of Kerala
Kamudi should be so given that Madhusoodhan gets 50% of the total shares of
the company including the shares owned by Ravi and Srinivasan; Srinivasan and
Ravi gets 25% each. The court held that the karar was in the nature of family
settlement seeking to settle the disputes between the brothers and that the
three brothers having taken full benefit of the karar were bound to comply
with all of its terms. It was not open to them to accept that portion of the
karar which was in their favor and jettison the rest.
73\. In the submission before the Supreme Court, the respondents placed
reliance on the earlier decision of the court rendered in V.B. Rangaraj v.
V.B. Gopalakrishnan and Ors. (supra) to urge that the transfer of shares of
Sukumar and Madhavi was contrary to the Articles of Association of the company
and could not be enforced.
After a consideration of the law on the subject, it was noticed that shares
were moveable properties and transferable. Private companies like the
respondent restricted the share holders' right to transfer shares and prohibit
invitations to the public to subscribe for shares or debentures in the company
by the Articles of Association.
However, subject to this restriction, a shareholder in a private company may
agree to sell his shares to a person of his choice. In para 141 of the
judgment, the court held that such agreement is specifically enforceable under
Section 10 of the Specific Relief Act, 1963 inasmuch as the shares in a Page
1200 private limited company would come within the phrase 'not obtainable in
the market' as specified in the explanation to Section 10.
It was further held in para 142 that, while it is imperative that the company
should be a party to any agreement relating to the allotment of new shares,
before such an agreement can be enforced it is not necessary for the company
to be a party in any agreement relating to the transfer of issued shares. For
such agreement to be specifically enforced between the parties for transfer,
the court considered the decision rendered in Rangaraj case and observed thus:
144\. The decision does not in any way hold that the transfer of shares agreed
to between shareholders inter se does not bind them or cannot be enforced like
any other agreement.
145\. In Rangaraj case relied upon by the respondents, an agreement was
entered into between the members of the family who were the only shareholders
of a private company. The agreement was that for all times to come each of the
branches of the family would always continue to hold equal number of shares
and that if any member in either of the branches wished to sell his
share/shares, he would give the first option of purchase to the members of
that branch and only if the offer so made was not accepted, the shares would
be sold to others. This was a blanket restriction on all the shareholders,
present and future. Contrary to the agreement, one of the shareholders of one
branch sold his shares to members of the second branch. Such sale was
challenged in a suit as being void and not binding on the other shareholders.
This Court rejected the challenge holding that the agreement imposed a
restriction on shareholders' rights to transfer shares which was contrary to
the Articles of Association of the Company. It was, therefore, held that such
a restriction was not binding on the Company or its shareholders. The decision
is entirely distinguishable on facts. There is no such restriction on the
transferability of shares in the karar. It was an agreement between particular
shareholders relating to the transfer of specified shares, namely, those
inherited from the late Sukumaran and Madhavi, inter se. It was unnecessary
for the Company or the other shareholders to be a party to the agreement. As
provided in clause 10 of the karar, Exhibits R-59 and R-60 did not obviate
compliance with the karar. Both Exts. R-59 and R-60 were executed on
15-7-1985, several months prior to the karar. The parties who had consciously
entered into the agreement regarding the transfer of their parents' shares
are, therefore, obliged to act in terms of the karar. The defense of Ravi and
Srinivasan based on Exts. R-59 and R-60 should not, in the circumstances, have
been accepted by the Division Bench. Having regard to the nature of the
shareholding, on the basis of the law as enunciated by the Federal Court and
the Privy Council in the decisions noted above, it must be held that the karar
was specifically performable.
74\. In order to appreciate the submissions made in this case, Clause 6 of the
SHA deserves to be considered in extenso and reads thus:
6\. Transfer of Shares 6.1 If Guardian International (and/or its Affiliate or
Associate) wishes to sell or otherwise dispose of some or all of the shares of
the company Page 1201 owned by it, Guardian International (on behalf of such
proposed disposing party) shall first offer in writing such shares to MRL (or
MRL's nominee) at the price and other terms specified by it in such offer. MRL
shall, within a period of sixty (60) days after the receipt of such offer,
notify Guardian International if MRL (or such nominee) will accept such offer
(subject to obtaining any requisite approvals of the Reserve Bank of India,
the Department of Company Affairs, or any other institution or department of
the Government of India or any political subdivision thereof). If MRL fails to
notify Guardian International of its acceptance of the offer as aforesaid,
Guardian International (or its Affiliates or Associates) shall be entitled to
sell or otherwise dispose of the shares to third parties at the aforesaid
price. Should Guardian International (or its Affiliates or Associates) fail to
sell or otherwise dispose of such shares at the said price, any of them shall
be entitled to sell or otherwise dispose of the shares to third parties at a
lower price; provided, however, that Guardian International (on behalf of such
proposed disposing party) shall first have offered the shares at such lower
price to MRL in accordance with the aforesaid procedure. Guardian
International (or its Affiliates or Associates) shall be entitled at any time,
without liability to any person, to decline to sell or otherwise dispose of
its shares if the price approved by the Controller of Capital Issues, the
Reserve Bank of India or any other institution or department of the Government
of India or any political subdivision thereof is below its offer price. In
addition, Guardian International (or its Affiliates or Associates) shall be
entitled, without liability to any person, to decline to sell or otherwise
dispose of its shares if it is not satisfied that the proceeds of such sale or
disposition of the shares can be repatriated to the United States of America
or to a country of Western Europe selected by it.
6.2 If MRL (and/or its Affiliates or Associates) wishes to sell or otherwise
dispose of some or all of the shares of the company owned by it or allotted to
it (or owned by such Affiliates or Associates), MRL (on behalf of such
proposed seller) shall first offer the shares to Guardian International. The
procedure to be followed with respect to such offer and the subsequent sale or
other disposition shall be the same, mutates mutants, as the procedure
described in Section 61 of this Shareholder Agreement; provided, however, that
if Guardian International (or its Affiliates or Associates) is prohibited from
acquiring such shares for any reason attributable to the laws or policy of the
Government of India or any political subdivision thereof, then Guardian
International (or such person) shall be entitled to renounce its rights to
acquire the shares as aforesaid in favor of persons selected by it who are
residents of India and MRL (or such other disposing party) shall sell the
shares to such persons in accordance with the procedures set forth in this
Section 6 of this Shareholders Agreement.
75\. However, despite the foregoing restriction, it was specifically agreed
between the parties that the transfer of shares interse between Guardian and
on any of its affiliates or associates or between MRL and any of its
affiliates or associates was permissible if the transferee was not engaged in
a competing Page 1202 business with the joint venture company. There was also
no restriction on a transfer of shares by the Gujarat Alkalies and Chemicals
Ltd. to a company owned by it or to MRL. In this behalf, clause 6.5 provides
thus:
Clause 6.5 6.5 Nothing contained in this Section 6 shall restrict:
(i) the transfer of shares inter se between Guardian International and any of
its Affiliates or Associates, or between MRL and any of its Affiliates or
Associates; provided, however, that with respect to a transferee of MRL (or
any of its Affiliates or Associates) the transferee is not engaged in a
competing business with the company; and
(ii) the right of GACL to transfer all or a part of the equity shares of the
company owned by it to MRL.
The SHA dated 23rd January, 1990 contained a restriction on the parties to
indulge in other business for manufacture of float glass or fabrication of
products made from float glass in Clause 14 which has been reproduced earlier
in this judgment.
76\. Inasmuch as the SHA permits transfer of equity to an 'affiliate' or an
'associate', it would be useful to also set out the definition of these
expressions as agreed upon between the parties which was provided in clause
15.1 and reads thus:
15\. 'Affiliates' and 'Associates' 15.1 For purposes of this Shareholders
Agreement, the term 'Affiliates' shall mean any legal person (other than the
company) who, directly or indirectly, is controlled by controls, or is under
common control with, a party to this Shareholders Agreement; and the term
'Associate' shall mean a business partner, agent or adviser of either party to
this Shareholders Agreement or of any other company or person proposed as an
investor by that party and accepted in writing by the other party.
77\. The respondent has itself asserted rights based on the pre-emptive right
to purchase the shares in GGL by virtue of clause 6 of the share holders
agreement dated 23rd January, 1990. In this behalf, the respondent filed
O.M.P. No. 337/2006 entitled Guardian International Corporation v. Modi Rubber
Ltd., wherein para 21 it was inter alia stated thus:
21\. Petitioner is deeply concerned about the future of respondent and the
status of respondent's shareholding in GGL. A scheme of rehabilitation has
still not been formulated. The petitioner apprehends that the respondent's
shareholding in GGL may be sold under a scheme of rehabilitation to third
parties without the express consent of the petitioner and without giving a
pre- emptive right to purchase the said shares to the petitioner. The
shareholders agreement and the very purpose and spirit behind it also
contemplated that the identity of the joint venture (GGL) to be maintained and
third parties not be introduced. The very purpose of the joint venture was to
ensure that business may be carried on by like minded people and that should
any one shareholder seek to exit from the joint venture, they would make the
shares available Page 1203 to the other continuing members. This clear
intention was expressly stated in clause 6 of the Shareholders Agreement and
such intention came to be reflected in the Articles of Association of GGL and
in particular Article 3 which contemplated maintenance of the shareholding
pattern. While the said Article mandates such maintenance of the shareholding
pattern which would disentitle the respondent in transferring shares in GGL,
it is submitted, the clause in the Shareholders Agreement offering pre-emptive
rights reflects a clear intention of the shareholders, which would continue
even after the Shareholders Agreement has come to an end. Further this clause
is not restricted to the period of the Shareholders Agreement but forms an
independent and severable agreement amongst the shareholders. However, it
appears that the respondent cannot be depended upon to be bound by the
restrictions on the transfer of shares, which is compounded by the factum of
the respondent being a 'sick' company within the purview of BIFR.
Again in paras 23 and 24 of this petition, the respondent stated thus:
23\. Therefore, in the interest of justice and in aid of the Arbitration
Agreement in the Shareholders' Agreement, the petitioner is seeking to
restrain the respondent from taking any steps from transferring its shares in
GGL without the consent of the petitioner and without giving a pre-emptive
right to purchase the said shares to the petitioner.
24\. The petitioner therefore submits that it is absolutely just, necessary
and convenient that the respondent, its officers and directors are restrained
in any manner from transferring any of its shareholdings in GGL without the
consent of the petitioner and without giving a pre-emptive right to purchase
the said shares to the petitioner. The petitioner also craves leave that in
the event of change in the ultimate and beneficial ownership of the
respondent, they be permitted to seek other reliefs.
Finally, the following prayers have been asserted by the respondent:
(a) to restrain the respondent from transferring its shareholding in Gujarat
Guardian Limited without the prior consent of the petitioner and without
giving a pre-emptive right to purchase the said shares to the petitioner. (b)
pass such further or other orders as this Hon'ble Court may deem fit and
proper in the circumstance of the case.
78\. There is no dispute that clause 6 of the SHA did not translate into a
clause in the Articles of Association. Yet, the respondent is itself asserting
bindingness of the pre-emptive rights to purchase of shares as contained in
the SHA. The respondent has not challenged Clause 14 of the SHA on any ground
under the Contract Act also.
79\. The shareholders agreement between the parties in the instant case does
not cast an absolute restriction on the transfer of shares. The pre- emptive
right conferred on the parties has been relied upon by the respondent itself
in OMP No. 337/2006. Even such agreement relates only to the transfer of
shares between the petitioner and respondent and does not involve the other
shareholders. So far as Clause 14 is concerned, it binds only the parties to
the SHA, is unconcerned with and independent of the affairs of the joint
venture. Certainly, the prohibition Page 1204 contained in clause 14 of the
agreement is not rendered illegal or unenforceable by any provision of the
Companies Act or any clause of the Articles of Association or by virtue of the
principles laid down in any of the judicial pronouncements noticed
hereinabove. It is also not rendered void or not binding for the reason that
it is not incorporated in the Articles of Association of the joint venture.
Such a covenant between MRL and Guardian, the contracting parties is not
prohibited under any other statutory provisions as well and was entered for
the benefit of the joint venture. The issue raised in the present case was not
the issue raised before the Apex Court in the Rangaraj case (supra). In my
view, therefore clause 14 would bind the parties to the agreement even if the
clause was not contained in the Articles of Association of the joint venture.
The same therefore binds MRL and Guardian during the subsistence of the SHA.
Objections as to the maintainability of the petition
80\. It becomes necessary to deal with the two grounds raised on behalf of the
respondent with regard to the maintainability of the present petition. These
have been noticed as ground I and II in para 58 above. It has been urged at
great length that there is no challenge by the petitioner to the termination
of the SHA by the letter dated 21st July, 2006 before any forum and
consequently, the present proceedings are misconceived and wholly without
jurisdiction and not maintainable.
81\. In the present case, I find that the respondent has made a request for
arbitration dated 16th October, 2006. In its letter of request, the respondent
has urged that its termination of SHA is valid and has sought, a declaration
to be made to the effect that the termination is justified and legal. The
respondent has further sought a specific declaration that the petitioner is
not bound by the non-compete clause as contained in clause 14 of the SHA. It
is apparent that the respondent has itself raised an issue with regard to the
validity and legality of the termination effected by it by the letter dated
21st July, 2006.
82\. I find that the petitioner has filed the present petition based on the
averments that the purported termination of the SHA effected by the letter
dated 21st July, 2006 is contrary to the terms of the contract and is illegal
and wrongful. Thus, it is the petitioner's case that the termination was in
violation of clause 16 of the SHA and was not permissible.
The material averments in this behalf are contained in paras 3.9, 4, 6, 8-10,
14, 17 and 18 of the petition. Inter alia the petitioner has averred thus:
3.9 Further, the petitioner has, vide letter dated 21st August, 2006,
responded to respondent's letter dated 21st July, 2006. In the said letter the
petitioner has expressed surprise and extreme disappointment in receiving the
said termination letter from the respondent. The petitioner drew the attention
of the respondent to the clause 14 of the SHA and stated that there has been
no contractual breach of any of the provisions of the SHA by the petitioner
and that there was no provision in the SHA for termination thereof by either
party. Therefore, there was no valid Page 1205 basis for termination of the
SHA and as such its terms remain in full force and effect and continue to bind
the parties thereto.
xxx
8\. It is submitted that the purported termination of the SHA by the
Respondent is completely invalid. It is submitted that declaring the
Petitioner as a sick unit does not make it financially unsound. The Petitioner
has substantial assets and has continuously kept the Respondent informed that
the Petitioner is in the process of revival and should revive in the very near
future.
9\. It is submitted that the Petition filed by the Respondent before this
Hon'ble Court for enforcement of its rights under the SHA is self-
contradictory to the purported termination of the SHA and supports the
contention of the Petitioner that the SHA is still valid and continues to
operate.
10\. It is submitted, therefore, that the issues as to whether the SHA 'stands
frustrated' as alleged or whether Respondent and its affiliates/associates are
bound by the Clause 14 of the SHA and therefore is prohibited from making any
Application before the Government for permission to set up a wholly-owned
subsidiary would, as admitted by Respondent, ultimately have to be decided in
the arbitration as per the SHA.
xxx
17\. However, Respondent and Guardian has, in violation of the provisions of
the SHA, applied before the Government and the Government is presently
processing the said application for approval to permit setting up of a wholly-
owned subsidiary. Any such approval, apart from being contrary to Government
policy would amount to aiding a breach of the SHA. The Petitioner reserves its
right to take separate legal action seeking appropriate direction/order/writ
against the Government by invoking the extra ordinary jurisdiction vested in
this Hon'ble Court under Article 226 of the Constitution of India.' Therefore,
it cannot be held that the petitioner has accepted the factum and validity of
the termination.
83\. The objection based on the plea that the petitioner has not challenged
the termination can be tested from yet another angle. There are several
instances when a party is compelled to seek relief of injunction on the
averment that an action taken by a person or authority is contrary to law or
the agreement between them. The adjudication on the entitlement to the relief
necessarily requires an inquiry into the legality of the action of the
defendant. In such a case, a declaration that the action of the defendant is
illegal is inherent in the adjudication. It is well settled that such a
declaration does not require to be specifically prayed for. The courts have
held that the correct test is as to whether there is a legal necessity for the
plaintiff to get a declaration of his right before he can get an injunction.
(Ref: Harchand Singh v. Dalip Singh; AIR 1941 Mad 91 Sri Rajah Nayani v. Sri
Rajah Tadakamalla.) In Mahant Purshottam Dass v. Narain, while considering a
question as to the court fee payable on the Page 1206 plaint, the court held
that a prayer for declaration would be a surplusage if the plaintiff can get
the relief for injunction without praying for declaration, but declaration has
to be prayed where an obstacle has to be removed before the plaintiff can
claim the relief of injunction simplicitor.
84\. In this behalf, it would also be useful to advert to the pronouncement of
this Court reported in 1985 RLR 398, Time Properties v. DDA. It was held in
this case that even if a plaintiff had filed a suit simply for injunction,
however, there was a legal necessity for a declaration before grant of the
relief for injunction. Such suit would not be treated as a suit for
injunction. It is only if grant of the declaration is not necessary, the suit
would be purely a suit for injunction.
Undoubtedly, these judgments were rendered on issues relating to court fee
payable on the plaint as different court fee is payable on the two reliefs.
However, the principles laid down would guide this Court on adjudication of
the issue raised herein.
85\. Before this Court, the petitioner has sought a prohibitory relief against
the respondent praying that it ought be prohibited from taking action and
proceedings in the matter as if the agreement between the parties subsists.
The petitioner has prayed for this relief based on averment that the action of
the respondent was impermissible, incorrect and legally untenable.
86\. The respondent has admittedly sought a declaration to the effect that the
termination of the agreement by it was legal and valid before the arbitrators
who shall therefore decide the same.
87\. The petitioner has placed before this Court its response to the request
for arbitration made by the petitioner. In this reply, the petitioner has
again challenged the termination of the SHA as being wrongful and has made a
counter claim to this effect. In the present proceedings, the petitioner has
sought preservation of the status quo on the plea that the petitioner would
suffer irreparable loss and damage if the respondent is not prohibited from
committing breach of clause 14 of the agreement.
88\. It is trite that in the present proceedings, it is not open to the court
to adjudicate upon an issue which is the subject matter of the arbitration.
The present proceedings are concerned only with preservation of the property
and to prevent violation of claimed rights of parties so that no irreparable
loss and damage enures to the parties till the arbitration results in a
dispute redressal.
89\. In this background, therefore, it cannot be held that the petitioner has
not challenged the termination or be non-suited for the reason that it has not
made a prayer for declaration before this Court to the effect that the action
of the respondent was illegal.
90\. The second limb of the objection as to the maintainability of this is
based on the plea that the petitioner has not invoked the dispute redressal
mechanism by way of arbitration and for this reason as well, the present
petition at its instance, is misconceived.
91\. In order to appreciate the submission on behalf of the petitioner, it
becomes necessary to consider the concerned statutory provisions at this
stage. Page 1207 Section 9 of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996
empowers a court to pass interim orders at the instance of a party. This
statutory provision reads thus:
9\. Interim measures, etc. by court ' A party may, before or during arbitral
proceedings or at any time after the making of the arbitral award but before
it is enforced in accordance with Section 36, apply to a court:
(i) for the appointment of a guardian for a minor or a person of unsound mind
for the purposes of arbitral proceedings; or
(ii) for an interim measure of protection in respect of any of the following
matters, namely:
(a) the preservation, interim custody or sale of any goods which are the
subject-matter of the arbitration agreement;
(b) securing the amount in dispute in the arbitration;
(c) the detention, preservation or inspection of any property or thing which
is the subject-matter of the dispute in arbitration, or as to which any
question may arise therein and authorising for any of the aforesaid purposes
any person to enter upon any land or building in the possession of any party,
or authorising any samples to be taken or any observation to be made, or
experiment to be tried, which may be necessary or expedient for the purpose of
obtaining full information or evidence;
(d) interim injunction or the appointment of a receiver;
(e) such other interim measure of protection as may appear to the court to be
just and convenient, and the Court shall have the same power for making orders
as it has for the purpose of, and in relation to, any proceedings before it.
92\. An examination of the scheme of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act,
1996 shows that the legislature has drawn a distinction between a claimant and
a respondent. It is to be found that furtheremore, wheresoever the legislature
intended the statutory provision to be available or applicable to either of
them the expression 'party' is used. In this behalf, it would be useful to
advert to the provisions of Section 17 which confers powers on the Arbitral
Tribunal to make orders as interim measures and Section 18 of the statute
which provides that the 'parties' shall be treated with equality and each
'party' shall be given a full opportunity to present his case. Similarly,
Section 19 to 24 which deal with the procedural aspect of the conduct and
arbitration proceedings also refers to agreement by the 'parties'. Section 25
of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 refers to default of a 'party'
and Sub-section (a) and (b) of this provision provide for the consequences of
the default either by the 'claimant' which is dealt with in Sub-section (a)
while Sub-section (b) refers to the consequence of a default by the
'respondent'. Sub-section (c) refers to the failure of either party to appear
at an oral hearing or to produce documentary evidence.
Section 9 of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 permits a 'party'
applying to a court seeking interim measures for protection. It is thus
apparent Page 1208 from the spirit, intendment and purpose of the statute that
the legislature intended such statutory right to approach a court for interim
relief to be available to either party to the arbitration.
93\. In the instant case, the admitted position is that the respondent
approached this Court by way of O.M.P. No. 337/2006 which was filed on 24th
July, 2006 by the respondent under Section 9 of the Arbitration and
Conciliation Act, 1996 seeking interim relief in respect of the share holding
in GGL.
94\. Subsequently thereafter, the respondent herein has made a request for
arbitration dated 16th October, 2006 before the London Court of International
Arbitration (LCIA). This request for arbitration was made by the respondent
invoking clause 26 of the SHA which provided that any dispute or difference
arising under or in connection with the SHA or breach thereof shall be settled
by arbitration conducted in accordance with the rules of the LCIA by three
arbitrators in conformity with the rules. The petitioner has intimated the
name of its arbitrator in the communication dated 18th October, 2006 to the
LCIA. The respondent's request for arbitration contains elaborate submissions
by the respondent in relation to the contract containing the arbitration
agreement which reads as follows:
II.THE CONTRACT CONTAINING THE ARBITRATION AGREEMENT
7\. This dispute arises in connection with a Shareholders Agreement dated 23
January, 1990 between Guardian International and MRL (the 'Shareholders
Agreement), a copy of which appears as Exhibit 1 to this Request for
Arbitration.
8\. Clause 26 of the Shareholders Agreement contained an arbitration agreement
which provides as follows:
Any dispute or difference arising under or in connection with this
Shareholders Agreement, or any breach thereof, which cannot be settled by
friendly negotiation and agreement between the parties shall be finally
settled by arbitration conducted in accordance with the Rules of the London
Court of International Arbitration by three (3) arbitrators designated in
conformity with those Rules. MRL and GACL shall select one (1) arbitrator,
Guardian International shall select one (1) arbitrator, and the two
arbitrators so selected shall select the third arbitrator. Judgment upon the
award rendered may be entered in any court of competent jurisdiction.
9\. The dispute detailed below arises in connection with the Shareholders
Agreement, and is therefore within the scope of the arbitration agreement set
out above, establishing the jurisdiction of the LCIA.
III. THE NATURE AND CIRCUMSTANCES OF THE DISPUTE
35\. Notwithstanding the foregoing, MRL recently commenced injunction
proceedings in the Indian courts to prevent Guardian International from acting
upon any FIPB permission and from developing further float glass plants in
India. A copy of MRL's application for an injunction appears as Exhibit 11 to
this Request for Arbitration.
36\. Guardian International has commenced this arbitration seeking declaratory
relief that it is entitled to construct and operate other float glass plants
in Page 1209 India, together with an award of monetary damages. Guardian
International is entitled to such relief on one or more of the following
grounds:
a. the Shareholders Agreement has been frustrated and as a result the non-
competition provision of Clause 14 of the Shareholders Agreement no longer
applies; and/or b. alternatively, MRL has anticipatorily breached Clause 6 of
the Shareholders Agreement (and Article 3(b) of GGL's Articles of
Association), by declaring its intention to sell its GGL shares to a third
party and by taking steps to effect such sale, discharging the Shareholders
Agreement; and/or c. alternatively, the non-competition provisions of Clause
14 of the Shareholders Agreement are null and void and/or unenforceable
against Guardian International and/or have been frustrated or otherwise
discharged; and/or d. alternatively, MRL has unreasonably and/or wrongfully
withheld its consent to Guardian International's constructionof further flat
glass plants in India.
IV.THE GOVERNING LAW, PLACE, AND LANGUAGE OF THE ARBITRATION
37\. Clause 25 of the Shareholders Agreement provides that the law applicable
to the Shareholders Agreement is the laws of the Union of India.
38\. The Shareholders Agreement does not specify the place of the arbitration.
Accordingly, pursuant to Article 16.1 of the LCIA Rules, the place of the
arbitration shall be London.
39\. The Shareholders Agreement does not specify the language of the
arbitration. Accordingly, pursuant to Article 17.1 of the LCIA Rules, the
language of the arbitration shall be English.
VI. RELIEF REQUESTED
42\. As a consequence of the foregoing, Guardian International respectfully
requests the following relief:
a. a declaration that the Shareholders Agreement has been frustrated or has
been validly terminated or otherwise discharged; and /or b. alternatively, a
declaration that Clause 14 of the Shareholders Agreement is null and void
and/or unenforceable against Guardian International and/or has been frustrated
or otherwise discharged and/or may not be invoked by MRL to prevent Guardian
International from constructing and operating further float glass plants in
India; and/or c. an award of monetary damages in an amount to be quantified in
the course of these proceedings;
d. its costs incurred in this arbitration; and e. such additional or other
relief as may be just. Guardian International reserves the right to amend or
supplement or to make additional claims or revisions to its claims.
Page 1210
95\. By way of the present petition, the petitioner has invoked the
jurisdiction of this Court under Section 9 of the Arbitration and Conciliation
Act, 1996 and, inter alia, sought a prohibition against the respondent, its
directors or assigns from participating, encashing or engaging or being
interested in any other project for the manufacture of float glass or products
or for the sale by the import/export of the glass and its products from India.
These prayers have been made enforcing clause 14 of the SHA whereby the
parties had contracted to not engage in business which was similar to the
business of the joint venture. Such prayers have been made during the pendency
of the arbitration proceedings, albeit initiated at the instance of the
respondent wherein the issue as to the validity and legality of the
termination of the agreement dated 21st July, 2006 is yet to be decided.
96\. The present petitioner is a respondent in the arbitration proceedings
commenced by the present respondent. Therefore, it cannot be disputed that the
petitioner is a party to the arbitration proceedings. In the light of the
above discussion, it has to be held that the petitioner is entitled to
maintain the present petition under Section 9 of the Arbitration and
Conciliation Act, 1996. The SHA stands frustrated and terminated and therefore
the respondent stands discharged from obligation there under (Ground IV)
97\. The entire graveman of the respondents' case rests on its purported
termination of the SHA by the letter dated 21st July, 2006. Perusal of the
letter dated 21st July, 2006 shows that the termination of the agreement is
for the reason that there was fighting within the promoters of MRL; the
petitioner was before the BIFR, had been declared sick; there was a winding up
order against it, all of which lent insecurity to its partnership with the
respondent and consequently jeopardizing the future of GGL. Consequently, it
was stated that the SHA stood frustrated and did not bind the parties.
98\. Frustration of contract is not an abstract or nebulous concept. In India,
it is statutorily recognised in Section 56 of the Indian Contract Act which
relates to performance of a contract. Undoubtedly, frustration of contract is
a class of circumstances under which performance of a contract is excused or
dispensed with. Section 56 of the Indian Contract Act reads thus:
56\. An agreement to do an act impossible in itself is void. A contract to do
an act which after the contract is made, becomes impossible, or, by reason of
some event which the promisor could not prevent, unlawful, becomes void when
the act becomes impossible or unlawful. Where one person has promised to do
something which he knew, or, with reasonable diligence, might have known, and
which the promisedid not know to be impossible or unlawful, such promisor must
make compensation to such promisefor any loss which such promisesustains
through the non-performance of the promise.
In the agreement between the parties, admittedly they have agreed that
adjudication would be governed by laws in India.
99\. The doctrine of frustration was considered by the Apex Court in
Satyabrata Ghose v. Mugneeram Bangur and Co. 1954 SCR 310. The court had cited
with approval the principles laid down in an earlier judgment rendered in
Ganga Saran v. Ram Charan, wherein the Apex Court had clearly held that so far
as Page 1211 frustration of contract was concerned, the Indian Contract Act
deals with a particular subject and it is not permissible to import the
principles of English Law on this aspect dehors these statutory provisions. In
this behalf, the court held thus:
It seems necessary for us to emphasise that so far as the courts in this
country are concerned, they must look primarily to the law as embodied in
Sections 32 and 56 of the Indian Contract Act, 1872.
We hold, therefore, that the doctrine of frustration is really an aspect or
part of the law of discharge of contract by reason of supervening
impossibility or illegality of the act agreed to be done and hence comes
within the purview of Section 56 of the Indian Contract Act. It would be
incorrect to say that Section 56 of the Contract Act applies only to cases of
physical impossibility and that where this section is not applicable, recourse
can be had to the principles of English law on the subject of frustration. It
must be held also, that to the extent that the Indian Contract Act deals with
a particular subject, it is exhaustive upon the same and it is not permissible
to import the principles of English law dehors these statutory provisions. The
decisions of the English Courts possess only a persuasive value and may be
helpful in showing how the Courts in England have decided cases under
circumstances similar to those which have come before our courts.'
100\. It would also be useful to consider the principles laid down by the Apex
Court in Satyabrata Ghose v. Mugneeram Bangur and Co. (Supra) wherein the
court had observed thus:
9\. The first paragraph of the section lays down the law in the same way as in
England. It speaks of something which is impossible inherently or by its very
nature, and no one can obviously be directed to perform such an act. The
second paragraph enunciates the law relating to discharge of contract by
reason of supervening impossibility or illegality of the act agreed to be
done. The wording of this paragraph is quite general, and though the
illustrations attached to it are not at all happy, they cannot de rogate from
the general words used in the enactment. This much is clear that the word
'impossible' has not been used here in the sense of physical or literal
impossibility. The performance of an act may not be literally impossible but
it may be impracticable and useless from the point of view of the object and
purpose which the parties had in view; and if an untoward event or change of
circumstances totally upsets the very foundation upon which the parties rested
their bargain, it can very well be said that the promissor finds it impossible
to do the act which he promised to do.
10\. Although various theories have been propounded by the Judges and jurists
in England regarding the juridical basis of the doctrine of frustration, yet
the essential idea upon which the doctrine is based is that of impossibility
of performance of the contract; in fact impossibility and frustration are
often used as interchangeable expression. The changed circumstances, it is
said, make the performance of the contract impossible and the parties are
absolved from the further performance of it as they did not promise to perform
an impossibility. The parties shall be excused, as Lord Loreburn says Page
1212 If substantially the whole contract becomes impossible of performance or
in other words impracticable by some cause for which neither was responsible.'
In Joseph Constantine Steamship Line Limited v. Imperial Smelting Corporation
Ltd., Viscount Maugham observed that the 'doctrine of frustration is only a
special case of the discharge of contract by an impossibility of performance
arising after the contract was made. Lord Porter agreed with this view and
rested the doctrine on the same basis. The question was considered and
discussed by a Division Bench of the Nagpur High Court in Kesari Chand v.
Governor-General-in-Council and it was held that the doctrine of frustration
comes into play when a contract becomes impossible of performance, after it is
made, on account of circumstances beyond the control of the parties. The
doctrine is a special case of impossibility and as such comes under Section 56
of the Indian Contract Act.`
101\. In Alopi Prasad and Sons Ltd. v. UOI , the Apex Court had further
clarified that the courts have no power to absolve a party from the liability
to perform a contract merely because the performance becomes onerous and that
the expressed covenants in a contract cannot be ignored only on account of
uncontemplated turn of events after the contract. Also, in HV Rajah v. C.N.
Gopal and Ors. , the court had held that the doctrine of frustration can only
apply to executory contracts and not the transactions which have created a
demise in praesenti.
The principles noticed hereinabove were reiterated by the Apex Court in the
recent pronouncement reported at Ganga Retreat v. State of Rajasthan.
102\. Even in United Kingdom, it is well settled that the doctrine of
frustration of a contract cannot be lightly invoked to relieve the contracting
parties of the normal consequences of imprudent commercial bargains. (Ref:
1982 AC 724 between Pioneer Shipping Ltd. and Ors. and B.T.P. Tioxide Ltd.)
The essence of frustration is that it should not be due to an act or election
of the party seeking to rely on it and it must be some outside event or
extraneous change of situation. (Chitty on contracts, 29th Edition, Vol.I,
Page 23 Para 007).
103\. Furthermore, it is an admitted position that the petitioner continues to
be under its Board of Directors.
104\. It has not even been argued by the respondent that any of the terms of
the contract have become incapable of performance for any reason. It is also
not the respondent's case before this Court that the petitioner has committed
breach of any term of the SHA which could impact its bindingness or the
validity of the SHA between the parties. On the contrary, the petitioner has
discharged all its obligations there under.
105\. On this aspect it would also be useful to advert to the pronouncement
reported at , Naihati Jute Mills Ltd. v. Khayali Ram Jagannath. wherein the
court has held that it is not hardship Page 1213 or inconvenience or material
loss which brings the principle of frustration of contract as envisaged under
Section 56 of the Indian Contract Act into play. There must be a change in the
significance of the obligation that the thing undertaken would, if performed,
be a different thing from that which was contracted for. The court cited with
approval the principles laid down by the Apex Court in Satyabrata Ghose v.
Mugneeram Bangur and Co. 1954 SCR 310.
In the facts of the case before the Apex Court, it was held that performance
of the contract had not become impossible by reason of any force majeure, nor
by reason of any change in government policy which could not be foreseen by
the parties. No question also could arise of importing an implied term into
the contract. A contract is not frustrated merely because the circumstances in
which it was made are altered and the courts have no general powers to absolve
a party from the performance of his part of contract merely because its
performance had become onerous on account of an unforeseen turn of events.
In para 10 of the judgment, the Apex Court specifically held that in such a
case, the doctrine of discharge by frustration cannot be available, nor that
of an implied term that the existing state of affairs would continue at the
date of performance. The reason is that where there is an express term, the
court cannot find on construction of the contract an implied term inconsistent
with such express term.
It was therefore held that the contract between the parties was not discharged
under the doctrine of frustration and was still in existence. The facts in the
instant case would require an examination on these legal principles.
106\. So far as the tenure of the SHA was concerned, the parties had agreed to
remain bound to each other under this agreement till such period that each of
them continues to hold not less than 15% of the total issued equity shares of
the company. The stipulation in this behalf was contained in clause 16 of the
SHA which provides as follows:
16\. Term This Shareholders Agreement shall continue in force and effect for
so long as MRL (either with or without GACL and its nominees) and Guardian
International (or Affiliates or Associates of Guardian International) each
shall hold not less than fifteen per cent (15%) of the total issued equity
shares of the company.
It is noteworthy that there is was no other provision governing termination of
the agreement and certainly the grounds set out in the letter dated 21st July,
2006 were not envisaged or provided under the agreement.
107\. The admitted position is that both parties continued to hold more than
15% of the total issued shares in GGL when the letter dated 21st July, 2006
was issued and continued to do so when hearing in the present matter commenced
and concluded.
108\. So far as the performance of the joint venture GGL is concerned, it
appears that the demand of float glass has constantly expanded over the
period. The balance sheet and the profit and loss account for the year ending
31st March, 2006 has been placed before this Court which would reflect the
financial status of the company on the relevant dates.
Page 1214 This balance sheet of the joint venture company as on 31st March,
2006 reflects that it had reserves and surplus of Rs. 1,810,265,716/- as on
31st March, 2005. These reserves showed a sharp increase on the 31st March,
2006 and the position of the reserves and surplus had reached the figure of
Rs. 2,544,825,934/-. These figures reflect an increase of over Rs. 70 crores
within one year.
It is pointed out that this increase was for the reason that GGL recorded
average internal accruals of US $ 2 million which was equivalent to
approximately Rs. 90 crore per month net of taxes and that, for the last
month, the joint venture recorded internal accruals of over US $ 3 million
which was equivalent to approximately Rs. 135 crores.
109\. The principal ground for urging that the SHA stood frustrated is based
on the orders of winding up dated 12th March, 2004 passed by the learned
single Judge of the High Court of Judicature at Allahabad in Company Petition
No. 1/2002, copy whereof has been placed by the respondent on record, whereby
the petitioner was found unable to pay its debts and that it was found just
and equitable that the petitioner/MRL be wound up. The court had appointed an
official liquidator of the company with directions to take over the assets of
the company and submission of a report with the inventory of the assets of the
company.
110\. The respondent has further pointed out that MRL assailed this order of
the court before the Division Bench of the High Court of Judicature at
Allahabad by way of Special Appeal No. 420/2004 This appeal was allowed by the
Division Bench by its judgment dated 20th May, 2004 whereby the order dated
12th March, 2004 was quashed and it was directed that the winding up
proceedings before the learned Company Judge shall remain in abeyance till
disposal of the proceedings/appeal before the authorities under the Sick
Industrial Companies (Special Provisions) Act, 1985.
111\. This judgment of the Division Bench was assailed by the creditor company
by way of a Special Leave Petition (C) No. 19024/2004 before the Supreme
Court. The court granted leave to appeal by its order dated 24th February,
2006. There is no dispute that this matter is pending before the Supreme Court
as on date.
112\. It is also an undisputed position that on the 4th February, 2004, MRL
filed a reference under the Sick Industrial Companies (Special Provisions) Act
hereinafter (SICA) before the Board of Industrial and Financial Reconstruction
hereinafter (BIFR) seeking a declaration that its own net worth stood eroded.
MRL has urged that this was a 'technical sickness' faced by the MRL which in
no way has impacted the stability or growth of the joint venture GGL. The
submission is that it has also had no effect on its management and
performance.
113\. So far as this reference to the BIFR was concerned, it remained pending
on account of a vacancy of the Presiding Officer and was listed for the first
time on the 17th May, 2006. Upon consideration of the matter, the BIFR
declared that the petitioner as 'sick' under Section 16 of the Sick Industrial
Companies (Special Provisions) Act (SICA). An operating agency was appointed
to examine the affairs. The operating agency as well as the petitioner were
Page 1215 required to submit a scheme for revival for MRL, if feasible,
bearing in mind the provisions of Section 18 of SICA and the enclosed
guidelines while carrying out the directed exercise.
114\. So far as various proposals which were being considered before the BIFR
with regard to the management of MRL are concerned, the same are required to
be considered by this Court only to the extent that they concern the joint
venture company or the involvement of Guardian, the present respondent
therein.
115\. It has been pointed out by MRL that the financial institutions hold
44.25% equity in MRL. Before any scheme of revival could be submitted to BIFR,
these financial institutions put up a precondition of purchase of their
shareholding by the promoters. Consequently, an open bid sale for the 44.25%
stake of the financial institutions was held.
M/s ICICI Securities Ltd. addressed a letter dated 19th July, 2006 to Shri
V.K. Modi informing the acceptance of his offer to purchase the shareholding
of the financial institutions in MRL and required Mr. V.K. Modi to deposit
into an Escrow account of the Financial Institutions, a non-refundable amount
of 20% of the purchase consideration on 1,10,79,061 Equity Shares on or before
July 26, 2006. It was also stipulated that the transaction documents need to
be executed on or before August 18, 2006, failing which the Financial
Institutions shall be free to explore other possibilities in relation to the
said equity shares and debentures.
116\. MRL has informed that Mr. V.K. Modi has duly complied with the
requirement of deposit of this amount which was equivalent to 20% of the
purchase consideration on or before the 26th July, 2006. By acquisition of the
44.25% stake of financial institutions, the stake of Mr. V.K. Modi in MRL
increased to more than 64%.
117\. This purchase of 44.25% stake of the shareholding of the financial
institutions was approved by the BIFR on 9th October, 2006. The order of the
BIFR was sustained by the Appellate Authority Industrial and Financial
Reconstruction by its order dated 22nd November, 2006. It has been stated that
the financial institutions are selling their shares in MRL for Rs. 91 per
share against the face value of Rs. 10 per share. According to the petitioner,
this circumstance by itself displays positive prospects of the revival of
'MRL'.
118\. The petitioner contends that the present respondent Guardian is fully
aware of all these developments so far as the status of MRL is concerned.
119\. In this behalf, a letter dated 9th June, 2006 which was written by
Guardian to Unit Trust of India has been placed before this Court wherein
Guardian wrote that Guardian hoped that its agreement with Mr. Modi will be
approved by BIFR, to the extent BIFR approval is necessary, and consummated in
a timely manner. However, the BIFR may take several months or longer to
approve a scheme of rehabilitation for MRL and, further, any proposed scheme
could be opposed by the various constituent interests in MRL. If the complete
restructuring of MRL and its emergence from BIFR could be completed promptly
and that Guardian was prepared to act to protect GGL and was therefore writing
to remind UTI of Guardian's willingness to Page 1216 purchase all of MRL's GGL
shares at their recently appraised fair market value if a transaction with Mr.
Modi is not concluded promptly. Guardian is prepared to provide meaningful
liquidity to MRL by making payment in cash within days of reaching an
agreement with the financial institutions. Guardian also requested UTI that
its agreement with Mr. Modi would not preclude it from supporting a sale of
MRL's GGL shares to Guardian in the event that Mr. Modis proposed transaction
cannot be consummated within 90 days. Guardian also sought a confirmation that
the members of the MRL board of directors nominated by the financial
institutions will be at liberty to consider an offer from Guardian if the
proposed agreement with Mr. Modi is not signed by the end of the month or if
the BIFR restructuring process is riot completed by September 30, 2006.
120\. From the above, it is apparent that even till 9th June, 2006, Guardian
had no real evidence of malfunctioning in MRL. In any case, there was no
evidence whatsoever of the industrial sickness which was complained of before
the BIFR impacting in any manner the stability or the growth of the joint
venture company GGL.
121\. However, the admitted position is that in the meantime, the Board of
Industrial and Financial Reconstruction (BIFR) has appointed an operating
agency and was considering a scheme for revival of the petitioner company.
Certain interim measures with regard to the purchase of the shareholding of
the financial institutions by the directors of the company stood approved. The
petitioner has contended that in these circumstances, no liquidator has been
appointed and that the petitioner's company is being managed by its own
directors which is functioning even on date.
122\. The material fact is that no breach of the agreement by the petitioner
of any nature has been urged by the respondent or placed by the respondent
before this Court. On the contrary, it is an admitted position that GGL is a
healthy company. It is also not disputed by the respondent that MRL has
discharged all its contractual liabilities. In this factual and legal
background, prima facie it certainly cannot be contended that the fact that
the petitioner has faced winding up or its scheme of revival is pending before
the BIFR is by itself sufficient ground for holding that the sub stratum of
the SHA stood frustrated.
123\. Thus, it would appear that the present case is a case where the
petitioner has proposed technical sickness within the meaning of expression
under the Sick Industrial Companies (Special Provisions) Act, 1985 as opposed
to insolvency. Based on the performance of GGL despite such sickness of the
petitioner, the petitioner has urged that there is no ground, contractual or
statutory available to the respondent to terminate its agreement with the
petitioner.
124\. It has been pointed out by the parties that in the 1990s itself that is
the early years after the incorporation of the joint venture, GGL was also
referred to the BIFR. The respondent has contended that when equity infusions
were required, the petitioner remained a spectator and did not participate in
the infusions.
Page 1217 However, the fact remains that the respondent at that stage did not
contend that the SHA stood frustrated.
125\. The petitioner on the other hand, has submitted that the Board of
Directors of GGL is headed by Mr. V.K. Modi as Chairman and that it was Mr.
Modi who had approached the financial institutions for financial restructuring
of GGL's debt which included pre-payment of debts and waiver of interest
amongst other measures. It has been contended by the petitioner that it was
the effort of Mr. V.K. Modi as Chairman which resulted in GGL's net worth
improving and helped it to come out of the BIFR. The petitioner has also
claimed that it was Mr. V.K. Modi who had furnished his personal guarantee to
the financial institutions for securing the repayment of the dues while the
respondent did not undertake any such measure.
126\. It has also been pointed out that the respondent has been adequately
compensated for its contribution to GGL and according to the petitioner, its
interest therein now is minimal.
127\. It is not the respondent's case also that the petitioner has committed
breach of any term and condition of the SHA which could impact its bindingness
or the validity of the agreement between the parties. Furthermore, the
petitioner has discharged all its obligations under the contract with the
respondents and continues to be functioning.
128\. It is noteworthy that in every document relating to the affairs of the
joint venture GGL, the respondent has acknowledged the continued success of
the joint venture as also reiterated its stability and profitability in every
communication addressed by it.
129\. It is trite that in a private contract, a party is free to choose the
person as also the subject matter of the transaction according to its own free
will. No restriction or fetter could be imposed on either of the parties as to
the manner, mode and the nature of the agreement that they choose to enter
into. Such freedom is available in the realm of private law.
130\. In exercise of such right which is available to a private party, a party
may give to itself a right to terminate the agreement without cause. This has
been held in common law to be a valid power which the party may give to
themselves.
131\. The issue before this Court gets further narrowed inasmuch as the
contract between the parties contained a provision whereby the contract could
be ended. The petitioner has urged that the contract could be terminated only
strictly in compliance with this provision as contained in Clause 16 of the
agreement between the parties. According to the petitioner, the same could not
be terminated for any other reason.
In other words, the issue is as to whether, despite the parties having agreed
and restricted themselves to a certain set of contingencies which would enable
the other side to terminate the contract, is it legally permissible for the
other side to terminate the contract for any reason other than those
stipulated therein. (Re. Classic Motors Ltd. v. Maruti Udyog Ltd. ) Page 1218
132\. Section 39 of the Indian Contract Act provides that if a person indulges
in any fundamental breach of the contract and the other party does not
acquiesce to the breach, then the party not breaching is not bound under the
liabilities of the contract. This would, therefore, enable a party to
terminate a contract on the ground of substantial failure by the other party
which goes to the root of the contract.
133\. The respondent has asserted that the petitioner was no longer a
financially viable partner and that its future was uncertain. It has been
contended that the petitioner being before the BIFR has amounted to
frustration of the SHA and the respondent has resorted to termination the
same. Even assuming that such a submission was to be accepted, it is
noteworthy that despite this position, GGL is admittedly a prosperous
undertaking with substantial reserves.
134\. Examination of the course of the proceedings which are pending before
BIFR so far as the MRL's industrial and technical sickness is concerned. The
accepted position is that one of the factions constituting MRL had put forth a
proposal to purchase the share holding of the financial institutions in MRL
which proposal has been accepted by the BIFR and this faction has also
discharged the financial liability towards such purchase so far. As a result
the stake of the financial institutions is stated to have come down from over
50% in 1998 to around 44 % before the BIFR. Such a factor would only lend
towards stability of the organisation rather than infusing instability or
insecurity.
135\. In the factual matrix laid before this Court, considered in the light of
the legal principles noticed hereinabove. Primafacie, there is therefore force
in the submissions on behalf of the petitioner that merely because one of the
partners of the joint venture is before the BIFR, would not give immunity to
the respondent against its contractual obligations under the SHA.
136\. The respondent has also not set up a case that it required the
petitioner to contribute any finances in GGL which it failed to do so. There
is also no allegation of administrative mismanagement on the part of any
nominee director of MRL.
137\. Before this Court Mr. Mukul Rohtagi, learned senior counsel for the
respondent, has placed strong reliance on a proposal dated 22nd August, 2006
submitted in the proceedings before BIFR alleging on behalf of the petitioner
for revival of MRL.
138\. This has been termed as the evidence of ``anticipatory breach by MRL of
the Shareholders Agreement'` and has been pleaded as a strong ground for
contending frustration of this agreement.
139\. The petitioner on affidavit in its rejoinder has stated that such
proposal was not made by the petitioner company and that it has not received
the assent of the Board of Directors of MRL. It has further been submitted
that the petitioner shall act strictly in accordance with the terms of the SHA
and the Articles of Association of GGL even if it is compelled to transfer its
share holding therein.
Page 1219
140\. It has been pointed out that in para 5.4 of this proposal that it had
been clearly stated that the shares of the petitioner in GGL were only listed
in the assets of the petitioner and that the prioritization of sale of the
properties listed in clause 5.3 shall be at the discretion of MRL/Asset Sale
Committee of the MRL through appropriate board resolution may seek the same to
any person/persons as it may deem fit.
141\. The petitioner has categorically stated on affidavit that at no point of
time it has been its intention to dilute its shareholding in GGL by sale of
its shares to any third party including Guardian and that in fact, ``in the
unlikely event of the sale being necessitated it is the intention of the
petitioner that its shareholding would be acquired by its own affiliates or
its associates in terms of the share holders agreement and thus there is no
intent of the petitioner to dispose of its shareholding in GGL to any third
party as allotted by the respondent'`.
142\. Even assuming for the sake of argument that such a proposal was advanced
and was binding on the petitioner, a reading thereof would show that it had
set out two alternative proposals. The first postulated raising of a loan from
a bank whereby all assets of the company could be protected. The second
proposal put forth disposal of the assets of the company. The shareholding in
GGL has undoubtedly been set down as one of the assets. It has been urged that
this proposal also shows that the value of the assets of GGL were far more
than its liabilities and it was not necessary that the shareholding of the GGL
would require to be sold even in order effectuate such a proposal.
143\. The petitioner has pointed out that even this proposal closely examined
in its entirety does not evidence of any intention to violate the petitioner's
commitment under the SHA and that there was nothing in the face of the
proposal to show that the petitioner intended to dispose of its shares in GGL
to a third party. My attention has been drawn to Clause 6.5 of the SHA which
itself permits transfer of the shareholding of the parties to certain persons
including the affiliates of the parties.
144\. I find that this submission on behalf of the respondent really deserves
to be noticed for the sake of rejection. Certainly, such a proposal could not
have founded the basis of the letter of termination dated 21st July, 2006
primarily for the reason that the proposal had not emerged by then. There is
nothing contained in the proposal which would support that the submission that
it was on behalf of the petitioner company. Para 12 of this proposal states
that it was subject to the approval of the Board of MRL. There is no dispute
that the proposal was advanced by Mr. V.K. Modi who was a promoter- director
of MRL. There is nothing to evidence a resolution of the Board of Directors of
MRL to support that such proposal was made by the company.
145\. Therefore, in the light of the above discussion, certainly, the proposal
dated 22nd August, 2006 submitted to the Operating Agency and not even the
BIFR, cannot be either cause or justification for issuance of a prior letter
of termination dated 21st July, 2006. In my view, this proposal does not prima
facie evidence breach of any term of the SHA.
Page 1220
146\. Looked at from any angle an anticipatory breach as asserted by the
petitioner certainly cannot support termination of the agreement on the ground
of frustration. The agreement being determinable, hence cannot be specifically
enforced and consequently no injunction can issue
147\. The respondent has also opposed grant of an injunction on the objection
has been taken on behalf of the respondent that the agreement, at the face of
it, is determinable. Therefore, in the light of Section 14(1)(c) of the
Specific Relief Act, 1963, such a contract would not be enforceable and
consequently, in view of Section 41(e) of the Act a declaration or injunction
to prevent its breach cannot be legally granted.
148\. However, Section 42 of the Specific Relief Act, 1963 carves out an
exception to the above provision. This statutory provision provides that
notwithstanding the prohibition contained in Section 14(e), where a contract
comprises of an affirmative agreement to do certain acts, coupled with a
negative agreement, express or implied, not to do a certain act, the
circumstance that the court is unable to compel the specific performance of an
affirmative agreement shall not preclude it from granting an injunction to
perform the negative agreement.
149\. So far as contracts which are determinable are concerned, it has been
repeatedly held by the court that compensation would be the adequate remedy
for breach of the contract and that the court cannot direct enforcement of the
specific performance of its material terms.
150\. This is so because if the party against whom specific performance is
sought, is entitled to terminate the contract, an order of specific
performance will be refused as the defendant could render it nugatory by
exercising its power to terminate the contract (Ref: Law of Contract by G.S.
Treitel, 15th Edition at page 762 and Chitty on Contract 27 Edition Vol. I and
Pollock and Mulla's Contract and Specific Relief Act 11th Edition Vol.II page
1271). This principle would apply whether the contract is determinable under
its express terms or on account of the conduct of the parties seeking specific
performance.
151\. It now becomes necessary to examine the effect of a negative covenant in
an agreement and a prayer for injunction made before the court seeking
enforcement of such negative covenant.
152\. Inasmuch as the agreement between the parties in the instant case
contained a clause whereby term of the agreement was specified and also a
negative stipulation contained in Clause 14 of the agreement dated 23rd
January, 1990, Mr. Arun Jaitley, learned senior counsel for the petitioner has
relied on the exception provided in Section 42 of the Specific Relief Act to
contend that even if it was to be held that the contract is in express terms
determinable, still the petitioner would be entitled to an injunction
directing enforcement of the negative covenant against the respondent.
153\. In this behalf, it would be appropriate to advert to the principles laid
down by the Apex Court in Gujarat Bottling Company v. Coca Cola and Anr. In
this case, Coca Cola had granted Page 1221 franchise to the Gujarat Bottling
Company to manufacture, bottle, sell and distribute various beverages for
which trade marks were acquired by Coca Cola. Under this commercial agreement,
both parties undertook obligations for promoting the trade in such beverages
for their mutual benefits. The agreement contained a negative stipulation
restraining the Gujarat Bottling Company in dealing with beverages of any
other brand or trade mark/trade name during the subsistence of the agreement.
The shares of the Gujarat Bottling Company were transferred by it to another
company namely Pepsi, which was a trade rival of the Coca Cola company without
obtaining its consent in terms of the agreement. At the same time, the Gujarat
Bottling Company issued notice for terminating its agreement with Coca Cola.
On these facts, M/s Coca Cola company filed a suit and sought an interim
injunction against the Gujarat Bottling Company prohibiting it from
transferring shares of the Gujarat Bottling Company or using of the plants of
Gujarat Bottling Company for manufacturing, bottling, selling etc. of
beverages of any other person. The Gujarat Bottling Company had challenged the
negative stipulation which was contained in para 14 of its agreement with M/s
Coca Cola company on the ground that the same was in restraint of trade and
void in view of the provisions of Section 27 of the Indian Contract Act.
154\. It was observed by the Apex Court that what has to be examined by the
court is whether the negative stipulation restricting the right of the other
side did amount to a restraint of trade. So far as the negative stipulation in
the agreement between the Gujarat Bottling Company and M/s Coca Cola Company
was concerned, it was noticed by the Apex Court that such a condition
restricting the right of the franchisee to deal with competing goods is for
facilitating the distribution of the goods of the franchiser, it could not be
regarded as being in restraint of trade. It was further held that since the
negative stipulation was confined in its application to the period of
subsistence of the agreement and the restriction imposed therein was operative
only during the period 1993 when the agreement is subsisting, such stipulation
could not be held to be in restraint of trade so as to attract the bar of
Section 27 of the Contract Act. The court thereafter proceeded to consider as
to whether the plaintiff in the case in hand was entitled to the injunction
prayed for to compel enforcement of the negative agreement not to do certain
acts. It was held by the Apex Court that the court was empowered to so direct
in the light of Section 42 of the Specific Relief Act, 1963. Such power
however, would be exercised only if the plaintiff had failed to perform the
contract so far as is binding on it. It was further noticed that, the court,
however, was not bound to grant an injunction in every case and an injunction
to enforce a negative covenant would be refused if it would indirectly compel
the employee either to idleness or to serve the employer.
155\. Placing reliance on 1898 (1) CH 671 : (1895-99) All ER reports Ext. 1680
Ehrman v. Bartholomew and its earlier pronouncement reported in 1990 Supp. SCC
727 N.S. Golikari at page 389, the Apex Court emphasized that relief by way of
interlocutory injunction is granted to mitigate the risk of injustice to the
plaintiff during the period before the uncertainty relating to the alleged
violation could be resolved.
Page 1222 The object of the interlocutory injunction is to protect the
plaintiff against injury by violation of its right for which it could not be
adequately compensated by damages recoverable in the action if the uncertainty
was resolved in its favor at the trial. The court cautioned that the
requirement of such protection has, however, to be weighed against the
corresponding need of the defendant to be protected against the injury
resulting from his having been prevented from exercising his own legal right
for which he could not be adequately compensated. To do this, the court weighs
one need against other and arrived at a finding as to where the 'balance of
convenience' lies.
156\. In so assessing, the Apex Court noticed that Pepsi in taking over the
Gujarat Bottling Company took a calculated commercial risk knowing fully well
the effect of the negative covenant contained in its agreement. It was
observed that if Gujarat Bottling Company is not restrained from manufacturing
and selling Pepsi products for the stipulated period of one year, the goodwill
and market share which Coca Cola Co. had for its own products, would be
destroyed by a rival company which had captured the Gujarat Bottling Company
and that such damages would not be an adequate compensation for the injury
which would be irreparable.
157\. It was urged on behalf of Gujarat Bottling Company that its plants would
remain idle and the workmen would be unemployed. The court was of the view
that this submission was being made actually by Pepsi through the mouth of
Gujarat Bottling Company in order to require Coca Cola Company to part with
its trade secrets to its business rival by supplying its essence/syrup etc.
for which the Coca Cola owns trademark to the Gujarat Bottling Company which
was by then under the effective control of Pepsi.
158\. The court observed that Pepsi took a deliberate decision to take over
the Gujarat Bottling Company with the full knowledge of terms of its agreement
with Coca Cola and it did so with the intention of paralysing the operations
of the Coca Cola in the region and promoting its goods. Subsequently, it must
suffer the consequences of the failure of its effort and cannot possibly
oppose the interim protection to Coca Cola Company.
So far as the loss that may be caused to Gujarat Bottling Company as a result
of the grant of the interim injunction, the court was of the view that such
loss can be assessed and the Gujarat Bottling Company can be compensated by
award of damages which can be recovered from Coca Cola in view of the
undertaking which was required to be given under the concerned rules.
159\. The Apex Court re-emphasised the principle that the relief of injunction
was wholly equitable in nature and the party invoking the jurisdiction of the
court has to show that he himself was not at fault and that he himself was not
responsible for bringing about the state of things complained of and that he
was not unfair or inequitable in his dealings with the party against whom he
was seeking relief. The plaintiff's conduct should therefore be fair and
honest.
160\. Observing that the Gujarat Bottling Company had not acted in conformity
with the terms of the agreement, it was held that this company was prima facie
responsible for the breach of the agreement and that no consent was also taken
by Coca Cola before the shares were transferred. Consequently, it Page 1223
was held that though Coca Cola had a right to terminate the agreement but it
did not do so. On the contrary, it was done by Gujarat Bottling Company.
Therefore, the Gujarat Bottling Company, having itself acted in violation of
the terms of the agreement and having breached the contract, could not claim
vacation of the interim injunction. Hence, it was primarily responsible for
having brought about the state of things complained of.
161\. It would be useful to refer to the pronouncement of this Court reported
at Welman Hindustan Ltd. v. NCR Corporation. In this case, the court was
required to consider a letter of termination issued by a foreign partner in a
joint venture company wherein a contention has been raised by the defendants
that the agreement was not complete because further agreements had been
required to be executed. The court was of the view that on prima facie ground,
the plaintiff had a good case inasmuch as they were able to show that the
parties have acted upon the terms of the letter of intent dated 10th June,
1986 for a long period of time and that the plaintiff had expended
considerable sums of money relying on such terms as stated in the letter. In
this view of the matter, it was held that balance of convenience was also in
favor of the plaintiff and against the defendant; that in case it inducted a
third party as their joint venture partner or associate for manufacturing,
marketing and servicing of their products, the plaintiff was bound to suffer
irreparable loss and injury. The plaintiff in this case had expended huge sums
of money in acquiring land based on the mutual agreement between the parties
for the joint venture; recruited new staff for the joint venture and given
training at huge expenses. The government approval had also been sought for
the joint venture.
In this background, this Court upheld the order of the lower courts
restraining the defendants from urging any agreement with any other party in
India for joint venture disturbing till the disposal of the suit.
162\. My attention has been drawn to the Division Bench pronouncement of this
Court rendered on 23rd October, 1998 in FAOS 251/1998 Goyal MG Gases Limited
and Anr. v. Messer Griestrein Gmbh and Anr. In this case the appellant
(referred to as GMG for short) had entered into a share purchase and
cooperation agreement dated 12th May, 1995 with Messer Grishien Gmbh(referred
to as Messer for short). This agreement had resulted in a joint venture of the
parties. A dispute had arisen between these parties in connection with
acquiring the control and shares of another industrial gas company in India
namely the Bombay Oxygen Corporation Limited (referred as BOCL for short) as
to whether the control of BOCL should be with Messer or with GMG or otherwise.
The appellant had sought an injunction against such acquisition by Messer on
the ground that the same was contrary to the share purchase agreement dated
12th May, 1995 and two subsequent agreements dated 8th November, 1997 and 3rd
May, 1998 whereby it was agreed that the management and control of the BOCL
shall rest with Goyals or GMG. The contention was that if Messer acquired
control of BOCL, it would become a competitor of GMG and that as a consequence
Goyals would have no other option but to ultimately sell their interests in
GMG to Messer. Thus Page 1224 the plea of balance of convenience was set up on
the ground that the very existence of GMG/Goyals was at stake and the proposed
acquisition of BOCL was contrary to the agreement between the parties.
Reliance was placed on clause 9 in the agreement dated 12th May, 1995 to urge
that this was a non-compete clause which prohibited Messer from entering into
any activity of competition with regard to gas business and conferred a right
of first refusal on the business option to GGL.
163\. The respondent Messer had opposed the grant of injunction on the ground
that the promoters of BOCL had refused to sell its shares to M/s Goyal and as
a result the contract between the parties had been rendered impossible to
perform. It was urged that clause 9 was not in the nature of a negative
covenant. Furthermore a plea of balance of convenience in its favor and
irreparable injury resulting to it was pleaded on the ground that a number of
steps had already been taken including obtaining permission from the Foreign
Investment Promotion Board for acquisition of the shares and if the restraint
order was issued, the effect would be that the entire agreement between BOCL
and Messer would fall through and this would amount to interference with the
rights of Messer to carry on trade. It was also urged that as a consequence of
the agreement between BOCL and Messer falling through the shares could be
acquired by third party which would jeopardise business interest of both
parties whereas if the agreement was permitted to go through, there was
possibility of even the petitioner benefitting between the same.
164\. The matter was considered by the Division Bench which was of the view
that it was not permissible to Messer to go ahead to acquire shares of BOCL
when admittedly it would result in breach of the agreement with Goyals whereby
the controlling interest of BOCL had to be transferred to the joint venture
GMG. The court noticed that Messer could not take advantage of its own action
which may be contrary to the agreement with GMG and then oppose the injunction
on the ground that balance of convenience lay in its favor as it would expose
Messer to breach of the agreement which it had entered into with the third
party. It was held that there was substance in the apprehension of GMG that if
Messer took over BOCL, it would become a competitor of GMG and that as GMG has
on its board of directors, nominee directors of Messer; thereby the secret
information of GMG would be passed of through these directors to BOCL. The
court also noticed that Messer was a multinational corporation and customers
of GMG may prefer to contract with the company where Messer has a controlling
interest and not with GMG which only carries the name and technology of Messer
in view of the agreement dated 12th May, 1995 and 30th November, 1995. As a
consequence thereof, it was held by the court, Goyals would have no option but
to have to sell its shareholding in MGM to Messer resulting in its ruination.
In this behalf, the court observed thus:
In substance the argument is that in this manner a big fish will altogether
eat a small fish in the corporate world despite the agreement referred to
above. It deserves to be emphasized that the Messer had repeatedly agreed for
acquisition of BOCL and jointly and in concert with GMG and not in the manner
sought to be done when BOCL cannot be taken up as agreed between the parties'.
Page 1225 The court further observed that if despite the several agreements
between the parties, 'Messer will go ahead to acquire the shareholding of BOCL
not jointly and in concert with GMG but to its derogation and take some steps
for the acquisition thereof, it cannot turn around and say that balance of
convenience and equities are in its favor. While considering the balance of
convenience and equities, the conduct of a party to litigation is of paramount
importance. The conduct of Messer was not above board. They did not conduct
themselves in a business like manner. They are attempting to give a go by to
their agreements with GMG.
The court held that a negative covenant was implied in clause 9 and that it,
in any case, contained a right of first refusal. Consequently finding that the
appellant had established a prima facie case and that balance of convenience
were also in its favor, it was also held that the appellant would suffer
irreparable loss and injury if the injunction prayed for was not granted. The
appeals were consequently allowed and Messer was restrained from taking any
steps to acquire the shares of BOCL pursuant to its agreement till decision of
the arbitration and proceedings.
165\. The principles laid down by the Division Bench would bind this Court.
The judgment has been rendered in facts which are similar to the facts which
have arisen for consideration before this Court.
166\. The petitioner has placed reliance on a pronouncement of a learned
Single Judge of this Court dated 19th December, 2002 rendered in IA Nos. 4425
and 5527/2002 in Suit No. 915/2002 entitled The Chancellor Masters and
Scholars of the University of Oxford, Trading as Oxford University Press v.
Orient Longman Pvt. Ltd. and Ors. in support of the contention that the
petitioners would be entitled to an injunction in the light of the agreement
contain between the parties. This judgment was confirmed by the Division Bench
in its judgment dated 5th February, 2003 rendered in FA(OS) No. 53/2002 Orient
Longman Pvt. Ltd. and Ors. v. The Chancellor of University of Oxford and Ors.
which was upheld by the Supreme Court of India by its order dated 6th May,
2003 rendered in SLP (Civil) No. 7775/2003 entitled Orient Longman Pvt. Ltd.
and Chancellor, M and S, University of Oxford whereby the special leave
petition assailing the judgment of this Court was dismissed as withdrawn.
167\. Based on the pronouncement of this Court rendered in Old World
Hospitality Pvt. Ltd. v. India Habitat Centre it has been urged that the
courts should prefer such construction of a contract as could favor
performance of the contract and not encourage avoidance contractual
obligations. On such construction, it is urged that injunctions would be
granted in favor of a party seeking enforcement of contractual obligations. My
attention was drawn observations in this judgment which reads thus:
116\. In Chave v. Breamer 1976 Q.B. 76, Rosekill Learned Judges said 'In
principle contracts are made to be performed and not to be avoided according
to whims of the market fluctuations where there is a free choice between the
two possible constructions of a contract, I think the Page 1226 Court should
tend to prefer the construction which will infer performance and not encourage
avoidance of contractual obligations.
168\. On the other hand, Mr. Mukul Rohtagi, learned senior counsel for the
respondent has placed reliance on several judicial pronouncements in support
of his contention that the petitioner herein was not entitled to the relief
sought. Reliance was placed on the pronouncement of the Supreme Court in
Percept D'mark (India) Pvt. Ltd. v. Zaheer Khan and Anr. . In this case, the
Supreme Court was concerned with post contractual covenants which were held to
be restrictive of trade and violative of Section 27 of the Contract Act. As
noticed in para 54, the contract between the parties had come to an end by
efflux of time. However I find that in this case also the Supreme Court re-
affirmed the legal position that there are instances where the negative
covenant in the contract is valid and can be enforced. In this behalf, the
court had observed thus:
61\. Clause 31(b) was also to operate only during the term i.e. from the
conclusion of the first negotiation period under clause 31(a) on 29-7- 2003
till 29-10-2003. This Respondent 1 has scrupulously complied with. So long as
clause 31(b) is read as being operative during the term of the agreement i.e.
during the period from 29-7-2003 till 29-10-2003, it may be valid and
enforceable. However, the moment it is sought to be enforced beyond the term
and expiry of the agreement, it becomes prima facie void, as rightly held by
the Division Bench.
169\. In the present case, the respondent has not laid a challenge to any of
the terms of the SHA. Clause 14 has also not been assailed on grounds of its
being barred by virtue of Section 27 of the Contract Act. For this reason,
this pronouncement has no bearing on the present matter.
170\. It has been strenuously urged that the contract in the instant case was
terminable and consequently the award of damages was adequate remedy. It was
urged that in this view of the matter injunction would not lie in support of
this submission. Mr. Rohtagi, learned senior counsel for the respondent placed
strong reliance on the judicial pronouncements reported at Rajasthan Breweries
v. Stroh Brewery Company; Indian Oil Corporation v. Amritsar Gas;
Manu/DE/1524/2001 D.R. Sondhi v. Hella Hueck; Pravu Dayal v. Ram Kumar; Star
India v. L.S. Nayak; (2006) 132 Company Cases 198(Delhi) Usha Drager v. Drager
Work Braaktiengesellschaft; AIR 1984 Delhi 119 Modern Food Industries v. Sri
Krishna Bottlings; Manu/8/DE/8474 Turnaround Limited v. Jet Airways India
Limited and Ors.
Page 1227
171\. I have carefully perused the judgments relied upon by the respondents. I
find that in Rajasthan Breweries Limited (supra) it was specifically noticed
by the court that there was no negative covenant in the contract and that
termination of the agreement was in fact effected in terms of clause 8 of the
contract between the parties. However in paras 14 and 15 of the report, the
court specifically noticed that the principles of compensation of damages
would have no relevance when a negative covenant is sought to be enforced in
the light of Section 42 of the Specific Relief Act. It would be useful to
consider the observations of this Court in extenso which reads thus:
14\. The effect of breach of a contract by a party seeking to specifically
enforce the contract under the Indian law is enshrined in Section 16(c) read
with Section 41(e) of the Specific Relief Act, 1963. Clause (e) of Section 41
of the Specific Relief Act provides that injunction cannot be granted to
prevent the breach of contract, the performance of which would not be
specifically enforced. Clause (c) of Section 41 enumerates the nature of
contracts, which could not be specifically enforced. Clause (c) to Sub-section
(1) of Section 14 says that a contract which is in its nature determinable
cannot be specifically enforced. Learned Single Judge thus was justified in
saying that if it is found that a contract which by its very nature is
determinable, the same not only cannot be enforced but in respect of such a
contract no injunction could also be granted and this is mandate of law. This,
however, is subject to an exception, as provided in Section 42 that where a
contract comprises an affirmative agreement to do a certain act, coupled with
a negative agreement, express or implied, not to do a certain act, the
circumstances that the Court is unable to compel specific performance of the
affirmative agreement shall not preclude it from granting an injunction to
perform the negative agreement.
15\. Learned Single Judge considered various covenants of the agreement and
referred to clause 8 of the Technical Assistance Agreement regarding
termination saying that similar provision is incorporated in the Technical
Knowhow agreement and both agreements provide that the same could be
terminated even by the appellant at its option at the occurrence of any of the
events, which are specifically mentioned in the agreement. Learned Single
Judge extracted clauses relating to Technical Assistance Agreement under which
the respondent could terminate the contract and as the termination had to take
place at the instance of the respondent, therefore, events under which the
appellant could terminate are not extracted. We were taken through various
clauses and it is not disputed and has also rightly been pointed out by
learned Single Judge that there is no negative covenant in the agreements in
question. As there was no negative covenant, it was observed by learned Single
Judge that agreements could be terminated by the respondent on the happening
of any of the events mentioned in Clause 8 of the Technical Assistance
Agreement and under similar corresponding clause in Technical Knowhow
Agreement. Accordingly, learned Single Judge held that since agreement was
determinable at Page 1228 the behest of respondent, therefore, the same was
determinable in nature and is revocable at the option of both the parties at
the happening of any of the events mentioned therein.
172\. It would also be appropriate to consider the observations of the
Division Bench in para 16 of this pronouncement wherein the court interpreted
the meaning of the expression determinable used in clause ``c'` to Sub-section
2 to Sub-section 14. In this behalf, the court had observed thus:
16\. Learned Counsel for the appellant contended that the word 'determinable'
used in Clause (c) to sub-Section (1) of Section 14 means that which can be
put an end to. Determination is putting of a thing to an end. The clause
enacts that a contract cannot be specifically enforced if it is, in its
nature, determinable not by the parties but only by the defendant. Although
clause does not add the word 'by the parties or by the defendant' yet that is
the sense in which it ought to be understood. Therefore, all revocable deeds
and voidable contracts may fall within 'determinable' contracts and the
principle on which specific performance of such an agreement would not be
granted is that the Court will not go through the idle ceremony of ordering
the execution of a deed or instrument, which is revocable at the will of the
executant. Specific performance cannot be granted of a terminable contract.
173\. The court had also negated the submissions on behalf of the appellant
that when a contract was determinable by the party, the court could not treat
it as an enforceable contract in the light of clause (c) of Sub-section 1 of
Section 14.
174\. So far as the pronouncement of this Court in D.R. Sondhi and Ors. v.
Hella K.G. Hueck and Co. is concerned, the court held that under Section 9 of
the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, an interim order could be passed in
accordance with the statutory provisions which would include the provisions of
the Specific Relief Act for the purposes of preservation, interim custody or
sale of goods. In this case it was held that the parties were acting pursuant
to a share holders agreement dated 18th June, 1999 whereby the respondents had
been permitted to acquire 51% stake in the company and the petitioners had
already entered into a non-competing agreement with the respondent No. 1. The
petitioners were not paid any consideration for allowing the respondents to
take over the majority stakes and control and the management of the company.
The court had arrived at a conclusion that the respondents had failed to
honour their commitment and also had fabricated charges and issued a letter
dated 3rd September, 2001 seeking to cancel/terminate the shareholders
agreement between them.
175\. In this case, it had been urged on behalf of the petitioner that only
those agreements could be treated as terminable which are voidable. This
submission was rejected and the law on this aspect was succinctly laid down.
The court held that it is not only voidable contracts but even where the
contracts provide that it is terminable on a particular event, the provisions
of Section 14(1)(c) read with Section 41(e) of the Specific Relief Act would
apply and as such injunction will not be granted.
Page 1229 The court noticed the statutory provisions of the Specific Relief
Act and held that a contract which is in its nature determinable cannot be
specifically enforced and consequently, that injunctions are not to be granted
on the breach of the contract, non-performance of which could not be
specifically enforced. Clause 13.4 of the agreement between the parties in
this case stipulated that if the one party itself is in material breach of any
of its obligations which it fails to remedy within 60 days of the receipt of
the written notice or in two other contingencies, the agreement can be
terminated. It was observed that such a notice had been issued to the
plaintiff and the shareholders agreement terminated thereafter. In these facts
injunction was refused. However, having closely considered this judgment, I
find that in this pronouncement the court was not called upon to consider the
impact of the negative covenant and grant of an injunction to ensure its
compliance.
176\. In Pravu Dayal Agarwal v. Ram Kumar, the court was concerned with a suit
for specific performance of a contract whereby the parties had agreed that
only Pravu Dayal as a benamidar would submit tenders for the settlement of the
plot in question and such offer would be deemed to have been made on behalf of
all three. The parties as partners were all to contribute their share of the
capital within one month from the execution of the patta to be obtained from
the Government. It was stated that despite intimation to the other parties
they failed to pay their shares which consequently led to Pravu Dayal to
intimating them that the partnership stood abandoned. This was denied by the
other parties who filed the suit against Pravu Dayal seeking the relief of
specific performance of the agreement. The court held that in view of the
terms of the agreement, the partnership if entered into, would be a
partnership at will and even if such a contract were to be specifically
enforced, it could be terminated immediately thereafter. Consequently under
clause (d) of Section 21 of the Specific Relief Act, such a contract which is
in its nature revocable, cannot be specifically enforced and that damages in
specific performance or injunction would be an adequate remedy. I find that in
this case also the court was not concerned with enforcement of any negative
covenant which is being considered in the present case.
177\. Again the judicial pronouncement of the High Court of Bombay rendered in
Star India Pvt. Ltd. v. Lakshmi Rajsita Ram Nagar and Anr. Notice of Motion
No. 2933/2002 in Suit No. 3452/2002 reported at does not further the case of
the respondent before this Court in any further inasmuch as this case related
to a contract of service and the court held that the plaintiff had failed to
establish irreparable injury if the injunction prohibiting the employee from
joining any other business was not granted. It was held that by granting
injunction in favor of the plaintiff to enforce the negative covenant as
contained in clause 12 of the agreement between the parties, the court would
been forcing a contract in respect of personal service after the employee had
tendered his resignation from service. The court was Page 1230 of the view
that grant of injunction would cause greater harm and injury to the defendant
than the benefit which would accrue to the plaintiff and for this reason the
injunction was refused.
178\. The respondents have also relied on the pronouncement of this Court in
Sumer Arora v. Domino's Pizza India Limited. I find that in this case the
court had arrived at a conclusion that the termination notice was based on
grounds contemplated under clause 17 of the agreement and the only issue which
was raised before the court was with regard to the sufficiency of the notice
period. The court returned a finding that the termination was in terms of the
contract and in these circumstances the injunction had been refused.
179\. In the judgment reported at (2006) 132 Company Cases 198 (Delhi) Usha
Drager P. Ltd. v. Draegerwerk Aktiengesellschaft, the petitioner has sought an
interim injunction basing its claim on a non-compete clause contained in
clause 6 of the joint venture agreement.
In this case, the court held that the relief by way of interlocutory
injunction was granted to mitigate the risk of injustice to the plaintiff
during the period before the uncertainty of the respective claims is resolved.
Such injunction is to be granted only in cases where damages would not be
adequate compensation for the injury which would result. Injunction was
refused for the reason that the court for several reasons which have been
noticed in the judgment held that the plaintiff can be compensated in terms of
money and that plaintiff No. 1 would be held entitled to commission on the
sales effected by the defendant. In this case, the plaintiff had even
quantified its claim at 20% commission on sales made by the defendant or by
its group/subsidiary directly or indirectly in India. It was in these
circumstances held by the court that instead of an interim injunction, an
interim protection in respect of securing 10% of the commission on the sales
of the products which were covered by the joint venture agreement between the
parties should be passed. The present case is distinguishable on facts which
are before the court in Usha Drager P. Ltd. This Court is not concerned with
mere distribution of products but the very existence of the joint venture for
its entire manufacturing business is at stake.
Furthermore, the respondent in the present case has itself sought adjudication
of its action in terminating the agreement. The question is whether damage
which may result to the joint venture and the petitioner is quantifiable in
monetary terms so as to disentitle the petitioner to the interim protection.
180\. In AIR 1984 Delhi 119 Modern Food Industries India Ltd. v. Shri Krishna
Bottlers (P) Ltd., the petitioner had filed a petition under Section 20 of the
Arbitration Act, 1940 seeking reference of the dispute between the parties to
arbitration. The petitioner also filed an interim application praying for
injunction against the respondent seeking enforcement of the negative
covenants contained in a franchise agreement with the respondent. Under the
agreement between the parties, the plaintiff was to sell concentrate to Page
1231 defendant to manufacture and bottle the aerated water drink and
distribute it in Hyderabad. The defendant was prohibited from manufacturing or
selling any product akin to that of the plaintiff in Hyderabad without its
written permission. Alleging that the defendant had failed to perform his
contract and had entered into an agreement with another company to bottle and
market their aerated drink, the plaintiff filed an application seeking a
restraint of the defendant from manufacturing or marketing or in any other
manner dealing with the aerated drink of the third party. In this case, the
court considered the facts of the case and arrived at a conclusion that the
petitioner had made alternative arrangements with some other party to bottle
and market their products in the State of Andhra Pradesh and as a result, the
product of the petitioner was available in the cities in respect of which it
had covenanted with the respondent. Furthermore, the defendant had already
started manufacturing and marketing the product of the third party after
stopping production of its own product as a result of which the court arrived
at a conclusion that it was the defendant who would suffer irreparable loss
and damage if the injunction was granted. It was in these facts that
injunction was refused. The court had rejected the prayer for injunction
holding that injunction could be granted only in exceptional cases.
181\. The respondent has also placed reliance on the judgment reported at
Manu/DE/8741/2006 Turnaround Logistics (P) Ltd. v. Jet Airways (India) Ltd.
and Ors. This case is also distinguishable on facts inasmuch as the court held
that from the averments made in the plaint, the contract whereby the plaintiff
was appointed an agent could not be inferred. Furthermore, this case did not
postulate any negative covenants, and the plaintiff had only challenged the
termination by the defendant on several grounds. Consequently, the court held
that the contract being determinable, provisions of Section 14(1)(c) and
Section 41(e) of the Specific Relief Act would preclude the grant of an
injunction. For these reasons, this pronouncement has no application to the
instant case. 182. I, therefore, find that there is no legal impediment to
grant of an injunction so as to enforce a negative covenant contained in an
agreement which may be determinable. Of course, such relief cannot be granted
merely on the asking of a petitioner who is required to show more as is
discussed hereinafter. Impact of approval by the Foreign Investment Promotion
Board (FIPB) to the proposal of the respondent
183\. An approval of the FIBP is required by virtue of press note 1 (2005
series) which was issued by the Government of India requiring approval of the
proposal by a multinational corporation to set up a wholly owned subsidiary in
India if it was a party in existing joint venture holding more than three per
cent equity.
184\. Mr. Mukul Rohtagi, learned senior counsel for the respondent, has
pointed out that the prayers made in the present petition are all based on
implementation of only the non-compete clause contained in Clause 14 of the
SHA without any challenge to the termination of the agreement effected by the
respondent. It has been pointed out that the respondent, bearing in view the
market position, had no option but to proceed with its proposal of Page 1232
setting up a wholly owned subsidiary without the partnership of the
petitioner. Towards this end, the respondent, after requesting the petitioner
for its consent, submitted an application dated 22nd July, 2006 to the FIPB.
This proposal has been urged by the petitioner to be in blatant violation of
Clause 14 of the shareholders' agreement.
185\. There is no dispute that the petitioner did contest this petition before
the FIPB and FIPB gave hearing to the petition in the course of its
consideration.
186\. It has been vehemently urged that Guardian proposes to infuse
approximately US $ 60 millions in the subsidiary over the next two years which
equity infusion shall be augmented by expected export earning. It has also
been urged that the proposed subsidiary would create more than 575 skilled and
unskilled jobs. Indirect jobs were expected to be created for approximately
2,000 persons and consequently, if the proposal was implemented, Guardian
would significantly contribute to the generation of employment in India. On
these submissions, it has been urged that the proposal of the Guardian is not
only in the interest of the respondent but in the larger public interest
having regard to the infusion of foreign exchange as well as increase in
availability of employment opportunities.
The respondent submits that its proposal would result in its bringing in the
most advanced technology which was available with the respondent into this
country and consequently setting up the subsidiary was in public interest.
187\. The respondent had also contended that the onus to provide requisite
justification as also proof to the satisfaction of the Government that the new
proposal would or would not in any way jeopardise the interest of the existing
joint venture or technology/trade mark approval or other stock holders would
lie equally on the Foreign investor/technology supplier and the Indian
partner.
Press Note 1 (2005 series) states that a new proposal would be allowed where
the existing venture/Corporation is defunct or sick and according to the
respondent, this should be interpreted to include a situation where the Indian
partner is sick or defunct.
188\. The respondent was required to give details of the previous/existing
joint venture in the same/allied fields, if any, and if so, the justification
for the proposed venture. The respondent in para 9 (a) A has clearly stated
that 'the existing joint venture, GGL, is in the same field as the new
proposed wholly owned subsidiary'.
Justification has been given as to why the proposed venture shall not impact
the existing joint venture and four reasons have been advanced by the
respondent for the same which read thus:
(I) The MRL is in a state of internal disarray.
(II) Proposal to bring in latest and improved technology.
(III) Increasing demand for glass (IV) Proposal not to prejudice the interest
of existing joint venture.
Page 1233
189\. The petitioner, on the other hand, has strongly contested the
respondent's claim. It has been pointed out that in the application which was
submitted by the respondent to the FIPB, it had indicated that its solution to
resolve MRL's internal problems was its offer to purchase GGL's shares held by
MRL at a price established in an independent valuation and that it was on
account of refusal by the petitioner to do so, that the respondent had
terminated the shareholders agreement. It was also urged that the respondent
has misrepresented the position that the petitioner had been declared sick in
its petition.
190\. Before this Court, it has been urged on behalf of the petitioner that
Article 2(iii) of Press Note 1 (2005 series) stipulates the enforcement of a
non-compete clause between the joint venture partners and that the respondent
had not disclosed the factum of the non-compete/non-conflicting clause
included in the shareholders agreement.
191\. Perusal of the minutes of the meeting dated 5th October, 2006 which have
been placed before this Court by the respondent show that the board also
noticed that its approval was merely an enabling decision for induction of FDI
without prejudice to the legal/adjudicatory rights of the parties concerned,
under any existing contractual agreement.
192\. Pursuant to the recommendation of the FIPB, the Government of India
granted approval to the respondent by its letter dated 26th October, 2006
which has been assailed by the petitioner in the High Court of Judicature at
Ahmedabad.
193\. The proposal dated 22nd July, 2006 to the FIPB submitted by the
respondent set out its intention to set up a wholly owned subsidiary and build
a new float glass plant in India in two phases. In para 9(a)(A) of its
application, the respondent has unequivocally stated that ``the existing joint
venture GGL is in the same field as the new proposed wholly owned
subsidiary'`. In phase I, it was proposing to build a float glass
manufacturing plant with capacity of at least 600 metric tonnes per day while
in phase II it was building on the same site a glass coating facility.
194\. Undoubtedly, in the instant case, GGL was not defunct or sick. However,
a committee of the FIPB was of the opinion that the setting up of the proposed
division was not likely to jeopardise the interest of existing joint venture
and consequently recommended the proposal of the respondent for consideration
and approval of the competent authority. The petitioner is stated to have
assailed the recommendations of the FIPB in proceedings before the Gujarat
High Court. The scope of those proceedings is concerned with the legality and
validity of the approval under press note 1 (2005 series) and not of the
contractual stipulations between the parties and the commitments by the
respondent under clause 14 of the SHA.
195\. It is noteworthy that the other share holders in the joint venture have
also opposed setting up of the wholly owned subsidiary by the respondent.
196\. The petitioner has placed the stand of the Union of India, Ministry of
Finance in the writ petition filed by it assailing the recommendation under
press note 1 (2005 series) granted vide letter dated 26th October, 2006. In
the affidavit dated 10th November, 2006 filed by the officer (OSD), Capital
Page 1234 Marketing and Investment of the Department of Economic Affairs in
the Ministry of Finance in Special Civil Application 2206/2006 in the High
Court of Gujarat at Ahmedabad, it was stated that the ``SHA under question is
binding on the signatories of JV partners. Any breach of the said agreement
has to be agitated before the court of law'`.
197\. On the own showing of the respondent, its submission that it is bringing
exchange to the tune of US$ 150 to US$ 200 million for the purpose of setting
the wholly owned subsidiary may be misleading. The petitioner has pointed out
that as per the application of the respondent to the FIPB, the respondent
proposes to raise US $ 200 million/equity debt ratio of 1:2 and intended to
invest only US $ 66.67 by way of equity, that too, in two or three years.
The respondent itself has pointed out that GGL itself admittedly has reserves
to the tune of US $ 60 million with profits secured in US $ 2 million per
month. It is a debt free company. Consequently it is more than eligible for
procuring working capital finances from banks. On these projections, the
petitioner has urged that GGL, with its existing reserves, is fully capable in
itself for undertaking expansion.
198\. The respondent has placed strong reliance on the recommendation given by
FIPB to its proposal on 5th of October, 2006. On the other hand, the
petitioner has urged that this recommendation cannot impact adjudication in
the present case inasmuch as the board was not concerned with the commitment
of the respondent that it would not undertake similar business during the
subsistence of SHA as per clause 14 of the agreement.
199\. In several pronouncements, the courts have held that the irreparable
injury which may result to a petitioner has to be weighed against the injury
which may result to the respondent if the injunction as prayed for is granted.
In the instant case, approaching the FIPB for approval is only one of the
steps towards setting up its wholly owned subsidiary. There is no dispute that
the respondent has yet to take steps for setting up of the plant. Arbitration
is expected to be an efficacious and speedy remedy and in my view, certainly
the balance of convenience lies in favor of the petitioner and against the
respondents.
200\. Clause 14 of the SHA prohibits the parties to set up any other similar
business as the joint venture unrelated to whether it competes or not. The
issue of breach of contract was certainly not a consideration before the FIPB.
No material has been pointed out by the respondent as having been placed
before the FIPB other than its own self-serving bald statements and
assurances.
201\. I also find that there is no manner of enforcing the assurance and
guarantee given by the respondent before the FIPB that the business of the
subsidiary proposed to be set up by it would not impact the business of the
joint venture inasmuch as it is relatable to third parties with whom it would
be conducting business and who would not be bound by the assurance given by
the respondent. The FIPB on 5th October, 2006 has also observed that its
approval is merely an enabling decision which is without prejudice to any Page
1235 existing contractual agreement. In view of the stand of the government
also it therefore, cannot be held that grant of approval by FIPB would bind
adjudication by this Court. Suppression of material facts and delay
202\. According to the respondents, the petitioner is also disentitled to any
relief in this petition on grounds of suppression of material facts. According
to the respondent, the petition does not adequately disclose the proceedings
before the FIPB. It has been pointed out that FIPB had given a hearing to the
petitioner which fact has not been disclosed in the petition. The petitioner
is also alleged to have not disclosed the revival plan dated 22nd August, 2006
submitted to the IDBI which has been appointed as the operating agency.
According to the respondent, this fact coupled with the clamour for dividends
by the petitioner is indicative of its dishonourable motives. The respondent
has also urged that it has repeatedly offered assistance to Mr. Vinay Modi
representing the MRL in resolving its existing problems and since 2003, it had
been indicating that expansion of GGL was desirable but only if MRL could
resolve its internal problems.
203\. The respondent has also opposed the grant of relief in the application
on grounds of delay. It has been urged that the termination of the SHA was
effected on 21st July, 2006 and the respondent had approached the FIPB on the
22nd July, 2006. The petitioner filed its objections before the FIPB on the
14th August, 2006. The present petition has been filed only on the 9th of
October, 2006 after the petitioner has appeared before the FIPB on the 5th of
October, 2006 after the proposals of the respondent had been cleared by the
FIPB Core Group.
204\. The respondent has terminated the SHA by its letter dated 21st July,
2006. The Board of the petitioner considered the matter on 12th August, 2006.
On 21st August, 2006, the petitioner requested the respondent to re-consider
its action. It was only on 25th September, 2006, that the respondent informed
the petitioner that there would be no re-consideration. The petitioner has
contended that the first hearing before the FIPB took place on 5th October,
2006 when the intentions of the respondent were further crystalised
necessitating the filing of the present petition on 9th October, 2006.
205\. I find that even though the respondent had filed a petition under
Section 9 of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 in July, 2006 being
O.M.P. No. 337/2006, it has approached the Arbitral Tribunal only on 16th
October, 2006.
206\. There is also no dispute that the respondent has urged that it would
take more than one year to set up its wholly owned subsidiary. In these
circumstances, the time taken by the petitioner does not amount to such a
delay as would disentitle the petitioner to grant of an injunction. Nature of
relief which can be granted under Section 9
207\. Section 9 of the Arbitration Act enables a court to exercise
jurisdiction and pass such orders as are required to maintain the sub-stratum
of the subject matter of the arbitration.
208\. The next issue which deserve to be considered is the nature of relief to
which a party may be entitled. Section 9 confers a discretionary power on Page
1236 the court which has to be exercised sparingly and cautiously, the object
of the statutory provision is to be found in the words of the Section itself
which confers jurisdiction on a court to pass orders of interim measures of
protection for the preservation, interim custody or sale of goods which are
the subject matter of the arbitration agreement; securing the amount in
dispute in the arbitration proceedings; detention, preservation or inspection
of a property which is the subject matter of the dispute in arbitration;
authorise any person to enter upon a land or building; taking of samples or
making of observation or experiment to be tried as may be necessary or
expedient for the purposes of obtaining full information or evidence. The
court is empowered to even appoint a receiver in respect of the property which
is the subject matter of the arbitration and take such interim measures of
protection as may be just and convenient. The powers granted on the court are
far reaching. The statute has specifically mandated that the court would have
the same power for making such orders as it has for the purposes and in
relation to any proceedings before it.
209\. It is also necessary to examine the parameters within which the court
shall exercise such power. The manner and limits of exercise of such
discretion have fallen for consideration in several judicial pronouncements
and the principles laid down can be usefully called out thus:
(i) Even though Section 9 does not embody the ingredients of Order 38 Rule 5
of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 nor the conditions of the Order 38 Rule 5
can be read into it, however for the exercise of discretion there under, the
court can take guidance from the provisions of Order 39 as well as Order 38 of
the Code of Civil Procedure, Rite Approach Group Ltd. v. Rosoboron Export).
(ii) The scope of Section 9 of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 is
in pari meteria with the provisions of Order 39 of the Code of Civil
Procedure, 1908. The power vested in the court by virtue of Section 9 must be
exercised in consonance with equity which tempers the grant of discretionary
relief as the relief of interim injunction is wholly equitable in nature.
(Ref: Gujarat Bottling Co. Ltd. v. Coca Cola and Ors.; 2004 (115) DLT 219 :
2004 (8) AD (Delhi) 361 Reliance Infocomm Ltd. v. Bharat Sanchar Nigam Ltd.)
(iii) The intention of the defendant is a sine qua non for invoking Section 9
where the claim is to secure the amount in dispute in arbitration. The court
can take guidance from Order 38 Rule 5 of the CPC and Sections 18 and 41 of
the Arbitration Act, 1940 for considering whether such a relief as has been
prayed for in the petition under Section 9 deserves to be granted. (Ref:
Global Co. v. National Fertilisers Ltd.; Page 1237 Mala Kumar Engineers Pvt.
Ltd. (MKE) v. B. Seenaiah and Co. (Projects) Ltd.)
(iv) Protection under Section 9 can be granted only when a prima facie case is
made out and balance of convenience and possibility of irreparable loss and
injury to the petitioner is made out. Section 23 of the Specific Relief Act,
1963 provides that the provision of liquidated damages is not a bar to the
specific performance of the contract. The general rule of equity is also that
if a thing is agreed to be done, though there is a penalty attached thereto to
secure its performance, yet the court in its discretion enforces specific
performance thereof. The jurisdiction of the court is discretionary and must
be exercised on such judicial principles when balance of convenience and
possibility of irreparable loss and injury is shown to the plaintiff (Ref:
Geep Batteries (India) Pvt. Ltd. v. Gillette India Ltd.; Techno Construction
v. Kunj Vihar Co\- operative Group Housing Society)
(v) The discretionary power of the court under Section 9 has to be exercised
by the court sparingly and cautiously, bearing in mind that the objective of
the court is to create an alternative dispute redressal mechanism and
consequently, the interference by the court is not required at every stage.
(Ref: 2006 (128) DLT 694 DB Sanrachna (India) Inc. v. AB Hotels Ltd.) Whenever
the powers of the courts are invoked under Section 9 with the objective of
supporting the arbitration, the court must act with alacrity. However, this
would not justify grant of interim orders and relief on the mere asking. (Ref:
2000 (87) DLT 449 : 2000 (6) AD (Delhi) 509 : 2000 (55) DRJ 750 CREF Finance
Ltd. v. Puri Construction Ltd.; 2006 (91) DRJ 83 Sea Transport Contractors
Ltd. v. Indian Farmers Fertilizers Co-operative Ltd.)
(vi) The scope and object of Section 9 of the statute is to grant such relief
by way of interlocutory injunction so as to mitigate the risk or injustice to
the petitioner during the period before that uncertainty can be resolved. Its
object is to protect the plaintiff against injury by violation of his right
for which he could not be adequately compensated in damages which would be
recoverable in the action if the uncertainty were resolved in his favor at the
trial. (Ref: Gujarat Bottling Co. v. Coca Cola and Co.; 2006 (4) AD (Delhi) 38
Country Development and Management Services Pvt. Ltd. v. Brookeside Resorts
Pvt. Ltd.) In Shaw v. Him Neel Brewaries Ltd., Learned Single Judge of this
Court held that the interim orders are calculated to ensure that the assets of
the party are not dissipated Page 1238 or frittered away and that such orders
do not fall within the moratorium of Section 22.
(vii) The application seeking interim measures of protection under Section 9
of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 pertaining to the preservation,
interim custody or sale of equipment which is the subject matter of the
agreement would be covered under Section 9(ii)(a) as also under Section
9(ii)(c), (d) and (e) of the Act. (Ref: National Highways Authority of India
(NHAI) v. China Coal Construction Group Co.)
(viii) The court has the power to pass an order under Section 9 during the
pendency of the arbitration or even after the arbitral award but before the
award is enforced in accordance with Section 36. Such order can be passed for
preservation, interim custody or sale of any goods which are the subject
matter of the arbitration agreement or securing the amount in the dispute and
the like. (Ref: 2006 (128) DLT 694 Sanrachna (India) Inc. v. AB Hotels Ltd.;
2000 (87) DLT 449 CREF Finance Ltd. v. Puri Construction and Ors.)
(ix) The power under Section 9 to grant interim relief is available to the
court while under Section 17, such powers to make interim measures are made
available to the Arbitral Tribunal. Even though there may be some degree of
overlap between the two provisions, however, the powers under Section 9 are
much wider inasmuch as they extend to the pre and post award period as well as
with regard to the subject matter and the nature of the orders which the court
is empowered to pass. Therefore, pendency of an application under Section 17
before the Arbitral Tribunal does not denude the court of its power to make an
order for interim measures under Section 9 of the statute. (Ref: National
Highways Authority of India (NHAI) v. China Coal Construction Group Co.)
(x) It has been held that though Section 9 enables a party, before or during
arbitral proceedings or at any time after the making of the arbitral award but
before it is enforced under Section 36 of the Act, may apply to the court for
an interim order under Section 9, however, without a substantive move for
reference or declaration on the petitioner's stand on the substantive relief
by an appropriate forum, Section 9 cannot be invoked for grant of interim
relief. (Ref: Firm Ashok Tralers and Anr. v. Gurmukh Das; Sudarshan Finance
Ltd. v. NEPC; National Building Construction Corporation Ltd. (NBCC) v. Ircon
International Ltd.) Page 1239
(xi) So far as the questions which can be considered in a petition under
Section 9 of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 are concerned,
certainly issues which are to be decided in the substantive arbitration
proceedings cannot be gone into in a petition under Section 9 of the statute.
Thus, a question as to whether the agreement between the parties was validly
entered into or whether it was validly terminated has to be determined only in
the arbitration proceedings and cannot be determined in a petition under
Section 9 of the statute. (Ref : 2002 (8) AD (Delhi) 617 : 2003 (66) DRJ 239
S. Raminder Singh v. NCT of Delhi).
A similar question had arisen before this Court in D.R. Sondhi v. Hella K.G.
Hueck and Co. In para 14 of the judgment, it was held by this Court that the
question as to whether the material breach has been committed or not or if
there is any breach at all was agitated but it was not gone into for the
reason that it is not the question for determination at present.
210\. This Court while considering the petition under Section 9 of the
Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996, does not have the jurisdiction to
return a finding on the merits of a claim made or a dispute raised by the
parties before the arbitrator. However, there can be no dispute that this
Court is required to examine the existence of a prima facie case on the
assertions of the petitioner with regard to the termination of the agreement
in the facts and law applicable and as to strength in the petitioner's case as
to the bindingness and subsistence of the SHA. Irreparable Injury and the
Balance of convenience consideration
211\. In a judgment reported at Sociedade de Fomento Industrial Ltd. v.
Ravindranath Subraya Kamat and Ors., the expression used in clause 4 of the
contract which was being considered prohibited the respondent No. 1 from
undertaking any business activity competing with the business of the
plaintiff-company.
The court noticed the case of the plaintiff that the activities of the
defendant's business were of a similar nature to that of the plaintiff and
that it was in competition with the business of the plaintiff. However, no
other material was placed on record to show that there was any act of
competition in the business with the plaintiff-company by the defendant.
The plaintiffs had urged that the business of the defendant-company was in
competition with the plaintiffs, and that they were not required to produce
any further proof of such competition. This contention was rejected by the
court holding thus:
14\. While appreciating the above referred contentions of the appellants, one
cannot forget that this is a matter pertaining to equitable relief being
sought by the appellants. No amount of weakness on the part of defense case
can ensure to benefit of the plaintiffs to obtain the equitable reliefs. It is
the duty of the plaintiffs seeking the assistance of the Court for equitable
relief, to disclose all the facts which can entitle the plaintiffs to justify
the grant of the relief asked for. Once it is not disputed that Page 1240
Clause 4 clearly provides that what is sought to be restrained is the
competition by the defendant No. 1 with the business of the plaintiff's
company and the grievance of the plaintiff is that there is a violation or
breach of the defendant No. 1 of Clause 4 in that regard it is primarily for
the appellant company to plead and prima facie establish that there is
violation by the defendant No. 1 in respect of Clause 4 inasmuch as there has
been a business by the defendant No. 1 in competition with the business of the
plaintiffs companies. It cannot be said that similar business will always
amount to competing with each other. Whether one party is competing with
another in similar business is a matter of fact and is to be established by
producing sufficient material to establish such fact.
In order to establish such fact, there must be pleadings on record.
Competition will certainly involve doing something with the intention or
purpose of gaining upper hand on someone else. Such an act can be done in
different ways and methods. Each of such methods can constitute a bundle of
facts giving rise to a cause of action to somebody who is aggrieved by the act
of competition. But in order to succeed in such suit, it is necessary to plead
and prove all such facts which constituted the act of competition. Mere
allegation that similar business started by the defendants amounts to
competition with the business of the plaintiff's company cannot amount to a
statement of fact pertaining to the competition. It would be rather a
submission on the part of the plaintiff. For example, in the case of claim of
adverse possession it is not just sufficient to state that the plaintiff is in
peaceful possession of the land for over 12 years. It is necessary to state
when it became adverse, nature of possession, the fact of the possession being
to the knowledge of the owner, etc. Similarly, it is not sufficient to merely
allege that the defendants have entered into competition with the plaintiffs
by starting similar business. It is necessary to disclose the facts which
constitute the competition with the business of the plaintiffs by the
defendants. This will include not only the nature of the business started by
the defendants but also the different methods those may be adopted by the
defendants for the purpose of competition with the plaintiffs in the similar
business.
212\. So far as loss likely to occur which has been pleaded by the petitioner
in the present case is concerned, a scrutiny of the pleadings of the
petitioner shows that in its petition, it has pleaded that the action of the
respondent in setting up of wholly owned subsidiary would be prejudicial to
the interest of the existing joint venture and violative of the contractual
provisions which are binding on the respondent such as:
(1). Respondent would be induced to concentrate only on their 100% subsidiary
and will ignore GGL operations where they have only a stake of 50% (2). Future
growth of GGL will be stopped as all further expansion will be taken up by the
Respondent only in the subsidiary company (3). In float glass industry the
margins are much higher in value added products viz. mirrors, coated glass,
tempered and laminated glass and Page 1241 automotive glass. Respondent will
pursue manufacturing of these products only in its subsidiary rather than GGL
leading to reduced profitability at GGL.
(4). Respondent would force GGL to undertake more exports being near to the
sea and use the subsidiary largely to meet the requirements of the Indian
market. Respondent is planning to put up its subsidiary in North India. The
margins in glass industry are much higher in the domestic market as compared
to the export market. This would lead to reduce profitability at GGL.
(5). If GGL sets up the second plant instead of the Respondent setting up the
new subsidiary, it would be much more cost effective. It would provide economy
of scale to GGL, which would improve its competitive position in the market
and hence improved profitability. This would not be the case if the Respondent
is allowed to have its own subsidiary.
213\. Elsewhere in the petition, the petitioner has stated that the guarantee
which the respondent has put forth that the interest of the joint venture
would not be prejudiced has no validity and cannot be enforced.
214\. My attention has been drawn to the note by the respondent in support of
its application dated 22nd July, 2006. In para 5 of this note at page 306 of
the paper book, I find that the respondent has categorically stated '(b) that
the growth of glass consumption in the Indian construction industry increasing
(roughly 15% per year since last year) and GGL has been unable to satisfy the
increased demand as it has been running at its maximum capacity for a few
years and has therefore been unable to ``capitalize on this increased demand.
GGL has also not been able to capitalize on the large unfulfilled export
market. c) As the competition grows and GGL is stifled, GGL will not be able
to offer as diversified a product line as its competitors resulting in reduced
profitability. If Guardian is allowed to build a second line, it will help
stabilize GGL.'
215\. In the same note, the respondent has asserted that in the proposed
subsidiary, it anticipates that 50% of the total production would be tainted
glass, 20% would be dedicated to the coater and 30% of its production would be
devoted to the float glass. It has been unequivocally stated that there would
neither be any development of technology, nature of product or the capacity of
the joint venture GGL. The respondent has thereby clearly and unequivocally
stated that it has no intention of either improving the available technology
or the existing plant of the joint venture GGL nor it proposes to extend its
facilities. Undoubtedly, the intent is to stultify the development of a joint
venture.
216\. The respondent has interestingly pointed out that soon after the GGL was
set up in March, 1997, its losses exceeded its paid up capital. Consequently,
in January, 1998, GGL the joint venture filed a reference before the Board of
Industrial and Financial Reconstruction. GGL at this stage, submitted a
rehabilitation plan that was addressed by the BIFR in June, 1999. There is no
dispute that the respondent never sought to terminate the SHA when the future
of GGL was itself in jeopardy.
Page 1242
217\. So far as the impact of the subsidiary on the profitability and revenues
of the joint venture company GGL is concerned, the petitioner has clearly
stated that the impact of such a subsidiary and its on going production would
result in diminishing the value of the share holding of the petitioner-
company in GGL and that thereby the petitioner and its minority share holders
would be unjustly deprived of valuable rights with the act of breach by
respondent.
The petitioner has clearly stated that setting up of the wholly owned
subsidiary shall result in irreversible damage to the rights of the
petitioner.
218\. The respondent has urged that the wholly owned subsidiary is proposed to
undertake manufacturing of glass and glass products and coating of glass using
advanced coating technology. In phase-I, the respondent proposes to build only
a float glass manufacturing plant with the capacity of at least 600 metric
tonnes per day. It is only in phase-II that the respondent would build on the
same site, a glass floating facility. Before the FIPB, the respondent has
stated that 20% of the new plant would be dedicated to the coating technology.
However, initially, the major production would be float glass which is the
product manufactured by GGL. It is only in the phase-II of the proposed
susidiary that the respondent proposes to add new products which are not made
by GGL. In this background, it cannot be said that the apprehension of the
petitioner to the effect that the production activities of the wholly owned
subsidiary would impact the business of GGL are without any basis.
219\. The respondent has urged that its wholly owned subsidiary would be at
another location in a different State and geographically removed from GGL.
However, there is no restriction or confinement of its business, distribution
or sales to the location where it is proposed to be located lending force to
the petitioner's apprehension that its sales and business would be impacted.
220\. Mr. Mukul Rohtagi, learned senior counsel for the respondent, has
however urged at great length that despite the state in which MRL finds
itself, GGL has reached the maximum level of its production capacity and
further that there are really no reserves or surpluses in the GGL which could
be diverted towards expansion and that an amount of US $ 45 million is
actually needed for cold tank repairs. It has been contended that the fact
that in an audit conducted by the officials of Guardian as regards the
condition of the furnace, it was discovered that the cold tank repairs could
be undertaken in the coming two years, does not vary the position that such
repairs are required and the amount in question has also to be set aside for
this purpose. In this behalf, reliance has been placed on the annual report of
GGL for the year 2005 purportedly signed by Mr. V.K. Modi himself.
221\. However, from the documents on record it would appear that in the year
2006, these reserves earmarked for the cold tank repair, were returned back
since the amount was not required immediately. The submission is that this was
a pure financial matter, would not impact the availability of the amount. My
attention has been drawn to the director's report to the shareholders for the
year 2005-2006 wherein an explanation has been given as to why there Page 1243
was no requirement of reserves for the cold tank repairs immediately. In the
Directors report of GGL for the year ending 31st March, 2006, it has been
noticed that based on the current expected life of the furnace, the present
financial and liquidity position and the expected future cash flows, it was
estimated that substantial funds would be available to finance the major
repairs in future.
This was the reason which was given in the director's report for transferring
back the amount of Rs. 13,500/- lakhs which was appropriated to reserves for
cold tank repair to the profit and loss account in the current year.
222\. It has been strenuously contended on behalf of the petitioner that the
respondent has prevented expansion of GGL not because the same is not
possible. It has been pointed out that the respondent has exercised its power
to Veto such expansion which has been provided to it under Article 148 of
Article of Association which reads thus:
148\. Subject always to any directions of the company in General Meeting by
Special Resolution, so long as Modi and GACL together and Guardian shall be
members of the company, (each holding not less than fifteen per cent 15% of
the total issued equity capital of the company) the following powers shall be
exercised by the Board or a Committee of the Board if such powers are
delegated under the provisions of these Articles by an alternative vote of a
majority of directors which majority shall include at least one (1) director
nominated or appointed by Guardian and at least one (1) director nominated or
appointed by MRL.
xxx xxx xxx (xiv) undertaking any new business or substantial expansion of the
business including the establishment of plants for the manufacture of other
types of glass or for the fabrication of products made from float glass.
223\. In the exercise of such power, the respondent has not allowed even
discussion of a proposal to expand GGL at any of its board meetings. On the
other hand, the respondent has clearly refused that there is any plans for
expansion of GGL. My attention has been drawn to the minutes of the meeting of
the board of directors of GGL held on 30th August, 2006 which has been filed
by the respondent before this Court wherein on a query raised by Mr.C.J. Jose,
IAS about expansion of GGL's capacity, Mr. Peter Walters, Vice Chairman of GGL
(a nominee of the respondent) replied that 'there is no immediate plans for
expansion'.
The respondent had addressed a letter dated 6th July, 2006 to the IDBI wherein
also it had admitted that it was not proposing to undertake any expansion at
GGL if it is permitted to set up a wholly owned subsidiary. The respondent has
also clearly stated now that it was unwilling to provide any further
technology to GGL for the very reasons that it has given in support of it,
terminating the shareholder's agreement.
224\. Perusal of the letter dated 6th July, 2006 sent by the respondent shows
that the respondent had clearly informed the petitioner to either sell its
shares to it or to permit it to expand separately in India. There is no
dispute Page 1244 that there was no consideration of the option of expanding
GGL's business. It is also an admitted position that the market share of GGL
had reduced not because it was not running its affairs profitably but because
of other producers in the field.
225\. The respondents have stated that the minutes of the Board meeting dated
30th August, 2006 relied upon by the petitioner are only draft minutes and are
yet to be finalised. It is in any case, submitted that it is not as if the
cold tank does not need the repairs. Such repairs have only been postponed.
According to the respondent, Mr. Peter Walters had stated that the GGL has no
immediate plans of expansion in view of the state in which the MRL found
itself.
226\. Looked at from whatever angle, even if the amount which has been
considered necessary for cold tank repairs, is so immediately utilized, I find
that there is no dispute even by the respondents that the GGL was still a
vibrant profitable business enterprise which was capable of sustaining its
business, and that, despite the disputes in which MRL or its promoters were
involved, GGL had faced no difficulty even during the period when the MRL was
before the BIFR or when it was facing a winding up proceedings in the High
Court of Judicature at Allahabad.
227\. Be that as it may be, there is no dispute that the GGL has the financial
capacity and that there is no dispute that it is functioning with technical
and administrative capability and has reserve surplus in its cash flow as
noticed hereinabove.
228\. In its note to the FIPB on 5th October, 2006 in para 9(c), the
respondent admitted that cold tank repair is not to be undertaken for the next
two years, i.e. by the end of 2008. The admitted position is that the Board of
GGL had not considered any proposal for undertaking the repairs of the cold
tank which was not absolutely eminent.
229\. The respondent has also considered alternative utilization of the fund
which would be available on account of reversal of the entry for the funds
which was earmarked for the cold tank repairs and towards this end, it had
addressed a communication dated 2nd February, 2006 wherein it had considered
supporting a dividend payment of up to 40% and reiterated its preference to
use the available cash to repurchase shares from the Gujarat Government.
230\. It may be noticed that the respondent has attempted to explain this
communication only in its written submissions stating that by this letter, the
respondent was emphasising its concern with regard to the instability and
chaos at MRL and its emphasis and its concern about acquisition of 75% or, in
any case, majority shareholding in the GGL. It was also contended that the
reversal of the amount allocated towards the cold tank repairs was only as a
financial measure and for no other reason.
231\. The petitioner has taken great pains to point out that as per the
figures of the accounting of GGL, its estimated profit for the year 2005-2006
was to the tune of Rs. 14,828 million which was expected to go up to Rs.
22,000 million. It was submitted that so far as the current cash availability
was Page 1245 concerned, a sum of Rs. 300 crores (US $ 65 millions) was
available and based on figures for the current year, upon calculation of the
additions and adjustments of the amount of Rs. 202.50 (equivalent to US $ 45
millions) towards the cold tank repairs, there was still a net surplus of Rs.
216.44 crores.
232\. In my view, for the purposes of the present case, these elaborate
submissions would be immaterial and except that the submissions laid by both
sides indicate that GGL is a profitable enterprise having adequate and growing
reserves, whether they be for divident disbursement or to be used for repairs
or are otherwise utilised.
233\. Therefore, to obtain an interim injunction, the plaintiff must
demonstrate both not only the prima facie case that is the likelihood of
success on the merits of the claim but also a substantial risk of irreparable
harm in the absence of an injunction. If such factors are established, the
court is required to balance against the harm that the injunction may inflict
on the opposing party, including the impact on public interest.
234\. The principal submission on behalf of the petitioner has been that the
respondent cannot be permitted to avoid its contractual liability with the
petitioner as the SHA dated 23rd January, 1990 remains valid and binding and
consequently, the respondent cannot proceed with its proposal to set up a
wholly owned subsidiary which would be in violation of the agreement between
the parties.
235\. In an answer to the respondent's submission that the proposed project of
the respondent would bring in huge amounts of foreign exchange, it has been
pointed out that the respondent proposed to bring in foreign exchange in two
phases. In the first phase, the project cost was to the tune of US $ 150
million while in the second phase, its cost was US $ 50 million. The
respondent has proposed induction of foreign exchange in the nature of equity
to the tune of US $ 66.67 million only and the respondent was proposing to
infuse approximately US $ 60 million in the new subsidiary over the next two-
three years.
236\. From the documentation which has been placed on record, it has been
pointed out that the existing joint venture GGL currently has over US $ 66
million in liquid assets including a bank balance which was growing at the
rate over US $ 2 million per month. Consequently, it is pointed out that the
existing joint venture already had adequate resources to meet the entire
equity financing for the proposed project and that the expansion of the
existing joint venture was definitely a feasible and available option. The
joint venture was profit-making and debt-free without any borrowing for its
working capital. Such position has been stated to be subsisting for the last
few years. The petitioner points out that substantial advantages have been
created by the GGL in terms of marketing, distribution and establishment of
the brand for which benefit would be diverted by the respondent to its
proposed wholly owned subsidiary.
237\. The petitioner has also criticised the plea taken by the respondent with
regard to generation of additional employment placing reliance on the figures
Page 1246 relating to GGL. It has been pointed out that GGL has established
itself as a company of standing and has been providing trained personnel to
the respondent's international operations in several countries and thereby it
is a major resource for provision of skilled men and trained manpower needed
for the business of the respondent. According to the petitioner, the wholly
owned subsidiary of the respondent would result in diversion of skilled
manpower which has been trained by GGL to its detriment.
It is further pointed out that even the fact that the wholly owned subsidiary
is to be geographically separated from the location of the GGL and is proposed
to be set up at a distance from Ankleshwar, Gujarat where GGL is located.
However, it was pointed out that as per the proposal, the respondent was
required to export 40% of the production from the new plant and Guardian was
intending to manage and control both its wholly owned project as well as GGL.
The petitioner apprehended that the respondent would use GGL for meeting its
export requirements while using the new project to service the larger and more
profitable percentage in the Indian market which was more profitable than the
export. The petitioner has buttressed this submission pointing out that the
respondent would be more interested in the profitability of its wholly owned
subsidiary inasmuch as it would own 100% of the new project and only fifty
percent of the existing GGL. On this basis, it is submitted that apart from
violation of the contractual commitment to the petitioner, the setting up of
the subsidiary was wholly detrimental and was opposed to the interest of the
joint venture. It has been submitted that the profitability of the wholly
owned subsidiary would also guide the respondent's policies in the technology
sharing with the GGL and impact on the payments which the respondent expected
GGL to make to it.
238\. According to the petitioner, GGL, a highly successful company had
adequate resources to meet the entire project cost for the proposed new
project and there was no need at all for setting up a wholly owned subsidiary
by the respondent. It has been vehemently urged that the respondent has
deliberately not permitted GGL to proceed with such project which had been
proposed to be implemented in GGL by using its affirmative vote which allowed
it to veto the setting up of such a plant and it is for this reason, GGL which
was a market leader holding market shares which were more than 33%, found its
leadership position eroded and taken over by other competitors. It is also the
petitioner's case that the respondent has earned huge amounts from the joint
venture on account of the payments towards the technology which was shared and
advanced to it.
239\. Another argument which has also been advanced in support of the
imperative necessity to proceed with the establishment of the plant by the
respondent is based on the status of the float glass industry in India and the
growing threat to the business on account of competitors' acquiring a large
chunk of the market. Mr. Mukul Rohtagi, learned senior counsel has urged that
the production of float glass in India has doubled from 589 thousand metric
tons per year in 2003 to 1048 thousand metric tons per year in the year 2007.
GGL's production is stated to have gone up from 195 thousand metric ton to
2007 thousand metric tons per year in the same period which Page 1247 is
beyond its maximum capacity. However, despite this position, GGL's share in
the float glass production in India has gone down from 33% to 20%. According
to the respondent, this is because the GGL's plant located in Ankleshwar,
Gujarat was the first float glass plant in India which commenced commercial
production in the market on 1st March, 1993 with the installed capacity of 550
thousand metric tons per day.
Thereafter, its competitors M/s Asahi India Safety (earlier known as Float
Glass India) first commenced commercial production in Taloja in Maharashtra in
1995 with a capacity of 500 metric tons per day. However, its second plant is
currently under construction in Uttranchal which is expected to go onstream in
early 2007 with a production capacity of 700 metric tons per day. St. Gobain
located in Perumudur near Chennai also launched its first plant in July, 2000
with a capacity of 650 metric tons per day. A third establishment known as the
Triveni Glass (Allahabad) commenced production of float glass using Chinese
technology in 1996, also having a production capacity of approximately 230
metric tons per day.
240\. These submissions would have bearing in respect of balance of
convenience if there had been any consideration of the capacity of GGL to
expand or face competition. The same does not appear to ever have been an
issue. There is also no dispute that the GGL's financial health was in a good
position and it was flush with funds. The same is apparent from the various
proposals which were mooted at the instance of the respondent for utilising
some of the funds which were available towards cold tank repairs. The proposal
made on 2nd February, 2006 to utilise these funds for buying back the
shareholdings of the Gujarat Government establishment as also the refusal to
utilize the ``available funds'` for releasing dividends to shareholders goes
to show that funds were available. The respondent has not placed or relied on
any proposal to expand the capacity of GGL. I also find that the respondent's
termination of the agreement with the petitioner does not emanate from growing
competition in trade inasmuch as there is no dispute that GGL remains a
vibrant and profitable enterprise.
241\. The petitioner has pointed out that even in 2003, the joint venture
partners foresaw the growth of the demand for its production and had agreed
that it was desirable to expand existing facilities of the GGL by setting up
an additional float glass plant. MRL is stated to have proposed conservation
of internal accruals towards furtherance of expansion which fact the
respondent has acknowledged in its letter dated 19th November, 2003. But such
proposal did not culminate in any active consideration.
242\. The petitioner has challenged the claim of the respondent that it is
intending to bring in latest and improved technology through the wholly owned
subsidiary into the country. It has been asserted that this claim itself
demolished the intent put forth of the respondent that it had any interest in
the development of the business of the joint venture.
243\. It is an admitted position that the demand for the product of the joint
venture and those manufactured by the respondent is increasing in India and
that GGL has ability and resources to address this demand. According to the
petitioner, the project which is proposed by the respondent to be Page 1248
implemented by it through its wholly owned subsidiary was first recommended to
be implemented by the joint venture which still has the financial, technical
and managerial capacity to undertake the same. It has also been submitted that
the very basis of the joint venture agreement postulated expansion of the
business and that the basic spirit, intendment and purpose of bringing in the
latest and improved technology into India had resulted in the parties entering
into the agreement and creation of a joint venture company.
244\. The petitioner has also argued that improved technology increases scale
of operations on a cost-effective basis and that there is no reason why the
respondent could not be interested in diverting value added products which are
more profitable to its wholly owned subsidiary depriving GGL of potential
revenue and profit stream. For the same reason, the petitioner has apprehended
prejudice to the imports of products.
245\. I find that interestingly, it is not the joint venture GGL's industrial
or financial health which is purportedly guiding the respondent's decision but
the status of the petitioner. Even though the petitioner has emphasised the
impact of the proposed wholly owned subsidiary on the value of its
shareholding in GGL, however, the respondent had been at great pains to urge
that the value of the MRL's shareholding in GGL would not go down even if
GGL's market shares go down since the respondent would be supporting it. In
evidence of such an intention, the respondent has stated that it is willing to
keep its offer for purchase of MRL's shareholding in GGL open for a reasonable
period of time to allay the petitioner's apprehensions in this behalf. It has
been repeatedly urged by the respondent that not only is the respondent unable
to expand within GGL but it finds itself unable to do so on account of the
circumstances that the petitioner finds itself in. Such a stand has been taken
despite the strong emphasis laid by the respondent on the fact that it is
holding 50% of shares in GGL while the petitioner is holding only 21.24% of
shares.
246\. The respondent has the power of veto on all material decision-making as
per the Articles of Association and is not only influencing but is controlling
the decision-making so far as GGL is concerned. In this background therefore,
while the concerns of the respondent even though may be legitimate, however,
it has to be borne in mind that the same are prima facie not supported by any
facts and figures inasmuch as MRL has been in such a position since 2000 while
GGL has continuously grown in status and strength over this period. In this
background, the submission made by the respondent that its new venture would
not compete with GGL or that the petitioner's sole interest in the matter is
restricted to the value of its shareholding and any reduction to the same can
be compensated adequately, is wholly misconceived. Such a submission certainly
does not consider the reasonable apprehension of the petitioner with regard to
the impact on the goodwill and business of the GGL.
247\. Prima facie, there is strength in the submission of the petitioner that
the intent of the respondent to not expand the existing joint venture is
guided not by any of the concerns which have been set forth but by the change
in the respondent's intention of benefitting itself at the expense of the GGL.
Page 1249
248\. So far as the asserted contention of the respondent that the products
which are being manufactured by GGL and those manufactured by the newly
proposed wholly owned subsidiary would complement each other, I find that the
petitioner has pointed out that the products manufactured under GGL are sold
under the tradename 'Modi Guard' which is marked recognition. There is no
dispute that the products which are proposed to be sold by the newly set up
wholly owned subsidiary would not be sold under the same tradename. The
petitioner has pointed out that the consumers in the market will not relate
the product of the Modi Guard with that which is manufactured at the proposed
subsidiary which would strongly impact the sales of the petitioner as also its
goodwill. The petitioner has submitted that GGL would thus suffer loss of
market shares, goodwill and profits which are incapable of quantification and
consequently, the loss which would be suffered would be irreparable.
249\. Therefore, the proposal of the respondent is clearly to freeze the
business of the joint venture at its existing point. By setting up the wholly
owned subsidiary it proposes to develop not only the second line but also the
same product as the petitioner. The respondent is thereby effectuating its
refusal to share new technology with GGL and is completely scuttling any
attempt for its expansion. It is not either party's contention that the
agreement between them when the joint venture was conceptualised, did not
envisage any expansion of the facilities or the project or that it was limited
to the existing capacity alone. It has stated that it would divert new
technology only to this subsidiary and does not propose to share any of its
technology with the joint venture. It proposes that the joint venture would
exist but says that its business would not be developed.
250\. In this background and bearing in view the detailed submission made by
the respondent with regard to the growing competition, there is certainly
strength in the apprehension of the petitioner that the interest of the
respondent lies in promoting the wholly owned subsidiary which would certainly
be a competitor for the business of the petitioner; would take the market
share of the joint venture in the product which it is manufacturing and that
its business would certainly be negatively impacted.
251\. The contract between the parties was a commercial contract and the
prohibition which was contained in Clause 14 is to operate only during the
subsistence of the agreement and was provided in the interest of the joint
venture. The respondent has refused to share technology or permit expansion of
the joint venture not because the joint venture could not have coped with the
same or that the petitioner could not have participated or contributed to the
expansion but on its apprehension that the petitioner's involvement in the
proceedings before the BIFR would render the petitioner as incapable of
participating in the venture in a healthy manner.
252\. It cannot be lost sight of that if the wholly owned subsidiary is set up
and goes into business, undoubtedly, the market share of the joint venture
shall further go down. There is also reasonable apprehension that hitherto
customers of the GGL may divert their business and attention to the new wholly
owned subsidiary which the respondent has proposed to set up and Page 1250
which would directly impact the business interest of the joint venture. There
can be no dispute that the formation of a new business would impact the
goodwill of the on-going business and would, therefore, impact the
petitioner's 'legitimate interest' in the profits of the joint venture.
253\. So far as the irreparable harm from breach of clause 14 in the instant
case is concerned, the determination thereof would not rest solely on the
existence and subsequent breaches of this covenant between the parties.
Several factors which would support the irreparable harm determination would
include an inability to calculate damages, harm to goodwill, diminishment of
competitive positions in the market places, loss of employees' unique services
and loss of opportunities to manufacture and distribute unique products. There
can be no manner of doubt that the respondent's decision to propose the wholly
owned subsidiary is based on its intention of capturing the huge customers
base at available in the market in the country.
254\. Goodwill is considered as a legitimate business interest and is the
company's positive reputation in the community, particularly in the eyes of
its customers and potential customers. The respondent has categorically stated
that its actions should not impact the current customers' base of the
petitioner. But, it is an admitted fact that the petitioner's customers would
be targetted by the respondent through its wholly owned subsidiary. Loss of
goodwill is recognised as being hard to quantify in terms of compensable
damages and certainly gives rise to the need for an equitable injunctive
relief. The respondent being closely associated and holding 51% equity share
holding in the joint venture undoubtedly has access to every aspect and detail
of the working of the joint venture. It would certainly be guided and would
utilize such information for the purposes of furthering the business of its
wholly owned subsidiary wherefrom it shall derive 100% profits.
255\. So far as the consideration of the aspect of the maintenance of the
joint venture's existing market shares is concerned, as noticed hereinabove,
the wholly owned subsidiary to be set up by the respondent would be producing
the same product as being produced by the petitioner and would not be selling
the same under the trademark and trade name of the joint venture. The
respondent has categorically stated that it has no intention of bringing in
any new technology into the joint venture or participate in its expansion.
Undoubtedly, these actions would result a smaller market share of the joint
venture in the future. It is well established that loss of current or future
market share may constitute irreparable harm. (Ref: Freedom Holdings v.
Spitzer 408 F.3d at 114-15; Novartis Consumers Health Inc. v. Johnson and
Johnson Merc. Consumers Pharms .Co. 290 F.3d 578, 526 : 3d CIR.2002.
It is equally well settled that in a competitive industry, consumers would be
influenced by the branding and the loss of market shares is a potential harm
which cannot be retraced by a legal or an equitable remedy following a trial.
256\. I find that the issues raised in the present case have arisen in several
cases decided by the courts in the United States of America and adjudication
Page 1251 in these matters gives a valuable insight into the matter. The
Supreme Court of the State of New York had an occasion to consider a matter
raising a claim by the plaintiff based on the non-compete clause in its joint
venture with the defendant. In the judgment reported at Ned Steinfields v.
General Visions Services Inc. (INDEX No. 600942/99-001 Cal# 9-3/8/99 Supreme
Court of New York, the plaintiff had moved for a preliminary injunction to
enforce the terms of a contract forming a joint venture between himself and
the defendant. The court noticed that the defendants did not deny most of the
actions which had been complained of by the plaintiff as a breach of the
agreement. It was even admitted, as in the present case, that it had entered
into an agreement whereby it has expanded its business activities without
including the plaintiff and to this the plaintiff had not consented. The
defendants claimed that the joint venture agreement was void for the reason
that it was obtained in breach of the fiduciary duty which the plaintiff owed
to the defendant. Consequently, they had unilaterally terminated the joint
venture agreement and urged that such a termination had freed it of any
further duty to abide by any of the joint venture agreement's provision.
The court held that the defendant had not established any right to
unilaterally void the agreement between the parties nor had they offered
probative evidence to show that the amendment to the agreement was obtained
through any breach of the plaintiff's fiduciary obligations to the defendant.
It was also held that the defendant was competing with the joint venture by
starting a business relationship with a new store without the plaintiff's
consent which was in flagrant breach of the parties covenant not to compete
which establishes the element of irreparable harm under the New York Law. On
these facts, the court reiterated the principle that irreparable injury to the
goodwill invested in the on-going business is established without the need to
show the actual loss of customers.
It was also noticed that there would be flow of patients and income away from
the joint venture which would certainly erode its business and cause loss to
the plaintiff which would not be compensable in money damages inasmuch as the
patients who moved away would be unlikely to return to the joint venture
locations and that patients would not be in a position to comprehend the
distinction between the joint venture and the other business undertaken by the
defendant without the participation of the plaintiff. It was held that
issuance of an injunction was appropriate to protect the plaintiff's
'legitimate interests' in the profits of the joint venture. Consequently,
holding that equity was tipped in the plaintiff's favor, the court had passed
an order of status quo with regard to the joint venture business.
257\. The United States Courts of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit, in a case
reported at 356 F.3d 1256 : 2004 US App LEXIS 1382 Dominion Video Satellite
Inc. v. Echostar Satellite Corp. and Ors., the court had an occasion to
consider a prayer for injunction based on a breach of the exclusivity clause.
In this case, the court had negated the injunction which was prayed for on the
ground that the plaintiff has failed to show anything which could persuade the
court to hold that the loss of exclusivity rights itself constitute
irreparable harm without evidence of any further damage.
Page 1252 Several judicial pronouncements were relied upon the court including
Tom Doherty Assocs., Inc. v. Saban Entm't, Inc. 60 F.3d 27, 37-39 : 2d Cir.
1995 (loss of prospective goodwill through inability to market unique product
constituted irreparable harm); JAK Prods., Inc. v. Wiza 986 F.2d 1080 : 1084
7th Cir. 1993 (under Indiana law, when employee uses experience gained from
employer in violation of covenant not-to-compete, irreparable injury occurs);
Basicomputer Corp. v. Scott 973 F.2d 507 : 511-12 6th Cir. 1992 (violation of
covenant not-to-compete constituted irreparable harm where damages were
difficult to calculate, customer goodwill was damaged, and plaintiff suffered
loss of competitive position); Rent-A-Center, Inc. v. Canyon Television and
Appliance Rental, Inc. 944 F.2d 597 : 603 9th Cir. 1991 (irreparable harm
established from violation of covenant not-to-compete where intangibles like
advertising efforts and goodwill were injured); Equifax Servs., Inc. v. Hitz
905 F.2d 1355, 1361 : 10th Cir. 1990 (irreparable harm exists where damages
from breach of covenant not-to-compete difficult to calculate); Ferry-Morse
Seed Co. v. Food Corn, Inc. 729 F.2d 589, 592 (8th Cir. 1984) (breach of
exclusive distribution agreement constituted irreparable harm where company
was disadvantaged in competitive market by inability to market unique seed
corn); Shred-It USA, Inc., 202 F. Supp. 2d at 233-34 (loss of employee's
unique services to competitor in violation of do-not-compete agreement
constituted irreparable harm); Green Stripe, Inc. v. Berny's Internacionale,
S.A. 159 F. Supp. 2d 51, 56-57 (E.D. Pa. 2001) (violation of exclusivity
clause in sales contract constituted irreparable harm where plaintiff was
denied ability to sell unique, perishable grape and lacked market substitute
to maintain its presence in Mexican grape market); J.C. Penney Co., Inc., 813
F. Supp. at 369 (inherent nature of exclusive provision in lease coupled with
damage to goodwill, difficulty of calculating damages, and unique nature of
interest in real estate constituted irreparable harm); Walgreen Co. v. Sara
Creek Prop. Co. 775 F. Supp. 1192, 1197 (E.D. Wisc. 1991) (where exclusivity
clause in lease was breached, loss of goodwill, erosion of customer base, and
diminution of corporate image provided grounds for finding irreparable harm),
aff'd, 966 F.2d 273 (7th Cir. 1992); see also Autoskill Inc. v. Nat'l Educ.
Support Sys., Inc. 994 F.2d 1476, 1498 (10th Cir. 1993) (loss of uniqueness in
marketplace satisfied irreparable harm factor where plaintiff established harm
to goodwill and difficulty in calculating damages); Reuters Ltd., 903 F.2d at
907-09 (loss of unique product and goodwill supports finding of irreparable
harm when customers indicate a strong preference for the product and threaten
discontinuation of business relationship).
It was also noticed that certainly there are cases in which courts have made
findings of irreparable harm based on the loss of unique rights protected by
contract. But those cases were distinguished from the controversy before the
court because they focussed on harm to a unique market position based on
evidence of loss of a unique product or goodwill, or difficulty in calculating
damages. See, e.g., Tom Doherty Assocs., Inc., 60 F.3d at 38 (irreparable harm
arises where loss of ability to market unique product damages company's
prospective goodwill); Reuters Ltd., 903 F.2d at 907-08 (damages to goodwill
as a result of loss of unique product supports finding of irreparable harm);
Ferry- Morse Seed Co., 729 F.2d at 592 (company irreparably harmed where Page
1253 it would suffer disadvantage in competitive market by inability to sell
unique product); Green Stripe, Inc., 159 F. Supp. 2d at 56-57 (irreparable
harm arises from denial of ability to sell unique product and inability to
obtain market substitute); J.C. Penney Co., Inc., 813 F. Supp. at 369
(irreparable harm found, in part, from acknowledgment that damage to interest
in real estate is generally viewed as unique); see also Autoskill, Inc., 994
F.2d at 1498 (loss of unique position in marketplace evidenced by harm to
goodwill and difficulty in calculating damages).
258\. Perusal of the letter dated 6th July, 2006 sent by the respondent shows
that the respondent had clearly informed the petitioner to either sell its
shares to it or to permit it to expand separately in India. There is no
dispute that there was no consideration of the option of expanding GGL's
business. It is also an admitted position that the market share of GGL had
reduced not because it was not running its affairs profitably but because of
other producers in the field.
259\. There can be no manner of doubt that so far as the respondent's
contribution to GGL is concerned, it has received the contracted consideration
for the technical and any other contribution made by it. The products
manufactured by GGL are sold under the trade name 'Modi Guard' which is a mark
enjoying goodwill and recognition. The respondent has not claimed that it
would be selling products manufactured by its proposed wholly owned subsidiary
under the same trade name. The petitioner points out that the respondent shall
be selling its products under its own worldwide brand ``Guardian'`. The
petitioner points out that the wholly owned subsidiary in the market will not
relate to the products of Modi Guard. It has apprehended that, as a result,
the consumers may be persuaded to shift their purchase to the goods
manufactured by the proposed wholly owned subsidiary directly impacting the
business and goodwill of the petitioner.
260\. In these foregoing circumstances and the legal principles judicially
recognised as constituting irreparable injury, the petitioner has adequately
demonstrated a reasonable apprehension of loss of goodwill and market share
and strong likelihood of irreparable harm in the market in which it operates.
It is also to be held that balance of convenience is in favor of the
petitioner.
261\. I find that there is an important distinction in the prohibitory clauses
in the cases which have fallen for consideration before various courts as
noticed above and clause 14 in the instant case. Clause 14 of the SHA
prohibits MRL and Guardian from participating, negotiating or engaging, or
being financially interested, directly or indirectly, in any other project for
the manufacture of float glass or other products. The prohibition to involve
in or undertaken similar business is clear, unequivocal and absolute without
even requiring an element of competition between the joint venture or the
other project.
Interestingly, clause 6.5 dealing with the transfer of the shareholding
prohibits sale of shares to a transferee which is engaged in ``competing'`
business with the company.
In the instant case, there is no dispute that the proposed wholly owned
subsidiary is to manufacture float glass as well as other products made by
Page 1254 the joint venture in India. Prima facie, this by itself would
entitle the petitioner to assert that the respondent is threatening to breach
the SHA between the parties entitling it to interim protection. However, in
the facts noticed above, it has been held that the petitioner has been able to
make out a prime facie case in its favor and that there is reasonable
apprehension of irreparable damage in case the interim protection is not
granted.
262\. It is well settled that the intent of the respondent is a relevant
factor while consideration of the grant of interim relief under Section 9 of
the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996. The petitioner contends that the
entire conduct of the respondent in unreasonably withholding declaration of
dividends, persuading UTI and other financial institutions with whom the
petitioner's shares are pledged/mortgaged to compel the petitioner who is a
minority share holder to sell the shareholding at a distress value. The
petitioner has urged that the conduct of the respondent is really in the
nature of effecting a corporate take over in exercise of its power under
clause 2.11 of the shareholders agreement to the prejudice of the petitioner.
263\. In this behalf, the petitioner has drawn my attention to the letter
dated 6th July, 2006 written by the respondent to the IDBI whereby the
respondent communicated a formal offer of a proposal for preparing a scheme of
rehabilitation of MRL pointing out that MRL owned 33,335,000 shares in the
joint venture, GGL amounting to 21.2% of its share capital and the share
holders agreement dated 23rd January, 1990. The respondent submitted that in
order to assist the IDBI to put forth a scheme of rehabilitation, Guardian was
prepared to provide meaningful liquidity to MRL by entering into only either
of the two following arrangements:
Guardian hereby offers to buy Modi Rubber's shares in GGL. We understand that
ICICI Securities acting on behalf of the Financial Institutions, has recently
valued these shares at Rs. 55 per share. In order to facilitate a transaction
and eliminate the uncertainty of negotiations with us while you work on other
elements of the scheme of rehabilitation, Guardian is prepared to pay Rs. 55
per share (approximately USS40M) and can close and make payment in cash within
10 days of acceptance of this offer.
If you do not wish to sell the GGL shares, Modi Rubber should provide Guardian
with permission to expand in India separately from GGL and Modi Rubber. Modi
Rubber would provide (1) a release from paragraph 14 of the shareholders
agreement between Modi Rubber and Guardian International (though we do not
accept the enforceability to this provision); and (2) a letter of no objection
to the FIPB. If Modi Rubber does so prepared to agree with Modi Rubber to
cause GGL to pay a significant dividend. For example, if GGL were to pay a
significant dividend, 22.4% of the dividend would go Modi Rubber and could be
used in your scheme of rehabilitation. We can arrange for dividend to be
declared as promptly as the required meetings of Modi Rubber can be called.'
The same proposal was placed before the Unit Trust of India (UTI) by the
respondent by a letter dated 6th July, 2006 urging that thereby MRL would have
the liquidity to make a reasonable payment to Page 1255 its secured creditors.
The respondent even informed the UTI that it was willing to invest separately
from MRL in case it so preferred.
264\. This proposal was also placed by the respondent before the Board of
Industrial and Financial Reconstruction (BIFR) by an application for
impleadment filed in July, 2006 wherein the respondent stated thus:
7\. Specifically, the Applicant is willing to buy MRL's shareholding in GGL at
Rs. 55 per share, aggregating to Rs. 184.25 Crores (approx. USD 40M). This
valuation is based on an independent valuation performed by ICICI Securities
at the direction of the Financial Institutions who have a 44% shareholding in
MRL. This offer has already been made to the Operating Agency, IDBI vide
letter dated 6.7.06. The applicant has also written to the Financial
Institutions who have a 44% shareholding in MRL offering to buy GGL shares
from MRL, vide letters dated 14.6.06 and 6.7.06 copies whereof are annexed
hereto as Annexure-A(colly). The applicant is seriously concerned that MRL's
shareholding in GGL may be sold under a scheme of rehabilitation to third
parties without the required express consent of the applicant under GGL's
Articles of Association and without giving Applicant a pre-emptive right to
purchase said shares. In the above circumstances, the Applicant is an
interested and a necessary party in the above proceedings and needs to be
heard with regard to its proposal. xxxx xxxx xxxx PRAYER
i) implead the Applicant Guardian International Corp. as a necessary and
interested Party in the above proceedings especially in view of its offer as
stated in paragraph 7 of the instant application;
ii) pass such other or further order as deem fit and proper in the facts and
circumstances of this case.
265\. This offer to purchase the shares held by the petitioner in GGL was also
urged as a ground in support of its application before the Foreign Investment
Promotion Board (FIPB). In the submissions filed by the respondent in July,
2006 before the FIPB, it expressed the apprehension that the petitioner would
sell its shareholding to a third party without effectuating the pre- emptive
right of the respondent to purchase the shares of the petitioner in GGL.
266\. In this behalf the respondent stated that in para 21 of O.M.P. No.
337/2006 of the respondent at page 155 wherein it was stated thus:
...It further transpires that the inter se disputes between the promoters of
the respondent company are also fuelled by their interest and intention to
participate in GGL. It is in fact the stand of the petitioner that given the
circumstances under which the shareholders agreement stood frustrated, the
very raison d'etre for the participation of the respondent in GGL no longer
stands. The petitioner is willing to buy the respondents shareholding in GGL
and willing to pay a fair price for the same, and the petitioner believes that
the respondent ought to transfer its shareholding in GGL in favor of the
petitioner. These are however, Page 1256 all disputed issues which perforce
would need to be resolved as per the arbitration clause (Clause 26) in the
Shareholders Agreement. It is, however, imperative that pending such imminent
arbitration proceedings, urgent interim orders are passed by this Hon'ble
Court. Hence this petition.
267\. Before this Court, the respondent has filed a reply on 13th October,
2006 wherein it has again stated that it is willing to buy the petitioner's
shares in GGL at a fair market value and that it had filed an application for
impleadment at the BIFR towards this end.
268\. During the course of hearing, the respondent repeatedly stated that it
was only willing to purchase the shares held by the petitioner in terms of the
offers contained in the above communications. An oral offer made during the
course of hearing on 21st November, 2006 by the petitioner to purchase the
share holding of Guardian in GGL was answered by the respondent in their
written submissions filed on 24th November, 2006 in the following terms:
n.) That Guardian has offered to buy MRL's shareholding in GGL at a valuation
arrived at by ICICI Securities Ltd. and an application to this effect was also
filed before the BIFR (see page 439), apart from request being made to the
Financial Institutions which hold 44% of the shareholding in MRL (see page
527- 531). Throughout Guardian's discussions with MRL's Mr. V.K. Modi, the
intention has always been for Mr. V.K. Modi to acquire GACL, GMDC and MRL's
shareholding in GGL which would then be sold to Guardian (see page 522-525
especially the beginning paragraphs where meeting with Mr. V.K. Modi is
discussed and then Mr. Modi's offer of sale at Rs. 60-65 is discussed). Never
has there been any hint of MRL offering to purchase Guardian's shareholding in
GGL ' the very thought was preposterous given that MRL's net worth stood
eroded and it was declared sick by the BIFR ' nor was such an offer (to buy
Guardian shares in GGL at Rs. 72.50 per share) ever made until the final day
when arguments were addressed before this Hon'ble Court. Even then, no time
limit was provided as to the payment to be made to Guardian in the unlikely
even that the offer was acceptable to Guardian. It is submitted that Guardian
is fully committed to its investments in GGL and is not a seller. This has
been made clear even before the FIPB.
269\. In a later portion of the submissions, the respondent has further
submitted in para VI that 'for the first time during the course of arguments
before this Hon'ble Court that MRL has made an offer to buy Guardian's
shareholding in GGL. Guardian will respond to this offer shortly. Guardian has
serious doubts about the financial capability of MRL to make the payment,
given that is net worth is eroded.' The respondent had also stated that they
harboured serious doubts about the financial capability of MRL to make the
payment stating that its net worth is eroded.
270\. After judgment was reserved in the matter on 12th November, 2006, the
respondent filed I.A. No. 13512/2006 submitting that it had communicated
acceptance of the offer made in court to the petitioner's counsel verbally on
28th November, 2006 and subsequently in writing on 30th November, 2006. It
Page 1257 was stated that with the purchase of respondent's share holding in
GGL by the petitioner, it was likely that all the disputes between the parties
shall stand settled. On these submissions, the respondent made a prayer that
these additional facts and events be taken on record and the matter be posted
for an appropriate direction.
Notice was issued to the petitioner on this application who has filed a reply
pointing out that the offer of the petitioner was rejected outright by the
respondent in court which opposition was reiterated in the written submissions
filed on 24th November, 2006. The petitioner has contested the claim of the
submission made by the respondent submitting that its communication dated 30th
November, 2006 is a conditional acceptance which has been replied by the
petitioner by communication dated 8th December, 2006.
In its rejoinder, the respondent has referred to this course of events as
'talks of settlement'. The parties were heard on this application on the 15th
of December, 2006 till which date no firm settlement was placed before this
Court.
Therefore, so far as adjudication in the present matter is concerned, this
Court is not required to go into this aspect any further as the fact remains
that the parties had agreed that the term SHA would be so long as the parties
held 15% shareholding (Clause 16) which they did on all material dates.
271\. The present case is concerned with a joint venture by two legal entities
to undertake a business for mutual profit. The expression 'joint venture' came
up for consideration before the Supreme Court in the judgment reported at New
Horizons Ltd. v. UOI. The Apex Court noticed that the expression 'joint
venture' is more frequently used in United States, and that it connotes a
legal entity in the nature of a partnership, engaged in the joint undertaking
of a particular transaction for mutual profit, or an association of persons or
companies jointly undertaking some commercial enterprise wherein all
contribute assets and share risks. It requires a community of interest in the
performance of the subject-matter, a right to direct and govern the policy in
connection therewith, and duty, which may be altered by agreement, to share
both in profit and losses.
272\. Undoubtedly, such an enterprise can best work in a situation of trust,
confidence and comfort. Parties to joint ventures couch their bindings in
stringent contractual covenance and complexities. The present case is an
outcome of purportedly diminishing of confidence levels between two strong
business partners; an example of one of the partners declaring complete loss
of confidence even though admittedly the joint venture which they have
undertaken is going stronger and there is not a single complaint against the
other partner of mismanaging the affairs or disturbing the affairs is evident.
So far as its contribution to the joint venture is concerned, both parties
have placed strong reliance on the milestones achieved by GGL and its
profitability and in fact, both parties are justifying their respective
positions based on the financial health of the joint venture.
Page 1258
273\. An important issue which has been drawn up in the present case relates
to the manner in which the parties can effect termination of a joint venture.
The complexities of the transactions appear to leave either party at the risk
of opportunism by the other party. For this reason, it appears that the
parties endeavored to protect against such uncertainty by providing stringent
conditions and parameters within which the parties are to act. Contractual
safeguards to ensure transparency in conduct and protection against arbitrary
terminations are provided in the agreement which the parties entered into.
274\. Joint ventures are intended to be strong alliances which allow the firms
to tap resources of each other and thereby increase their own capabilities.
Therefore, joint ventures fill a strong need for organisations as they enable
organisations, to extend resources, acquire tacit resources and engage in
forms of organisational and scientific learning. It is natural that as the
firms' capabilities grow, it may no longer need the co-operation of its joint
venture partner.
275\. In the instant case, GGL and MRL entered into a joint venture for the
obvious reason that the same was in their mutual interest. The parties agreed
on the proportion of their contributions. Guardian was admittedly compensated
for its technical contributions by the joint venture. From the facts noticed
above, not only has GGL discharged all its financial liabilities towards the
respondent but also is placed in a healthy situation so far as the financial
reserves are concerned. It has been vehemently urged by both sides that GGL is
a debt free company.
276\. Undoubtedly, GGL has displayed technical, financial and managerial
discipline. Guardian has been able to take the benefit of the experience of
MRL's long standing and experience on the Indian industrial scene. Guardian
has thus been successful in maintaining a joint venture in a culture which is
totally dissimilar to its own experience in the USA. It has certainly gained
from the experience, knowledge and contribution of MRL in India and derived
profits from the technical contribution made by it. In all the complaints made
by Guardian in order to justify its action of termination, there is not even
whisper of an allegation that either MRL or any of its constitutes or
contractors have not fulfillled or have jeopardised GGL's business and
functioning in any manner. Therefore, even while, MRL is facing problems
within its organisation, however, the disputing factions have been able to put
up a combined effort so far as business transactions involving GGL are
concerned. Perhaps, having maximised production and profits, it could be
stated that this case is an instance of opportunism at its best inasmuch as
there is no dispute as to manner of conduct of the business of the joint
venture and the joint venture partner is being abandoned after deriving
commercial profits from the project while relying on the very agreement which
the petitioner claims to rely upon.
277\. At this stage, it becomes necessary to notice the several factors which
indicate that even after 21st July, 2006, the respondent has treated the SHA
to be subsisting and that its intent to set up the wholly owned subsidiary did
not commence from its action in terminating the SHA.
Page 1259 The intention of the respondent to set up a wholly owned subsidiary
without the participation of the petitioner, did not commence from issuance of
a letter of termination dated 21st July, 2006 but is evident from the letter
dated 17th July, 2006 whereby it attempted to obtain the consent of Gujarat
Alkalis and Chemicals Limited to so set up a wholly owned subsidiary. The
respondent has sought written consent of the petitioner to allow it to
establish the wholly owned subsidiary by the letter of 21st July, 2006 in the
first phase and in the second phase, a manufacturing plant with the glass
coating facility with advanced technology. The very fact that the respondent
has sought the consent of the petitioner by its letters dated 6th July, 2006
and 21st July, 2006 shows that such consent was being sought in terms of the
SHA. The respondent in fact communicated the format in which it needed the no
objection from the petitioner. In the petition filed by the respondent being
OMP No. 337/2006, under Section 9 of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act,
1996, on 24th July, 2006, the respondent sought preservation of the
shareholding pattern set out in Article 3(b) on Article of Association of GGL
and also sought to enforce its pre-emptory rights of purchase of shareholding.
Such pre-emptory right is not available under the Articles of Association but
is available to the parties only under Clause 6 of SHA.
The respondent has sought a restraint order against the petitioner from
transferring its shareholding in GGL without the petitioner's consent and
without giving effect to Guardian's pre-emptory rights to purchase shares.
Undoubtedly, such a right could be enforced only if the agreement is
subsisting and binding upon the parties.
There is also no arbitration clause in the Articles of Association of GGL. The
same is available only in the shareholder's agreement. The respondent pursuant
to the arbitration agreement contained therein, has made a request for
arbitration before the London Court of International Arbitration (LCIA)
wherein it has sought a declaration with respect to the validity of the
termination of the agreement effected by it on 21st July, 2006 and release of
its obligation under Clause 14 of the shareholders agreement.
Therefore, prima facie, the respondent remains bound by the terms of SHA and
cannot avoid the same.
278\. In the instant case, there is no dispute that the wholly owned
subsidiary which is being complained of has not yet come into existence. The
petitioner has set up a case of apprehended loss of business and goodwill
which could not be quantifiable. It is also an undisputed fact that the
validity of the very basis on which the entire case of the respondent rests,
that is, its action of unilaterally terminating the agreement, has yet to be
decided before the arbitrator.
In these facts, it cannot certainly be contended that the petitioner does not
have a friable case or that interest of justice and equity are not in its
favor. The petitioner is likely to be suffered irreparable loss and damage.
The relief to which the petitioner would be entitled is preservatary so as to
preserve the subject matter of the dispute. The respondent has relied upon
several covenants of the very agreement which it claims to have terminated and
has sought adjudication upon the validity of the termination before the
arbitrators. Page 1260 Pending such determination, the respondent cannot be
permitted to proceed to conduct business which would amount to a breach of
Clause 14 of the SHA whereby it is prohibited from conducting any business
similar to that of the joint venture.
The submissions made by the respondent in IA No. 13512/2006 have been taken on
record and considered. The prayer made therein, therefore, stands satisfied.
I, accordingly, allow OMP No. 477/2006 to the extent of prayers (a) and (b)
and restrain the respondents, its affiliates or associates from participating,
negotiating, engaging in or being financially interested, directly or
indirectly in any other project for the manufacturing of Float Glass, or for
the fabrication of products made from Float Glass, or for the sale,
import/export of Float Glass or related products made from Float Glass in
India. The respondent shall also stand restrained from taking any steps in
setting up a wholly owned subsidiary in India for manufacturing in the same
field as GGL.
So far as prayer (c) and (d) are concerned, the same shall abide adjudication
in the writ proceedings which are stated to have been initiated by the
petitioner.
This order shall operate till making of the Award by the Arbitral Tribunal.
It is made clear that this Court has only taken a prima facie view in the
matter and nothing herein contained shall be considered as an expression of
opinion or a finding on the merits of the dispute pending before the Arbitral
Tribunal.
similar to that of the joint venture.
The submissions made by the respondent in IA No. 13512/2006 have been taken on
record and considered. The prayer made therein, therefore, stands satisfied.
I, accordingly, allow OMP No. 477/2006 to the extent of prayers (a) and (b)
and restrain the respondents, its affiliates or associates from participating,
negotiating, engaging in or being financially interested, directly or
indirectly in any other project for the manufacturing of Float Glass, or for
the fabrication of products made from Float Glass, or for the sale,
import/export of Float Glass or related products made from Float Glass in
India. The respondent shall also stand restrained from taking any steps in
setting up a wholly owned subsidiary in India for manufacturing in the same
field as GGL.
So far as prayer (c) and (d) are concerned, the same shall abide adjudication
in the writ proceedings which are stated to have been initiated by the
petitioner.
This order shall operate till making of the Award by the Arbitral Tribunal.
2\. So far as the basic facts are concerned, there is no material dispute and
to the extent necessary, they are noticed hereinafter. The petitioner M/s Modi
Rubber Ltd., (hereinafter referred to as 'MRL' for brevity) entered into a
Memorandum of Understanding ('MOU') dated 1st July, 1988 with M/s Guardian
International Corporation arrayed as respondent before this Court,
(hereinafter referred to as 'Guardian').
3\. Guardian is stated to be a leader in manufacturing float glass and the
agreement between the parties states that it has acquired unique and valuable
engineering skills and expertise for designing, constructing and operating
plants for the manufacture of float glass by the float process. The agreement
between the parties also notices that the MRL is a renowned industrial
establishment of India with extensive expertise in the manufacturing and
marketing of high quality industrial products in India and other countries.
4\. Besides the parties to the present petition, the agreement between the
parties also involved M/s Gujarat Alkalies Chemicals Ltd., a Gujarat
Government Corporation which had obtained a letter of intent No. LI: 779
(1989) Regn. No. 79 (89)-comp./SCS dated 13th October, 1989 issued by the
Government of India for establishing and operating a float glass plant in the
State of Gujarat.
5\. There is therefore no dispute that MRL and Guardian were both financially
similar to that of the joint venture.
The submissions made by the respondent in IA No. 13512/2006 have been taken on
record and considered. The prayer made therein, therefore, stands satisfied.
I, accordingly, allow OMP No. 477/2006 to the extent of prayers (a) and (b)
and restrain the respondents, its affiliates or associates from participating,
negotiating, engaging in or being financially interested, directly or
indirectly in any other project for the manufacturing of Float Glass, or for
the fabrication of products made from Float Glass, or for the sale,
import/export of Float Glass or related products made from Float Glass in
India. The respondent shall also stand restrained from taking any steps in
setting up a wholly owned subsidiary in India for manufacturing in the same
field as GGL.
So far as prayer (c) and (d) are concerned, the same shall abide adjudication
in the writ proceedings which are stated to have been initiated by the
petitioner.
This order shall operate till making of the Award by the Arbitral Tribunal.
2\. So far as the basic facts are concerned, there is no material dispute and
to the extent necessary, they are noticed hereinafter. The petitioner M/s Modi
Rubber Ltd., (hereinafter referred to as 'MRL' for brevity) entered into a
Memorandum of Understanding ('MOU') dated 1st July, 1988 with M/s Guardian
International Corporation arrayed as respondent before this Court,
(hereinafter referred to as 'Guardian').
3\. Guardian is stated to be a leader in manufacturing float glass and the
agreement between the parties states that it has acquired unique and valuable
engineering skills and expertise for designing, constructing and operating
plants for the manufacture of float glass by the float process. The agreement
between the parties also notices that the MRL is a renowned industrial
establishment of India with extensive expertise in the manufacturing and
marketing of high quality industrial products in India and other countries.
4\. Besides the parties to the present petition, the agreement between the
parties also involved M/s Gujarat Alkalies Chemicals Ltd., a Gujarat
Government Corporation which had obtained a letter of intent No. LI: 779
(1989) Regn. No. 79 (89)-comp./SCS dated 13th October, 1989 issued by the
Government of India for establishing and operating a float glass plant in the
State of Gujarat.
5\. There is therefore no dispute that MRL and Guardian were both financially
similar to that of the joint venture.
The submissions made by the respondent in IA No. 13512/2006 have been taken on
record and considered. The prayer made therein, therefore, stands satisfied.
I, accordingly, allow OMP No. 477/2006 to the extent of prayers (a) and (b)
and restrain the respondents, its affiliates or associates from participating,
negotiating, engaging in or being financially interested, directly or
indirectly in any other project for the manufacturing of Float Glass, or for
the fabrication of products made from Float Glass, or for the sale,
import/export of Float Glass or related products made from Float Glass in
India. The respondent shall also stand restrained from taking any steps in
setting up a wholly owned subsidiary in India for manufacturing in the same
field as GGL.
So far as prayer (c) and (d) are concerned, the same shall abide adjudication
in the writ proceedings which are stated to have been initiated by the
petitioner.
This order shall operate till making of the Award by the Arbitral Tribunal.
2\. So far as the basic facts are concerned, there is no material dispute and
to the extent necessary, they are noticed hereinafter. The petitioner M/s Modi
Rubber Ltd., (hereinafter referred to as 'MRL' for brevity) entered into a
Memorandum of Understanding ('MOU') dated 1st July, 1988 with M/s Guardian
International Corporation arrayed as respondent before this Court,
(hereinafter referred to as 'Guardian').
3\. Guardian is stated to be a leader in manufacturing float glass and the
agreement between the parties states that it has acquired unique and valuable
engineering skills and expertise for designing, constructing and operating
plants for the manufacture of float glass by the float process. The agreement
between the parties also notices that the MRL is a renowned industrial
establishment of India with extensive expertise in the manufacturing and
marketing of high quality industrial products in India and other countries.
4\. Besides the parties to the present petition, the agreement between the
parties also involved M/s Gujarat Alkalies Chemicals Ltd., a Gujarat
Government Corporation which had obtained a letter of intent No. LI: 779
(1989) Regn. No. 79 (89)-comp./SCS dated 13th October, 1989 issued by the
Government of India for establishing and operating a float glass plant in the
State of Gujarat.
5\. There is therefore no dispute that MRL and Guardian were both financially
strong and stable and had entered into a relationship of trust and faith.
These parties entered into a Memorandum of Understanding dated 1st July, 1988
whereby they agreed in principle to collaborate and promote a joint venture
company in India in the assisted sector with the State of Gujarat through one
of its nominee companies, subject to grant of requisite Indian Government
approvals and obtaining all requisite finances to undertake, amongst others,
the production and marketing of flat glass using the most advanced and up to
date float process based on the expertise acquired by Guardian or any of its
subsidiaries. As per this MOU, the initial issued equity share capital of the
company was agreed to be subscribed in the following percentages:
(i) Guardian or one of its subsidiaries 40.00%
similar to that of the joint venture.
The submissions made by the respondent in IA No. 13512/2006 have been taken on
record and considered. The prayer made therein, therefore, stands satisfied.
I, accordingly, allow OMP No. 477/2006 to the extent of prayers (a) and (b)
and restrain the respondents, its affiliates or associates from participating,
negotiating, engaging in or being financially interested, directly or
indirectly in any other project for the manufacturing of Float Glass, or for
the fabrication of products made from Float Glass, or for the sale,
import/export of Float Glass or related products made from Float Glass in
India. The respondent shall also stand restrained from taking any steps in
setting up a wholly owned subsidiary in India for manufacturing in the same
field as GGL.
So far as prayer (c) and (d) are concerned, the same shall abide adjudication
in the writ proceedings which are stated to have been initiated by the
petitioner.
This order shall operate till making of the Award by the Arbitral Tribunal.
2\. So far as the basic facts are concerned, there is no material dispute and
to the extent necessary, they are noticed hereinafter. The petitioner M/s Modi
Rubber Ltd., (hereinafter referred to as 'MRL' for brevity) entered into a
Memorandum of Understanding ('MOU') dated 1st July, 1988 with M/s Guardian
International Corporation arrayed as respondent before this Court,
(hereinafter referred to as 'Guardian').
3\. Guardian is stated to be a leader in manufacturing float glass and the
agreement between the parties states that it has acquired unique and valuable
engineering skills and expertise for designing, constructing and operating
plants for the manufacture of float glass by the float process. The agreement
between the parties also notices that the MRL is a renowned industrial
establishment of India with extensive expertise in the manufacturing and
marketing of high quality industrial products in India and other countries.
4\. Besides the parties to the present petition, the agreement between the
parties also involved M/s Gujarat Alkalies Chemicals Ltd., a Gujarat
Government Corporation which had obtained a letter of intent No. LI: 779
(1989) Regn. No. 79 (89)-comp./SCS dated 13th October, 1989 issued by the
Government of India for establishing and operating a float glass plant in the
State of Gujarat.
5\. There is therefore no dispute that MRL and Guardian were both financially
strong and stable and had entered into a relationship of trust and faith.
These parties entered into a Memorandum of Understanding dated 1st July, 1988
whereby they agreed in principle to collaborate and promote a joint venture
company in India in the assisted sector with the State of Gujarat through one
of its nominee companies, subject to grant of requisite Indian Government
approvals and obtaining all requisite finances to undertake, amongst others,
the production and marketing of flat glass using the most advanced and up to
date float process based on the expertise acquired by Guardian or any of its
subsidiaries. As per this MOU, the initial issued equity share capital of the
company was agreed to be subscribed in the following percentages:
(i) Guardian or one of its subsidiaries 40.00%
similar to that of the joint venture.
The submissions made by the respondent in IA No. 13512/2006 have been taken on
record and considered. The prayer made therein, therefore, stands satisfied.
I, accordingly, allow OMP No. 477/2006 to the extent of prayers (a) and (b)
and restrain the respondents, its affiliates or associates from participating,
negotiating, engaging in or being financially interested, directly or
indirectly in any other project for the manufacturing of Float Glass, or for
the fabrication of products made from Float Glass, or for the sale,
import/export of Float Glass or related products made from Float Glass in
India. The respondent shall also stand restrained from taking any steps in
setting up a wholly owned subsidiary in India for manufacturing in the same
field as GGL.
So far as prayer (c) and (d) are concerned, the same shall abide adjudication
in the writ proceedings which are stated to have been initiated by the
petitioner.
This order shall operate till making of the Award by the Arbitral Tribunal.
