Gujarat High Court
4 Whether This Case Involves A ... vs State Of Gujarat & on 23 September, 2016
                    R/SCR.A/3508/2012                                           CAV JUDGMENT
                         IN THE HIGH COURT OF GUJARAT AT AHMEDABAD
                         SPECIAL CRIMINAL APPLICATION NO. 3508 of 2012
                                                 With
                         SPECIAL CRIMINAL APPLICATION NO. 3509 of 2012
             FOR APPROVAL AND SIGNATURE:
             HONOURABLE MR.JUSTICE A.J. SHASTRI
             ================================================================
1 Whether Reporters of Local Papers may be allowedNo to see the judgment ?
             2     To be referred to the Reporter or not ?                          No
             3     Whether their Lordships wish to see the fair copy ofNo
                   the judgment ?
             4     Whether this case involves a substantial question ofNo
law as to the interpretation of the Constitution of India or any order made
thereunder ?
================================================================ PEPSICO INDIA
HOLDINGS PVT.LTD & 1....Applicant(s) Versus STATE OF GUJARAT &
1....Respondent(s)
been allowed to continue so that on filing of the report under Section 173
CrPC the affected party could pursue its remedy against the report in
accordance with law. Keeping in view the fact that the criminal case was at
the stage of investigation by the police the High Court was not justified
inholding that the investigation of the impugned FIR is totally unwarranted
and that the same would amount to gross abuse of the process of the court. "
34\. From the above discussion and analysis of the background of fact, the
exercise of extraordinary inherent jurisdiction is not possible to be
exercised. Hence, both these petitions are dismissed hereby and interim
reliefs which have been granted stand vacated. It is expected that in view of
the earlier direction issued by this Court in cognate petition filed at the
instance of other accused persons who were discharged the main case which is
pending before the learned Trial Court be expeditiously dealt with and it is
needless to say that trial Court will examine all the defence of petitioners
in accordance with law, after granting appropriate opportunity.
35\. With these observations both petitions are disposed of. Rule is
1....Respondent(s)
================================================================ Appearance:
MR. SV RAJU SENIOR ADVOCATE WITH BHADRISH S RAJU, ADVOCATE  for the
Applicant(s) No. 1 - 2 MRS VD NANAVATI, ADVOCATE for the Respondent(s) No. 2
MR KP RAVAL ADDITIONAL PUBLIC PROSECUTOR for the Respondent(s)  No. 1
========================================================== CORAM: HONOURABLE
MR.JUSTICE A.J. SHASTRI Date : 23 /9 /2016  Page 1 of 45 HC-NIC Page 1 of 45
Created On Sat Sep 24 02:42:12 IST 2016  R/SCR.A/3508/2012 CAV JUDGMENT CAV
JUDGMENT
1\. The petitioners by way of present petitions have approached the Court for
quashing the complaint being Criminal Case No. 52 of 2002 pending before the
learned Chief Judicial Magistrate, Jamnagar as also the order dated 10.01.2003
whereby upon said complaint, process came to be issued.
2\. The background of facts leading to filing of the petition are that
original accused no. 1 in the complaint was engaged in the business of selling
of clothes and to facilitate the customers, utilized sweetened carbonated
water ( Leher - Miranda) 500 ml packed bottles. It was alleged in the
complaint that original accused nos. 2 to 4 are the partners of original
accused no. 1 whereas accused no. 5 is the seller of the impugned packed
bottles of sweetened carbonated water (Leher­ Miranda) 500 ml. The respondent
no. 2 had filed the complaint by alleging that the accused persons have
utilized sweetened carbonated water ( Leher­Miranda) 500 ml and by selling the
said articles being not satisfied with the standard prescribed under the
Prevention of Food Adulteration Act and Rules. On 05.09.2002 for the purpose
of analysis under the provisions of Prevention of Food Adulteration Act, 1954
( for short 'the Act') sent to the public analyst and on 30.09.2002, the
public analyst reported that sample collected which is examined did not
confirm to the standards of the Act and the Rules and on the basis of  Page 2
of 45 HC-NIC Page 2 of 45 Created On Sat Sep 24 02:42:12 IST 2016
R/SCR.A/3508/2012 CAV JUDGMENT such report of public analyst, a complaint came
to be filed against all the accused persons which complaint is questioned by
way of present petition. So far as present petition is concerned, it is
brought by the original accused no. 6 Pepsico Indian Holdings Pvt. Ltd. and
accused no. 7 being the nominee of the company has questioned the legality of
the complaint on the premise mentioned in the petition.
3\. Before dealing with the case in detail, a fact is required to be noticed
that this very complaint came to be brought before this Court in the form of
Special Criminal Application No. 319 of 2003 for seeking quashing of the same
and the Hon'ble Court vide order dated 02.12.2012 was pleased to allow the
petition with exemplary cost quantified to Rs. 10000/­. The said petition was
brought by other co­ accused namely Digjam Retail Show Room Shoppers Paradise.
The decision delivered by this Court is annexed to the petition compilation at
page 52 as Annexure 'B'.
4\. Now reverting back to the facts of the present case, it is contended by
the petitioners that the allegations leveled in the complaint do not disclose
any offence much less an offence punishable under Section 7(i) read with
Section 16(1) (a)(i) of the Act of 1954. It is further contended in the
petition that the complaint is not filed under Section 17 of the Act and there
is no charge levelled specific against the petitioner company and its nominee.
The learned Magistrate ought to  Page 3 of 45 HC-NIC Page 3 of 45 Created On
Sat Sep 24 02:42:12 IST 2016  R/SCR.A/3508/2012 CAV JUDGMENT have appreciated
that there must be a separate charge against the petitioner company as
required under Section 17 of the Act and therefore, on the basis of said
complaint against the petitioner it tantamount to be an abuse of process of
law. It was also contended that report of public analyst has failed to state
that sample is adulterated. It was also contended that the complaint in
question is inherently improbable on the basis of which, no prudent person can
reach to the conclusion that there is sufficient ground for proceeding against
the petitioners under Section 7(i) read with Section 16(1)(a)(i) of the Act.
It was also contended that the petitioner company is a reputed company is not
at all require for commission of crime and the complaint in question is filed
with a manifestly malafide, based upon this and other contentions, the
petition was brought before this Court seeking quashment of the complaint
which was registered before the learned Magistrate as Criminal Case No. 52 of
2002. This Court on 14.12.2012 was pleased to admit the petition and
accordingly granted an ad­interim relief in terms of para 7 (b) and later on,
the said interim relief is continued all through out and it has now come up
for final disposal.
5\. It appears from the record that on 22.04.2016, a mention was made by the
learned counsel for the petitioner that there some cognate matter in form of
Special Criminal Application No. 3509 of 2012 is pending and therefore, this
petition is ordered to be heard along with the said cognate matter.
Page 4 of 45 HC-NIC Page 4 of 45 Created On Sat Sep 24 02:42:12 IST 2016
R/SCR.A/3508/2012 CAV JUDGMENT
6\. Learned counsel for the petitioner has brought attention of the Court and
conveyed that the facts are almost similar except the date and criminal case
number and therefore, by treating the present Special Criminal Application No.
3508 of 2012 as a lead matter by a common judgement and order, both the
petitions are to be dealt with and to be disposed of on the following line.
7\. A bare perusal of number of complaints filed by respondent no. 2 indicates
that basically the complaint is filed under Section 7(i) and by violating
that, it is alleged that offence under Section 16(1)(a)(i) of the Act has been
committed and based upon this complaint, the learned Magistrate has issued
summons to the petitioners. As stated above, original accused no. 1 to 4 who
were joined in the Criminal Case referred to above have approached this Court
by way of Special Criminal Application No. 319 of 2003 as stated above wherein
after hearing all the parties to the petition, this Hon'ble Court has
specifically come to the conclusion that arraigning all the persons as accused
who were infact the consumers of Mirinda bottle are unnecessarily dragged in
the prosecution and therefore, by examining the complaint from that angle, the
petition came to be disposed of and allowed. A reference is required to be
made of the relevant paragraph of the said order hereunder:
"4. Heard Shri Khambolja, learned advocate appearing on behalf  Page 5 of 45
HC-NIC Page 5 of 45 Created On Sat Sep 24 02:42:12 IST 2016  R/SCR.A/3508/2012
CAV JUDGMENT of the petitioners and Shri Satyam Chhaya, learned advocate
appearing on behalf of the original complainant. This Court has also
considered the documents on record as well as the impugned Complaints, which
cannot be sustained for a moment so far as the petitioners are concerned. It
is required to be noted that as such the petitioners were the consumer of
Mirinda bottle and in fact they made the Complaint with respect to
adulteration in the Mirinda bottle and in fact they were the complainant but
still for whatsoever reason they are arraigned as an accused. By no stretch of
imagination it can be said that the petitioners were the accused under the
provisions of the Prevention of Food Adulteration Act. This Court fails to
appreciate how the complainant and/or consumer who made the grievance with
respect to adulteration can be arraigned as an accused. The learned advocate
appearing on behalf of the original complainant is also not in a position to
satisfy the Court how the petitioners can be arraigned as an accused for the
offence under the provisions of the Prevention of Food Adulteration Act. It
appears that arraigning the petitioners herein as accused, who were in fact
the consumer of Mirinda bottle and even the complainant also demonstrates the
non­ application of mind by the sanctioning authority and the original
complainant­concerned Food Inspector of A.M.C. Even the learned Magistrate has
also erred in taking cognizance of the offence/complaint against the
petitioners and has mechanically issued the summons/process against the
petitioners. Under the circumstances, this is a fit case to exercise the
powers under Section 482 of the Code of Criminal Procedure and to quash and
set aside the impugned Complaints qua the applicants.
5\. In view of the above, the present application succeeds and the impugned
Complaints, being Criminal Case No. 155/2002 and 156/2002 pending in the Court
of learned Metropolitan Magistrate, Ahmedabad filed by the Food Inspector,
Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation are hereby quashed and set aside so far as the
petitioners­original accused nos. 1 to 4 are concerned. However, the same
shall be without prejudice to the rights and contentions of  Page 6 of 45 HC-
NIC Page 6 of 45 Created On Sat Sep 24 02:42:12 IST 2016  R/SCR.A/3508/2012
CAV JUDGMENT the Food Inspector, Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation and the
prosecution against other accused persons, which shall be considered by the
concerned Magistrate in accordance with law and on its on merits at the
earliest.
6\. With this, the present petition is allowed with exemplary cost, which is
quantified at Rs. 10,000/­, which shall be initially paid by Ahmedabad
Municipal Corporation. However, it will be open for Ahmedabad Municipal
Corporation to recover the same from the concerned Food Inspector­original
complainant after following the due procedure as required. The aforesaid
amount of Rs. 10,000/­ shall be deposited with the Registry of this Court
within a period of four weeks from today and on such deposit, Registry is
directed to transmit the same to the Gujarat High Court Legal Services
Committee. Rule is made absolute to the aforesaid extent."
8\. Learned senior counsel appearing for the petitioner Shri S.V. Raju has
contended that the complaint is nothing but a clear example of abuse of
process of law and therefore, contended that in any circumstance, the Court
should not encourage such an attempt. While contending, the learned counsel
has drawn the attention to the notice dated 26.07.2002 attached to the
petition wherein it has been stated in paragraph no. 4 of the said complaint
that the Mirinda bottle 500ml was purchased vide order dated 26.06.2002 vide
bill no. 8414. In the said notice, it was informed that bottle was found to be
of inferior of quality and request for replacement was refused. It appears
that notice came to be issued with a demand of Rs. 3 lacs by way of damage
sustained failing which, appropriate legal action either civil or criminal
proceedings would be initiated and by drawing attention to this notice, the
learned  Page 7 of 45 HC-NIC Page 7 of 45 Created On Sat Sep 24 02:42:12 IST
2016  R/SCR.A/3508/2012 CAV JUDGMENT counsel for the petitioner stated that
this is nothing but an ill­motive to excavate something from the petitioner
which tantamounts to bea sheer abuse of process of law. The learned counsel
has further drawn an attention of the Court to the reply which has been given
refuting to the allegations and when the said reply was given by the
petitioner on 31.07.2002, on 06.08.2002 Mr. Sureshbhai Chimanlal Shah, partner
of accused no. 1 has written a letter to Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation by
asserting that the petitioner had committed an offence punishable under the
provisions of the Prevention of Food Adulteration Act. The background of this
circumstance appears to have led respondent no.2 to file a complaint in a
routine manner without observing the mandatory requirement of the statute and
by contending this, the counsel for the petitioner requested the Court to
quash the said complaint which is nothing but an abuse of process of law.
9\. It has also been brought to the notice of Court that public analyst report
is dated 30.09.2002 and based upon it, the complaint came to be filed. It was
contended by the counsel for the petitioner that the best before use period of
substance in question is three months and without visualizing this,
straightaway complaint came to be filed by respondent no.2 in an irresponsible
manner and therefore, filing of the complaint at the dictum of the somebody is
nothing but the abuse of process of law.
10\. The learned counsel for the petitioner further submitted that the  Page 8
of 45 HC-NIC Page 8 of 45 Created On Sat Sep 24 02:42:12 IST 2016
R/SCR.A/3508/2012 CAV JUDGMENT date of expiry of impugned bottle is three
months and therefore, valuable right of re­examination by the Central Food
Laboratory has been lost on account of malafide action on the part of the
respondent Food Inspector who caused delay. It was also contended that the
sample which has been collected is also not as per the mandatory procedure
prescribed under the Act and therefore, such fatal irregularity which has been
committed would go to the route and therefore, the complaint deserves to be
quashed. It was also contended by counsel for the petitioner that in absence
of any laboratory being certified for analysis under Section 23(1­A) (ee) and
in absence of prescribed and valid method of analysis under Section 23(1­A)
(hh) of the Act on the date of alleged offence, the prosecution could not have
been launched on the basis of public analyst report and keeping this in mind,
the counsel submitted that sanction to prosecute being granted is also bad in
law, suffers from vice of non application of mind and therefore, based upon
it, the case in question deserves to be quashed. It was also contended by the
counsel that sanctioning authority before granting sanction ought to have
appreciated that the sample in question was under the control of original
accused no. 1 to 4 for almost period of more than two months and it is only
pursuant to their pressure, sanction to prosecute was granted without
application of mind. It was also brought to the notice that analysis report on
record does not indicate that the seized soft drink was injuries to health or
causing prejudice to the purchaser and therefore, in absence of such report of
said nature,  Page 9 of 45 HC-NIC Page 9 of 45 Created On Sat Sep 24 02:42:12
IST 2016  R/SCR.A/3508/2012 CAV JUDGMENT the complaint could not have been
entertained and therefore, issuance of process dated 10.01.2003 is also
required to be quashed.
11\. The learned senior counsel Mr. SV Raju for the petitioner has mainly
further submitted that complaint could have been filed by the purchasers and
Food Inspector has no right to file the complaint in such an irregular manner.
It was also contended that there is a clear violation of a right available to
the petitioner under Section 13(2) of the Act and that being so the complaint
is required to be quashed in the interest of justice. It was also contended
that complaint is filed on 13.12.2002 and the notice as referred to above
indicates that bottle came to be purchased on 26.06.2002 and therefore, the
complaint being generated after almost a period of more than six months, the
same ought not to have been entertained and no summons could have been issued.
The counsel submitted that even the first analysis appears to be after almost
a period of three months essentially after the best before use period and
therefore, every step after "best before use period " would be of no avail and
complaint could not have been filed. This has clearly violated statutory
provision contained under Section 13(2) of the Act conferred upon petitioners.
The learned counsel has drawn attention of Rule 32 (I) as also Rule 32(f) and
contended that the complaint is nothing but a sheer abuse of process of law.
It was also contended that report of analyst merely indicates 'fungus' which
on account of several reasons can be developed and report of analysis is not
indicating any remote  Page 10 of 45 HC-NIC Page 10 of 45 Created On Sat Sep
24 02:42:12 IST 2016  R/SCR.A/3508/2012 CAV JUDGMENT circumstance reaching to
the said conclusion that any offence is committed and therefore, the counsel
submitted that the complaint in question is nothing but clear abuse of process
of law.
12\. The learned counsel has further submitted that Food Inspectors are
entrusted with the powers under Section 10 of the Act and has contended that
the manner and method of collecting samples which is stipulated under Section
11 of the Act is also not observed and, therefore, the counsel submitted that
the entire procedure which has been adopted leading to filing of the complaint
is ex­facie erroneous and impermissible and therefore, the complaint based
upon it deserves to be quashed.
13\. The learned counsel has drawn attention to various statutory provisions
contained under the Act. Sections 10, 11, 12 and 20 and has contended that
there is a complete departure from the mandatory procedure established by law
by filing complaint against the petitioner in this particular manner and
therefore, learned counsel submitted that this is nothing but sheer abuse of
process of law and complaint in question is required to be quashed in the
interest of justice.
14\. Learned counsel for the petitioner has relied upon various decisions in
case of [i] Pepsico India Holdings Private Limited versus Food Inspector and
another reported in 2011(1) SCC 176, [ii]  Page 11 of 45 HC-NIC Page 11 of 45
Created On Sat Sep 24 02:42:12 IST 2016  R/SCR.A/3508/2012 CAV JUDGMENT in
case of Medicamen Biotech Limited and another versus Rubina Bose, Drug
Inspector reported in 2008(7) SCC 196, [iii]in case of Gupta Chemicals Private
Limited and others versus State of Rajasthan and another reported in 2010 (7)
SCC 735, [iv] in case of Northern Mineral Limited versus Union of India and
another reported in 2010 (7) SCC 726 and [v] in case of Saumindra Bhattacharya
versus State of Bihar reported in 2010 (15) SCC 338 and two decisions of this
Hon'ble Court delivered in Special Criminal Application No. 539 of 2011 dated
27.04.2012 as well as Criminal Misc. Application No. 10732 of 2010 dated
22.10.2010 and various other decisions to which, the Court would like to deal
with later on at an appropriate stage and by citing these citations, the
counsel for the petitioner submitted that complaint is nothing but a sheer
abuse of process of law requires to be quashed in the interest of justice. No
other submissions are made.
15\. To oppose this petition, the learned advocate Mrs. VD Nanavaty appearing
on behalf of the respondent No. 2­ company has contended that the petition is
brought at a much belated stage by the petitioner and therefore, no
interference be made in exercise of inherent jurisdiction. The learned
advocate has drawn attention to the averments contained in the petition memo
and has conveyed that the contentions which have been raised now before the
Court are not reflected in pleadings of the petition and therefore, in absence
of any pleadings at the initial  Page 12 of 45 HC-NIC Page 12 of 45 Created On
Sat Sep 24 02:42:12 IST 2016  R/SCR.A/3508/2012 CAV JUDGMENT stage, while
bringing the petition, it is not permissible for the counsel of the petitioner
to further improve the case. The learned advocate further contended that there
is an unexplained delay in approaching the Court by way of present petition.
The sample was collected in the year 2002 and the petition is filed after
almost a period of 10 years in 2012 with no explanation of delay and
therefore, the learned advocate submitted not to interfere in exercise of
jurisdiction.
16\. It was also contended that sample which was collected was of glass bottle
and the period of "best before use" is six months and therefore, there is no
irregularity of any nature in either collecting the sample or sending the
sample and the learned advocate has stated that the report of public analyst
is to be treated as final and therefore, the prosecution cannot be throttled
at initial stage itself. So far the specific contention of section 13(2) of
the Act is concerned, she has submitted that the petitioners themselves have
not availed said opportunity and therefore, now they cannot be allowed to
agitate as they have waived their right contained under Section 13(2) of the
Act.
17\. The learned counsel by referring to the contents of affidavit­in­ reply
filed by respondent no.2 has stated that proper procedure has been complied
with and the prosecution been filed after getting proper sanction from the
authority. The counsel further submitted that there are disputed questions of
facts which may not be made a subject matter of  Page 13 of 45 HC-NIC Page 13
of 45 Created On Sat Sep 24 02:42:12 IST 2016  R/SCR.A/3508/2012 CAV JUDGMENT
exercise of power under Section 482 of the Code of Criminal Procedure or
Article 226 of the Constitution of India and therefore, counsel requested not
to interfere with the petition and prosecution be allowed to proceed further
with the case. The learned counsel has drawn attention of the Court to various
decisions and stated that this is not the case in which, the inherent
jurisdiction is allowed to exercised at the instance of the petitioners. The
learned counsel has placed reliance on the decision in case of [I]Tulsiram
versus State of Madhya Pradesh reported in AIR 1985 SC 299, [ii] Rajendra S/o
Ram Ratan & Ors. Versus State of M.P. reported in AIR 1999 SC 1757, [iii]
Adhiraj Amar Kanhaiyalal versus State of Maharashtra reported in 2010 (3)
Crimes 841 ( Bom)­ 2010 (112) BomLR 3366, [iv] Ajay Modi versus State of
Gujarat­ 2015 (0) AIJEL­HC 233693, [v] Pepsi Co. India Holdings Ltd. vs. State
of Gujarat reported in 2015 (2) GLH 556, [vi] Hotel Savera Through ITS
Partners vs. State of Gujarat­ 2015 (O) AIJEL­HC 233167 and several other
decisions to which, this Court would like to deal with it at an appropriate
stage, but to summarize, the contentions of the learned advocate in substance
is that power under Section 482 of the Code of Criminal Procedure and
jurisdiction under Article 226 of the Constitution of India may not be
exercised in the background of this peculiar facts and circumstance and by
referring to affidavit­in­reply has opposed the petition and requested the
Court not to grant the relief and to dismiss the petition.
Page 14 of 45 HC-NIC Page 14 of 45 Created On Sat Sep 24 02:42:12 IST 2016
R/SCR.A/3508/2012 CAV JUDGMENT
18\. Having heard learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respective
parties and before dealing with the respective contentions of both the sides,
few statutory provisions are worth to be taken note of. Under Section 9 of the
Act, Food Inspector to be nominated by way of Notification and Sub section (1)
of Section 10 of the Act prescribes powers of Food Inspector to take samples
of any article of Food from any persons selling such article, any person who
is in course of conveying or delivering or preparing to deliver such article
to a purchaser or consignee; a consignee after delivery of any such article to
him and to send such sample for analysis to the public analyst for the local
area within which such sample has been taken. While entrusting the said power
of collecting sample the Food Inspectors are authorized to enter and inspect
any place where the article is either manufactured or sold for sale or stored
for manufacture of other article for food under Sib Section 4 of Section 10 of
the Act, the power of seizure and to keep in the safe custody is also
entrusted and various other powers are also invested in Food Inspector to
carry out the object for which the act is brought. Section 11 of the Act
prescribed the procedure to be followed by the Food Inspector who takes the
sample for food analysis and the specific procedure is prescribed.
19 Section 12 of the Act permits the purchase of any article of food other
than the food inspector from having such article analyzed by the public
analyst on payment of such fees as may be prescribed and from  Page 15 of 45
HC-NIC Page 15 of 45 Created On Sat Sep 24 02:42:12 IST 2016
R/SCR.A/3508/2012 CAV JUDGMENT receiving from the public analyst a report of
his analysis.
20\. Section 13 of the Act is very relevant for the purpose of consideration
of this Court. Section 13 is reproduced hereinafter.
13\. Report of public analyst :­ 2[(1) The public analyst shall deliver, in
such form as may be prescribed, a report to the Local (Health) Authority of
the result of the analysis of any article of food submitted to him for
analysis.
(2) On receipt of the report of the result of the analysis under sub­section
(1) to the effect that the article of food is adulterated, the Local (Health)
Authority shall, after the institution of prosecution against the person from
whom the sample of the article of food was taken and the person, if any, whose
name, address and particulars have been disclosed under section 14A, forward,
in such manner as may be prescribed, a copy of the report of the result of the
analysis to such person or persons, as the case may be, informing such person
or persons that if it is so desired, either or both of them may make an
application to the court within a period of ten days from the date of receipt
of the copy of the report to get the sample of the article of food kept by the
Local (Health) Authority analysed by the Central Food Laboratory.
21\. Section 14 of the Act deals with an issue of warranty to be given by
manufacturers, distributors and dealers and Section 16 of the Act is the
provision whereby penalties have been prescribed for commission of offence the
Act. Section 17 of the Act deals with the offence by the  Page 16 of 45 HC-NIC
Page 16 of 45 Created On Sat Sep 24 02:42:12 IST 2016  R/SCR.A/3508/2012 CAV
JUDGMENT companies and Section 20 of the Act deals with cognizance and trial
of offences which are initiated by the authority. A specific power is
conferred upon the Court under Section 20(A) of the Act to implead
manufacturer and other related persons and Section 23 of the Act invested the
powers to frame the rules. The relevant clause of Section 23 of the Act are
also worth to be taken note of is issue issue entangled in the proceedings
about it and therefore, the same is reproduced hereinafter.
> "23. Power of the Central Government to make rules:­ The Central Government
> may, after consultation with the Committee and after previous publication by
> notification in the Official Gazette, make rules to carry out the provisions
> of this Act.
Provided that consultation with the Committee may be dispensed with if the
Central Government is of the opinion that circumstances have arisen which
render it necessary to make rules without such consultation, but, in such a
case, the Committee shall be consulted within six months of the making of the
rules and the Central Government shall take into consideration any suggestions
which the Committee may make in relation to the amendment of the said rules.]
xxxxxxxxxxx 1[(ee)defining the laboratories where samples of article of food
or adulterants may be analysed by public analysts under this Act;] xxxxx
xxxxxxx 1[(hh) defining the methods of analysis;] Part II is dealing with the
functions of Central Food Laboratory in the  Page 17 of 45 HC-NIC Page 17 of
45 Created On Sat Sep 24 02:42:12 IST 2016  R/SCR.A/3508/2012 CAV JUDGMENT
Prevention of Food Adulteration Rules, 1955. Rule 4 ((0 of the said Rules
reads as under:
(9) The manuals of method of analysis brought out by Ministry of Health and
Family Welfare shall be adopted for analyzing the samples of food articles.
However, in case the method for analyzing any parameter is not available in
these manuals, the method of analysis prescribed in the AOAC/ISO/Person's/
JACOB/IUPAC/Food Chemicals Codex/BIS/Woodmen/Winton­ Winton/Joslyn shall be
adopted. Further, in case of non­availability of method of analysis in these
manuals, the method prescribed in other standard published literature or
publication shall be adopted. 21.1 Rule 9 of the Rules deals with the duties
of Food Inspector and Rule 9(A) of the Rules is again prescribing the schedule
in which the sample to be sent for analysis. Part V of the Rules deals with
sealing, fastening and despatch of samples wherein Rule 14 as prescribed the
manner and method of sending sample for analysis. Rule 15 postulates the
bottles or container to be labelled and addressed. Rule 16 of the Rules
prescribes the manner of packing and sealing the samples. Rule 17 of the Rules
prescribed the manner of despatching containers of samples. Rule 22 of the
Rules deals with quantity of sample sent to be considered as sufficient. Rule
32 of the Rules 32 deals with a prepackeged food to carry a label. Rule 32(f)
and Rule 32(g) reproduced as under:
(f) Date of manufacture or packing­ The date, month and year in which the
commodity is manufactured,  Page 18 of 45 HC-NIC Page 18 of 45 Created On Sat
Sep 24 02:42:12 IST 2016  R/SCR.A/3508/2012 CAV JUDGMENT packed or pre­packed,
shall be given on the label:
Provided that the month and the year of manufacture, packing or pre­packing
shall be given if the "Best before Date" of the product is more than three
months;
Provided further that in case any package contains commodity which has a short
shelf life of less than three months, the date, month and year in which the
commodity is manufactured or prepared or prepacked shall be mentioned on the
label.
(g) Use by date/recommended last consumption date/expiry date shall be given,­
22\. Now in the backdrop of aforesaid statutory provisions the contentions of
both sides are to be dealt with hereunder. The learned counsels to support
their contentions referred to above relied upon some of the decisions of which
some relevant decisions are dealt with in background hereunder
23\. The counsel for the petitioner has relied upon the decision in case of
Shivkumar alias Shiwalamal Narumal Chugwani versus State of Maharashtra
reported in 2010 (2) FAC 239 wherein the Bombay High Court in consideration of
the effect of provision contained under Section 13(2) of the Act held that
violation thereof would be fatal to the prosecution in that particular
background of facts, the High Court of Bombay Nagpur Bench had quashed the
complaint. The counsel further relied upon another decision in case of
Girishbhai Dahyabhai Shah versus C.C. Jani and another reported in 2009 (15)
SCC 64 wherein  Page 19 of 45 HC-NIC Page 19 of 45 Created On Sat Sep 24
02:42:12 IST 2016  R/SCR.A/3508/2012 CAV JUDGMENT also the counsel has drawn
the attention that the Hon'ble Apex Court has dealt with Section 13(2) of the
Act and also the effect of Section 16(1)(a)(i) of the Act and has held that
deprivation of the option of Section 13(2) of the Act would be prejudicial and
lead to serious flow and in the background of that fact, the Hon'ble Apex
Court has quashed the proceedings and the learned counsel has conveyed that
this decision has been delivered in case from this very Court. Yet in another
decision reported in 2012 (2) FAC 504­ M/s Marico Ltd. Versus State & V.N.
Gangrade and another wherein the Madhya Pradesh High Court vide its Indoor
Bench has delivered the decision on the issue pertaining to violation of
Section 13(2) of the Act and held that it causes a serious prejudice to the
accused and thereby the complaint in respect to that case is quashed. The
learned counsel for the petitioner further relied upon in another decision
reported in 2012 (2) FAC 441­ ITC Ltd & Others versus The State of Madhya
Pradesh, wherein also in similar background, the complaint when came to be
filed after long lapse of date of expiry of sample, the Court quashed the
proceedings. Similarly, in another decision pointed out in case of Rameshwar
Dayal versus State of U.P. reported in 1995 supplementary 4(SCC) 659, wherein
the Hon'ble Apex Court while dealing with the provision of Section 13(2) of
the Act has held that non­supply of report of public analyst to the accused is
resulting in serious prejudice to him and in that particular case even the
conviction came to be set aside. The counsel further relied upon the decision
in case of Saumindra Bhattacharya versus  Page 20 of 45 HC-NIC Page 20 of 45
Created On Sat Sep 24 02:42:12 IST 2016  R/SCR.A/3508/2012 CAV JUDGMENT State
of Bihar reported in 2010 (15) SCC 338 wherein also the Hon'ble Apex Court
held that even assuming that some report of public analyst pun on record
during pendency of complaint before this factor will not cure the definition
of Section 20 of the Act and while coming to the conclusion the Apex Court has
examined the vigour of Section 11 which postulates the procedure to be
observed by the Food Inspector. Further in case of Northern Mineral Limited
versus Union of India and another reported in 2010 (7) SCC 726 while dealing
with the statutory right of the accused, to get sample tested and analyzed by
the Central Insecticide Laboratory, the Hon'ble Apex Court has considered the
shelf­life of the produce/article and has held that shelf­life of the article
is very relevant. The Hon'ble Apex Court has found in that case that valuable
right of the accused for his defence is defeated and has conveyed that
continuance of criminal prosecution would be nothing but futile exercise which
may tantamount to be an abuse of process of Court.
24\. The counsel has also relied upon a further decision in case of Gupta
Chemicals Private Limited and others versus State of Rajasthan and another
reported in 2010 (7) SCC 735 wherein while dealing with the statutory right of
the accused under Section 24 of the Insecticide Act 1968 to get the seized
sample examining Central Insecticides Laboratory denial thereof or delay
thereof was seriously taken into consideration and the Court held that under
Section 482 of  Page 21 of 45 HC-NIC Page 21 of 45 Created On Sat Sep 24
02:42:12 IST 2016  R/SCR.A/3508/2012 CAV JUDGMENT the Code of Criminal
Procedure powers ought to have been exercised by the High Court. The same is
the case that a decision delivered by the Apex Court in case of Medicamen
Biotech Limited and another versus Rubina Bose, Drug Inspector reported in
2008 (7) SCC 196 wherein also relying upon the observations made, the counsel
submitted that the proceedings on the case on hand are also stayed which can
tantamount to be an abuse of process of Court. In another decision unreported
decision delivered by this Court in Special Criminal Application No. 539 of
2011 dealing with the issue pertaining to shelf­ life of an article, the Court
has considered the effect of Section 13(2) of the Act in consideration of an
issue of shelf­life of a product and thereby Court has quashed the criminal
complaint and by citing of this decision, the learned counsel for the
petitioner has requested the Court to quash the proceedings which are
questioned in the present petition. It was also pointed out that in yet
another case Pepsico India Holdings Private Limited versus Food Inspector and
another reported in 2011 (1) SCC 176, the Hon'ble Apex Court in the background
of case found that sample was not sent to Forensic Laboratory in the absence
of valid method of analysis being prescribed in the Laboratory since no
examination was found, the Court quashed the proceedings and therefore, by
citing this decision and taken the Court to the background of the facts of
this case, a request is made to allow the petition and quash the criminal
proceedings lodged by the complainant. No other submissions are made.
Page 22 of 45 HC-NIC Page 22 of 45 Created On Sat Sep 24 02:42:12 IST 2016
R/SCR.A/3508/2012 CAV JUDGMENT
25\. The learned counsel for the respondent has relied upon several decisions
to withstand the contentions raised by the petitioner and stated not to
exercise inherent jurisdiction contained under Section 482 of Code of Criminal
Procedure as also extraordinary jurisdiction under Article 226 of the
Constitution of India. The counsel submitted that this is not a case to
exercise extraordinary jurisdiction.
26\. The learned counsel for respondent has submitted the compilation while
relying upon various decisions which are being narrated one by by herein is
the first decision which has been relied upon by the counsel in case of
Tulsiram versus State of M.P. reported in 1985 SCC 299, wherein while dealing
with Sections 11 and 13 of the Prevention of Food Adulteration Act, the
Hon'ble Apex Court has examined the effect of Rule 9(A) of the Prevention of
Food Adulteration Rule 1955. The Hon'ble Apex Court examined the effect of a
word "immediately" contained in Rule 9(A) and has held that this immediately
word conveys the sense of continuity rather than urgency and non compliance
with said Rule 9(A) is not fatal. It was observed by the Apex Court that what
must be done is to forward the report to person from whom sample was taken at
the earliest so as to exercise the statutory right under Section 32(2) and
then the Court observed that non compliance with Rule 9(A) is not fatal. In
another decision in case of Rajendra S/o Ram Ratan & Ors versus State of M.P
reported in AIR  Page 23 of 45 HC-NIC Page 23 of 45 Created On Sat Sep 24
02:42:12 IST 2016  R/SCR.A/3508/2012 CAV JUDGMENT 1999 SC 1757 again the said
has come up for examination before the Hon'ble Apex Court wherein also similar
view is taken and similar view is taken and the Hon'ble Court opined that word
"immediately" conveys reasonable despatch and promptitude intending to convey
sense of continuity rather than of urgency. The learned counsel yet in another
case reported in case of Adhiraj Amar Kanhaiyalal versus State of Maharashtra
­2010 (112) BomLR 3366 Nagpur Bench of the Bombay High Court has dealt with
the issue related to Section 13(2) of the Act and has held that while
considering the factor of sending statutory notice as contemplated by Section
13(2) of the Act the nature of product shall have to be taken into
consideration and it cannot be assumed that any prejudice is caused to accused
if the articles gets damage after the prescribed period. The said decision has
also dealt with the word "best before" as defined under Rule 32(m) and has
held that "best before" is that the period during which the product shall
remain fully marketable and shall retain in specific qualities for which tacit
or express claims have been made.
27\. The learned counsel has further relied upon yet another decision of this
Court in case of Ajay Modi versus State of Gujarat­ 2015 (0) AIJEL­HC 233693
wherein the Hon'ble Court has stated that complaint is not required to be
quashed and set aside on the ground that because of delay in filing the
complaint, the accused would suffer great prejudice as sample must have become
decomposed and/or deteriorated and/or  Page 24 of 45 HC-NIC Page 24 of 45
Created On Sat Sep 24 02:42:12 IST 2016  R/SCR.A/3508/2012 CAV JUDGMENT would
have become incapable of being analyzed mere allegation of prejudice would not
be sufficient to quash the complaint that too in exercise of powers u/s 482 of
the CrPC and therefore, while dealing with the Sections 7, 13(2) as also the
Hon'ble Court has refrained from quashing the criminal proceedings. The said
decision having been bearing in mind the present proceedings the relevant
paragraphs worth to be taken note of. Hence, reproduced hereinafter.
> "[5.0] Heard learned advocates appearing on behalf of the respective parties
> at length.
> At the outset it is required to be noted that the present application has
> been preferred by the applicant herein original accused to quash and set
> aside the impugned criminal proceedings / criminal complaint for the offence
> punishable under the PFA Act, in exercise of powers under Section 482 of the
> CrPC. The impugned criminal proceedings/criminal complaint are requested to
> be quashed and set aside mainly on the ground that there is an inordinate
> delay in filing the complaint and therefore, the valuable right of the
> accused to get the sample tested by the Central Laboratory conferred under
> Section 13(2) of the PFA Act has been taken away and/or the same has been
> violated and/or the grave prejudice shall be caused to the applicant as
> because of the delay and by the passage of time the sample must have been
> deteriorated and/or decomposed. The impugned complaint is also requested to
> be quashed and set aside on the ground of limitation i.e. on the ground that
> the impugned complaint has been lodged/filed after a period of three years.
> Therefore, the short question which is posed for consideration of this Court
> is whether on the aforesaid ground the impugned criminal complaint for the
> offences under the PFA Act is required to be quashed and set aside in
> exercise of powers under Section 482 of the CrPC?"
[5.1] Now, so far as the first ground on which the impugned complaint is
requested to be quashed and set aside i.e. delay in filing the complaint and
the prejudice that may be caused to the accused and/or taking away the right
of the accused to get the sample tested through Central Laboratory as
conferred under Section 13(2) of the PFA Act is  Page 25 of 45 HC-NIC Page 25
of 45 Created On Sat Sep 24 02:42:12 IST 2016  R/SCR.A/3508/2012 CAV JUDGMENT
concerned, the submissions seems to be attractive but has no substance. At the
outset it is required to be noted that as such no application has been
submitted by the accused and/or any request is made by the accused before the
learned Magistrate to send the sample to the Central Laboratory. Therefore, as
such the accused has not exercised the option which is conferred under Section
13(2) of the PFA Act of getting the sample examined through the Central
Laboratory. Therefore, the contention on behalf of the applicant that a
valuable right of the applicant to get the sample tested through Central
Laboratory has been taken away cannot be accepted.
[5.2] Now, so far as the contention on behalf of the applicant that because of
the delay in filing the complaint i.e. in the present case of 11 years, the
valuable right of the applicant to get the sample tested through Central
Laboratory as conferred under Section 13(2) of the PFA Act has been taken away
and/or has been violated and/or a great prejudice would be caused to the
applicant, as because of such delay the sample might have become decomposed
and/or deteriorated is concerned, the aforesaid are only on presumption and
assumption. Unless and until any request is made to send the sample to the
Central Laboratory, by exercising the option as conferred under Section 13(2)
of the PFA Act and unless and until the sample is sent to the Central
Laboratory and thereafter, after analysis it is opined by the Central
Laboratory that as such the sample has deteriorated and/or decomposed, on such
presumption and assumption that it must have been deteriorated and/or
decomposed, the criminal proceedings cannot be quashed in exercise of powers
under Section 482 of the CrPC and that too for the offences under the PFA Act.
In the case of Ajit Prasad Ramakishan Singh (Supra), the Honble Supreme Court
considering its earlier judgment in the case of Sukhmal Gupta (Supra) has
specifically observed and held that it was wrong for Courts to decide, without
any data, that the sample would decompose and become incapable of analysis and
that no useful purpose would be served in sending the sample for analysis to
the Director, when there was no evidence that the sample had so deteriorated
at the time of service of summons as to be incapable of being analysed. It is
further observed that in absence of evidence, that the sample has so
deteriorated as to be incapable of analysis, such a presumption would not be
justified.  Page 26 of 45 HC-NIC Page 26 of 45 Created On Sat Sep 24 02:42:12
IST 2016  R/SCR.A/3508/2012 CAV JUDGMENT [5.3] Identical question came to be
considered by the Andhra Pradesh High Court in the case of M/s. Hyderabad
Beverages Private Limited (Supra) and in paras 70 to 73, 75, 76 to 78, the
Andhra Pradesh High Court has observed and held as under:
> 70\. In Ajit Prasad Ramakishan Singh (1972 Cri LJ 1026), the Supreme Court,
> following its earlier judgment in Sukhmal Gupta, held that it was wrong for
> Courts to decide, without any data, that the sample would decompose and
> become incapable of analysis and that no useful purpose would be served in
> sending the sample for analysis to the Director, when there was no evidence
> that the sample had so deteriorated at the time of service of summons as to
> be incapable of being analysed. In the absence of evidence, that the sample
> has so deteriorated as to be incapable of analysis, such a presumption would
> not be justified.
> 71\. An enquiry, as to whether the sample has decomposed, whether it is fit
> or unfit for analysis etc., is a statutory function required to be
> discharged by the Central Food laboratory and not for this Court, in
> proceedings under Section 482, Cr.P.C. to presume that every case of delay
> in furnishing a copy of the Public Analyst's report, beyond the shelf life
> of the product, would either result in the sample becoming decomposed or
> cause prejudice to the accused.
> 72\. As held by the Apex Court in Ajit Prasad Ramkishan Singh (1972 Cri LJ
> 1026), Sukhmal Gupta, Charanji Lal (1984 Cri LJ
> 15) and T. V. Usman and this Court in G. S. Prasad (2003 Cri LJ (NOC) 231)
> and Gangaiahnaidu Rama Krishna unless it is shown that the sample has been
> rendered unfit for analysis and the reasons therefor are on account of the
> delay in sending the sample for analysis and thereby prejudice has been
> caused to the accused entitling them to acquittal, mere delay in furnishing
> the report of the public analyst to the accused would not, by itself, be
> fatal to the case of the prosecution.
Page 27 of 45
HC-NIC Page 27 of 45 Created On Sat Sep 24 02:42:12 IST 2016
R/SCR.A/3508/2012 CAV JUDGMENT
73\. As held in T. V. Usman (AIR 1994 SC 1818), there is no time limit
prescribed for launching prosecution. It is relevant to note that a time limit
is prescribed, under Section 9A of the P.F.A. Act, for sending the second
sample for analysis to the Public Analyst, a time limit of 10 days was
prescribed under Rule 9(j), prior to its omission with effect from 4­1­1977,
for supplying a copy of the report of the public analyst, Rule 22 provides
that the quantity of food to be sent for analysis must be as prescribed in the
table to the rule and Rule 7(3) requires the Public Analyst to submit his
report within 45 days. All these statutory provisions were held in Tulsiram
(1984 Cri LJ 1731), Dalchand v. Municipal Corporation, Bhopal AIR 1983 SC 303
: (1983 Cri LJ 448), State of Kerala v. Alassery Mohammed, (1978) 2 SCC 386 :
(1978 Cri LJ 925) and T. V. Usman (AIR 1974 SC 1818), to be directory and not
mandatory. When no time limit is prescribed under the Act for launching
prosecution and certain statutory provisions and rules, wherein time limit is
prescribed, were held to be directory and not mandatory, it cannot be said
that mere delay in furnishing a copy of the report of the public analyst to
the accused, by itself and without any thing more, is fatal to the
prosecution.
75\. Negligence of officials in discharging their functions, and in not
promptly furnishing a copy of the report of the public analyst to the accused,
must not result in offenders involved in adulteration of the food/seed being
permitted to go scot free, unless prejudice is established. Legitimate
prosecution should not be scuttled on mere technicalities, in the absence of
any proof of prejudice to the accused.
76\. In Dalchand (1983 Cri LJ 448), the Supreme Court held thus :
".......It is well to remember that quite often many rules, though couched in
language which appears to be imperative, are no more than mere instructions to
those entrusted with the task of discharging statutory duties for public
benefit. The negligence of those to whom public duties are entrusted cannot by
statutory interpretation be  Page 28 of 45 HC-NIC Page 28 of 45 Created On Sat
Sep 24 02:42:12 IST 2016  R/SCR.A/3508/2012 CAV JUDGMENT allowed to promote
public mischief and cause public inconvenience and defeat the main object of
the statute........." (Emphasis supplied)
77\. Since the eventual test is one of prejudice, which is to be established,
on the facts and circumstances of each case, by way of evidence adduced before
the learned Magistrate, it is not for this Court, under Section 482, Cr.P.C.
to infer or presume that even in case of delay, say of a few days, beyond the
shelf life of the product, and in the absence of reasonable explanation for
the delay in furnishing a copy of the report of the Public Analyst, the
accused is prejudiced and his right, under Section 13(2) of the P.F.A. Act and
Section 16(2) of the Seeds Act, is violated.
78\. In exercise of its jurisdiction under Section 482, Cr.P.C. this Court
does not take upon itself the task of examining the evidence or to record an
independent finding that the delay in furnishing a copy of the public
analyst's report has resulted in prejudice to the accused. Whether the delay
is insignificant or inordinate, whether the delay is attributable to lapses of
the prosecution in making available a copy of the public analyst's report,
whether on account of the delay in making the report available, the right of
the accused under Section 13(2) of the P.F.A. Act or Section 16(2) of the
Seeds Act has been rendered illusory as the sample sent to the Central
Laboratory is found unfit for analysis due to decomposition by passage of time
or for any other reason attributed to lapses on the part of the prosecution,
whether inordinate delay in sending the sample for analysis has, by passage of
time, rendered the sample "adulterated" are all matters to be examined by the
learned Magistrate, in the facts and circumstances of each case, on the basis
of the evidence adduced. Delay, by itself and without anything more, cannot
form the basis for the High Court, in exercise of its jurisdiction under
Section 482, Cr.P.C. to quash the criminal proceedings."
[5.4] Identical question came to be considered by the learned Single Judge in
the recent decision in the case of Pepsi Co. India Holdings  Page 29 of 45 HC-
NIC Page 29 of 45 Created On Sat Sep 24 02:42:12 IST 2016  R/SCR.A/3508/2012
CAV JUDGMENT Ltd. thro its Officer Vinay Mathur & Anr. (Supra) and after
considering the aforesaid decision of the Andhra Pradesh High Court and after
considering other decisions of the Honble Supreme Court as well as other High
Courts on the issue, the learned Single Judge refused to quash and set aside
the complaint for the offences punishable under the PFA Act which was
requested to be quashed and set aside on the ground of delay in filing the
complaint and which was requested to be quashed and set aside on the grounds
on which the impugned criminal complaint is requested to be quashed and set
aside. [5.5] There cannot be any presumption that the sample must have been
deteriorated and/or decomposed and/or would have become incapable of being
analyzed. Whether delay, in furnishing the copy of the report of Public
Analyst and/or delay in filing the complaint, has resulted in prejudice to the
accused and whether the prosecution has furnished a satisfactory explanation
for the delay, are all matter of evidence to be examined by the trial Court
and not for this Court in proceedings under section 482 of the CrPC. As per
the catena of decisions of the Honble Supreme Court as well as this Court, the
power under Section 482 of the CrPC are to be exercised sparingly with
circumspection and in rarest of rare cases. Such a power is not to be
exercised to stifle legitimate prosecution. It is required to be noted that in
the present case as such the Public Analyst, Food and Drugs, Vadodara had
infact found the percentage of iodine in the sample/salt much less than the
prescribed limit under the PFA Act. Therefore, the impugned complaint is not
required to be quashed at this stage in exercise of powers under Section 482
of the CrPC solely on assumption and presumption that the sample might/must
have been deteriorated and/or decomposed and/or incapable of being analyzed
now.
[5.6] Similarly, the impugned complaint is not required to be quashed and set
aside on the ground that because of the delay in filing the complaint, the
accused would suffer great prejudice as the sample must have become decomposed
and/or deteriorated and/or would have become incapable of being analyzed. The
prejudice is not required to be pleaded only but actual prejudice if any
caused is to be demonstrated and established. As observed hereinabove, mere
allegation of prejudice would not be sufficient to quash the complaint that
too in exercise of powers under Section 482 of the CrPC.  Page 30 of 45 HC-NIC
Page 30 of 45 Created On Sat Sep 24 02:42:12 IST 2016  R/SCR.A/3508/2012 CAV
JUDGMENT
28\. The learned counsel for the respondent has relied upon one another more
decision delivered by this Court in case of Pepsi Co. India Holdings Ltd. and
Ors. Versus State of Gujarat and Ors. reported in 2015 (2) GLH 556, the Court
had dealt with the issue related to "best before" use. The Court in the said
decision has at length examined various aspects and issues raised almost
similar which are raised here on case on hand and has considered and observed
that mere delay in furnishing the report of public analyst by itself be not a
ground that the accused has caused prejudice. Simply because the sample has
not been sent to Central Laboratory. The Court has considered the various
authorities while dealing with the relevant statutory provision coupled with
the Rules pertaining to it and has not entertained the petition and since the
observations are worth to be taken into consideration. The same are being
reproduced hereinafter.
> "22. In cases where the delay on the part of the prosecution had resulted in
> the sample, sent for analysis to the Central Food Laboratory, being rendered
> unfit for analysis, it would undoubtedly cause prejudice to the accused and
> would amount to denial of his valuable right under Section 13(2) of the Act.
> There could also be other cases where the delay on the part of the
> prosecution could be found to have caused prejudice. Whether or not delay in
> furnishing of the copy of the report of the public analyst has caused
> prejudice to the accused are matters, which can only be decided, on the
> basis of the evidence, by the trial Court, and not by this Court, in
> exercise of its inherent powers under Section 482 of the Code or writ
> jurisdiction under Article 226 of the Constitution.
23 In the present case, the Central Food Laboratory found the sample fit for
analysis and after certifying the sample fit for analysis, it found the sample
adulterated. Once there is a certificate of the Central Food Laboratory  Page
31 of 45 HC-NIC Page 31 of 45 Created On Sat Sep 24 02:42:12 IST 2016
R/SCR.A/3508/2012 CAV JUDGMENT certifying that the sample was fit for analysis
then the burden would shift on the accused to establish by leading cogent
evidence that the sample had become unfit and the report of the Central Food
Laboratory would have no evidentiary value. Whether a sample has, on expiry of
its, "Best Before date or its shelf life, become unfit for analysis on account
of its being decomposed, is a matter of evidence and not a matter of inference
in the proceedings under Section 482 of the Cr.P.C. It is only when a sample
is sent for analysis, can the Central Laboratory on examination certify
whether or not the sample has been decomposed rendering it unfit for analysis.
24.. In Charanji Lal v. State of Punjab (1984) 1 SCC 329 : (1984 Cri LJ 15),
the Supreme Court held thus :­ (Para 15 of Cri LJ) "...........Decomposition
is not something which always takes place suddenly or immediately. It is a
process which in some cases may be slow and in some cases quick. Decomposition
cannot be noticed or ascertained by the Court when it inspects the part of the
sample under sub­section (2­ B) of Section 13 to ascertain whether the mark
and seal or fastening are intact and the signature or thumb impression, as the
case may be, not tampered with, before despatching that part to the Central
Food Laboratory. Even with the mark and seal intact, and the signature or
thumb impression, as the case may be, not tampered with, the sample might have
already decomposed or decomposing might have already commenced. Whether a
sample has decomposed or not can only be ascertained when the sealed container
is opened in the Central Food Laboratory for the purpose of
analysis.............. (Emphasis supplied)"
25\. In T. V. Usman v. Food Inspector, Tellicherry Municipality AIR 1994 SC
1818 samples of six packets of pan supari were sent for analysis to the Public
Analyst, who opined that the sample contained Sacharin, an artificial
sweetener, and was thus adulterated. Both the vendor and the manufacturer were
acquitted by the Magistrate, on the ground that Rule 7(3) was violated
inasmuch as the Local (Health) Authority had received the Form III report
beyond 45 days. The learned Magistrate also held that Rule 9(a) was not
properly complied with. On appeal the Kerala High Court, while confirming the
acquittal of the manufacturer, convicted the vendor. The Kerala High Court
held that Rule 7(3) was not mandatory and non­compliance thereof needed to be
considered only if prejudice was established. Following the judgment of the
Supreme Court in Tulsiram (1984 Cri LJ 1731), the Kerala High Court held that
Rule 9(a) was also not mandatory, but was directory. On appeal, the Supreme
Court held thus : (At Pp. 1821­22, para 14 of AIR) "In Rule 7(3) no doubt the
expression "shall" is used but it must be borne in mind that the Rule deals
with stages prior to launching the prosecution and it is also clear that by
the date of receipt of the report of the Public Analyst the case is not yet
instituted in the Court and it is only on the basis of this report of the
Public Analyst that the concerned authority has to take a decision whether to
institute a prosecution or not.There is no  Page 32 of 45 HC-NIC Page 32 of 45
Created On Sat Sep 24 02:42:12 IST 2016  R/SCR.A/3508/2012 CAV JUDGMENT time
limit prescribed within which the prosecution has to be instituted and when
there is no such limit prescribed then there is no valid reason for holding
the period of 45 days as mandatory. Of course that does not mean that the
Public Analyst can ignore the time limit prescribed under the Rules. He must
in all cases try to comply with the time limit. But if there is some delay, in
a given case, there is no reason to hold that the very report is void and on
that basis to hold that even prosecution cannot be launched. May be, in a
given case, if there is inordinate delay, the Court may not attach any value
to the report but merely because the time limit is prescribed, it cannot be
said that even a slight delay would render the report void or inadmissible in
law. In this context it must be noted that Rule 7(3) is only a procedural
provision meant to speed up the process of investigation on the basis of which
the prosecution has to be launched. No doubt, sub­sec. (2) of S. 13 of the Act
confers valuable right on the accused under which provision the accused can
make an application to the Court within a period of 10 days from the receipt
of copy of the report of Public Analyst to get the samples of food analysed in
the Central Food Laboratory and in case the sample is found by the said
Central Food Laboratory unfit for analysis due to decomposition by passage of
time or for any other reason attributable to the lapses on the side of
prosecution, that valuable right would stand denied. This would constitute
prejudice to the accused entitling him to acquittal but mere delay as such
will not per se be fatal to the prosecution case even in cases where the
sample continues to remain fit for analysis in spite of the delay because the
accused is in no way prejudiced on the merits of the case in respect of such
delay. Therefore it must be shown that the delay has led to the denial of
right conferred under Section 13 (2) and that depends on the facts of each
case and violation of the time limit given in sub­rule (3) of Rule 7 by itself
cannot be a ground for the prosecution case being thrown out."
(Emphasis supplied)."
26\. I may quote a very exhaustive decision rendered by the learned Single
Judge of the Andhra Pradesh High Court on the subject in the case of M/s
Hyderabad Beverages Private Limited etc. Vs. State of A.P. 2006 Criminal Law
Journal 3988.
70\. In Ajit Prasad Ramakishan Singh (1972 Cri LJ 1026), the Supreme Court,
following its earlier judgment in Sukhmal Gupta, held that it was wrong for
Courts to decide, without any data, that the sample would decompose and become
incapable of analysis and that no useful purpose would be served in sending
the sample for analysis to the Director, when there was no evidence that the
sample had so deteriorated at the time of service of summons as to be
incapable of being analysed. In the absence of evidence, that the sample has
so deteriorated as to be incapable of analysis, such a presumption would not
be justified.  Page 33 of 45 HC-NIC Page 33 of 45 Created On Sat Sep 24
02:42:12 IST 2016  R/SCR.A/3508/2012 CAV JUDGMENT
71\. An enquiry, as to whether the sample has decomposed, whether it is fit or
unfit for analysis etc., is a statutory function required to be discharged by
the Central Food laboratory and not for this Court, in proceedings under
Section 482, Cr.P.C. to presume that every case of delay in furnishing a copy
of the Public Analyst's report, beyond the shelf life of the product, would
either result in the sample becoming decomposed or cause prejudice to the
accused.
72\. As held by the Apex Court in Ajit Prasad Ramkishan Singh (1972 Cri LJ
1026), Sukhmal Gupta, Charanji Lal (1984 Cri LJ 15) and T. V. Usman and this
Court in G. S. Prasad (2003 Cri LJ (NOC) 231) and Gangaiahnaidu Rama Krishna
unless it is shown that the sample has been rendered unfit for analysis and
the reasons therefor are on account of the delay in sending the sample for
analysis and thereby prejudice has been caused to the accused entitling them
to acquittal, mere delay in furnishing the report of the public analyst to the
accused would not, by itself, be fatal to the case of the prosecution.
73 As held in T. V. Usman (AIR 1994 SC 1818), there is no time limit
prescribed for launching prosecution. It is relevant to note that a time limit
is prescribed, under Section 9­A of the P.F.A. Act, for sending the second
sample for analysis to the Public Analyst, a time limit of 10 days was
prescribed under Rule 9(j), prior to its omission with effect from 4­1­ 1977,
for supplying a copy of the report of the public analyst, Rule 22 provides
that the quantity of food to be sent for analysis must be as prescribed in the
table to the rule and Rule 7(3) requires the Public Analyst to submit his
report within 45 days. All these statutory provisions were held in Tulsiram
(1984 Cri LJ 1731), Dalchand v. Municipal Corporation, Bhopal AIR 1983 SC 303
: (1983 Cri LJ 448), State of Kerala v. Alassery Mohammed, (1978) 2 SCC 386 :
(1978 Cri LJ 925) and T. V. Usman (AIR 1974 SC 1818), to be directory and not
mandatory. When no time limit is prescribed under the Act for launching
prosecution and certain statutory provisions and rules, wherein time­limit is
prescribed, were held to be directory and not mandatory, it cannot be said
that mere delay in furnishing a copy of the report of the public analyst to
the accused, by itself and without any thing more, is fatal to the
prosecution.
74\. On what basis can Courts presume that expiry of the "best before" date or
expiry of the shelf­life of the product would, by itself, and without anything
more, result in rendering the sample unfit for analysis? The shelf life of
products vary from one to the other. While in certain cases the shelf life may
be as small as one week, in certain others the shelf life could be as long as
a few years. Similarly, the delay in making available a copy of the report of
the public analyst may also vary. The delay could range from a period of a few
days, after the expiry of the shelf life or the "Best Before" date, to even a
few years. Can the same yardstick be applied in all cases to  Page 34 of 45
HC-NIC Page 34 of 45 Created On Sat Sep 24 02:42:12 IST 2016
R/SCR.A/3508/2012 CAV JUDGMENT hold that the delay in making available a copy
of the public analyst report, beyond the shelf life of the product, has caused
prejudice to the accused and denied him his valuable right under Section
13(2)? Even in cases where the report of the public analyst is made available
within time, the accused may not exercise his right to have the sample sent
for analysis to the Central Laboratory. In such cases, the report of the
public analyst is required to be accepted. Can a different yardstick be
applied to cases, where despite a copy of the report of the public analyst
being furnished immediately after the shelf life of the product has expired
and the accused does not exercise his right to have the sample sent for
analysis to the Central Laboratory, to hold that delay by itself has caused
prejudice to the accused? Answers, thereto, have necessarily to be in the
negative.
75\. Negligence of officials in discharging their functions, and in not
promptly furnishing a copy of the report of the public analyst to the accused,
must not result in offenders involved in adulteration of the food/seed being
permitted to go scot free, unless prejudice is established. Legitimate
prosecution should not be scuttled on mere technicalities, in the absence of
any proof of prejudice to the accused.
76\. In Dalchand (1983 Cri LJ 448), the Supreme Court held thus :­ ".......It
is well to remember that quite often many rules, though couched in language
which appears to be imperative, are no more than mere instructions to those
entrusted with the task of discharging statutory duties for public benefit.The
negligence of those to whom public duties are entrusted cannot by statutory
interpretation be allowed to promote public mischief and cause public
inconvenience and defeat the main object of the statute........." (Emphasis
supplied)
77\. Since the eventual test is one of prejudice, which is to be established,
on the facts and circumstances of each case, by way of evidence adduced before
the learned Magistrate, it is not for this Court, under Section 482, Cr.P.C.
to infer or presume that even in case of delay, say of a few days, beyond the
shelf life of the product, and in the absence of reasonable explanation for
the delay in furnishing a copy of the report of the Public Analyst, the
accused is prejudiced and his right, under Section 13(2) of the P.F.A. Act and
Section 16(2) of the Seeds Act, is violated.
78\. In exercise of its jurisdiction under Section 482, Cr.P.C. this Court
does not take upon itself the task of examining the evidence or to record an
independent finding that the delay in furnishing a copy of the public
analyst's report has resulted in prejudice to the accused. Whether the delay
is insignificant or inordinate, whether the delay is attributable to lapses of
the prosecution in making available a copy of the public analyst's report,
whether on account of the delay in making the report available, the right of
the accused under Section 13(2) of the P.F.A. Act or Section 16(2) of  Page 35
of 45 HC-NIC Page 35 of 45 Created On Sat Sep 24 02:42:12 IST 2016
R/SCR.A/3508/2012 CAV JUDGMENT the Seeds Act has been rendered illusory as the
sample sent to the Central Laboratory is found unfit for analysis due to
decomposition by passage of time or for any other reason attributed to lapses
on the part of the prosecution, whether inordinate delay in sending the sample
for analysis has, by passage of time, rendered the sample "adulterated" are
all matters to be examined by the learned Magistrate, in the facts and
circumstances of each case, on the basis of the evidence adduced. Delay, by
itself and without anything more, cannot form the basis for the High Court, in
exercise of its jurisdiction under Section 482, Cr.P.C. to quash the criminal
proceedings."
29\. Almost similar view is also reiterated by this Court in yet in another
decision in case of Hotel Savera versus State of Gujarat - 2015 ())
AIJE:L­HC­233167, wherein also it has been held that expiry of shelf­life of
an article would not automatically render the sample unfit for analysis and
therefore, merely because the expiry date of the sample has gone by itself, it
cannot be said that any prejudice is caused to the accused. Rule 32 has also
been relied upon by the Court. There are several decisions which have been
relied upon by the counsel for the respondent reported in case of State of
Haryana versus Bhajanlal & others­ 1992 (suppl) (1) SCC 335, on the issue of
exercise of extraordinary jurisdiction and has contended that reliability of
allegations are not to eb examined in exercise of extraordinary jurisdiction
in nature. It was also further relied upon by a decision reported in case of
State of Haryana versus Brij Lal Mittal and others - AIR 1998 SC 2327 as well
as the decision delivered by Delhi High Court in case of Neerja Bhargava
versus State of NCT Delhi on the issue of exercise of extraordinary
jurisdiction under Section 482 of the Code of Criminal Procedure delivered on
28.09.2015. and then contended not to exercise  Page 36 of 45 HC-NIC Page 36
of 45 Created On Sat Sep 24 02:42:12 IST 2016  R/SCR.A/3508/2012 CAV JUDGMENT
the extraordinary jurisdiction in favour of the petitioner. The learned
counsel has strongly contended that this is not a fit case to exercise
extraordinary jurisdiction under Section 482 of the Code of Criminal
Procedure.
30\. Having heard learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respective
parties and having gone through the record in detail, few facts are emerging
from the record.
[a] The original complaint is filed in the year 2002 and all through out the
petitioners have remained silent on their statutory rights which are now being
insisted upon, the present petition has been filed on 12.12.2012 for seeking
quashment of the complaint which is immediately after the disposal of the
earlier petition at the instance of another accused persons dated 02.12.2012
and all through out it appears that the petitioners have evaded the main case
in trial court.
[b] It is also appearing from para 5 of the said decision that there is a
specific direction given in the said order dated 02.12.2012 to proceed further
with the case at the earliest on merits by the concerned learned Magistrate in
accordance with law.
[c] It is also emerged from the record that some of the issues  Page 37 of 45
HC-NIC Page 37 of 45 Created On Sat Sep 24 02:42:12 IST 2016
R/SCR.A/3508/2012 CAV JUDGMENT which are raised of prejudice coupled with
technical defence are appearing to be part of defence which can be gone into
by the concerned court at an appropriate stage.
[d] It is also appeared from the record that the complaint has been filed
after getting specific sanction to prosecute from the competent authority and
filed along with public analyst report dated 30.09.2002.
[e] it is also appearing from the record that the complaint in question has
not been stayed in so far as present petitioners are concerned and therefore,
it appears that all through out during passage of time the petitioners have
evaded the concerned Court to proceed further with the trial.
[f] It is also emerging from the record that public analyst report has
reflected a fungus growth and this report was very much attached to the
complaint and therefore on account of that circumstance that fungus growth was
visible is a matter of trial to be examined in the context of provisions of
the Act. [g] It is also emerging from the record that the notice has been
given not by the petitioner dated 06.08.2002 but it has been given by the
partner of Digjam Retail Show Room Shoppers Paradise, C.G. Road, Ahmedabad and
therefore, all through out the  Page 38 of 45 HC-NIC Page 38 of 45 Created On
Sat Sep 24 02:42:12 IST 2016  R/SCR.A/3508/2012 CAV JUDGMENT petitioners have
shielded themselves from being prosecuted and have waited for an opportunity
to thwart the case against them which has been visualized by filing the
petition after disposal of the earlier petition. This conduct is also worth to
be taken note of while exercising inherent jurisdiction.
31\. Prima facie it appears that ample opportunity was available to the
petitioners through out the entire period to agitate the issue which is now
being agitated about violation of statutory provisions contained under Section
13(2) of the Act. All these issues could have been agitated at relevant point
of time. The conduct of the petitioners as stated above is just to drag on the
prosecution and therefore, considering this overall set of circumstance and in
view of decision delivered by various Courts, this Court is of the opinion
that this is not a fit case to exercise extraordinary inherent jurisdiction at
this stage of the proceedings. The delay which has been tried to be projected
is on the contrary at the instance of the petitioners and therefore, this
aspect is allowed to be agitated by the petitioners at an appropriate stage of
the trial of the case. The Court is of the opinion that the observations and
the proposition of law propounded by the aforesaid decision reported in 2015
by coordinate bench of this Court, there appears to be no special circumstance
from deviating and therefore, no reason to interfere with the complaint in
question.
Page 39 of 45 HC-NIC Page 39 of 45 Created On Sat Sep 24 02:42:12 IST 2016
R/SCR.A/3508/2012 CAV JUDGMENT 32 In view of the above position coupled with
the law laid down on the issue more particularly by Coordinate bench of this
Court, Court is of the opinion not to exercise extraordinary jurisdiction in
favour of the petitioners. It is found that there are several disputed
questions of facts which are required to be gone into an appropriate stage and
in exercise of inherent jurisdiction, the court is not suppose to undertake a
mini trial or make any roving inquiry and therefore, extraordinary
jurisdiction is not permitting this Court to exercise in the background of
these peculiar facts of case. The defence has been projected by the
petitioners can well be examined during the course of trial and therefore, in
opinion of the Court, this is not a fit case to exercise extraordinary
jurisdiction.
33\. While coming to this conclusion, some of the decisions have been
considered by the Court and the relevant extract of the proposition contained
in these decisions are narrated very briefly hereinafter. 33.1 In case of
Taramani Parakh versus State of Madhya Pradesh and others reported in 2015
(11) SCC 260, wherein paragraphs 10 reproduced as under:
> "10. The law relating to quashing is well settled. If the allegations are
> absurd or do not make out any case or if it can be held that there is abuse
> of process of law, the proceedings can be quashed but if there is a triable
> case the court does not go into reliability or otherwise of the version or
> the counter­version. In matrimonial cases, the courts have to be cautious
> when omnibus allegations are  Page 40 of 45 HC-NIC Page 40 of 45 Created On
> Sat Sep 24 02:42:12 IST 2016  R/SCR.A/3508/2012 CAV JUDGMENT made
> particularly against relatives who are not generally concerned with the
> affairs of the couple. We may refer to the decisions of this Court dealing
> with the issue."
33.2 In case of HMT Watches Limited versus M.A. Abida and another reported in
2015 (11) SCC 776, paragraphs 11, 12 and 13 reproduced as under:
> "11. In Suryalakshmi Cotton Mills Ltd. v. Rajvir Industries Ltd., this Court
> has made the following observations explaining the parameters of
> jurisdiction of the High Court in exercising its jurisdiction under Section
> 482 of the Code of Criminal Procedure: ( SCC pp. 685­87, paras 17 & 22) "17.
> The parameters of jurisdiction of the High Court in exercising its
> jurisdiction under Section 482 of the Code of Criminal Procedure is now well
> settled. Although it is of wide amplitude, a great deal of caution is also
> required in its exercise. What is required is application of the well­ known
> legal principles involved in the matter.
22\. Ordinarily, a defence of an accused although appears to be plausible
should not be taken into consideration for exercise of the said jurisdiction.
Yet again, the High Court at that stage would not ordinarily enter into a
disputed question of fact. It, however, does not mean that documents of
unimpeachable character should not be taken into consideration at any cost for
the purpose of finding out as to whether continuance of the criminal
proceedings would amount to an abuse of process of court or that the complaint
petition is filed for causing mere harassment to the accused. While we are not
oblivious of  Page 41 of 45 HC-NIC Page 41 of 45 Created On Sat Sep 24
02:42:12 IST 2016  R/SCR.A/3508/2012 CAV JUDGMENT the fact that although a
large number of disputes should ordinarily be determined only by the civil
courts, but criminal cases are filed only for achieving the ultimate goal,
namely, to force the accused to pay the amount due to the complainant
immediately. The Courts on the one hand should not encourage such a practice,
but, the proceedings which is otherwise genuine. The courts cannot also lose
sight of the fact that in certain matters, both civil proceedings and criminal
proceedings would be maintainable."
12\. In Rallis India ltd. v. Poduru Vidya Bhushan, this Court expressed its
views on this point as under: ( SCC p. 93, para 12) "12. At the threshold, the
High Court should not have interfered with the cognizance of the complaints
having been taken by the trial court. The High Court could not have discharged
the respondents of the said liability at the threshold. Unless the parties are
given opportunity to lead evidence, it is not possible to come to a definite
conclusion as to what was the date when the earlier partnership was dissolved
and since what date the respondents ceased to be the partners of the firm."
13\. In view of the law laid down by this Court as above, in the present case,
the High Court exceeded its jurisdiction by giving its opinion on disputed
questions of fact, before the trial Court. 33.3 In case of N. Soundaram versus
P.L. Pounraj And another reported in 2014 (1) SCC 616, paragraph 13 reproduced
as under:
"13. It is well settled by this Court in a catena of cases that the power
under Section 482 CrPC has to be exercised sparingly  Page 42 of 45 HC-NIC
Page 42 of 45 Created On Sat Sep 24 02:42:12 IST 2016  R/SCR.A/3508/2012 CAV
JUDGMENT and cautiously to prevent the abuse of process of any court and to
secure the ends of justice. [ See State of Haryana v. Bhajan Lal]. The
inherent power should not be exercised to stifle a legitimate prosecution. The
High Court should refrain from giving a prima facie decision unless there are
compelling circumstances to do so. Taking the allegations and the complaint as
they were, without adding or subtracting anything, if no offence was made out,
only then the adding or subtracting anything, if no offence was made out, only
then the High Court would be justified in quashing the proceedings in the
exercise of its power under Section 482 CrPC. [ See MCD V. Ram Kishan
Rohtagi.]. An investigation should not be shut out at the threshold if the
allegations have some substance. [ See Vinod Raghuvanshi V. Ajay Arora].
33.4 In Case of Teeja Devi Alias Triza Devi versus State of Rajasthan and
others reported in 2014 (15) SCC 221, paragraphs 4, 5 and 9 reproduced as
under:
> "4. In view of the nature of proposed order this Court has purposely avoided
> to go into the factual details and controversy between the parties. This
> would prevent prejudice to the appellant as well as to the accused persons
> in future because after hearing the parties we are of the firm view that the
> order of the High Court is not in accordance with law and in the facts of
> the case no interference should have been made with the investigation by the
> police by quashing the FIR.
5\. It has been rightly submitted by the learned counsel for the appellant
that ordinarily power under Section 482 CrPC should not be used to quash an
FIR because that amounts to interfering with the statutory power of the police
to investigate a cognizable offence in accordance with the provisions of CrPC.
As per law settled by a catena of judgements, if the allegations made in the
FIR prima facie disclose a cognizable offence, interference with  Page 43 of
45 HC-NIC Page 43 of 45 Created On Sat Sep 24 02:42:12 IST 2016
R/SCR.A/3508/2012 CAV JUDGMENT the investigation is not proper and it can be
done only in the rarest of rare cases where the court is satisfied that the
prosecution is malicious and vexatious.
9\. We have no hesitation in holding that in the facts of the case, the High
Court was not justified in interfering with the police investigation and
quashing the FIR. This is not at all a rare case. Without a thorough
investigation,it is not possible or proper to hold whether the allegations
made by the complainant are true or not. Hence the investigation should have
been allowed to continue so that on filing of the report under Section 173
CrPC the affected party could pursue its remedy against the report in
accordance with law. Keeping in view the fact that the criminal case was at
the stage of investigation by the police the High Court was not justified
inholding that the investigation of the impugned FIR is totally unwarranted
and that the same would amount to gross abuse of the process of the court. "
34\. From the above discussion and analysis of the background of fact, the
exercise of extraordinary inherent jurisdiction is not possible to be
exercised. Hence, both these petitions are dismissed hereby and interim
reliefs which have been granted stand vacated. It is expected that in view of
the earlier direction issued by this Court in cognate petition filed at the
instance of other accused persons who were discharged the main case which is
pending before the learned Trial Court be expeditiously dealt with and it is
needless to say that trial Court will examine all the defence of petitioners
in accordance with law, after granting appropriate opportunity.
35\. With these observations both petitions are disposed of. Rule is
discharged.
Page 44 of 45 HC-NIC Page 44 of 45 Created On Sat Sep 24 02:42:12 IST 2016
R/SCR.A/3508/2012 CAV JUDGMENT (A.J. SHASTRI, J.) niru*  Page 45 of 45 HC-NIC
Page 45 of 45 Created On Sat Sep 24 02:42:12 IST 2016
been allowed to continue so that on filing of the report under Section 173
CrPC the affected party could pursue its remedy against the report in
accordance with law. Keeping in view the fact that the criminal case was at
the stage of investigation by the police the High Court was not justified
inholding that the investigation of the impugned FIR is totally unwarranted
and that the same would amount to gross abuse of the process of the court. "
34\. From the above discussion and analysis of the background of fact, the
exercise of extraordinary inherent jurisdiction is not possible to be
exercised. Hence, both these petitions are dismissed hereby and interim
reliefs which have been granted stand vacated. It is expected that in view of
the earlier direction issued by this Court in cognate petition filed at the
instance of other accused persons who were discharged the main case which is
pending before the learned Trial Court be expeditiously dealt with and it is
needless to say that trial Court will examine all the defence of petitioners
in accordance with law, after granting appropriate opportunity.
35\. With these observations both petitions are disposed of. Rule is
1....Respondent(s)
================================================================ Appearance:
MR. SV RAJU SENIOR ADVOCATE WITH BHADRISH S RAJU, ADVOCATE  for the
Applicant(s) No. 1 - 2 MRS VD NANAVATI, ADVOCATE for the Respondent(s) No. 2
MR KP RAVAL ADDITIONAL PUBLIC PROSECUTOR for the Respondent(s)  No. 1
========================================================== CORAM: HONOURABLE
MR.JUSTICE A.J. SHASTRI Date : 23 /9 /2016  Page 1 of 45 HC-NIC Page 1 of 45
Created On Sat Sep 24 02:42:12 IST 2016  R/SCR.A/3508/2012 CAV JUDGMENT CAV
JUDGMENT
1\. The petitioners by way of present petitions have approached the Court for
quashing the complaint being Criminal Case No. 52 of 2002 pending before the
learned Chief Judicial Magistrate, Jamnagar as also the order dated 10.01.2003
whereby upon said complaint, process came to be issued.
2\. The background of facts leading to filing of the petition are that
original accused no. 1 in the complaint was engaged in the business of selling
of clothes and to facilitate the customers, utilized sweetened carbonated
water ( Leher - Miranda) 500 ml packed bottles. It was alleged in the
complaint that original accused nos. 2 to 4 are the partners of original
accused no. 1 whereas accused no. 5 is the seller of the impugned packed
bottles of sweetened carbonated water (Leher­ Miranda) 500 ml. The respondent
been allowed to continue so that on filing of the report under Section 173
CrPC the affected party could pursue its remedy against the report in
accordance with law. Keeping in view the fact that the criminal case was at
the stage of investigation by the police the High Court was not justified
inholding that the investigation of the impugned FIR is totally unwarranted
and that the same would amount to gross abuse of the process of the court. "
34\. From the above discussion and analysis of the background of fact, the
exercise of extraordinary inherent jurisdiction is not possible to be
exercised. Hence, both these petitions are dismissed hereby and interim
reliefs which have been granted stand vacated. It is expected that in view of
the earlier direction issued by this Court in cognate petition filed at the
instance of other accused persons who were discharged the main case which is
pending before the learned Trial Court be expeditiously dealt with and it is
needless to say that trial Court will examine all the defence of petitioners
in accordance with law, after granting appropriate opportunity.
35\. With these observations both petitions are disposed of. Rule is
1....Respondent(s)
================================================================ Appearance:
MR. SV RAJU SENIOR ADVOCATE WITH BHADRISH S RAJU, ADVOCATE  for the
Applicant(s) No. 1 - 2 MRS VD NANAVATI, ADVOCATE for the Respondent(s) No. 2
MR KP RAVAL ADDITIONAL PUBLIC PROSECUTOR for the Respondent(s)  No. 1
========================================================== CORAM: HONOURABLE
MR.JUSTICE A.J. SHASTRI Date : 23 /9 /2016  Page 1 of 45 HC-NIC Page 1 of 45
Created On Sat Sep 24 02:42:12 IST 2016  R/SCR.A/3508/2012 CAV JUDGMENT CAV
JUDGMENT
1\. The petitioners by way of present petitions have approached the Court for
quashing the complaint being Criminal Case No. 52 of 2002 pending before the
learned Chief Judicial Magistrate, Jamnagar as also the order dated 10.01.2003
whereby upon said complaint, process came to be issued.
2\. The background of facts leading to filing of the petition are that
original accused no. 1 in the complaint was engaged in the business of selling
of clothes and to facilitate the customers, utilized sweetened carbonated
water ( Leher - Miranda) 500 ml packed bottles. It was alleged in the
complaint that original accused nos. 2 to 4 are the partners of original
accused no. 1 whereas accused no. 5 is the seller of the impugned packed
bottles of sweetened carbonated water (Leher­ Miranda) 500 ml. The respondent
been allowed to continue so that on filing of the report under Section 173
CrPC the affected party could pursue its remedy against the report in
accordance with law. Keeping in view the fact that the criminal case was at
the stage of investigation by the police the High Court was not justified
inholding that the investigation of the impugned FIR is totally unwarranted
and that the same would amount to gross abuse of the process of the court. "
34\. From the above discussion and analysis of the background of fact, the
exercise of extraordinary inherent jurisdiction is not possible to be
exercised. Hence, both these petitions are dismissed hereby and interim
reliefs which have been granted stand vacated. It is expected that in view of
the earlier direction issued by this Court in cognate petition filed at the
instance of other accused persons who were discharged the main case which is
pending before the learned Trial Court be expeditiously dealt with and it is
needless to say that trial Court will examine all the defence of petitioners
in accordance with law, after granting appropriate opportunity.
35\. With these observations both petitions are disposed of. Rule is
1....Respondent(s)
================================================================ Appearance:
MR. SV RAJU SENIOR ADVOCATE WITH BHADRISH S RAJU, ADVOCATE  for the
Applicant(s) No. 1 - 2 MRS VD NANAVATI, ADVOCATE for the Respondent(s) No. 2
MR KP RAVAL ADDITIONAL PUBLIC PROSECUTOR for the Respondent(s)  No. 1
========================================================== CORAM: HONOURABLE
MR.JUSTICE A.J. SHASTRI Date : 23 /9 /2016  Page 1 of 45 HC-NIC Page 1 of 45
Created On Sat Sep 24 02:42:12 IST 2016  R/SCR.A/3508/2012 CAV JUDGMENT CAV
JUDGMENT
1\. The petitioners by way of present petitions have approached the Court for
quashing the complaint being Criminal Case No. 52 of 2002 pending before the
learned Chief Judicial Magistrate, Jamnagar as also the order dated 10.01.2003
whereby upon said complaint, process came to be issued.
2\. The background of facts leading to filing of the petition are that
original accused no. 1 in the complaint was engaged in the business of selling
of clothes and to facilitate the customers, utilized sweetened carbonated
water ( Leher - Miranda) 500 ml packed bottles. It was alleged in the
complaint that original accused nos. 2 to 4 are the partners of original
accused no. 1 whereas accused no. 5 is the seller of the impugned packed
bottles of sweetened carbonated water (Leher­ Miranda) 500 ml. The respondent
no. 2 had filed the complaint by alleging that the accused persons have
utilized sweetened carbonated water ( Leher­Miranda) 500 ml and by selling the
said articles being not satisfied with the standard prescribed under the
Prevention of Food Adulteration Act and Rules. On 05.09.2002 for the purpose
of analysis under the provisions of Prevention of Food Adulteration Act, 1954
( for short 'the Act') sent to the public analyst and on 30.09.2002, the
public analyst reported that sample collected which is examined did not
confirm to the standards of the Act and the Rules and on the basis of  Page 2
of 45 HC-NIC Page 2 of 45 Created On Sat Sep 24 02:42:12 IST 2016
R/SCR.A/3508/2012 CAV JUDGMENT such report of public analyst, a complaint came
to be filed against all the accused persons which complaint is questioned by
been allowed to continue so that on filing of the report under Section 173
CrPC the affected party could pursue its remedy against the report in
accordance with law. Keeping in view the fact that the criminal case was at
the stage of investigation by the police the High Court was not justified
inholding that the investigation of the impugned FIR is totally unwarranted
and that the same would amount to gross abuse of the process of the court. "
34\. From the above discussion and analysis of the background of fact, the
exercise of extraordinary inherent jurisdiction is not possible to be
exercised. Hence, both these petitions are dismissed hereby and interim
reliefs which have been granted stand vacated. It is expected that in view of
the earlier direction issued by this Court in cognate petition filed at the
instance of other accused persons who were discharged the main case which is
pending before the learned Trial Court be expeditiously dealt with and it is
needless to say that trial Court will examine all the defence of petitioners
in accordance with law, after granting appropriate opportunity.
35\. With these observations both petitions are disposed of. Rule is
1....Respondent(s)
================================================================ Appearance:
MR. SV RAJU SENIOR ADVOCATE WITH BHADRISH S RAJU, ADVOCATE  for the
Applicant(s) No. 1 - 2 MRS VD NANAVATI, ADVOCATE for the Respondent(s) No. 2
MR KP RAVAL ADDITIONAL PUBLIC PROSECUTOR for the Respondent(s)  No. 1
========================================================== CORAM: HONOURABLE
MR.JUSTICE A.J. SHASTRI Date : 23 /9 /2016  Page 1 of 45 HC-NIC Page 1 of 45
Created On Sat Sep 24 02:42:12 IST 2016  R/SCR.A/3508/2012 CAV JUDGMENT CAV
JUDGMENT
1\. The petitioners by way of present petitions have approached the Court for
quashing the complaint being Criminal Case No. 52 of 2002 pending before the
learned Chief Judicial Magistrate, Jamnagar as also the order dated 10.01.2003
whereby upon said complaint, process came to be issued.
2\. The background of facts leading to filing of the petition are that
original accused no. 1 in the complaint was engaged in the business of selling
of clothes and to facilitate the customers, utilized sweetened carbonated
water ( Leher - Miranda) 500 ml packed bottles. It was alleged in the
complaint that original accused nos. 2 to 4 are the partners of original
accused no. 1 whereas accused no. 5 is the seller of the impugned packed
bottles of sweetened carbonated water (Leher­ Miranda) 500 ml. The respondent
no. 2 had filed the complaint by alleging that the accused persons have
utilized sweetened carbonated water ( Leher­Miranda) 500 ml and by selling the
said articles being not satisfied with the standard prescribed under the
Prevention of Food Adulteration Act and Rules. On 05.09.2002 for the purpose
of analysis under the provisions of Prevention of Food Adulteration Act, 1954
( for short 'the Act') sent to the public analyst and on 30.09.2002, the
public analyst reported that sample collected which is examined did not
confirm to the standards of the Act and the Rules and on the basis of  Page 2
of 45 HC-NIC Page 2 of 45 Created On Sat Sep 24 02:42:12 IST 2016
R/SCR.A/3508/2012 CAV JUDGMENT such report of public analyst, a complaint came
to be filed against all the accused persons which complaint is questioned by
been allowed to continue so that on filing of the report under Section 173
CrPC the affected party could pursue its remedy against the report in
accordance with law. Keeping in view the fact that the criminal case was at
the stage of investigation by the police the High Court was not justified
inholding that the investigation of the impugned FIR is totally unwarranted
and that the same would amount to gross abuse of the process of the court. "
34\. From the above discussion and analysis of the background of fact, the
exercise of extraordinary inherent jurisdiction is not possible to be
exercised. Hence, both these petitions are dismissed hereby and interim
reliefs which have been granted stand vacated. It is expected that in view of
the earlier direction issued by this Court in cognate petition filed at the
instance of other accused persons who were discharged the main case which is
pending before the learned Trial Court be expeditiously dealt with and it is
needless to say that trial Court will examine all the defence of petitioners
in accordance with law, after granting appropriate opportunity.
35\. With these observations both petitions are disposed of. Rule is
