Delhi District Court
Manju vs Jaswinder Singh (Since Deceased ... on 2 June, 2016
Author: Vinod Kumar Meena
               IN THE COURT OF SH. VINOD KUMAR MEENA, 
         CIVIL JUDGE ­ 11 (CENTRAL), TIS HAZARI COURTS, DELHI
    CS No.  962/14
    Unique I.D. no.­ 02401C0439892007
    Manju 
    W/o Sh. Suresh Sehgal,
    R/o H. No. 157, LIG Flats,
    Pkt.3, Paschim Puri, 
    New Delhi.                                               ... Plaintiff 
                                     VERSUS
    1.  Jaswinder Singh (since deceased and
                            represented through LR)
         S/o not known
         R/o A­5B, Himgiri Enclave,
         Chander Vihar, Nitholi Extension,
         Nangloi, Delhi­110041. 
        Also known as:­
the possession of the suit property i.e. property bearing no. A5B, Himgiri
Enclave, Chander Vihar, Nitholi Extension, Nangloi, Delhi­41, also known as
B­10, Himgiri Enclave, Chander Vihar, Nitholi Extension, Nangloi, Delhi­41
measuring 50 sq. yrds, as shown in the red colour in the site plan Ex. PW1/20
and it is specifically directed to the defendants/LR of the defendants to hand
over the possession of the suit property i.e. property bearing no. A5B,
Himgiri Enclave, Chander Vihar, Nitholi Extension, Nangloi, Delhi­41 also
known as B­ 10, Himgiri Enclave, Chander Vihar, Nitholi Extension, Nangloi,
Delhi­41 measuring 50 sq. yrds as shown in the red colour in the site plan Ex.
PW1/20, to the plaintiff within a period of four weeks from today, failing of
which would entitle the plaintiff to have decree CS No. 962/14 Manju vs
Jaswinder Singh Page 37 of 38 executed in accordance with law.
10­ Cost of the suit including the Court fee which is annexed with the plaint,
is also awarded in favour of the plaintiff.
11­ Decree Sheet be drawn accordingly. File be consigned to Record Room.
    Announced in the open Court 
        Also known as:­
        B­10, Himgiri Enclave,
        Chander Vihar, Nitholi Extension,
        Nangloi, Delhi­110041
    (A) Smt. Inderjit Kaur       (LR of defendant no.1
                                  and originally defendant no.2)
          W/o Late Sh. Jaswinder Singh
    (B) Sh. Rajender Singh (LR of defendant no.1)
          S/o Late Jaswinder Singh
    CS No. 962/14
    Manju vs Jaswinder Singh                                          Page 1 of 38
     Both R/o (LR no. A & B of defendant no.1)
    A­5B, Himgiri Enclave,
    Chander Vihar, Nitholi Extension,
    Nangloi, Delhi­110041. 
    Also known as:­
    B­10, Himgiri Enclave,
    Chander Vihar, Nitholi Extension,
    Nangloi, Delhi­110041. 
    (C) Sh. Jagmit Singh (LR of defendant no.1)
    S/o Late Sh. Jaswinder Singh 
    (D)Sh. Ranjit Singh (LR of defendant no.1)
    S/o Late Sh. Jaswinder Singh
    Both R/o (LR no. C & D of Defendant no. 1)
    B­122, Chander Vihar, Nangloi,
    Delhi­110041.                                           ... Defendants
                               SUIT FOR POSSESSION
    Date of institution of case                       :        27.04.2007
    Reserved for judgment                             :        02.04.2016
    Date of pronouncement of judgment                 :        02.06.2016
                                   JUDGEMENT
1­ By this order, I shall dispose of the present suit bearing no. 962/14
(Unique ID bearing No. 02401C0439892007) filed by the plaintiffs against the
defendants for possession.
CS No. 962/14 Manju vs Jaswinder Singh Page 2 of 38 PLEADINGS OF PLAINTIFF 2­
It is case of the plaintiff that the plaintiff is the owner and landlady of
the property bearing no. A5B, Himgiri Enclave, Chander Vihar, Nitholi
Extension, Nangloi, Delhi­110041 also known as B­10, Himgiri Enclave, Chander
Vihar, Nitholi Extension, Nangloi, Delhi­ 110041 (hereinafter referred as suit
property). It is also averred by the plaintiff in the plaint that plaintiff
let out the suit property to the defendant no.1 on 01.02.2002 @ monthly rent
of Rs. 1,500/­ pm and the defendants are residing in the suit property and
have not made the payment of rent since may 2002. It is also averred by the
plaintiff in the plaint that the plaintiff filed eviction petition against the
defendant no.1 under Section 14 (1) (A) of the Delhi Rent Control Act,
however, same was dismissed by the Ld. ARC on the ground that suit property
does not fall within notified area of Delhi rent Control Act. It is also
averred by the plaintiff that defendant no.2(LR no.A of the defendant no.1)
filed a suit bearing no. 32/06/04; wherein it was stated by the defendant
no.2(LR no.A of the defendant no.1) that they gave a sum of Rs. 50,000/­ to
the plaintiff for remaining in possession of the suit property and without
making the payment of sum of Rs. 50,000/­, the possession of suit property
could not be given to the plaintiff. It is also averred by the plaintiff in
the plaint that without admitting the contents of the plaint, which was filed
by the CS No. 962/14 Manju vs Jaswinder Singh Page 3 of 38 defendant no.2(LR
no.A of the defendant no.1) in her suit bearing no.32/06/04, the plaintiff
deposited a banker's cheque in the sum of Rs. 50,000/­ and the suit was
decreed, however, the till date the said banker's cheque has not yet been
taken by the defendants for their ulterior motive. It is also averred by the
plaintiff in the plaint that plaintiff has terminated the tenancy of the
defendant no.1 vide legal notice dt. 14.09.2006 and the defendants are
unauthorised occupant in the suit property. It is further averred by the
plaintiff in the plaint that the possession of the suit property be granted to
the plaintiff.
PLEADINGS OF DEFENDANT 3­ It is pertinent to mention here that the application
under Order 6 Rule 17 of CPC was allowed vide order dated 23.08.2011 and
amended plaint was filed by the plaintiff, however, the defendants have not
filed the written statement to the amended plaint despite availing several
opportunities. In the written statement which was filed w.r.t original plaint,
it was contended by the defendants that the defendants have no concern with
the property bearing no. A5B, Himgiri Enclave, Chander Vihar, Nitholi
Extension, Nangloi, Delhi­ 110041\. It is also contended by the defendants
that they have entered into an agreement with Sh. S. S. Manjeet Singh M/s.
Punjab Properties vide agreement dt. 10.01.2001. Other contents of the plaint
have been denied through the written statement filed w.r.t CS No. 962/14 Manju
vs Jaswinder Singh Page 4 of 38 earlier/unamended plaint.
It is pertinent to mention here that plaint was amended vide order dt.
23.08.2011 and the defendant was given an opportunity to file written
statement, however, despite repeated opportunities, the defendants have not
filed amended written statement to amended plaint.
ISSUES 4­ After the completion of pleadings, following issues were framed on
16.12.2011:­
1) Whether the plaintiff has any right, title and interest in the suit
property bearing no. A­5­B, Himgiri Enclave, Chander Vihar, Nitholi Extension,
Nangloi, Delhi­110041? (OPP)
2) Whether the plaintiff is entitled to a decree of possession of the suit
property? (OPP)
3) Relief.
PLAINTIFF'S EVIDENCE 5­ In support of her case, plaintiff has examined herself
as PW2 and Sh. Suresh Sehgal as PW­1. PW­2 has led her evidence CS No. 962/14
Manju vs Jaswinder Singh Page 5 of 38 by way of affidavit wherein she
reiterated the contents of the plaint on oath.
6­ In their defence, LR of defendants have examined Sh. Rajender Singh as
DW­1. DW­1 has deposed in consonance with the contents of his written
statement.
7­ Final arguments have been heard on behalf of both the parties and the
pleadings as well as evidence and all the annexed & exhibited documents,
record and written arguments are carefully perused and all the issues are
decided as follows:­ ISSUEWISE FINDINGS Issue no.1 & 2:­ (1) Whether the
plaintiff has any right, title and interest in the suit property bearing no.
A­5­B, Himgiri Enclave, Chander Vihar, Nitholi Extension, Nangloi,
Delhi­110041? (OPP) and issue no. (2) Whether the plaintiff is entitled to a
decree of possession of the suit property? (OPP) 8­ As far as issue no. 1& 2
are concerned, the same are being decided together as these issues involve a
common and interconnected question of facts and law.
CS No. 962/14 Manju vs Jaswinder Singh Page 6 of 38 Before proceeding ahead
with deciding the abovementioned issues, the Court deem it fit to deal,
firstly the contentions raised by the defendants in the written statement
which was filed w.r.t earlier/unamended plaint, on the ground that the suit
property is bearing no. B­10, Himgiri Enclave, Chander Vihar, Nitholi
Extension, Nangloi, Delhi­110041 and not A5B Himgiri Enclave, Chander Vihar,
Nitholi Extension, Nangloi, Delhi­110041 and the property bearing no. A5B
Himgiri Enclave, Chander Vihar, Nitholi Extension, Nangloi, Delhi­110041 and
B­10 Himgiri Enclave, Chander Vihar, Nitholi Extension, Nangloi, Delhi­110041
are different properties. To this, it is observed by the Court that the
plaintiff filed the amended plaint wherein it was pleaded by the plaintiff
that the suit property bearing no. A5B, Himgiri Enclave, Chander Vihar,
Nitholi Extension, Nangloi, Delhi­110041 is also known as B­10, Himgiri
Enclave, Chander Vihar, Nitholi Extension, Nangloi, Delhi­110041 and the suit
property was given on rent to the defendant no.1 on 01.02.2002 at monthly rate
of rent to Rs. 1500/­ per month.
At this stage, the Court deem it fit to mention here that no written statement
to controvert the facts as pleaded by the plaintiff in the amended plaint, has
been filed by or on behalf of the defendants. Now the question arises as to
whether, if the facts are not denied by CS No. 962/14 Manju vs Jaswinder Singh
Page 7 of 38 the defendants through the written statement or the same have
been evasively denied, then the same has deemed to be admitted or not. To
this, the court deem it fit to mention here that the fact which has not been
denied by the defendant in written statement has to be treated as admitted in
terms of Order 8 Rule 5 of CPC. It is also pertinent to mention here that
Hon'ble High Court of Delhi has categorically dealt with the point where the
facts have not been specifically denied by the defendant in written statement
in the case of Smt. Asha kappor vs Hari Om Sharma CM(M) No. 885/10 dated of
judgment 05.08.2010. The relevant paras are quoted here as under ;
> "...16. Order VIII Rule 3, 4 and 5 of the Code of Civil Procedure (for short
> as „Code‟) read as under;
> "3. Denial to be specific.­ It shall not be sufficient for a defendant in
> his written statement to deny generally the ground alleged by the plaintiff,
> but the defendant must deal specifically with each allegation of fact of
> which he does not admit the truth, except damages.
> 4\. Evasive denial­ Where a defendant denies an allegation of fact in the
> plaint, he must not do so evasively, but answer the point of substance.
> Thus, if it is alleged that he received a certain sum of money, it shall not
> be sufficient to deny that he received that particular amount, but he must
> deny that he received that sum or any part thereof, or else set out how much
> he received. And if an allegation is made with diverse circumstances, it
> shall not be sufficient CS No. 962/14 Manju vs Jaswinder Singh Page 8 of 38
> to deny it along with those circumstances.
> 5\. Specific denial­[(1)] Every allegation of fact in the plaint, if not
> denied specifically or by necessary implication, or stated to be not
> admitted in the pleading of the defendant, shall be taken to be admitted
> except as against a person under disability;
> Provided that the Court may in its discretion require any fact so admitted
> to be proved otherwise than by such admission.
> (2) Where the defendant has not filed a pleading, it shall be lawful for the
> Court to pronounce judgment on the basis of the fact contained in the
> plaint, except as against a person under a disability, but the Court may, in
> its discretion, require any such fact to be proved. (3) In exercising its
> discretion under the proviso to sub­ rule (1) or under sub­rule (2), the
> Court shall have due regard to the fact whether the defendant could have, or
> has, engaged a pleader.
> (4) Whenever a judgment is pronounced under this rule, a decree shall be
> drawn up in accordance with such judgment and such decree shall bear the
> date on which the judgment was pronounced.]"
> 17\. The effect of Order 8 Rule 3 read along with rr 4 and 5 of the Code is
> that, defendant is bound to deal specifically with each allegation of fact
> not admitted by him; he must either deny or state definitely that the
> substance of each allegation is not admitted. The main allegations which
> form the foundation of the suit should be dealt with in that way and
> expressly denied. Facts not specifically dealt with will be taken to be
> admitted under Order 8 Rule 5 of the Code.
18\. Order 8 Rule 5 of the Code is known as doctrine of non­traverse which
means that where a material averment is passed over without specific denial,
it is taken to be CS No. 962/14 Manju vs Jaswinder Singh Page 9 of 38
admitted. The rule says that any allegation of fact must either be denied
specifically or by necessary implication or there should be a statement that
the fact is not admitted. If the plea is not taken in that manner, then the
allegation should taken to be admitted.
19\. Supreme Court in M. Venkataraman Hebbar (D) By L.RS. Vs. M. Rajgopal
Hebbar & Ors. 2007 (5) SCALE 598, observed;
> "Thus, if a plea which was relevant for the purpose of maintaining a suit
> had not been specifically traversed, the Court was entitled to draw an
> inference that the same had been admitted. A fact admitted in terms of
> Section 58 of the Evidence Act need not be proved."
After going through the observation made in the judgment Smt. Asha Kapoor
(supra ) and after going through the provisions as enumerated in the Order 8
rule 3,4,and 5 of CPC, the court left with no doubt that if the defendant does
not deny specifically or remain silent with the facts pleaded in the plaint,
then same facts have to be deemed as admitted.
In the case in hand, the defendants have admittedly not filed any written
statement to the amended plaint, thereby leaving no doubt to the Court that
the averments as pleaded in para no.1 and the subsequent paras have been duly
admitted by the defendants.
CS No. 962/14 Manju vs Jaswinder Singh Page 10 of 38 Now it is clear that the
defendants/LR of the defendants have not filed any written statement to
amended plaint, accordingly, it is clear that factum of suit property being
the property bearing no. A5B Himgiri Enclave, Chander Vihar, Nitholi
Extension, Nangloi, Delhi­110041 which is also known as B­10, Himgiri Enclave,
Chander Vihar, Nitholi Extension, Nangloi, Delhi­110041 has been admitted. So,
it is clear that it is admitted fact that the suit property is the property
bearing no. A5B Himgiri Enclave, Chander Vihar, Nitholi Extension, Nangloi,
Delhi­110041 which is also known as B­ 10, Himgiri Enclave, Chander Vihar,
Nitholi Extension, Nangloi, Delhi­110041. Though from the abovementioned, it
is clear that it is an admitted fact that property bearing no. A5B, Himgiri
Enclave, Chander Vihar, Nitholi Extension, Nangloi, Delhi­110041 and property
bearing no. B­10, Himgiri Enclave, Chander Vihar, Nitholi Extension, Nangloi,
Delhi­110041 are one and same property termed as suit property, yet to put the
controversy to the rest and to decide all the controversies regarding the
identity and description of the suit property, the same is being decided on
the basis of pleadings, admissions and evidences.
It is observed by the Court that it is an admitted fact on the part of both
the parties and which is matter of record that one CS No. 962/14 Manju vs
Jaswinder Singh Page 11 of 38 eviction petition was filed by the plaintiff in
the month of May, 2004 on the ground that the plaintiff gave the suit property
bearing no. A5B, Himgiri Enclave, Chander Vihar, Nitholi Extension, Nangloi,
Delhi­110041 on rent to the defendant no.1 @ Rs.1500/­ per month. The
defendant no.1 moved an application for seeking the rejection of the eviction
petition for want of jurisdiction of Ld. ARC. The relevant para from the
application of defendant no.1 Jasvinder Singh is quoted here as under for the
sake of clarity:­ "... That the tenancy premises falling in Himgiri Enclave,
Chander Vihar, Nilotthi Ext. Nangloi Delhi­41 does not come under the purview
of D.R.C Act therefore the present petition is not maintainable under the
purview of D.R.C Act..."
From the abovequoted averments of the defendant no.1, it is clear that the
defendant no.1 has not raised any contentions w.r.t. the number of the suit
property, the factum of the tenancy and only raised the objection on the
ground that the tenanted premises which is falling in Himgiri Enclave, Chander
Vihar, Nitholi Extension, Nangloi, Delhi­110041 does not come within the
perview of DRC Act. So all the facts i.e. factum of number of suit property
and factum of tenancy between the plaintiff and defendant no.1 had been duly
admitted by the defendant no.1 in earlier litigation.
CS No. 962/14 Manju vs Jaswinder Singh Page 12 of 38 It is further observed by
the Court that the said eviction petition was dismissed by the then Ld. ARC
with the observations that the tenanted premises bearing no. A5B, Himgiri
Enclave, Chander Vihar, Nitholi Extension, Nangloi, Delhi­110041 is not
covered under DRC Act. The relevant observations made by the then Ld. ARC are
quoted here as under for the sake of clarity:­ "...Counsel for respondent has
submitted that this court has no jurisdiction to try the present eviction
petition as the premises no. A­5B, Himgiri, Chander Vihar, Nilothi Extn.
Nangloi Delhi­41 is not covered under DRC Act..."
From the abovequoted observations made by ld. ARC in order dated 22.02.2005,
Ex. PW1/9, it is clear that the Ld. Counsel for respondents(defendant no.1
herein) had made specific submissions that the suit property/tenanted premises
bearing no. A5B, Himgiri Enclave, Chander Vihar, Nitholi Extension, Nangloi,
Delhi­110041 does not fall within the DRC Act. It is further observed by the
Court that the defendant no.2(LR no.A of the defendant no.1) filed an
application under Section 45 of DRC Act in the month of August, 2004 on the
ground that the electricity in the suit property has been disconnected by the
plaintiff. It is observed by the Court that the defendant no.2(LR no.A of the
defendant no.1) in the said CS No. 962/14 Manju vs Jaswinder Singh Page 13 of
38 application under Section 45 of DRC Act had specifically averred that the
petitioners (defendant no.2/LR no.A of the defendant no.1 herein) have been
residing in the said premises is B­10, Himgiri Enclave, Chander Vihar, Nitholi
Extension, Nangloi, Delhi­110041 as a tenant. The defendant no.2 (LR no.A of
the defendant no.1) as petitioner in the said application under Section 45 of
DRC Act for the first time raised the contentions that the suit premises i.e.
property bearing no. B­10, Himgiri Enclave, Chander Vihar, Nitholi Extension,
Nangloi, Delhi­110041, however, the identity of the suit property was not
denied and it was contended by the plaintiff that she is residing as a tenant
in the suit property. It is also observed by the Court that defendant no.2(LR
no.A of the defendant no.1) moved one application under Order 6 Rule 17 of CPC
for amendment in the application under Section 45 of Delhi Rent Control Act,
wherein the defendant no.2(LR no. A of the defendant no.1) sought the
amendment to the effect that she is residing along with her husband as a
tenant in the suit property and Ms. Manju Sehgal, (plaintiff herein)is the
landlady, the said application under Order 6 Rule 17 of CPC was disposed of as
dismissed by Ld. ARC vide order dated 21.09.2004 and consequently, the
application under Section 45 of DRC Act was also dismissed in default.
CS No. 962/14 Manju vs Jaswinder Singh Page 14 of 38 It is also observed by
the court that it is also an admitted fact and matter of record that the
defendant no.2(LR no.A of the defendant no.1) filed the suit against the
plaintiff for permanent and mandatory injunction, wherein it was averred by
the defendant no.2(LR no.A of the defendant no.1) that the plaintiff gave the
physical possession of the suit property to the defendant no.2(LR no.A of the
defendant no.1) by taking the payment of sum of Rs. 50,000/­. The relevant
para from the plaint filed by the defendant no.2(LR no. A of the defendant
no.1), which is exhibited as Ex. PW­ 1/10, is quoted here as under for the
sake of clarity:­ "...That the plaintiff has been residing in the suit
property alongwith her family members since 10.01.2001. The physical
possession of the suit property was handed over to the plaintiff by the
defendant no.1 and her husband Sh. Suresh Sehgal alongwith the defendant no.2
on 10.1.2002 when the plaintiff sold out her Auto Rickshaw and out of the sale
proceeded paid RS. 50,000/­ to the defendant no.1...."
It is pertinent to mention here that in the said suit the defendant no. 2(LR
no.A of the defendant no.1) contended that the property is bearing no. B­10,
Himgiri Enclave, Chander Vihar, Nitholi Extension, Nangloi, Delhi­110041,
which was duly controverted by the defendant (plaintiff herein) in the written
statement to the effect that the suit property is bearing no. A­5B, Himgiri
Enclave, Chander CS No. 962/14 Manju vs Jaswinder Singh Page 15 of 38 Vihar,
Nitholi Extension, Nangloi, Delhi­110041, and not B­10, Himgiri Enclave,
Chander Vihar, Nitholi Extension, Nangloi, Delhi­ 110041 as averred by the
defendant no.2(LR no.A of the defendant no.1).
Now from the abovementioned, it is clear that in the earlier litigation
between the parties, the defendant no.1 had admitted not only the factum of
tenancy but also the factum of giving of the possession of the suit property
by the plaintiff to the defendants and in the present suit defendants have
averred that possession of the suit property was given by Sh. S. S. Manjeet
Singh of Punjab Properties(though there is not even a single documents or
evidence to substantiate the same).
At this stage, one question arises as to whether the admission made by the
parties in the earlier litigation can be read into as evidence and/or
admissions in the present suit. The question was answered by the Hon'ble
Supreme Court in judgment Basant Singh vs Janki Singh & Ors AIR 1967, SC 341.
The relevant para is quoted here as under for the sake of clarity:­ "...An
admission by a party in a plaint signed and verified by him in a prior suit is
an admission within the meaning of s. 17 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872, and
may be CS No. 962/14 Manju vs Jaswinder Singh Page 16 of 38 proved against him
in other litigations. The High Court also relied on the English law of
evidence. In Phipson on Evidence, 10th Edn, Art. 741, the English law is thus
summarised:
"Pleadings, although admissible in other actions, to show the institution of
the suit and the nature of the case put forward, are regarded merely as the
suggestion of counsel, and are not receivable against a party as admissions,
unless sworn, signed, or otherwise adopted by the party himself."
Thus, even under the English law, a statement in a pleading sworn, signed or
otherwise adopted by a party is admissible against him in other actions. In
Marianski v. Cairns(1), the House of Lords decided that an admission in a
pleading signed by a party was evidence against him in another suit not only
with regard to a different subject­ matter but also against a different
opponent. Moreover, we are not concerned with the technicalities of the
English law. Section 17 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 makes no distinction
between an admission made by a party in a pleading and other admissions. Under
the Indian law, an admission made by a party in a plaint signed and verified
by him may be used as evidence against him in other suits. In other suits,
this admission cannot be regarded as conclusive, and it is open to the party
to show that it is not true..."
The similar was reitreated by the Hon'ble High Court of Delhi in
Telefonaktiebolaget Lm Ericsson (Publ) vs. Intex Technologies (India) Ltd.in
I.A. No. 6735/2014 in CS (OS) No. 1045/2014. The relevant para are quoted here
as under for the sake of clarity:­ "...143. It is a well settled principle of
law that an CS No. 962/14 Manju vs Jaswinder Singh Page 17 of 38 admission
made by a party in a pleading, even in a different proceeding, can be used as
evidence against such party in another proceeding. The aforesaid principle has
been echoed in various landmark judgments of the Supreme Court of India.
Reliance is placed on Basant Singh vs. Janki Singh AIR 1967 SC 341 wherein it
has observed:
> "5.The High Court also observed that an admission in a pleading can be used
> only for the purpose of the suit in which the pleading was filed. The
> observations of Beaumont, C.J. in Ramabai Shriniwas v. Bombay Government
> (AIR 1941 Bom 144) lend some countenance to this view. But those
> observations were commented upon and explained by the Bombay High Court in
> D.S. Mohite v. S.I. Mohite A.I.R. 1960 Bom. 153. An admission by a party in
> a plaint signed and verified by him in a prior suit is an admission within
> the meaning of s. 17 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872, and may be proved
> against him in other litigations. The High Court also relied on the English
> law of evidence. In Phipson on Evidence, 10th Edn., Art. 741, the English
> law is thus summarised:
> "Pleadings, although admissible in other actions, to show the institution of
> the suit and the nature of the case put forward, are regarded merely as the
> suggestion of counsel, and are not receivable against a party as admissions,
> unless sworn, signed, or otherwise adopted by the party himself."
6\. Thus, even under the English law, a statement in a pleading sworn, signed
or otherwise adopted by a party is admissible CS No. 962/14 Manju vs Jaswinder
Singh Page 18 of 38 against him in other actions. In Marianski v. Cairns 1
Macq. 212 ., the House of Lords decided that an admission in a pleading signed
by a party was evidence against him in another suit not only with regard to a
different subject­ matter but also against a different opponent. Moreover, we
are not concerned with the technicalities of the English law. Section 17 of
the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 makes no distinction between an admission made
by a party in a pleading and other admissions.
Under the Indiasn law, an admission made by a party in a plaint signed and
verified by him may be used as evidence against him in other suits. In other
suits, this admission cannot be regarded as conclusive, and it is open to the
party to show that it is not true." (emphasis added)
144\. It is equally well­settled that the party cannot be allowed to approbate
or reprobate at the same time so as to take one position, when the matter is
going to his advantage and another when it is operating to his detriment and
more so, when there is a same matter either at the same level or at the
appellate stage.
145\. In the case of Dwijendra Narain Roy vs. Joges Chandra De, AIR 1924 Cal
600, The Division Bench of the Calcutta High Court has succinctly held :
> "It is an elementary rule that a party litigant cannot be permitted to
> assume inconsistent positions in Court, to play fast and loose, to blow hot
> and cold, to approbate and reprobate to the detriment of his opponent. This
> wholesome doctrine, the learned Judge held, applies not only to successive
> stages of the same suit, but also to another suit than the one in which the
> position was taken up, provided CS No. 962/14 Manju vs Jaswinder Singh Page
> 19 of 38 the second suit grows out of the judgment in the first." (Emphasis
> Supplied) Applying the said principles of law to the present case, it is
> apparent that if the defendant is allowed to re­agitate, it would also lead
> to allowing the party to approbate and reprobate at the same time which is
> clearly impermissible. The plea is thus barred by way of principle of
> approbate or reprobate which is a facet of estoppels as the defendant had
> accepted the findings of the Division Bench and Single Judge. There are no
> subsequent events which have changed warranting re­ adjudication of the
> matter..."(underline added) After going through the abovementioed principle
> of law, it is clear that the admission/pleadings made by a party in an
> earlier litigation can be taken as evidence in the subsequent litigation
> w.r.t subject matter of the suit. So, from the abovementioned, it is clear
> that the above quoted admission/pleadings made by the defendant no.1 in
> reply to the eviction petition and admission/averments/pleadings made by the
> defendant no.2 (LR no.A of the defendant no.1) in application under Section
> 45 of DRC Act and in her suit bearing no. 32/06/04, can be read into
> evidence in the present suit. It is again pertinent to mention here that in
> the present suit the defendants have averred in the written statement which
> is filed w.r.t non amended/earlier plaint that they have nothing to do with
> the property bearing no. A­5B, Himgiri Enclave, Chander CS No. 962/14 Manju
> vs Jaswinder Singh Page 20 of 38 Vihar, Nitholi Extension, Nangloi,
> Delhi­110041 and the same is apparently nothing but self contradictory
> w.r.t. earlier averments/pleadings made by defendants.
Now from the above quoted averment, pleadings/admissions of the defendant no.
1 and 2, it is clear that the defendant no.1 firstly admitted the factum of
tenancy and the factum of description and identity of the suit property, in
reply to the eviction petition in the year 2004. It is also clear that the
defendant no.2(LR no.A of the defendant no.1) in the application filed under
Section 45 of Delhi Rent Control Act and in the suit for permanent and
mandatory injunction bearing CS no. 32/06/04 Ex. PW1/10 has categorically
admitted the factum that they had taken the possession of the suit property
from the plaintiff. It is also pertinent to mention here that the plaintiff
filed the amended plaint thereby incorporating the pleadings to the effect
that the suit property is bearing no. A5B, Himgiri Enclave, Chander Vihar,
Nitholi Extension, Nangloi, Delhi­ 110041 and same is also known as B­10
Himgiri Enclave, Chander Vihar, Nitholi Extension, Nangloi, Delhi­110041 and
the same has not been denied as no written statement was filed and same has to
be admitted in terms of Order 8 Rule 5 of CPC.
CS No. 962/14 Manju vs Jaswinder Singh Page 21 of 38 At this stage, the court
deem it fit to mention here that in the earlier suit filed by the defendant
no.2(LR no.A of the defendant no.1), the defendant no.2(LR no.A of the
defendant no.1) took a stand that a sum of Rs. 50,000/­ was taken by the
plaintiff and till the same is not returned, they would not vacate the suit
property. It is also pertinent to mention that it is an admitted fact and the
matter of record that plaintiffs, without admitting the contents of plaint in
earlier suit bearing CS No. 32/06/04 Ex. PW1/10, filed banker's cheque in the
sum of Rs. 50,000/­ and the same has not yet been taken by the defendant
no.2(LR no.A of the defendant no.1) and in the present suit, the defendants
have changed their stand to the effect that they have nothing to do with the
suit property and have even denied the factum of any relationship with the
plaintiff qua the suit property.
From the abovementioned, it is clear that the defendants are changing their
stand as per their conveniences, at different stages of litigations, however,
admissions/pleadings as quoted above, which was made by the defendants in the
earlier litigations make it amply clear that the plaintiff is landlord of the
suit property and the defendants are the tenants in the suit property.
From the abovementioned, it is clear that the suit property is one and the
same and same is known as A5B, Himgiri Enclave, CS No. 962/14 Manju vs
Jaswinder Singh Page 22 of 38 Chander Vihar, Nitholi Extension, Nangloi,
Delhi­110041 or B­10, Himgiri Enclave, Chander Vihar, Nitholi Extension,
Nangloi, Delhi­ 110041\. From the abovementioned, it is also clear that the
defendants have taken the different stand at every stage of different
litigation as per their connivances, which cannot be allowed as per principle
of approbate or reprobate which is a facet of principle of estoppel. It is
also clear from the avovementioned that factum of taking possession of the
suit property by the defendants from the plaintiff is clear from the
admissions made by the defendants in earlier litigations. Moreover, there is
not even a single evidence to substantiate that the possession of suit
property was allegedly taken from Sh. S. S. Manjeet as averred in written
statement filed w.r.t earlier/non amended plaint.
From the abovementioned discussion, it is clear that the suit property bearing
no. A5B, Himgiri Enclave, Chander Vihar, Nitholi Extension, Nangloi,
Delhi­110041, is also known as B­10, Himgiri Enclave, Chander Vihar, Nitholi
Extension, Nangloi, Delhi­110041; In other words, the property bearing no.
A5B, Himgiri Enclave, Chander Vihar, Nitholi Extension, Nangloi, Delhi­110041
and property bearing no. B­10, Himgiri Enclave, Chander Vihar, Nitholi
Extension, Nangloi, Delhi­110041 are one and the same property and the same
are being termed as suit property.
CS No. 962/14 Manju vs Jaswinder Singh Page 23 of 38 It is also clear from the
abovementioned discussions that there exist an admitted relationship of
landlord and tenant between the parties.
Now the question, which has to be answered, is that as to whether the
plaintiff is the owner of the suit property, as specific issue has been framed
as issue no.1.
Before proceeding ahead with deciding the abovementioned question/issue, the
court deem it fit to mention here that it is settled principle of law that
once relationship of tenant and landlord is admitted, then there is no need to
go into the question of right, title or interest of the plaintiff/landlord
w.r.t the suit property, yet to put the controversy to the rest, the court is
dealing with the issue as to whether the plaintiff is having right, title or
interest in the suit property. To this, it is observed by the court that
plaintiff has produced documents Ex. PW­1/1 to Ex. PW­1/5 to substantiate the
issue w.r.t right, title or interest of plaintiff in the suit property.
At this stage, the Court deem it fit to mention here that in view of facts and
circumstances as mentioned above, it becomes inevitable to answer one question
as to whether the transfer of the CS No. 962/14 Manju vs Jaswinder Singh Page
24 of 38 property on the basis of the abovementioned documents i.e. Agreement
to sell, GPA, Affidavit etc. are proper or not in terms of
findings/observations as given by the Hon'ble Apex Court in Suraj Lamp and
Industries Private Limited Through Director (2) v. State of Haryana &
Anr.(2012) 1 SCC 656.
To this, the court deem it fit to mention here that there is no doubt that it
was propounded by the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India in Suraj Lamp (Supra)
that a transfer of an immovable property done through an agreement to
sell/GPA/Will are not transfer or sales in true terms and such transactions
cannot be treated as complete transfer or conveyance; however, the court deem
it fit to mention here that in the final judgment which is reported in Suraj
Lamp and Industries Private Limited Through Director (2) v. State of Haryana &
Anr.(2012) 1 SCC 656, the Hon'ble Supreme Court clarified the legal position
that judgment would not affect the validity of sale by agreement to sale and
GPA executed in genuine transaction and the judgment would operate only
prospectively. The court deem it fit to quote here the relevant para from the
Suraj Lamp (supra):­ "...17. It has been submitted that making declaration
that GPA sales and SA/GPA/WILL transfers are not legally valid modes of
transfer is likely to create hardship to a large number of persons who have
entered into such transactions and they should be given sufficient time to CS
No. 962/14 Manju vs Jaswinder Singh Page 25 of 38 regularize the transactions
by obtaining deeds of conveyance. It is also submitted that this decision
should be made applicable prospectively to avoid hardship.
18\. We have merely drawn attention to and reiterated the well­settled legal
position that SA/GPA/WILL transactions are not transfers or sales and that
such transactions cannot be treated as completed transfers or conveyances.
They can continue to be treated as existing agreement of sale. Nothing
prevents affected parties from getting registered Deeds of Conveyance to
complete their title. The said SA/GPA/WILL transactions may also be used to
obtain specific performance or to defend possession under section 53A of TP
Act. If they are entered before this day, they may be relied upon to apply for
regularization of allotments/leases by Development Authorities. We make it
clear that if the documents relating to SA/GPA/WILL transactions has been
accepted acted upon by DDA or other developmental authorities or by the
Municipal or revenue authorities to effect mutation, they need not be
disturbed, merely on account of this decision..."(underline added) At this
stage, court also deem it fit to mention here that Hon'ble Supreme Court of
India in Maya Devi v. Lalta Prasad, Civil Appeal No. 2458 of 2014 date of
decision 19.02.2014, has categorically clarified that the judgment of Suraj
Lamp(supra) will not affect the transfer of property done through agreement to
sale and GPA executed in genuine transaction and the judgment Suraj Lamp
(supra) would operate only prospectively.
CS No. 962/14 Manju vs Jaswinder Singh Page 26 of 38 The relevant para from
the judgment Maya Devi (supra) written by Hon'ble Justice Vikramajit Sen is
quoted here as under for the sake of clarity:­ "...1. I have perused the
judgment of my learned and esteemed Brother Radhakrishnan, and I entirely and
respectfully agree with his conclusion that the appeal deserves to be allowed.
My learned Brother has succinctly analysed the sterling judgment in Suraj Lamp
and Industries Private Limited vs State of Haryana (2009) 7 SCC 363, which has
been rendered by a Three­Judge Bench of this Court. I completely concur with
the view that since General Power of Attorney (GPA) in favour of the Appellant
was executed and registered on 12.05.2006, it could not be impacted or
affected by the Suraj Lamp dicta. Furthermore, a reading of the order of the
Executing Court as well as of the High Court makes it palpably clear that both
the Courts had applied the disqualification and illegality imposed upon GPAs
by Suraj Lamp, without keeping in mind that the operation of that judgment
prospective. Was pointedly And poignantly This question has been dealt with by
my esteemed Brother most comprehensively...
...17. A perusal of the above will show that the Executing Court ignored and
overlooked the important submission of the Appellant stating that she was the
absolute owner of the suit property and that she had no truck whatsoever
either with the Judgment Debtor Shri Prem Chand Verma or his wife Smt. Nirmal
Verma beyond purchasing the subject property from the latter.What has also
escaped the attention of the Court is that Suraj Lamp has prospective
operation, thereby rendering it inapplicable to the subject 2006 transaction.
Secondly, if the General CS No. 962/14 Manju vs Jaswinder Singh Page 27 of 38
Power of Attorney in favour of the Appellant Smt. Maya Devi was bereft of
legal efficacy, the ownership of Smt. Nirmal Verma would also be invalid, and
Page 3637 sequentially whatsoever the property would have no connection with
the Judgment Debtor purportedly derived title only through a Will. Since he
had Unfortunately, this is also the approach which has been preferred by the
High Court in terms of the impugned order. The High Court has also wrongly
applied Suraj Lamp and has also neglected to reflect upon the Appellant's plea
that she is (I) the actual owner of the suit property having purchased it for
valuable consideration, and (ii) being a third party not connected in any mala
fide manner with the Judgment Debtor, and (iii) not having received prior
notice of any action of late Shri Prem Chand Verma, was imperious to Execution
proceedings. monumental proportions, A miscarriage of justice, of has taken
place on an un­ substantiated presumption that one of the assets of the
Judgment Debtor had been illegally transferred to defeat the decree. The
Appellant before us had no other recourse than to file Objections under Order
XXI Rule 58 CPC..."(underline added) After going through the abovementiobned,
it is clear that decision given by the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India in Suraj
Lamp (supra) has prospective operation, thereby rendering it inapplicable to
the transaction in question which admittedly pertains to year 2002.
So, it is clear that the plaintiff is having right, title and/or interest in
the suit property.
CS No. 962/14 Manju vs Jaswinder Singh Page 28 of 38 Now from the
abovementioned discussion, the following things have been crystallized :­
Firstly, the plaintiff is having right, title and/or interest in the suit
property;
Secondly, the defendant is tenant in the suit property; In other words, there
exist a relationship of landlord and tenant between the parties and Thirdly,
provisions of Delhi Rent Control Act are not applicable as decided by the
court of ld. ARC vide order dt 22.02.2005.
Once, it is clear that there exist a relationship of landlord and tenant
between the parties and the provision of Delhi Rent Control Act are not
applicable to the suit property, then the only question which is left to be
decided, is that as to whether notice for termination of the tenancy has been
duly served upon the defendants or not. It is contention of the plaintiff that
notice dt. 14.09.2006 Ex. PW­1/18 was issued, however, point of service of the
same is in question.
CS No. 962/14 Manju vs Jaswinder Singh Page 29 of 38 Without going into the
question as to whether the notice Ex. PW­1/18, has been served upon the
defendants, court deem it fit to mention here that it is settled principle of
law that filing of a suit for possession is in itself sufficient for
compliance of service of notice under Section 106 of Transfer of Property Act.
To clarify the legal principle, the court deem it fit to quote here the
relevant observations made by Hon'ble Apex Court.
The Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Nopany Investments (P) Ltd. Vs.
Santokh Singh (HUF), 2008 (2) SCC 728, has held that a monthly tenancy can be
said to be determined on a filing of a suit for possession by the landlord.
The relevant observations of the Hon'ble Supreme Court are contained in para
22 of the judgment in Nopany's case and which reads as under:­ "...22. In the
present case, after serving a notice under Section 6­A read with Section 8 of
the Act, the protection of the tenant under the Act automatically ceased to
exist as the rent of the tenanted premises exceeded ` 3500 and the bar of
Section 3(c) came into play. At the risk of repetition, since, in the present
case, the increase of rent by 10% on the rent agreed upon between the
appellant and the respondent brought the suit premises out of the purview of
the Act in view of Section 3(c) of the Act, it was not necessary to take leave
of the Rent Controller and the suit, as noted hereinabove, could be filed by
the landlord under the general law. The landlord was only required to CS No.
962/14 Manju vs Jaswinder Singh Page 30 of 38 serve a notice on the tenant
expressing his intention to make such increase. When the eviction petition was
pending before the Additional Rent Controller and the order passed by him
under Section 15 of the Act directing the appellant to deposit rent at the
rate of ` 3500 was also subsisting, the notice dated 9­1­1992 was sent by the
respondent to the appellant intimating him that he wished to increase the rent
by 10 per cent. Subsequent to this notice, another notice dated 31­3­1992 was
sent by the respondent intimating the appellant that by virtue of the notice
dated 9­1­1992 and in view of Section 6­A of the Act, the rent stood enhanced
by 10per cent i.e. from ` 3500 to ` 3850. It is an admitted position that the
tenancy of the appellant was terminated by a further notice dated
16­7­1992/17­7­1992. Subsequent to this, Eviction Petition No.432 of 1984 was
withdrawn by the respondent on 20­8­1992 and the suit for eviction, out of
which the present appeal has arisen, was filed on 6.2.1993. That being the
factual position, it cannot at all be said that the suit could not be filed
without the leave of the Additional Rent Controller when, admittedly, at the
time of filing of the said suit, the eviction petition before the Additional
Rent Controller had already been withdrawn nor can it be said that the notice
of increase of rent and termination of tenancy could not be given
simultaneously, when, in fact, the notice dated 16­7­1992/17­7­ 1992 was also
a notice to quit and the notice intending increase of rent in terms of Section
6­A of the Act was earlier in date than the notice dated 16­7­1992/17­7­1992.
In any view of the matter, it is well settled that filing of an eviction suit
under the general law itself is a notice to quit on the tenant. Therefore, we
have no hesitation to hold that no notice to quit was necessary under Section
106 of the Transfer of Property Act in order to enable the respondent to get a
decree of eviction against the appellant. This view has also been expressed in
the decision of this Court in V. Dhanapal Chettair v. Yesodai Ammal..."
(underlining added) CS No. 962/14 Manju vs Jaswinder Singh Page 31 of 38
Similar was also reiterated by the Hon'ble High Court of Delhi in the judgment
reported as M/s. Jeevan Diesels & Electricals Ltd. Vs. M/s. Jasbir Singh
Chadha (HUF) & Anr. 2011 (182) DLT 402, wherein it was observed by the Hon'ble
High Court of Delhi that filing of a suit for possession in itself sufficient
to substantiate that tenancy has been terminated. The relevant paras are
quoted here as under for the sake of clarity;­ "7. The second argument that
the legal notice dated 15.7.2006 was not received by the appellant, and
consequently the tenancy cannot be said to have been validly terminated, is
also an argument without substance and there are many reasons for rejecting
this argument. These reasons are as follows:­
(i) The respondents/plaintiffs appeared in the trial Court and exhibited the
notice terminating tenancy dated 15.7.2006 as Ex.PW1/3 and with respect to
which the registered receipt, UPC and AD card were exhibited as Ex.PW1/4 to
Ex.PW1/6. The notice admittedly was sent to the correct address and which
aspect was not disputed before the trial Court. Once the
respondents/plaintiffs led evidence and duly proved the service of legal
notice, the appellant/defendant was bound to lead rebuttal evidence to show
that the notice was not served although the same was posted to the correct
address. Admittedly, the appellant/defendant led no evidence in the trial
Court. In fact, even leading of evidence in rebuttal by the appellant would
not have CS No. 962/14 Manju vs Jaswinder Singh Page 32 of 38 ordinarily
helped the appellant as the notice was sent to the correct address. In my
opinion, therefore, the trial Court was justified in arriving at a finding
that the legal notice dated 15.7.2006 was duly served upon the appellant
resulting in termination of the tenancy . (ii) The Supreme Court in the case
of Nopany Investments (P)Ltd. Vs. Santokh Singh (HUF) 2008 (2) SCC 728 has
held that the tenancy would stand terminated under general law on filing of a
suit for eviction. Accordingly, in view of the decision in the case of Nopany
(supra) I hold that even assuming the notice terminating tenancy was not
served upon the appellant (though it has been served and as held by me above)
the tenancy would stand terminated on filing of the subject suit against the
appellant/defendant.
(iii) In the suits for rendition of accounts of a dissolved partnership at
will and partition of HUF property, ordinarily it is required that a notice be
given of dissolving the partnership at will or for severing the joint status
before the filing of such suits because such suits proceed on the basis that
the partnership is already dissolved or the joint status of an HUF stands
severed by service of notices prior to the filing of such suits. However, it
has been held in various judicial pronouncements that the service of summons
in the suit will be taken as the receipt of notice of the dissolution of the
partnership or severing of the joint status in case of non service of
appropriate notices and therefore the suits for dissolution of partnership and
partition of HUF property cannot be dismissed on the technical ground that the
partnership was not dissolved before filing of CS No. 962/14 Manju vs
Jaswinder Singh Page 33 of 38 the suit or the joint status was not severed
before filing a suit for partition of the HUF property by serving of
appropriate notices. In my opinion, similar logic can be applied in suits for
possession filed by landlords against the tenants where the tenancy is a
monthly tenancy and which tenancy can be terminated by means of a notice under
Section 106 of the Transfer of Property Act. Once we take the service of
plaint in the suit to the appellant/defendant as a notice terminating tenancy,
the provision of Order 7 Rule 7 CPC can then be applied to take notice of
subsequent facts and hold that the tenancy will stand terminated after 15 days
of receipt of service of summons and the suit plaint. This rationale ought to
apply because after all the only object of giving a notice under Section 106
is to give 15 days to the tenant to make alternative arrangements. In my
opinion, therefore, the argument that the tenancy has not been validly
terminated, and the suit could not have been filed, fails for this reason
also. In this regard, I am keeping in view the amendment brought about to
Section 106 of the Transfer of Property Act by Act 3 of 2003 and as per which
Amendment no objection with regard to termination of tenancy is permitted on
the ground that the legal notice did not validly terminate the tenancy by a
notice ending with the expiry of the tenancy month, as long as a period of 15
days was otherwise given to the tenant to vacate the property. The intention
of Legislature is therefore clear that technical objections should not be
permitted to defeat substantial justice and the suit for possession of
tenanted premises once the tenant has a period of 15 days for vacating the
tenanted premises.
CS No. 962/14 Manju vs Jaswinder Singh Page 34 of 38
(iv) Another reason for rejecting the argument that the tenancy would not be
terminated by the legal notice Ex.PW1/3 is that the respondents/plaintiffs
admittedly filed a copy of this notice alongwith the suit way back in the year
2007. Once the summons in the suit alongwith documents were served upon the
appellant/tenant, the appellant/tenant would obviously have received such
notice. Even if we take this date when the appellant/tenant received a copy of
the notice when served with the documents in the suit, once again, the period
of 15 days has expired thereafter and keeping the legislative intendment of
amended Section 106 in view, the appellant therefore cannot argue that the
tenancy is not terminated and he did not get a period of 15 days to vacate the
premises. I am in view of this position consequently entitled to take notice
of subsequent events under Order 7 Rule 7 CPC, and taking notice of the
subsequent events of the expiry of 15 days after receipt of a copy of the
notice alongwith documents in the suit, I hold that the tenancy has been
validly terminated, and as on date, the appellant/tenant has no right to stay
in the premises and consequently the decree for possession was rightly passed
by the trial Court..."(underlining added) From the abovementioned discussions,
it is clear that the property bearing no. A5B, Himgiri Enclave, Chander Vihar,
Nitholi Extension, Nangloi, Delhi­110041 and property bearing no. B­10, CS No.
962/14 Manju vs Jaswinder Singh Page 35 of 38 Himgiri Enclave, Chander Vihar,
Nitholi Extension, Nangloi, Delhi­ 110041 are one and the same property and
the same has been termed as suit property. From the abovementioned, it is also
clear that the identity of the suit property was not disputed, however, the
defendant for sake of their vested motive had put a controversy over the
identity of the suit property. From the abovementioned, it is also clear that
the plaintiff is having right, title or interest in the suit property and the
defendants are residing in the suit property in the capacity of a tenant. It
is also clear and admitted fact that the suit property is not coming within
the ambit of notified area of Delhi Rent Control Act; In the other words, the
provisions of Delhi Rent Control Act are not applicable w.r.t the suit
property. It is also clear from the abovementioned discussions that filing of
the present suit for possession is sufficient w.r.t the compliance of notice
under Section 106 of Transfer of Property Act. Once, it is clear that there is
exists relations of landlady and tenant between the parties and suit property
does not fall within the notified area of Delhi Rent Control Act and the
filing of the suit is sufficient for terminating the tenancy, then the
plaintiff is surely entitled for possession of suit property as the
defendants/LR of defendants have no right to remain in possession of the suit
property.
CS No. 962/14 Manju vs Jaswinder Singh Page 36 of 38 In view of the
abovementioned discussion, it is clear that the plaintiff is having right,
title and interest in the suit property. Accordingly, issue no.1 is decided in
favour of the plaintiff.
From the abovementioned, it is also clear that the plaintiff is entitled for
possession of the suit property. Accordingly, issue no.2 is decided in favour
of the plaintiff.
RELIEF 9­ In view of my findings on issues, the suit of the plaintiff is
disposed of as decreed and it is decreed that the plaintiff is entitled for
the possession of the suit property i.e. property bearing no. A5B, Himgiri
Enclave, Chander Vihar, Nitholi Extension, Nangloi, Delhi­41, also known as
B­10, Himgiri Enclave, Chander Vihar, Nitholi Extension, Nangloi, Delhi­41
measuring 50 sq. yrds, as shown in the red colour in the site plan Ex. PW1/20
and it is specifically directed to the defendants/LR of the defendants to hand
over the possession of the suit property i.e. property bearing no. A5B,
Himgiri Enclave, Chander Vihar, Nitholi Extension, Nangloi, Delhi­41 also
known as B­ 10, Himgiri Enclave, Chander Vihar, Nitholi Extension, Nangloi,
Delhi­41 measuring 50 sq. yrds as shown in the red colour in the site plan Ex.
PW1/20, to the plaintiff within a period of four weeks from today, failing of
which would entitle the plaintiff to have decree CS No. 962/14 Manju vs
Jaswinder Singh Page 37 of 38 executed in accordance with law.
10­ Cost of the suit including the Court fee which is annexed with the plaint,
is also awarded in favour of the plaintiff.
11­ Decree Sheet be drawn accordingly. File be consigned to Record Room.
    Announced in the open Court 
    on 02.06.2016                                          (Vinod Kumar Meena)
    (Total pages 1 to 38)                              CJ­11 (Central)/02.06.2016
    CS No. 962/14
    Manju vs Jaswinder Singh                                           Page 38 of 38
the possession of the suit property i.e. property bearing no. A5B, Himgiri
Enclave, Chander Vihar, Nitholi Extension, Nangloi, Delhi­41, also known as
B­10, Himgiri Enclave, Chander Vihar, Nitholi Extension, Nangloi, Delhi­41
measuring 50 sq. yrds, as shown in the red colour in the site plan Ex. PW1/20
and it is specifically directed to the defendants/LR of the defendants to hand
over the possession of the suit property i.e. property bearing no. A5B,
Himgiri Enclave, Chander Vihar, Nitholi Extension, Nangloi, Delhi­41 also
known as B­ 10, Himgiri Enclave, Chander Vihar, Nitholi Extension, Nangloi,
Delhi­41 measuring 50 sq. yrds as shown in the red colour in the site plan Ex.
PW1/20, to the plaintiff within a period of four weeks from today, failing of
which would entitle the plaintiff to have decree CS No. 962/14 Manju vs
Jaswinder Singh Page 37 of 38 executed in accordance with law.
10­ Cost of the suit including the Court fee which is annexed with the plaint,
is also awarded in favour of the plaintiff.
11­ Decree Sheet be drawn accordingly. File be consigned to Record Room.
    Announced in the open Court 
        Also known as:­
        B­10, Himgiri Enclave,
        Chander Vihar, Nitholi Extension,
        Nangloi, Delhi­110041
    (A) Smt. Inderjit Kaur       (LR of defendant no.1
                                  and originally defendant no.2)
          W/o Late Sh. Jaswinder Singh
    (B) Sh. Rajender Singh (LR of defendant no.1)
          S/o Late Jaswinder Singh
    CS No. 962/14
    Manju vs Jaswinder Singh                                          Page 1 of 38
     Both R/o (LR no. A & B of defendant no.1)
    A­5B, Himgiri Enclave,
    Chander Vihar, Nitholi Extension,
    Nangloi, Delhi­110041. 
    Also known as:­
    B­10, Himgiri Enclave,
    Chander Vihar, Nitholi Extension,
    Nangloi, Delhi­110041. 
    (C) Sh. Jagmit Singh (LR of defendant no.1)
the possession of the suit property i.e. property bearing no. A5B, Himgiri
Enclave, Chander Vihar, Nitholi Extension, Nangloi, Delhi­41, also known as
B­10, Himgiri Enclave, Chander Vihar, Nitholi Extension, Nangloi, Delhi­41
measuring 50 sq. yrds, as shown in the red colour in the site plan Ex. PW1/20
and it is specifically directed to the defendants/LR of the defendants to hand
over the possession of the suit property i.e. property bearing no. A5B,
Himgiri Enclave, Chander Vihar, Nitholi Extension, Nangloi, Delhi­41 also
known as B­ 10, Himgiri Enclave, Chander Vihar, Nitholi Extension, Nangloi,
Delhi­41 measuring 50 sq. yrds as shown in the red colour in the site plan Ex.
PW1/20, to the plaintiff within a period of four weeks from today, failing of
which would entitle the plaintiff to have decree CS No. 962/14 Manju vs
Jaswinder Singh Page 37 of 38 executed in accordance with law.
10­ Cost of the suit including the Court fee which is annexed with the plaint,
is also awarded in favour of the plaintiff.
11­ Decree Sheet be drawn accordingly. File be consigned to Record Room.
    Announced in the open Court 
        Also known as:­
        B­10, Himgiri Enclave,
        Chander Vihar, Nitholi Extension,
        Nangloi, Delhi­110041
    (A) Smt. Inderjit Kaur       (LR of defendant no.1
                                  and originally defendant no.2)
          W/o Late Sh. Jaswinder Singh
    (B) Sh. Rajender Singh (LR of defendant no.1)
          S/o Late Jaswinder Singh
    CS No. 962/14
    Manju vs Jaswinder Singh                                          Page 1 of 38
     Both R/o (LR no. A & B of defendant no.1)
    A­5B, Himgiri Enclave,
    Chander Vihar, Nitholi Extension,
    Nangloi, Delhi­110041. 
    Also known as:­
    B­10, Himgiri Enclave,
    Chander Vihar, Nitholi Extension,
    Nangloi, Delhi­110041. 
    (C) Sh. Jagmit Singh (LR of defendant no.1)
the possession of the suit property i.e. property bearing no. A5B, Himgiri
Enclave, Chander Vihar, Nitholi Extension, Nangloi, Delhi­41, also known as
B­10, Himgiri Enclave, Chander Vihar, Nitholi Extension, Nangloi, Delhi­41
measuring 50 sq. yrds, as shown in the red colour in the site plan Ex. PW1/20
and it is specifically directed to the defendants/LR of the defendants to hand
over the possession of the suit property i.e. property bearing no. A5B,
Himgiri Enclave, Chander Vihar, Nitholi Extension, Nangloi, Delhi­41 also
known as B­ 10, Himgiri Enclave, Chander Vihar, Nitholi Extension, Nangloi,
Delhi­41 measuring 50 sq. yrds as shown in the red colour in the site plan Ex.
PW1/20, to the plaintiff within a period of four weeks from today, failing of
which would entitle the plaintiff to have decree CS No. 962/14 Manju vs
Jaswinder Singh Page 37 of 38 executed in accordance with law.
10­ Cost of the suit including the Court fee which is annexed with the plaint,
is also awarded in favour of the plaintiff.
11­ Decree Sheet be drawn accordingly. File be consigned to Record Room.
    Announced in the open Court 
        Also known as:­
        B­10, Himgiri Enclave,
        Chander Vihar, Nitholi Extension,
        Nangloi, Delhi­110041
    (A) Smt. Inderjit Kaur       (LR of defendant no.1
                                  and originally defendant no.2)
          W/o Late Sh. Jaswinder Singh
    (B) Sh. Rajender Singh (LR of defendant no.1)
          S/o Late Jaswinder Singh
    CS No. 962/14
    Manju vs Jaswinder Singh                                          Page 1 of 38
     Both R/o (LR no. A & B of defendant no.1)
    A­5B, Himgiri Enclave,
    Chander Vihar, Nitholi Extension,
    Nangloi, Delhi­110041. 
    Also known as:­
    B­10, Himgiri Enclave,
    Chander Vihar, Nitholi Extension,
    Nangloi, Delhi­110041. 
    (C) Sh. Jagmit Singh (LR of defendant no.1)
    S/o Late Sh. Jaswinder Singh 
    (D)Sh. Ranjit Singh (LR of defendant no.1)
    S/o Late Sh. Jaswinder Singh
    Both R/o (LR no. C & D of Defendant no. 1)
    B­122, Chander Vihar, Nangloi,
    Delhi­110041.                                           ... Defendants
                               SUIT FOR POSSESSION
    Date of institution of case                       :        27.04.2007
    Reserved for judgment                             :        02.04.2016
    Date of pronouncement of judgment                 :        02.06.2016
                                   JUDGEMENT
the possession of the suit property i.e. property bearing no. A5B, Himgiri
Enclave, Chander Vihar, Nitholi Extension, Nangloi, Delhi­41, also known as
B­10, Himgiri Enclave, Chander Vihar, Nitholi Extension, Nangloi, Delhi­41
measuring 50 sq. yrds, as shown in the red colour in the site plan Ex. PW1/20
and it is specifically directed to the defendants/LR of the defendants to hand
over the possession of the suit property i.e. property bearing no. A5B,
Himgiri Enclave, Chander Vihar, Nitholi Extension, Nangloi, Delhi­41 also
known as B­ 10, Himgiri Enclave, Chander Vihar, Nitholi Extension, Nangloi,
Delhi­41 measuring 50 sq. yrds as shown in the red colour in the site plan Ex.
PW1/20, to the plaintiff within a period of four weeks from today, failing of
which would entitle the plaintiff to have decree CS No. 962/14 Manju vs
Jaswinder Singh Page 37 of 38 executed in accordance with law.
10­ Cost of the suit including the Court fee which is annexed with the plaint,
is also awarded in favour of the plaintiff.
11­ Decree Sheet be drawn accordingly. File be consigned to Record Room.
    Announced in the open Court 
        Also known as:­
        B­10, Himgiri Enclave,
        Chander Vihar, Nitholi Extension,
        Nangloi, Delhi­110041
    (A) Smt. Inderjit Kaur       (LR of defendant no.1
                                  and originally defendant no.2)
          W/o Late Sh. Jaswinder Singh
    (B) Sh. Rajender Singh (LR of defendant no.1)
          S/o Late Jaswinder Singh
    CS No. 962/14
    Manju vs Jaswinder Singh                                          Page 1 of 38
     Both R/o (LR no. A & B of defendant no.1)
    A­5B, Himgiri Enclave,
    Chander Vihar, Nitholi Extension,
    Nangloi, Delhi­110041. 
    Also known as:­
    B­10, Himgiri Enclave,
    Chander Vihar, Nitholi Extension,
    Nangloi, Delhi­110041. 
    (C) Sh. Jagmit Singh (LR of defendant no.1)
    S/o Late Sh. Jaswinder Singh 
    (D)Sh. Ranjit Singh (LR of defendant no.1)
    S/o Late Sh. Jaswinder Singh
    Both R/o (LR no. C & D of Defendant no. 1)
    B­122, Chander Vihar, Nangloi,
    Delhi­110041.                                           ... Defendants
                               SUIT FOR POSSESSION
    Date of institution of case                       :        27.04.2007
    Reserved for judgment                             :        02.04.2016
    Date of pronouncement of judgment                 :        02.06.2016
                                   JUDGEMENT
the possession of the suit property i.e. property bearing no. A5B, Himgiri
Enclave, Chander Vihar, Nitholi Extension, Nangloi, Delhi­41, also known as
B­10, Himgiri Enclave, Chander Vihar, Nitholi Extension, Nangloi, Delhi­41
measuring 50 sq. yrds, as shown in the red colour in the site plan Ex. PW1/20
and it is specifically directed to the defendants/LR of the defendants to hand
over the possession of the suit property i.e. property bearing no. A5B,
Himgiri Enclave, Chander Vihar, Nitholi Extension, Nangloi, Delhi­41 also
known as B­ 10, Himgiri Enclave, Chander Vihar, Nitholi Extension, Nangloi,
Delhi­41 measuring 50 sq. yrds as shown in the red colour in the site plan Ex.
PW1/20, to the plaintiff within a period of four weeks from today, failing of
which would entitle the plaintiff to have decree CS No. 962/14 Manju vs
Jaswinder Singh Page 37 of 38 executed in accordance with law.
10­ Cost of the suit including the Court fee which is annexed with the plaint,
is also awarded in favour of the plaintiff.
11­ Decree Sheet be drawn accordingly. File be consigned to Record Room.
    Announced in the open Court 
