Gujarat High Court
Gujarat Mineral Development ... vs Commissioner Of Income-Tax, ... on 10
August, 1982
Equivalent citations: (1983) 34 CTR Guj 250, 1983 143 ITR 822 Guj
JUDGMENT AHMADI J. - The assessee, the Gujarat Mineral Development Corporation
Ltd., is a State owned limited company incorporated under the Companies Act,
1956. It is carrying on business of mineral development and development of
mines, extraction of ores, etc., including the business of extraction of
fluorspar. It secured from the Government of Gujarat a mining lease in respect
of Survey No. 40 admeasuring, 1,530 acres situate in the revenue limits of
village Amba Dungar, Taluka Chhota-Udepur, district Baroda. At the relevant
point of time M/s. Mineral Mining Company, Madras, had a prospecting license
for extracting fluorspar in respect of Survey No. 30 admeasuring about 1,733
acres situate adjacent to Survey No. 40 held by the assessee. The said Madras
Company had applied on September 11, 1957, for a prospecting license in
respect of Survey No. 30 under the Mines and Minerals Act, 1948. The
Government of Gujarat granted to the said company a prospecting license on
August 27, 1962. Thereafter, the said company made an application for the
grant of a mining lease in respect of that survey number on June 6, 1963.
While that application was pending, it prepared a prospecting report on
is received by the assessee or accrues to him as a result of the
extinguishment of the rights in the capital asset. This decision was followed
in the case of Vania Silk Mills [1977] 107 ITR 300 (Guj), also. The decision
in R.M. Amins case [1971] 82 ITR 194 (Guj), was carried to the Supreme Court,
vide [1977] 106 ITR 368, and the Supreme Court, without entering into the
question whether existence of consideration must be established to attract the
provisions of s. 45 of the Act, held that there was no transfer within the
meaning of s. 2(47) of the Act. Therefore, so far as we are concerned, in view
of the decision in R.M. Amins case which was followed in the case of Vania
Silk Mills, we must hold that in the absence of consideration, section 45
would not attracted and hence deduction by way of short-term capital loss is
not available to the assessee. We must, therefore, answer this contention also
against the assessee and in favour of the Revenue.
So far as the expenditure of Rs. 20,40,000 is concerned, the same has been
allowed as revenue expenditure by the decision of this court in CIT v. Gujarat
Mineral Development Corporation [1981] 132 ITR 377, in the assessment year
While that application was pending, it prepared a prospecting report on
November 9, 1963, and submitted it to the State Government in support of its
claim for a mining lease. However, the Government of Gujarat, by its order
dated March 4, 1964, rejected its application for the grant of a mining lease.
The said order was challenged in revision but the Govt. of India rejected the
revision application on May 26, 1965. As its application for the grant of a
mining lease was thus rejected, the Madras company field a Civil Suit No, 1552
of 1964 in the Civil Court at Baroda and also field a writ petition, being
Special Civil Application No. 829 of 1965, in this court. Certain interim
orders were obtained in the said proceedings whereby the Govt. of Gujarat was
restrained from giving the said survey number on lease to any other party. It
appears that in the meantime the assessee had also applied for a mining lease
in respect of Survey No. 30. The assessee-Corporation, therefore, with a view
of to expanding its business and avoiding competition on the adjacent land and
with a view to getting the required raw material for the desired number of
years, agreed to pay a sum of Rs. 3 lakhs to the Madras company on the said
company agreeing to give up its claim for a mining lease in respect of Survey
No. 30. An agreement was executed in that behalf on November 12, 1969, annex.
"F". After setting out the history leading to the institution of the suit and
the writ petition by the Madras company, the agreement proceeds to recite as
under :
"AND whereas the Corporation has spent considerable amount for mining and has
also invested over Rs. 3 crores for erecting a beneficiation plant for the
aforesaid mineral at the aforesaid area.
AND whereas 11.6 million tonnes of fluorspar deposits assessed by the
geological survey of India under their report are spread over Survey Nos. 30
and 40, the beneficiation plant being put up by the Corporation could run for
the desired number of years only when deposits of both the aforesaid Survey
Nos. are made available to the Corporation. It is, therefore, advisable and
necessary for the Corporation to obtain from the Govt. of Gujarat a mining
lease of the aforesaid Survey No. 30 having vast quantities of the aforesaid
mineral which the Corporation would not have unless the aforesaid suit and
special civil application are finally disposed of which is likely to take
considerable time a stated above.
AND whereas the Corporation in view of business expediency and in order to
avoid competition on the adjoining area and with a view to get the required
raw material for the desired number of years, the Corporation and the company
entered into negotiations for settlement of the matter and thereby clearing
the way of the Corporation in obtaining mining lease of the aforesaid Survey
No. 30 from the Government of Gujarat.
AND whereas in consideration of the Corporation awarding andor paying a lump
sum amount of Rs. 3,00,000 (rupees three lakhs only) to the company, the
company has agreed to withdraw the aforesaid suit and aforesaid special civil
application and to vacate the aforesaid Survey No. 30 and to furnish the copy
of the prospecting report, data and other information to the Corporation."
It was for the aforesaid reasons set out in the agreement that the assessee
paid a sum of Rs. 3,00,000 to the Madras company on receipt whereof the latter
withdrew the civil suit as well as the writ petition and vacated Survey No. 30
with a view to facilitating the assessee to obtain a mining lease in respect
of that land. The assessee claimed deduction of the said amount of Rs.
3,00,000 as revenue expenditure in computing the total income for the
assessment year 1970-71. The ITO, however, held that the said expenditure was
of a capital nature and rejected the claim for deduction. In appeal the AAC
also took the view that the expenditure in question was incurred with a view
to persuading the Madras company to withdraw the pending litigation and
further with a view to avoiding competition and since the benefit derived was
of an enduring nature, the expenditure was rightly disallowed as it was in the
nature of capital expenditure. The assessee carried the matter in appeal
before the Income-tax Appellate Tribunal, Ahmedabad (Bench B), which relying
on two decision of the Supreme Court in R.B. Seth Moolchand v. CIT [1972] 86
ITR 647 and Mewar Sugar Mills Ltd. v. CIT [1973] 87 ITR 400, held that, on the
facts and in the circumstances of the case, it was clear that the expenditure
was incurred to obtain an enduring benefit with a view to ultimately securing
a mining lease in respect of Survey No. 30 and was, therefore, clearly in the
nature of capital expenditure as held by the authorities below. It expressed
its inability to accept the proposition that the impugned expenditure was
incurred with a view to securing the required stock-in-trade. The assessee
feeling aggrieved by the view taken by the authorities below, sought a
reference and the Tribunal formulated the following two points for our
determination :
"(1) Whether, on the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the Tribunal
was right in law in holding that the assessee was not entitled to the
deduction of Rs. 3 lakhs paid to M/s. Mineral Mining Co. Ltd. ?
(2) Whether, on the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the
expenditure of Rs. 3 lakhs paid to M/s. Mineral Mining Co. Ltd. was revenue
expenditure or capital expenditure ?"
For reasons which we shall presently indicate, we are of the view that the
impugned expenditure was in the nature of capital expenditure and, therefore,
the view taken by the authorities below that the assessee was not entitle to
deduction of the amount of Rs. 3 lakhs as revenue expenditure was correct. We
are, therefore, of the opinion that question No. (1) must be answered in the
affirmative and question No. (2) must be answered by stating that the impugned
expenditure was in the nature of capital expenditure. In other words, both the
questions must be answered in favour of the Revenue and against the assessee.
Even though the question whether a particular expenditure is capital or
revenue expenditure frequently arises, no precise definition or universal text
has been evolved by courts to determine its character and different tests have
been applied from time to time in the backdrop of facts and circumstances of
each individual case for determining the question posed before the court. It
is impossible to evolve a strait jacket formula for determining whether a
particular expenditure is capital expenditure or revenue expenditure because
it is not possible to conceive of all the diverse situations in which
expenditure is incurred by an assessee. In the book Advanced Accounting,
Vol.2, by Yorston Smith Brown 6th Edn., the learned authors observation at
p.324 as under :
"The distinction between capital and revenue expenditure is that the former is
for property having a life duration extending over several accounting periods,
whereas the latter is an expenditure for property which will be consumed
within the current accounting period."
Lord Dunedin in Vallambrosa Rubber Co. Ltd. v. Farmer [1910] 5 TC 529 (C
Sess), observed that "in a rough way", it was "not a bad criterion of what is
capital expenditure as against what is income expenditure to say that capital
expenditure is a thing that is going to be spent once and for all and income
expenditure is a thing which is going to recur every year." This statement was
qualified by Lord Cave in Atherton v. British Insulated and Helsby Cables Ltd.
[1926] AC 205; [1925] 10 TC 155, 192 (HL), in the following words :
"When an expenditure is made, not only once and for all, but with a view to
bringing into existence an asset or an advantage for the enduring benefit of a
trade, I think that there is very good reason (in the absence of special
circumstances leading to an opposite conclusion) for treating such an
expenditure as properly attributable, not to revenue, but to capital."
The words "enduring benefit of a trade" were explained to mean not
"everlasting", but, "in the way capital endures" in Henrikesen v. Grafton
Hotel Ltd. [1942] 234 TC 453; [1943] 11 ITR (Suppl.) 1 (CA). N. H. Bhagwati J.
in Assam Bengal Cement Co. Ltd. v. CIT [1955] 27 ITR 34, 45, (SC), observed :
"In cases where the expenditure is made for the initial outlay or for
extension of a business or a substantial replacement of the equipment, there
is no doubt that it is capital expenditure. A capital asset of the business is
either acquired or extended or substantially replaced and that outlay whatever
be its source whether it is drawn from the capital or the income of the
concern is certainly in the nature of capital expenditure. The question,
however, arises for consideration where expenditure is incurred while the
business is going on and is not incurred either for extension of the business
or for the substantial replacement of its equipment. Such expenditure can be
looked at either from the point of view of what is acquired or from the point
of view of what is the source from which the expenditure is incurred. If the
expenditure is made for acquiring or bringing into existence an asset or
advantage for the enduring benefit of the business it is properly attributable
to capital and is of the nature of capital expenditure. If on the other hand
it is made not for the purpose of bringing into existence any such asset or
advantage bur for running the business or working it with a view to produce
the profits it is a revenue expenditure. If any such asset or advantage for
the enduring benefit of the business is thus acquired or brought into
existence it would be immaterial whether the source of the payment was the
capital or the income of the concern or whether the payment was made once and
for all or was made periodically. The aim and object of the expenditure would
determine the character of the expenditure whether it is a capital expenditure
or a revenue expenditure. The source or the manner of the payment would then
be of no consequence."
The second test of fixed and circulating capital was applied by Lord Haldane
in John Smith and Son v. Moore [1921] 12 TC 266 (HL), in the following words
(p. 282) :
".... fixed capital as what the owner turns to profit by keeping it in his won
possession, circulating capital as what he makes profit of by parting with it
and letting it change masters."
The Judicial Committee in Tata Hydro-Electric Agencies Ltd. v. CIT [1937] 5
ITR 202, 209 (PC) observed :
"What is money wholly and exclusively laid out for the purposes of the trade
is a question which must be determined upon the principle of ordinary
commercial trading. It is necessary, accordingly, to attend to the true nature
of the expenditure, and to ask oneself the question, is it a part of the
companys working expenses; it is expenditure laid out as part of the process
of profit earning ?"
In IRC v. Granite City Steamship Co. Ltd. [1927] 13 TC 1, 14 (C Sess), Lord
Sands characterised as capital an outlay made for the initiation of a
business, for extension of a business, or for a substantial replacement of
equipment. That is why N. H. Bhagwati J. in the case of Assam Bengal Cement
Co. Ltd.s case [1955] 27 TIR 34, 45 (SC). observed :
"If the expenditure is made for acquiring or bringing into existence an asset
or advantage for the enduring benefit of the business it is properly
attributable to capital and is of the nature of capital expenditure."
It becomes obvious from the aforesaid tests that if the expenditure is
incurred with a view to bringing into existence an asset or an advantage for
the enduring benefit of the trade, it would, unless the circumstances show
otherwise, be in the nature of a capital expenditure. Where the expenditure is
incurred for extension of a business or for a substantial replacement of the
equipment, it would again be capital expenditure. If the expenditure is
incurred with a view to acquiring a capital asset such expenditure would also
be in the nature of capital expenditure. If any asset or advantage for the
enduring benefit of the business is acquired or brought into existence, the
amount spent, no matter from which source, would be in the nature of capital
expenditure and not revenue expenditure. It is not necessary in all cases that
the amount must be paid once and for all because in a given cases the payment
may be spread over a period mutually agreed upon. The test is that if the
expenditure is incurred in the direction of acquisition of a capital asset, or
advantage for the enduring benefit of the business, such expenditure would be
in the nature of capital expenditure even if it is not incurred once for all
and is spread over a period mutually agreed upon. It would depend on the aim
and object of the expenditure for if the expenditure is incurred for the
acquisition of a capital asset. It would be in the nature of capital
expenditure : but if, on the other hand, it is incurred for running the
business or working it with a view to producing profits, it would be a revenue
expenditure.
Bearing in mind the aforesaid test, it is necessary to inquire whether the
expenditure incurred by the assessee for the twin objective of driving out a
competitor and paying the way for the ultimate acquisition of a mining lease
in respect of Survey No. 30 was in the direction of acquisition of a capital
asset so as to be termed a capital expenditure or was merely with a view to
enlarging its stock-in-trade, since the fluorspar deposits in Survey No. 40
were not considered enough to last over the required expenditure. In Kamakshya
Narain Singh v. CIT [1943] 11 ITR 513 (PC), receipt and payments in connection
with acquiring or disposing of leaseholds of mines or minerals were held to be
on capital account. That is because they concerned an outlay of fixed capital
and not circulating capital. Channell J. in Alianza Co. v. Bell [1904] 23 KB
666 (KB) held that the price paid for the purchase of mining rights is capital
expenditure. In Mohanlal Hargovind v. CIT [1949] 17 ITR 473 (PC), the
assessee, a bidi manufacturer, had entered into short-term contracts with the
Government and other forest owners to pick up tendu leaves used to roll bidis
from the forest. Under the contract the assessee had a right of entry into the
forest for collecting the leaves and to coppice small tendu plants and to
pollard tendu trees but he had no interest in the forest land as such. The
Privy Council held that the contracts were for the purpose of securing
supplies of tendu leaves for the business of the assessee. These contracts did
not grant any interest in land or the trees to the assessee. It was in these
special facts that the Privy Council came to the conclusion that the
expenditure incurred in acquiring the raw material (tendu leaves) was in a
business sense an expenditure on revenue account, and not on capital account,
just as much if the tendu leaves had been bought in a shop. Referring to the
decision in Alianza Companys case [1904] 2 KB 66 6 (KB), their Lordships
observe that it was a case of a company whose object was treated as one to
work and develop a bed containing a substance called cliche from which
nitrates and iodine could be obtained by a process of manufacture. It was
analogous to the purchase or leasing of a mine and was obviously capital
expenditure. In other words, the decision and was obviously capital
expenditure. In other words, the decision in Alianza Companys case was
distinguished having regard to the object in acquiring the lease and the
nature of the lease. The Court of Appeal in Stow Bardolph Gravel Co. Ltd. v.
Poole [1954] 35 TC 459; [1955] 27 ITR 146, was concerned with a company
carrying on business of selling sand and gravel Co, Ltd. v. Poole [1954] 35 TC
459; [195] 27 ITR 146, was concerned with a company carrying on business of
selling sand and gravel. It had purchased two unworked deposits and it claimed
that the payment made by it for purchasing the said deposits should be
deducted from its profits as being expenditure for acquiring its trading
stock. Relying on the decision in Golden Horse Shoe (New) Ltd. v. Thurgood
[1933] 18 TC 280 (CA), the court held that the company had acquired the
capital asset and not a stock-in-trade because what was purchased was a part
of the land itself, namely, the gravel in situ. In Gotan Lime Syndicate v. CIT
[1966] 59 ITR 718 (SC), the assessee-firm, which carried on the business of
manufacturing time from limestone, had secured under a lease deed, the right
to excavate limestone in certain areas. The lease was for a period of five
years within option for renewal for another period of five years. Dead rent
was to be charged at Rs. 10 per acre while royalty was to be charged at 1 as.
6. ps.per maund of lump lime and 1 as, per maund of limestone. The lessee was
prohibited from carrying away any other minerals which might be found in the
area and he was further obliged to allow other lessees of these minerals to go
on the land and win them. It was held that in the absence of material to show
that any part of the royalty had to be treated as premium and referable to the
acquisition of the mining lease, the royalty payment. Including the dead rent,
had relation only to the lime deposits to be got and had, therefore, to be
treated as revenue expenditure. According to that decision, payment by way of
royalty or dead rent was not direct payment for securing an enduring
advantage. It was, therefore, thought that it had relation to the raw material
to be obtained from the land in question. It is clear from this decision that
if premium was required to be paid, it would have been considered to be a
capital expenditure and not a revenue expenditure.
In Pingle Industries Ltd. v. CIT [1960] 40 ITR 67, the Supreme Court by
majority (S.K. Das J., dissenting) held that where an assessee acquires by a
long-term lease the right to win stones, in situ, he acquires a capital asset
from which, after extraction, he can convert the stones into his stock-in-
trade. In such a case if a lump sum payment is made for acquiring a capital
asset of enduring benefit to his trade, such expenditure would be no capital
account and would not be allowable deduction. That was a case where the
assessee-company which carried on the business of selling Shahabad flag
stones, obtained under a contract the right to extract stones from quarries
for a period of 12 years on the annual payment of Rs. 28,000. To safeguard the
payment a sum of Rs. 96,000 was paid in advance as security of which Rs. 8,000
was to be adjusted annually against Rs. 28,000 and the balance of Rs. 20,000
was payable in monthly installments of Rs.1,666-10-8. The assessee had only
the right to excavate stones and undertook not to manufacture cement and the
owner undertook not to allow any other person to excavate stones in those
areas. The question was, whether the amounts paid by the assessee to the owner
was in the nature of capital expenditure or revenue expenditure allowable
under s. 12(2)(xv) of the Hyderabad Income-tax Act, corresponding to s.
10(2)(xv) of the Indian I.T. Act, 1922. In the backdrop of these facts the
Supreme Court, by majority, held that since the assessee acquired by him long-
term lease the right to win stones, he had acquired a right in the land and,
therefore, a capital asset, and the outgoing were, therefore, on capital
account.
In R.B. Seth Moolchand Suganchand v. CIT [1972] 86 ITR 647 (SC), relied upon
by the Tribunal, the assessee-firm paid a sum of Rs. 1,53,800 to acquire a
lease of certain areas of land bearing mica for a period of twenty years.
Those areas had already been worked for fifteen years by other lessees. The
question was, whether a proportionate part of the amount was allowable in the
relevant years as business expenditure. It was held that the amount was paid
for acquiring a right of an enduring nature to extract and remove the mica and
bring it to the surface and, therefore, the expenditure incurred was capital
expenditure and the proportionate part of the sum of Rs. 1,53,800 was not
allowable as revenue expenditure. In that case the Supreme Court observed that
in the case of mining lease, where minerals have to be won, extracted and
brought to the surface, expenditure for acquiring the right over or in the
land to win the minerals would be of a capital nature; but where the mineral
has already been gotten and is on the surface, then the expenditure incurred
for obtaining the right to acquired the raw material would be revenue
expenditure laid out for the acquisition of stock-in-trade.
Strong reliance was placed by Mr. J.P. Shah on the decision of the Supreme
Court in M.A. Jabbar v. CIT [1968] 68 ITR 493. That was case of an assessee,
who was carrying on business of supplying lime and sand. He took a lease for a
term of eleven months, whereby he obtained exclusive right and liberty to
enter, occupy and use for quarrying purpose and to raise, render marketable,
carry away, sell and dispose of sand within, or under or upon land
constituting the bends of a river and certain nallahs specified in the lease.
The lease money of Rs. 82,500 was paid by the appellant in two sums of Rs.
56,100 and Rs. 26,400 respectively. It was found as a fact that the contract
was for removal of sand lying on the surface of the river beds, that all the
sand that could be removed was lying on the surface, and that no exacvation or
skillful extraction was to be performed on the land before obtaining it. It
was, therefore, held having regard to the fact that the assessee acquired
merely the right to remove the sand lying loose on the land and that too for a
short period of eleven months only, he did not acquire any fixed or capital
asset of an enduring nature by obtaining the lease. The Supreme Court,
therefore, ruled that the expenditure was of a revenue nature. The Lordships
observed that the fact the an interest in land s was also conveyed by the
lease was not decisive of the question whether the money payable under the
lease was capital expenditure or a revenue expenditure. The decisive factor is
the object with which the lease is taken and the nature of the payment which
is made when obtaining the lease. This decision was considered by the Supreme
Court in R.B. Seth Moolchands case [1972] 86 ITR 647 and it was observed that
the right to take away sand from the surface of the river beds must be treated
as if the sand was stock-in-trade in the same way as the right to pick tendu
leaves was tested by the Privy Council in Mohanlal Hargovinds case [1949] 17
ITR 473 (PC). Their Lordships then laid down the following test (p. 651 of 86
ITR) :
"If we confine our attention to the mining leases, what appears to us to be an
empirical test is that where minerals have to be won, extracted and brought to
surface by mining operations, the expenditure incurred for acquiring such a
right would be of a capital nature. But, where the mineral has already been
gotten and is on the surface, then the expenditure incurred for obtaining the
right to acquire the raw material, that is, the mineral, would be a revenue
expenditure laid out for the acquisition of stock-in-trade."
It was, however, argued by Mr. J.P. Shah that in the year in which payment was
made by the assessee to the Madras company, no capital asset was acquired and,
therefore, the expenditure must be taken on revenue account. In support of
this submission he placed strong reliance on the decision of the Supreme Court
in Empire Jute Co. Ltd. v. CIT [1980] 124 ITR 1. However, before we consider
the effect of this decision we may refer to the decision of the Supreme Court
in CIT v. Coal Shipments P. Ltd. [1971] 82 ITR 902, wherein the Supreme Court
observed that where payment is made to ward off competition in business to a
rival, it would constitute capital expenditure if the object of making that
payment is to derive an advantage by eliminating the competition over some
length of time; how long the period of contemplated advantage should be, in
order to constitute enduring benefit, would depend on the circumstances, and
the facts of each individual case.
The Punjab and Harayana High Court in Dalmia Dadri Cement Ltd. v. CIT [1973] d
90 ITR 297, was concerned with a case where the assessee had placed an order
with a German company for the supply of a dryer plant for his cement
manufacturing business and, as desired by the German firm, opened an
irrevocable letter of credit for pound 32,000 in its favour. Sub-sequently on
account of some difference regarding the specifications of the plant, the
assessee requested the bankers to cancel the letter of credit but were told
that the letter of credit could not be cancelled without the consent of the
German firm which refused to release the letter of credit. Ultimately, a
compromise was struck whereby the letter of credit was released on payment of
pound 15,000 to the German firm. This amount was claimed by the assessee as
revenue expenditure and was not a permissible deduction under s. 10(2)(xv) of
the Indian I.T. Act, 1922. The High Court observed that the expenditure
incurred for the acquisition of a plant was surely of a capital nature and
could not be claimed as deduction on revenue account merely because the
capital asset, namely, a dryer plant, was not acquired.
In State Trading Corporation of India Ltd. v. CIT [1974] 94 ITR 496 (Delhi),
the assessee, which had to abandon its proposal to construct a building as the
land meant for the building was acquired by the Government, had yet to pay a
sum of Rs. 10,000 as fees to certain architects for the preparation of the
plan for construction of the proposed building. The capital asset, namely, the
building, did not in fact come into existence. The amount was claimed by way
of deduction as revenue expenditure but the claim was disallowed on the ground
that the amount paid to the architects was on capital account since the
expenditure was incurred for deriving a benefit of an enduring nature, the
subsequent abounding of the building project notwithstanding.
It becomes clear from the aforesaid three decisions to which our attention was
drawn that if expenditure is incurred to ward off competition with a view to
deriving an advantage of an enduring nature, the expenditure incurred is on
capital account and not on revenue account. So also, if expenditure is
incurred with a view to acquiring a capital asset, such expenditure is
incurred with a view to acquiring a capital asset, such expenditure is on
capital account regardless of the fact whether the capital asset is ultimately
acquired or not. These decision, therefore, clearly negative the contention
which was urged by Mr. J. P. Shah, learned counsel for the assessee.
On the resume of the above case-law, the following tests emerge :
(1) When expenditure is incurred not only once and for all, and with a view to
bringing into existence an asset or an advantage for the enduring benefit of a
trade, ordinarily such expenditure is on capital account.
(2) Where the expenditure is incurred in the field of fixed capital, it is on
capital account, but if it is a part of the circulating capital, it is on
revenue account.
(3) If the expenditure is a part of the working expenses in ordinary
commercial trading, it is not capital but revenue expenditure.
(4) If the expenditure is incurred for the initial outlay or for extension of
business or substantial replacement of equipment, it is capital expenditure
but if it is incurred for running the business or is laid out as part of the
process of profit-making, it is revenue in character, and (5) If expenditure
is incurred for ensuring the regular supply of raw material, may be for
periods extending over several years, it is on revenue account.
But before we apply these tests, we must deal with the submission of Mr. J.P.
Shah, the learned counsel for the assessee, who venhemently contended before
us that as pointed out by the Supreme Court in Empire Jute Companys case
[1980] 124 ITR 1 (SC), these tests are not conclusive and are found to have
broken down. According to the learned counsel, the Supreme Court, therefore,
sider tracked these tests and evolved a new test to the effect that in order
that an expenditure can be said to have been incurred on capital account, it
must be shown that a capital asset has come into existence otherwise, the
expenditure must be taken to be of revenue nature. Bhagwati J., who spoke for
the Supreme court, after reproducing the test laid down by Lord Cave in
Athertons case [1926] AC 205 (HL), observed as under (p. 10 of 124 ITR) :
"This test, as the parenthetical clause shows, must yield where there are
special circumstances leading to a contrary conclusion and, as pointed out by
Lord Radcliffe in Commissioner of Taxes v. Nchanga Consolidated Copper Mines
Ltd. [1965] 58 ITR 241 (PC), it would be misleading to suppose that in all
cases, securing a benefit for the business would be, prima facie, capital
expenditure, so long as the benefit is not so transitory as to have no
endurance at all. There may be cases where expenditure, even if incurred for
obtaining a advantage of enduring benefit, may, none the less, be on revenue
account and the test of enduring benefit may break down. It is not every
advantage of enduring nature acquired by an assessee that brings the case
within the principle laid down in this test. What is material to consider is
the nature of the advantage in a commercial sense and it is only where the
advantage is in the capital field that the expenditure would be disallowable
on an application of this test. If the advantage consists merely in
facilitating the assessees trading operations or enabling the management and
conduct of the assessees business to be carried on more efficiently or more
profitably while leaving the fixed capital untouched, the expenditure would be
on revenue account, even though the advantage may endure for an indefinite
future. The test of enduring benefit is, therefore, not a certain or
conclusive test and it cannot be applied blindly and mechanically without
regard to the particular facts and circumstances of a given case."
These observations, in our opinion, do not say that the test evolved by Lord
Cave cannot be applied even if the facts for its application are laid before
the court. The Supreme Court has merely stated that the test of enduring
benefit is not a conclusive test and ought not to be applied blindly and
mechanically without regard to the particular facts and circumstances of the
given case. It has at the same time stated that where the expenditure is in
the capital field, the expenditure would be allowable on an application of
this test. Therefore, the submission of Mr. Shah that the Supreme Court in the
decision of Empire Jute Co. Ltd. [1980] 123 ITR 1, sider tracked all the
earlier tests and evolved a new test of universal application cannot be
accepted. Dealing with the second test applied by Lord Haldane by drawing the
distinction between fixed capital and circulating capital, the Supreme Court
observed as under (p. 11 of 124 ITR) :
"But this test also sometimes breaks down because there are many formal
expenditure which do not fall easily within these two categories and not
infrequently, as pointed out by Lord Radcliffe in Commissioner of Taxes v.
Nachanga Consolidated Copper Mines Ltd. [1965] 58 ITR 241 (PC), the line of
demarcation is difficult to draw and leads to subtle distinctions between
profit that is made out of assets and profit that is made upon assets or with
assets. Moreover, there may be cases where expenditure, thought referable to
or in connection with fixed capital, is nevertheless allowable as revenue
expenditure. An illustrative example would be of expenditure incurred in
preserving g or maintaining capital assets. This test is, therefore, clearly
not one of universal application."
These observations do not lay down, as argued by Mr. J.P. Shah for the
assessee, that the said test evolved by Lord Haldane is outdated and cannot be
applied even if the facts of given case attract its application.
At this stage we may also refer to the observation of N.H. Bhagwati J.in Assam
Bengal Cement Co.s case [1955] 27 ITR 34 (SC), where he pointed out that this
test can be applied only if the test evolved by Lord Cace is not attracted.
The learned judge, speaking for the Supreme Court stated (p. 45) :
"It is only in those cases where this test is of no avail that one may go to
the test of fixed or circulating capital and consider whether the expenditure
incurred was part of the fixed capital of the business or part of its
circulating capital. If it was part of the fixed capital of the business it
would be of the nature of capital expenditure and if it was part of its
circulating capital it would be of the nature of revenue expenditure. These
tests are thus morally exclusive and above indicated.... One has therefore got
to apply these criteria one after the other form the business point of view
and come to the conclusion whether on fair appreciation of the whole situation
the expenditure incurred in a particular case is of the nature of capital
expenditure or revenue expenditure in which latter event only it would be a
deductible allowance under section 10(2)(xv) of the Income-tax Act."
It would, therefore, appeal from the above observations of the Supreme Court
that the test of fixed capital or circulating capital could be invoked only if
the test of acquisition of an asset or an advantage for the enduring benefit
of a trade, has no application to the facts of a given case. In the Empire
Jute Companys case [1980] 124 ITR 1, the Supreme Court has not stated that
these tests are no more relevant and that an expenditure would be on revenue
account even if it was incurred for the acquisition of a capital asset or
advantage of an enduring nature if the assessees fixed capital remains
untouched, meaning thereby, remains unargumented. It must be remembered that
their Lordships and come to the conclusion that the allotment of loom hours,
under the working time agreement, to different mills constituted not a right
conferred but merely a contractual restriction on the right of every mill to
work its looms to their full capacity, and purchase of loom hours by a mill
had, therefore, the effect of relaxing the restriction on the operation of
looms to the extent of the number of working house per week transferred to it,
so that the transferee-mill could work it looms hours no new asset was created
and there was no addition to or expansion of the profit-making apparatus of
the assessee. In other words, acquisition of additional loom hours did not add
to the fixed capital of the assessee, the permanent structure of which the
income was the product or fruit, remained the same, that is, unenlarged. It is
the special facts of that case that the Supreme Court came to the conclusion
that the profit-making apparatus of the assessee remained untouched and
unaltered; there was no enlargement of the permanent structure and what the
assessee acquired was merely an advantage in the nature of relaxation of
restriction on working hours imposed by the working time agreement so that it
could operate its profit-earning structure for a longer number of hours. It
was in the backdrop of these facts that the Supreme Court came to the
conclusion that the payment made for the acquisition of additional loom hours
could not be said to be in the direction of acquiring a capital asset because
no capital asset was in fact acquired as the profit-making apparatus of the
assessee was not enlarged and, therefore, the expenditure must be taken to be
on revenue account. That, however, does not mean that even if an expenditure
is made with a view to acquiring a capital asset or an advantage of an
enduring nature and the case falls directly within the test laid down by Lord
Cave and there are no circumstances pointing to the contrary, the expenditure
would still be on revenue account if no fixed asset or advantage for the
enduring benefit of trade is ultimately acquired. We are, therefore, of the
view that the decision of the Supreme Court does not go so far as to say that
the tests evolved by the courts earlier are not relevant and in order that an
expenditure could be branded as on capital account, the Revenue must show that
the assessee has acquired a fixed asset or an advantage of an enduring nature
by the expenditure so incurred.
The next case to which our attention was drawn by Mr. J. P. Shah the learned
advocate for the assessee, is the decision of a Division Bench of this court
in CIT v. Gujarat Mineral Development Corporation [1981] 132 ITR 377. In that
case the assessee, who was the assessee before us, paid a sum of Rs. 20.40
lakhs to the Gujarat Electricity Board being 50 per cent. of the total amount
spent by the G.E.B. for laying electric cables and electric supply
transmission lines, etc., for the beneficiation plant of the assessee to
enable it to separate waste material from useful material. The lines, cables
and transmission lines were to be the property of the G.E.B. In the accounting
years 1967-68, the assessee had shown in its books of account an amount of Rs.
19,00,000 as having been paid by way of advance to the G.E.B. and in
subsequent years one seventh of the total amount of Rs. 20.46 lakhs as revenue
expenditure for the assessment year 1969-70. The Tribunal held that the
expenditure did not relate to the year under appeal and in any event it was a
capital expenditure. The High Court relying on the decision of the Supreme
Court in Empire Jute Companys case [1980] 124 ITR 1 held that even though the
electric supply lines were laid at the instance of the assessee by the G.E.B.
and even though the assessee contributed 50 per cent, of the cost for laying
such lines, the cables, lines and transmission lines remained the property of
the G.E.B. under the agreement and, therefore, the expenditure could not be
said to have been incurred by the assessee for acquisition of a capital asset.
This is how the Division Bench approached the question (p.388 of 132 ITR) :
"Applying the test laid down by the Supreme Court in Empire Jute Co.s case
[1980] 124 ITR 1 to the facts before us, it is clear that even if securing
electric supply for a period of seven years and longer, if the agreement to
supply is not terminated by the Electricity Board, is a benefit of an enduring
nature, if the advantage consisted in facilitating the assessees trading
operations and enable the assessee to conduct its business more efficiently
and more profitably, then, the expenditure would still be on revenue account
and not on capital account. The peculiar feature in this case is that the
amount was spent for securing electric supply for the beneficiation plant
which was intended to enable the assessee-company to carry on its business
more efficiently and more profitably. It was a business which was being
previously carried on by the assessee-company, namely, of extracting fluorspar
ore and selling it but in order to enable it to carry on that business to be
installed and the electric cables and supply lines were laid for that
beneficiation plant as has been pointed out by the Tribunal in its order. Once
the purpose of the beneficiation plant is properly understood, it is obvious
that the advantage consisted merely in facilitating the conduct of the
assessees business and enabling the assessee to carry on its business more
efficiently or nor profitably, but the capital, in the sense of the block
capital, was remaining untouched by the expenditure of this amount of Rs.
20.46 lakhs. Hence, in the commercial sense, it was not an advantage in the
capital field. Since it left the fixed capital of the assessee employed for
the main business of mining untouched and the advantage was not in the capital
field, it could not be said to be an expenditure of a capital nature."
It is thus obvious from the above observations that the court came to the
conclusion that the expenditure was on revenue account because it was of the
opinion that the expenditure was not incurred for the expansion of the
assessees beneficiation plant or for augmenting it s capital asset but merely
for faciliating the conduct of its business with a view to earning larger
profits. It was in these peculiar facts coupled with the fact that under the
agreement the cables, lines and transmission lines were tot remain the
property of G.E.B, that the court came to the conclusion that the expenditure
was incurred on revenue account. It is also necessary to bear in mind that
even on behalf of the Revenue it was not contended that the amount was spent
for acquisition of a capital asset. Therefore, it was not disputed by the
Revenue that the amount was spent by the assessee not for the acquisition of
any capital asset and since the company was already extracting fluorspar ore
and selling it even before this facility was extended to its beneficiation
plant, it was held that the additional facility was merely to augment the
profits of the assessee and was not in the direction of acquisition of a
capital asset. In our opinion, therefore, that decision turns on its own
facts.
The facts of this case clearly show that the expenditure of Rs. 3 lakhs was
incurred for the twin purpose of avoiding competition and clearing the way for
securing a mining lease in respect of Survey No. 30 from the Government of
Gujarat. The Madras company held a prospecting license in respect of Survey
No. 30 and it had already obtained a prospecting report and had applied for a
mining lease on September 11, 1957, in respect of that land from the State
Government under the Mines and Mineral (Regulation and Development) Act, 1948.
The said company had carried out prospecting operations under the prospecting
license granted to it and had got prepared a prospecting report dated November
9, 1963, as required by the Mines and Minerals (Regulation and Development)
Act, 1957, and the Mineral Company succeeds in obtaining a mining lease in
respect of the adjacent land bearing Survey No. 30, it might have to fact
stiff competition. With a view to avoiding competition and with a view to
securing the mining lease in respect of Survey No. 30, the assessee paid a sum
of Rs. 3 lakhs to the Madras company on receipt whereof the said company
agreed to withdraw the pending suit as well as the writ petition and further
agreed to furnish a copy of the prospecting report, data and other information
to the assessee. Now, s. 11(1) of the Mines and Minerals (Regulation and
Development) Act, 1957, lays down that where a prospecting license has been
granted in respect of any land, the licensee shall have a preferential right
for obtaining a mining lease in respect of that land over any other person
provided that the State Govt. is satisfied that the licensee has not committed
any breach of the terms and conditions of the prospecting license and is
otherwise a fit person or being granted the mining lease. On a plain reading
of this sub-section it is clear that the Madras company which had secured a
prospecting license had a preferential right for obtaining a mining lease in
respect of that land bearing Survey No. 30. The Madras company was refused a
mining lease by the State Govt. and its revision application was rejected by
the Central Government and, therefore, it had taken legal proceedings
challenging the said refusal. Those proceedings would have taken a number of
years for final disposal and could have ended in favour of the Madras company.
The assessee, therefore, thought that unless the Madras company is driven out
of the field, its endeavor to secure a mining lease in respect of Survey No.
30 would not materialise for a number of years. It was, therefore, for the
purpose of acquisition of the mining lease in respect of Survey No. 30 that
the assessee decided to pay a sum of Rs. 3 lakhs to the Madras company to
drive away a competitor having a preferential right to a mining lease. In the
course of the hearing of this reference we inquired of Mr. J.P. Shah, the
learned advocate for the assessee, if the assessee had ultimately succeeded in
obtaining a mining lease. He fairly placed before e us the original copy of
the indenture of March 31, 1971, whereby the assessee had secured a mining
lease in respect of Survey No. 30. By consent of parties a copy of this
agreement has been taken on record to complete the factual data. It would
appear from this lease deed that the assessee-company had been given a right
to extract fluorspar from Survey No. 30 and the duration of the lease is
twenty years with a renewal clause. We have, therefore, no hesitation in
coming to the conclusion that the amount of Rs. 3 lakhs was spent by the
assessee in the direction of acquisition of a capital asset, namely, a mining
lease from the state Government. It was a lump sum payment made once and for
all to the Madras company which held a prospecting license and the prospecting
report in respect of survey No. 30. The payment was made with a view to
achieving the twin objectives of driving away a keen competitor and clearing
the ground for the ultimate acquisition of a mining lease in respect of the
survey number. Therefore, the expenditure was incurred by the assessee with a
view to acquiring a capital asset, namely, a mining lease of a sufficiently
long duration. In fact, in course of time the assessee did acquire a mining
lease as is clear from a copy of the lease dated March 31, 1971, which gives
the assessee the right to extract fluorspar from Survey No. 30 also for a
duration of twenty years, which period could be extended by the invocation of
the renewal clause. Once an expenditure is incurred in the direction of
acquisition of capital asset, that expenditure is on capital account and the
character of that expenditure would not undergo a change merely because the
assessee did not succeed in acquiring the capital asset for which the
expenditure was initially made. If the expenditure is on capital account, it
is of no consequence whether ultimately the assessee succeeds or fails in
acquiring the capital asset. We do not read the decision of the Supreme Court
in Empire Jute Companys case [1980] 124 ITR 1, as laying down a universal test
that if capital asset is not ultimately acquired, the expenditure initially
incurred for acquisition of that capital asset would be on revenue account. We
are, therefore, of the opinion that in the facts and circumstances of the
present case, since the expenditure was incurred with twin objective of
driving out a competitor and clearing the way for the acquisition of a capital
asset, namely, mining lease, and the capital asset was ultimately acquired.
The expenditure incurred was on capital account and not on revenue account. It
is well settled that if under the terms of the mining lease, minerals have to
be won, extracted and brought to surface by mining operations the expenditure
incurred for acquisition of such a right would be of a capital nature but
where the mineral is already the right to acquire the raw material would be a
revenue expenditure laid out for the acquisition of stock-in-trade. In the
present case under the terms of the mining lease, fluorspar has to be won,
extracted and brought to surface by mining lease, fluorspar has to be won,
extracted and brought to surface by mining lease, fluorspar has to be won,
extract and brought to surface by mining operations, and, therefore, it cannot
be said that the expenditure was incurred for obtaining the right to acquire
the raw material, namely, fluorspar, for the acquisition of stock-in-trade and
must, therefore, be taken as spent on revenue account. We are, therefore, of
the opinion that having regard to the facts of the present case, the
expenditure of Rs. 3 lakhs was clearly for acquisition of a capital asset and
could not, therefore, be taken on revenue account. We are, therefore, in
agreement with the view expressed by the Tribunal on this count.
That brings us to the next question. In the assessment year 1970-71, the
assessee incurred an expenditure of Rs. 64,503 for the construction of a small
bridge over river Narmada for facilitating the laying of water pipes to the
assessees beneficiation plant. Due to heavy floods the approach bridge which
was under construction was washed away and the assessee wrote off the
expenditure and claimed it as a deduction. The ITO disallowed it on the ground
that it was a capital loss. The AAC in appeal agreed with the view of the ITO.
It was contended before the Tribunal that the said amount must be allowed
under s. 28(1) of the I.T. Act, 1961, because it reduced the real income of
the assessee. Alternatively it was submitted that it should be allowed as a
short-term capital loss because of the extinguishment of the capital asset.
That submission was negatived by the Tribunal since no consideration was
received by the assessee on the extinguishment of the capital asset. In taking
that view the Tribunal followed the decision of this court in CIT v.R.M. Amin
[1971] 82 ITR 194. The Tribunal also rejected the claim of allowance of
balancing loss or terminal allowance in view of Expln. (ii) to s. 34(2) of the
Act.
Similarly, for the assessment year 1971-72 the assessee-company wrote off a
sum of Rs. 7,19400 which, inter alia, included a sum of Rs. 2,26,496 for the
cost of the approach bridge washed away during the floods. The claim was
rejected by the ITO on the ground that it could never be allowed as a revenue
deduction nor could it be allowed as terminal loss under s. 32(1) of the Act.
This view was confirmed in appeal by the AAC. Before the Tribunal the very
same contentions were raised as in respect of the claim of Rs. 64,503 in the
assessment year 1970-71. The Tribunal rejected those contentions on the very
same grounds.
At the request of the assessee the Tribunal formulated the following two
points for our opinion :
"(3) Whether, on the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the Tribunal
was justified in not allowing the loss of Rs. 64,503 for A.Y. 1970-71 and Rs.
2,26,496 for A.Y. 1971-72 due to the washing away of the approach bride u/s.
28 and/or as short-term capital loss and/or as a terminal loss u/s. 32(1) of
the Act ?
(4) Whether, on the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the Tribunal
was justified in disallowing the expenditure of Rs. 20,40,000 for A.Y. 1970-71
and Rs. 2,92,285 for A.Y. 1971-72 spent for getting the use of electrical
power from Gujarat Electricity Board ?"
For reasons which we shall presently state, both the aforesaid questions must
be answered in the affirmative, that is, in favour of the Revenue and against
the assessee.
Mr. J.P. Shah, the learned counsel for the assessee did not press his
contention based on the language of s. 32(1)(iii) of the Act as the capital
asset was not put to sue and was washed away on both the occasions when it was
only partly complete. It is, therefore, required to consideration under s.
32(1)(iii) of the Act. So also, Mr. Shah did not press his claim for deduction
under s. 37(1) of the Act. We are, therefore, required to consider whether the
assessee was entitled to deduction of the expenditure incurred for the
construction of the bridges under s. 28(1) or s. 45 read with s. 2(47) of the
Act. Section 28(i) on which reliance was placed provides that the profits and
gains of any business or profession carried on by the assessee at any time
during the previous year shall be chargeable to income-tax under the head
"Profits and gains of business or profession". In order to determine the
profits and gains of any business it was urged by the learned counsel for the
assessee that all expenditure incurred by the assessee in the course of
business must be deducted and the real income of the assessee must be brought
to tax. In Badridas Daga v. CIT [1958] 34 ITR 10, the Supreme Court while
considering s. 10(1) of the Indian I.T. Act, 1922, stated that in computing
the profits of business, loss must be deducted. The loss for which a deduction
is claimed must be one that springs directly from the carrying on of the
business and is incidental thereto and not any loss sustained by the assessee
even if it has some connection with his business. If such loss is established,
the assessee must be allowed deduction even though an express provision in
that behalf is not engrafted in s. 10 of the Indian I.T. Act, 1922.
Again in CIT v. Nainital Bank Ltd. [1965] 55 ITR 707, the Supreme Court
observed that under s. 10(1) of the Indian I.T. Act, 1922, the trading loss of
a business is deductible in computing the profit earned by the business. Of
course, the loss must be incurred in carrying out the operation of the
business and must be incidental to the operation. Whether loss is incidental
to the operation of business or not is again a question to be decided on the
facts of each case having regard to the nature of the operation and the risk
involved in carrying it out.
It was, therefore, submitted by Mr. Shah that in computing the profit of the
assessee under s. 28(i) of the Act, the business loss it suffered on two
occasions when the approach bridges were washed away by floods must be
deducted to ascertain the real income of the assessee which could be brought
to tax. We are afraid we cannot accede to this submission made by the learned
counsel for the assessee for the simple reason that the amount spent by the
assessee for the construction of approach bridge for laying the pipelines to
its beneficiation plant was expenditure on capital account and could only be
treated as a capital loss and not a business loss. In Dalmia Dadri Cement
Ltd.s case [1973] 90 ITR 297 (P & H) the High Court after coming to the
conclusion that the expenditure incurred by way of advance payment to the
German firm was on capital account observed (p.306) :
"The expenditure for the acquisition of a plant is surely of a capital nature
and any loss suffered in that transaction would naturally be of a capital
nature."
The Tribunal also came to the conclusion that the expenditure incurred for the
construction of a bridge for laying of pipes was in the capital field and,
therefore, the loss incurred by the assessee on the bridge having been washed
away on both the occasions could only be termed as capital loss and not
business loss or revenue loss and, therefore, could not be deducted under s.
28(i) of the Act. We are in agreement with this view of the Tribunal and,
therefore, we answer the point against the assessee.
The next question which we must consider is, whether the said loss could be
termed to be a short term capital loss as urged by Mr. J.P. Shah for the
assessee. Section 45 of the Act provides that any profits or gains arising
from the transfer of a capital asset effected in the previous year shall, save
as otherwise provided in ss. 53, 54,54-B, 54-D and 54-R be chargeable to
income-tax under the head "Capital gains", and shall be deemed to be the
income of the previous year in which the transfer took place. Section 2(47)
defines the term "transfer" thus :
"Transfer, in relation to a capital asset, includes the sale, exchange or
relinquishment of the asset or the extinguishment of any rights therein or the
compulsory acquisition thereof under any law."
According to Mr. J.P. Shah since the rights of the assessee-company in the
capital asset were extinguished on both the occasions when the bridge was
washed away, there was a transfer of the capital within the meaning of s.
2(47) of the Act. To buttress his argument he invited our attention to a
decision of this court in CIT v.Vania Silk Mills (P.) Ltd. [1977] 107 ITR 300,
which was a case of damage of the assessees machinery along with its own
machinery and on settlement of the insurance claim, it received certain amount
out of which it paid a sum of Rs. 6,32,533 to the assessee on account of the
destruction of its machinery. The difference between the actual cost of the
machinery and its written down value worked out to Rs. 2,62,781 and in the
assessment proceedings for the assessment year 1967-68 the assessee returned
the said amount as profit chargeable to tax. The ITO also subjected to tax the
additional amount of Rs. 3,50,792 being the difference between the original
cost and the amount received from the mills as capital gains chargeable under
s. 45 of the Act. The assessees contention that the question of capital gain
did not arise since no transfer of capital asset was effected was negatived.
In appeal the Tribunal set aside the order holding, inter alia, that unless
the transfer of a capital asset is effected by an assessee, section 45 would
not be attracted. This court held that s. 45 provides that any profits or
gains arising from the transfer of a capital asset shall be chargeable to
income-tax under the head "Capital gains". Section 2(47) provides that
"transfer" in relation to a capital asset, includes, the sale, exchange or
relinquishment of the asset or the extinguishment of any rights therein or the
compulsory acquisition thereof under any law. It was, therefore, held that
since the language chosen was of the widest amplitude, the expression "the
extinguishment of any rights therein" would cover every possible transaction
which results in the destruction, annihilation, extinction, termination,
cessation cessation or cancellation, by satisfaction or otherwise, of all or
any of the bundle of rights - qualitative or quantitative -which the assessee
has in a capital asset, whether such asset is corporeal or incorporeal. Mr.
J.P. Shah, therefore, submitted that in the present case since the assessees
rights in the capital asset, namely, the partly constructed bridges were
extinguished on both the occasions when the bridge was washed away by floods,
there was an extinguishment of the bundle of rights which the assessee had in
the said capital asset and hence there was a "transfer" within the meaning of
s. 2(47) of the Act. Assuming that the said contention of Mr. J.P. Shah is
well founded, having regard to the language of s.48 of the Act, there must be
consideration for the transfer and, in the absence of any consideration, s. 45
would not be attracted.
In CIT v. R. M. Amin [1971] 82 ITR 194 (Guj), the assessee held shares of the
aggregate fact value of shillings 1,92,000, that is, Rs. 1,28,000. The said
company went into voluntary liquidation. The assets of the company were sold
by the liquidator and after payment of taxes and liabilities, the assessee
became entitled to receive shillings 4,68,489, equal to Rs. 3,12,326 in
respect of the 192 shares held by him. The assessee thus obtained an excess
amount of Rs. 1,84,326 over the aggregate face value of the said 192 shares.
The question arose whether the assessee was liable to capital gains under s.
45 read with s. 2(47) of the Act. This court came to the conclusion that there
was no "transfer" of capital asset within the meaning of s. 45 of read with s.
2(47) of the Act when the assessee received shillings 4,68,489 equal to Rs.
3,12,326 on final distribution of the net assets of the company. According to
the learned judges constituting the Division Bench of this court, when a
shareholder receives moneys representing his share on distribution of the net
assets of the company in liquidation, he receives such moneys in satisfaction
of the right which belongs to him by virtue of his holding the shares and not
by way of consideration for the extinguishment of his right or right in the
shares. It is not the extinguishment of his rights in the shares for which
consideration is received by him; it is rather because moneys representing his
share in the distribution are received and by that his rights in the shares
are extinguished. Therefore, according to the said decision, the transfer that
is contemplated by s, 45 read with s. 2(47) is a transfer as a result of which
consideration is received by the assessee or has accrued to the assessee.
Substituting the words "extinguishment of any rights in the capital asset" for
the words "transfer of the capital asset" the transaction, in order to attract
the charge of capital gains, must, it was observed, be such that consideration
is received by the assessee or accrues to him as a result of the
extinguishment of the rights in the capital asset. This decision was followed
in the case of Vania Silk Mills [1977] 107 ITR 300 (Guj), also. The decision
in R.M. Amins case [1971] 82 ITR 194 (Guj), was carried to the Supreme Court,
vide [1977] 106 ITR 368, and the Supreme Court, without entering into the
question whether existence of consideration must be established to attract the
provisions of s. 45 of the Act, held that there was no transfer within the
meaning of s. 2(47) of the Act. Therefore, so far as we are concerned, in view
of the decision in R.M. Amins case which was followed in the case of Vania
Silk Mills, we must hold that in the absence of consideration, section 45
would not attracted and hence deduction by way of short-term capital loss is
not available to the assessee. We must, therefore, answer this contention also
against the assessee and in favour of the Revenue.
So far as the expenditure of Rs. 20,40,000 is concerned, the same has been
allowed as revenue expenditure by the decision of this court in CIT v. Gujarat
Mineral Development Corporation [1981] 132 ITR 377, in the assessment year
1969-70. There can, therefore, be no question of allowing deduction for the
said amount or any part thereof in the assessment year 1970-71 or 1971-72. The
said claim was, therefore, rightly disallowed by the Tribunal.
For the above reasons we answer the reference accordingly with costs.
is received by the assessee or accrues to him as a result of the
extinguishment of the rights in the capital asset. This decision was followed
in the case of Vania Silk Mills [1977] 107 ITR 300 (Guj), also. The decision
in R.M. Amins case [1971] 82 ITR 194 (Guj), was carried to the Supreme Court,
vide [1977] 106 ITR 368, and the Supreme Court, without entering into the
question whether existence of consideration must be established to attract the
provisions of s. 45 of the Act, held that there was no transfer within the
meaning of s. 2(47) of the Act. Therefore, so far as we are concerned, in view
of the decision in R.M. Amins case which was followed in the case of Vania
Silk Mills, we must hold that in the absence of consideration, section 45
would not attracted and hence deduction by way of short-term capital loss is
not available to the assessee. We must, therefore, answer this contention also
against the assessee and in favour of the Revenue.
So far as the expenditure of Rs. 20,40,000 is concerned, the same has been
allowed as revenue expenditure by the decision of this court in CIT v. Gujarat
Mineral Development Corporation [1981] 132 ITR 377, in the assessment year
While that application was pending, it prepared a prospecting report on
November 9, 1963, and submitted it to the State Government in support of its
claim for a mining lease. However, the Government of Gujarat, by its order
dated March 4, 1964, rejected its application for the grant of a mining lease.
The said order was challenged in revision but the Govt. of India rejected the
revision application on May 26, 1965. As its application for the grant of a
mining lease was thus rejected, the Madras company field a Civil Suit No, 1552
of 1964 in the Civil Court at Baroda and also field a writ petition, being
Special Civil Application No. 829 of 1965, in this court. Certain interim
orders were obtained in the said proceedings whereby the Govt. of Gujarat was
restrained from giving the said survey number on lease to any other party. It
appears that in the meantime the assessee had also applied for a mining lease
in respect of Survey No. 30. The assessee-Corporation, therefore, with a view
of to expanding its business and avoiding competition on the adjacent land and
with a view to getting the required raw material for the desired number of
years, agreed to pay a sum of Rs. 3 lakhs to the Madras company on the said
company agreeing to give up its claim for a mining lease in respect of Survey
No. 30. An agreement was executed in that behalf on November 12, 1969, annex.
"F". After setting out the history leading to the institution of the suit and
the writ petition by the Madras company, the agreement proceeds to recite as
is received by the assessee or accrues to him as a result of the
extinguishment of the rights in the capital asset. This decision was followed
in the case of Vania Silk Mills [1977] 107 ITR 300 (Guj), also. The decision
in R.M. Amins case [1971] 82 ITR 194 (Guj), was carried to the Supreme Court,
vide [1977] 106 ITR 368, and the Supreme Court, without entering into the
question whether existence of consideration must be established to attract the
provisions of s. 45 of the Act, held that there was no transfer within the
meaning of s. 2(47) of the Act. Therefore, so far as we are concerned, in view
of the decision in R.M. Amins case which was followed in the case of Vania
Silk Mills, we must hold that in the absence of consideration, section 45
would not attracted and hence deduction by way of short-term capital loss is
not available to the assessee. We must, therefore, answer this contention also
against the assessee and in favour of the Revenue.
So far as the expenditure of Rs. 20,40,000 is concerned, the same has been
allowed as revenue expenditure by the decision of this court in CIT v. Gujarat
Mineral Development Corporation [1981] 132 ITR 377, in the assessment year
While that application was pending, it prepared a prospecting report on
November 9, 1963, and submitted it to the State Government in support of its
claim for a mining lease. However, the Government of Gujarat, by its order
dated March 4, 1964, rejected its application for the grant of a mining lease.
The said order was challenged in revision but the Govt. of India rejected the
revision application on May 26, 1965. As its application for the grant of a
mining lease was thus rejected, the Madras company field a Civil Suit No, 1552
of 1964 in the Civil Court at Baroda and also field a writ petition, being
Special Civil Application No. 829 of 1965, in this court. Certain interim
orders were obtained in the said proceedings whereby the Govt. of Gujarat was
restrained from giving the said survey number on lease to any other party. It
appears that in the meantime the assessee had also applied for a mining lease
in respect of Survey No. 30. The assessee-Corporation, therefore, with a view
of to expanding its business and avoiding competition on the adjacent land and
with a view to getting the required raw material for the desired number of
years, agreed to pay a sum of Rs. 3 lakhs to the Madras company on the said
company agreeing to give up its claim for a mining lease in respect of Survey
No. 30. An agreement was executed in that behalf on November 12, 1969, annex.
"F". After setting out the history leading to the institution of the suit and
the writ petition by the Madras company, the agreement proceeds to recite as
is received by the assessee or accrues to him as a result of the
extinguishment of the rights in the capital asset. This decision was followed
in the case of Vania Silk Mills [1977] 107 ITR 300 (Guj), also. The decision
in R.M. Amins case [1971] 82 ITR 194 (Guj), was carried to the Supreme Court,
vide [1977] 106 ITR 368, and the Supreme Court, without entering into the
question whether existence of consideration must be established to attract the
provisions of s. 45 of the Act, held that there was no transfer within the
meaning of s. 2(47) of the Act. Therefore, so far as we are concerned, in view
of the decision in R.M. Amins case which was followed in the case of Vania
Silk Mills, we must hold that in the absence of consideration, section 45
would not attracted and hence deduction by way of short-term capital loss is
not available to the assessee. We must, therefore, answer this contention also
against the assessee and in favour of the Revenue.
So far as the expenditure of Rs. 20,40,000 is concerned, the same has been
allowed as revenue expenditure by the decision of this court in CIT v. Gujarat
Mineral Development Corporation [1981] 132 ITR 377, in the assessment year
While that application was pending, it prepared a prospecting report on
November 9, 1963, and submitted it to the State Government in support of its
claim for a mining lease. However, the Government of Gujarat, by its order
dated March 4, 1964, rejected its application for the grant of a mining lease.
The said order was challenged in revision but the Govt. of India rejected the
revision application on May 26, 1965. As its application for the grant of a
mining lease was thus rejected, the Madras company field a Civil Suit No, 1552
of 1964 in the Civil Court at Baroda and also field a writ petition, being
Special Civil Application No. 829 of 1965, in this court. Certain interim
orders were obtained in the said proceedings whereby the Govt. of Gujarat was
restrained from giving the said survey number on lease to any other party. It
appears that in the meantime the assessee had also applied for a mining lease
in respect of Survey No. 30. The assessee-Corporation, therefore, with a view
of to expanding its business and avoiding competition on the adjacent land and
with a view to getting the required raw material for the desired number of
years, agreed to pay a sum of Rs. 3 lakhs to the Madras company on the said
company agreeing to give up its claim for a mining lease in respect of Survey
No. 30. An agreement was executed in that behalf on November 12, 1969, annex.
"F". After setting out the history leading to the institution of the suit and
the writ petition by the Madras company, the agreement proceeds to recite as
under :
"AND whereas the Corporation has spent considerable amount for mining and has
also invested over Rs. 3 crores for erecting a beneficiation plant for the
aforesaid mineral at the aforesaid area.
AND whereas 11.6 million tonnes of fluorspar deposits assessed by the
geological survey of India under their report are spread over Survey Nos. 30
and 40, the beneficiation plant being put up by the Corporation could run for
the desired number of years only when deposits of both the aforesaid Survey
Nos. are made available to the Corporation. It is, therefore, advisable and
necessary for the Corporation to obtain from the Govt. of Gujarat a mining
lease of the aforesaid Survey No. 30 having vast quantities of the aforesaid
is received by the assessee or accrues to him as a result of the
extinguishment of the rights in the capital asset. This decision was followed
in the case of Vania Silk Mills [1977] 107 ITR 300 (Guj), also. The decision
in R.M. Amins case [1971] 82 ITR 194 (Guj), was carried to the Supreme Court,
vide [1977] 106 ITR 368, and the Supreme Court, without entering into the
question whether existence of consideration must be established to attract the
provisions of s. 45 of the Act, held that there was no transfer within the
meaning of s. 2(47) of the Act. Therefore, so far as we are concerned, in view
of the decision in R.M. Amins case which was followed in the case of Vania
Silk Mills, we must hold that in the absence of consideration, section 45
would not attracted and hence deduction by way of short-term capital loss is
not available to the assessee. We must, therefore, answer this contention also
against the assessee and in favour of the Revenue.
So far as the expenditure of Rs. 20,40,000 is concerned, the same has been
allowed as revenue expenditure by the decision of this court in CIT v. Gujarat
Mineral Development Corporation [1981] 132 ITR 377, in the assessment year
While that application was pending, it prepared a prospecting report on
November 9, 1963, and submitted it to the State Government in support of its
claim for a mining lease. However, the Government of Gujarat, by its order
dated March 4, 1964, rejected its application for the grant of a mining lease.
The said order was challenged in revision but the Govt. of India rejected the
revision application on May 26, 1965. As its application for the grant of a
mining lease was thus rejected, the Madras company field a Civil Suit No, 1552
of 1964 in the Civil Court at Baroda and also field a writ petition, being
Special Civil Application No. 829 of 1965, in this court. Certain interim
orders were obtained in the said proceedings whereby the Govt. of Gujarat was
restrained from giving the said survey number on lease to any other party. It
appears that in the meantime the assessee had also applied for a mining lease
in respect of Survey No. 30. The assessee-Corporation, therefore, with a view
of to expanding its business and avoiding competition on the adjacent land and
with a view to getting the required raw material for the desired number of
years, agreed to pay a sum of Rs. 3 lakhs to the Madras company on the said
company agreeing to give up its claim for a mining lease in respect of Survey
No. 30. An agreement was executed in that behalf on November 12, 1969, annex.
"F". After setting out the history leading to the institution of the suit and
the writ petition by the Madras company, the agreement proceeds to recite as
under :
"AND whereas the Corporation has spent considerable amount for mining and has
also invested over Rs. 3 crores for erecting a beneficiation plant for the
aforesaid mineral at the aforesaid area.
AND whereas 11.6 million tonnes of fluorspar deposits assessed by the
geological survey of India under their report are spread over Survey Nos. 30
and 40, the beneficiation plant being put up by the Corporation could run for
the desired number of years only when deposits of both the aforesaid Survey
Nos. are made available to the Corporation. It is, therefore, advisable and
necessary for the Corporation to obtain from the Govt. of Gujarat a mining
lease of the aforesaid Survey No. 30 having vast quantities of the aforesaid
is received by the assessee or accrues to him as a result of the
extinguishment of the rights in the capital asset. This decision was followed
in the case of Vania Silk Mills [1977] 107 ITR 300 (Guj), also. The decision
in R.M. Amins case [1971] 82 ITR 194 (Guj), was carried to the Supreme Court,
vide [1977] 106 ITR 368, and the Supreme Court, without entering into the
question whether existence of consideration must be established to attract the
provisions of s. 45 of the Act, held that there was no transfer within the
meaning of s. 2(47) of the Act. Therefore, so far as we are concerned, in view
of the decision in R.M. Amins case which was followed in the case of Vania
Silk Mills, we must hold that in the absence of consideration, section 45
would not attracted and hence deduction by way of short-term capital loss is
not available to the assessee. We must, therefore, answer this contention also
against the assessee and in favour of the Revenue.
So far as the expenditure of Rs. 20,40,000 is concerned, the same has been
allowed as revenue expenditure by the decision of this court in CIT v. Gujarat
Mineral Development Corporation [1981] 132 ITR 377, in the assessment year
