Madhya Pradesh High Court
Principal Secretary State Of M.P. ... vs The Khasgi (Devi Ahilyabai Holkar ...
on 5 October, 2020
Author: S.C.Sharma
                                             Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014
                                                 & Writ Petition No.11234/2020
                                      -1-
    HIGH COURT OF MADHYA PRADESH, BENCH AT INDORE
    DIVISION BENCH : HON'BLE SHRI JUSTICE S. C. SHARMA
        & HON'BLE SHRI JUSTICE SHAILENDRA SHUKLA
                          Writ Appeal No.92/2014
                     State of Madhya Pradesh & Others
                                   Versus
     Khasgi (Devi Ahilya Bai Holkar Charities) Trust, Indore & Others
                         Writ Appeal No.135/2014
                     State of Madhya Pradesh & Others
                                   Versus
     Khasgi (Devi Ahilya Bai Holkar Charities) Trust, Indore & Others
                        Writ Petition No.11234/2020
                              Vipin Dhanaitkar
not only in respect of present property but in respect of other properties
also. The State of Madhya Pradesh shall ensure by taking appropriate steps in
accordance with law that no further sale takes place in respect of such
properties and they shall maintain the properties for the generations to come
keeping in view their historic importance. The Collector, Indore shall be free
to take action in accordance with law pursuant to the order passed by him
dated 05.11.2012 and the Registrar shall also be free to take appropriate
action in accordance with law pursuant to the order passed by him dated
30.11.2012.
With the aforesaid, the present Writ Appeal stands allowed and connected Writ
Appeal also stands allowed.
As this Court has already allowed both the writ appeals, Writ Petition
No.11234/2020 stands disposed of and the order passed in the writ appeals
shall govern the writ petition also.
Certified copy, as per rules.
      (S.C. SHARMA)                         (SHAILENDRA SHUKLA)
                              Vipin Dhanaitkar
                                   Versus
                     State of Madhya Pradesh & Others
    Counsel for the Parties   : Shri A.K. Chitle, learned senior counsel
                                along with Shri Kartik Chitle, Shri Kapil
                                Sibal, learned senior counsel along with
                                Shri Abhinav Malhotra, Shri Shyam Diwan,
                                learned senior counsel along with Shri
                                Abhinav Malhotra and Ms. Sugnadha
                                Yadav and Shri Manoj Manav and Shri
                                Milind Phadke Shri A.S. Garg, learned
                                senior counsel along with Ms. Poorva
                                Mahajan, Shri S.C. Bagadia, learned senior
                                counsel along with Shri Vivek Patwa and
                                Shri Rohit Saboo, Shri Shekhar Bhargava,
                                learned senior counsel along with Ms.
                                Anika Bajpai, Shri V.K. Jain, learned senior
                                counsel along with Shri Vaibhav Jain, Shri
                                Kapil Sibal, learned senior counsel along
                                with Shri Abhinav Malhotra , Shri Shyam
                                Diwan, learned senior counsel along with
                                Shri Abhinav Malhotra and Ms. Sugnadha
                                Yadav and Shri Manoj Manav and Shri
                                Milind Phadke.
    Whether approved for      : Yes
    reporting
                                             Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014
                                                & Writ Petition No.11234/2020
                                    -2-
    Law laid down           : 1. The dispute, as to whether a particular
                              property was or was not recognized as
                              private property of the Ruler, is itself a
                              dispute arising out of the terms of the
                              Covenant, and therefore, not adjudicable in
                              light of Article 363 of the Constitution of
                              India.
                              2. The Khasgi (Devi Ahilya Bai Holkar
                              Charities) Trust, Indore does not have title
                              of the Trust properties, as keeping in view
                              the covenant signed by the erstwhile Ruler
                              of Holkar State and order passed by the
                              Government of India, the title was
                              transferred to Madhya Bharat and now lies
                              with the State of Madhya Pradesh. The
                              Trust does not have any power of
                              whatsoever kind to alienate the Trust
                              properties in any manner. The original trust
                              deed in respect of Khasgi Trust and the
                              settlement of claim by Government of India
                              in Khasgi properties makes it very clear
                              that the Khasgi properties and the income
                              from Khasgi shall be treated as lapsed for
                              all time to the Madhya Bharat Government,
                              and therefore, any subsequent trust deed
                              amending the original trust deed providing
                              for sale of Khasgi properties is null and
                              void.
                              3. The letter dated 13.06.1969, which is
                              allegedly the permission granted by the
                              State Government / decision of the State
                              Government, is nothing but a D.O. letter of
                              the then Chief Secretary and as per the
                              Business Allocation Rules, any decision of
                              the Government for sale of property has to
                              be issued in the name of Governor of the
                              State of Madhya Pradesh.
                              4. It is settled proposition of law that fraud
                              vitiates everything. Fraud vitiates every
                              solemn proceedings and no right can be
                              claimed by a fraudster on the ground of
                              technicalities.
    Significant paragraph   : 84 to 90, 115 to 116, 120 to 127 & 133 to 135.
    numbers
                              ORDER
(Delivered on this 5th day of October, 2020) (S.C. SHARMA) (SHAILENDRA SHUKLA)
JUDGE JUDGE Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014 & Writ Petition No.11234/2020
-3- HIGH COURT OF MADHYA PRADESH: BENCH AT INDORE DIVISION BENCH : HON'BLE
SHRI JUSTICE S.C. SHARMA & HON'BLE SHRI JUSTICE SHAILENDRA SHUKLA Writ Appeal
No.92/2014 State of Madhya Pradesh & Others Versus Khasgi (Devi Ahilya Bai
Holkar Charities) Trust, Indore & Others Writ Appeal No.135/2014 State of
Madhya Pradesh & Others Versus Khasgi (Devi Ahilya Bai Holkar Charities)
Trust, Indore & Others Writ Petition No.11234/2020 Vipin Dhanaitkar Versus
State of Madhya Pradesh & Others Shri P.K. Saxena, learned senior counsel
along with Shri Rishi Tiwari, learned counsel for the appellants / State in
Writ Appeals and for respondent No.1 in Writ Petition.
Shri Kapil Sibal, learned senior counsel along with Shri Abhinav Malhotra,
learned counsel for respondent No.1 in Writ Appeals.
Shri Shyam Divan, learned senior counsel along with Shri Abhinav Malhotra and
Ms. Sugandha Yadav, learned counsel for respondent No.2 in Writ Appeal
No.92/2014.
A.K. Chitale, learned senior counsel along with Shri Kartik Chitale, learned
counsel for respondents No.1 and 2 in W.A. No.92/2014 and for respondents No.6
to 9 in Writ Petition.
Shri S.C. Bagadia, learned senior counsel along with Shri Vivek Patwa, learned
counsel for respondent Nos.1-A, 1-B and 1-D in W.A. No.135/2014.
Shri A.S. Garg, learned senior counsel along with Ms. Poorva Mahajan, learned
counsel for respondent No.4 in W.A. No..92/2014 and for respondent No.5 in
Writ Petition.
Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014 & Writ Petition No.11234/2020  -4- Shri
Sameer Saxena, learned counsel for Intervenor in all cases.
Shri Ashish Joshi, learned counsel for Intervenor in all cases.
Shri Milind Phadke, learned Additional Solicitor General along with Shri Manoj
Manav, learned counsel for Union of India.
Shri Rohit Sharma, learned counsel for the petitioner in Writ Petition (PIL).
Shri V.K. Jain, learned senior counsel along with Shri Vaibhav Jain, learned
counsel for respondents No.11 to 13 in Writ Petition.
Shri Shekhar Bhargav, learned senior counsel along with Ms. Anika Bajpai,
learned counsel for respondent No.3 in W.A. No.135/2014.
All parties have been served in the both the Writ Appeals.
ORDER (Delivered on this 5th day of October, 2020 ) Per : S.C. Sharma, J:
Regard being had to the similitude in the controversy involved in the present
case, these cases were analogously heard and by a common order, they are being
disposed of by this Court. Facts of Writ Appeal No.92/2014 are narrated
hereunder.
The appellant before this Court has filed this present Writ Appeal being
aggrieved by the order dated 28.11.2013 passed by the learned Single Judge in
W.P. No.11618/2012 [The Khasgi (Devi Ahilyabai Holkar Charities) Trust, Indore
& Another v/s The State of Madhya Pradesh & Others]. The writ petition was
preferred before the learned Single Judge against the order (note-sheet)
passed by the Collector, Indore, by which, the Collector, Indore has directed
the revenue authorities to enter the name of State of Madhya Pradesh in all
properties of the Trust to ensure that the properties of the Trust are not
sold to other persons.
02\. It was stated in the writ petition that the petitioners / Writ Appeal
Nos.92/2014, 135/2014 & Writ Petition No.11234/2020  -5- Trust therein is a
religious and charitable trust constituted on 27.06.1962. It was further
stated in writ petition that the Trust and its activities were initiated by
the erstwhile Ruler of Holkar State from the year 1761 - 1948, and thereafter,
on account of merger, the Holkar State merged into Madhya Bharat.
03\. The petitioners / Trust therein came up before the learned Single Judge
with a case that on account of covenant executed by the parties, the private
property, as per the schedule appended to the covenant, became the exclusive
properties of the Maharaja, the other properties became the exclusive
properties of Madhya Bharat (State of Madhya Pradesh) and a third species of
property, which was not the State's property or the personal property of the
Rulers of Holkar State, were the Trust's properties and in those backdrop, a
Trust was constituted on 27.06.1962.
04\. It has been further contended that in order to provide various checks and
balances to ensure the public character of the Trust, the trust deed provided
various safeguards including appointment of six trustees out of which three
were government / public nominees. It has been contended that various recitals
of the trustees also records that in the budget of Holkar State for the year
1947 - 48, a provision was made for Rs.2,91,952/- for maintenance of Khasgi
Charities and the State Government has also issued a gazette notification on
27.07.1962 regarding the setting up of the Khasgi Trust and handing over the
Khasgi properties to the Trust.
05\. It was further contended by the petitioners / Trust in the writ petition
that the covenant, which Maharaja Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014 & Writ
Petition No.11234/2020  -6- Yashwant Rao Holkar had entered into with
Government of India and other Rulers of the princely State of Central India to
form the United State of Madhya Pradesh, did not deal specifically with the
Khasgi properties and there was only a general provision contained in Article
VII (2)(c) for dealing with the properties like the Khasgi properties and the
same reads as under:-
> "Subject to any directions or instructions that may form time to time be
> given by the Government of India in this behalf, the authority -
           (a)     xxxxxxxxxxx
           (b)     xxxxxxxxxxx
           (c)     to control the administration of the fund in
> Gwalior known as the Gangajali Fund and / or any other existing fund of a
> similar character to any other Covenanting State."
06\. The petitioners before the learned Single Judge have further stated that
for Gangajali Fund of Gwalior State an act called Gangajali Fund Trust Act,
1954 (Madhya Bharat Act No.11 of 1954) was enacted by the Madhya Bharat
Legislature and was repealed later, however, for the Khasgi Charties and
religious endowment in the Holkar State, a tripartite instrument was entered
into between Government of India, Government of Madhya Pradesh and Maharaja
Yashwant Rao Holkar on 07.05.1949. The Trust has categorically stated in the
writ petition that petitionerss / Trust do not have a copy of said instrument.
07\. It has been further stated that as per the trust deed of Khasgi (Devi
Ahilyabai Holkar Charities) Trust, there are 246 charities of diverse nature
such as 138 temples, 18 Dharamshalas, 34 Ghats, 12 Chhatries, 24 Bagichas,
Kund and other miscellaneous properties. They are situated in Varanasi,
Ayodhaya, Nemisharanya, Allahabad, Haridwar, Pushkar, Omkareshwar, Pandharpur,
Choundhi, Gokaran, Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014 & Writ Petition
No.11234/2020  -7- Rameshwar, Vrindavan, Burhanpur, Trayambkeshwar,
Amarkantak, Nashik, Chandwad Wafgaon, Sambalgaon, Sansthan Chhatri Maheshwar,
Indore City and Indore District, Manasa, Rampura, Bhanpura, Alampur, Tarana,
Maheshwar and other places.
08\. It has been further stated that grant of Rs.2,91,952/- was inadequate to
maintain the properties and for the purposes of generating income, a need
arose to dispose of the trust property. It has been stated that in the year
1969, Shri S.V. Kanoongo, the then nominee of the Central Government of the
Board of Trustees, sought a clarification from the State Government vide
letter dated 09.05.1969 in respect of sale of properties and the then Chief
Secretary, Shri M.P. Shrivastava, vide letter dated 13.06.1969, has informed
the Trust that the Government does not come into picture in respect of sale of
properties.
09\. It has been further stated by the Trust that based upon the letter of the
Chief Secretary, Shri M.P. Shrivastava, the trust deed was amended by
executing a supplementary deed of trust on 08.03.1972, which provided a clause
for sale of the Trust properties and the same reads as under:-
> "The Trustees have always had and shall have the power to alienate not only
> the income but any item of the corpus of the Trust property, movable or
> immovable, for the necessity or benefit to the objects of the Trust and / or
> for the convenient or more beneficial administration of the religious and
> charitable endowments mentioned in the Deed of Trust dated 27th June, 1962."
10\. It has been further stated by the Trust that the Trust was enjoying
special status, it was duly recognized by the Registrar, M.P. Public Trust,
Indore and the Registrar has Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014 & Writ Petition
No.11234/2020  -8- granted exemption to the Trust form the applicability of
the M.P. Public Trust Act, 1956 by treating it as a Trust administered by an
agency acting under the control of the State Government.
11\. It has further been contended by the Trust that it was carrying out
thankless job, duty and responsibility of management of Trust and was also
looking after upkeep of the Khasgi properties including temples, dharamshala,
ghats etc. and it was autonomous institution. It has been contended by the
Trust that the Collector, Indore has got no power to interfere and intervene
or assert any right in respect of the properties vested in the Trust by
claiming the same to be the State Government's properties.
12\. It has further stated by the Trust that one of the property i.e. Ghats at
Haridwar was to be sold and a resolution was passed by the trustees in the
meeting which took place on 05.06.2008 in respect of Haridwar properties. It
has been stated that the resolution was passed to sell the Haridwar property,
as it was in the interest of the Trust and the property was sold for
Rs.50,00,000/-. The money was deposited in the Khasgi Trust Account in the
State Bank of India, Prince Yashwant Road Branch, Indore,
13\. It has further been contended by the Trust that the Haridwar property was
the property of the Trust and it was not the property of the State Government,
and therefore, it was rightly sold by the Trust. It has been further stated
that scandalous stories were published in respect of sale of the Trust
property and Smt. Sumitra Mahajan, the then Member of Parliament wrote a
letter to the Chief Minister on 18.04.2012 raising the issue of sale of
Haridwar property Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014 & Writ Petition
No.11234/2020  -9- and requested that the matter be investigated.
14\. The Trust has further stated that on account of the letter written by
Smt. Sumitra Mahajan, the then Member of Parliament, Indore, a chain of knee-
jerk reactions were followed at different level of the hierarchy in the State
Government and the letter was forwarded by the Principal Secretary, Chief
Minister Office on 08.05.2012 to the Collector, Indore as well as to the
Registrar, Public Trust, Indore. The Registrar, Public Trust issued a notice
to the petitioners on 05.06.2012 and the Trust did submit a reply on
20.05.2012 stating that the property in question is the property of the Trust
and not under the ownership of the State Government, and therefore, there was
no reason to continue with the illegal and malafide inquiry into the issue of
sale.
15\. It has further been contended by the Trust that the Collector, Indore,
thereafter, issued an order in respect of the Trust properties dated
05.11.2012, wherein he has directed the revenue authorities to mutate the name
of State Government in the revenue record and to inform all the Collectors
throughout the country to ensure that the Trust property is not sold to
private individuals or to any other person.
16\. The petitionerss / Trust has contended before the learned Single Judge
that the order passed by the Collector suffers from malafide and was issued in
colourable exercise of power and is without jurisdiction.
17\. It has further been stated by the Trust that another order was passed on
05.12.2012 by the Registrar, Public Trust and a prayer was made for quashment
of both the Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014 & Writ Petition No.11234/2020
-10- orders passed by the Collector as well as by the Registrar, Public Trust.
The petitioners / Trust has contended before the learned Single Judge that
grant of Rs.2,91,952/- was inadequate to manage the Trust, and therefore, a
necessity arose for sale of Trust property and an action was initiated against
the Trust with an oblique and ulterior motive.
18\. The petitioners / Trust has raised various grounds before the learned
Single Judge challenging illegality and validity of orders dated 05.11.2012
passed by the respondent No.2 / Collector in the writ petition and order dated
05.11.2012 passed by the Registrar, Public Trust by stating that the orders
were illegal, arbitrary and unconstitutional. It was also contended before the
learned Single Judge that the Collector does not have jurisdiction in the
matter to pass such an order and the Trust property was sold for the benefit
of the Trust.
19\. Another ground was raised by the Trust stating that the entire action was
based upon the letter of Member of Parliament with an oblique an ulterior
motive and the Collector, Indore is having no power in respect of property
situated in Haridwar.
20\. Another ground taken by the Trust is that after the establishment of
petitioner / Trust in the year 1962, all the Khasgi properties mentioned in
schedule appended to the trust deed vested in the Trust and they are not the
properties of the State Government, at no point of time, they became the
properties of Madhya Bharat, and therefore, the action of the Collector was
bad in law.
21\. Another ground was raised before the learned Single Judge stating that
earlier in the year 1969, the State Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014 & Writ
Petition No.11234/2020  -11- Government has informed the Trust that the
properties do not belong to the State Government and the then Chief Secretary
has written a letter categorically to that effect, and therefore, once the
properties were not under the ownership of the State Government, the Collector
and the Registrar could not have passed the impugned orders.
22\. It has further been contended that the Collector has ignored the vital
fact about the membership of the nominees of the State and Central Government
in the Trust and the property was sold by passing a resolution, hence, the
orders of the Collector and Registrar are bad in law.
23\. It has further been stated in the writ petition that there are as many as
246 charities of diverse nature including temples and ghats and if the State
Government wants to takeover the control of such properties, it can only be
done by enacting an act by the competent legislature and not by the order of
Collector. It has been contended that the order passed by the Collector and
Register, Public Trust are violative of principles of natural justice and fair
play and at the best, the Principal Secretary to the Hon'ble Chief Minister
could have directed an investigation in the matter through the Divisional
Commissioner, Indore.
24\. Another ground has been raised before the learned Single Judge stating
that the Registrar, Public Trust has got no authority in light of the covenant
signed at the time of merger to take any action against the Trust.
25\. Another ground was raised in respect of jurisdiction and the
applicability of the M.P. Land Revenue Code, 1954 in the matter. In the writ
petition, the petitioners / Trust has prayed for quashment of order / note-
sheet dated Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014 & Writ Petition No.11234/2020
-12- 05.11.2012, order dated 30.11.2012 as being void, illegal and opposite to
law.
26\. Appellant No.3 / Registrar has filed a caveat in the matter raising
preliminary objections and it has been stated in the reply that as per the
covenant executed between the parties, a Trust was formed on the basis of
claim made by His Highness Maharaja Yashwant Rao Holkar of Indore concerning
Khasgi properties and covenant provides that the Khasgi properties and income
from Khasgi shall be treated as lapsed for all time to the Madhya Bharat
Government. In lieu thereof several guarantees were given subject to
conditions. It was decided that the Madhya Bharat Government shall in
perpetuity set aside annually its revenue. A sum of Rs.2,91,952/- being the
amount provided in the Holkar State Budget for the year 1947 - 48 for
charities and the amount shall be funded and put under a permanent trust for
the said charities including the charities of her highness Maharani Ahilyabai
Holkar. The power and function of the Trust shall be subject to such
legislation as the Central Government or Madhya Bharat Government may enact
generally for the purposes of regulating such Trust, except that the
composition of Trust and the manner of its formation, as stated above, shall
not be liable to any modification or change by such legislation.
27\. It has further been stated that the Trust property vested in the Madhya
Bharat Government and the Trust was formed only for maintenance of the
properties and the Trust is certainly governed under the provisions of M.P.
Public Trust Act, 1951. It has further been contended by the Registrar that
the Trust in its reply dated 20.06.2012 has Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014
& Writ Petition No.11234/2020  -13- admitted the aforesaid situation. He has
stated that on 10.08.1971 on an application of the Trust, the Trust was
categorically informed that the property in question is owned and controlled
by the State of Madhya Pradesh, and therefore, exemption was provided only in
respect of registration of Trust. The Registrar has further contended that the
provisions of M.P. Public Trust Act, 1951 are very much applicable to the
Khasgi Trust and the State Government has issued a letter to the Trust dated
17.04.1997 to take prior permission under Section 14 of the M.P. Public Trust
Act, 1951 for transfer of Trust property, if any.
28\. It has further been contended by the Registrar that the representative of
the State Government i.e. the Commissioner, Indore has issued a letter dated
26.07.2000 to the Secretary of the Trust to take prior permission under
Section 14 of the M.P. Public Trust Act, 1951 in case of transfer of Trust
property, however, this letter has been suppressed by the Trust while filing
the writ petition.
29\. The Registrar has further stated in its reply / caveat that the
petitioners / Trust is fully governed and controlled by the State Authority
and the State Authority has issued a letter dated 15.05.2012 with a direction
to Collector, Indore to inquire the transfer of properties of the Trust, which
are vested in the State Government and the Collector has initiated an inquiry
through the Registrar, Public Trust after granting an opportunity of hearing
to the petitioners / Trust in consonance with the provisions of M.P. Public
Trust Act, 1951\.
30\. An Intervention Application was filed i.e. I.A.
Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014 & Writ Petition No.11234/2020  -14-
No.5493/2012 by one Jagdeependra Singh Holkar and it has been stated that the
petition has been filed on the premises that disputed properties (Trust
properties) were the properties of late Maharaja Yashwant Rao Holkar, who died
in 1961 and was recognized as Maharaja of the erstwhile Holkar State and after
the death of Maharaja Yashwant Rao Holkar, his daughter Usha Devi has created
the trust of the properties. The intervenor has stated that as per the terms
of covenant entered into between late Yashwant Rao Holkar and Union of India,
Usha Devi could not have succeeded as heir of Yashwant Rao Holkar as the
Ruler.
31\. It has been further stated that as per the terms of covenant, if the
Ruler dies without a sign, the rulership will devolve as per the custom
prevailing in the Holkar Dynasty and the custom prevailing in the Holkar
Dynasty provided that after the death of Ruler, his nearest male heir will
succeed as a Ruler in absence of a sign.
32\. The intervenor has further contended that at the time of death of late
Yashwant Rao Holkar, Malhar Rao Holkar, father of the intervenor, was the
nearest surviving male in the family, he was cousin of Maharaja Yashwant Rao
Holkar, late Yashwant Rao Holkar had no brother living at the time of his
death except the father of the intervenor and in those circumstances, a civil
suit has been filed i.e. Civil Suit No.15/1973 claiming declaration of title
and possession of property. It has been stated that after the death of Malhar
Rao Holkar, the intervenor, being his eldest son, has been brought on record
and the suit was dismissed by the trial Court vide judgment and decree dated
21.04.2003. A first appeal was also preferred i.e. F.A. No.264/2003, however,
Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014 & Writ Petition No.11234/2020  -15- it was
dismissed as withdrawn, and thereafter, a SLP was preferred i.e. S.L.P.
No.205/2009 and the Hon'ble Supreme Court has granted liberty to move a
restoration application and accordingly, a restoration application was filed
i.e. M.C.C. No.417/2011 and the same is still pending before the High Court of
Madhya Pradesh, Bench at Indore. The intervenor has stated that he is also an
interested party in the matter and he should also be heard.
33\. There was another Intervention Application i.e. I.A. No.5552/2012 filed
by Anshuman Rao Holkar and Gautam Rao Holkar. They are also claiming
themselves to be the members of Holkar Dynasty. It has been stated by them
that intervenors are the actual legitimate owner of the property in respect of
which, the Collector, Indore has passed an order, they are having right over
the property and Smt. Usha Devi Holkar has given false and fabricated
assurance to the intervenors and is disposing of the property of the Trust
illegally and arbitrarily that too without any authority to dispose of such
property.
34\. A rejoinder has been filed to the reply filed by the Registrar, Public
Trust and it has been reiterated that the orders have been passed by the
Registrar and the Collector without jurisdiction and it is a sheer abuse of
process of law. It has been stated in the rejoinder that the State Government
is not the owner of the property and the property was rightly sold by the
Trust. It has been stated that the order passed by the Collector is a nullity
and the properties are not at all under the control of the State Government.
It has been stated that the orders have been passed without jurisdiction and
the dispute can be resolved Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014 & Writ Petition
No.11234/2020  -16- by approaching Civil Court. Reference to trust deed has
also been made in the rejoinder and in nutshell, great emphasis has been laid
upon the fact that the property does not belong to the State Government and
the Trust has every right to dispose of the Trust property at their sweet will
keeping in view the terms and conditions of the trust deed and a prayer was
made for quashment of the orders passed by the Collector and the Registrar.
35\. Reply to Intervention Application has also been filed denying the claim
of intervenor in respect of property in question.
36\. The learned Single Judge, after hearing the parties at length, has
allowed the writ petition. Paragraphs - 24 to 32 of the order passed by the
learned Single Judge reads as under:-
> "24. The broad purport of the impugned order of the Collector and the
> Registrar of Public Trusts is that the Government owns the Khasgi
> Endowments, the State Government should have control over the affairs of the
> trust, the name of the State Government should be entered in the revenue and
> municipal records and the properties comprised in the Khasgi Endowments
> should not be alienated.
25\. In the opinion of this Court, the Collector, Indore, the Registrar of
Public Trusts, Indore and the State Government cannot and should not undertake
the task of management of the Khasgi Endowments on account of its
substantially extra- erritorial nature and the large number, age and condition
of the Khasgi Endowments. This task is quite different from normal
governmental functions. The impugned orders of the Collector and the Registrar
do not substitute for the Khasgi Trust any system of management of the Khasgi
Endowments superior to the Khasgi Trust. In fact they create a vacuum and a
state of uncertainty in the management of the Khasgi Endowments. Record
reveals that after the death of Shri K.A. Chitale, who was the trustee and
passed away on 15/11/82, Shri Ranjeet Malhotra S/o Shri Satish Malhotra was
appointed as Trustee, who resigned on 03/01/13. Thereafter Hon'ble Justice
Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014 & Writ Petition No.11234/2020  -17- P.D.
Muley (Retd.) was appointed as trustee vide resolution passed in October,
2013. So far as representative of Central Government is concerned, initially
Mr. SV. Kanungo, Member of Public Service Commission of India was the Trustee.
After him Mr. PS. Bapna was appointed as Trustee and thereafter Mr. BJ. Heerji
is the Trustee in the capacity of representative of Union of India. Thus, at
present following persons are the Trustee:-
         i.     Maharani Usha Devi
         ii.    Shri Satish Malhotra
iii. Hon'ble Justice P.D. Mule, (Retd.) iv. Revenue Commissioner, Ex- officio
v. Superintendent Engineer (Road & Building), Ex-officio vi. Mr. BK. Heerji
(representative of Central Government)
26\. Considering the totality of the above facts, in the opinion of this
Court, Khasgi Trust should continue to manage the Khasgi Endowments subject to
the directions contained in this order.
27\. For making permanent arrangement for the administration of the Khasgi
Endowments, this Court directs as under:
> PARLIAMENTARY LEGISLATION:
> In view of the fact that the Trust Endowments are not confined to the
> District of Indore or even the State of Madhya Pradesh and most important
> endowments are outside the State, the Central Government, which has been
> impleaded as respondent No. 4 in the present case, is requested to consider
> a Parliamentary Legislation. For this legislation, the respondent No. 8, who
> is nominee of the Union of India and the Member of Parliament upon whose
> complaint impugned orders were passed, are requested to take the initiative.
> STATE LEGISLATION:
If the Central Government is not in a position to initiate the process of
enactment of a Parliamentary statute within the period of one year, the State
Government may initiate steps for enactment of legislation by the State
Legislature MANAGEMENT OF KHASGI TRUST IN THE MEANTIME:
28\. In the meantime, until an Act of the Central or the State Legislature is
enacted, this Court issues following directions:
> 1\. The Khasgi (Devi Ahilyabai Holkar Charities) Trust, as constituted by
> the Trust Deed dated 27.06.1962, shall continue to function as in the past
> but subject to the directions contained in this order.
2\. The Khasgi Endowments are Temples, Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014 &
Writ Petition No.11234/2020  -18- Dharamshalas, Ghats, Chhatries, Bagichas,
Kunds and miscellaneous properties. They are situated in different parts of
the country. They are essentially religious in nature. As such, they are in
public domain and shall continue to remain in the public domain. Neither
Maharani Usha Devi nor any other Trustee nor the State Government shall claim
ownership of the Khasgi Endowments.
3\. The Trustees of the Khasgi Trust shall, as a body, manage the Khasgi
Endowments.
4\. Maharani Usha Devi shall, as in the past, have the liberty to nominate two
persons as trustees of the Khasgi Trust. At present her two nominees Mr.
Satish Malhotra and Hon'ble Justice P.D.Mule (Retd.) are the Trustee.
5\. In addition to the trustees appointed under the Trust Deed dated
27.06.1962, His Excellency the Governor of Madhya Pradesh is requested to be
the Patron and is further requested to appoint two eminent non-political and
non-governmental citizens of Indore with unblemished record of public service
as trustees.
6\. This Court appoints Smt. Sumitra Mahajan, Member of Parliament, Lok Sabha
in person and not ex-officio Shri A.K. Chitale, Senior Advocate, Shri Yashwant
Rao s/o Prince Richard @ Shivajirao Holkar and Shri Ranjeet Malhotra S/o Shri
Satish Chandra Malhotra as trustees, subject to their accepting
responsibilities of this office and for effective working of the trust
Collector, Indore in place of Superintending Engineer(Building & Roads) as
Nominee of the State Government. Thus, after reconstitution the Board of
Trustees subject to their acceptance shall be as under:-
        (I)      Smt. Usharaje Malhotra -
        President.
        (ii)     Shri Satish Chandra Malhotra.
        (iii)    Hon'ble Justice P.D. Mule,
        (Retd.).
        (iv)     Shri AK. Chitale, Senior
        Advocate.
        (v)      Smt. Sumitra Mahajan, Member
        of Parliament, Indore.
        (vi)     Shri Yashwantrao S/o Prince
        Richard @ Shivajirao Holkar.
        (vii)    Revenue           Commissioner,
        Indore, Ex-officio.
        (viii) Collector, Indore.
        (ix)     Shri B.J. Heerji, Representative
        of Union of India.
    7.     Henceforth the named trustees by
majority shall be at liberty to appoint trustee in case vacancy arises.
Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014 & Writ Petition No.11234/2020  -19-
8\. The religious properties comprised in the Khasgi Endowments shall never be
sold.
9\. If there is pressing need of selling or leasing any part of the Khasgi
Endowments which is not being used or which is not capable of being used for
actual religious purpose (hereinafter called "general properties") it may be
sold or leased only by a unanimous resolution of the Trustees. The procedure
followed for the sale shall be transparent and shall be laid down by a
resolution of the Trustees passed at a formal meeting of the Trust at which
the proposed sale shall be a specific item of the agenda.
10\. Maharani Usha Devi and Shri Satish Chandra Malhotra have been providing
financial support to the Khasgi Trust in the past. They are free and are
requested to continue to provide such financial support as they wish, in
future also.
11\. Clause 10 of the Trust deed provides that the Settlor in her capacity as
president of the Trust shall be entitled to appoint any person as her duly
constituted Attorney, to do all acts, deeds and things of ministerial nature.
The Trustees may appoint a Secretary by a special resolution and confer on him
such powers and authorities as the Trustees may deem fit. 12. The State
Government has so far been providing a fixed sum of Rs.2,91,000/- per year to
the Khasgi Trust. This amount was fixed on the basis of Budget of Holkar State
of the year 1947-48 for charities. This amount is now no longer adequate. The
State Government shall henceforth shall make a provision in the budget for
Khasgi Trust which should not be less then one crore every year keeping in
view the maintenance of valuable properties of the trust and the fact that a
sum of Rs.2.91 lac was fixed in the year 1947-48. This payment must be made
well before 31st March of every year. 13. Though the fixed annuity of the
State Government is only of Rs.2,91,000/-, the State Government has appointed
a retired State Government Officer on a monthly remuneration of Rs.30,000/-,
that is Rs.3,60,000/- per year, as Officer on Special Duty. This remuneration
is being paid from funds of the Khasgi Trust. This payment by the Khasgi Trust
must be and is stopped by the end of this year. This office of the Officer on
Special Duty and the payment may be continued only if (a) the State Government
bears the financial burden and assigns specific duties and responsibilities to
the Officer on Special Duty and (b) the trustees of Khasgi Trust accept such
an Officer on Special Duty.
Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014 & Writ Petition No.11234/2020  -20-
14\. Since the issue has been raised by the Member of Parliament, a hope is
expressed that she will provide at least Rs.5,00,000/- per year to the Khasgi
Trust well before 31st March of every year from the funds of Member of
Parliament. A copy of this order may be sent by the Registrar to her.
15\. The revenue and municipal records regarding the Khasgi Endowments may be
got corrected and entered in the name of the Khasgi Trust. 16. The Trustees
may request the Indian Institute of Management, Indore to study the present
system of management of the Khasgi Endowments and suggest improvements.
17\. The earlier transactions of transfer by the Trust which were supported by
proceedings of the trustees shall not be reopened.
18\. Audit of the accounts of the Khasgi Trust shall be got done by the
present auditors Messrs R.D. Joshi & Company. The State Government may get a
second audit conducted by independent recognized chartered accountants but
their fee and cost shall be borne by the State Government.
19\. The meeting of the Trust shall be held on regular basis and at least once
in three months. To give immediate effect, Collector, Indore is requested to
hold the first meeting at his Office forthwith. So that reconstituted Board of
Trustees of petitioners Trust become functional and consent can be obtained
from the Trustees appointed under the orders of this Court.
29\. For safety, preservation and management of jewellery and ornaments in
temples and other places of the Khasgi Trust, the following directions are
given:
> 1\. Detailed lists may be made of gold, silver and precious stone jewellery,
> ornaments, Puja implements, Murtis and ancient idols and things, monuments
> and sculptures in temples and other places in Khasgi Endowment (hereinafter
> called the "Khasgi Trust Precious Articles");
> 2\. These lists may be converted into proper bound and paged register/s;
> 3\. For preparing these lists and the register/s, the Secretary or his
> representative and a responsible officer of Khasgi Trust should visit the
> various places where the Khasgi Trust Precious Articles are kept.
> 4\. Panchnamas may be made of the Khasgi Trust Precious Articles at every
> place, dated and attested by at least two Panchas, one Writ Appeal
> Nos.92/2014, 135/2014 & Writ Petition No.11234/2020  -21- of whom should be
> a Government approved jewellery valuer;
> 5\. The Collector in whose jurisdiction the Khasgi Trust Precious Articles
> are located may be requested to depute an officer of his Collectorate to be
> present at the time of preparation of the Panchnama. If a Collector outside
> Madhya Pradesh does not, cannot or refuses to depute an officer, the
> procedure indicated earlier may nevertheless be carried out.
> 6\. Valuation may be done of the Khasgi Trust Precious Articles by the
> government approved jewellery valuer.
> 7\. After the Panchnamas are made, the Khasgi Trust Precious Articles may be
> kept in a bank locker or in a Godrej Safe embedded in the temple or other
> places at a safe location not accessible to public.
> 8\. Access to the Khasgi Trust Precious Articles may be provided only
> jointly to (a) the local Pujari or Manager of the temple or other place and
> (b) a person specially authorized by the Trustees and only on the occasion
> of Pujas, ceremonies or other occasions according to past practice.
> 9\. Lists of the Khasgi Trust Precious Articles may be placed before the
> trustees and their further resolutions for safety, preservation and
> management the Khasgi Trust Precious Articles may be obtained and followed
> at all times.
> 10\. The Trustees may lay down proper procedure and pass resolutions in
> order to facilitate the removal of the Khasgi Trust jewellery on special
> occasions for Pujas and ceremonies and putting them back safely.
> 11\. Photographs of every individual item of Khasgi Trust Precious Articles
> at appropriate angles may be taken and put in the safes where the Khasgi
> Trust Precious Articles would be kept and in the permanent record about the
> Khasgi Trust Precious Articles. These photographs may be signed by the
> person making the Panchnamas and the Panchas and put in sealed covers and
> the sealed covers may be similarly signed and dated.
> 12\. This exercise shall be completed within three months.
30\. Properties of Khasgi Trust are situated at a large number of locations.
Some of these properties may be capable of yielding income or higher income.
The Trustees may carry out inspection of the properties and make a report
about better exploitation of their potential for earning maximum Writ Appeal
Nos.92/2014, 135/2014 & Writ Petition No.11234/2020  -22- possible income. The
trustees of the Khasgi Trust should thereafter take all possible steps for
increasing income, without selling the properties.
31\. So far as two impugned orders concerned, this Court finds are as under:-
                   (a)      these two officers do not have any
                   judicial power;
                   (b)      they have purported to exercise judicial
power in passing the impugned orders;
(c) the impugned orders have been passed without compliance with principles of
natural justice;
(d) section 26 of the Madhya Pradesh Public Trusts Act contemplates a
reference to the court in the event of a dispute requiring adjudication;
(e) the impugned orders were never communicated to the petitionerss and the
other trustees.
32\. Since the impugned orders Annexure P/1 & P 23 are without jurisdiction,
therefore, the same stand quashed. Petition stands allowed with the direction
herein above. Parties are given liberty to seek directions of this court in
case of need. Copy of the order be given to the parties for immediate
compliance."
The aforesaid judgment delivered by the learned Single Judge is under
challenge in the present writ appeal.
37\. In the connected writ appeal i.e. W.A. No.135/2014, the order dated
03.12.2013 passed in W.P. No.5372/2010 is under challenge. The order dated
03.12.2013 reads as under:-
> "Petitioner by G.M. Chaphekar, senior advocate with Shri V. Bhargav,
> advocate.
> Respondents by Smt. Vinita Phaye, Government advocate.
> The prayer in the petition is to direct the respondents to correct revenue
> entries by deleting the name of the Collector as manager and entering the
> name of the petitioner / trust as Bhumiswami of the lands of the Temples and
> the Devsthan in the list Annexure P-4.
> The grievance of the petitioner / trust is that in the revenue record the
> name of the Collector has been mentioned as manager of the lands and Temples
> which is owned by the petitioner / trust. Since, the detailed direction has
> been issued by this Court in W.P. No.11618/2012 decided on Writ Appeal
> Nos.92/2014, 135/2014 & Writ Petition No.11234/2020  -23- 28.11.2013 wherein
> this Court has directed that the petitioner / trust shall remain owner of
> the trust for better management.
> In view of this, this petition is allowed with a direction to the revenue
> authorities to correct the record as directed by this Corut vide order dated
> 28.11.12013 in W.P. No.11618/2012.
> With the aforesaid, petition stands disposed of."
Both the writ appeals are connected writ appeals arising out of same cause of
action and in the Public Interest Litigation Writ Petition also subject matter
is same and a prayer has been for conducting an investigation by the Central
Bureau of Investigation besides other reliefs.
38\. Heard learned counsel for the parties at length and perused the record.
The appellant before this Court, the State of Madhya Pradesh, is aggrieved by
the order dated 28.11.2013 passed by the learned Single Judge in W.P.
No.11618/2012.
39\. Shri P.K. Saxena, learned senior counsel along with Shri Rishi Tiwari,
advocate has argued before this Court that the learned Single Judge has erred
in law and facts in setting aside the order dated 05.11.2012 passed by the
Collector as well as the order dated 30.11.2012 passed by the Registrar,
Public Trust on the ground that the principles of natural justice and fair
play were not followed. He has also argued that the learned Single Judge has
erred in law and facts in holding that that the Khasgi properties were private
properties and the State Government did not lay its claim even in the year
1949 when the letter dated 06.05.1949 was written settling the claim of
Maharaja for inclusion of Khasgi endowment in the inventories of private of
properties submitted in pursuance to Article 12 of the Madhya Union Covenant
wherein the Trust has Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014 & Writ Petition
No.11234/2020  -24- categorically stated that it was formed only to administer
the properties, which has already lapsed for all times in the State Government
(Madhya Bharat Government thereafter the M.P. Government). He has further
contended that appointment of trustees by Maharaja do not in any way change
the nature of the right qua Khasgi properties.
40\. Shri Saxena has also argued that the learned Single Judge has erred in
law and facts in wrongly holding that the trustees were empowered for leasing
or otherwise transferring the title of the Trust properties. He has also
argued that the Writ Court has also taken into account the letter dated
16.06.1969 and has wrongly held that the Trust is having power to transfer the
Trust properties. He has further argued that the Writ Court has not considered
the reply of the State Government in respect of the aforesaid aspect wherein
it was categorically stated that the letter dated 13.06.1969 was only a D.O.
letter, which do not in any way give recognition of the Government with
respect to the sale of the properties because the properties were under the
absolute ownership of the Government and a cabinet decision was required for
transferring the properties.
41\. It has further been contended that Shri M.P. Shrivastava was also a
trustee, and therefore, such kind of D.O. letter authorizing the sale of land
by the Trust itself was contrary to the various clauses of trust deed and was
having no legal sanctity. It has been contended that the learned Single Judge
has failed to consider that the Trust was formed only for maintenance, upkeep
and preservation of the Trust properties more particularly, as described in
Part - B, the trustees were not entitled to sell the Trust Writ Appeal
Nos.92/2014, 135/2014 & Writ Petition No.11234/2020  -25- property not even by
virtue of any resolution and the net effect is that all deeds of transfer are
void ab initio.
42\. Another ground has been raised stating that the Writ Court has miserably
failed to consider that the Trust was validly created, and therefore, founder
as well as the trustees were bound to act as per the intention of the Trust
and any deviation from the declared purpose of the Trust amounted to breach of
the Trust and it was an act of treason, and therefore, the Collector was
justified in taking action in accordance with law in respect of sale of Trust
properties.
43\. It has been further argued that the Writ Court has failed to consider
that the Covenant of 1948 and the Instrument of 1949 and before formation of
trust deed in the year 1962, the M.P. Land Revenue Code, 1954 came into force
and as per Section 57 of the M.P. Land Revenue Code, 1954, all the properties
vested in the State Government, and therefore, as per the covenant and the
M.P. Land Revenue Code, 1954, the properties were the exclusive properties
under the ownership of the State and no sale of any kind could have taken
place in the matter as has been done by the Trust. Shri Saxena has further
contended that the learned Single Judge has failed to consider that it is a
settled principle of law that once the trust is created with certain objects,
no one has the power to delete any of its objects. In the present the
Supplementary Deed of 1972 has the effect of deleting the main object of the
Trust, and therefore, the action of the learned Single Judge in validating the
sale, which took place in the matter, is certainly bad law.
Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014 & Writ Petition No.11234/2020  -26-
44\. It has been further contended that the learned Single Judge has failed to
see that the supplementary trust deed had no sanctity in the eyes of law. The
trust deed was not permitted by any Civil Court, and therefore, as in the
original trust deed there was no power of sale, by taking shelter of the
supplementary trust deed, sale could not be effected specially in light of the
fact that the property in question was the property under the exclusive
ownership of the State of Madhya Pradesh. It has been contended that the
Supplementary Trust Deed of 1972 is in fact not a supplementary trust deed
because it changes the basic nature of the original deed of 1962, and
therefore, the supplementary deed was invalid having no legal sanctity nor any
legal character in the eyes of law.
45\. It has been further argued that the trustees could not have sold the
property of the Trust keeping in view Section 47 of the Indian Trust Act,
1882. In the Trust Deed of 1962 or the Amendment of 1972 does not provide for
delegation of power and in the present case, the power was delegated to a
stranger to dispose of the property of the Trust and the learned Single Judge
has erred in law and facts in allowing the writ petition by quashing the order
the passed by the Collector. It has been contended that the Khasgi endowments
are of religious nature and are heritage properties, and therefore, the State
Government has every right and power to interfere with the sale transactions
as the trustees were not acting as per the duties so bestowed upon them and as
per the Trust Deed of 1962.
46\. It has been further contended by Shri Saxena that the findings arrived at
by the learned Single Judge in paragraph Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014 &
Writ Petition No.11234/2020  -27-
\- 25 are perverse and they are beyond the jurisdiction of the Writ Court, and
therefore, deserves to be set aside. He has further argued that the learned
Single Judge has given a finding that Khasgi Trust shall continue to manage
Khasgi endowments. He has stated that the same was not the subject matter of
the dispute, the dispute was that certain heritage properties were being sold
away in shady and unlawful manner and a third party right was being created
and in those circumstances, the Collector came into picture and has directed
that the name of the State Government be written in the Bhumiswami column of
the revenue record with a clear endowment of non-transferable, and therefore,
the learned Single Judge has erred in law and in facts in fact drafting a
trust deed which not the prayer made in the original writ petition. He has
further argued that the learned Single Judge was jurisdictionally incompetent
to draft a trust deed and to constitute Board of Trustees. He has argued that
keeping in view the power of the Registrar, as per Section 25 of the M.P.
Public Trust Act, 1951 by no stretch of imagination, a trust deed can be
drafted by a Writ Court in exercise of writ jurisdiction under Article 226 of
the Constitution of India.
47\. It has also been argued that the learned Single has failed to take notice
of the fact that earlier also the Trust has applied for grant of permission
under Section 14 of the M.P. Public Trust Act, 1951 for sale of properties and
the permission was rejected vide order dated 14.12.2005. The order dated
14.12.2005 was not challenged before any forum which impliedly means that the
Trust has accepted that the provisions of M.P. Public Trust Act, 1951 are Writ
Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014 & Writ Petition No.11234/2020  -28- applicable
and in those circumstances, the transactions made by the Trust in respect of
the heritage properties were certainly bad in law. The learned Single Judge
has ignored this vital aspect of the case. Learned senior counsel has argued
that the Writ Court has erred in law and facts in holding that there was
adequate administrative set up in the Trust and on the basis certain reports,
which were filed before the learned Single Judge without there being pleadings
in support of the same or the amendment to writ petition, the reports prepared
by the petitioner were believed, and therefore, the learned Single Judge has
erred in law and facts in delivering the judgment contrary to the pleadings.
48\. It has been further contended that the learned Single Judge has taken
into account the documents filed along with the list of the documents showing
the expenditure and income of the Trust. It has been stated that the documents
were being scrutinized by the Registrar, Public Trust which were prepared by
private auditor and without waiting for the proceedings to be completed before
the Registrar, the documents prepared unilaterally by the Trust were accepted
by the learned Single Judge, hence, the judgment delivered by the learned
Single Judge is bad in law and deserves to be set aside. It has been argued
that the learned Single Judge has given a finding that the State Government
cannot and should not undertake the task of management and the manner of the
formation of the Trust and the Trust shall not be liable for any modification
and change by any legislation so made by the Central Government or the State
Government. He has stated that the learned Single Judge Writ Appeal
Nos.92/2014, 135/2014 & Writ Petition No.11234/2020  -29- himself has
constituted a fresh trust deed by incorporating several clauses which was
beyond the scope and jurisdiction conferred upon the Court by virtue of
Article 226 of the Constitution of India. It has been stated that the
direction of the learned Single Judge that the State Government shall not
claim ownership of Khasgi endowment is also bad in law because it is the State
of Madhya Pradesh which having title of the property in question. The Khasgi
properties had lapsed for all time in the State Government (United State of
Madhya Bharat) thereafter, in the Madhya Pradesh with the signing of the
covenant in the year 1948 itself and till creation of the Trust in the year
1962, the same was managed by the Religious Endowment Department of the
Government. It has been stated that the Trust was formed with the purpose to
maintain, upkeep and preservation of the Khasgi endowment. The trust deed also
made it very clear that endowment in the Trust Deed of the year 1962 was very
clear on the subject that the Trust Could not have sold the properties by
subsequent resolution / subsequent amendment.
49\. It has further been argued that the Writ Court has failed to consider
that only the Civil Court has power to direct changes in the trust deed in the
spirit of Doctrine of Cy prs, which implies that the original intents of the
founder should not fail. It has been contended that the directions given by
the learned Single Judge for appointment of various persons as trustees is bad
in law and is beyond the jurisdiction so vested under Article 226 of the
Constitution of India as it has virtually changed the nature Writ Appeal
Nos.92/2014, 135/2014 & Writ Petition No.11234/2020  -30- of the trust deed.
It has been argued that the directions with respect to sale of property or
leasing out any part of the Khasgi endowment by way unanimous resolution in
bad in law because it runs counter to the very moto for which the Trust was
formed i.e., to upkeep, preserve and maintain the Khasgi endowment..
50\. It has further been argued that the direction given by the learned Single
Judge to appoint a Secretary and to confer power upon him and the authority,
as deems fit, also runs counter to the trust deed particularly Clause - 10 of
the trust deed. Clause - 10 of the Trust Deed provides that it is the Settlor
who has to appoint any person as the duly constituted attorney to do
ministerial act, there is no provision in the trust deed for appointment of
any Secretary, and therefore, such a direction given by the learned Single
Judge is bad in law.
51\. It has further been contended that it is the cardinal principle of law
that original registered trust deed cannot be washed of by subsequent change
in the trust deed which was not intended in the original trust deed. It has
been aruged that the directions given by the learned Single Judge to the State
of Madhya Pradesh for making a provision of rupees one crore for maintenance
of the properties of the Trust is bad in law as the same runs counter to the
trust deed and the learned Single Judge was not having jurisdiction to pass
such an order which runs counter and disturbs the very essence of the trust
deed. It in fact amounts to unwarranted exercise of power conferred under
Article 226 of the Constitution of India.
52\. Shri Saxena has also argued before this Court that a Writ Appeal
Nos.92/2014, 135/2014 & Writ Petition No.11234/2020  -31- letter was written
by Smt. Sumitra Mahajan, Ex Member of Parliament, to the Chief Minister of the
State of Madhya Pradesh informing him about the sale of the Trust properties
and the office of the Chief Minister has directed the Commissioner, Indore and
the Collector, Indore to take action in accordance with law. He has argued
that Smt. Sumitra Mahajan was not the party to the writ petition and the
learned Single Judge has directed the Member of Parliament to pay a sum of
Rs.5,00,000/- per year to the Trust before 31st March every year from the
funds of the Member of the Prliament. Such a direction passed against a person
without making him party to the lis is certainly bad in law.
53\. It has further been argued that the direction given by the learned Single
Judge that the name of Khasgi endowment be recorded in the revenue and
municipal record is bad in law as the same could not have been done without
there being a judgment and decree from any Civil Court. The Trust is certainly
not the titleholder of the properties and it is the State of Madhya Pradesh
which is having title of the properties, and therefore, the direction given by
the learned Single Judge is absolutely against all canons of law.
54\. It has also been argued that direction given by the learned Single Judge
for non-opening of all earlier transaction of sale made by the Trust is bad in
law because by giving the aforesaid direction all illegal proceedings which
were undertaken by the trustees and the various officers acting on behalf of
the Trust have been legalized. It has been contended that such a direction is
bad in law as it Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014 & Writ Petition
No.11234/2020  -32- completely overlooks the proceedings which were pending
before the Registrar regarding the transactions made by the representatives of
the Trust. It has been stated that such a finding, being beyond the record, is
bad in law and deserves to be set aside.
55\. Shri Saxena has also argued before this Court that the direction of the
learned Single Judge that the audit of the account of the Trust shall be done
by the auditor of the Trust is bad in law. He has stated that the Writ Court
has completely overlooked the fact that the audit of the account was already
being carried out by the Joint Director, Tresury and Account Office, and
therefore, issuing a direction for carrying out audit by private auditor is
bad in law and such an arbitrary order deserves to be set aside by this Court.
56\. It has been argued that the learned Single Judge has given a direction
regarding preservation and management of jewellery of the temple of the Khasgi
Trust and such direction indicates that the learned Single Judge did not
appreciate the real controversy which was before him. The real controversy was
that the Trust is on a selling spree and is selling out Trust properties. He
has argued that directions given in paragraph - 29 are perverse and are in
exercise of such jurisdiction which was not the subject matter of lis before
this Court.
57\. Another ground has been raised by the State of Madhya Pradesh stating
that the findings of the learned Single Judge that the Collector and Registrar
do not have any judicial power or power so as to pass the impugned orders is
bad in law because the order was passed by the Collector as Head of the
District Administration and the Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014 & Writ
Petition No.11234/2020  -33- Registrar has passed the order as competent
authority under the M.P. Public Trust Act, 1951. The orders were passed after
following the principles of natural justice and fair play. The order were in
consonance with the statutory provisions and they were as measure to protect
the properties from being alienated. He has also argued that the learned
Single Judge ought to have held that the Trust and the trustees were
responsible towards the State Government to explain the deeds and action
undertaken by the trustees and were duty bound to participate in co-operating
with the inquiry which was being held in the matter, however, on the contrary,
the Writ Court has passed an order treating the orders passed by the Collector
and Registrar as final orders, and therefore, the order passed by the learned
Single Judge deserves to be set aside.
58\. It has also been argued that in light of various directions given by the
learned Single Judge, it appears that the learned Single Judge usurped the
power and jurisdiction not vested in him and has acted as a Registrar as
provided under Section 25 of the M.P. Public Trust Act, 1951 and also the
jurisdiction of the Civil Court, as provided under Section 27 of the M.P.
Public Trust Act, 1951. Shri Saxena has argued that the Trust property was
sold by the trustees for peanuts, for personal gains by playing a fraud and
the matter deserves a probe by Economic Offences Wing by registering a First
Information Report. He has also argued that a committee should be constituted
for the purposes of conducting an inquiry into the affairs of the Trust under
the Chairmanship of the Chief Secretary and it is bounden duty of this Court
to save the historical monuments like temple, Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014,
135/2014 & Writ Petition No.11234/2020  -34- ghats and other properties which
are under the absolute ownership of the State of Madhya Pradesh.
59\. Shri Saxena has placed reliance upon a judgment delivered in the case of
The State of Madhya Pradesh v/s Maharani Usha Devi reported in (2015) 8 SCC
672. Heavy reliance has been placed upon paragraphs - 27, 29 and 31. He has
argued before this Court that property in question, prior to the covenant, was
under the ownership of the Ruler but once a covenant is entered into, the
Government has taken over all the properties except those which the Government
recognizes as the private properties of the Ruler. In case of properties under
the Khasgi Trust, the State of Madhya Pradesh, being the successor State, is
the titleholder of the properties and in light of judgment delivered by the
Hon'ble Supreme Court, the learned Single Judge was not having power to decide
the writ petition keeping in view the specific bar as provided under Article
363 of the Constitution of India.
60\. He has also placed reliance upon a judgment delivered in the case of
Draupadi Devi & Others v/s Union of India & Others reported in (2004) 11 SCC
425. Paragraph - 43 and 44 of the aforesaid judgment read as under:-
> "43. The rule that cession of territory by one State to another is an act of
> State and the subjects of the former State may enforce only those rights
> which the new sovereign recognises has been accepted by this Court. [See in
> this connection: M/s Dalmia Dadri Cement Co. Ltd. V. The Commissioner of
> Income-tax (supra); Jagannath Agarwala v. State of Orissa (supra); Promod
> Chandra Deb and Others v. The State of Orissa and Others and The State of
> Saurashtra v. Jamadar Mohamad Abdulla and Others (supra).
44\. Applying the law as laid down in Vora Fiddali (supra) it appears to us
that the contention of the State Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014 & Writ
Petition No.11234/2020  -35- of Punjab and the Union of India must be upheld.
The Maharaja of Kapurthala was an independent sovereign Ruler. To merge or not
to merge with the Dominion of India was a political decision taken by him and
the instrument of accession dated 16.8.1947 was, without doubt, an act of
State. So was the covenant dated 5.5.1948. By the covenant all rights,
authority and jurisdiction of the erstwhile Rulers were vested in the Patiala
and East Punjab States Union and all assets and liabilities of the covenanting
States became the assets and liabilities of the Union, PEPSU. It is only
Article XII which ensured certain rights to the Ruler with regard to full
ownership, use and enjoyment of all private properties (as distinct from State
properties) belonging to him on the date of his making over the administration
of the State to the Raj Pramukh. Consequently, he was also required to furnish
to the Raj Pramukh, before the deadline, an inventory of all the immovable
properties, securities and cash balances held by him as such private property.
This was obviously done so that the Government of India could ascertain the
correctness of the claim. No doubt, clause (3) of Article XII provides that a
dispute arising as to whether any item of property was the private property of
the Ruler or State property was referable to a nominee of the Government of
India and such nominee's decision would be final and binding on all the
parties concerned, provided that such dispute was to be referred by the
deadline of 31.12.1948. Interpreting this clause, the learned Single Judge
took the view that under the treaty the Government of India could not
unilaterally refuse to recognise any property as private property of the
Ruler, and, if it did, it was obliged to refer it to the person contemplated
by clause (3). Failure to do so would imply recognition of the claim as to
private property. In our view, this reasoning of the learned Single Judge was
erroneous on two counts. In the first place, this interpretation ignores the
true nature of the covenant. The covenant is a political document resulting
from an act of State. Once the Government of India decides to take over all
the properties of the Ruler, except the properties which it recognises as
private properties, there is no question of implied recognition of any
property as private property. On the other hand, this clause of the covenant
merely means that, if the Ruler of the covenanting State claimed property to
be his private property and the Government of India did not agree, it was open
to the Ruler to have this issue decided in the manner contemplated by clause
(3). Clause (3) of Article XII does not mean that the Government was Writ
Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014 & Writ Petition No.11234/2020  -36- obliged to
refer to the dispute upon its failure to recognise it as private property.
Secondly, the dispute as to whether a particular property was or was not
recognised as private property of the Ruler was itself a dispute arising out
of the terms of the covenant and, therefore, not adjudicable by municipal
courts as being beyond the jurisdiction of the municipal courts by reason of
Article 363 of the Constitution of India. " His contention is that in light of
the aforesaid judgment, once as per the covenant the property was not the
private property of the Maharaja and it was declared to be the property of the
Madhya Bharat State (now State of Madhya Pradesh), the writ petition was
certainly not at all maintainable.
61\. Shri Saxena has also placed reliance upon a judgment delivered in the
case of Manohar Lal v/s Ugrasen & Others reported in (2010) 11 SCC 55.
Paragraphs - 30 to 34 of the aforesaid judgment reads as under:-
> "30. In Messrs. Trojan & Co. Vs. RM.N.N. Nagappa Chettiar AIR 1953 SC 235,
> this Court considered the issue as to whether relief not asked for by a
> party could be granted and that too without having proper pleadings. The
> Court held as under:
> "It is well settled that the decision of a case cannot be based on grounds
> outside the pleadings of the parties and it is the case pleaded that has to
> be found. Without an amendment of the plaint, the Court was not entitled to
> grant the relief not asked for and no prayer was ever made to amend the
> plaint so as to incorporate in it an alternative case."
> 31\. A similar view has been re-iterated by this Court in Krishna Priya
> Ganguly etc.etc. Vs. University of Lucknow & Ors. etc. AIR 1984 SC 186; and
> Om Prakash & Ors. Vs. Ram Kumar & Ors., AIR 1991 SC 409, observing that a
> party cannot be granted a relief which is not claimed.
> 32\. Dealing with the same issue, this Court in Bharat Amratlal Kothari Vs.
> Dosukhan Samadkhan Sindhi & Ors., AIR 2010 SC 475 held:
> "Though the Court has very wide discretion in granting relief, the court,
> however, cannot, ignoring and keeping aside the norms and principles
> governing grant of relief, grant a relief not even Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014,
> 135/2014 & Writ Petition No.11234/2020  -37- prayed for by the petitioner."
> 33\. In Fertilizer Corporation of India Ltd. & Anr. Vs. Sarat Chandra Rath &
> Ors., AIR 1996 SC 2744, this Court held that "the High Court ought not to
> have granted reliefs to the respondents which they had not even prayed for."
> 34\. In view of the above, law on the issue can be summarised that the Court
> cannot grant a relief which has not been specifically prayed by the parties.
> The instant case requires to be examined in the light of the aforesaid
> certain legal propositions."
The contention of learned senior counsel is that the learned Single Judge has
granted relief, which was not prayed for and by no stretch of imagination, a
relief could have been granted to a party without a prayer that too without
proper pleadings. He has argued that the learned Single Judge has granted
various reliefs which were never prayed for, the learned Single Judge has
drafted a fresh trust deed which was not the matter of dispute, and therefore,
the order passed by the learned Single Judge deserves to be set aside.
62\. Reliance has also been placed upon a judgment delivered in the case of
Janardha Reddy & Others v/s The State of Hyderabad & Others reported in AIR
(38) 1951 SC 217. Paragraph - 26 of the aforesaid judgment reads as under:-
> "26. It is well settled that if a court acts without juris- diction, its
> decision can be challenged in the same way as it would have been challenged
> if it had acted with jurisdic- tion, i.e., an appeal would lie to the court
> to which it would lie if its order was with jurisdiction. [See Ranjit Misser
> v. Ramudar Singh (1); Bandiram Mookerjee v. Purna Chandra Roy C); Wajuddi
> Pramanik v. Md. Balaki Moral (3); and Kalipada Karmorkar v. Sekher Bashini
> Dasya(4)]. There- fore, the High Court at Hyderabad had jurisdiction to hear
> and decide the appeal in this case. In view of this fact, the deprivation of
> life or liberty, upon which the case of the petitioners is founded, has been
> brought about in accordance with a procedure established by law, Writ Appeal
> Nos.92/2014, 135/2014 & Writ Petition No.11234/2020  -38- and their present
> detention cannot be held to be invalid."
63\. Reliance has also been placed upon a judgment delivered in the case of
Puran Singh & Others v/s State of Punjab & Others reported in (1996) 2 SCC
205. Paragraphs - 5, 6, 10, 11 and 12 read as under:-
> 5\. The question with which we are concerned is as to whether the aforesaid
> provisions made under Order 22 of the code are applicable to proceedings
> under Articles 226 and 227 of the constitution. Prior to the introduction of
> an explanation by Civil Procedure code (Amendment) Act 1976, Section 141 of
> the Code was as follows:
> "141. Miscellaneous proceedings - The procedure provided in this Code in
> regard to suits shall be followed, as far as it can be made applicable, in
> all proceedings in any Court of civil jurisdiction."
> The explanation which was added by the aforesaid Amending Act said:
> "Explanation - In this section, the expression "proceedings" includes
> proceedings under Order IX, but does not include any proceeding under
> Article 226 of the Constitution."
> There was controversy between different courts as to whether the different
> provisions of the Code shall be applicable even to writ proceedings under
> Articles 226 and 227 of the Constitution. Some High Courts held that writ
> proceedings before the High Court shall be deemed to be proceedings "in any
> court of civil jurisdiction" within the meaning of Section 141 of the Code.
> (Ibrahimbhai v. State, AIR 1968 Gujarat 202; Panchayat Officer v. Jai
> Narain, AIR 1967 All. 334; Krishanlal Sadhu v. State, AIR 1967 Cal. 275;
> Sona Ram Ranga Ram v. Central Government, AIR 1963 Punjab 510; A.
> Adinarayana v. State of Andhra Pradesh, AIR 1958 Andhra Pradesh 16).
> However, in another set of cases, it was held that writ proceeding being a
> proceeding of a special nature and not one being in a court of civil
> jurisdiction Section 141 of the Code was not applicable. (Bhagwan Singh v.
> Additional Director Consolidation, AIR 1968 Punjab 360; Chandmal v. State,
> AIR 1968 Rajasthan 20; K.B.Mfg.Co. v. Sales Tax Commissioner, AIR 1965 All.
> 517; Ramchand v. Anandlal, AIR 1962 Gujarat 21; Messers Bharat Board Mills
> v. Regional Provident Fund Commissioner and Others, AIR 1957 Cal. 702).
06\. Even before the introduction of the explanation to Section 141 of the
Code, this Court had occasion to examine the scope of the said Section in the
case of Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014 & Writ Petition No.11234/2020  -39-
Babubhai Muljibhai Patel v. Nandlal Khodidas Barot and others, AIR 1974 SC
2105 = (1975)2 SCR 71. It was said: "It is not necessary for this case to
express an opinion on the point as to whether the various provisions of the
Code of Civil Procedure apply to petitions under Article 226 of the
Constitution. Section 141 of the Code, to which reference has been made, makes
it clear that the provisions of the Code in regard to suits shall be followed
in all proceedings in any court of civil jurisdiction as far as it can be made
applicable. The words "as far as it can be made applicable" make it clear
that, in applying the various provisions of the Code to proceedings other than
those of a suit, the court must take into account the nature of those
proceedings and the relief sought. The object of Article 226 is to provide a
quick and inexpensive remedy to aggrieved parties. Power has consequently been
vested in the High Court to issue to any person or authority, including in
appropriate cases any government, within the jurisdiction of the High Court,
orders or writs, including writs in the nature of habeas corpus, mandamus,
prohibition, quo warrant and certiorari. It is plain that if the procedure of
a suit had also to be adhered to in the case of writ petition, the entire
purpose of having a quick and inexpensive remedy would be defeated. A writ
petition under Article 226, it needs to be emphasised, is essentially
different from a suit and it would be incorrect to assimilate and incorporate
the procedure of a suit into the proceedings of a petition under Article 226."
It can be said that in the judgment aforesaid, this Court expressed the view
that merely on basis of Section 141 of the code it was not necessary to adhere
to the procedure of a quit in writ petitions, because in many cases the sole
object of writ jurisdiction to provide quick and inexpensive remedy to the
person who invokes which jurisdiction is likely to be defeated. A Constitution
Bench of this Court in the case of State of U.P. vs. Vijay Anand, AIR SC 1963
946 said as follows:-
"It is, therefore, clear from the nature of the power conferred under Art.226
of the Constitution and the decisions on the subject that the High Court in
exercise of its power under Art.226 of the Constitution exercises original
jurisdiction, though the said jurisdiction shall not be confused with the
ordinary civil jurisdiction of the High Court. This jurisdiction, though
original in character as contrasted with its appellate and revisional
jurisdictions, is exercisable throughout the territories in relation to which
it exercises jurisdiction and may, for convenience, be described Writ Appeal
Nos.92/2014, 135/2014 & Writ Petition No.11234/2020  -40- as extraordinary
original jurisdiction."
10\. On a plain reading, Section 141 of the Code provides that the procedure
provided in the said Code in regard to suits shall be followed "as far as it
can be made applicable, in all proceedings". In other words, it is open to
make the procedure provided in the said Code in regard to suits applicable to
any other proceeding in any court of civil jurisdiction. The explanation which
was added is more or less in the nature of proviso, saying that the expression
"proceedings" shall not include any proceeding under Article 226 of the
Constitution. The necessary corollary thereof shall be that it shall be open
to make applicable the procedure provided in the Code to any proceeding in any
court of civil jurisdiction except to proceedings under Article 226 of the
Constitution. Once the proceeding under Article 226 of the Constitution has
been excluded from the expression "proceedings" occurring in Section 141 of
the Code by the explanation, how on basis of Section 141 of the Code any
procedure provided in the Code can be made applicable to a proceeding under
Article 226 of the Constitution? In this background, how merely on basis of
Writ Rule 32 the provisions of the Code shall be applicable to writ
proceedings? Apart from that, Section 141 of the Code even in respect of other
proceedings contemplates that the procedure provided in the Code in regard to
suits shall be followed "as far as it can be made applicable". Rule 32 of Writ
Rules does not specifically make provisions of Code applicable to petitions
under Articles 226 and 227 of the Constitution. It simply says that in matters
for which no provision has been made by those rules, the provisions of the
Code shall apply mutatis mutandis in so far as they are not inconsistent with
those rules. In the case of Rokyaybi v. Ismail Khan, AIR 1984 Karnataka 234 in
view of Rule 39 of the Writ Proceedings Rules as framed by the Karnataka High
Court making the provisions of Code of Civil Procedure applicable to writ
proceedings and writ appeals, it was held that the provisions of the Code were
applicable to writ proceedings and writ appeals.
11\. We have not been able to appreciate the anxiety on the part of the
different courts in judgments referred to above to apply the provisions of the
Code to Writ Proceedings on the basis of Section 141 of the Code. When the
constitution has vested extraordinary power in the High Court under Articles
226 and 227 to issue any order, writ or direction and the power of
superintendence over all courts and tribunals throughout the territories in
relation to which Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014 & Writ Petition
No.11234/2020  -41- such High Court is exercising jurisdiction, the procedure
for exercising such power and jurisdiction have to be traced and found in
Articles 226 and 227 itself. No useful purpose will be served by limiting the
power of the High Court by procedural provisions prescribed in the Code. of
course, on many questions, the provisions and procedures prescribed under the
Code can be taken up as guide while exercising the power, for granting relief
to persons, who have invoked the jurisdiction of the High Court. It need not
be impressed that different provisions and procedures under the Code are based
on well recognised principles for exercise of discretionary power, and they
are reasonable and rational. But at the same time, it cannot be disputed that
many procedures prescribed in the said Code are responsible for delaying the
delivery of justice and causing delay in securing the remedy available to a
person who pursues such remedies. The High Court should be left to adopt its
own procedure for granting relief to the persons concerned. The High Court is
expected to adopt a procedure which can be held to be not only reasonable but
also expeditious.
12\. As such even if it is held that Order 22 of the Code is not applicable to
writ proceedings or writ appeals, it does not mean that the petitioner or the
appellant in such writ petition or writ appeal can ignore the death of the
respondent if the right to pursue remedy even after death of the respondent
survives. After the death of the respondent it is incumbent on the part of the
petitioner or the appellant to substitute the heirs of such respondent within
a reasonable time. For purpose of holding as to what shall be a reasonable
time, the High Court may take note of the period prescribed under Article 120
of the Limitation Act for substituting the heirs of the deceased defendant or
the respondent. However, there is no question of automatic abatement of the
writ proceedings. Even if an application is filed beyond 90 days of the death
of such respondent, the Court can take into consideration the facts and
circumstances of a particular case for purpose of condoning the delay in
filing the application for substitution of the legal representative. This
power has to be exercised on well known and settled principles in respect of
exercise of discretionary power by the High Court. If the High Court is
satisfied that delay, if any, in substituting the heirs of the deceased
respondent was not intentional, and sufficient cause has been shown for not
taking the steps earlier, the High Court can substitute the legal
representative and proceed with the hearing of the writ petition or the writ
appeal, as the case may be. At Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014 & Writ
Petition No.11234/2020  -42- the same time the High Court has to be conscious
that after lapse of time a valuable right accrues to the legal representative
of the deceased respondent and he should not be compelled to contest a claim
which due to the inaction of the petitioner or the appellant has become
final."
Learned senior counsel has argued that the learned Single Judge has exercised
jurisdiction in the matter as if he was acting as a Civil Court and deciding a
title suit. He has stated that under Article 226 of the Constitution of India
while dealing with the writ petition, the Code of Civil Procedure is not
applicable for deciding a title, and therefore, the judgment delivered by the
learned Single Judge deserves to be set aside.
64\. Reliance has also been placed upon a judgment delivered in the case of
State of Uttar Pradesh & Others v/s Dr. Vijay Anand Maharaj reported in AIR
1963 SC
946\. Paragraphs - 8 and 9 of the aforesaid judgment reads as under:-
> 8\. Even so, the appellants would not be entitled to succeed, unless we
> hold, differing from the High Court, that s.11 of the Act confers a right on
> the appellants to have the order of Mehrotra, J., reviewed. We have already
> extracted the provisions of a. 11. Section 11 is in two parts: the first
> part of the section confers a right on a party to the proceedings under the
> Principal Act to apply to the court or authority for a review of the
> proceeding in the light of the provisions of the Act within 90 days from the
> commencement of the Act, and the second part issues a statutory injunction
> on such a court or authority to review the proceedings accordingly and to
> make an order as may be necessary to give effect to the provisions of the
> Principal Act, as amended by ss.2 and 4 of the Act.
The first question, therefore, is whether the order of Mehrotra, J., in an
application under Art. 226 of the Constitution was in any proceeding under the
Principal Act. Obviously a petition under Art. 226 of the Constitution cannot
be a proceeding under the Act: it is a proceeding under the Constitution. But
it is said, relying upon certain passages in Maxwell on the Interpretation of
Statutes, at p, 68, and in Crawford on Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014 &
Writ Petition No.11234/2020  -43- "Statutory Construction' at p. 492, that it
is the duty of the Judge "to make such construction of a statute as shall
suppress the mischief and advance the remedy," and for that purpose the more
extended meaning could be attributed to the words so as to bring all matters
fairly within the scope of such a statute even though outside the letter, if
within its spirit or reason. But both Maxwell and Crawford administered a
caution in resorting to such a construction. Maxwell says at p.68 of his book:
> "The construction must not, of course, be strained to include cases plainly
> omitted from the natural meaning of the words."
Crawford says that a liberal construction does not justify an extension of the
statute's scope beyond the contemplation of the Legislature. The fundamental
and elementary rule of construction is that the words and phrases used by the
Legislature shall be given their ordinary meaning and shall be constructed
according to the rules of grammar. When the language is plain and unambiguous
and admits of only one meaning, no question of construction of a statute
arises, for the Act speaks for itself. It is a well recognized rule of
construction that the meaning must be collected from the expressed intention
of the Legislature. So construed, there cannot be two possible views on the
interpretation of the first part of the section. Learned counsel suggested
that we should read the relevant portion of the first part thus: "in any
proceedings to set aside any assessment made on the basis of the Principal
Act". To accept this argument is to rewrite the section. While the section
says that the order sought to be reviewed is that made in a proceeding under
the Principal Act, the argument seeks to remove the qualification attached to
the proceeding and add the same to the assessment. The alternative argument,
namely, that without changing the position of the words as they stand in the
section, the expression ,on the basis of" may be substituted for the
expression "under" does Dot also yield the results expected by the learned
counsel. It cannot be held with any justification, without doing violence to
the language used, that a proceeding under Art. 226 of the Constitution is
either one under the Principal Act or on the basis of the Principal Act, for
it is a proceeding under Art. 226 of the Constitution to quash the order on
the ground that it was made in violation of the Act. An attempt is then made
to contend that a proceeding under Art. 226 of the Constitution is a
continuation of the proceedings before the Additional Collector and,
therefore, the said proceedi- ings are proceedings Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014,
135/2014 & Writ Petition No.11234/2020  -44- under the Act. This leads us to
the consideration of the question of the scope of the proceedings under Art.
226 of the Constitution.
09\. Article 226 confers a power on a High Court to issue the writs, orders,
or directions mentioned therein for the enforcement of any of the rights
conferred by Part III or for any other purpose. This is neither an appellate
nor a revisional jurisdiction of the High Court. Though the power is not
confined to the prerogative writs issued by the English Courts, it is modeled
on the said writs mainly to enable the High Courts to keep the subordinate
tribunals within bounds. Before the Constitution, the chartered High Court,
that is, the High Courts at Bombay, Calcutta and Mad- ras, were issuing
prerogative writs similar to those issued by the King's Bench Division,
subject to the same limitations imposed on the said. writs. In Venkataratnam
v. Secretary of State for India(1), (1) (1930) I.L.P.. 53 Mad. 979. A division
Bench of the Madras High Court, consisting of Venkatasubba Rao and Madhavan
Nair, JJ,; held that the jurisdiction to issue a writ of certiorari was
original jurisdiction. In Ryots of Garabandha v. The Zamindar of Parlakimedi
(1), another division Bench of the same High Court, consisting of Leach, C.
J., and Madhavan Nair J., considered the question again incidentally and came
to the same conclusion "and held that a writ of certiorari is issued only in
exercise of the original jurisdiction of the High Court. In Ramayya v. State
of Madras (2), a division Bench, consisting of Govinda Menon and Ramaswami
Oounder, JJ,, considered the question whether the proceedings under Art. 226
of the Constitution are in exercise of the original Jurisdiction or revisional
jurisdiction of the High Court, and the learned Judges held that the power to
issue writs under Art. 226 of the Constitution is original and the
jurisdiction exercised is original jurisdiction. In Moulvi Hamid Hassan Nomani
v. Banwarilal Boy (3), the Privy Council was considering the question whether
the original civil jurisdiction which the Supreme Court of Calcutta possessed
over certain classes of persons outside the territorial limits of that
jurisdiction has been inherited by the High Court. In that context the
Judicial Committee. observed.
> "It cannot be disputed that the issue of such writs is a matter of original
> jurisdiction"
The Calcutta. High Court, in Budge Budge Municipality v. Mangru(4) came to the
same conclusion, namely, that the jurisdiction exercised under Art. 226 of the
Constitution is original as distinguished from appellate or revisional
jurisdiction;
> Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014 & Writ Petition No.11234/2020  -45- but
> the High Court pointed out that the jurisdiction, though original, is a
> special jurisdiction and should not be confused with ordinary civil
> jurisdiction under the Letters Patent. The Andhra High Court in
> Satyanarayanamurthi v. 1. T. Appellate Tribunal (1) described it as an
> extraordinary original jurisdiction. It is, therefore, clear from the nature
> of the power conferred under Art. 226 of the Constitution and the decisions
> on the subject that the High Court in exercise of its power under Art. 226
> of the Constitution exercises original jurisdiction, though the said
> jurisdiction shall not be confused with the ordinary civil jurisdiction of
> the High Court. This jurisdiction, though original in character as
> contrasted with its appellate and revisional jurisdictions, is exercisable
> throughout the territories in relation to which it exercises jurisdiction
> and may. for convenience, be described as extraordinary original
> jurisdiction. If that be so, it cannot be contended that a petition under
> Art. 226 of the Constitution is a continuation of the proceedings under the
> Act.
Taking shelter of the aforesaid judgment, he has argued before this Court that
the High Court does not have any power to decide a civil suit as it was not
exercising original writ jurisdiction to deal with a civil case, and
therefore, the learned Single Judge has erred in law and facts in holding that
the Trust is the titleholder of the property. Shri Saxena has prayed for
dismissal of the writ petition. He has further prayed that the writ appeals be
allowed and the cost be imposed upon the Trust.
65\. In the present case, Shri A.K. Chitle, learned senior counsel along with
Shri Kartik Chitle, Shri A.S. Garg, learned senior counsel along with Ms.
Poorva Mahajan, Shri S.C. Bagadia, learned senior counsel along with Shri
Vivek Patwa and Shri Rohit Saboo, Shri Shekhar Bhargava, learned senior
counsel along with Ms. Anika Bajpai, Shri V.K. Jain, learned senior counsel
along with Shri Vaibhav Jain, Shri Kapil Sibal, learned senior counsel along
with Shri Abhinav Malhotra , Shri Shyam Diwan, learned senior Writ Appeal
Nos.92/2014, 135/2014 & Writ Petition No.11234/2020  -46- counsel along with
Shri Abhinav Malhotra and Ms. Sugnadha Yadav and Shri Manoj Manav, learned
counsel for the Union of India have appeared in the matter and have argued the
matter at length.
Intervenors have also been represented by Shri Sameer Saxena and Shri Ashish
Joshi.
66\. Shri Kapil Sibal, learned senior counsel and Shri Shyam Diwan, learned
senior counsel have vehemently argued before this Court that the Collector,
Indore was having no jurisdiction to pass the order dated 05.11.2012 and the
Registrar, Public Trust was also jurisdictionaly incompetent to pass the order
dated 30.11.2012.
67\. Reliance have been placed upon several judgments delivered in the cases
of T.C. Basappa v/s T. Nagappa reported in AIR 1954 SC 440, Hari Vishnu Kamath
v/s Syed Ahmad Ishaque reported in AIR 1955 SC 233, Syed Yakoob v/s K.S.
Radhakrishnan reported in AIR 1964 SC 477, Vimla Ben Ajit Bhai Patel v/s
Vatslaben Patel reported in (2008) 4 SCC 649 and Jilubhai Khachar v/s The
State of Gujrat reported in (1995) Supp. (1) SCC 596.
68\. Learned counsel for the respondents in the writ appeal have also argued
before this Court that by orders dated 05.11.2012 and 30.11.2012, the
Collector and Registrar of the State of Madhya Pradesh have held that the
property in question is under the ownership of the State of Madhya Pradesh and
the Collector has decided the issue of title without granted opportunity of
hearing to the Trust and trustees. Reliance has been placed upon judgments
delivered in the cases of A.K. Kraipak v/s Union of India reported in (1969) 2
SCC 262, S.L. Kapoor v/s Jagmohan Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014 & Writ
Petition No.11234/2020  -47- reported in (1980) 4 SCC 379, Sahara India (Firm)
(1) v/s CIT reported in (2008) 14 SCC 151 and Kanachur Islamic Education Trust
v/s Union of India reported in (2017) 15 SCC 702.
69\. It has also been argued that the letter of the Chief Secretary is the
decision of the State Government, and therefore, keeping in view the letter
dated 13.06.1969, the State is estopped by its deed and conduct in
disapproving the sale which took place in the matter. Reliance has also been
placed upon judgments delivered in the cases of Motilal Padampat v/s The State
of UP reported in (1979) 2 SCC 409, Union of India v/s Godfrey Philips
reported in (1985) 4 SCC 369 and State of Bihar v/s Sunny Prakash reported in
(2013) 3 SCC 559.
70\. It has also been argued that Article 363 of the Constitution of India has
no applicability in the present case and reliance has been placed upon
judgments delivered in the cases of Madhav Rao Jivaji Rao Scindia v/s Union of
India reported in (1971) 1 SCC 85 and State of M.P. v/s Usha Devi reported in
(2015) 8 SCC 672.
71\. It has also been argued before this Court that the Registrar, Public
Trust and the Collector were not competent to decide the question of title
keeping view the M.P. Public Trust, 1951 and no jurisdiction vested in the
Registrar to decide the ownership of immovable properties, and therefore,
findings given by the learned Single Judge in paragraph - 31 are correct.
Reliance has also been placed upon judgments delivered in the cases of State
of Maharashtra v/s Chanderkant reported in (1977) 1 SCC 257, Seth Chand Ratan
v/s Pandit Durga Prasad reported Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014 & Writ
Petition No.11234/2020  -48- in (2003) 5 SCC 399, Shri Ram Mandir Trust v/s
State of M.P. reported in (2011) SCC OnLine MP 275, State of Gujrat v/s Patil
Raghav reported in (1969) 2 SCC 187 and Rohini Prasad v/s Kasturchand reported
in (2000) 3 SCC
668\.
72\. It has also been argued before this Court that Union of India is a
necessary party and it should also be heard in the matter.
73\. Reference has also been made to the White Paper on Indian States
published by the Government of India, Ministry of States and it has been
argued that the property in question is a Trust's property and it is not the
property of the State Government.
74\. Reference has also been made to the book written by Shri V.P. Menon
titled as 'The Story of Integration of the Indian States' published in 1956
First Edition, Chapter - 11 and the judgment delivered by the Hon'ble Supreme
Court in the case of Marthanda Varma v/s The State of Kerela reported in 2020
SCC OnLine 569.
75\. Lastly, it has been argued that power to manage Trust's properties
inherently includes the power to sale and the trustees are entitled to sell
the properties for the objective of the Trust. Reliance has been placed upon a
judgment delivered in the case of Chairman Madappa v/s M.N. Mahantha Devaru
reported in AIR 1966 SC 878.
76\. Lastly, it was argued that Maharani Usha Devi and her husband Shri S.C.
Malhotra are respectable citizen and they have contributed a lot towards
public, social and charitable causes in the township of Indore, they have
donated huge amount from time to time to Khasgi Trust, Writ Appeal
Nos.92/2014, 135/2014 & Writ Petition No.11234/2020  -49- and therefore, the
learned Single Judge was justified in quashing the orders passed by the
Collector and Registrar, Public Trust.
77\. It has been vehemently argued that the Chief Secretary of the State of
Madhya Pradesh has written a letter dated 13.06.1969 permitting the Trust to
go ahead with the sale of the property, and therefore, the State Government is
estopped from taking a contrary stand in the matter that there was no
permission of the State in respect of sale of the property.
78\. It has been vehemently argued by Shri Kapil Sibal and Shri Shyam Diwan,
learned senior counsel that the Registrar was not having any power under the
M.P. Public Trust Act, 1951 in the matter to pass any order.
79\. While the matter was argued, a specific question was put to Shri Shyam
Diwan, learned senior counsel i.e., whether the Indian Trust Act, 1882 and /
or M.P. Public Trust Act, 1951 and / or any other law relating to Trust shall
apply in the matter or not ? He was fair enough in stating before this Court
that the provisions of M.P. Public Trust Act, 1951 shall be applicable in the
matter. Later on Shri Kapil Sibal, after the arguments were over, has stated
before this Court that neither the Indian Trust Act, 1882 nor the M.P. Public
Trust Act, 1951 is applicable in respect of the Trust in question.
80\. Heard learned counsel for the parties at length and perused the record.
The matter is being disposed of finally with the consent of the parties.
81\. At the time of Indian independence in 1947, India was divided into two
sets of territories, one under direct Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014 & Writ
Petition No.11234/2020  -50- British rule, and the other under the suzerainty
of the British Crown with control over their internal affairs remaining in the
hands of their hereditary rulers. There were 562 Princely States, having
different types of revenue sharing arrangements with the British, often
depending on their size, population and local conditions. At the time of
independence, there were several colonial enclaves controlled by France and
Portugal.
82\. The integration of Indian States into Union of India was a herculian job
and the events took place from 1947 to 1951\. Shri V.P. Menon in his book
titled as 'The Story of Integration of the Indian States' has dealt with the
historical aspect of integration of Indore State in the Indian Union. Under
the chapter Madhya Bharat, the issue of integration of Indore State has been
dealt with. The relevant extracts, which are necessary to deal with the issue
involved in the present case are reproduced as under:-
> "Indore, the other Important State, was founded by Malhar Rao Holkar. He was
> born in 1694\. his soldierly qualities brought him into prominence under th
> e Peshwa. The territories acquired by Malhar Rao at one time stretched from
> the Deccan to the Ganges. He was succeeded by his grandson, Male Rao, who
> had no issue, and when he died his mother Ahalyabai came to the throne. She
> was reputed to be not only an exemplary ruler but also a model of Hindu
> pety. Her temple occupies a commanding position on the crags of Maheshwar
> overlooking the Narmada river. She was succeeded by Tukoji Rao Holkar. His
> son, Jaswant Rao, in 1805, concluded a treaty of peace and amity with the
> British Government. But further disturbances caused and in 1718 Malhar Rao
> II entered into another treaty, called the Treaty of Mandsaur, which till
> the transfer of power continued to define the relations of the State with
> the British Government. There had been lond spells of minority
> administration under British officials by which the State had greatly
> benefited.
> The present Maharajah, SirYeshwant Rao Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014 &
> Writ Petition No.11234/2020  -51- Holkar, started very well indeed and was
> noted for his progressive views. I recall his having written a letter to the
> President of the United States during the second World War stressing the
> imperative need of satisfying nationalist demand in India. This got him into
> his shell. Later he went to the other extreme and joined the group which
> tried to evolve a 'Third Force' out of the State. During out negotiations
> for accession on three subjects, the Maharajah was certainly not helpful,
> but he did ultimately accede the thereafter fully played his part. He is the
> only ruler, other than the Nizam, who had the foresight to create a trust of
> all his properties. After the integration of the State, he requested the
> States Ministry to recognize his only daughter, Ushadevi, as his heir. In
> view of his uniformly good relations with the Government of India after his
> accession to the Indian Union, and in accordance with the precedent of a
> former ruler Ahalyabai, the President (on the advice of Sardar and the Prime
> Minister) recognized the daughter as heir-apparent.
> The future relations between Gwalior and Indore depended largely on the
> choice of the capital. The Maharajah of Gwalior, backed by his ministers,
> pressed the claims of Gwalior. The Maharajah of Indore along with his
> ministers insisted on Indore. In the end we decided that the summer capital
> should be at Indore and the winter capital at Gwalior. The controversy over
> the question of the capital is not yet settled; but for the time being at
> any rate, both parties have accepted Nehru's award that the capital shall be
> at Gwalior for six-and-a-half months and at Indore for five and-a-half
> months.
> The covenant was signed by practically all the rulers on 22 April 1948.
> There remained only a few estates and these were subsequently integrated by
> means of agreements between the Chiefs concerned and Rampramukh.
> The Madhya Bharat Union, the largest we had formed up to that time,
> comprising an area of 17,000 square miles, with a population over 70 lakhs
> and a revenue of about Rs 8 crores, was inaugurated by Nehru on 28 May
> 1948."
83\. The Government of India, Ministry of States published a White Paper on
Indian States printed in media by the Manager, Government of India Press, New
Delhi and published by the Manager of Publications, Delhi, 1950. Part
\- VII deals with the settlement of Rulers' private properties.
Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014 & Writ Petition No.11234/2020  -52-
Paragraphs - 156 to 159 reads as under:-
> "156. The Instruments of Merger and the Covenants establishing the various
> Unions of States, are in the nature of over-all settlements with the Rulers
> who have executed them. While they provide for the integration of States and
> for the transfer of power from the Rulers, they also guarantee to the Rulers
> privy purse, succession to gaddi, rights and privileges and full ownership,
> use and enjoyment of all private properties belonging to them, as distinct
> from State properties. The position about the privy purses guaranteed or
> assured to the Rulers is set out in details in Part XI. The provisions of
> the Constitution bearing on the rights, privileges and dignities of Rulers
> and their succession to their respective gaddis are also explained in that
> Part. So far as their Private properties are concerned, the Rulers were
> required to furnish by a specified date inventories of immovable property,
> securities and cash balances claimed by them as private property. The
> settlement of any dispute arising in respect of the properties claimed by a
> Ruler was to be by reference to an arbitrator appointed by the Government of
> India.
> 157\. In the past the Rulers made no distinction between private and State
> property; they could freely use for personal purposes any property owned by
> their respective States. With the integration of States it became necessary
> to define and demarcate clearly the private property of the Ruler. The
> settlement was a difficult and delicate task calling for detailed and
> patient examination of each case. As conditions and customs differed from
> State to State, there were no precedents to guide and no clear principles to
> follow. Each case, therefore, had to be decided on its merits.
The Government of India were anxious that the new order in States should be
ushered in in an atmosphere free from any controversies or bitterness arising
from any unhappy legacy of the past. A rigid and legalistic approach would
have detracted from the spirit of good-will and accommodation in which the
political complexion of the States had been so radically altered. By and large
the inventories were settled by discussion between the representatives of the
Ministry of States, the Rulers concerned and the representatives of the
Governments of the Province or the Union as the case may be. The procedure
generally adopted was that after the inventories had been received and
scrutinised by the Provincial or the Union Government concerned and after the
accounts of the States taken over had been examined, the inventories were
discussed across the Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014 & Writ Petition
No.11234/2020  -53- table and settled in a spirit of give and take. In all
discussions with the Rulers of the States forming Unions, the Rajpramukhs were
associated; the private properties of Rajpramukhs were settled by the
Government of India in informal consultation with the Premiers of the Unions.
This method made it possible to settle these properties on an equitable basis
within a remarkably short period and without recourse even in a single case to
arbitration. The settlements thus made are final as between the States and the
Rulers concerned.
158\. The settlements made in regard to private properties of the Rulers were
arrived at as a compromise between the claims of the Rulers and the counter-
claims of the Governments, and with due regard to the paramount need of
safeguarding public interests. In the nature of things it was not possible to
lay down or follow any strict or uniform standards; nevertheless certain broad
principles were observed. These are indicated below:--
(i) Palaces and other Residential Buildings.--These were allocated on the
basis of previous use and the needs of the Ruler and the administration. The
Ruler's palace with houses used for his private guests and personal staff were
treated as his private property. The Rulers were also allowed to retain one or
two houses outside the State, for example, at a hill station or a sea-side
resort.
(ii) Farms and Gardens.--Rulers who were interested in farming or horticulture
have been allowed to retain reasonable areas of land already in their
possession. These lands, will be held subject to the ordinary revenue laws and
to the payment of assessment.
(iii) The Rulers have also in a number of cases been allowed to retain grazing
areas; the land so held is liable to assessment. Generally, no forest areas
have been given to Rulers, though limited rights of grazing and obtaining fuel
have been recognised in some cases. Shooting rights of the Rulers have been
recognised in defined areas subject to the laws in force and authorised
working plans.
(iv) As the privy purse is intended to cover all the expenses of the Ruler and
his family including expenses on account of his personal staff, maintenance of
residences, marriages and other ceremonies, Rulers have not been allowed to
add to this income directly or indirectly. New jagirs or grants of villages
made to the consorts or children of the Rulers have not been recognised as
private property. Likewise all other rights enjoyed and claimed by Rulers in
respect of land such as customary Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014 & Writ
Petition No.11234/2020  -54- right to enjoy the fruit of trees on common
lands, superior proprietary rights over agricultural areas, proprietorship of
service jagirs, etc., have been extinguished. The Rulers have surrendered
their jagirs and where their proprietary rights over lands has been
recognised, it has been done mainly on the ground that many of them have the
resources and time to undertake modern and mechanical farming and to bring new
areas under cultivation. As already stated, the position of the Rulers in
respect of these areas will be the same as that of a private land-holder and
they will be subject to revenue laws and assessment.
(v) Investments and Cash Balances.--The opening balances which, according to
the books of the States, belonged to the States, have been handed over to the
successor Governments. Only such investments and cash to which the States
could lay no claim have been recognised as private property of the Ruler.
(vi) Ancestral Jewellery and Regalia.--In a large number of cases, ancestral
jewellery has been treated as heirloom to be preserved for the Ruling family.
In the case of the States having valuable regalia, such articles are to remain
in the custody of the Ruler for use on ceremonial occasions and they will be
subject to periodical inspection by the Governments concerned.
(vii) Civil List Reserve Fund.--The Rulers had created Civil List Reserve
Funds according to the advice given by the Chamber of Princes. The fund was
intended to relieve the State of the expenditure in connection with marriages
etc. in the Ruler's family. The amount standing to the credit of these funds
has therefore been allowed to be retained by the Rulers. Generally, additions
to the fund made after the date of integration have not been treated as
private property.
(viii) Temples and Religious Funds.-- Excepting the temples situated within
the palaces, temples and properties attached to them have been constituted
into Trusts. The right of the public to worship at these temples has been
maintained.
(ix) The Rulers will preserve for the nation objects of historical importance
like rare manuscripts, paintings, arms etc. Even though treated as private
property these objects will be preserved in Museums inside the States
concerned. Where any of them are kept in private custody, scholars, students
and others interested will have access to them under Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014,
135/2014 & Writ Petition No.11234/2020  -55- proper regulations.
(x) A number of Rulers have houses in New Delhi. Most of these were
constructed on plots of land allotted on special terms and conditions when New
Delhi was built. The Rulers have claimed these houses but the question whether
these houses should be treated as the Rulers' private property or State
property is still under consideration as also the question of their
acquisition for use by the Government of India.
159\. Some of the special arrangements made for management of important
properties in States may be mentioned:
> (i) Indore Ahalyabai's Charities.--The Khasgi properties of His Highness the
> Maharaja of Indore and the income from Khasgi which had been hitherto
> utilised for Maharai Ahalyabai's Charities all over India and for the
> maintenance of allowances to the senior Maharani of Indore, were made over
> to the Madhya Bharat Government and in return the Madhya Bharat Government
> undertook to pay annually from the revenues of the properties a sum of Rs.
> 291,952 for charities. The amount has been funded and placed under a
> permanent Trust consisting of the Ruler of Indore, two nominees of the
> Ruler, one nominee of the Government of India and two nominees of the Madhya
> Bharat Government. This Trust will also administer the charities of Her
> Highness Maharani Ahalyabai Holkar.
> (ii) His Highness the Nawab of Rampur has agreed to set up a Trust in
> respect of his famous library which contains over 12,000 rare manuscripts
> and several thousands of Moghul miniature paintings.
> (iii) His Highness the Maharaja Gaekwar has agreed to create a Trust with a
> corpus of Rs. 20 millions, the income from which will be available for works
> of public utility in the rural areas of the erstwhile Baroda State and for
> the advancement of education. The new Baroda University will be amongst the
> institutions which will benefit from these Trusts.
> (iv) Gangajali Fund.--This fund, which has a corpus of Rs. 16,237,000 was
> created by the Scindias as a special reserve fund for use during grave
> emergency such as famine. His Highness the Maharaja of Gwalior has made this
> fund available for public benefit. Subject to any instructions or directions
> from the Government of India, the authority to control and administer the
> fund is vested in the Rajpramukh of Madhya Bharat."
> Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014 & Writ Petition No.11234/2020  -56-
> 84\. The political integration of aforesaid territories in India was a
> herculean task as already stated earlier and Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel and
> V.P. Menon played a great role to convince the rulers of the various
> princely states to accede to India. The process of accession / immigration /
> merger took in various steps to accede to India and various instruments of
> accession and covenant were signed by the rulers / states.
85\. In this backdrop, a covenant was published on 07.10.1948 in respect of
Holkar State and it clearly states that all the assets and liabilities of the
covenanting states shall be the asset and liability of the United State
(Madhya Bharat). It further provided for entitlement of private properties to
the ruler, thus, all the properties, which were not the private properties of
the ruler, became the properties of United State (Madhya Bharat). The relevant
extracts of the covenant dated 07.10.1948 reads as under:-
> "THE COVENANT Entered into by the Rulers of Gwalior, Indore and certain
> other States in Central India for the formation of THE UNITED STATE OF
> GWALIOR, INDORE AND MALWA (MADHYA-BHARAT)
> \------------
> We the Rulers of Gwalior, Indore and certain other States in Central India,
> BEING CONVINCED that the welfare of the people of this region can best be
> secured by the establishment of a State comprising the territories of our
> respective States, with a common Executive, Legislature and Judiciary;
> AND HAVING resolved to entrust to a Constituent Assembly consisting of
> elected representatives of the people the drawing up of a democratic
> Constitution for the State within the framework of the Constitution of
> India, to which we have already acceded, and of this Covenant;
> Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014 & Writ Petition No.11234/2020  -57- DO
> HEREBY, with the concurrence and guarantee of the Government of India, enter
> into the following Covenant-
> ARTICLE I.
> ............................. ARTICLE II.
> ............................. ARTICLE III.
> ............................. ARTICLE IV.
> ............................. ARTICLE V.
> ............................. ARTICLE VI.
> (1) The Ruler of each Covenanting State shall, as soon as may be
> practicable, and in any event not later than the 15 th April, 1948, make
> over the administration of his State to the Raj Pramukh : and thereupon-
> (a) all rights, authority and jurisdiction belonging to the Ruler which
> appertain, or are incidental, to the Government of the Covenanting State
> vest in the United State and shall hereafter be exercisable only as provided
> by the Covenant or by the Constitution to be framed thereunder;
> (b) all duties and obligations of the Ruler pertaining or incidental to the
> Government of the Covenanting State shall devolve on the United State and
> shall be discharged by it;
> (c) all the assets and liabilities of the Covenanting State shall be the
> assets and liabilities of the United State; and
> (d) the military forces, if any, of the Covenanting State shall become the
> military forces of the United State.
> (2) When, in pursuance of any such agreement of merger as is referred to in
> clause (b) of paragraph (1) of Article II, the administration of any other
> State is made over to the Raj Pramukh, the provisions of clauses (a), (b),
> (c) and (d) of paragraph (1) of this Article shall apply in relation to such
> States as they apply in relation to a Covenanting State."
86\. By virtue of the covenant, which was published in official gazette of the
Madhya Bharat State, the erstwhile Maharaja became the absolute owner of the
properties Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014 & Writ Petition No.11234/2020
-58- mentioned in the schedule. It is noteworthy to mention that the
properties under the Khasgi Trust were not at all included in the personal
properties of the Maharaja.
87\. The erstwhile ruler of the Holkar State His Highness Maharaja Yashwant
Rao Holkar, Indore made a claim over the Khasgi properties and vide letter
dated 06.05.1949, he was informed about the settlement of the claim in respect
of Khasgi properties. The letter dated 06.05.1949 of the Government of India,
Ministry of States, New Delhi, reads as under:-
> "Ministry of States, New Delhi, (camp) Indore May 6, 1949 Subject :Claim
> made by His Highness Maharaja Yeshwant Rao Holkar of Indore concerning
> Khasgi in the inventories of his private properties submitted in pursuance
> of Article XII of the Madhya Bharat Union Covenant.
> \--
> Your Highness, With reference to the claim made by Your Highness concerning
> the above subject, I write to inform Your Highness that this claim has been
> finally settled on the basis stated in the enclosure to this letter.
> Yours Sincerely, Sd/ V. P. Menon.
> His Highness Maharaja Yeshwant Rao Holkar, Maharaja of Indore, Indore"
88\. The settlement of claim by Government of India in respect of Khasgi
properties is reproduced as under:-
> "Settlement of the claims made by His Highness Maharaja Yeshwant Rao Holkar
> of Indore concerning Khasgi
> \---
> The Khasgi properties and the income from Khasgi shall be treated as lapsed
> for all time to the Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014 & Writ Petition
> No.11234/2020  -59- Madhya Bharat Government. In lieu thereof the following
> guarantees are given subject tot he conditions mentioned below :-
> (1) The Madhya Bharat Government shall in perpetuity set aside annually from
> its revenue a sum of Rs.2,91,952/- (Rupees two lakhs, ninety one thousand,
> nine hundred an fifty two only), being the amount provided in the Holkar
> State budget of 1947-48 for charities. This amount shall be funded and put
> under a permanent Trust for the said charities including the charities of
> Her Highness Maharani Ahilya Bai Holkar.
> The Trust shall consist of the following :
> 1\. Ruler of Indore who will always be the President of the Trust.
> 2\. Two nominees of the Ruler.
> 3\. One nominee of the Government of India.
> 4\. Two nominees of the Madhya Bharat Government.
> Note: The trustees nominated by the Government of India and the Madhya
> Bharat Government shall be so appointed in consultation with the Ruler.
> The powers and functions of the Trust shall be subject to such legislation
> as the Central or Madhya Bharat Government may enact generally for purposes
> of regulating such trusts, except that the composition of the Trust and the
> manner of its formation as stated above shall not be liable to any
> modification or change by such legislation."
The aforesaid settlement makes it very clear that the Khasgi properties, as
they were not the personal properties of the Maharaja, became the exclusive
properties of the Madhya Bharat Government and the Madhya Bharat Government
was to pay Rs.2,91,952/- for upkeep of the properties and the amount so funded
by the Madhya Bharat Government was to be placed under a permanent trust for
the charities of Her Highness Maharani Ahilyabai Holkar. The Government of
India also provided constitution of a trust, which included the nominees of
the Madhya Bharat Government.
89\. The Government of India, vide letter dated Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014,
135/2014 & Writ Petition No.11234/2020  -60- 07.05.1949, informed His Highness
Maharaja Yashwant Rao Holkar about the private properties as per Article 12 of
the covenant governing Madhya Bharat and this was the final settlement made on
the subject and the same reads as under:-
> "Annexure 'A' The following of the list of private properties etc. as
> claimed by His Highness Maharaja Yeshwant Rao Holkar of Indore and accepted
> as such.
> General Note: In the case of building claimed, claimed, reference to these
> includes reference to their contents including furniture, out-house,
> compound etc. Immovable property in the State :
> 1.(a) Manik Bagh Palace together with all the buildings and outhouses and
> the Manik Bagh annex and its out-house.
> (b) Along with the Place and the Annex, the surrounding area as indicated
> below is also included:
> The area bounded by the Railway line from the level-crossing of Bhorkuwa
> Road up to the level-crossing at the Martand Bagh Road, then by the Martand
> Bagh Road from the Railway Crossing to its junction with the Bombay - Agra
> Road; then by the Bombay Agra Road from that point to the Bhorkuwa Cross
> Roads and from there by the Bhorkuwa road up to the Railway level - crossing
> but excluding the area that is vested in the Municipality.
> The area of the Land surrounding the Manik Bagh Palace etc. as claimed in
> His Highness is indicated on the enclosed map (Encl. No. 1) signed by His
> Highness. This shall be Acquired by Government and handed over to Highness
> as expeditiously as possible on payment by His Highness of due compensation
> and will become His Highness Private Property thereafter.
> 2\. Yeshwant Niwas Palace together with its out-house and part of the land
> to the east of the palace between the Yeshwant Club Road and the Yeshwant
> Niwas Road as shown on the plan (signed by His Highness, encl. No.2)
> including the land where the Police Station and water reservoir are
> constructed. The land as claimed is shown by lands ABCDEFGH on the plan.
> 3\. The old place, Indore.
> 3\. Note: High Highness agrees to allow Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014 &
> Writ Petition No.11234/2020  -61- Government to continue to use, a part of
> this palace, as at present, for Government Officers without charging any
> rent, therefore in return for which Government shall be liable to maintain
> the whole of the palace.
4\. The Sukhniwas Ramna area including the Sukhnivas Palace, out-house and
gardens attached to it, the Hava Bungalow with its compound and the
unfurnished Kothi, known as Phuti Kothi but excluding the Sirpur Tanks.
There are of the Sukhniwas Homes, Sukhniwas palace, Hava Bungalow and the
unfurnished Kothi, known as Phuti Kothi is shown on the enclose map signed by
His Highness (Encl. 3)
5\. The lal Bagh Palace, Indore.
6\. The Daryao Mahal, Barwaha.
(i)Such part of the Maheshwar Fort as includes (1) the Palace, i.e. the Bada,
(2) The State Chhatries, and (3) temples including the palace State Chhatries
and the temples.
Note: There would be no objection to the stops leading to the Ghats through
the Bada being used by the public provided the privacy, as at present, of the
inner sanctions of the Bada is maintained.
8\. The Kothi as Bhesle (Rampura - Bhanpura)
9\. Bedar Berchha Bir. This Bir will belong to His Highness subject to his
paying regular assessment on the Bir fixed in accordance with the principles
of soil classification and circle rates. The details of the Bir as claimed are
shown on the enclosed map (signed by His Highness, encl. No.4) Immovable
property outside the State.
10\. The properties in the Deccan:
> (a) Chandwad Estate at present under the management off the Gumasta,
> Chandwad Estate, including the following:
> (1) Lands measuring 3702.12 acres held on ordinary ryotwari tenure spread
> over in 41 villages of different district of the Bombay Province as per
> details given in the State attached hereto (Signed by the Personal Advisor
> to His Highness) (encl. No. 5).
> (2) Inam lands totalling about 1205.25 acres in 6 villages of the Bombay
> Province and the Hyderabad State as per details given in the Statement
> attached hereto (signed by the Personal Advisor to His Highness) (encl. No.
> 6).
> Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014 & Writ Petition No.11234/2020  -62- (3)
> Palace at Chandwad and other houses at various places as per Statement
> (signed by the Personal Advisor to His Highness) (Encl. No. 7).
> (4) Inami lands at Jejuri and Hol villages as per details given in Statement
> (signed by the Personal Advisor to His Highness (encl. No.
> 8) together with Jejuri temple, the fort and the Malhar Tank.
> (b) The Holkar Bada in Poona as well as the lands in that City.
> The Properties in France including Shanti Vilas and Usha Vilas.
Miscellaneous :
12\. Broad-gauge and Meter gauge railway saloons.
13\. Bench Craft Aeroplane.
14\. All properties under the administrative control of the Household
Department of the Holkar State except such of the aforementioned property with
the household Department as has already been transferred to the two guest
houses at Indore viz., the one situated in the building which was known as the
Indore Hotel and the other in Rajendra Bhawan on the Bombay Agra Road.
The above properties claimed consist, in the main of the following:
> (a) Miscellaneous articles including Gold, Silver, Brass and Copper articles
> in use and required for ceremonial occasions and functions. The gold and
> silver articles are kept in the Jawahirkhana.
> (b) Furniture including Bichhayat, articles, canopies, crockery, cutlery.
> (c) Carriages, old gun, palanquins, 'ambaries' and 'Howdas' with equipment.
> (d) Animal including horses and 3 elephant with equipment.
         (e)     Articles in the Shilekhana.
         (f)     The following buildings :
                 1.     Imam Bada.
                 2.     Lakkad Khana.
                 3.     Ambari Khana.
                 4.     Bhoi Khana,
                 5.     Khasbardar Lines.
                 6.     Bunglow with the Officer I/c.
                        Stables.
                 7.     Camp Stores godown with the
                        buildings attached thereto.
         Note : The waiting room at the Indore
         Railway Station shall continue to be
                                     Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014
                                        & Writ Petition No.11234/2020
                            -63-
> maintained, as at present, by Government for use of the Ruler and other
> distinguished persons.
> Note : His Highness shall may on the King over the above mentioned
> properties, a sum of Rs.1,25,000/- (Rupees One lac and twenty five thousand
> only) to the Madhya Bharat Government towards the cost of maintenance of the
> above properties by the Government since the 16th June 1948\.
Jeweler and Gold:
All the jeweler and gold at present in the Huzur Jawahirkhana at Indore except
the following items which shall be treated as Crown (dynastic) jewellery:
(1) Sirpech Note: All these are worn by the Ruler at first-class Darbards.
(2) Pearl necklaces (3) Ceremonial belt.
(4) Ceremonial sword.
Note : The above mentioned items of Crown (dyniastic) jewellery shall be kept
by His Highness (subject to the right of inspection by Government) for use by
Rulers of Indore on ceremonial occasions as in the past.
16\. Silver kept in the Jawahar Khana. This includes all utensils and also
melted silver. The preserves at Burwaha; Rampura-Bhanpura, Rathar; Mohadi,
Matakhodra, Ralamandal, Kanchla and Nahar Zabua in the Indore District;
Ranigaon range, Kantaphod range and Satwas range in the Nemawar District. In
these preserves His Highness the Maharaja of Indore will have exclusive
shooting rights.
The Burwaha preserve is intended to include the following :-
> 1\. Burwaha Ramna.
> 2\. The circuit road from Bavi to the Burwaha Ramna and
> 3\. Asapura, Tarania and Jamnia.
> Note : The Ruler's rights over the above mentioned preserves shall be
> regulated be the general formula that may be approved as regards such
> preserves.
18\. The exclusive rights in spot in the tank of Badagaon, Depalpur (Indore
District) and Choli near Maheshwar (Nimar District)
19\. Income from Alampur Mahal Whatever is the annual income from land revenue
of the village comprised in this Mahal at the time when the Holkar State
joined the Madhya Bharat Union is Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014 & Writ
Petition No.11234/2020  -64- accepted as the income in Perpetuity of the Ruler
of Indore for the purpose of being utilised for the Chhatri at Alampur of the
Founder of the House of Holkers. This annual income shall, with effect from
June 16, 1948, on which the date the Holkar State joined the Madhya Bharat
Union, be found and kept separately under permanent Trust which shall be
empowered to deal with this fund for the above mentioned purpose. Trust shall
consist of the following :
> 1\. Ruler of Indore who will always be the President of the Trust.
> 2\. Two nominees of the Ruler.
> 3\. One nominee of the Government of India.
> Two nominees of the Madhya Bharat Government.
> Note : The trustees nominated by the Government of India and the Madhya
> Bharat Government shall be so appointed in consultation with the Ruler.
The powers and functions of the Trust shall be subject to such legislation as
the Central or Madhya Bharat Government may enact generally for purposes of
regulating such trusts, except that the composition of the Trust and the
manner of its formation as stated above shall no be liable to any modification
or change by such legislation.
20\. General Note:
The Madhya Bharat Government shall take immediate steps to hand over such of
the properties mentioned in this list as may be with the Madhya Bharat
Government to His Highness Maharaja Yeshwant Rao Holkar of Indore or any
person duly authorised by His Highness in this behalf."
Thus, a clear distinction was drawn between the private properties and the
properties vested in the State of Madhya Pradesh in the year 1948 - 49 itself
and in respect of the properties, which were part of the Trust, they also
became absolute property of the State of Madhya Bharat.
90\. A trust deed was executed on 27.06.1962 in respect of Khasgi properties
and relevant extracts of the trust deed dated 27.06.1962 reads as under:-
> "THIS DEED OF TRUST is made this 27th day of June 1962 between Her Highnes
> Maharani Usha Devi of Indore, daughter and successor of Writ Appeal
> Nos.92/2014, 135/2014 & Writ Petition No.11234/2020  -65- Major General His
> Highness Maharaja Yashwantrao Holkar of Indore, G.C.I.E., LL.D.,
> (hereinafter called as the Settlor" which expression shall, where the
> context to admits, include her heirs, executors and administrator) of the
> one part and Her Highness Maharani Usha Devi of Indore, daughter and
> successor of MAJOR GENERAL HIS HIGNNESS MAHARAJA YESHWANT RAO HOLKAR OF
> INDORE G.C.I.E., LL.D., Shri K.A. Chitale, Senior Advocate, Indore and Shri
> S.C. Malhotra, Indore nominees of the Settlor, Shri S.V. Kanungo, nominee of
> the President of India, the Commissioner, Indore Division, Indore and the
> Superintending Engineer (Building and Roads), Public Works Department,
> Indore nominees of the State of Mahdya Pradesh appointed in consultation
> with the Settlor (hereinafter called the Trustees" wich expression shall,
> where the context, so admits, include their survivors or survivor of them
> and the heirs executors and administrators of the last surviving trustee or
> their or his assign) of the other part.
WHEREAS MAJOR GENERAL HIS HIGNESS MAHARAJ YESHWANT RO HOLKAR of Indore, who as
the Ruler of the Holkar State had entered into a Covenant to unite and
integrate the territories of the Holkar State with and into the United State
of Madhya Bharat in terms of the covenant made and executed on 22nd Aprial,
1948, and in pursuance thereof is sas agreed between him, the Government of
India and the United State of Madhya Bharat under an Instrument dated the 7 th
May 1949 that the Khasgi properties and the income from Khasgi shall lapse for
all times to the Madhya Bharat Government and in lieu thereof the Madhya
Bharat Government shall in perpetuity set aside annually from its revenue a
sum of Rs.2,91,952/- (Rupees two lacs ninety one thousand nine hundred fifty
two) only with effect from 16.06.1948 for expending a charities and religious
endowments provided in the budge of the Holkar State for 1947 inclusive of
charities founded by Her Highness Maharani Devi Ahilya Bai Holkar AND FURTHER
that said sum of Rs.2,91,952/- (TWO LACS NINETY ONE THOUSAND NINE HUNDREN
FIFTY TWO ONLY) shall be funded and put under a permanent Trust constituted in
the manner hereinafter specified, for the maintenance, upkeep and preservation
of the said charities and religious endowments.
AND WHEREAS as a result of the reorganisation of the States, the rights and
facilities of the Government of the former State of Madhya Writ Appeal
Nos.92/2014, 135/2014 & Writ Petition No.11234/2020  -66- Bharat haven ot
developed on the Government of Madhya Pradesh.
AND WHEREAS Major General His Highness Maharaja Yeshwant Rao Holkar of Indore
passed away on or about the 5 th December, 1961, succeeded by Her Highness
Maharani Usha Devi who has been recognised by the President as the successor
and Ruler of Indore.
AND WHEREAS in pursuance of the aforesaid agreement Major General His Highness
Maharaja Yeshwant Rao Holkar of Indore was desirous and the Settlor is also
desirous of creating a Trust of the annuity of Rs.2,91,952/- (Rupees two lacs
ninety one thousand nine hundred fifty two) only, in perpetuity of the purpose
of maintenance, upkeep and preservation of the charities and religious
endowment provided in the budget of the Holkar State for the year 1947 - 48,
inclusive of the charities founded by late Her Highness Maharani Devi Ahilya
Bai Holkar (hereinafter referred to as "the said Charities and Religious
Endowments", more particularly described in part 'A' of the Schedule, which
forms part of the indenture) and for the management and maintenance of the
properties appurtenant thereto hereinafter referred to as the Trust
Properties, more particularly described in part ' B' of the Schedule hereto
annexed, which forms part of this indenture.
AND WHEREAS Major General His Highness Maharaja Yeshwant Rao Holkar of Indore
after he had approved of the Deed of the Trust passed away before formally
executing the Trust Deed and on his demise and in terms of the Trust Deed the
party of the Ist part is the Settlor.
AND WHEREAS the trusttes have accepted the office and have become first
Trustees of these present as is testified by their being parties to and
executing these presents.
NOW THEREFORE, THIS INDENTURE WITNESSETH AS FOLLOWS:-
> (1) The Settlor shall be the President of the Trust.
> (2) The Settlor hereby agrees to accept the following persons as trustees
> namely:-
> (i) two persons to be nominated by the Settlor.
> (ii) two persons to be nominated from time to time by the State Government
> in consultation with the Settlor.
> (iii) One person to be nominated from time to time by the Government of
> India in consultation with the Settlor.
(3) The settlor hereby transfers the Trust Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014 &
Writ Petition No.11234/2020  -67- properties to the trustees who shall hold
the same upon trust and shall be responsible for the maintenance, upkeep and
preservation of the said Charities and Religious Endowments.
(4) The Trustees shall held and possess the annuity of Rs.2,91,952/- (Rupees
two lacs ninety one thousand nine hundred fifty two) only payable with effect
from 16th June 1948 by theState Government of Madhya Pradesh from and out of
the consolidated fund of the State and or its successor Government to the
Settlor in perpetuity who for that purpose shall have the power to grant a
valid discharge on the receipt of the said annuity. (5) The Trustees shall
hold and possess the Trust Properties and shall have the power to manage the
said properties and collect all sums of money by way of rent, profit, interest
and any other income accruing to the Trust.
(6) The Trustees shall, in the first instance pay and discharge out of the
gross receipts, inclusive of the aforesaid sum or Rs.2,91,952/- (Rupees two
lacs ninety one thousand nine hundred fifty two only) and the income of the
Trust Properties, all charges and expenses of collection and recovery of the
income and all taxes, rates, dues, assessments and other charges, if any, in
respect thereof. (7) The Trustees shall prepare the Budget estimates of the
Trust every year and shall apply the income for the fulfillment of the
subjects of the Trust as referred to in paragraph 2 on the preamble of this
Deed and for the maintenance, upkeep and preservation of the Trust Properties
in good condition and shall make necessary repairs thereto and the balance, if
any, shall be held and accumulated for being applied in the fulfillment of the
aforesaid objedt of the Trust and for purposes set out in clause (14)
hereunder.
(8) The Settlor hereby covenants with the Trustees that , notwithstanding
anything herein contained, if any person claiming through or under the Settlor
or any other person, shall at any time make any claim or demand against the
Trustees of any of them on account of any payment made by the Trustees of any
part of the income or the corpus of the Trust Properties to any person
whosoever in pursuance of the provisions of the these presents or on account
of any act, deed or thing done or executed or caused or suffered to be done in
pursuance of these presents or on the strength hereof, then the Settlor shall
indemnify and keep indemnified and harmless the Trustees against all such
claims and demands and against any loss, Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014 &
Writ Petition No.11234/2020  -68- damages, costs, charges and expenses, which
the Trustees or any of them may suffer or incur by reason or in consequence of
any such payment having been made by them or any such act, deed or thing done
or exceeded or caused or suffered to be done or executed by them or any of
them and the Settlor shall make good and reimburse to any such Trustees on
Trustee all losses, damages, costs, charges or expenses which such Trustees or
trustees shall suffer, incur or be called upon or liable to pay on account of
any person making any such claim or demand as aforesaid.
(9) The Settlor hereby further covenants with the Trustees that
notwithstanding any act, ded, matter or thing whatsoever by the Settlor or any
person or persons lawfully or equitably claiming from under or in Trust for
her made done, omitted or executed or willingly or knowingly suffered to the
contrary, the Settlor shall have absolute power to grant, release convey and
assume the Trust Properties and subject to the Trust hereof, it shall be
lawful for the Trustees from time to time and at all times hereafter peaceably
and quietly to hold, posses and enjoy the Trust properties hereby granted with
their appurtenances and receive the rents and profits thereof without any
lawful eviction, interruption, claim and demand whatsoever from or by the
Settlor or from or by any other person or persons lawfully or equitably
claiming through her or in trust for her and that the Trust Properties are
free and clear and freely and clearly and absolutely, acquitted, exonerated,
released and for ever discharged or otherwise by the Settlor well and
sufficiently saved, defended and kept harmless and indemnified of, from and
against all estates, charges and encumbrances whatsoever either already or to
be hereafter made, executed occasioned and suffered by the Settlor or by any
other person or persons lawfully or equitably claiming through her or in trust
for her and further that the Settlor and all persons having or lawfully or
equitably claiming any estate, right, title or interest at alw or in equity in
the Trust Properties hereby granted or nay part thereof , by, from, under or
in Trust for her shall and will from time to time and at all times hereafter
at the request of the Trustees but at their cost do and execute or cause to be
done and executed all such further and other lawful and reasonable acts, deed,
things, matters and assurances whatsoever for further and more perfectly and
absolutely granting and assuring the Trust Properties hereby transferred into
the aforesaid Trustees as shall or may be reasonable Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014,
135/2014 & Writ Petition No.11234/2020  -69- required.
(10) The Settlor in her capacity as president of the Trust shall be entitled
to appoint any Person as her duly constituted Attorney, to do all acts, deed
and things of ministerial nature.
(11) The Trustees shall keep and maintain regular and accurate accounts in
respect of the income and expenditure of the Trust Property and shall, when so
required by the Settlor make them available or inspection by the Chartered
Accountants. (12) The Settlor hereby authorises the Trustees to invest the
Trust fund in accordance with the provisions of the Indian Trust Act, 1882 (11
of 1882) (hereinafter referred to as the said Act) and the Trustees shall
transact their business in accordance with such regulations not inconsistent
with the said Act, in conformity with the provisions of the said Act.
(13) In the event of a vacancy occurring among the Trustees due to death,
retirement resignation or any other cause, it shall be filled in :
> (a) in the case of Settlor, by the successor as the Ruler or Indore : and
> (b) in other cases by a person nominated in the manner provided in clause
> (2) above.
(14) The accumulated savings under the Trust which in the opinion or the
Trustees are surplus to the requirement of the Trust may be utilised by the
Trustees for any public purpose approved by the State Government and not
inconsistent with the provisions of the Indian Trusts Act, 1882. (15) The
Trustees shall exercise the powers and discharge the duties hereunder in
accordance with the provisions of the said Act and subject to each legislation
as the Central Government or the Government of Madhya Pradesh may make
generally for purposes of regulating such Trusts. (16) The expenditure already
incurred by the erstwhile Government of Madhya Bharat from 16.06.1948 upto
31.10.1956 and thereafter, by the Government of Madhya Pradesh from 01.11.1956
to the date of handing over the Trust Properties to Trustees for the
maintenance, upkeep and preservation of the said charities and religious
endowments and / or management and maintenance of the Trust Properties shall
adjusted from the income, if any, derived from the Trust Properties and from
the amount or security payable by the State Governmetn of Mahdya Pradesh
hereunder to the Trust.
(17) It is hereby declared that the Trustees have accepted the Trust and that
the Trust Properties and the relevant title deeds have been made over to the
Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014 & Writ Petition No.11234/2020  -70- Trustees
and vested in the them for purposes of the Trust.
In witness whereof the parties hereto have signed this INDENTURE on the date
or mentioned in each case."
The aforesaid trust deed makes it very clear that as per the instrument dated
07.05.1949 executed in accordance with the covenant dated 22.04.1948, the
Khasgi properties and the income from the Khasgi properties shall lapse for
all time to the Madhya Bharat Government and in lieu thereof the Government
shall in perpetuity set aside annually from its revenue a sum of
Rs.2,91,952/-. The trust deed also makes it very clear that the properties
will not be sold, the Trust shall hold and possess the Trust properties and
have the power to manage the said properties only.
91\. Another important aspect of the case is that the trust deed was also
executed by Maharaja Yashwant Rao Holkar in favour of Princess Usha Devi in
respect of the personal properties of Maharaja on 10.04.1950 and the trust
deed dated 10.04.1950 did not include the Khasgi properties.
92\. The Madhya Bharat Government issued a notification empowering the
Commissioner and Collector in respect of Maufi land. As already stated
earlier, a Trust was constituted in respect of Khasgi (Devi Ahilyabai Holkar
Charities) Trust on 27.06.1962 and a gazette notification was issued on
27.07.1962 by the Divisional Commissioner. The Trust in fact is misconstruing
notification dated 27.07.1962. As per the notification dated 27.07.1962, it
was issued only for the purpose of upkeep and maintenance of the trust
properties by the Trust as earlier on account of notification dated
28.12.1954, they were required to be maintained by Maufi section of Madhya
Pradesh Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014 & Writ Petition No.11234/2020  -71-
Government.
93\. Shri M.N. Jagdale, the Secretary of the Trust, in the year 1969 i.e. on
08.05.1969, wrote a letter to the Chief Secretary of the State of Madhya
Pradesh admitting categorically that there is no provision for sale of Trust
properties, and therefore, sanction be accorded by the State of Madhya Pradesh
for sale of Trust properties i.e., Nagwa Bagicha. The letter of Secretary of
the Trust is reproduced as under:-
> "8th May 1969.
> Dear Shri Shrivastava Saheb, In their meeting held on 20th April 1969 the
> Trust Deed of the Khasgi (Devi Ahilyabai Holkar Charities) Trust resolved
> that sanction of the Madhya Pradesh Government may be sought to sell the
> Nagwa Bagicha, an open piece of land measuring 2.56 acres at Varanasi,
> belonging to the Khasgi Trust.
> 2\. In this connection I am to refer to Resolution dated 4th May 1968 of the
> Trustees in which it was decided to create a building fund by appropriation
> of annual savings, if any, and of the sale-proceeds f lands, buildings and
> other properties which are not of religious, charitable or historical
> importance. This became imperative for the simple reason that the main
> income of the Trust is the annuity from the Madhya Pradesh Government which
> is based on the expenditure of the Charitable Department of the then Holkar
> State as provided in the budget of the year 1947-48. As you are aware,
> prices particularly of articles required for Pooja, Archa, Naivedya and
> materials required for maintenance of buildings have now gone up
> phenomenally high so that it is wellnigh impossible to maintain the
> properties from this income. Hence the need of disposal of buildings and
> other properties which are no longer of any religious significance and which
> do not come within the real objects of "the charities" of the Trust.
> 3\. The case of Nagwa Bagicha has been examined from the point of view
> mentioned in the foregoing paragraph. The Bagicha served a definite purpose
> in ancient times in providing a resting place to pilgrims going to
> Pachkroishi yatra of Varanasi. Now the Bagicha is auctioned for about
> Rs.500/- to persons who grow some vegetables or cereals there.
> Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014 & Writ Petition No.11234/2020  -72- This
> property comprising of an open piece of land measuring 2.56 acres with a
> small hut and a 'pucca' well can now be sold for a very good price. Already
> there is an offer of Rs.1,60,000/-. The only alternative for the Trustees is
> to develop this land for putting up building, etc. This, however, is not a
> practical proposition.
> 4\. There is no express provision in the Trust Deed (copy enclosed)
> empowering the Trustees to sell the Trust properties although by implication
> it is felt that they should be able to do as the object of the sale is to
> find ways and means of maintaining and preserving the charities as such. The
> case has been examined fully from the legal point of view by the Trustees,
> Shri K. A. Chitale and his opinion is enclosed. In the light of this opinion
> it has been decided to refer the case to the Government for sanction.
> 5\. I may add that this land was under acquisition by the Varanasi Municipal
> Corporation. Fortunately it has now been released. There is however, the
> apprehension that the Housing Board may step in place of the Municipal
> Corporation to acquire this land like may other similar lands. Hence the
> urgency for taking quick action.
> In the circumstances of this case it will be very much appreciated if
> Government sanction could be obtained and communicated to the Trustees as
> early as possible.
> Yours sincerely, Sd/-.
> (M. M. Jagdale) Secretary Shri M. P. Shrivastava, Chief Secretary, Madhya
> Pradesh Government, Vallabh Bhawan, B H O P A L."
94\. The Chief Secretary of the State of Madhya Pradesh, in response to the
letter of the Trust, wrote a D.O. letter to the Secretary on 13.06.1969 and
the same reads as under:-
> "The 13th June 1969.
> 23 Jyaistha 1891.
> My dear Shri Kanungo Sahib, Kindly refer to the letter no. 200/Gen dated the
> 9th May 1969 from the Secretary, Khasgi Trust, Shri M. M. Jagdale, The Law
> Department was Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014 & Writ Petition
> No.11234/2020  -73- consulted in the matter and, according to their opinion,
> Government do not come into the picture and, therefore, the question of
> according any sanction for the intended transfer by sale of any item of
> Trust Property does not arise.
> Yours Sincerely, ( M P SHRIWASTVA ) Shri S V Kanungo, Ravindranath Tagore
> Marg, INDORE."
Though the aforesaid letter refers to some opinion from the Law Department,
however, it was never placed by the either side on record. Otherwise also, the
letter of the Chief Secretary is mere D.O. letter and the property of the
Government cannot be sold by issuance of a D.O. letter without a cabinet
decision.
95\. Another important aspect of the case is that Shri M.P. Shrivastava, The
Chief Secretary was also one of the trustees, thus his D.O. letter dated
30.06.1969 does not have any legal sanctity.
96\. The Trust on 23.06.1969 submitted an application under Section 35(1)(a)
of the Madhya Pradesh Public Trust Act, 1956 to the Registrar of Public Trust,
Indore seeking a decision whether the Trust was within exemption from the
operation of Madhya Pradesh Trust Act, 1951. In the aforesaid letter also in
paragraph - 2, it was admitted that as per the trust deed the properties have
lapsed in the State of Mahdya Pradesh, meaning thereby, the properties are
absolutely the properties of the State Government. Paragraphs - 2 and 6 of the
application reads as under:-
> "2. The Trust was constituted under a Deed of Trust dated 27th June 1962
> executed after the demise of His late Highness by Her Highness Maharani Usha
> Devi, the daughter and successor of Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014 & Writ
> Petition No.11234/2020  -74- His late Highness, as the Settlor, in favour of
> herself and five others as Trustees. A copy of the said Deed is annexed
> herewith marked 'ANNEXURE 'B' will be apparent from the said Deed of Trust
> that in .. of lapse of property called Khasgi properties and the .. from
> Khasgi property to the Government, the Government ... undertook to earmark
> annually in perpetuity the sum of Rs.2,91,952/- from the revenue of the
> Government for .. expending on charities and religious endowment including
> charities founded by Maharani Devi Ahilyabai Holkar.
> 6\. The charities and religious endowments were initially under the
> management of the erstwhile Holkar State. The management and possession was,
> after the merger of the Holkar State with the United States of Madhya Bharat
> taken over by the Government of the United States of Madhya Bharat and
> remained in the hands of the said Government and its successor Government
> until it was delivered to the Trustees pursuant to the Trust Deed. The
> actual management and possession was transferred by the Government on
> 16-7-1962 and was subsequently notified by a Notification dated 27-7- 1962\.
> The report evidencing the delivery of the management and possession by the
> Governor to the Trust is annexed and marked 'C' and a copy of the
> notification is annexed and marked 'D'."
The Trust itself has admitted in paragraph - 2 that the properties are the
State Government's properties and in paragraph - 6, it has been admitted by
the Trust that the charities and the religious endowments were under the
Management of Holkar State earlier, and subsequently, they have been taken
over by the State of Madhya Pradesh.
97\. The Trust in question kept on writing letter to various authorities for
sale of Trust properties and the Under Secretary, General Administration
Department, State of Madhya Pradesh issued a letter to the Commissioner
stating categorically that the Khasgi Trust will have to seek permission under
Section 14 of the M.P. Public Trust, 1951 from the Registrar in case of sale
of any of the Trust properties. This letter was duly served to the Trust and
the Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014 & Writ Petition No.11234/2020  -75-
Trust, at no point of time, took any objection in the matter.
98\. On 10.08.1971, the Registrar, Public Trust, Indore, passed an order
exempting Khasgi (Devi Ahilyabai Holkar Charities) Trust from its registration
only.
99\. Section 36(1)(a) of the M.P. Public Trust Act, 1951 reads as under:-
> "Section 36. Exemption - (1) Nothing contained in this Act shall apply to -
> (a) A public Trust administered by any agency acting under the control of
> the State or by any local authority....."
> For exemption under the M.P. Public Trust, 1951, a notification is mandatory
> under Section 36(2) of the M.P.
Public Trust Act, 1951 and in the present case, no such notification has been
placed on record. Thus, the order passed by the Registrar does not give any
exemption to the Trust.
100\. The most unfortunate thing, which happened, was execution of
supplementary trust deed on 08.02.1972. A supplementary trust deed was
executed by the trustees and it was mentioned in the fourth paragraph that the
power to sell immovable properties of the Trust has not been expressly stated
in the original trust deed but it was implied. It was declared that the
trustees always had and shall have the power to alienate the property of the
Trust for benefit of the Trust. Relevant extracts of the supplementary trust
deed reads as under:-
> "Supplementary Deed Of Trust AND WHEREAS in the administration of the Trust,
> the Trustees have realised that some items of immovable property have to be
> sold for the benefit of the religious and charitable endowments which are
> the objects of the Trust.
> AND WHEREAS the power to sell such items is implied in the Deed of the Trust
> but has not been Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014 & Writ Petition
> No.11234/2020  -76- expressly stated.
> AND WHEREAS it is deemed expedient expressly to confer on the Trustees the
> power to alienate any items of the corpus of the Trust properties and / or
> the imcome thereof when it is necessary and for the benefit of the
> charitable endowments to do so.
> NOW, THEREFORE, THIS INDENTURE WITNESSETH AS FOLLOWS.
> For the removal of any doubt, the Settlor declares that the Trustees have
> always had and shall have the power to alienate not only the income but any
> item of the corpus of the Trust property, movable or immovable, for the
> necessity or benefit to the objects of the Trust and / or for the convenient
> or more beneficial administration of the Religions or Charitable endowments
> mentioned in the Deed of Trust dated 27th June 1962.
> IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto have signed this indenture on the date
> and year mentioned in each case."
The aforesaid amendment is certainly a nullity as it is without authority. It
is contrary to the spirit of the original trust deed which was for the
maintenance, upkeep and preservation of the properties and the same is also
the object of the State Government behind formation of the Trust. The title of
the properties had lapsed in perpetuity with the State of Madhya Pradesh
(Madhya Bharat) and it was never transferred to the Trust. Thus, the Trust
could not have sold the properties and no such sale was approved by the
Registrar, Public Trust, Indore.
101\. It is pertinent note that various civil suits have been filed in respect
of the properties belonging to erstwhile Maharaja Yashwant Rao Holkar and one
such civil suit was filed i.e., Civil Suit No.15/1973 by Shriman Malhar Rao
Holkar against Princess Usharaje Holkar and others. A written statement was
filed on 18.02.1974 on behalf of the Trust and other defendants in the
aforesaid civil suit and the Trust has admitted before the trial Court in the
aforesaid civil suit that Khasgi Trust properties are not the personal
properties. It has been categorically stated on affidavit by Writ Appeal
Nos.92/2014, 135/2014 & Writ Petition No.11234/2020  -77- the trustees that
the trust deed dated 27.06.1962 creating Khasgi Trust and Alampur Trust are
not the joint family properties or ancestral properties or personal
properties. It has also been stated in the written statement that the Trust
properties vested in the United State of Madhya Bharat up to 1956 after 1948
and after 1956 into the State of Madhya Pradesh. Thus, in respect of various
litigation, the trustees have admitted before this Court also (F.A.
No.264/2003) that the ownership of the Trust properties lies with the State of
Madhya Pradesh.
102\. The trustees on 07.02.2005 made an application to the Registrar, Public
Trust seeking permission for grant of lease of Trust properties and this fact
establishes that the trustees were well aware that the Trust in question is a
public Trust governed by M.P. Public Trust Act, 1951. The applications made by
the trustees were rejected on 14.12.2005. The Trust in question, in spite of
the fact that the State of Madhya Pradesh is the titleholder of the Trust
properties, kept on leasing out various properties for peanuts. On 28.07.2007,
the Secretary of the Trust leased out the property of Ganpati Mandir, South
Tora, Zuni, Indore admeasuring 1800 sq.ft. for a period of 30 years to one
Abdul Rehman for Rs.720/- per year. The meager amount of Rs.720/- per year
shows that malafides involved in the transaction.
103\. On 05.06.2008, a resolution was passed by the trustees authorizing
trustees Shri S.C. Malhotra and Shri K.S. Rathore to finalize sale of Trust
property situated at Haridwar i.e. Kusha Ghat admeasuring 11931 sq.ft. Kusha
Ghat is a Ghat of great historic importance and in Haridwar Writ Appeal
Nos.92/2014, 135/2014 & Writ Petition No.11234/2020  -78- all Mundan Sanskars
take place at Kusha Ghat. It is being used since time immemorial by the
believers of Hindu faith and it is open to public at large and in respect of
this particular property, which is a Ghat and shops, a resolution was passed
by the Trust authorizing the trustees to dispose it off.
104\. Section 47 of the Indian Trust Act, 1882 reads as under:-
> "47. Trustee cannot delegate.--A trustee cannot delegate his office or any
> of his duties either to a co- trustee or to a stranger, unless
> (a) the instrument of trust so provides, or (b) the delegation is in the
> regular course of business, or (c) the delegation is necessary, or (d) the
> beneficiary, being competent to contract, consents to the delegation.
> Explanation.--The appointment of an attorney or proxy to do an act merely
> ministerial, and involving no independent discretion is not a delegation
> within the meaning of this section. Illustrations
> (b) A bequeaths certain property to B and C on certain trusts to be executed
> by them or the survivor of them or the assigns of such survivor. B dies, C
> may bequeath the trust property to D and E upon the trusts of A's will.
> (c) A is a trustee of certain property with power to sell the same. A may
> employ an auctioneer to effect the sale.
> (d) A bequeaths to B fifty houses let at monthly rents in trust to collect
> the rents and pay them to C. B may employ a proper person to collect these
> rents. Comments No trustee can delegate his powers and duties to another
> transtee and any agreement to do so would be illegal and void and would not
> be covered by any of the exceptions in section 47; H.E.H.: The Nizam's
> Jewellery Trust (in re:), AIR 1980 SC 17."
As per the aforesaid statutory provision of law, a trustee cannot delegate
power unless at least any one of the four conditions mentioned thereunder is
fulfilled.
105\. The most shocking aspect of the case is that the resolution was passed
on 05.06.2008 and the sale agreement was already executed on 08.02.2007,
meaning thereby, after Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014 & Writ Petition
No.11234/2020  -79- executing the agreement, without there being any authority
from the trustees, subsequent resolution was passed authorizing two of the
trustees to finalize sale of the property. It makes it very clear that the
agreement was executed without there being any authority from the trustees. At
the time of execution of agreement to sell dated 08.02.2007, there was an
interim order against the transfer of the property or creation of any rights
passed by this Court in F.A. No.264/2003.
106\. As already stated earlier, the property of Kusha Ghat is of great
religious importance and finds a mention in Scandapuran which is one of the
oldest scriptures in Hinduism. Hindi translation of the relevant portion of
the scripture is quoted as under (Annexure-R/19):-
> "----------D;ksafd ;gka ij xaxk us vius Hkaoj es esjs dq'kks dks /kkj.k
> fd;k] blfy;s ;g dq'kkorZ uke ls izfl) rhFkZ gksxkA /kU; ekuo ;gka Luku rFkk
> fir` riZ.k djsaxs ---------------- egkrhFkZ dq'kkorZ esa fn;k gqvk nku dksfV
> xq.k vf/kd gksxk -------------------"
107\. After passing a resolution on 05.06.2008, Shri S.C. Malhotra one of the
trustees on 05.09.2008 executed a Power of Attorney appointing one Raghvendra
Sharma as Trust duly appointed attorney with respect to the property situated
at Kusha Ghat (Haridwar) admeasuring 13370 sq.ft. (Annexure-R/16). It is
pertinent to note that the resolution of the Trust dated 05.06.2008 did not
authorize Shri S.C. Malhotra to execute further a Power of Attorney for sale
of property, however, on his own he executed a Power of Attorney in favour of
Raghvendra Sharma who was totally a stranger to dispose of Kusha Ghat which is
of great religious importance as it finds place in Scandapuran also.
108\. It is also pertinent to note that Shri S.C. Malhotra was only authorized
by the Trust for the property Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014 & Writ
Petition No.11234/2020  -80- admeasuring 11931 sq. ft., however, he executed a
Power of Attorney with respect to property admeasuring 13370 sq.ft.
109\. The validity of power of Attorney dated 05.06.2008 came to an end and a
fresh Power of Attorney was executed by Shri K.S. Rathore in respect of Shri
Raghvendra Sharma on 05.06.2009. Shri K.S. Rathore was not a trustee and he
had no power to execute the Power of Attorney. Shri Raghvendra Shrama on the
basis of Power of Attorney executed by Shri K.S. Rathore on 02.09.2009, sold
out the Trust properties situated at Kusha Ghat (Haridwar) to one Smt. Nikita
W/o Shri Raghvendra Sharma (his own wife) and Shri Aniruddh Kumar. Shri
Raghvendra Sharma also leased out the land admeasuring 653 sq.m. to Shri
Aniruddh Kumar for a period of 29 years.
110\. The trustees of the Khasgi Trust, knowing fully well that they are not
the owner of the property in question, entered into sale of Trust properties
and sold Ghat property of great religious importance and as they were aware of
the fact that they are not the owner of the Trust properties, preferred a writ
petition before this Court i.e. W.P. No.11618/2012 against the State of Madhya
Pradesh & three others for quashment of order dated 05.11.2012 and order dated
30.11.2012.
111\. The order passed the Collector dated 05.11.2012 and order dated
30.11.2012 passed by the Registrar dated 30.11.2012 are reproduced as under:-
> "U;k;ky; dysDVj] ftyk bUnkSj] e-iz-
> izdj.k dzekad 12@ch&113@2012&13 %% vkns'k %% ikfjr fnukad 5@11@2012
> vk;qDr] bUnkSj laHkkx] bUnkSj dk;kZy; ls ekuuh; lkaln Writ Appeal
> Nos.92/2014, 135/2014 & Writ Petition No.11234/2020  -81- egksn; }kjk
> izsf"kr i= izkIr gqvk ftlesa mYysf[kr fd;k x;k fd [kllxh nsoh vfgY;kckbZ
> gksYdj psfjVht VLV] bUnkSj dh lEifRr;ka ,sfrgkfld /kjksgj gS rFkk vR;ar
> ewY;oku gSA mDr VLV dk xBu [kklxh lEifRr;ksa ds la/kkj.k gsrq fd;k x;k Fkk]
> fdUrq VLV }kjk gjf}kj fLFkr dw'kkorZ ?kkV voS/kkfud :i ls fodz; fd;k x;k
> gSA ;g vR;ar xaHkhj fo"k; gSA Hkfo"; esa [kklxh lEifRr;ksa dk voS/kkfud
> fodz; jksduk ,oa mudks lqjf{kr djuk vR;ar vko';d gSA [kklxh nsoh vfgY;kckbZ
> gksYdj psfjVht VLV] bUnkSj ds xBu ds iwoZ {ks=] laLFkku] dkj[kkus] nsoLFkku
> N=ht Hkou ,oa mldh lEifRr;ksa dk j[k j[kko ekQh vkfQl] vk;qDr dk;kZy;
bankSj laHkkx dh ns[kjs[k esa fd;k tkrk FkkA iath;d] yksd U;kl bUnkSj iz0 dz0
5@ch@113@66&67 iqjkuk ,oa u;k uacj 13@ch@113@70&71 esa vkns'k fnukad 10@8@1971
ls [kklxh nsoh vfgY;kckbZ gksYdj psfjVht VLV] bUnkSj dks iath;u ls NwV fn,
tkus dk vkns'k fn;k x;k gSA mDr vkns'k esa mYysf[kr fd;k x;k gS fd [kkldh
lEifRr ds jkT; 'kklu esa foy;u gksus ds i'pkr -------------- :- 2]91]952@&
izfro"kZ jkf'k ds O;oLFkkiUu djus gsrq fu;qDr fd;k x;k Fkk vkSj blh fy, ;g
VLV cuk;k x;k gSA ftldk foLr`r mYys[k Hkkjr 'kklu ,oa bUnkSj ds iwoZ 'kkldksa
ds e/; fu"ikfnr Settlement Of Claim fnukad 6@5@1949 esa fd;k x;k gSA ewy VLV
MhM dk fuEu va'k fo'ks"k :i ls iBuh; gS WHEREAS MAJOR GENERAL HIS HIGHNESS
MAHARAJA YESHWANT RAO HOLKAR of Indore, who as ruler of the Holkar State has
entered into a Covenant to unite and integrate the territories of the Holkar
State with and into the United State Of Madhya Bharat in terms of the Covenant
made and executed on 22nd April 1948, and in pursuance thereof is was agreed
between him, the Government of India and United State Of Madhya Bharat under
an Instrument dated the 7th May 1949 that the Khasgi properties and the income
from Khasgi shall lapse for all times to the Madhya Bharat Government and in
lieu thereof the Madhya Bharat Government shall perpetuity set aside annually
from its revenue a sum of Rs.2,91,952/- (Rupees two lakhs, ninety one
thousand, nine hundred an fifty two only), With effect from 16-6-1948 for
expending on charities and religious endowment provided in the budget of the
Holkar State for 1947-48 inclusive of charities founded by Her Highness
Maharani Devo Ahilya Bai Holkar AND FURTHER that the said sum of
Rs.2,91,952/-(RUPEES TWO LACS NINETY ONE THOUSAND NINE HUNDRED FIFTY TWO only)
Shall be Funded And put under a permanent Trust constituted in the manner
hereinafter specified, for the maintenance upkeep and preservation of the said
charities and religious endowments.
VLVMhM ds mDr va'k ds ijh{k.k ls ;g Li"V gksrk gS fd Hkkjr dh Lora=rk ds
mijkar tc fofHkUu fj;klrksa dk Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014 & Writ
Petition No.11234/2020  -82- Hkkjro"kZ esa foy; gqvk rc bUnkSj ds egkjktk
;'koUrjko gksYdj ml le; gksYdj LVsV ds 'kkld FksA fj;klr dk rRdkyhu e/;Hkkjr
i'pkrorhZ e/;izns'k esa foy; dk foys[k fnukad 22 vizSy 1948 dks fy[kk x;k
rFkk bl foys[k ds vk/kkj ij jktk rFkk e/; Hkkjr ljdkj e/;izns'k o Hkkjr
ljdkj ds chp fnukad 7 ebZ] 1949 dks ,d foys[k fu"ikfnr gqvk ftlesa mHk;i{kksa
ds chp lgefr gqbZ fd Khasgi properties and the income from Khasgi shall lapse
for all times to the Madhya Bharat Government and in lieu thereof the Madhya
Bharat Government shall in perpetuity set aside annually from its revenue a
sum of Rs.2,91,952/- (Rupees two lakhs, ninety one thousand, nine hundred an
fifty two only), With effect from 16-6-1948 for expending on charities and
religious endowment provided in the budget of the Holkar State for 1947-48
inclusive of charities founded by Her Highness Maharani Devi Ahilya Bai Holkar
AND FURTHER that the said sum of Rs.2,91,952/-(RUPEES TWO LACS NINETY ONE
THOUSAND NINE HUNDRED FIFTY TWO only) Shall be Funded And put under a
permanent Trust constituted in the manner hereinafter specified, for the
maintenance upkeep and preservation of the said charities and religious
endowments. blls ;g rkRi;Z fudyrk gS fd 7 ebZ 1949 ds i'pkr [kklxh izkiVhZt ds
:i esa vafdr leLr lEifRr o mlls gksus okyh vk; e/; Hkkjr ljdkj@e0iz0 ljdkj esa
fufgr gks xbZ Fkh vkSj bl izdkj ;g lEifRr 7 ebZ 1949 ds i'pkr e/; izns'k ljdkj
esa fufgr 'kkldh; o lkoZtfud lEifRr dh Js.kh esa vkb xbZ FkhA e/; Hkkjr
ljdkj@e/;izns'k ljdkj us bl lEifRr ds maintenance upkeep o preservation ds fy,
:- 2]91]952@& dh ,U;qVh Lohd`r dh gSA Lohd`r dh xbZ bl /kujkf'k ds lnqi;ksx
fufEkRr bl VLV dk fuekZ.k 27 twu] 1962 dks VLVMhM ls fd;k x;k rFkk bl
/kujkf'k dk iz;ksx VLVht dh ns[k js[k esa e/;izns'k ljdkj esa fufgr izkiVhZt
ds maintenance upkeep o preservation ds fy;s fd;k tkuk fu/kkZfjr gSA vr% ;g
rF; Li"V gS fd iz'uk/khu lHkh laifRr;ka jkT; 'kklu esa fufgr gSA dksousaV 1949
,oa izFke VLVhMhM 1962 esa ;gh fyf[kr gS fd [kklxh lEifRr;ksa dk la/kkj.k
djuk VLV dk nkf;Ro gS ysfdu VLV dks lEifRr;ksa ds fodz; dk vf/kdkj drbZ
mn~Hkwr ugh gksrk gSA i'pkrorhZ iwjd MhM 1972 esa VLV } kjk 'kklu dh
iwokZuqefr ds fcuk VLV lEifRr ds fodz; dk vf/kdkj izkIr djus dh vukf/kd`r
ps"Vk dh xbZ gS tks fd voS/kkfud gSA [kklxh nsoh vfgY;kckbZ gksYdj psfjVht
VLV] bUnkSj dh U;klMhM vuqlkj jkT; 'kklu esa foyf;r vpy lEifRr;ka iwjs Hkkjr
o"kZ ds vyx&vyx izns'kksa esa fLFkr gSA vpy lEifRr;ka dk voS/kkfud :i ls
varj.k jksdus ds mn~ns'; ls mDr vpy lEifRr;ksa dk banzkt jktLo vfHkys[kksa esa
e/; izns'k jkT; 'kklu ds Hkwfe Lokeh LoRo ij vafdr fd;k tkuk vko';d gSA vr%
jkT; 'kklu dh lEifRr dk voS/kkfud varj.k ij jksd yxkus ds n`f"Vdks.k ls
vknsf'kr fd;k tkrk gS fd U;kl dks Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014 & Writ
Petition No.11234/2020  -83- ek= O;oLFkk ds fy, lkSaih xbZ leLr vpy lEifRr;ksa
ij jkT; 'kklu dk Hkwfe Lokeh LoRo Hkw vfHkys[kksa ds Hkwfe Lokeh LoRo ds :i
esa vafdr fd;k tkosa ,oa Li"Vr% vgLrkarj.kh; fy[kk tk;saA pwafd Hkkjr ds vU;
izns'kksa esa Hkh mYysf[kr jkT; 'kklu dh lacaf/kr vusd lEifRr gSA vr% mu
izns'kksa ds lacaf/kr dysDVj dks vkns'k dh izfr fdz;kUo;u gsrq Hksth tkosaA
bUnkSj ftys ds lacaf/kr lHkh vuqfoHkkxh; vf/kdkjh] bankSj ,oa rglhynkj ,oa
vk;qDr uxj ikfyd fuxe] bankSj funsZ'kkuqlkj banzkt djkdj rRdky ikyu djk;k tkdj
ikyu izfrosnu bl U;k;ky; esa rRdky Hkstsa A dysDVj"
U;k;ky; iath;d] yksd U;kl] ftyk bUnkSj] e0iz0 dksVZ :e ua0 216 iz'kklfud
ladqy] ftyk dysDVj dk;kZy;] bUnkSj dzekd @yksd U;kl@2012 bUnkSj]fnukad
30@11@2012 izfr] l;qDr lapkyd dks"k ,oa ys[kk] bUnkSj] e-iz-
fo"k;%& [kklxh nsoh vkfgY;kckbZ gksYdj psfjVht VLV] bUnkSj dk fo'ks"k
vads{k.k djus ckcnA [kklxh nsoh vkfgY;kckbZ gksYdj psfjVht VLV] bUnkSj dks
e0iz0 jkT; 'kklu }kjk U;kl dh lEifRr ds j[k&j[kko gsrq jkf'k : 2]91]952@&
izfro"kZ iznku dh tk jgh gSA U;kl }kjk ns'k ds fofHkUu LFkyksa ij fLFkfr
eafnj] nsoky;] /keZ'kkykvksa] ?kkV ,oa vU; lEifRr;ksa ds j[k j[kko ls izkIr
vk; ,oa O;; dk lqO;OkfLFkr vad{k.k fd;k tkuk gSA 'kklu fu;af=r gksus ds dkj.k
vkidksa U;kl dk fo'ks"k vads{kd fu;qfDr fd;k tkrk gSA vr% vki nks ekg dh vof/k
esa U;kl ds vk;&O;; ,oa izkfIr&Hkqxrku rFkk vU; foRrh; fLFkfr;ksa dk vads{k.k
U;kl xBu ls o"kZ 2011&12 rd lqfuf'pr dj vaad{k.k izfrosnu e; vk;&O;; i=d ds bl
dk;kZy; dks voxr djkuk lqfuf'pr djsaA iath;d yksd U;kl] bUnkSj] e-iz-
s dzekad 623@yksd U;kl@2012 bUnkSj] fnukad 30@1122012
112\. In the considered opinion of this Court, as the properties in question
are exclusively the properties of the State of Madhya Pradesh, the trustees
have got no right to dispose of Kusha Ghat properties. The learned Single
Judge has allowed both the writ petitions by a common order and has held that
all previous transactions done by the Trust will not be looked into. This
Court really fails to understand as Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014 & Writ
Petition No.11234/2020  -84- to how the stamp of approval has been accorded by
the learned Single Judge in respect of transfer of properties of the State of
Madhya Pradesh by the Khasgi Trust. The learned Single Judge could not have
preempted the State of Madhya Pradesh from taking action in the matter in
respect of the properties over which the State of Madhya Pradesh is having
exclusive title. The judgment delivered by the learned Single Judge reflects
that the learned Single Judge has drafted a new trust deed altogether and he
has gone to the extent in setting aside the orders passed by the Collector and
Registrar, Public Trust.
113\. The order passed by the Collector reflects that the Collector was
justified in passing an order to protect the interest of the State of Madhya
Pradesh as the Trust was on a selling spree of the Trust properties for
peanuts without there being any authority to sell the Trust properties.
Various technical grounds have been raised by the learned senior counsel
arguing the matter in respect of power and jurisdiction of the Collector.
114\. This Court will not enter into technicalities especially when it is
crystal clear that it is the State of Madhya Pradesh, which is the titleholder
of all Khasgi Trust properties.
115\. The issue in respect of covenant signed by the Ruler (Maharaja of
Holkar) was subjected to judicial scrutiny before the Hon'ble Supreme Court in
the case of The State of Madhya Pradesh v/s Usha Devi reported in (2015) 8 SCC
672 and paragraphs - 24 to 40 of the aforesaid judgments reads as under:-
> 24\. Before adverting to the various arguments advanced by the learned
> counsel on both side and Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014 & Writ Petition
> No.11234/2020  -85- the findings recorded by the Courts below, we would deem
> it appropriate to extract Article 363 of the Constitution of India, which
> reads as under:
> 363\. Bar to interference by courts in disputes arising out of certain
> treaties, agreements, etc.: (1) Notwithstanding anything in this
> Constitution but subject to the provisions of Article 143, neither the
> Supreme Court nor any other court shall have jurisdiction in any dispute
> arising out of any provision of a treaty, agreement, Covenant, engagement,
> sanad or other similar instrument which was entered into or executed before
> the commencement of this Constitution by any Ruler of an Indian State and to
> which the Government was a party and which has or has been continued in
> operation after such commencement, or in any dispute in respect of any right
> accruing under or any liability or obligation arising out of any of the
> provisions of this Constitution relating to any such treaty, agreement,
> Covenant, engagement, sanad or other similar instrument.
> A plain reading of Clause (1) of Article 363 emphatically gives the
> impression that no Court in this country, including this Court shall have
> jurisdiction to deal with any dispute arising out of treaties, agreements
> etc., entered into between the Rulers of erstwhile Indian States and the
> Government of India.
25\. Coming to the facts of the present case, on 16-06-1948 through the
Covenant that is exhibit P- 79 Maharaja of Holkar along with other Princely
States agreed to merge with the dominion of India. According to Article 12 of
the Covenant, the Ruler can enjoy the rights over his personal properties
which are included in the Covenant for which purpose a list of his personal
properties was required to be submitted to the Government. The said Article
reads thus:
> (1) The Ruler of each Covenanting State shall be entitled to the full
> ownership, use and enjoyment of all private properties (as distinct from
> State properties) belonging to him on the date of his making over the
> administration of that State to the Raj Pramukh.
> (2) He shall furnish to the Raj Pramukh before the first day of August, 1948
> an inventory of all immovable properties, securities and cash balance held
> by him as such private property.
> (3) If any dispute arises as to whether any item of property is the private
> property of the Ruler or State property, it shall be referred to Writ Appeal
> Nos.92/2014, 135/2014 & Writ Petition No.11234/2020  -86- such person as the
> Government of India may nominate in consultation with the Raj Pramukh and
> the decision of that person shall be final and binding on all parties
> concerned. ...No such dispute shall be referable after the first day of
> July, 1949.
26\. As per article 12(2) of the Covenant, the Maharaja of Holkar has
furnished the details of the properties under different Heads. He furnished
the details under the Heads as immovable properties comprising of the
properties inside the State, outside the State, miscellaneous and at clause 14
"certain properties under the administrative control of the Household
Department of the Holkar State except such of the afore mentioned property
with the Household Department as had already been transferred to the two guest
houses at Indore viz the ones situated in the building which was known as the
Indore hostel and the other in Rajender Bhavan on the Bombay-Agra road".
27\. The Suit scheduled properties which are in possession of the plaintiff
finds no mention in the entire list of properties, but the plaintiff derives
his title to the property from Clause 14 of the list of properties which
speaks about all properties under the control of the Household Department. The
plaintiff to substantiate her case that the Suit schedule properties are
private properties is relying upon clause 14 of the list of properties, the
taxes paid by her and her father in respect of these properties, the
communication dated 07-05-1948 and letter dated 30-01- 1956 wherein the Suit
scheduled properties were retransferred to the Household Department. Though
lot of evidence was adduced on behalf of the plaintiff about paying taxes to
substantiate her case that the Suit scheduled properties are the private
properties of the Ruler, the core issue that requires to be adjudicated is
whether it is the personal property of the Ruler or the property was belonging
to the State. To give any finding with regard to the ownership of the property
invariably we have to look at the Covenant for the reason the Covenant is the
source of title for the plaintiff. At any stretch of imagination, we cannot
agree with the finding of the appellate Court that the right of the plaintiff
is a pre- existing right. By all means the right of the plaintiff flows from
the Covenant by virtue of which the plaintiff claims title over these
properties, which according to her are declared as private properties of the
Ruler.
28\. A bare perusal of Article 363 and the relief sought by the plaintiff in
the Suit in unequivocal Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014 & Writ Petition
No.11234/2020  -87- terms attracts the bar contained in Article 363 of the
Constitution of India. The Court below distinguished the judgment in Draupadi
Devi's case that it is not applicable to the facts of the present case. We are
of the considered opinion that the rule of law laid down in that case applies
to the case on hand. This Court in the case of Draupadi Devi held:
> 44\. "... ...The Covenant is a political document resulting from an act of
> State. Once the Government of India decides to take over all the properties
> of the Ruler, except the properties which it recognises as private
> properties, there is no question of implied recognition of any property as
> private property. On the other hand, this clause of the Covenant merely
> means that, if the Ruler of the Covenanting State claimed property to be his
> private property and the Government of India did not agree, it was open to
> the Ruler to have this issue decided in the manner contemplated by clause
> (3). Clause (3) of Article XII does not mean that the Government was obliged
> to refer to the dispute upon its failure to recognise it as private
> property. Secondly, the dispute as to whether a particular property was or
> was not recognised as private property of the Ruler was itself a dispute
> arising out of the terms of the Covenant and, therefore, not adjudicable by
> municipal courts as being beyond the jurisdiction of the municipal courts by
> reason of Article 363 of the Constitution".
29\. The above ratio laid down by this Court makes one to understand that
prior to Covenant, the ownership of all the properties remain vested with the
Ruler, but once the Covenant is entered into, the Government takes over all
the properties except those which the Government recognises as private
properties of the Ruler. This court had categorically held that there cannot
be any implied recognition of the property as private property at any later
stages when an opportunity had already been granted to raise this issue in
terms of clause (3) of Article 12 before defined period. In the case on hand
also, similar clause existed where a dispute to recognise a property as
private property could be raised only before 1st July, 1949. A dispute whether
a property was recognised as private property or not was held to be a dispute
arising out of the terms of Covenant, thereby barring the Courts to adjudicate
the same in view of Article 363 of Constitution.
30\. Also in Madhav Rao Jivaji Rao Scindia (supra), this Court while
interpreting Article 363 of the Constitution, observed that a dispute relating
to Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014 & Writ Petition No.11234/2020  -88- the
enforcement, interpretation or breach of any treaty etc., is barred from the
Courts' jurisdiction. The bar comes into play only when the dispute is arising
out of the provisions of a treaty, Covenant etc., as in the present case. This
Court held that Article 363 has two parts. The first part relates to disputes
arising out of Agreements and Covenants etc. The jurisdiction of this Court as
well as of other Courts is clearly barred in respect of disputes falling
within that part. Then comes the second part of Article 363 which refers to
disputes in respect of any right accruing under or any liability or obligation
arising out of any of the provisions of the Constitution relating to any
agreement, Covenant etc. It was specifically mentioned that right as mentioned
in Article 363 signifies property.
31\. In yet another case, Karan Singh (Dr.) vs. State of J&K, (2004) 5 SCC
698, while examining the applicability of Article 363 of the Constitution to
the disputes arising out of a treaty, Covenant etc., this Court observed that
all Courts including the Supreme Court is barred to determine any right
arising out of a Covenant . The correspondence exchanged between the Ruler and
the Government would amount to agreement within the meaning of Article 363.
32\. In view of our above discussion and as settled by this Court in the above
judgments, Covenant was an act of State and any dispute arising out of its
terms cannot form the subject matter in any Court including the Supreme Court,
and there cannot be any implied recognition of the property as private
property at any later stages when an opportunity had already been granted to
raise issue in terms of clause 3 of Article 12 before defined period; above
all, the properties do not find place in the Covenant. The plaintiff is trying
to interpret the Covenant that all properties which are in the custody of the
Household Department are the personal properties of the Ruler. We feel that
such interpretation and implied recognition is impermissible as held by this
Court in Draupadi Devi. Hence the Court below erred in entertaining the Suit
without properly taking into consideration the judgments and the proposition
of law laid down by this Court in catena of cases. Hence we are of the view
that the relief in the Suit falls within the ambit of Article 363 of the
Constitution of India and the Suit is not maintainable. Accordingly first
issue is answered in favour of the appellant/State and against
respondent/plaintiff.
Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014 & Writ Petition No.11234/2020  -89-
33\. Once we have given our finding on the maintainability of the Suit, we
need not to go into the other issues. But in view of the alternative argument
advanced by the counsel, we are of the view that we should throw some light on
those issues. It is the finding of the Trial Court that the lands were
retransferred to the Holkar State in the year 1951, and re- transferring is
without any authority and it is bad. The Trial Court held that though it is
the specific case of the plaintiff that they are paying Tauzi, there is no
evidence to show that they have paid Tauzi prior to 1951 and the
correspondence of the plaintiff and her father shows that the Suit scheduled
properties were not included in item no 14 of the list of properties and
further held that Suit scheduled properties were allotted to the Forest
Department. First coming to the issue of transfer of land to Forest
Department, it is settled law that parties are governed by their pleadings and
the burden lies on the person who pleads to prove and further plaintiff has to
succeed basing on the strengths of his case and cannot depend upon the
weakness of the defendant's case. The State having alleged several things, has
failed to mark any document to show that the properties were transferred to
the Forest Department and the retransfer in the year 1951 was without any
authority of law. Though the State has filed certain documents before us, but
as they are not part of the evidence, we are not inclined to look at those
documents.
34\. The appellant State as defendant in the Suit has marked two documents.
While remanding the appeals preferred by the defendant and the plaintiff, the
appellate Court gave a categorical finding that the Trial Court should not
permit any of the parties to adduce further evidence. The remand order of the
appellate Court was not questioned by the State. After the remand, the Suit
was dismissed by the Trial Court wherein a finding was recorded that no
evidence is produced before the Court to show that the property was
transferred to the Forest Department. This finding has become final as no
cross appeal is preferred by the appellant/State. Hence we are not inclined to
look into these documents.
35\. The plaintiff by marking the voluminous documentary evidence and by
examining PW 5 and PW 7 established that they were in continuous possession of
property till 1960, except for a short period when the Suit scheduled
properties were given to the Army Department. Tauzi was also paid Writ Appeal
Nos.92/2014, 135/2014 & Writ Petition No.11234/2020  -90- by Maharaja and
later by the plaintiff. The finding of the Trial Court in this regard that the
plaintiff has failed to adduce any evidence to show that Tauzi was paid prior
to 1951, is contrary to the material on record. In spite of all these factors
that the Maharaja and the plaintiff were in continuous possession of property
and paid Tauzi for the properties, however long the plaintiff's possession may
be and paying of the taxes will not give her any right seeking declaration of
ownership when these properties are part of a Covenant and calls for an
interpretation of the Covenant. In addition to this, the plaintiff wrote a
letter to the Additional Chief Secretary, Government General, Administrative
Department, Bhopal, dated 1st October 1962, wherein she requested for a
declaration of the Suit scheduled properties as the private properties as
declared by the Maharaja of Holkar which clearly shows that the whole cause of
action and the reliefs sought for in the Suit are based on the Covenant and
the rights flown from the Covenant.
36\. We are not inclined to go into the discussion whether the re-transfer of
land is without authority or not, whether these properties are under the
control of Household Department as it amounts to deciding the dispute arising
out of the Covenant, which is barred under Article 363 of the Constitution of
India. Even assuming for a minute that these properties are under the control
of the Household Department, still the plaintiff cannot succeed for the reason
that Maharaja of Holkar in the list of properties furnished has failed to
mention these properties specifically, and interpretation of Covenant is not
permissible as per settled law.
37\. The other finding which we are not able to accept is that the Maharaja is
the owner as well as the tenant of the property. All the rights whichever
pleaded by the plaintiff are the rights flown only from the Covenant. As
provided under clause 12(1) of Covenant, admittedly by the letter dated 29-9-
1962 the respondent/plaintiff claimed the title by way of Covenant and not by
any such tenancy rights. Hence, the respondent plaintiff cannot claim any
right of tenancy over the Suit schedule properties and such plea is
misconceived and she is estopped from raising such a plea.
38\. Now we would like to deal with the other issue i.e., applicability of
Section 158(2) of the Madhya Pradesh Land Revenue Code, 1959. The said Section
came into force with retrospective effect from October 2, 1959 and reads thus:
> Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014 & Writ Petition No.11234/2020  -91-
> 158(2): A Ruler of an Indian State forming part of the State of Madhya
> Pradesh who at the time of coming into force of this Code, was holding land
> or was entitled to hold land as such Ruler by virtue of the Covenant or
> agreement entered into by him before the commencement of the Constitution,
> shall, as from the date of coming into force of this Code, be a Bhumiswami
> of such land under the Code and shall be subject to all the rights and
> liabilities conferred and imposed upon a Bhumiswami by or under this Code.
> As per Section 158(2) in order to confer the rights of Bhumiswami a Ruler
> should be holding land or he should have been entitled to hold land as such
> Ruler by virtue of a Covenant or agreement entered into by him.
> 39\. The plaintiff/respondent cannot seek the status of Bhumiswami
> independent of the Covenant because the rights under Section 158(2) arise
> out of the Covenant itself. The source to hold the land arises by virtue of
> a Covenant. When the right so claimed by way of Covenant is disputed and the
> relief of settling these disputes is barred under Article 363 of the
> Constitution, in our considered view, one cannot claim to be "Bhumiswami"
> under Section 158(2) of the Madhya Pradesh Land Revenue Code, independent of
> the Covenant. Accordingly, this issue is held in favour of appellant/State
> and against the respondent/plaintiff. Hence we are of the considered opinion
> that the Suit filed by the plaintiff for declaration and injunction is
> barred under Article 363 of the Constitution of India and the plaintiff is
> not entitled for any relief under Section 158(2) of the Madhya Pradesh Land
> Revenue Code claiming the rights of Bhumiswami.
> 40\. For all the foregoing reasons, we allow these appeals by setting adie
> the impugned judgments of the High Court and consequently the suit is
> dismissed. However, there shall be no order as to consts."
In light of the aforesaid judgment delivered by the Hon'ble Supreme Court, it
is crystal clear that as per the stipulation in the covenant concerned falling
under Article 326, Ruler (Maharaja Holkar) furnished specific entries of
immovable properties falling under administrative control of household
department of Holkar State. The property, which was not included in that
inventory and which also did Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014 & Writ Petition
No.11234/2020  -92- not form part of the private property of the Ruler, vested
in the State Government and after merger, keeping in view Article 363, the
Ruler cannot file a civil suit or even approach this Court claiming title of
the property that it was the property not included in the personal property of
the Ruler, there cannot be any claim of implied recognition of private
property of Ruler at a later stage.
116\. In the present case also, the Trust's properties are certainly not at
all private properties of the Ruler, the property is vested in the State of
Madhya Pradesh and it is the State of Madhya Pradesh, which is the titleholder
of the properties and by no stretch of imagination, the learned Single Judge
could have decided the writ petition there being a specific bar under Article
363 of the Constitution of India.
117\. Undisputedly, the title in respect of Khasgi properties lies with the
State of Madhya Pradesh and once the State of Madhya Pradesh is the
titleholder, the learned Single Judge has erred in law and facts in delivering
the judgment and quashing the order of the Collector by which he has simply
directed the authorities to enter the name of State of Madhya Pradesh in the
revenue record in respect of Khasgi Trust properties. Illegal sales could not
have been ignored by the learned Single Judge as he has observed that transfer
prior to the judgment will not be looked into.
118\. This Court has carefully gone through the judgment relied upon by
learned counsel for the parties in depth. The property in question on account
of covenant signed at the time of merger was certainly not at all private
properties of Maharaja. Undisputedly the property vested in the State of Writ
Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014 & Writ Petition No.11234/2020  -93- Madhya Bharat
and after enactment of Madhya Pradash Reorganization Act and creation of
Madhya Pradesh being the successor State, the property vested in the State of
Madhya Pradesh. The Collector has not at all decided the issue of title. The
Collector by an order dated 05.11.2012, as the property was the exclusive
property of the State of Madhya Pradesh, has passed an order in respect of
property of the State of Madhya Pradesh. The Trust, in case, it was claiming
title of the property in question, should have file the civil suit or should
have availed any other remedy available under the law. The property, as per
the covenant after creation of Madhya Bharat State and State of Madhya
Pradesh, became the property of the State Government, and therefore, the
question of granting an opportunity of hearing to the trustees does not arise.
The record reveals that a proper notice was issued and the Trust did file a
reply before the Collector in the matter, hence, violation of principles of
natural justice does not arise.
119\. It has been vehemently argued that the Chief Secretary of the State of
Madhya Pradesh has written a letter dated 13.06.1969 permitting the Trust to
go ahead with the sale of the property, and therefore, the State Government is
estopped from taking a contrary stand in the matter that there was no
permission of the State in respect of sale of the property.
120\. The letter dated 13.06.1969 was merely a D.O. letter and had no legal
sanctity as such. From a bare perusal of the subject document it is apparent
that on top right hand side corner the serial number has been mentioned as,
'DO No. 193/CS/69'. The format of the letter is also unmistakably Writ Appeal
Nos.92/2014, 135/2014 & Writ Petition No.11234/2020  -94- that of a DO Letter.
Moreover, the subject letter nowhere mentions that the government has accorded
sanction for transfer of the Trust Property. The relevant portion of the
letter states that- "......the question of according any sanction for the
intended transfer by sale of any item of Trust Property does not arise." A
careful examination of the aforesaid content suggests that Shri M P
Shrivastava clearly mentioned that there was no question of according sanction
for transfer of Trust Property.
121\. Shri M P Shrivastava had no authority to give sanction for alienation of
government property. The property of government could not be given away by a
DO letter without a cabinet decision. Furthermore, Shri M.P Shrivastava was
one of the trustees, thus he was not in a position to accord any sanction to
the Trust on behalf of the State Government.
122\. As per the Rules of Business of the Executive Government of Madhya
Pradesh, framed in exercise of the powers under clauses (2) and (3) of Article
166 of the Constitution of India, proposals involving the alienation either
temporary or permanent, by way of sale, grant or lease of Government property
exceeding Rs. 10 lac in value shall have to be placed before the Council of
Ministers and dealt with only in accordance with the procedure laid down in
supplementary instruction 18 under rule 13. No such procedure was ever
followed for alienation of the property. Obviously the subject letter does not
amount to a sanction of the Council of Ministers as mentioned above. Relevant
portion of the rules is reproduced below:
> "The following cases shall be brought before the Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014,
> 135/2014 & Writ Petition No.11234/2020  -95- Council, subject to the proviso
> that if the Chief Minister considers any case to be so urgent as to
> necessitate the immediate issue of orders, he may direct the issue of orders
> at once, and when orders have been issued, the papers shall, without
> avoidable delay, be circulated and brought, before a meeting of the Council
> in accordance with the procedure laid down in supplementary instruction 18
> under rule 13:-
> (i)...
> (ii)...
> (vi)(a) Proposals involving alienation either temporary or permanent, by way
> of sale, grant or lease of Government property exceeding Rs. 10 lac in
> value, but such cases shall not be Council cases if such alienation is by
> way of auction or under the normal rules of Government of under any scheme
> approved by Government."
123\. The subject letter was not issued by or in the name of the Governor of
Madhya Pradesh. The decision to accord sanction to alienate government
property is a policy decision which needs to be taken by the government and
the same cannot be replaced by a DO Letter of an officer of the State
Government.
124\. The subject letter refers to the opinion of the law department however
the same was not on record and there is no mention regarding the content of
such opinion.
125\. This aspect has been pleaded in para No. 04 of the grounds in the appeal
memo by the appellant. The effect of the subject letter was also mentioned in
the synopsis dated 01.09.2020 submitted by the appellants before this Hon'ble
Court on 05.09.2020.
126\. More so, the orders of the State Govt. are always issued in the name and
on behalf of Hon'ble Governor it is the statutory requirement Under Article
166(i) of the Constitution of India and unless the order is issued in the name
and on behalf of the Hon'ble Governor it cannot be considered to be the
decision of a State Govt. Following are Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014 &
Writ Petition No.11234/2020  -96- the citations :
> Jaipur Development Authority Vs. Vijay Kumar Data -(2011) 12 SCC 1994 :-
> "49. It is trite to say that all executive actions of the Government of
> India and the Government of a State are required to be taken in the name of
> the President or the Governor of the State concerned, as the case may be
> (Articles 77(1) and 166(1). Orders and other instruments made and executed
> in the name of the President or the Governor of a State, as the case may be,
> are required to be authenticated in such manner as may be specified in the
> rules to be made by the President or the Governor, as the case may be
> (Articles 77(2) and 166(2).
> 53\. It is us clear that unless an order is expressed is the name of the
> President or the Governor and is authenticated is the manner prescribed by
> the rules, the same cannot be treated as an order made on behalf of the
> Government. A reading of the Letter dated 6.12.2001 shows that it was
> neither expressed in the name of the Governor nor was it authenticated in
> the manner prescribed by the rules. That letter merely speaks of the
> discussion made by the Committee and the decision taken by it. By no stretch
> of imagination the same can be treated as a policy decision of the
> Government within the meaning of Article 166 of the Constitution." In the
> case of Lallaram Vs. Jaipur Development Authority -(2016) 11 SCC 31 :-
> "It has been observed that the compliance of article 166 is directory in
> nature meaning that if substantial compliance is present than the order
> issued would not be a nullity. However, in the present case the file has not
> being sent to the concerning Minister nor to the Governor and thus even
> substantial compliance is not there."
In light of the aforesaid, by no stretch of imagination, it can be said that
letter dated 13.06.1969 is the permission granted by the State Government or
it was a decision communicated by the State Government.
127\. The so called letter dated 13.06.1969 is a D.O. letter and any decision
as per the Business Allocation Rules of the State of Madhya Pradesh in respect
of a sale of property has to be issued in the name of the Governor of the
State of Madhya Pradesh. The Chief, Secretary is nobody to write a Writ Appeal
Nos.92/2014, 135/2014 & Writ Petition No.11234/2020  -97- letter in respect of
property of the State of Madhya Pradesh as has been done in the present case.
128\. Another shocking aspect of the case is that the then Chief Secretary was
also one of the trustees and he has acted as a Judge in his own cause, and
therefore, the arguments canvassed by learned counsel for the Trust and the
trustees do not help them in any manner.
129\. The facts of the case make it very clear that the properties, though
managed by the Trust, had in fact vested in the State Government upon merger
and do not form part of property settled with the outgoing proprietor / Holkar
State, and therefore, as the property was the property of the State of Mahdya
Pradesh it was a public trust, permission should have been obtained from the
Registrar, Public Trust while disposing of the property or from the State of
Madhya Pradesh.
130\. So far as opportunity of hearing to Union of India is concerned, Shri
Manoj Manav, learned counsel has appeared in the matter and has argued at
length stating categorically that the property exclusively belongs to State of
Madhya of Madhya Pradesh and does not belong to the Ruler or to the Trust. He
has stated that the Trust was constituted only to manage the affairs of the
Trust and the Trust, at no point of time, was the titleholder of the property.
He has stated that the State Government was justified in taking action in the
matter and same has been done in accordance with law.
131\. In the case of Chairman Madappa (supra), it has certainly been held that
power to manage Trust properties inherently includes the power to sale only in
case the Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014 & Writ Petition No.11234/2020  -98-
properties are sold for the objective of the Trust.
132\. In the present case, the properties have not been sold for objective of
the Trust, they have sold with an oblique and ulterior motive. In case, there
was insufficiency of fund in managing the affairs of the Trust, in all
fairness, a request should have been made to the State of Madhya Pradesh to
provide grant or the Trust should have approach this Court or should have
availed other remedy for issuance of a direction to the State of Madhya
Pradesh to provide funds. The inaction on the part of the Trust in respect of
the aforesaid issue speaks volume about the conduct of the trustees and about
their oblique and ulterior motive.
133\. Much has been argued in respect of so called permission of the State
Government to proceed ahead with the sale of the properties i.e., letter dated
13.06.1969 of the Chief Secretary as well as the subsequent amendment in the
trust deed which provides for a clause to sell the property.
134\. In the present case a fraud has taken place and the note-sheet of the
Chief Secretary has not no value [see: The State of Bihar v/s Kripalu Shankar
reported in AIR 1987 SC 1554].
It is a settled proposition of law that that fraud vitiates everything [see:
(1991) 1 SCC 354, AIR 1994 SC 853 & (1996) 5 SCC 550].
Fraud vitiates every solemn proceedings and no right can be claimed by a
fraudster on the ground of technicalities [see: (2012) 11 SCC 574, (2018) 1
SCC 656 & (2019) 14 SCC 449].
135\. This Court has not reproduced the law laid down in the aforesaid cases,
however, is reproducing certain Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014 & Writ
Petition No.11234/2020  -99- paragraphs only in respect of the last judgment
on the subject delivered in the case of Satluj Jal Vidyut Nigam v/s Taj Kumar
Rajinder Singh reported in (2019) 14 SCC 449. Paragraphs - 65 to 81 of the
aforesaid judgment read as under:-
> 65\. The question in the instant case is as to whether an incumbent can be
> permitted to play blatant fraud time and again and court has to be silent
> spectator under the guise of label of the various legal proceedings at
> different stages by taking different untenable stands whether compensation
> can be claimed several times as done in the instant case and its effect.
> Before the land acquisition had been commenced in 1987, the land more than
> 1000 bighas had been declared a surplus in ceiling case and compensation
> collected, which indeed disputed land at Jhakari, it would be a perpetuating
> fraud in case such a person is permitted to claim compensation for same very
> land. Fraud vitiates the solemn proceedings; such plea can be set up even in
> collateral proceedings. The label on the petition is not much material and
> this Court has already permitted the plea of fraud to be raised. Moreover,
> Appeal arising out of 72 awards is still pending in the High Court in which
> Reference Court has declined compensation on the aforesaid ground.
> 66\. Reliance has also been placed on the observations made in Meher Rusi
> Dalal v. Union of India, (2004) 7 SCC 362, in which this Court has dealt
> with the issue of apportionment of compensation for which claim was raised
> by the Union of India, not in the capacity of the owner but as a protected
> tenant. The claim of tenancy was not put forth before the LAO, though
> represented in the acquisition proceedings. This Court observed that in such
> a case it could reasonably be inferred that no right was being claimed and
> it ought to have been made before the LAO if it had any such claim in
> respect of preexisting right. The LAO was not under a duty to make an
> enquiry. The claim of tenancy at the belated stage was an afterthought to
> frustrate the payment. The decision has no application to the instant case
> as the LAO in the awards passed, noted the factum of ceiling proceedings as
> such the effects of the same can always be considered.
67\. In Ahad Brothers v. State of M.P., (2005) 1 SCC 545, this Court observed
that question of the title of the State over the acquired land, cannot be
decided under Section 18 of Land Acquisition Act, Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014,
135/2014 & Writ Petition No.11234/2020  -100- 1894\. This Court considered
that when an award has been passed and the appellant was recorded as owner in
the revenue papers, he was entitled to receive compensation. There is no
dispute in the aforesaid proposition, however, in the instant case facts are
different and a person cannot be permitted to receive the compensation of
vested land in State under the Abolition Act and when the land had been
declared surplus and compensation paid on wrong entry continued. The same
wrong entry could not have been permitted to be utilised for award of
compensation to a person under the LA Act. In the instant case, there had been
earlier proceedings which makes it clear that Rajinder Singh was not entitled
to claim compensation under the LA Act. It is apparent that there was no
subsisting right, title or interest left with Rajinder Singh or his LRs.,
thus, they could not be permitted to obtain the compensation.
68\. Fraud vitiates every solemn proceeding and no right can be claimed by a
fraudster on the ground of technicalities. On behalf of appellants, reliance
has been placed on the definition of fraud as defined in the Black's Law
Dictionary, which is as under:
> "Fraud means: (1) A knowing misrepresentation of the truth or concealment of
> a material fact to induce another to act to his or her detriment. Fraud is
> usually a tort, but in some cases (esp. when the conduct is willful) it may
> be a crime. (2) A misrepresentation made recklessly without belief in its
> truth to induce another person to act. (3) A tort arising from a knowing
> misrepresentation, concealment of material fact, or reckless
> misrepresentation made to induce another to act to his or her detriment. (4)
> Unconscionable dealing; esp., in contract law, the unconscientious use of
> the power arising out of the parties' relative positions and resulting in an
> unconscionable bargain."
69\. Halsbury's Law of England has defined fraud as follows:
> "Whenever a person makes a false statement which he does not actually and
> honestly believe to be true, for purpose of civil liability, the statement
> is as fraudulent as if he had stated that which he did know to be true, or
> know or believed to be false. Proof of absence of actual and honest belief
> is all that is necessary to satisfy the requirement of the law, whether the
> representation has been made recklessly or deliberately, indifference or
> reckless on the part of the representor as the truth or falsity of the
> representation affords merely an instance of absence of such a belief."
70\. In KERR on the Law of Fraud and Mistake, fraud has been defined thus:
> "It is not easy to give a definition of Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014 &
> Writ Petition No.11234/2020  -101- what constitutes fraud in the extensive
> significance in which that term is understood by Civil Courts of Justice.
> The Courts have always avoided hampering themselves by defining or laying
> down as a general proposition what shall be held to constitute fraud. Fraud
> is infinite in variety... Courts have always declined to define it, ...
> reserving to themselves the liberty to deal with it under whatever form it
> may present itself. Fraud ... may be said to include property all acts,
> omissions, and concealments which involve a breach of legal or equitable
> duty, trust or confidence, justly reposed, and are injurious to another, or
> by which an undue or unconscientious advantage is taken of another.
Al surprise, trick, cunning, dissembling and other unfair way that is used to
cheat anyone is considered as fraud. Fraud in all cases implies a willful act
on the part of anyone, whereby another is sought to be deprived, by illegal or
inequitable means, of what he is entitled too."
71\. In Ram Chandra Singh v. Savitri Devi, (2003) 8 SCC 319, wherein it was
observed that fraud vitiates every solemn act. Fraud and justice never dwell
together and it cannot be perpetuated or saved by the application of any
equitable doctrine including resjudicata. This Court observed as under: "15.
Commission of fraud on court and suppression of material facts are the core
issues involved in these matters. Fraud, as is wellknown, vitiates every
solemn act. Fraud and justice never dwell together.
16\. Fraud is a conduct either by letter or words, which induces the other
person, or authority to take a definite determinative stand as a response to
the conduct of former either by word or letter.
17\. It is also well settled that misrepresentation itself amounts to fraud.
Indeed, innocent misrepresentation may also give reason to claim relief
against fraud.
18\. A fraudulent misrepresentation is called deceit and consists in leading a
man into damage by willfully or recklessly causing him to believe and act on
falsehood. It is a fraud in law if a party makes representations which he
knows to be false, and injury ensues therefrom although the motive from which
the representations proceeded may not have been bad.
23\. An act of fraud on court is always viewed seriously. A collusion or
conspiracy with a view to deprive the rights of the others in relation to a
property would render the transaction void ab initio. Fraud and deception
aresynonymous.
Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014 & Writ Petition No.11234/2020  -102- *** ***
***
25\. Although in a given case a deception may not amount to fraud, fraud is
anathema to all equitable principles and any affair tainted with fraud cannot
be perpetuated or saved by the application of any equitable doctrine including
resjudicata." (emphasis supplied)
72\. In Madhukar Sadbha Shivarkar v. State of Maharashtra, (2015) 6 SCC 557,
this Court observed that fraud had been played by showing the records and the
orders obtained unlawfully by the declarant, would be a nullity in the eye of
law though such orders have attained finality. Following observations were
made:
"27. The said order is passed by the State Government only to enquire into the
landholding records with a view to find out as to whether original land
revenue records have been destroyed and fabricated to substantiate their
unjustifiable claim by playing fraud upon the Tehsildar and appellate
authorities to obtain the orders unlawfully in their favour by showing that
there is no surplus land with the Company and its shareholders as the valid
subleases are made and they are accepted by them in the proceedings Under
Section 21 of the Act, on the basis of the alleged false declarations filed by
the shareholders and sublessees Under Section 6 of the Act. The plea urged on
behalf of the State Government and the defacto complainantsowners, at whose
instance the orders are passed by the State Government on the alleged ground
of fraud played by the declarants upon the Tehsildar and appellate authorities
to get the illegal orders obtained by them to come out from the clutches of
the land ceiling provisions of the Act by creating the revenue records, which
is the fraudulent act on their part which unravels everything and therefore,
the question of limitation under the provisions to exercise power by the State
Government does not arise at all. For this purpose, the Deputy Commissioner of
Pune Division was appointed as the Enquiry Officer to hold such an enquiry to
enquire into the matter and submit his report for consideration of the
Government to take further action in the matter. The legal contentions urged
by Mr. Naphade, in justification of the impugned judgment and order prima
facie at this stage, we are satisfied that the allegation of fraud in relation
to getting the land holdings of the villages referred to supra by the
declarants on the alleged ground of destroying original revenue records and
Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014 & Writ Petition No.11234/2020  -103-
fabricating revenue records to show that there are 384 subleases of the land
involved in the proceedings to retain the surplus land illegally as alleged,
to the extent of more than 3000 acres of land and the orders are obtained
unlawfully by the declarants in the land ceiling limits will be nullity in the
eye of law though such orders have attained finality, if it is found in the
enquiry by the Enquiry Officer that they are tainted with fraud, the same can
be interfered with by the State Government and its officers to pass
appropriate orders. The landowners are also aggrieved parties to agitate their
rights to get the orders which are obtained by the declarants as they are
vitiated in law on account of nullity is the tenable submission and the same
is well founded and therefore, we accept the submission to justify the
impugned judgment and order of the Division Bench of the High Court."
(emphasis supplied)
73\. In Jai Narain Parasrampuria v. Pushpa Devi Saraf, (2006) 7 SCC 756, this
Court observed that fraud vitiates every solemn act. Any order or decree
obtained by practicing fraud is a nullity. This Court held as under:
"55 It is now well settled that fraud vitiated all solemn act. Any order or
decree obtained by practicing fraud is a nullity. [See ( 1) Ram Chandra Singh
v. Savitri Devi and Ors., (2003) 8 SCC 319 followed in (2) Vice Chairman,
Kendriya Vidyalaya Sangathan, and Anr. v. Girdhari Lal Yadav, (2004) 6 SCC
325; (3) State of A.P. and Anr. v. T. Suryachandra Rao, (2005) 6 SCC 149; (4)
Ishwar Dutt v. Land Acquisition Collector and Anr., (2005) 7 SCC 190; (5)
Lillykutty v. Scrutiny Committee, SC & ST Ors., (2005) 8 SCC 283; (6) Chief
Engineer, M.S.E.B. and Anr. v. Suresh Raghunath Bhokare, (2005) 10 SCC 465;
(7) Smt. Satya v. Shri Teja Singh, (1975) 1 SCC 120; (8) Mahboob Sahab v.
Sayed Ismail, (1995) 3 SCC 693; and (9) Asharfi Lal v. Koili, (1995) 4 SCC
163.]" (emphasis supplied)
74\. In State of A.P. v. T. Suryachandra Rao, (2005) 6 SCC 149, it was
observed that where land which was offered for surrender had already been
acquired by the State and the same had vested in it. It was held that merely
because an enquiry was made, the Tribunal was not divested of the power to
correct the error when the respondent had clearly committed a fraud. Following
observations were made:
"7. The order of the High Court is clearly erroneous. There is no dispute that
the land which was offered for surrender by the respondent had already been
acquired by the Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014 & Writ Petition
No.11234/2020  -104- State and the same had vested in it. This was clearly a
case of fraud. Merely because an enquiry was made, Tribunal was not divested
of the power to correct the error when the respondent had clearly committed a
fraud.
8\. By "fraud" is meant an intention to deceive; whether it is from any
expectation of advantage to the party himself or from the ill will towards the
other is immaterial. The expression "fraud" involves two elements, deceit, and
injury to the person deceived. The injury is something other than economic
loss, that is, deprivation of property, whether movable or immovable or of
money and it will include and any harm whatever caused to any person in body,
mind, reputation or such others. In short, it is a noneconomic or nonpecuniary
loss. A benefit or advantage to the deceiver, will almost always call loss or
detriment to the deceived. Even in those rare cases where there is a benefit
or advantage to the deceiver, but no corresponding loss to the deceived, the
second condition is satisfied. [See Dr. Vimla v. Delhi Administration, 1963
Supp (2) SCR 585 and Indian Bank v. Satyam Febres (India) Pvt. Ltd., (1996) 5
SCC 550] 9. A "fraud" is an act of deliberate deception with the design of
securing something by taking unfair advantage of another. It is a deception in
order to gain by another's loss. It is a cheating intended to get an
advantage. (See S.P. Changalvaraya Naidu v. Jagannath, (1994) 1 SCC 1.) 10.
"Fraud" as is well known vitiates every solemn act. Fraud and justice never
dwell together. Fraud is a conduct either by letter or words, which includes
the other person or authority to take a definite determinative stand as a
response to the conduct of the former either by words or letter. It is also
well settled that misrepresentation itself amounts to fraud. Indeed, innocent
misrepresentation may also give reason to claim relief against fraud. A
fraudulent misrepresentation is called deceit and consists in leading a man
into damage by willfully or recklessly causing him to believe and act on
falsehood. It is a fraud in law if a party makes representations, which he
knows to be false, and injury enures therefrom although the motive from which
the representations proceeded may not have been bad. An act of fraud on court
is always viewed seriously. A collusion or conspiracy with a view to deprive
the rights of the others in relation to a property would render the
transaction void ab initio. Fraud and deception are synonymous. Although in a
given case a deception may not amount to fraud, fraud is anathema to all
equitable Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014 & Writ Petition No.11234/2020
-105- principles and any affair tainted with fraud cannot be perpetuated or
saved by the application of any equitable doctrine including res judicata.
(See Ram Chandra Singh v. Savitri Devi and Ors., (2003) 8 SCC 319.) *** ***
***
13\. This aspect of the matter has been considered recently by this Court in
Roshan Deen v. Preeti Lal, (2002) 1 SCC 100, Ram Preeti Yadav v. U.P. Board of
High School and Intermediate Education, (2003) 8 SCC 311, Ram Chandra Singh v.
Savitri Devi, (2003) 8 SCC 319 and Ashok Leyland Ltd. v. State of T.N. and
Anr., (2004) 3 SCC 1.
14\. Suppression of a material document would also amount to a fraud on the
court, (see Gowrishankar v. Joshi Amba Shankar 54 Family Trust, (1996) 3 SCC
310 and S.P.
Chengalvaraya Naidu v. Jagannath, (1994) 1 SCC 1).
15\. "Fraud" is a conduct either by letter or words, which induces the other
person or authority to take a definite determinative stand as a response to
the conduct of the former either by words or letter. Although negligence is
not fraud it can be evidence of fraud; as observed in Ram Preeti Yadav, (2003)
8 SCC 311.
16\. In Lazarus Estate Ltd. v. Beasley (1956) 1 QB 702, Lord Denning observed
at pages 712 & 713: (All ER p. 345C) "No judgment of a Court, no order of a
Minister can be allowed to stand if it has been obtained by fraud. Fraud
unravels everything." In the same judgment, Lord Parker LJ observed that fraud
"vitiates all transactions known to the law of however high a degree of
solemnity". (emphasis supplied)
75\. In A.V. Papayya Sastry v. Govt. of A.P., (2007) 4 SCC 221, this Court as
to the effect of fraud on the judgment or order observed thus:
> 19\. Now, it is wellsettled principle of law that if any judgment or order
> is obtained by fraud, it cannot be said to be a judgment or order in law.
> Before three centuries, Chief Justice Edward Coke proclaimed; Fraud avoids
> all judicial acts, ecclesiastical or temporal.
> 22\. It is thus settled proposition of law that a judgment, decree or order
> obtained by playing fraud on the Court, Tribunal or Authority is a nullity
> and nonest in the eye of law. Such a judgment, decree or order by the first
> Court or by the final Cour thas to be treated as nullity by every Court,
> superior or inferior. It can be challenged in any Court, at any time, in
> appeal,revision, writ or even in collateral proceedings.
Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014 & Writ Petition No.11234/2020  -106- *** ***
***
38\. The matter can be looked at from a different angle as well. Suppose, a
case is decided by a competent Court of Law after hearing the parties and an
order is passed in favour of the applicant/plaintiff which is upheld by all
the courts including the final Court. Let us also think of a case where this
Court does not dismiss Special Leave Petition but after granting leave decides
the appeal finally by recording reasons. Such order can truly be said to be a
judgment to which Article 141 of the Constitution applies. Likewise, the
doctrine of merger also gets attracted. All orders passed by the
courts/authorities below, therefore, merge in the judgment of this Court and
after such judgment, it is not open to any party to the judgment to approach
any court or authority to review, recall or reconsider the order. 39. The
above principle, however, is subject to exception of fraud. Once it is
established that the order was obtained by a successful party by practising or
playing fraud, it is vitiated. Such order cannot be held legal, valid or in
consonance with law. It is nonexistent and nonest and cannot be allowed to
stand. This is the fundamental principle of law and needs no further
elaboration. Therefore, it has been said that a judgment, decree or order
obtained by fraud has to be treated as nullity, whether by the court of first
instance or by the final court. And it has to be treated as nonest by every
Court, superior or inferior.
Supervisory jurisdiction of the court can be exercised in case of error
apparent on the face of the record, abuse of process and if the issue goes to
the root of the matter.
76\. In S.P. Chengalvaraya Naidu v. Jagannath, (1994) 1 SCC 1, this Court
noted that the issue of fraud goes to the root of the matter and it exercised
powers under Article 136 to cure the defect. The Court observed:
"5. The High Court, in our view, fell into patent error. The short question
before the High Court was whether, in the facts and circumstances of this
case, Jagannath obtained the preliminary decree by playing fraud on the court.
The High Court, however, went haywire and made observations which are wholly
perverse. We do not agree with the High Court that "there is no legal duty
cast upon the plaintiff to come to court with a true case and prove it by true
evidence". The principle of "finality of litigation" cannot be pressed to the
extent of such an absurdity that it becomes an Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014,
135/2014 & Writ Petition No.11234/2020  -107- engine of fraud in the hands of
dishonest litigants. The courts of law are meant for imparting justice between
the parties. One who comes to the court must come with clean hands. We are
constrained to say that more often than not, the process of the court is being
abused. Propertygrabbers, axevaders, bankloandodgers and other unscrupulous
persons from all walks of life find the court process a convenient lever to
retain the illegalgains indefinitely. We have no hesitation to say that a
person, who's case is based on falsehood, has no right to approach the court.
He can be summarily thrown out at any stage of the litigation.
6\. The facts of the present case leave no manner of doubt that Jagannath
obtained the preliminary decree by playing fraud on the court. A fraud is an
act of deliberate deception with the design of securing something by taking
unfair advantage of another. It is a deception in order to gain by another's
loss. It is a cheating intended to get an advantage. Jagannath was working as
a clerk with Chunilal Sowcar. He purchased the property in the court auction
on behalf of Chunilal Sowcar. He had, on his own volition, executed the
registered release deed (Exhibit B1S) in favour of Chunilal Sowcar regarding
the property in dispute. He knew that the appellants had paid the total
decretal amount to his master Chunilal Sowcar. Without disclosing all these
facts, he filed the suit for the partition of the property on the ground that
he had purchased the property on his own behalf and not on behalf of Chunilal
Sowcar.
Nonproduction and even nonmentioning of the release deed at the trial
tantamounts to playing fraud on the court. We do not agree with the
observations of the High Court that the appellantsdefendants could have easily
produced the certified registered copy of Exhibit B15 and nonsuited the
plaintiff. A litigant, who approaches the court, is bound to produce all the
documents executed by him which are relevant to the litigation. If he
withholds a vital document in order to gain advantage on the other side then
he would be guilty of playing fraud on the court as well as on the opposite
party."
77\. In K.K. Modi v. K.N. Modi, (1998) 3 SCC 573, it was observed that one of
the examples cited as an abuse of the process of the court is relitigation. It
is an abuse of the process of the court and contrary to justice and public
policy for a party to relitigate the same issue which has already been tried
and decided earlier against him.
78\. Learned counsel for the respondent has Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014
& Writ Petition No.11234/2020  -108- placed reliance on the decision rendered
in Ujjagar Singh v. Collector, Bhatinda, (1996) 5 SCC 14, wherein this Court
examined the effect of coming into force of Punjab Land Reforms Act, 1972 and
vesting of the surplus area in the State. In this case, the area in possession
of landlord was declared surplus under the Pepsu Act, but possession had not
been taken by the State. It was held that area did not vest finally as the
surplus area under the Pepsu Act, owing to coming into force of the new Act,
the ceiling area must be determined afresh under the new Punjab Act. In the
instant case, the order was passed in ceiling matter in the year 1980 and the
adjudication order of Collector (Ceiling) was not questioned nor the order of
remand to declare land as surplus and then the additional land was declared
surplus in 1993. It was not the case of reopening of the case. In fact, the
land has vested in the State under the Abolition Act. Thereafter, compensation
has been obtained, obviously once land has vested in the State, the possession
of such land/open land is deemed to be that of the owner. In any view of the
matter, in the facts and circumstances of the instant case, compensation could
not have been claimed.
79\. In State of H.P. v. Harnama, (2004) 13 SCC 534, this Court observed that
possession of land was not taken and the tenant was in occupation of the land
and had acquired ownership rights before the land was declared surplus as
against the landlord. It was further observed that the land in question had
been notified as surplus and the fact that the original owner of the land had
been paid compensation, would be of no avail to the State if before the date
of 58 actual vesting nonoccupant tenant in possession of the land had acquired
ownership rights. It is totally distinguishable and cannot be applied to the
instant case.
80\. Learned counsel on behalf of the respondent has referred to the decision
rendered in Madan Kishore v. Major Sudhir Sewal, (2008) 8 SCC 744, wherein
question arose with respect to entitlement of subtenant to apply under Section
27(4). It was held that the expression in Section 27(4), such tenant who
cultivates such land, does not entitle a subtenant either to claim proprietary
rights or apply for the same under Section 27(4). It was held that he was not
a subtenant. The decision is of no help to the cause espoused on behalf of
LRs. of Rajinder Singh. In the peculiar facts projected in the case the
principle fraud vitiates is clearly applicable it cannot be ignored and
overlooked under the guise of the scope of proceedings under Section 18/30 of
the LA Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014 & Writ Petition No.11234/2020  -109-
Act.
81\. In the peculiar facts projected in the case the principle fraud vitiates
is clearly applicable it cannot be ignored and overlooked under the guise of
the scope of proceedings under Section 18/30 of the LA Act.
In light of the aforesaid judgment, as fraud vitiates everything and in the
present case, trustees have played a fraud upon the State Government, the sale
deeds executed by the Trust in respect of the properties of the State
Government are null and void and stands vitiated. Hence, the Collector was
justified in passing the impugned order and the Registrar, Public Trust was
also justified in passing the impugned order.
136\. In the humble opinion of this Court, as the property in question was not
the property of the Maharaja, Article 363 of the Constitution of India also
comes into play and the learned Single Judge could not have drafted the trust
deed which has been done by passing the impugned order. The petitions in fact
were not at all maintainable in respect of the property which came to the
share of the State Government though managed by the Trust, and therefore, the
order passed by the learned Single Judge deserve to be set aside.
137\. Shri S.C. Bagadia, learned senior counsel has argued before this Court
in the connected writ appeal i.e., W.A. No.135/2014 that the order passed by
the Registrar, Public Trust and the Collector are bad in law and there is a
process provided under the law for mutation of name of the State Government.
Once this Court has arrived at a conclusion that a fraud has been played upon
in the matter and the property of the State Government has been sold, the Writ
Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014 & Writ Petition No.11234/2020  -110- orders
passed by the Collector and Registrar, Public Trust do not suffer from any
perversity or illegality, hence, they do not warrant any interference by this
Court.
138\. Learned counsel appearing for the Trust has also drawn the attention of
this Court towards the judgment delivered in the case of Marthanda Varma
(supra). In the aforesaid case, the issue was in respect of Shebaitship and
the Hon'ble Supreme Court has held that covenant signed by the covenanting
state cannot be subjected to judicial scrutiny keeping in view the bar
provided under Article 363 of the Constitution of India.
139\. In the present case the issue involved is altogether different. The
issue involved is whether the Khasgi Trust and its trustees can sell the
property, which is exclusively the property of the State of Madhya Pradesh, or
not ? The trustees have certainly sold the property of the State of Madhya
Pradesh and they have violated the terms and conditions of the trust deed.
140\. The most astonishing aspect of the case is that the learned Single Judge
has virtually drafted a fresh trust deed by passing the impugned judgments.
New trustees have been appointed new-new conditions have been incorporated in
the trust deed and it has been held that the Trust properties will not be sold
with the permission of the State Government and after holding that the Trust
properties will not be without the permission of the Government it has also
been observed that earlier sales will not be looked into. This itself is a
contrary view and cannot be sustained. The religious and charitable trust have
been established by erstwhile ruler with a very pious and noble object with an
Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014 & Writ Petition No.11234/2020  -111- aim and
object to help a common man and for the welfare of a common man.
141\. Religious and charitable trusts are found to exist, in some shape or the
other, in almost all the civilized countries and their origin can be traced
primarily to the instincts of piety and benevolence which are implanted in
human nature.
142\. Religious and charitable trust means a trust created for the purposes of
religion or charity. Religion is absolutely a matter of faith with individuals
or communities, and it is not a necessarily theistic.
143\. Religious purpose means that the purpose or object is to secure the
spiritual well being of a person or persons according to the tenets of the
particular religion in which he / they believe in.
144\. Charity means benevolence and in its wide and popular sense it
comprehends all forms of benefit, physical, intellectual, moral, ethical or
religious, bestowed upon persons who are in need of them.
145\. In Halsburg's Laws of England (Halsburg, 2nd Addition, Volume - 33, Page
- 87), a trust has been defined as a confidence reposed in a person with
respect to property of which he has possession or over which he can exercise
power, to the intent that he may hold the property or exercise the power for
the Benefit of some other person or object.
146\. Hindu Religions and Charitable acts have been from the earliest time
classified under two heads, viz., Istha and Purtta. These two words are often
used conjointly, and they are as old as Rigveda.
Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014 & Writ Petition No.11234/2020  -112-
147\. Istha means Vedic sacrifices, and rites and gifts in connection with the
same; Purtta on the other hand means and signifies other pious and charitable
acts which are unconnected with any Strouta or Vedic Sacrifice.
148\. A trust has to function for the welfare of the society at large. In the
ancient period wells, ponds, lakes, ghats, Dharamshala were established as
public trust and performance of trust during ancient period is ensured by the
following texts:-
> x.knzO;a gjs/kLrq lafona ya?k;sPp ;% A loLogj.ka d`Rok ra jk"Vkn~
> foizokl;sr~ AA O;ogkjk/;k; 187 He who steals communal wealth or violates the
> rules of a trust should be exiled from the country after being deprived of
> all wealth.
> (Yajnavalkya, Vyavaharadhyaya 187) ;ks xzkens'kla/kkuka d`Rok lR;su lafone~
> A folaosnUujks yksHkkRra jk"Vkn~ foizokl;sr~ AA 81219  Le`frpfUnzdk
> lafon~ O;frde  He who, having truthfully undertaken a trust for the
> village, the country or community, violates it out of greed should be exiled
> from the country.
> (Manu, quoted in Smritichandrika, violation of undertaking)
149\. To protect the public trust property various safeguards have been
provided under the statutory provisions and it is the divine and pious duty of
a trustee to ensure that the trust property is kept safe, intact and useful
for the generations to come. In the present case, as the State of Madhya
Pradesh is the titleholder of the property, it is the duty of the State to
protect and preserve the property
150\. In light of the aforesaid, this Court is of the considered opinion that
the orders passed by the learned Single Judge dated 28.11.2013 in W.P.
No.11618/2012 and Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014 & Writ Petition
No.11234/2020  -113- 03.12.2013 in W.P. No.5372/2010, which are contrary to
the constitutional mandate, as provided under Article 363 of the Constitution
of India, deserve to be quashed and are accordingly, quashed.
151\. Shri Saxena, learned Senior Counsel has argued before this Court that
doctrine of Cy prs is applicable present case.
> "Doctrine of Cy prs means "following as nearly as possible the intention of
> the donor."
> Sheridan and Delany, The Cy prs Doctrine (1959)."
152\. From early times the religious and charitable Institutions in the
country came under the protection of the ruling authority. The Smriti writers
make it a duty on the part of the King to uphold the customs and usages of the
land unless they are contradictory to revelation; and the Mitakshara, in
commenting upon a passage of Yajnavalkya relating to the enforcement of
customs, expressly refers to customs in connection with management of temples
[See: Ghar Pure's Mitakshara, P.329]. The duty of protecting endowments is one
of the primary duties of the King as mentioned in Shukraniti and other
treaties. [G. Iyer's Law of Endowments, 2nd Edition, P.23-25].
153\. In the case of Rajah Muttu Ramalinga Setupati Vs. Perinayagum Pillai,
L.R.1, I.A. 209 at 233, it was observed by the Privy Council that there could
be little doubt that this Superintending authority over temples and religious
endowments was exercised by the old rulers.
154\. Keeping in view the doctrine of Cy prs, earlier it was a duty of the
erstwhile ruler to protect the property and after the Covenant was signed, as
the property mentioned in Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014 & Writ Petition
No.11234/2020  -114- the trust deed became absolute property of the State of
Madhya Pradesh, it is the duty of the State of Madhya Pradesh to protect and
preserve all religious and charitable institutions and other properties which
finds place in the Trust Deed, especially in light of the fact that title lies
with the State of Madhya Pradesh, keeping in view the intention of the donor
who has created the charities for public at large.
155\. It has been vehemently argued on behalf of the Trust and the Trustees
that entire action was initiated in the matter only because the then Member of
Parliament from Indore Mrs. Sumitra Mahajan wrote a letter to the Chief
Minister. This Court really appreciates the concern shown by Member of
Parliament in the matter. In fact she was the one who has brought it to the
notice of the Government in order to save the Trust property, which includes
12000 acres of land including Temples, Ghats, Dharamshalas, Rest Houses, etc.
156\. On the basis of letter written by the Member of Parliament, the Chief
Secretary / Chief Minister directed an inquiry in the matter and the then
Principal Secretary to the Chief Minister Mr. Manoj Kumar Shrivastava, IAS
submitted a very detail and exhaustive report on 02/12/2012. The report is on
record and it has been filed by Mr. Vijay Pal Singh, Intervener in Writ
Petition No.135/2014. The report refers to Covenant dated 22/04/1948 and
notification dated 07/05/1949 on account of which the Khasgi properties and
the income from the Khasgi Trust vested in the State of Madhya Bharat. The
report further reflects that the State of Madhya Pradesh Writ Appeal
Nos.92/2014, 135/2014 & Writ Petition No.11234/2020  -115- came into existence
w.e.f. 01/11/1956 and the Khasgi properties thereafter, vested in the State of
Madhya Pradesh. This fact has also been admitted on 27/06/1962.
157\. The then Principal Secretary to the Chief Minister after taking into
account the Covenant and the case law on the subject has strongly recommended
for preservation and protection of Khasgi properties and thereafter, action
was taken by the Collector, Indore in the matter.
158\. This Court is not reproducing the entire report as the Covenants, Trust
Deeds and the notification issued by the Government of India have already been
reproduced in earlier paragraphs. Thus, it is wrong on the part of the
respondent to say that the mechanical exercise was undertaken by the Collector
based upon letter of Member of Parliament. With due application of mind, the
State Government through Collector, Indore keeping in view the covenant, trust
deed and the statutory provisions has taken action in the matter.
159\. In the considered opinion of this Court, this Court does not have the
power to draft the Trust Deed nor is having the power to enact the statute in
respect of trust in question. However, as the properties which are under the
ownership of State of Madhya Pradesh have been sold by the Trust / Trustees, a
Committee deserves to be constituted to ensure that the trust properties as
per the schedule appended with the original trust deed are preserved,
maintained and kept intact for the future generations to come.
160\. The Committee so constituted shall inquire in respect of the properties
sold by the Trust and shall take all Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014 & Writ
Petition No.11234/2020  -116- possible steps to recover and retrieve any
property or fund of the property, which have been sold or have been in
unauthorized occupation or misappropriated. For doing the aforesaid task, the
State of Madhya Pradesh shall incur all the expenditures, in case there is
paucity of fund in the accounts of the trust, especially in light of the fact
that it is the State of Madhya Pradesh, who is having title over all
properties.
161\. The following Committee is constituted for the aforesaid work comprising
of :-
> (a) Chief Secretary, State of Madhya Pradesh (Chairman);
> (b) Principal Secretary, Finance Department (Member);
> (c) Additional Chief Secretary, Dharmaswa Department (Member);
> (d) Commissioner, Indore Division, Indore (Member);
(e) Collector, Indore (Secretary).
The State of Madhya Pradesh shall be free to proceed ahead in accordance with
law.
162\. In the connected writ petition i.e. W.P. No.11234/2020, which is a
Public Interest Litigation, a prayer has been made for issuance of an
appropriate writ, order or directing directing a CBI inquiry. So far as the
prayer with regard to directions for CBI inquiry is concerned, this Court is
of the considered opinion that no such directions are required. The allegation
of misappropriation of Government properties and its disposal to favour
someone and to cause loss to Public Exchequer, if at all, can very well be
examined by Economic Investigation Wing of the State of Madhya Pradesh and
accordingly, it is directed that the said Wing will thoroughly examine the
matter and if it finds any criminality into the Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014,
135/2014 & Writ Petition No.11234/2020  -117- actions of any authority, it is
expected that appropriate action should be taken by the said Wing. Hence, no
positive direction to register a First Information Report is required.
Resultantly, the Economic Offences Wing shall examine the matter and shall be
free to proceed ahead in accordance with law.
163\. The State of Madhya Pradesh is directed to take all possible steps to
preserve the cultural heritage including the Ghats, Temples, Dharamshalas,
which find place in the Trust property, being the titleholder of the property
in question. The State of Madhya Pradesh shall also take appropriate action in
accordance with law against all those persons, who have allegedly illegally
sold the Trust's property from time to time.
164\. In W.P. No.11234/2020, the Union of India is already a party and Shri
Milind Phadke has also been heard in the matter before delivering the
judgment. He has also stated that the properties in question, on account of
the covenant and the statutory notifications issued from time to time, are the
exclusive properties of the State of Madhya Pradesh.
165\. This Court on 23.04.2014 has directed the parties to maintain status quo
and it has been informed by learned counsel for the State of Madhya Pradesh
that some construction has taken place by the private parties.
166\. Resultantly, the State of Madhya Pradesh is directed to take appropriate
action in respect of the construction which has taken place over the Khasgi
properties and shall restore it to its original position and the entire
expenditure shall be borne by the State of Madhya Pradesh through Writ Appeal
Nos.92/2014, 135/2014 & Writ Petition No.11234/2020  -118- Commissioner,
Indore. The Collector, Haridwar shall assist the Divisional Commissioner,
Indore in the matter and the Divisional Commissioner, Indore shall ensure that
Kusha Ghat as well as other properties are again, which are meant for public
charities are made available to public at large. The aforesaid direction is
not only in respect of present property but in respect of other properties
also. The State of Madhya Pradesh shall ensure by taking appropriate steps in
accordance with law that no further sale takes place in respect of such
properties and they shall maintain the properties for the generations to come
keeping in view their historic importance. The Collector, Indore shall be free
to take action in accordance with law pursuant to the order passed by him
dated 05.11.2012 and the Registrar shall also be free to take appropriate
action in accordance with law pursuant to the order passed by him dated
30.11.2012.
With the aforesaid, the present Writ Appeal stands allowed and connected Writ
Appeal also stands allowed.
As this Court has already allowed both the writ appeals, Writ Petition
No.11234/2020 stands disposed of and the order passed in the writ appeals
shall govern the writ petition also.
Certified copy, as per rules.
      (S.C. SHARMA)                         (SHAILENDRA SHUKLA)
         JUDGE                                    JUDGE
    Ravi
    Digitally signed by Ravi Prakash
    Date: 2020.10.05 14:15:46 +05'30'
not only in respect of present property but in respect of other properties
also. The State of Madhya Pradesh shall ensure by taking appropriate steps in
accordance with law that no further sale takes place in respect of such
properties and they shall maintain the properties for the generations to come
keeping in view their historic importance. The Collector, Indore shall be free
to take action in accordance with law pursuant to the order passed by him
dated 05.11.2012 and the Registrar shall also be free to take appropriate
action in accordance with law pursuant to the order passed by him dated
30.11.2012.
With the aforesaid, the present Writ Appeal stands allowed and connected Writ
Appeal also stands allowed.
As this Court has already allowed both the writ appeals, Writ Petition
No.11234/2020 stands disposed of and the order passed in the writ appeals
shall govern the writ petition also.
Certified copy, as per rules.
      (S.C. SHARMA)                         (SHAILENDRA SHUKLA)
                              Vipin Dhanaitkar
                                   Versus
                     State of Madhya Pradesh & Others
    Counsel for the Parties   : Shri A.K. Chitle, learned senior counsel
                                along with Shri Kartik Chitle, Shri Kapil
                                Sibal, learned senior counsel along with
                                Shri Abhinav Malhotra, Shri Shyam Diwan,
                                learned senior counsel along with Shri
                                Abhinav Malhotra and Ms. Sugnadha
                                Yadav and Shri Manoj Manav and Shri
                                Milind Phadke Shri A.S. Garg, learned
                                senior counsel along with Ms. Poorva
                                Mahajan, Shri S.C. Bagadia, learned senior
                                counsel along with Shri Vivek Patwa and
                                Shri Rohit Saboo, Shri Shekhar Bhargava,
                                learned senior counsel along with Ms.
                                Anika Bajpai, Shri V.K. Jain, learned senior
                                counsel along with Shri Vaibhav Jain, Shri
                                Kapil Sibal, learned senior counsel along
                                with Shri Abhinav Malhotra , Shri Shyam
not only in respect of present property but in respect of other properties
also. The State of Madhya Pradesh shall ensure by taking appropriate steps in
accordance with law that no further sale takes place in respect of such
properties and they shall maintain the properties for the generations to come
keeping in view their historic importance. The Collector, Indore shall be free
to take action in accordance with law pursuant to the order passed by him
dated 05.11.2012 and the Registrar shall also be free to take appropriate
action in accordance with law pursuant to the order passed by him dated
30.11.2012.
With the aforesaid, the present Writ Appeal stands allowed and connected Writ
Appeal also stands allowed.
As this Court has already allowed both the writ appeals, Writ Petition
No.11234/2020 stands disposed of and the order passed in the writ appeals
shall govern the writ petition also.
Certified copy, as per rules.
      (S.C. SHARMA)                         (SHAILENDRA SHUKLA)
                              Vipin Dhanaitkar
                                   Versus
                     State of Madhya Pradesh & Others
    Counsel for the Parties   : Shri A.K. Chitle, learned senior counsel
                                along with Shri Kartik Chitle, Shri Kapil
                                Sibal, learned senior counsel along with
                                Shri Abhinav Malhotra, Shri Shyam Diwan,
                                learned senior counsel along with Shri
                                Abhinav Malhotra and Ms. Sugnadha
                                Yadav and Shri Manoj Manav and Shri
                                Milind Phadke Shri A.S. Garg, learned
                                senior counsel along with Ms. Poorva
                                Mahajan, Shri S.C. Bagadia, learned senior
                                counsel along with Shri Vivek Patwa and
                                Shri Rohit Saboo, Shri Shekhar Bhargava,
                                learned senior counsel along with Ms.
                                Anika Bajpai, Shri V.K. Jain, learned senior
                                counsel along with Shri Vaibhav Jain, Shri
                                Kapil Sibal, learned senior counsel along
                                with Shri Abhinav Malhotra , Shri Shyam
not only in respect of present property but in respect of other properties
also. The State of Madhya Pradesh shall ensure by taking appropriate steps in
accordance with law that no further sale takes place in respect of such
properties and they shall maintain the properties for the generations to come
keeping in view their historic importance. The Collector, Indore shall be free
to take action in accordance with law pursuant to the order passed by him
dated 05.11.2012 and the Registrar shall also be free to take appropriate
action in accordance with law pursuant to the order passed by him dated
30.11.2012.
With the aforesaid, the present Writ Appeal stands allowed and connected Writ
Appeal also stands allowed.
As this Court has already allowed both the writ appeals, Writ Petition
No.11234/2020 stands disposed of and the order passed in the writ appeals
shall govern the writ petition also.
Certified copy, as per rules.
      (S.C. SHARMA)                         (SHAILENDRA SHUKLA)
                              Vipin Dhanaitkar
                                   Versus
                     State of Madhya Pradesh & Others
    Counsel for the Parties   : Shri A.K. Chitle, learned senior counsel
                                along with Shri Kartik Chitle, Shri Kapil
                                Sibal, learned senior counsel along with
                                Shri Abhinav Malhotra, Shri Shyam Diwan,
                                learned senior counsel along with Shri
                                Abhinav Malhotra and Ms. Sugnadha
                                Yadav and Shri Manoj Manav and Shri
                                Milind Phadke Shri A.S. Garg, learned
                                senior counsel along with Ms. Poorva
                                Mahajan, Shri S.C. Bagadia, learned senior
                                counsel along with Shri Vivek Patwa and
                                Shri Rohit Saboo, Shri Shekhar Bhargava,
                                learned senior counsel along with Ms.
                                Anika Bajpai, Shri V.K. Jain, learned senior
                                counsel along with Shri Vaibhav Jain, Shri
                                Kapil Sibal, learned senior counsel along
                                with Shri Abhinav Malhotra , Shri Shyam
                                Diwan, learned senior counsel along with
                                Shri Abhinav Malhotra and Ms. Sugnadha
                                Yadav and Shri Manoj Manav and Shri
                                Milind Phadke.
    Whether approved for      : Yes
    reporting
                                             Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014
                                                & Writ Petition No.11234/2020
                                    -2-
    Law laid down           : 1. The dispute, as to whether a particular
                              property was or was not recognized as
not only in respect of present property but in respect of other properties
also. The State of Madhya Pradesh shall ensure by taking appropriate steps in
accordance with law that no further sale takes place in respect of such
properties and they shall maintain the properties for the generations to come
keeping in view their historic importance. The Collector, Indore shall be free
to take action in accordance with law pursuant to the order passed by him
dated 05.11.2012 and the Registrar shall also be free to take appropriate
action in accordance with law pursuant to the order passed by him dated
30.11.2012.
With the aforesaid, the present Writ Appeal stands allowed and connected Writ
Appeal also stands allowed.
As this Court has already allowed both the writ appeals, Writ Petition
No.11234/2020 stands disposed of and the order passed in the writ appeals
shall govern the writ petition also.
Certified copy, as per rules.
      (S.C. SHARMA)                         (SHAILENDRA SHUKLA)
                              Vipin Dhanaitkar
                                   Versus
                     State of Madhya Pradesh & Others
    Counsel for the Parties   : Shri A.K. Chitle, learned senior counsel
                                along with Shri Kartik Chitle, Shri Kapil
                                Sibal, learned senior counsel along with
                                Shri Abhinav Malhotra, Shri Shyam Diwan,
                                learned senior counsel along with Shri
                                Abhinav Malhotra and Ms. Sugnadha
                                Yadav and Shri Manoj Manav and Shri
                                Milind Phadke Shri A.S. Garg, learned
                                senior counsel along with Ms. Poorva
                                Mahajan, Shri S.C. Bagadia, learned senior
                                counsel along with Shri Vivek Patwa and
                                Shri Rohit Saboo, Shri Shekhar Bhargava,
                                learned senior counsel along with Ms.
                                Anika Bajpai, Shri V.K. Jain, learned senior
                                counsel along with Shri Vaibhav Jain, Shri
                                Kapil Sibal, learned senior counsel along
                                with Shri Abhinav Malhotra , Shri Shyam
                                Diwan, learned senior counsel along with
                                Shri Abhinav Malhotra and Ms. Sugnadha
                                Yadav and Shri Manoj Manav and Shri
                                Milind Phadke.
    Whether approved for      : Yes
    reporting
                                             Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014
                                                & Writ Petition No.11234/2020
                                    -2-
    Law laid down           : 1. The dispute, as to whether a particular
                              property was or was not recognized as
not only in respect of present property but in respect of other properties
also. The State of Madhya Pradesh shall ensure by taking appropriate steps in
accordance with law that no further sale takes place in respect of such
properties and they shall maintain the properties for the generations to come
keeping in view their historic importance. The Collector, Indore shall be free
to take action in accordance with law pursuant to the order passed by him
dated 05.11.2012 and the Registrar shall also be free to take appropriate
action in accordance with law pursuant to the order passed by him dated
30.11.2012.
With the aforesaid, the present Writ Appeal stands allowed and connected Writ
Appeal also stands allowed.
As this Court has already allowed both the writ appeals, Writ Petition
No.11234/2020 stands disposed of and the order passed in the writ appeals
shall govern the writ petition also.
Certified copy, as per rules.
      (S.C. SHARMA)                         (SHAILENDRA SHUKLA)
