Delhi High Court
Himalaya Drug Co. vs Sbl Limited on 3 June, 2010
Author: S. Muralidhar
           IN THE HIGH COURT OF DELHI AT NEW DELHI
                                    CS (OS) No. 111 of 2006
                                          Reserved on:   22nd January 2010
                                          Decision on:   3rd June 2010
           HIMALAYA DRUG CO.                         ..... Plaintiff
                       Through Mr. Hemant Singh with
                       Ms. Mamta Rani Jha, Mr Sachin Gupta,
                       Mr. Shashi Jha, Mr. Manish K. Mishra,
                       Mr. Animesh Rastogi and
                       Mr. Sumit Rajput, Advocates
                           versus
           SBL LIMITED                                   ..... Defendant
                                    Through Mr. Atishi Dipankar with
                                    Mr. S.P. Jha and Mr.B.K. Jha, Advocates
           CORAM: JUSTICE S. MURALIDHAR
              1. Whether reporters of local paper may be allowed
                 to see the judgment?                                           No
distinctive part of the mark which, therefore, will have to be kept out of
comparison. The issue is, therefore, answered in favour of the Defendant and
against the Plaintiff.
75\. Issue No. 13: Whether the suit suffers from delay, laches and
acquiescence and if so, to what effect? (OPD) The Defendant has not been able
to show that the suit is barred by laches. The issue is decided against
Defendant and in favour of the Plaintiff. CS (OS) No. 111/2006 Page 39 of 40
76\. Issue No. 14: Whether the plaintiff is entitled to relief for rendition
of accounts and if so, its nature of relief? (OPP) In view of the findings of
this Court that there is no deceptive similarity in the use by the Defendant
of the trade mark „LIV-T‟ for its homeopathic medicines for treating liver
related ailments vis-à-vis the Plaintiff‟s ayurvedic medicine „Liv.52‟ the
question of the Plaintiff being entitled for relief for rendition of accounts
does not arise. The issue is decided against the Plaintiff.
77\. Issue No. 15: Relief.
For all of the aforementioned reasons, the suit is dismissed with costs of
                 to see the judgment?                                           No
              2.   To be referred to the reporter or not?                       Yes
              3.   Whether the judgment should be referred in the digest?       Yes
                                      JUDGMENT
03.06.2010 Introduction
1\. The Plaintiff, which is the manufacturer of an Ayurvedic medicine
"Liv.52", seeks a permanent injunction restraining infringement of its said
trademark by the Defendant which is manufacturing a Homeopathic drug "LIV-T".
2\. The case has been entirely presented and argued as a suit for
infringement. The incidental reliefs are for delivery up of all the infringing
goods and rendition of accounts by the Plaintiff.
CS (OS) No. 111/2006 Page 1 of 40 Pleadings
3\. The Plaintiff is a registered partnership firm engaged in the business of
manufacturing and marketing Ayurvedic medicinal preparations and formulations
since 1930. It claims to have gained tremendous reputation in the field of
medicine and amongst consumers through large-scale advertising, extensive
sales and innovative promotional schemes. Liv.52 is stated to be among several
well-known ayurvedic medicines manufactured and marketed by the Plaintiff.
4\. Liv.52 is a liver tonic prescribed for liver disorders. It is further
advised for promoting appetite and growth, the two biological phenomenon
directly related to liver. It is stated that the trademark "Liv.52" is a
coined mark. According to the Plaintiff, the prefix "Liv" has no dictionary
meaning or any meaning in common parlance. The said trademark is stated to
have been coined and adopted by the Plaintiff in 1955 and has been used by it
continuously and exclusively all over India since then.
5\. It is claimed that at or around the time of the filing of the present suit
in 1996, the approximate turnover for sales of „Liv.52‟ for the year 1995-96
was over Rs. 30 crores and the promotional expenditure during the same period
was Rs. 3 crores. This, according to the Plaintiff, was reflective of the
goodwill that the trademark Liv.52 commands in medical circles and in the
public. It is stated that the trademark Liv.52, apart from having inherent
distinctiveness on account of its being a coined mark, has also become
distinctive on account of its extensive use by the Plaintiff in relation to
liver related preparations and medicines since 1955. The CS (OS) No. 111/2006
Page 2 of 40 Plaintiff states that it is the proprietor of the trademark
Liv.52 under the common law having exclusive right to the use thereof in
relation to the pharmaceutical and medicinal preparations.
6\. The Plaintiff states that it holds the following trademark registrations
in Class 5:
           "Trade Mark Regn. No. Class Date            Goods
           LIV.52      180564    5     10.7.57 Medicinal Preparations
                                               for the treatment of
                                               Disorders of liver
           LIV.52          290061       5     10.8.73           -do-
           LIV.52          401959      5      25.2.87   Medicinal, pharma-
           (Label)                                      ceutical and ayurvedic
                                                        preparations and
                                                        substances"
It is stated that all the above registrations have been kept renewed till
date.
7\. The Defendant, M/s. SBL Limited, having its headquarters at Sahibabad,
District Ghaziabad, U.P., is engaged in the business of manufacturing and
marketing homoeopathic preparations. The Plaintiff alleges that the Defendant
has dishonestly and malafide adopted the trademark "LIV-T" in relation to
homeopathic preparations meant to cure liver disorders. The Plaintiff states
that Liv.52 and LIV-T are deceptively similar. In the plaint, it is stated
that "the essential and distinguishable feature of both the trademarks being
identical, i.e., "LIV". The Defendant‟s medicinal preparation is bound to be
presumed to be another liver related medicinal preparation originating from
the Plaintiff or having an association or nexus with the Plaintiff, which
being false is a misrepresentation leading to CS (OS) No. 111/2006 Page 3 of
40 passing off of the Defendant‟s goods/business as those of the plaintiff. It
is stated that "the suffix "52" in the Plaintiff‟s trademark or "T" in the
Defendant‟s trademark are incapable of distinguishing any medicinal
preparations of either of the parties or sufficient to prevent the likelihood
of confusion or deception that is bound to occur on account of the essential
feature "LIV" being identical."
8\. It is submitted that the use of the trademark LIV-T by the Defendant in
relation to liver related preparations which is phonetically and structurally
identical to the trademark Liv.52 of the Plaintiff further amounts to the
violation of the Plaintiff‟s statutory right of exclusive use of the mark
Liv.52 and infringement of its trademark registrations under Section 29 (1) of
the Trade & Merchandise Marks Act, 1958 (`TM Act 1958‟). It is submitted that
the adoption and use of the trademark LIV-T by the Defendant in relation to
the identical trade and goods "is fraudulent, dishonest and totally illegal."
It is alleged that the use of the said mark LIV-T by the Defendant in relation
to identical trade and goods amounts to counterfeiting an offence under
Sections 78 and 79 of the TM Act 1958.
9\. The Plaintiff sent a legal notice on 14th March 1996 calling upon the
Defendant to desist using the trademark LIV-T. However, the Defendant has
continued using the said trademark. Accordingly, the present suit was filed
seeking the relief of permanent injunction against the infringement and
damages.
10\. In the written statement filed by the Defendant, apart from raising a CS
(OS) No. 111/2006 Page 4 of 40 preliminary objection as to the territorial
jurisdiction of this Court to entertain the suit and the authorization under
which the plaint has been filed, it is contended that the word "LIV" is
generic and common to trade as describing the medicines associated with the
treatment of liver. It is stated that "Liv" has become "publici juris" in the
field of medicines and pharmaceuticals where it is common practice that the
drugs are named either by the name of organ and or by the principle
ingredients or the name of the ailment, thereby reducing the chances of error.
It is submitted that a word or its abbreviation, having become publici juris,
ceases to be the subject matter of proprietorship, and also ceases to be a
source of deception or confusion for the persons likely to deal with such
goods, who in any event would ignore the publici juris and distinguish the
goods by either the prefixes or the suffixes.
11\. It is then submitted that the conflict alleged by the Plaintiff is
between two different products - one which is an ayurvedic medicine and the
other a homeopathic preparation. It is submitted that a homeopathic
preparation can be sold only through authorised homeopathic outlets having
homeopathic drugs licence. The Plaintiff‟s product, which is an "ayurvedic
proprietary medicine", is not sold through homeopathic outlets. However, the
packaging, cartons, labels including the distinguishing features are different
as are the colour schemes, placement of letters, and all other features. The
composition of the two products are entirely different. The packaging carton
of the Defendant‟s product prominently contains the name "SBL" which is
written in capital letters, in a bold and prominent fashion and in a very
large and prominent size along with the description CS (OS) No. 111/2006 Page
5 of 40 "Collaboration Boiron France" written in a smaller font size.
12\. It is stated that the carton of the Defendant which features an artistic
impression of the organ liver along with the letters in the word LIV-T written
in close conjunction with each other constitutes an original artistic work
under the Copyright Act, 1957 of which the answering Defendant is the
proprietor. It is further pointed out that the word "LIV" is used as a prefix
for the names of drugs for treatment of liver related problems by over fifty
pharmaceutical companies. It is pointed out that it is used in several
trademarks such as LIV CARD, LIV-UP, LIV-RIL-z, LIVCO, LIVO-10, LIVO-10 al,
LIVAPLEX, LIVOFIT, LIVA, LIVOL, LIVDRO, LIVAZOL, LIVERITE, LIVERJET, LIVERNUT,
LIVERPOL, LIVUP, LIVEX, LIVIVRON, LIVIBEE, LIVINA, LIVINOL, LIVIPREP,
LIVIRILE, LIVIRONVITA, LIVIRUBRA and LIVITA. It is stated that there are at
least eight ayurvedic and homeopathic preparations of eight different
manufacturers having names beginning with „LIV‟. These include LIVOMAP,
LIVION, LIVANO, LIVOTRIT, LIVOSIN, LIVOGUARD, LIVOMYN and LIVOTONE. The
Defendant, therefore, denies that they have dishonestly and malafide adopted
the mark LIV-T in relation to its medicinal preparation and that the marks
LIV.52 and LIV-T are deceptively similar. Since LIV is an abbreviation of
liver, and has been used in over 100 registrations as a constituent of the
name under which the products relating to treatment associated with liver are
being marketed, it is generic and common to trade as describing the medicines
associated with the treatment of liver. The Defendant states that upon
independent searches conducted by two trademark search agencies, it transpired
that there are CS (OS) No. 111/2006 Page 6 of 40 several companies that have
sought registration of trademarks such as LIVADEX, LIVOGEN, LIVOTONE,
LIVOVIBIN and LIVERON.
13\. It is submitted that the Plaintiff‟s legal notice dated 14th March 1986
was replied on 7th May 1986 denying the allegations. Proceedings in the case
14\. By an order dated 23rd May 1996, a learned Single Judge of this Court
issued an ex parte interim injunction, which was subsequently confirmed by the
order dated 12th July 1996 in favour of the Plaintiff. Aggrieved by the said
order, the Defendant filed FAO (OS) No. 301 of 1996 which was allowed by the
judgment dated 15th July 1997 of the Division Bench of this Court reported as
S.B.L. Ltd. v. Himalayan Drugs Co. AIR 1998 Del 126. It was held that "the two
rival marks Liv.52 and LIV-T contain a common feature Liv which is not only
descriptive but also publici juris; a customer will tend to ignore the common
feature and will pay more attention to uncommon features i.e., 52 and T. The
two do not have such phonetic similarity as to make it objectionable." It was
held that nobody can claim exclusive right to the use of `Liv‟ as a
constituent of any trademark. It was further held that the two cartons were
such that there was "no possibility of one being accused of deceptively
similar with the other and the likely customer mistaking one with the other,
even by recollecting faint impressions." The interim injunction was
accordingly vacated.
15\. The matter was then carried to the Supreme Court in SLP (Civil) No. 21173
of 1997 which was dismissed by the Supreme Court on 27th February 1998 stating
that the above judgment of the High Court was "in CS (OS) No. 111/2006 Page 7
of 40 the nature of an interim order passed in a pending matter." The High
Court was requested to take up the main case and decide the same
expeditiously. It was further observed: "It is needless to say that the
learned trial judge will dispose of the matter without being influenced by the
observations made in the impugned judgment."
16\. Issues were framed by an order dated 30th November 1998.
17\. There was another development which requires to be mentioned. The suit
was initially valued for the purpose of court fee jurisdiction at Rs. 5 lakh
and was filed in this Court. But with the increase in pecuniary jurisdiction,
the case was transferred to the Court of the learned Additional District
Judge. Thereafter the Plaintiff filed an application under Order VI Rule 17
CPC to amend the plaint and value the suit at Rs. 20 lakhs. The said amendment
was allowed by the order dated 29 th March 2005. Thereafter the suit was again
transferred to this Court. Evidence
18\. The Plaintiff examined six 6 witnesses. PW 1 was Mr. K.N. Jairaman, the
Commercial Manager of the Plaintiff. Mr. Jairaman stated in his evidence that
he has been in the employment of the Plaintiff since 1973. He has stated that
„Liv.52‟ is a coined trademark of the Plaintiff and the word „Liv‟ is not a
medically used term. He has also stated that the medicine „Liv.52‟ is sold
without medical prescription, as it is an Ayurvedic medicine. Mr. Jairaman has
also informed that this product is sold through the Plaintiff‟s 500 stockists
throughout the country who in CS (OS) No. 111/2006 Page 8 of 40 turn sell the
products to the retailers. The Plaintiff also has 500 field representatives
promoting this product throughout the country. Mr. Jairaman states that in
March 1996, they came to know about the use of the mark „LIV-T‟ by the
Defendant. Mr. Jairaman has stated that the grievance against the Defendant is
that in the Defendant‟s trademark „LIV- T‟, they have adopted the Plaintiff‟s
essential word „Liv‟, due to which a consumer is likely to identify the
product of the Defendant as a product manufactured by the manufacturers of
„Liv.52‟, which amounts to a misrepresentation by the Defendant. He has also
stated that on account of imperfect recollection on the part of the customer
who bought „Liv.52‟ before he bought „LIV-T‟, the customer may presume that it
is the same product which he purchased last. According to Mr. Jairaman, this
amounts to misappropriation of the goodwill of the Plaintiff by the Defendant.
He also said that the entire profits earned by the Defendant on sale of
„LIV-T‟ are the loss of the Plaintiff firm for which the Defendant must render
accounts to show the profit earned by them on the sale of LIV-T.
19\. Mr. Jairaman admitted that the Plaintiff is not selling Homeopathic
preparations. However, he has stated that if they want they can sell even
Homoeopathy and Allopathy medicines. Mr. Jairaman also stated that he has
found the medicine „LIV-T‟ being sold in shops other than Homeo shops. He has
also mentioned that in the past also the Plaintiff has taken action against
other persons using the word „Liv‟. He has provided the instances where the
Plaintiff has opposed against the use of the marks „Liv.up‟, „Liv-Ril‟ and
„Liv-Card‟.
CS (OS) No. 111/2006 Page 9 of 40
20\. However, during his further examination on 6 th April 1999, Mr.Jairaman
stated that he was not aware of the names being used by other companies for
selling their preparations/medicines for liver disorder and he could not admit
or deny the suggestion that other companies/firms are using the prefix „Liv‟
in the names adopted by them for selling the medicines in respect of liver
disorders. Mr. Jairaman has also admitted that there is no similarity between
the cartons, label and bottle being used by the Plaintiff for „Liv.52‟ and the
label, carton and bottle being used by the Defendant for „LIV-T‟.
21\. The next witness was Mr. Satish Doval, the retail pharmacist of Guardian
Pharmacy. He has stated himself to be in business of selling medicines,
allopathic, ayurvedic and homoeopathic for five years. He has mentioned
„Liv.52‟ as the drug sold maximum by him for liver disorders. He further
deposed that if he comes across any promotion or literature of „LIV-T‟, he
will assume that it is another product from the manufacturer of Liv.52.
22\. PW 3 was Mr. V. Vashisht, a consumer of „Liv.52‟, who was running a
garment fabrication unit in Noida. He stated that he was consuming „Liv.52‟
for last six years for liver related ailments. He further states that he has
not heard of any medicine other than „Liv.52‟ for treatment of liver related
ailments. After seeing the label „LIV-T‟, he stated that he felt it should be
by the manufacturers of „Liv.52‟ as „Liv‟ has been written on it. CS (OS) No.
111/2006 Page 10 of 40
23\. PWs 4, 5 and 6 were Mr. Deepak Ohri, Mr. Atul Sarin and Mr. Navin Dutt
respectively. They are the medical representatives of the Plaintiff who
conducted survey on the significance of the distinctiveness of "Liv". They
produced reports exhibited as Ex. PW 4/1 to PW 4/4, PW 5/1 to PW 5/4 and PW
6/1 to PW 6/2. PW 4 stated that he did not try to find out from doctors,
chemists or from journals whether there were other drugs in the market for
treatment of liver disorders.
24\. The Defendant tendered three witnesses. DW 1 Mr. Sangeet Aggarwal,
Manager-Finance & Accounts of SBL Ltd, DW 2 Mr. Rakesh Saxena, the Search
Assistant of Indmark and DW 3 Mr. Amarnath Saini, an employee of the Defendant
25\. DW 1 stated that the formulation of the Plaintiff‟s product and the
Defendant‟s product were entirely different. He pointed out that „Liv.52‟ is
sold by the chemist and even by the general merchant and no prescription from
a registered medical practitioner was required for purchasing it. „LIV- T‟ is
sold through licensed Homoeopathic drug retailer. He further stated that
homoeopathic drugs are generally sold on the prescription of the person
practising Homoeopathy. He stated that although „LIV-T‟ is not a scheduled
drug, it is sold only on prescription. He further deposed that for selling
allopathic drugs, a licence is required under Form 20A and 20B of the Schedule
to the DCA no licence is required for selling Ayurvedic drugs. He further
stated that to his knowledge there were about 100 drugs CS (OS) No. 111/2006
Page 11 of 40 in the market with prefix word „LIV‟. It was not the invented
word of the Plaintiff but a prefix traceable to the organ „Liver‟. He denied
the statement that the chemists who are selling ayurvedic and allopathic drugs
are also selling homoeopathic drugs.
26\. DW 2 was the Search Assistant of Indmark, the company that issued search
report Ex. DW 2/1 to DW 2/4. DW 3 Mr. Amarnath Saini, an employee of the
Defendant since 1988, deposed that in ayurvedic, homoeopathic and allopathic
medicines there may be more than one hundred medicines which starts with the
name „LIV‟ for liver related diseases. He also stated that homoeopathic
medicines are sold exclusively from homoeopathic shops and only a qualified
person can dispense homoeopathic medicines. He further stated that both
medicines i.e. „Liv.52‟ and „LIV-T‟ cannot be sold to a person from the same
counter. Issue wise findings
27\. Issue No.1: Whether the plaint is signed, verified and the suit is
instituted by a duly competent and authorised person? The onus to prove this
issue is on the Plaintiff. The power of attorney („PoA‟) in favour of Mr. B.L.
Kakroo to institute the suit is Ex. PW 1/F and PW1 has also spoken about it.
There is no cross-examination on this aspect. This issue is decided in favour
of the Plaintiff and against the Defendant.
28\. Issue No.2: Whether this Court has no territorial jurisdiction to CS (OS)
No. 111/2006 Page 12 of 40 entertain the present suit? (OPD).
The onus to prove this issue was on the Defendant. The Plaintiff has proved by
production of an invoice Ex.P-2 that the product LIV-T of the Defendant is
being sold at Delhi. In fact, there is no contest on this issue at all. This
issue is decided against the Defendant and in favour of the Plaintiff.
29\. Issue No.3: Whether the suit is maintainable in its present form? Under
Order XXX Rule 1, the partnership firm can sue or be sued in the name of the
firm. The record of change of the constitution of the Petitioner firm is Ex.
PW1/I. There was no cross-examination of PW-1 on this aspect. Ex.PW1/J is the
application filed before the Trade Marks Registry in Form TM-24 for recording
the additional partners as subsequent proprietors of the registered trade mark
Liv.52. The order passed by the Registrar on 29th August 1996 is Ex. PW 1/K.
It has been established that the Plaintiff has been able to discharge the onus
of showing that the suit is maintainable in its present form. The issue is
decided in favour of the Plaintiff and against the Defendant.
30\. Issue No.4: Whether there is no cause of action for institution of the
present suit? (OPD) There is a specific averment in para 14 of the plaint that
the use of the trademark LIV-T by the Defendant constitutes infringement and
gives rise to the cause of action for the suit. The defendant has not been
able to show that there is no cause of action for instituting the suit. This
issue is decided CS (OS) No. 111/2006 Page 13 of 40 against the Defendant and
in favour of the Plaintiff.
31\. Issue No.5: Whether the suit is barred by limitation? (OPD) It is averred
in para 14 of the plaint that the Plaintiff came to know of the adoption by
the Defendant of LIV-T in March 1996 and a legal notice was issued by the
Plaintiff to the Defendant on 14th March 1996. The suit was filed on 16th May
1996. The Defendant has not been able to prove that the suit is barred by
limitation. The issue is decided in favour of the Plaintiff and against the
Defendant.
32\. Issue No.6: Whether the suit is bad for non-joinder of necessary parties?
(OPD) The Defendant has failed to discharge the onus of showing that the suit
is bad for non-joinder of necessary parties. This issue is decided in favour
of the Plaintiff and against the Defendant.
33\. Issue No.7: Whether the suit is barred by principles of estoppel and
waiver? (OPD) The Defendant has not led any evidence to show that the suit is
barred by the principle of estoppel and waiver. This issue is decided in
favour of the Plaintiff and against the Defendant.
34\. Issue No.8: Whether the products of the defendant company can be sold
only through homeopathic outlets? (OPD) Elaborate arguments were advanced by
the learned counsel for the Defendant with reference to the Drugs and
Cosmetics Act, 1940 („DCA‟) CS (OS) No. 111/2006 Page 14 of 40 to demonstrate
that there was a statutory requirement that homeopathic drugs should be sold
only through authorised homeopathic outlets. While this may be correct, it is
also true that a chemist shop can be authorised to sell both allopathic and
homeopathic medicines and sometimes even the ayurvedic medicines. PW-2 has
produced invoices of such sales which have been exhibited as PW 2/1 and PW
2/2. Consequently, it is seen that ayurvedic and homeopathic drugs can indeed
be sold in the same shop side-by-side as long as the pharmacy holds licence
for both. Therefore, this issue is answered by holding that the Defendant‟s
drugs need not be sold only through homeopathic outlets but also through
chemist shops which sell all forms of medicines as long as they conform to the
requirements of the DCA and are duly licenced for that purpose.
35\. Issue No.9: Whether the Plaintiff is the proprietor of the trade mark
"Liv.52" in respect of drugs and Pharmaceuticals? (OPP) The registration
certificate Registration No. 180564 dated 10th July 1957 for the trade mark
Liv.52 has been produced by the Plaintiff and marked as PW 1/B. The
registration is valid and in terms of Section 28 of the TM Act 1958 it makes
the Plaintiff the registered proprietor of the said registered trademark.
Although the Defendant has averred in the written statement that the grant of
such registration is not valid since the mark lacks distinctiveness, the fact
remains that till date the Defendant has not raised any challenge to the
validity of the grant of registration of the trademark Liv.52 in favour of the
Plaintiff. Apart from the above, the Plaintiff has also sought to establish
its proprietary right over the trade mark Liv.52 on account of long usage.
Invoices of sales since 1972 have CS (OS) No. 111/2006 Page 15 of 40 been
exhibited as Ex. PW 1/1 to PW 1/38. Ex. PW X-1 to X-14 is the literature
pertaining to Liv.52. The evidence of PW-1 shows that Liv.52 is sold through
500 stockists throughout the country. Ex. PW 4/1 to PW 4/4, PW 5/1 to PW 5/4
and PW 6/1, PW 6/2 are the questionnaires filled by doctors from various parts
of India subscribing to the popularity, goodwill and reputation of Liv.52.
36\. The Plaintiff has also produced sales figures and promotional expenses
figures of Liv.52 as Ex. PW 1/A. In 1987, the sale of Liv.52 was Rs. 9.36
crores, the year in which the Defendant claims it began using LIV-T for its
products. In 1987-88, the promotional expenses were Rs.93 lakhs for Liv.52.
The year in which the suit was filed i.e. 1996-97 the turnover for Liv.52 was
over Rs. 35 crores and promotional expenses Rs. 3.5 crores. According to the
Plaintiff, the current annual sale for Liv.52 for 2008-09 is over 91 crores
with annual promotional expenses of Rs. 9 crores.
37\. This Court is persuaded to hold that the Plaintiff is indeed the
proprietor of the trademark Liv.52 in respect of drugs and pharmaceuticals.
The issue is answered in favour of the Plaintiff and against the Defendant.
38\. Issue No.10: Whether the use of trade mark "LIV-T" by the defendant
amounts to infringement of trade mark registration numbers 180564, 290061 and
401959 in class 5? (OPP) This is the key issue in the present suit. The
question in short is whether by using the mark LIV-T for its product which is
a homeopathic drug meant to treat liver ailments the Defendant has infringed
the registered CS (OS) No. 111/2006 Page 16 of 40 trade mark of the Plaintiff
i.e. Liv.52 which is used for the Plaintiff‟s ayurvedic drug, also used for
treating liver ailments. Plaintiff's arguments
39\. The principal submission by Mr. Hemant Singh, learned counsel for the
Plaintiff is that it is the registered proprietor of the trade mark Liv.52.
The Defendant over these years has not made any attempt at seeking
rectification of the said registration. The suit, therefore, continues to
remain one for infringement. Relying on the judgment in Kaviraj Pandit Durga
Dutt Sharma v. Navaratna Pharmaceuticals Laboratories AIR 1965 SC 980 it is
emphasised that there is a distinction between an „infringement action‟ and a
„passing off action‟. It is submitted that in an infringement action, it is
only the similarity of "essential features" of the registered trade mark that
need to be examined whereas in a passing off action notwithstanding said
similarity, the Defendant can escape liability by showing that "added matters"
to the features of similarity are sufficient to distinguish its goods.
40\. Mr.Hemant Singh submits that keeping in view the above test as laid down
in para 28 of Durga Dutt, the present case requires comparison of the two
marks Liv.52 and LIV-T for the purposes of determining "deceptive similarity".
41\. The case of the Plaintiff is that LIV-T is deceptively similar to Liv.52
on account of its "overall structural and phonetic similarity" when compared
as a whole, and when examined from the point of view of a man CS (OS) No.
111/2006 Page 17 of 40 of "average intelligence" and "imperfect recollection",
not having both drugs together for side by side comparison. Basing the
argument on Section 29 of the TM Act 1958, reliance is placed on the judgment
in Amritdhara Pharmacy v. Satyadeo Gupta AIR 1963 SC 449, Corn Products
Refining Co. v. Shangrila Food Products Ltd. AIR 1960 SC 142 and Cadila Health
Care Ltd. v. Cadila Pharma Ltd. AIR 2001 SC 1952.
42\. It is further submitted that while undertaking such comparison as a
whole, no „disclaimer‟ can be read in the prefix „LIV‟ since no disclaimer
exists on the Trade Mark Register. It is emphasized that the difference
between ayurvedic and homeopathic medicinal preparations are irrelevant for
the purposes of an infringement action since the registration of Liv.52
includes homeopathic preparations. According to the Plaintiff, allopathic,
ayurvedic and homeopathic preparations are "goods of same description" and
hence are likely to be considered as "variants of each other." Reliance is
placed on the judgment in Charak Pharmaceuticals v. Deepharma Ltd. AIR 1999
Delhi 15. It is submitted that an unwary customer could easily mistake LIV-T
to emanate from the same source as a homeopathic variant of Liv.52. Reliance
is placed on Sony Kabushiki Kaisha v. Mahaluxmi Textile Mills 2009 (41) PTC
184 (Cal.) and Lilly ICOS LLC v. Maiden Pharmaceuticals Ltd. 2009 (39) PTC 666
(Del).
43\. Mr.Hemant Singh placed extensive reliance on Cadila Health Care Ltd. to
urge that the fact that a drug is sold under prescription or only to
physicians cannot by itself be considered as sufficient protection against
confusion. According to the Plaintiff, in view of the varying infrastructure
CS (OS) No. 111/2006 Page 18 of 40 for supervision of physicians and
pharmacists and due to linguistic, urban, semi-urban and rural divide across
the country, there is a high degree of possibility of accidental negligence in
administering the wrong drug. Therefore, strict measures are required to be
put in place for preventing confusion arising from similarity of marks among
medicines. The Plaintiff urges that public interest supports a lesser degree
of proof showing confusing similarity in case of a trademark in respect of
medicinal products against non-medicinal products. According to the Plaintiff,
the question that has to be answered is "what will be the effect of use of
Liv.52 and LIV-T together in a homeopathic medicinal field." The manner in
which the business may be conducted in future is a relevant consideration.
Reliance is placed on the judgment in Laxmi Kant Patel v. Chetanbhai Shah AIR
2002 SC 275.
Defendant's Arguments
44\. Mr.Atishi Dipankar, learned counsel for the Defendant, first urges that
marks are to be categorized on a sliding scale of distinctiveness from
fanciful and arbitrary marks which enjoy a higher degree of protection to
marks that are suggestive, descriptive or comprising generic terms. The
latter, according to the Defendant, do not enjoy protection. On this scale,
„Kodak‟ will be a fanciful mark, „Apple‟ for computers will be an arbitrary
mark, „Coppertone and Whirlpool‟ for washing machines would be suggestive
marks, „Roller Blade and Weight Watchers‟ can be descriptive marks and
„Aspirin‟ would be a generic mark. It is emphasised that the prefix "LIV" is
essentially an abbreviated form of Liver which is the name of the organ the
ailments of which are sought to be treated both by the CS (OS) No. 111/2006
Page 19 of 40 Plaintiff‟s drug as well as by the Defendant‟s drug. It is a
known method of naming medicinal products. This is because both doctors and
consumers can easily relate to the drug and recognise it as treating the organ
whose name is incorporated in the name of the medicine. It is claimed that
manufacturers consistently adopt this trade practice to popularize the
medicines and to get their medicines easily identifiable by doctors and
consumers.
45\. Mr.Dipankar submits that the Plaintiff cannot claim monopoly over an
organ name i.e. Liver or its abbreviation. Although at the stage of the
interim injunction this was the stand of the Plaintiff, it has given up that
case during the final hearing and is now asserting that the marks are to be
compared as a whole and that the Plaintiff is not insisting on separating out
the prefix „LIV‟ and then asking for comparison of the marks after removing
that prefix. It is submitted that this, in any event, does not make a
difference to the case of the Defendant since even when comparing the marks as
a whole, there is no deceptive similarity.
46\. It is submitted that although according to the order of the Supreme
Court, this Court has to decide the issue independent of the judgment of the
Division Bench at the interlocutory stage in SBL v. Himalaya Drug Co. that
judgment has been followed consistently in many other judgments of this Court.
In particular, reference is made to Khandelwal Laboratories Ltd. v. FDC Ltd.
2001 PTC 864 (Delhi) where it was held that the marks „CEFI‟ and „ZIFI‟ are
not deceptively similar since they are pronounced differently and visually
appear quite different particularly when CS (OS) No. 111/2006 Page 20 of 40
pronounced in the Devanagri script and being Scheduled drugs can only be
purchased through a written prescription of a doctor or a registered medical
practitioner and dispensed by a chemist or a registered pharmacist. In Pfizer
Products Inc. v. B.L. & Co. 2002 (25) PTC 262 (Delhi), it was held that
Sidenafil Citrate is a single active ingredient chemical compound consisting
of certain elements and the drug was well known throughout the world for
treatment of angina. There was nothing new or novel about the drug. It was
held that just like in F. Hoffman v. Geoffrey Manners AIR 1970 SC 2062 the
Supreme Court had held that Dropovit and Protovit were not deceptively similar
likewise Viagra and Penegra "when taken as a whole are completely dissimilar
and cannot be slurred over in pronunciation". In Astrazeneca U.K. Ltd. v.
Orchid Chemicals & Pharmaceuticals Ltd. 2006 (32) PTC 733 (Delhi) which was
later affirmed by the Division Bench in 141 (2007) DLT 565, it was emphasised
that "nobody can claim exclusive right to use any word, abbreviation, or
acronym which has become publici juris. In the trade of drugs, it is common
practice to name a drug by the name of the organ or ailment which it treats or
the main ingredient of the drug. Such an organ ailment or ingredient being
publici juris or generic cannot be owned by anyone for use as trade mark." In
that case it was held that the two marks derived prefix „Mero‟ from the drug
„Meropenem‟ and there was no similarity between „Meromer‟ and „Meronem‟. In
Schering Corporation v. Getwell Life Sciences Pvt. Ltd. 2008 (37) PTC 487
(Delhi) which was affirmed by the Division Bench of this Court in Schering
Corporation v. Alkem Laboratories Ltd FAO (OS) 313 of 2008, again it was held
that there was no similarity between „Temodal and „Temodar‟ since the prefix
derived CS (OS) No. 111/2006 Page 21 of 40 from the name of the chemical
compound Temozolomide to arrive „Temodal‟ and „Temodar‟ on the one hand and
„Temoget‟ and „Temokem‟ on the other. Reliance is also placed on FDC Ltd. v.
Ajay G. Piramal 2008 (38) PTC 97 (Delhi) and Lowenbrau AG v. Jagpin Breweries
Ltd. 157 (2009) DLT 791.
47\. Mr.Dipankar, learned Counsel for the Defendant submitted that even prior
to the judgment of the Division Bench in SBL v. Himalaya Drug Co. the Supreme
Court and in Panacea Biotec v. Recon 1996 PTC (16) 561 this Court had
emphasized that if a manufacturer uses the name of a basic drug of which the
medicine is constituted, no monopoly can be claimed in regard to the use of
the same as a trade mark. In Biofarma v. Sanjay Medical Store 66 (1997) DLT
705 again „trivedon‟ and „flavedon‟ were said to be dissimilar. „Mexate‟ and
„Zexate‟ were found dissimilar in Cadila Laboratories Ltd. v. Dabur India
Limited 1997 PTC (17) 417.
48\. It is next submitted that as far as test of infringement is concerned,
the essential requirement is of deceptive similarity. Reliance is placed on
the observation of the Supreme Court in Ramdev Food Products Pvt. Ltd. v.
Arvind Bhai Ram Bhai Patel (2006) 8 SCC 726.
49\. It is submitted that there is no structural, phonetic and visual
similarity between the two marks. It is submitted that in the Plaintiff‟s
mark, "L" is written in capital and „iv‟ are written in small letters and
after "Liv" there CS (OS) No. 111/2006 Page 22 of 40 is a dot and after that
there is numeral „52‟. In Defendant‟s mark, "LIV" is written in Capital
letters and after "LIV" there is a hyphen and after that there is alphabet „T‟
and it is clear from the above that structurally both the marks are written in
a totally different manner. It is emphasised that a numeral is meaningless
whereas an alphabet may have a meaning and phonetically the two marks are
totally different.
Anti-dissection rule
50\. This Court proceeds to discuss the points urged. In the first place,
there can be no dispute on the test of deceptive similarity which is now well-
settled in Durga Dutt, Amritdhara and Glucovita cases. The marks indeed must
be compared as a whole for determining if there is infringement without
reading any disclaimer in any part thereof even if the similarity is in
respect of descriptive marks.
51\. The anti-dissection rule which is prevalent both in US as well as in
India is really based upon customer behaviour. It has been succinctly set out
in McCarthy on Trade Marks and Unfair Competition as under:
> "23.15 Comparing Marks: Differences Versus Similarities [1] The Anti-
> Dissection Rule [a] Compare composites as a Whole Conflicting composite
> marks are to be compared by looking at them as a whole, rather than breaking
> the marks up into their component parts for comparison. This is the "anti-
> dissection" rule. The rationale for the rule is that the commercial
> impression of a composite CS (OS) No. 111/2006 Page 23 of 40 trademark on an
> ordinary prospective buyer is created by the mark as a whole, not by its
> component parts. However, it is not a violation of the anti-dissection rule
> to view the component parts of conflicting composite marks as a preliminary
> step on the way to an ultimate determination of probable customer reaction
> to the conflicting composites as a whole.
> Thus, conflicting marks must be compared in their entireties. A mark should
> not be dissected or split up into its component parts and each part then
> compared with corresponding parts of the conflicting mark to determine the
> likelihood of confusion. It is the impression that the mark as a whole
> creates on the average reasonably prudent buyer and not the parts thereof,
> that is important. As the Supreme Court observed: "The commercial impression
> of a trademark is derived from it as a whole, not from its elements
> separated and considered in detail. For this reason it should be considered
> in its entirety."
> The anti-dissection rule is based upon a common sense observation of
> customer behavior: the typical shopper does not retain all of the individual
> details of a composite mark in his or her mind, but retains only an overall,
> general impression created by the composite as a whole. It is the overall
> impression created by the mark from the ordinary shopper‟s cursory
> observation in the marketplace that will or will not lead to a likelihood of
> confusion, not the impression created from a meticulous comparison as
> expressed in carefully weighed analysis in legal briefs.
> In litigation over the alleged similarity of marks, the CS (OS) No. 111/2006
> Page 24 of 40 owner will emphasize the similarities and the alleged
> infringer will emphasize the differences. The point is that the two marks
> should not be examined with a microscope to find the differences, for this
> is not the way the average purchaser views the marks. To the average buyer,
> the points of similarity are more important that minor points of difference.
> A court should not engage in "technical gymnastics" in an attempt to find
> some minor differences between conflicting marks. However, where there are
> both similarities and differences in the marks, there must be weighed
> against one another to see which predominate.
> The rationale of the anti-dissection rule is based upon this assumption: "An
> average purchaser does not retain all the details of a mark, but rather the
> mental impression of the mark creates in its totality. It has been held to
> be a violation of the anti-dissection rule to focus upon the "prominent"
> feature of a mark and decide likely confusion solely upon that feature,
> ignoring all other elements of the mark. Similarly, it is improper to find
> that one portion of a composite mark has no trademark significance, leading
> to a direct comparison between only that which remains."
52\. There is merit in the contention that where the trademark includes a
generic component, the manufacturers are not precluded from using as part of
their marks the said generic component. This is because the generic component
will obviously not be the distinctive portion and the dominant portion would
be dissimilar or non-generic portion. When the comparison of the marks are
taken up as a whole, the distinctive portion of the trade CS (OS) No. 111/2006
Page 25 of 40 marks i.e. non-generic component would have to be compared and
not the generic component.
53\. The following passage in McCarthy on Trademarks, IVth Edition, 2009 at
page 23-203 is significant in this respect:
> "23:49 Common "generic" element of marks If a common portion of the two
> conflicting marks is a public domain generic name, the emphasis of enquiry
> should be upon the confusing similarity of the non- generic portion, with
> the ultimate issue determined by the confusing similarity of the total
> impression of both marks. For example, the Second Circuit found that the
> trademark HIBVAX does not infringe the mark HIB- IMMUNE, both for influenza
> vaccine against a type of influenza disease named by the generic term "HIB".
> "[A] trademark infringement finding...cannot be based on the use of a
> generic or descriptive term such as „Hib.‟ The presence of a generic term
> can make little difference in comparing otherwise similar marks. For
> example, the Federal Circuit found a likelihood of confusion between
> applicant‟s JOSE GASPAR GOLD for tequila and the cited registration of
> GASPAR‟S ALE for beer and ale. The presence of the generic word "ale" in the
> cited mark did not prevent likely confusion because it was proper to accord
> such a generic term less weight in judging the similarity of the marks."
54\. Likewise, in Gilson on Trademarks the following passage is relevant
particularly with regard to pharmaceuticals products: CS (OS) No. 111/2006
Page 26 of 40
[iii] Likelihood of Confusion. Two issues set pharmaceutical cases apart when
arguing likelihood of confusion. First, is the standard for showing confusion
easier to meet in such cases? And second, who are the relevant purchasers for
a showing of confusion?
[A] Standard for Confusion with Pharmaceutical Products. Some courts have held
that, when pharmaceutical products are at issue, "any possibility‟ of
confusion should be sufficient to find infringement, reasoning that public
safety is at risk. However, this is not the standard set out in the Lanham
Act, as more recent authority notes, and courts should not follow it.
55\. It was repeatedly urged by learned counsel for the Plaintiff that the
Plaintiff is not claiming any monopoly over the word „LIV‟ and has no
objection to its use so long as the use is not deceptively similar. However,
the insistence was on the Defendant‟s not adopting the same structure "for its
mark", i.e. a component of „LIV‟ with a hyphen and an alphabet which according
to the Plaintiff is structurally similar to the component of „Liv‟ followed by
a dot and the numeral 52. The case of the Plaintiff is that there is
structural similarity in the two competing marks is on account of the
following features:
> "i. both trademarks have LIV as a stand-alone first component;
> ii. LIV is followed by a hyphen/dot;
> iii. hyphen/dot is followed by alphabet/numeral."
Comparison of marks
56\. For a better appreciation of the above submission, the Plaintiff‟s and CS
(OS) No. 111/2006 Page 27 of 40 the Defendant‟s trademarks, as depicted on
their respective bottles and cartons, are set out below:
       Plaintiff's mark                             Defendant's mark
       Plaintiff's packaging                        Defendant's packaging
       Plaintiff's mark                             Defendant's present mark
                   Plaintiff's packaging        Defendant's present packaging
    CS (OS) No. 111/2006                                      Page 28 of 40
57\. The emphasis by the Plaintiff on "LIV" as a standalone first component
militates against its principal submission that the marks are to be compared
as a whole. If "LIV" is non-distinctive, then it cannot form the basis for
comparison. If one went by the rule of „dominant/weak component‟, even then
"LIV" alone cannot be compared. The marks „Liv.52‟ and „LIV-T‟ have to be
compared as a whole. This Court is not persuaded to hold that a dot following
Liv is similar to the hyphen following LIV and the alphabet "L" followed by
"iv" in the small letters and a dot is the same as a hyphen following LIV
written in the capital letters. It must be at once observed that these marks
prominently figure on labels and cartons and, therefore, the visual impact
that these marks leave on the human eye are distinctively different. Liv
followed by a dot does not make the same impact as capital LIV followed by a
hyphen. Further, the element of similarity which is urged by the Plaintiff is
that the hyphen/dot is followed by an alphabet/numeral. This submission is
premised on an understanding that there is essentially no difference between
an alphabet and a numeral. This submission cannot be accepted when the name of
a medicinal drug is figured prominently and one has it as an essential
component of its mark and it brings out a degree of distinction. It cannot be
said that there is similarity between the use of the alphabet and the use of
the numeral.
No phonetic similarity
58\. Next is the aspect of phonetic similarity. If one were to simply speak
out the two marks Liv.52 and LIV-T clearly they do not sound phonetically
similar. Given the nature of the trade and the drugs which are CS (OS) No.
111/2006 Page 29 of 40 being sold under a mark what is likely to happen is one
of the two things. Either the name of the drug is written in a prescription
which is then read by the Pharmacist before dispensing the medicine. As
already noticed, when he reads the name of the medicine as written it is
unlikely that such pharmacist will make a mistake. What is more likely to
happen, given the popularity enjoyed by both these medicines in their
respective fields, a customer may indeed ask for either Liv.52 or LIV-T.
Phonetically, they do not sound same. There is unlikely to be any mistake in
administering Liv- T instead of Liv.52 or vice-versa. Even otherwise, given
the respective claims of the Plaintiff and the Defendant here, the two
medicines are not likely to have side effects if consumed by a person needing
treatment for a problem concerning the liver. In other words, the apprehension
expressed in Cadilla Healthcare may factually not be justified in the present
case. Ayurvedic v. Homeopathic medicine
59\. There is yet another aspect of the matter. A user of ayurvedic medicine
or of homeopathic medicine usually understands the distinction between the
two. Neither are they consumed simultaneously nor can they, given the
different kinds of regimen that is usually asked to be followed by the
practitioners of these two branches of medicine.
60\. The evidence of the patties is not unequivocal as regards the
availability of homeopathic medicines like LIV-T in a chemist‟s shop that
deals essentially with ayurvedic medicines. PW-3, in his examination-in- chief
admitted that he purchased homeopathic medicines from a shop other than the
shop from which he used to purchase Liv.52. PW-4 admitted that CS (OS) No.
111/2006 Page 30 of 40 allopathic and homeopathic medicines can be stored only
under licence. PW-2 also pleaded ignorance of any specific requirement for
keeping allopathic, homeopathic and ayurvedic medicines separately but
admitted that he was keeping them separately. He stated that he was not
selling homeopathic medicines. In fact, he did not know if there was any
medicine in homeopathy for liver diseases. He had heard of Liv.52, of LivFit
manufactured by Dabur and Livogen by Glaxo. DW-1 stated that LIV-T was sold
only on prescription and that only a person competent to deal in homeopathic
drugs can sell them. To his knowledge, there were about 100 drugs in the
market with the prefix word "LIV". He produced several cartons of such
products as well as photographs. He asserted that both Liv.52 and LIV-T could
not be sold to a person through the same counter.
61\. It is very difficult to come to the conclusion that an unwary customer
entering into a chemist shop asking for Liv.52 is likely to be deceived when
she is given LIV-T instead. When she reads "SBL‟s LIV-T" she is further
unlikely to mistake the origin of the product as that of the Plaintiff. The
evidence produced by the Plaintiff does not prove its case of either
likelihood of or actual deception or deceptive similarity. The submission that
a customer with imperfect recollection who might see both Liv.52 and LIV-T
side-by-side lying on a shelf, will mistake one for the other, or they are
produced by the same manufacturer is not backed by the evidence on record.
What is significant to note is that it is not as if as in a department store,
the customer walks around picking drugs off the shelf. There is a CS (OS) No.
111/2006 Page 31 of 40 person dispensing medicines. As pointed out by Gujarat
High Court in Cadila Healthcare Ltd. v. Swiss Pharma Pvt. Ltd. 2002 (24) PTC
708 (Guj) "chemist shops are required to have a permanent skilled and
qualified person to attend the shop, under whose supervision, all the
activities or supply of drugs would go on. This further reduces chances of any
mistake." To this, it may be added that persons dispensing medicines in a
chemist shop are usually aware of the different medicines produced by the
different pharmaceutical companies. In fact, medicines are usually stacked on
that basis. Certainly those behind the counter would make the distinction
between ayurvedic and homeopathic medicines. There being at least 100
medicines prefixed with the word „LIV‟ and used for treating liver diseases,
it cannot be accepted that the person dispensing the medicines in the
chemist‟s shop will make a mistake by supplying to the customer who asks for
an ayurvedic medicine, a homeopathic medicine and vice versa. Even assuming
that there is no written prescription and the customer orally asks for Liv.52,
the pharmacist is unlikely to hear it as LIV-T. A regular user of ayurvedic
medicines is unlikely to accept LIV-T when what he was asking for was Liv.52.
Even assuming that she is a first-time user, a cursory look at the carton or
the label on the bottle will tell her whether it is the drug she asked.
No challenge to Plaintiff's registered trademark
62\. Mr.Hemant Singh learned counsel for the Plaintiff sought to distinguish
the American cases by pointing out the differences between the Federal
Trademark Act 1946 (The Lanham Act) in the USA, the TM Act CS (OS) No.
111/2006 Page 32 of 40 1958 and the Trade Marks Act, 1954 in UK. It is
submitted that the issue of validity can be challenged by a Defendant at the
final stage of infringement proceedings in the US courts and there is no
statutory waiver against a Defendant who has not applied for cancellation.
However in India, if no cancellation proceedings are filed by a Defendant who
has taken the plea of invalidity, it leads to a waiver of such plea under
Section 111(3) of the TM Act, 1958. It is contended, therefore, that under the
Lanham Act while it will be open to the Defendant that „LIV‟ being a weak
component should be ignored, it is not open for the Defendant to raise such a
plea before the Indian Courts at the final stage of a suit, in view of the
specific bar and statutory waiver vide Section 111(3) of 1958 Act. Further it
is pointed out that under Section 37 of the Lanham Act, the Court before which
an infringement action is brought is empowered to examine the validity of a
registered trademark even at the final stage of infringement proceedings
whereas a Court in India is specifically barred by virtue of Section 125 of
the TM Act, 1999. Here it is the Intellectual Properties Appellate Board
(„IPAB‟) which will have to examine if the mark was validly registered. In the
absence of any challenge to validity, it is submitted that the trade mark
Liv.52 must be considered entitled to protection as a whole and as granting
the statutory right of "exclusive use" conferred by Section 28 "in respect of
whole of trade mark and not any part thereof."
63\. The above submission essentially concerns the question of validity of the
Plaintiff‟s mark. Even if the Court proceeds on the footing that the CS (OS)
No. 111/2006 Page 33 of 40 registration of the Plaintiff‟s mark has been
validly granted and the Plaintiff is entitled to enforce its right to use
„Liv.52‟ as a whole in terms of Section 28 of the TM Act 1958, the question
that still remains is whether the use of „LIV-T‟ by the Defendant amounts to
infringement of the Plaintiff‟s trademark „Liv.52‟. The question, therefore,
in the present case is not so much as whether on account of its trademark
containing a generic component „LIV‟, the Plaintiff‟s mark lacks
distinctiveness and, therefore, is not a valid mark. That is also not the
question raised by the Defendant at the stage of final argument. The Defendant
proceeds on the footing that the Plaintiff has a valid registration for
„Liv.52‟. Requirement of proof of "actual confusion" and not mere "likelihood
of confusion"
64\. The passages from McCarthy and Gilson as extracted hereinbefore are
relevant for the purposes of the confusion that is likely to result in the
mind of an unwary customer who goes to purchase a pharmaceutical product.
Those passages reiterate the common law principles which are generally
applicable irrespective of whether the suit in question permits or does not
permit a challenge to the validity of a mark at the final stage of an
infringement suit. At this stage, this Court would like to delve on the
question of the Plaintiff in infringement action having to prove actual
confusion and not merely a likelihood of confusion.
65\. It appears that by and large most cases covered by the Trade Mark Act are
contested intensely at the stage of interlocutory proceedings when evidence is
not complete and a decision has to be taken only on the basis of CS (OS) No.
111/2006 Page 34 of 40 the documents and affidavits placed on record at that
stage. Naturally, therefore, the Court is only considering whether by the
Defendant using the infringing trademark, there is a likelihood of confusion
and not whether there is actual confusion. In Gilson on Trade Marks (2008 Edn,
LexisNexis), while acknowledging that the Plaintiff in a trademark
infringement need prove only that confusion is likely and that the Plaintiff
need not show that actual confusion has occurred, the importance of proving
actual confusion is highlighted in the following passage at Page 5- 72:
> "[3] Relevance of Lack of Evidence of Actual Confusion Where products or
> services have co-existed in the marketplace for an extended period of time
> with no actual confusion and consumers would have reported any actual
> confusion, the factor weighs against a finding of likelihood of confusion.
> The Restatement (Third) of Unfair Competition notes that a court may infer
> that confusion is not likely "from absence of proof of actual confusion if
> the actor and the other have made significant use of their respective
> designations in the same geographic market for a substantial period of time,
> and any resulting confusion would ordinarily be manifested by provable
> facts. One of the Federal Circuit‟s du Pont factors and one of the Third
> Circuit‟s Lapp factors explicitly direct those courts to analyze the length
> of time and conditions under which there has been concurrent use of the
> marks without evidence of actual confusion. Courts reason that if there were
> any confusion between the marks at issue, it would CS (OS) No. 111/2006 Page
> 35 of 40 have manifested itself over the time the marks were used
> simultaneously in the marketplace."
66\. In the present case, the suit itself has been pending nearly for 15
years. The Defendant‟s drug is in the market for over 20 years. The
Plaintiff‟s drugs have been in the market for over 50 years. The sales of
neither drugs has diminished. Even on the Plaintiff‟s own showing, the sales
turnover in „Liv.52‟ has been progressing from year to year as also that of
„LIV-T‟. In other words, it does not appear that „LIV-T‟ has made any dent
whatsoever in the market for „Liv.52‟. If it did, the Plaintiff‟s evidence
does not show it.
67\. Gilson on Trademarks points out at page 5-73 that for proving actual
confusion "the Trademark owners alleging infringement may prove actual
confusion through direct consumer testimony, consumer surveys and anecdotal
evidence of consumer confusion." Further, it is observed that "in sum,
confusion occurs when consumers believe erroneously that the senior mark user
manufactures the junior mark user‟s product or that the senior mark user
sponsored or approved of the junior mark user‟s product. A simple mental
association with the senior mark is not sufficient to show confusion between
the marks. Where consumers contact a company and ask whether it is associated
with the alleged infringer, such question may not demonstrate the existence of
actual confusion where they indicate that consumers are aware that there is a
distinction between the companies. Further, where a consumer is merely
reminded of the Plaintiff‟s product upon seeing the defendant‟s such evidence
does not show actual confusion. CS (OS) No. 111/2006 Page 36 of 40 Courts do
not give much weight to simple inquiries about the parties‟ relationship."
68\. In the instant case, the customer surveys were sought to be relied upon
by the Plaintiff leave a close-ended question which refers to essentially the
Plaintiff‟s product instead of bringing out the aspect of confusion vis-a-vis
the Defendant‟s product. The evidence so produced does not satisfy the
requirement of showing either likelihood of confusion much less the actual
confusion. In the considered view of this Court, during the long pendency of
the case and with the trial in progress over several years during which a
number of witnesses have been examined, the Plaintiff was in a position to
prove actual confusion. This is because during these many years if there was
any likelihood of confusion, it should have been reflected in a drop of the
sales of the Plaintiff‟s drug when compared to an increase of sales of the
Defendant‟s drug. The Plaintiff should have been able to show that there is
actual confusion in the minds of the customers. As already observed, as far as
the present case is concerned, the Plaintiff has not been able to show even a
likelihood of confusion.
69\. For the aforementioned reasons, it is held that there is no visual,
phonetic or structural similarity in the two trademarks which is likely to
cause deception or confusion. On comparing the two trademarks taken as a
whole, it is not possible to hold that the use of the trademark „LIV-T‟ by the
Defendant amounts to infringement of trademark Registration Nos. CS (OS) No.
111/2006 Page 37 of 40 180564, 290061 and 401959 in Class 5. The
aforementioned issue is, therefore, decided against the Plaintiff and in
favour of the Defendant.
70\. Issue No. 11: Whether the use of trade mark "LIV-T" by the defendant
amounts to passing off the goods of the defendant as that of the plaintiff?
(OPP) The Plaintiff has not pressed the relief of passing off and, therefore,
there is no need to decide this issue.
71\. Issue No. 12: Whether the word mark "LIV" is Publici-Juris and if so, to
what effect? (OPD) The Defendant has produced the trade mark survey report to
support its plea that „LIV‟ is publici juris. The Plaintiff points out that
the said survey report does not prove the use of the mark. It relies upon para
15 of the judgment of the Supreme Court in Shangrila. Further it has been
pleaded that the Plaintiff is not required to sue every infringer and the plea
of "common to trade" is not maintainable unless the cited infringement are
proven to be substantial. Reliance is placed on the decision in National Bell
Co. v. Metal Goods Manufacturing Company AIR 1971 SC 898 at 908 and Dabur v.
Pankaj Goel 2008 (38) PTC 49. Reliance is placed on the judgment in Tarun K.
Narayanan v. S. Murali AIR 2008 SC 3261 where it was held that mere filing for
trademark registration application by a party does not give rise to any cause
of action for passing off. Further, the entries in the register are not
relevant for determining if the mark has been used by either party for long.
CS (OS) No. 111/2006 Page 38 of 40
72\. The above submissions ignore the fact that the Plaintiff itself is not
claiming monopoly in „LIV‟ and has stated that "it has no objection to it so
long that its use is not deceptively similar."
73\. As pointed out by the Defendant, „LIV‟ is really an abbreviation of Liver
which is a generic name of an organ. It is, in any event, understood as such.
There appear to be a number of drugs in the market using the prefix „LIV‟ for
their names. Notwithstanding the survey report, the evidence of the witnesses
in the present case bear this out. Many of the cartons of such marks including
the photographs have been placed on record.
74\. In the considered view of this Court, the Defendant has been able to show
that „LIV‟ is publici juris and, therefore, when the two marks Liv.52 and
LIV-T are compared, „LIV‟ will be considered as the generic and non-
distinctive part of the mark which, therefore, will have to be kept out of
comparison. The issue is, therefore, answered in favour of the Defendant and
against the Plaintiff.
75\. Issue No. 13: Whether the suit suffers from delay, laches and
acquiescence and if so, to what effect? (OPD) The Defendant has not been able
to show that the suit is barred by laches. The issue is decided against
Defendant and in favour of the Plaintiff. CS (OS) No. 111/2006 Page 39 of 40
76\. Issue No. 14: Whether the plaintiff is entitled to relief for rendition
of accounts and if so, its nature of relief? (OPP) In view of the findings of
this Court that there is no deceptive similarity in the use by the Defendant
of the trade mark „LIV-T‟ for its homeopathic medicines for treating liver
related ailments vis-à-vis the Plaintiff‟s ayurvedic medicine „Liv.52‟ the
question of the Plaintiff being entitled for relief for rendition of accounts
does not arise. The issue is decided against the Plaintiff.
77\. Issue No. 15: Relief.
For all of the aforementioned reasons, the suit is dismissed with costs of
Rs.50,000/- which will be paid by the Plaintiff to the Defendant within a
period of four weeks.
S. MURALIDHAR, J.
JUNE 3, 2010 dn/ak CS (OS) No. 111/2006 Page 40 of 40
distinctive part of the mark which, therefore, will have to be kept out of
comparison. The issue is, therefore, answered in favour of the Defendant and
against the Plaintiff.
75\. Issue No. 13: Whether the suit suffers from delay, laches and
acquiescence and if so, to what effect? (OPD) The Defendant has not been able
to show that the suit is barred by laches. The issue is decided against
Defendant and in favour of the Plaintiff. CS (OS) No. 111/2006 Page 39 of 40
76\. Issue No. 14: Whether the plaintiff is entitled to relief for rendition
of accounts and if so, its nature of relief? (OPP) In view of the findings of
this Court that there is no deceptive similarity in the use by the Defendant
of the trade mark „LIV-T‟ for its homeopathic medicines for treating liver
related ailments vis-à-vis the Plaintiff‟s ayurvedic medicine „Liv.52‟ the
question of the Plaintiff being entitled for relief for rendition of accounts
does not arise. The issue is decided against the Plaintiff.
77\. Issue No. 15: Relief.
For all of the aforementioned reasons, the suit is dismissed with costs of
                 to see the judgment?                                           No
              2.   To be referred to the reporter or not?                       Yes
              3.   Whether the judgment should be referred in the digest?       Yes
                                      JUDGMENT
03.06.2010 Introduction
1\. The Plaintiff, which is the manufacturer of an Ayurvedic medicine
"Liv.52", seeks a permanent injunction restraining infringement of its said
trademark by the Defendant which is manufacturing a Homeopathic drug "LIV-T".
2\. The case has been entirely presented and argued as a suit for
infringement. The incidental reliefs are for delivery up of all the infringing
goods and rendition of accounts by the Plaintiff.
CS (OS) No. 111/2006 Page 1 of 40 Pleadings
3\. The Plaintiff is a registered partnership firm engaged in the business of
manufacturing and marketing Ayurvedic medicinal preparations and formulations
since 1930. It claims to have gained tremendous reputation in the field of
medicine and amongst consumers through large-scale advertising, extensive
sales and innovative promotional schemes. Liv.52 is stated to be among several
well-known ayurvedic medicines manufactured and marketed by the Plaintiff.
4\. Liv.52 is a liver tonic prescribed for liver disorders. It is further
advised for promoting appetite and growth, the two biological phenomenon
distinctive part of the mark which, therefore, will have to be kept out of
comparison. The issue is, therefore, answered in favour of the Defendant and
against the Plaintiff.
75\. Issue No. 13: Whether the suit suffers from delay, laches and
acquiescence and if so, to what effect? (OPD) The Defendant has not been able
to show that the suit is barred by laches. The issue is decided against
Defendant and in favour of the Plaintiff. CS (OS) No. 111/2006 Page 39 of 40
76\. Issue No. 14: Whether the plaintiff is entitled to relief for rendition
of accounts and if so, its nature of relief? (OPP) In view of the findings of
this Court that there is no deceptive similarity in the use by the Defendant
of the trade mark „LIV-T‟ for its homeopathic medicines for treating liver
related ailments vis-à-vis the Plaintiff‟s ayurvedic medicine „Liv.52‟ the
question of the Plaintiff being entitled for relief for rendition of accounts
does not arise. The issue is decided against the Plaintiff.
77\. Issue No. 15: Relief.
For all of the aforementioned reasons, the suit is dismissed with costs of
                 to see the judgment?                                           No
              2.   To be referred to the reporter or not?                       Yes
              3.   Whether the judgment should be referred in the digest?       Yes
                                      JUDGMENT
03.06.2010 Introduction
1\. The Plaintiff, which is the manufacturer of an Ayurvedic medicine
"Liv.52", seeks a permanent injunction restraining infringement of its said
trademark by the Defendant which is manufacturing a Homeopathic drug "LIV-T".
2\. The case has been entirely presented and argued as a suit for
infringement. The incidental reliefs are for delivery up of all the infringing
goods and rendition of accounts by the Plaintiff.
CS (OS) No. 111/2006 Page 1 of 40 Pleadings
3\. The Plaintiff is a registered partnership firm engaged in the business of
manufacturing and marketing Ayurvedic medicinal preparations and formulations
since 1930. It claims to have gained tremendous reputation in the field of
medicine and amongst consumers through large-scale advertising, extensive
sales and innovative promotional schemes. Liv.52 is stated to be among several
well-known ayurvedic medicines manufactured and marketed by the Plaintiff.
4\. Liv.52 is a liver tonic prescribed for liver disorders. It is further
advised for promoting appetite and growth, the two biological phenomenon
distinctive part of the mark which, therefore, will have to be kept out of
comparison. The issue is, therefore, answered in favour of the Defendant and
against the Plaintiff.
75\. Issue No. 13: Whether the suit suffers from delay, laches and
acquiescence and if so, to what effect? (OPD) The Defendant has not been able
to show that the suit is barred by laches. The issue is decided against
Defendant and in favour of the Plaintiff. CS (OS) No. 111/2006 Page 39 of 40
76\. Issue No. 14: Whether the plaintiff is entitled to relief for rendition
of accounts and if so, its nature of relief? (OPP) In view of the findings of
this Court that there is no deceptive similarity in the use by the Defendant
of the trade mark „LIV-T‟ for its homeopathic medicines for treating liver
related ailments vis-à-vis the Plaintiff‟s ayurvedic medicine „Liv.52‟ the
question of the Plaintiff being entitled for relief for rendition of accounts
does not arise. The issue is decided against the Plaintiff.
77\. Issue No. 15: Relief.
For all of the aforementioned reasons, the suit is dismissed with costs of
                 to see the judgment?                                           No
              2.   To be referred to the reporter or not?                       Yes
              3.   Whether the judgment should be referred in the digest?       Yes
                                      JUDGMENT
03.06.2010 Introduction
1\. The Plaintiff, which is the manufacturer of an Ayurvedic medicine
"Liv.52", seeks a permanent injunction restraining infringement of its said
trademark by the Defendant which is manufacturing a Homeopathic drug "LIV-T".
2\. The case has been entirely presented and argued as a suit for
infringement. The incidental reliefs are for delivery up of all the infringing
goods and rendition of accounts by the Plaintiff.
CS (OS) No. 111/2006 Page 1 of 40 Pleadings
3\. The Plaintiff is a registered partnership firm engaged in the business of
manufacturing and marketing Ayurvedic medicinal preparations and formulations
since 1930. It claims to have gained tremendous reputation in the field of
medicine and amongst consumers through large-scale advertising, extensive
sales and innovative promotional schemes. Liv.52 is stated to be among several
well-known ayurvedic medicines manufactured and marketed by the Plaintiff.
4\. Liv.52 is a liver tonic prescribed for liver disorders. It is further
advised for promoting appetite and growth, the two biological phenomenon
directly related to liver. It is stated that the trademark "Liv.52" is a
coined mark. According to the Plaintiff, the prefix "Liv" has no dictionary
meaning or any meaning in common parlance. The said trademark is stated to
have been coined and adopted by the Plaintiff in 1955 and has been used by it
continuously and exclusively all over India since then.
5\. It is claimed that at or around the time of the filing of the present suit
in 1996, the approximate turnover for sales of „Liv.52‟ for the year 1995-96
was over Rs. 30 crores and the promotional expenditure during the same period
was Rs. 3 crores. This, according to the Plaintiff, was reflective of the
goodwill that the trademark Liv.52 commands in medical circles and in the
public. It is stated that the trademark Liv.52, apart from having inherent
distinctive part of the mark which, therefore, will have to be kept out of
comparison. The issue is, therefore, answered in favour of the Defendant and
against the Plaintiff.
75\. Issue No. 13: Whether the suit suffers from delay, laches and
acquiescence and if so, to what effect? (OPD) The Defendant has not been able
to show that the suit is barred by laches. The issue is decided against
Defendant and in favour of the Plaintiff. CS (OS) No. 111/2006 Page 39 of 40
76\. Issue No. 14: Whether the plaintiff is entitled to relief for rendition
of accounts and if so, its nature of relief? (OPP) In view of the findings of
this Court that there is no deceptive similarity in the use by the Defendant
of the trade mark „LIV-T‟ for its homeopathic medicines for treating liver
related ailments vis-à-vis the Plaintiff‟s ayurvedic medicine „Liv.52‟ the
question of the Plaintiff being entitled for relief for rendition of accounts
does not arise. The issue is decided against the Plaintiff.
77\. Issue No. 15: Relief.
For all of the aforementioned reasons, the suit is dismissed with costs of
                 to see the judgment?                                           No
              2.   To be referred to the reporter or not?                       Yes
              3.   Whether the judgment should be referred in the digest?       Yes
                                      JUDGMENT
03.06.2010 Introduction
1\. The Plaintiff, which is the manufacturer of an Ayurvedic medicine
"Liv.52", seeks a permanent injunction restraining infringement of its said
trademark by the Defendant which is manufacturing a Homeopathic drug "LIV-T".
2\. The case has been entirely presented and argued as a suit for
infringement. The incidental reliefs are for delivery up of all the infringing
goods and rendition of accounts by the Plaintiff.
CS (OS) No. 111/2006 Page 1 of 40 Pleadings
3\. The Plaintiff is a registered partnership firm engaged in the business of
manufacturing and marketing Ayurvedic medicinal preparations and formulations
since 1930. It claims to have gained tremendous reputation in the field of
medicine and amongst consumers through large-scale advertising, extensive
sales and innovative promotional schemes. Liv.52 is stated to be among several
well-known ayurvedic medicines manufactured and marketed by the Plaintiff.
4\. Liv.52 is a liver tonic prescribed for liver disorders. It is further
advised for promoting appetite and growth, the two biological phenomenon
directly related to liver. It is stated that the trademark "Liv.52" is a
coined mark. According to the Plaintiff, the prefix "Liv" has no dictionary
meaning or any meaning in common parlance. The said trademark is stated to
have been coined and adopted by the Plaintiff in 1955 and has been used by it
continuously and exclusively all over India since then.
5\. It is claimed that at or around the time of the filing of the present suit
in 1996, the approximate turnover for sales of „Liv.52‟ for the year 1995-96
was over Rs. 30 crores and the promotional expenditure during the same period
was Rs. 3 crores. This, according to the Plaintiff, was reflective of the
goodwill that the trademark Liv.52 commands in medical circles and in the
public. It is stated that the trademark Liv.52, apart from having inherent
distinctive part of the mark which, therefore, will have to be kept out of
comparison. The issue is, therefore, answered in favour of the Defendant and
against the Plaintiff.
75\. Issue No. 13: Whether the suit suffers from delay, laches and
acquiescence and if so, to what effect? (OPD) The Defendant has not been able
to show that the suit is barred by laches. The issue is decided against
Defendant and in favour of the Plaintiff. CS (OS) No. 111/2006 Page 39 of 40
76\. Issue No. 14: Whether the plaintiff is entitled to relief for rendition
of accounts and if so, its nature of relief? (OPP) In view of the findings of
this Court that there is no deceptive similarity in the use by the Defendant
of the trade mark „LIV-T‟ for its homeopathic medicines for treating liver
related ailments vis-à-vis the Plaintiff‟s ayurvedic medicine „Liv.52‟ the
question of the Plaintiff being entitled for relief for rendition of accounts
does not arise. The issue is decided against the Plaintiff.
77\. Issue No. 15: Relief.
For all of the aforementioned reasons, the suit is dismissed with costs of
