Madras High Court
Fathima Tiles vs Sudarsan Trading Co. And Anr. on 17 April, 1996
Equivalent citations: (1996) 2 MLJ 580
Author: S Subramani
JUDGMENT S.S. Subramani, J.
1\. Petitioner in O.P.No. 358 of 1982, on the file of this Court, is the
appellant. The petition was filed for rectification of the Register or removal
of the registered trademark, under Section 56 read with Section 107 of the
Trade and Merchandise Marks Act, 1958.
2\. The allegations in the petition are that the petitioner has been
manufacturing and selling tiles by using the trade mark of 'Umbrella' from
January, 1976. It has applied for registration of its Trade Mark consisting of
the device 'Umbrella' on 20.12.1980 claiming user from January, 1976 and the
same is pending consideration. It is further averred that one Messrs. Eastern
Clay Works, Sudarsan Building, Calicut had filed O.S.No. 3 of 1982 on the file
of the Additional District Court, Trichur against the appellant herein
(petitioner) for the issue of a permanent injunction restraining the
petitioner, its servants or agents from manufacturing and selling tiles with
the Trade Mark consisting of the device 'Umbrella' and other reliefs. It is
said that Messrs. Eastern Clay Works claimed themselves as lessees under
is also entitled to exercise its discretion in coming to the conclusion
whether the name is liable to be removed. For the said purpose, the Court can
rely on the long period between Ex.D-4 and the date of institution of the
proceeding. Even though more than 12 years have elapsed form the date of
execution of Ex.D-4, the appellant was not in a position to cite even one
instance to show that the customers got confused regarding the identity of the
goods. The trademark was registered in the year 1942 and till date, it remains
in the Register without any complaint. No other circumstances have been proved
or alleged by the appellant that the continuation of the name of the first
respondent in the Register of the second respondent in so far as the Trade
Mark is concerned, will amount to trafficking or that it will be against
public policy.
36\. Under the above circumstances, we do not feel that it is proper on the
part of this Court to grant the relief sought for by the appellant herein.
37\. The learned single Judge has considered both facts and law in their
proper perspective, and has rightly declined to grant the relief to the
said that Messrs. Eastern Clay Works claimed themselves as lessees under
Messrs. Sudarsan Trading Company, Calicut who are the registered proprietors
of the trade mark in respect of the tiles under No. 2763. It is further said
that the plaintiff therein has filed an application for impleading Messrs.
Sudarsan Trading Company as second plaintiff wherein it has also been said
that it has been doing business of manufacturing tiles, on lease, under the
trade mark consisting of the device 'Umbrella' from Messrs. Faroke Tile Works.
It is said that from the averments in the plaint, Messrs. Sudarsan Trading
Company has allowed the registered trade mark to be used by Messrs. Eastern
Clay Works.
3\. The following grounds have been made for the purpose of rectification of
the Register by removing the name of the first respondent from the Register.
(1) That Messrs. Sudarsan Trading Company has been guilty of improper
assignment or transmission of the registered trade mark in favour of Eastern
Clay Works, Calicut. (2) Messrs. Eastern Clay Works have not applied to the
Registry notifying their assignment in terms of Sections 41 and 44 of the
Trade and Merchandises Marks Act, 1958. (3) By parting away with the Trade
Mark rights in favour of Messrs. Eastern Clay Works, Messrs. Sudarsan Trading
Company has not been using the mark registered by them and on the ground of
non-user, the registration is liable to be cancelled in terms of Section 46 of
the Trade and Merchandise Marks Act, 1958. (4) No application has been made by
both the parties, i.e., Messrs. Sudarsan Trading Company and Messrs. Eastern
Clay Works, notifying the assignment in terms of Section 49 of the Trade and
Merchandise Marks Act, 1958. (5) Only the registered user is entitled to
maintain a suit against the petitioner (appellant herein) and inasmuch as
Messrs. Eastern Clay Works is not the registered user of the Trade Mark in
question, the petitioner, as the aggrieved person, is entitled to maintain the
petition for rectification in terms of Section 56 of the said Act. (6) The
trade mark registered in the name of the first respondent, namely, Messrs.
Sudarsan Trading Company is liable to be removed on account of dishonesty on
the party of the first respondent and in public interest.
4\. On the above allegations, it wanted cancellation or expunging the
registered trade mark with the device 'Open Umbrella' under No. 2763
registered in the name of Messrs. Sudarsan Trading Company from the Register
of the second respondent, and for consequential reliefs.
5\. A detailed counter affidavit has been filed by the first respondent,
namely, Messrs. Sudarsan Trading Company Limited, wherein it is said that it
is a company duly incorporated under the Companies Act, 1956, having its
Registered Office at Sudarsan Building, Calicut. The allegation that the
appellant had been using the device 'Umbrella' from January, 1976, is denied.
It is further said that whatever use the petitioner has made of the said
offending mark, could only have been surreptitious, sporadic, meager, with
full knowledge of the reputation and registration of the trade mark 'Umbrella'
of the first respondent and in complete disregard and violation of the rights
of the respondent No. 1. It is further said that Messrs. Eastern Clay Works
Limited is a company which is a wholly owned subsidiary of the first
respondent. It is said that Messrs. Sudarsan Trading Company has leased its
tile factory under the name and style Feroke Tile Works, to Messrs. Eastern
Clay Works Limited, by a deed executed in their behalf. It is also admitted
that in the suit filed by Messrs. Eastern Clay Works Limited before the
District Court, Trichur, it has filed an application to get the first
respondent herein impleaded as an additional party. It is also admitted by the
first respondent that it has permitted Messrs. Eastern Clay Works Limited to
use the first respondent's trade mark, and this has been done by a deed
executed between the first respondent and Messrs. Eastern Clay Works Limited.
It is further stated that even though it had permitted to use the mark, the
first respondent was always and at all times exercising its proper control and
supervision with regard to the standard and quality, specifications and the
like concerning the tiles manufactured in Feroke Tile Works. It is further
said that the tiles manufactured by Messrs. Eastern Clay Works Limited always
bore the name and style Feroke Tile Works which is nothing but one of the
manufacturing divisions of the first respondent-Company. In other words, it is
said by the first respondent that the use of the mark by Messrs. Eastern Clay
Works Limited is in effect the use of the mark by the first respondent itself.
At any rate, the use of the mark by Messrs. Eastern Clay Works Limited was
under the direct control and supervision of the first respondent. The various
grounds raised by the petitioner for removing the name of the first respondent
from the Register of the second respondent are also denied. The first
respondent asserted that there is neither assignment nor transmission of the
trade mark and, therefore, the provisions of Section 44 or Section 46 have no
application to the facts of this case. The further allegation that the first
respondent has parted away with its trade mark rights in favour of Messrs.
Eastern Clay Works Limited is untenable and baseless. They further denied the
allegation that they had not been using their registered trade mark and that,
therefore, the registration was liable to be cancelled under Section 46 of the
Act on the ground of non-user. It is further said that there is no necessity
for registering as a registered user, for, there had been no question of any
assignment or transfer of the registered trade mark or the goodwill of the
business. They further denied the averment that the appellant is an aggrieved
person coming under Section 56 of the Act, and also the allegation of
dishonesty on the part of the first respondent. It is on the basis of these
statements, the first respondent has sought for dismissal of the petition.
6\. The learned Judge, after taking oral and documentary evidence, came to the
conclusion that the appellant has not substantiated any of the allegations
made in the petition and therefore, not entitled to any relief. The learned
Judge also came to the conclusion that Messrs. Eastern Clay Works Limited is
only a subsidiary company and all the activities are controlled by the first
respondent. He also came to the conclusion that even if Messrs. Eastern Clay
Works Limited is considered to be a separate company under the Companies Act
and therefore a separate legal entity, that by itself will not be sufficient
to come to the conclusion that the first respondent-Company had not been using
the trademark. He further said that even if the two Companies are different,
the persons in control of both of them are the same, and the only point that
has to be considered is, in such a case, whether the first respondent has any
control over the activities of Messrs. Eastern Clay Works Limited. He also
said that Eastern Clay Works Limited have always borne the name of Feroke Tile
Works, which is admittedly one of the manufacturing divisions of the first
respondent-Company. On the evidence adduced before the learned Judge, it was
held that the tiles manufactured in that tile factory bearing the name Feroke
Tile Works were always supervised by the directions of the first respondent-
Company and under its immediate supervision. The learned Judge also came to
the conclusion that all the tiles manufactured in Feroke Tile Works at all
times since the first respondent became the owner of 'Umbrella' trade mark;
have always indicated the origin as Feroke Tile Works. He further held that
the arrangement between the first respondent-Company and Eastern Clay Works
Limited can only be considered as licence to use the trade mark and also the
name Feroke Tile Works. The user, i.e., Eastern Clay Works Limited has assured
that they will protect the rights and shall take such action as to safeguard
the first respondent's interest, and if they fail to do so, the user shall be
liable to compensate the proprietors for any loss. Finally, the learned Judge
held that Feroke Tile Works is an alias to Sudarsan Trading Company and
'Feroke Tile Works' appeared on all tiles, and, according, to Ex.D-5
agreement, the machinery and premises used for manufacturing tiles are that of
Feroke Tile Works, and that all invoices and all advertisements involve and
project the name of 'Feroke Tile Works', and even the bills of lading project,
it is specifically stated that the tiles were manufactured by Feroke Tile
Works. The learned Judge held that Eastern Clay Works Limited was merely
performing the ministerial work of operating the machinery while the trade
mark was used to indicate a connection in the course of trade between Feroke
Tile Works and the goods. The learned Judge also came to the conclusion that
the use of the mark can legitimately be said to be the use of the first
respondent-Company and, therefore, the charge of non-user is not tenable and,
therefore, cannot be accepted. The alternate contention of the first
respondent-Company was also accepted in full by the learned Judge by holding
that Eastern Clay Works Limited is a subsidiary of the first respondent-
Company, and the relationship of holding and subsidiary companies brings in
the inherent aspect of 'control', and that the agreements Exx.D-4 to D-6 spell
out total control by the first respondent-Company. The learned Judge further
held that the use of trade mark by Eastern Clay Works Limited can fairly be
treated as user by the first respondent company. He also held that the first
respondent-Company still maintains its association with the goods and the
first respondent has been using the trademark for export. He further held that
the ample documentary and oral evidence adduced by the first respondent stands
unrebutted, especially when there is lack of evidence on the side of the
appellant.
7\. It is against the said order of the learned Judge, this appeal is filed.
8\. Before considering the merits of the appeal, let us consider the object of
the Trade Marks Act and what are the rights of a person who gets his trade
mark registered.
9\. The object of the Trade Marks Act is to provide for registration and
better protection of trade marks and for prevention of the use of fraudulent
marks on merchandise. The Act is enacted to ensure that the registered
proprietor of mark has a monopoly right to that mark. It deals with the
precise nature of the rights which a person can acquire in respect of trade
marks, the mode of acquisition of such rights, the method of transfer of such
rights to others, nature of infringement of such rights and the remedies
available in respect of thereof. There are provisions which lay emphasis on
business integrity, legitimat trade and protection of goodwill established at
great expense against exploitation. It aims to preserve the reputation of the
trade marks built by honest use from being misappropriated by others and to
prevent deception and fraud involved in passing off one's goods as that of
another. The protection exists neither for the idea nor design nor duplication
nor physical manifestation of the goods; it only prevents others from claiming
or misrepresenting that goods or services are produced by you when they are
actually produced by them. Thus, market reputation of quality, reliability,
goodwill etc., is sought to be protected.
10\. When a person gets his trade mark registered, he acquires valuable rights
by reason of such registration. Registration of his trade mark gives him the
exclusive right to the use of the trade mark in connection with the goods in
respect of which it is registered and if there is any invasion on this right
by any other person using a mark which is the same or deceptively similar to
his trade mark, he can protect his trade mark by an action for infringement in
which he can obtain injunction, damages or an account of profit made by the
other person. The purpose of the Act is thus, to protect the interest of the
proprietors of the registered trade marks and the rights and duties created in
relation to the registration are in relation to the rights of the individual
owners. The Act does not seek to create any right in a general sense.
11\. As has been held in General Electric Co. v. The General Electric Co. Ltd.
(1972)2 All. E.R. 507 (at pages 518 and 519), the right of property in a trade
mark has special characteristics. The relevant portion of the said decision
reads thus:
The right of property in a trade mark had special characteristics. One, which
it shared with patents and with copyright, was that it was a monopoly, that is
to say, it was a right to restrain other persons from using the mark. But it
was an adjunct of the good-will of a business and incapable of separate
existence dissociated from that goodwill. To be capable of being the subject-
matter of property a trade mark had to be distinctive, that is to say, it had
to be recognisable by a purchaser of goods to which it was affixed as
indicating that they were of the same origin as other goods which bore the
same mark and whose quality had engenered goodwill. Property in a trade mark
could therefore only be acquired by public use of it as such by the proprietor
and was lost by disuse. The property was assignable, transmissible and
divisible, but only along with the goodwill of the business in which it was
used.
In the same decision, it is further said thus:
A right of property of this character calls for an accommodation between the
conflicting interests of the owner of the monopoly, of the general public as
purchasers of goods to which the trade mark is affixed and of other traders.
xxxxxx xxx The interest of the general public requires that they should not be
deceived by the trademark. It ought not to tell a lie about the goods. Two
main kinds of deception had been the subject of consideration. These were
misrepresentation (a) of the character of the goods to which the trade mark
was attached, and (b) as to their origin, i.e., that they were the product of
some other manufacturer.
12\. In this case, the appellant has sought for removal of the name of the
first respondent from the Register of the second respondent on the grounds
mentioned in paragraph 7 of the petition. Even though various grounds have
been mentioned, the only ground that survives for consideration is, ground (e)
in paragraph 7 which reads thus:
Only the registered user is entitled to maintain a suit against the petitioner
herein and inasmuch as M/s. Eastern Clay Works is not the registered user of
the Trade Mark in question, the petitioner, as the aggrieved person, is
entitled to maintain the above petition for rectification in terms of Section
56 of the Trade and Merchandise Marks Act, 1958.
13\. It has been held in American Home Products Corporation v. Mac
Laboratories Pvt. Ltd. that the burden of proof to substantiate the case of
non-user is on the person who alleges the same. The relevant portion reads
thus:
Under both these clauses the burden of providing that the facts which bring
into play Clause (a) or Clause (b), as the case may be, exists is on the
person who seeks to have the trade mark removed from the Register. Thus, where
there has been a non-user of the trade mark for a continuous period of five
years and the application for taking off the trade mark from the Register has
been filed one month after the expiry of such period, the person seeking to
have the trade mark removed from the Register has only to prove such
continuous non-user and has not to prove the lack of a bonafide intention on
the part of the registered proprietor to use the trade mark at the date of the
application for registration. Where, however, the non-user is for a period of
less than five years, the person seeking to remove the trade mark from the
Register has not only to prove non-user for the requisite period hut has also
prove that the applicant for registration of the trade mark had no bona fide
intention to use the trade mark when the application for registration was
made.
14\. The only documents that have been filed by the appellant are Exx.P-1 to
P-10. Ex.P-1, certified copy of the plaint in O.S.No. 3 of 1982, on the file
of District Judge, Trichur. Ex.P-2 is a complaint filed by the first
respondent-Company before the Chief Judicial Magistrate, Trichur, against the
appellant, for making use of its registered trade mark. Exx.P-3 to P-10 are
the Annual Reports of the first respondent-Company. Exx.P-11 and P-12 have
nothing to do with the appellant. They relate to the petition filed by another
company which was also jointly tried along with this Petition by the learned
Judge. No oral evidence was adduced by the appellant. As against the said
documentary evidence, on the side of the first respondent, Exx.D-1 to D-16
were marked and M.Os. 1 to 3 were also produced. Oral evidence was also
adduced by the first respondent by examining D.W.1, one of its Officials.
15\. One of the main contentions that has been raised by the learned Counsel
for the appellant is that on the basis of the alleged admission by the first
respondent itself, it has to be held that Messrs. Eastern Clay Works Limited
is making use of the registered trademark and it is also contended that there
is no assignment or transfer of the said trademark to Messrs. Eastern Clay
Works Limited, and at the same time, when the first respondent is not making
use of the same, an inference has to be drawn that the first respondent is not
using it for more than five years and the alleged manufacture before the
institution of the proceeding and the user of the trade mark by Messrs.
Eastern Clay Works Limited is unauthorised. It is its case that by permitting
the user by Messrs. Eastern Clay Works Limited without any transfer or
assignment of the business or its goodwill, the 1st respondent is guilty of
trafficking and, therefore, its name is liable to be removed.
16\. The said contention is answered by the first respondent stating that
originally the trade mark was registered in the name of Messrs. Madura Company
Limited and later in the name of Faroke Tile Works, Calicut, South India, and
it registered its Trade Mark under No. 2763 in Part A of the Register on
27.9.1942 in Clause 19, in respect of bricks and tiles, roofing tiles, ceiling
tiles, ventilators, skylites, all being made from clay or fire-clay materials
and thereafter the first respondent-Company purchased the entire rights of
Madura Company Limited including the trade mark. The same was also recognised
and registered from time to time, and the subsequent proprietor's name was
entered in the Registers from 23.4.1967 by virtue of a deed of assignment
dated 23.8.1968 and thereafter the trademark was also renewed from time to
time. To substantiate the same, in the typed set of papers filed by the
appellant itself, the following can be seen. The certificate of Registration
was issued only to Madura Company Limited on 29.7.1942 and thereafter its
registration was renewed for a period of 15 years from 29.7.1949. We further
find that during this period, the registered proprietor's name was altered
from Madura Company Limited, as Faroke Tile Works and thereafter the
registration was renewed for a period of seven years from 29.7.1964. We
further find that the first respondent-Company was entered as subsequent
proprietor as on 29.4.1967 and the registration was renewed for a period of
five years from 29.7.1972 and it was further renewed on 21.8.1978 and again we
find that the registration was renewed from 29.7.1985, and, on the date of the
petition for removal of the name, the said renewal was subsisting. So, one
thing that makes it clear is that from 29.7.1942 onwards, the trade mark
continued and was being renewed from time to time. The relevancy of the above
facts is to consider the scope of Section 32 of the Act wherein it is said
that the registration shall be valid in all respects unless the three grounds
in that Section are proved. Taking into consideration the provisions of
Section 32 of the Act, the learned Judge has held that the appellant has no
case under Section 32 of the Act and, therefore, he can invoke only Clause (b)
of Section 46 (1) of the Act. That part of the finding by the learned Judge
was not challenged by the learned Counsel for the appellant. Therefore, we
need consider only the scope of Section 46(1)(b) of the Act and whether the
finding of the learned Judge requires interference.
17\. In his book in 'Intellectual Property' by W.R. Cornish, at page 470, the
learned author has considered the circumstances under which the name can be
removed from the Register. The learned Author has taken into consideration the
various decisions of the English Courts for the said purpose, and said thus:
Among the earlier decisions disapproving of licensing, the most difficult is
Bowden Wire v. Bowden Brake. The House of Lords treated a trade mark licence
as inherently deceptive in leading the public cither to believe that goods
bearing the mark were its proprietor's when they were not, or that the mark
had come through use to indicate the licensee, not the proprietor. That case
must now be read in light of the Lords' decision in "GE" Trade Mark: A mark
will be expungcable for subsequent deceptiveness only if its proprietor has
been guilty of blameworthy conduct sufficient to render it disentitled to
protection in a court of justice. Possibly the Bowden case, if indeed it has
any relevance to the law under the 1938 Act, supports the following
proposition; where the proprietor of a mark permits another to use it without
retaining any power to control the products that are to bear the mark, and
there are no countervailing explanations to excuse this, the mark will become
liable to removal. This might, for instance, be so if both licensor and
licensee continued to produce similar goods under the mark without any quality
supervision by the former of the latter, or even if the owner made no real
effort to enforce a quality control agreement. On the other hand, there are
decisions upholding marks in the following circumstances, which in essence
were treated as involving no blame: allowing a retailer to use the name of the
supplier of goods on other goods during a period when the supplier was
prevented from supplying his own; and allowing a British importing agent to
use his foreign manufacturer's mark on goods which he himself made in Britain,
the intent being to keep the business alive even though imports were prevented
by the war. A fortiori it might now be said that there is nothing blameworthy
in unregistered licensing under conditions of quality control, as in the cases
already mentioned.
[Italics supplied]
18\. In M/s. J.N.N. Nichols (Vimto) Limited v. Rose and Thistle and Anr. a
Bench of that Court held that 'the use of the mark does not postulate actual
sale of the goods bearing such a mark. 'Use' can be in any form or way and
does not necessarily mean and imply actual physical sale and even mere
advertisement without having even the existence of the goods can be said to be
a use of the mark'. In paragraph 20 of the Reports, the Bench has further held
thus:
...In Halsbury's Laws of England (4th Edition; Paragraph 111) it has been
stated" whether there has been bona fide use sufficient to prevent a trade
mark from being taken off the register depends first on whether there has been
use and secondly whether that use was a bona fide. The paragraph goes on to
record that the motive necessary to constitute bona fide use is not easy to
define and it is settled that bona fide is not used in contra-distinction to
mala fide what is required is that the use must be genuine, as judged by
commercial standards, and if the primary purpose is not to trade under the
mark but merely to validate the registration, the use is not bona fide.
19\. In American Home Products Corporation v. Mac Laboratories Pvt. Ltd. , the
Supreme Court has considered the scope of Section 46 (1) of the Act and also
what is meant by trafficking under Trade Mark law. In paragraph 37 of the
judgment, their Lordships said that 'As the registration of a trade mark
confers such valuable rights upon the registered proprietor thereof, a person
cannot be permitted to register a trade mark when he has not used it in
relation to the goods in respect of which it is sought to be registered or
does not intend to use it in relation to such goods.' The reason for not
permitting such trade marks to be registered was thus stated by Romer, J. in
In re the registered Trade Marks of John Butt and Co. and In re Carter's
Application for a Trade-Mark (1898) 2 Ch. D.432, 436 : S.C. 15 R.P.C. 262,
266:
...One cannot help seeing the evils that may result from allowing trade-marks
to be registered broadcast, if I may use the expression, there being no real
intention of using them, or only an intention possibly of using them in
respect of a few articles. The inconvenience it occasions, the cost it
occasions, is very large, and beyond that I cannot help seeing that it would
lead in some cases to absolute oppression, and to persons using the position
they have obtained as registered owners of trade-marks (which are not really
bona fide trade-marks) for the purpose of trafficking in them and using them
as a weapon to obtain money from subsequent persons who may want to use bona
fide trademarks in respect of some classes in respect of which they find those
bogus trade-marks registered.
[Italics supplied as in the Original Reports]
20\. Their Lordships further accepted the definition given by Dillon, L.J. for
the word 'trafficking' which is extracted in that judgment in paragraph 38
thus:
To get a trade mark registered without any intention to use it in relation to
any goods hut merely to make money out of it by selling to other the right to
use it would be trafficking in that trade mark. In Re American Greetings
Corpn. 's Application (1983) 2 All.E.R. 609, 619 Dillon, L.J. said in the
Court of Appeal:
Trafficking in a trade mark has from the outset been one of the cardinal sins
of trade mark law. But there is no statutory definition of trafficking, and
one may suspect that, as with usury in the middle ages, though it is known to
be a deadly sin, it has become less and less clear, as economic circumstances
have developed, what the sin actually comprehends.
Trafficking must involve trading in or dealing with the trade mark for money
or money's worth but is is not all dealing with a trade mark for money that is
objectionable, since it has always been accepted that it is permissible to
sell a trademark together with the goodwill of the business in the course of
which the trade mark has been used.
[Italics supplied as in Original Reports] In the same case, Lord Brightman In
the House of Lords (1984)1 All.E.R. 426, 433 summed up the position in law
thus:
My Lords, although as a matter of ordinary English, trafficking in trade marks
might mean the buying and selling of trademarks, it seems obvious that it is
to have a more specialised meaning in a trade mark context. I have no quarrel
with the definitions suggested by the Assistant Registrar and by Sir Denys
Buckley, but perhaps one further attempt on my part may not be out of place.
The courts have to group for some means of delineating the forbidden
territory, and different modes of expression may help to indicate boundaries
which are not and cannot be marked out with absolute precision. To may mind,
trafficking in a trade mark context conveys the notion of dealing in a trade
mark primarily as a commodity in its own right and not primarily for the
purpose of identifying or promoting merchandise in which the proprietor of the
mark is interested. If there is no real trade connection between the
proprietor of the mark and the licensee or his goods, there is room for the
conclusion that the grant of the licence is a trafficking in the mark. It is a
question of fact and degree in every case whether a sufficient trade
connection exists. We have no hesitation in accepting the meaning given to the
expression "trafficking in a trade mark" by Dillon, L.J. and Lord Brightman.
21\. In this connection, it is also worthwhile to note how their Lordships
understood the scope of Section 46(1) of the Act. It was held, 'The object
underlying Section 46(1) is to prevent trafficking in trade marks. This is, in
fact, the object underlying all trade mark laws. A trade mark is meant to
distinguish the good made by one person from those made by another. A trade
mark, therefore, cannot exist in vacuo. It can only exist in connection with
the goods in relation to which it is used or intended to be used. Its object
is to indicate a connection in the course of trade between the goods and some
person having the right to use the mark either with or without any indication
of the identity of that person.
22\. The learned Counsel for the first respondent relied on Ex.D-4 to D-6 to
prove its connection with Messrs. Faroke Tile Works and also Eastern Clay
Works Limited. To substantiate this contention as to how far it is connected
in the course of trade between the goods and its relationship with those
companies, it is said that Messrs. Faroke Tile Works is only one of its
manufacturing units and Messrs. Eastern Clay Works Limited is only one of its
subsidiary companies and all its activities in the manufacture of tiles are
controlled by it. The quality control is undertaken by the first respondent-
Company by its various acts and to prove the intention behind Exx.D-4 to D-6,
D.W.1 also has been examined.
23\. The learned Counsel for the appellant contended that the oral evidence of
D.W.1 cannot be made use of interpret Ex.D-4 to D-6 and the same is barred
under Sections 91 and 92 of the Indian Evidence Act.
24\. The said contention cannot be accepted. Only that part of the evidence
which goes contrary to or varies from the terms of Ex.D-4 to D-6 cannot be
relied on under Sections 91 and 92 of the Evidence Act. If the evidence of
D.W.1 is in consonance with the terms of those documents, and it proves the
intention of the parties, that can be relied on for the purpose of proving the
real nature of the transaction. Under Section 46 of the Trade and Merchandise
Act, the 'intention' of parties at the time of executing it is relevant. As
has been held in American Home Products Corporation v. Mac Laboratories Pvt.,
Ltd. , intention is a state of mind. No person can make out the state of mind
of another person. None the less, the Courts are often called upon to
determine the state of mind of a person. Courts can only do so by deducing the
existence of a particular state of mind from the facts of a case. Section 14
of the Evidence Act was also relied on for the said purpose.
25\. When we consider the state of mind, the question as to whether the
transaction intended is allowed by law or whether it is prohibited is also
relevant. It is in this connection, we have to consider the definition of
Trade Mark' under the Act. It is defined thus:
The first legislation in India on Trade Marks was Act 5 of 1940, which adopted
in Section 2(1)(i) of the Act, the wording of the U.K. Act, 1938 reads as
follows:
Trade mark means a mark used or proposed to be used in relation to goods for
the purpose of indicating or so as to indicate a connection in the course of
trade between the goods and some person having the right either as proprietor
or as registered under, to use the mark whether with or without any indication
of the identity of that person.
The successor Act in India of 1958 (the present Act) also adopts a similar
wording in Section 2(1)(v)(ii) as follows:
"Trade Mark" means in relation to the other provisions of this Act a mark used
or proposed to be used in relation to goods for the purpose of indicating or
so as to indicate a connection in the course of trade between the goods and
some person having the right either as proprietor or as registered user to use
the mark whether with or without any indication of the identity of that person
and includes a certification trade mark registered as such under the provision
of Chapter VIII.
From the above definition it is clear that a Trade mark' is to show that the
mark indicates a connection in the course of trade between the proprietor of
the mark and the goods and the identity of the manufacturer who owns or who is
the proprietor of the mark are of no relevance. It is further clear from the
definition that if the proprietor of the mark associates himself with the
goods in the course of the production, that will be sufficient for the purpose
of the Act. In this connection, it is also relevant to consider the passages
of Dr. S. Venkateswaran on Trade Marks 1963 Edition (page Nos.37 and 309),
which are as follows:
Connection in the course of trade - The expression "connection in the course
of trade" covers a wide range, e.g. manufacturer, importer, or vendor as
wholesaler, middleman or retailer or a person who selects or handles
commercially the goods in any other way. The nature of the connection in the
course of trade is left undefined in the Act so as to include all categories,
except certification, and provide for new trading relationships as new
business methods are involved. As the goods pass on their way to the market
through successive trade hands in the course of trade they may receive a
succession of trade marks each indicative of the particular person's trade
connection with the goods. Thus, a dyer or finisher or bleacher of textile
goods may apply for registration of the trade mark even though the goods
themselves have never been his property. But the use of a mark merely in
ephemeral or purely transitory operation such as the repair of stocking or
laundering, docs not constitute trade mark use and such mark cannot,
therefore, be registered under the Act. Marks which are not used in the course
of trade, e.g. those used by Schools, private clubs, insurance companies and
members of the learned professions, or as lottery tickets, football coupons,
telegraphic and house address do not come within the statutory definition of a
trade mark. It is immaterial that the function performed by the owner of the
mark on the goods or the name of the proprietor is not known to the public....
Page 309 A trade mark gives an indication of the trade source from which the
goods come, or the trade hands through which they pass on their way to the
market. The trade connection of the person in relation to the goods may be
that of a manufacturer, or selector or vendor of goods. A salesman on
commission basis who is a selector of the goods and could reject them if they
arc of bad quality or are badly packed, could by virtue of dealing with or
offering for sale, claim proprietary rights in a trade mark, and obtain valid
registration. Again a dyer or bleacher may use a proper trade mark on goods
dyed or bleached by him provided that the process of dyeing or bleaching takes
place in the course of manufacture or finishing of the goods and before the
goods reach the market....
26\. Kerly - 12th Edition (paragraphs 2-15) has also dealt with the same
wherein the learned Author has said thus:
There is nothing in the Trade Marks Act... which requires a proprietor of a
registered trade mark to refrain from introducing modifications or variations
in the goods to which he applies his mark or in the manner in which they reach
the market. If he should find it convenient to transfer manufacture from one
locality to another or procure his supplies from sub-contractors, or arrange
for assembly of completed articles by some one of his choice in lieu of doing
it himself, these and a vast number of other possible changes in procedure are
his sole concern. His mark only becomes vulnerable in this connection if he
permits its use in a manner which is calculated to deceive or cause confusion.
It is in accordance with current business practice that an entrepreneur may do
no more than organise the putting of goods upon the market, and yet may cause
them to be marked with his mark. It is submitted that the wording of the
present Act is wide enough for that to be used of the mark by him as a trade
mark, provided that the purpose of its use is indeed to show that the goods
are his and he retains control over the use made of the mark.
2-16:
Thus a proprietor of a mark who does not himself manufacture the marked goods
not apply the mark, but who retains for himself either the power to control
the activities of the trader who actually applies the mark (as where that
trader is a subsidiary company of the proprietor), or the power to ensure
compliance with manufacturing specifications or standards of equality that he
lays down is sufficiently connected in the course of trade with the goods to
which the mark is applied to be properly registered.
The current insistence on control by the proprietor has little logic to it.
What matters is that the proprietor is willing by authorising use of his mark,
to put his reputation behind the goods. How he satisfies himself that the
goods are suitable for this should no more concern the law of trade marks,
than the worship practices of a manufacturing proprietor do....
2.17: Sale on commission A market salesman, even if he uses the mark on goods
sold on commission, could obtain a valid registration under the old Act and
could no doubt also do so under the present Act, notwithstanding that he never
actually owns the goods. Naturally though if he buys habitually from a single
source difficult questions may arise whether the mark really indicates his
goods, or those of his supplier, or those connected with both, compare the
cases on importers' marks.
2-18: Finishers, conveners, etc. Persons who execute work on goods which are
never their own property, such as dyers or finishers, often have trade marks
of their own applied to the goods before they reach the market. Under the
present Act such parties are entitled to registration of such trade marks.
Even where the owners of the mark does buy and resell the goods, the
reputation in the mark may belong to the operation performed on them and not
to the trade channels through which they are marked. In such cases,
registration as a service mark may be easier to secure; but in view of the
possible objection that such marketing of the goods is not, in relation to a
service mark, use as a service mark, it could well be sound practice to insist
upon a trade mark registration too.
27\. We may also note that while considering the scope of 'registered user',
the Supreme Court held thus in the decision reported in American Home Products
Corporation v. Mac Laboratories Pvt. Ltd. :
In our opinion, to enable the proprietor of a trade mark who has got it
registered on the ground that he intends to use the trademark to avail himself
of the fiction created by Section 48(2), he must have had in mind at the date
of his application for registration some person to whom he intends to allow
the use of the trade mark as a registered user. This would eliminate all
chances of trafficking in a trade mark. If an applicant for registration did
not have at the date of his application for registration a particular
registered user in view, he cannot be said to have had a bona fide intention
to use the trade mark and in such an event he cannot resist an application
made under Clause (a) of Section 46 (1) of the 1958 Act.
[Italics supplied].
28\. On the above said settled position of law, let us consider whether the
first respondent in this case has committed anything against the provisions of
law so as to make its name liable to he removed from the register of the
second respondent. Ex.D-4 to D-6 fully explain the same, and the other
documents also clarify the position that the first respondent is a holding
company and Eastern Clay Works Limited is only a subsidiary. Every activity is
controlled by the first respondent in the manufacture and sale of the goods
registered under the trademark. Ex.D-14 is the Memorandum and Articles of
Association of Sudarsan Clay Products Limited and the same is a Subsidiary of
Sudarsan Trading Company. From the said Exhibit, it can be seen that the first
respondent has nominated the Directors of Sudarsan Clay Products Limited, and
likewise Sudarsan Clay Products Limited is the holding Company of Eastern Clay
Works Private Limited by virtue of major share held by the former of the
shares of the latter. Various Annual Reports from 1981 onwards have been filed
in this case to establish the above fact. - vide Ex.D-12 series. It is further
seen that Ex.B-14 is the Memorandum of Articles of Association of Sudarsan
Clay Products. The name has been changed to Messrs. Sudharsan Clay and
Ceramics Limited and Certificate was issued by the Registrar of Companies,
Kerala, under Section 23 (1) of the Companies Act. The Company is also
incorporated is clear from the Certificate of Incorporation No. 2794 of 1973,
and it is a limited Company. Ex.D-14 provides for the appointment of Board of
Directors and it says that the number of Directors would be not less than
three nor exceed fifteen. Only the nominees of the Board of Directors of
Sudarsan Trading Company Limited shall be eligible to be the Directors of the
Company so long as the Company is the subsidiary of that Company. Taking into
account the provisions of Section 4 (1) of the Act, it cannot be doubted that
Messrs. Sudharsan Clay and Ceramics Limited is a subsidiary to the first
respondent-Company, and likewise, the Eastern Clay Works Limited is also a
subsidiary to the same.
29\. In this connection, we may also take note of the decision reported in
Pioneer Electronic Corporation and Anr. v. Registrar of Trade Marks (1978)
R.P.C. 716 wherein the High Court of Australia followed the decision reported
in G.E. Trade Mark case, (1969) R.P.C. 418 and held thus:
Cross, L.J., after examining the cases, concluded that the authority given by
the United States parent company in respect of the G.E. trade mark to its
United Kingdom subsidiary to use the registered mark was open to no objection
because the use by the subsidiary might fairly be considered as user by the
parent itself and because the licensing of the mark, whether registered or
not, did not deprive it of the character of a trade mark provided that the
owner of the mark retained a sufficient connection in the course of trade with
the mark and the goods bearing it.
[Italics supplied]
30\. In the matter of a Trade Mark "Radiation" 47 R.P.C. 37 it was held thus:
Now I think that I ought to treat this question as a practical one, just as I
must so treat the question of distinctiveness of a Trade Mark - See In re
Reddaway's Application (1927)44 R.P.C. 27 at page 36. If the associated
Companies here concerned, although trading separately, had been branches of a
single Company or firm, the Head Office of which controlled the branches in
the same way as the applicants controlled their associated Companies, there
is, I think, no doubt that a Trade Mark could properly be held by the Company
or firm as a whole, and I think that, treating the question as a practical
one, I ought not to say that the form or constitution of the "Radiation" group
of Companies is such as to prevent the applicants from holding a Trade Mark
which indicates the connection of the whole group of Companies with the goods
to which it is applied. The Mark "Radiation" in this case becomes in effect
the House Mark of. the whole group, in addition to which each associated
Company (or Branch) may properly use its own individual Marks.
31\. When once it is established that the Eastern Clay Works Limited is a
subsidiary to the first respondents-Company, the further question that arises
is, whether Exx.D-4 to D-6 were executed in connection with the trade and
whether the first respondent-Company retains control over the trademark. In
his oral evidence, D.W.1 has also stated that the first respondent-Company
shall always and at all times exercise proper control and supervision with
regard to standards and quality, specification and the like, concerning the
tiles manufactured in Faroke Tile Works. It is further proved in this case
that the tiles manufactured by Eastern Clay Works Limited always bore the name
'Faroke Tile Works', which is admittedly one of the manufacturing units of the
first respondent-Company. The use of the mark by Messrs. Eastern Clay Works
Limited was under the direct control and supervision of the first respondent.
32\. It is contended by the learned Counsel for the appellant that by virtue
of executing Ex.D-4, really the first respondent has assigned its rights over
the trade mark without the goodwill, and, therefore, it is entitled to get the
relief sought for. the said contention cannot be accepted for two reasons.
Ex.D-4 by itself is only one of the documents executed on the same day.
Exx.D-5 and D-6 are also parts of Ex.D-4, and all these will have to be read
together. By virtue of these documents, it is seen that the first respondent
first executed a lease of the buildings and by another document, the raw
materials, machineries and stock-in-trade were also leased to the subsidiary
company, and along with the same, Ex.D-4 is also executed. In Ex.D-4, it is
specifically provided that the user of the trademark will be permitted only so
long as the lease of the machinery and the building continues. So, by reading
the entire documents together, it is clear that it is along with the business,
the trade mark is also allowed to be used and Ex.D-4 by itself has no legs to
stand. Even if we read Ex.D-4 separately from the other documents, it cannot
be said that the first respondent-Company has acted against the provisions of
the Act and that it has the intention to make use of the trade mark. If we
read Ex.D-4 alone, it is clear that what is permitted is only in the nature of
licence. In M/s. Gujarat Bottling Co. Ltd and Ors. v. The Coco Cola Co. and
Ors. their Lordships of the Supreme Court considered a similar question and
held that a registered proprietor is not prevented from giving a licence to
third person. The relevant portion of the said decision reads thus:
...The use of the trade mark can also be permitted de hors the provisions of
the Act by grant of licence by the registered proprietor to the proposed user,
Such a licence is governed by common law. Such licensing of trade mark is
permissible provided (i) the licensing does not result in causing confusion or
deception among the public; (ii) it does not destroy the distinctiveness of
the trade mark, that is to say, the trade mark, before the public eye,
continues to distinguish the goods connected with the proprietor of the mark
from those connected with others; and (iii) a connection in the course of
trade consistent with the definition of trade mark continues to exist between
the goods and the proprietor of the mark.
[Italics supplied] If that be so, even if we read Ex.D-4 separately from
Exx.D-5 and D6, it cannot be said that the first respondent has acted in such
a way as to entitle the appellant to get relief in this case. Even if the
first respondent has given a licence de hors the provisions of the Act, if the
three conditions mentioned in the decision of the Supreme Court M/s. Gujarat
Bottling Co. Ltd v. The Coca Cola Co. , are not satisfied, the appellant will
not be entitled to get a relief.
33\. A reading of Ex.D-5 and D-6 will show that Messrs. Eastern Clay Works
Limited have assured that they shall protect the rights and shall take such
action as may be necessary to safeguard the first respondent's interest. If
further shows that a document was executed pursuant to a general body meeting
of the company wherein it was decided to lease the business Faroke Tile Works
Limited became the custodian of the said assets. The first respondent has
retained its right to inspect the stock of raw materials, stores and spare
parts handed over to the manufacturer at any time during the working hours. It
also has retained the right to terminate the contract during the period of
lease without assigning any reason whatsoever, and Messrs. Eastern Clay Works
Limited is duty-bound to return such machineries to the first respondent
forthwith. The said clause read along with Ex.D-4 shows that the right to use
the trade mark shall run concurrently with the lease of the building and
machinery. In Ex.D-6, the parties have described themselves as owner and
manufacturer. The first respondent declares himself as the owner and Messrs.
Eastern Clay Works Limited has described itself as the manufacturer.
34\. It is further clear from the various advertisement and invoices, namely,
Exx.D-13 and D-11 that the first respondent is still making use of the trade
mark Faroke Tile Works as only one of its manufacturing units and Messrs.
Eastern Clay Works Limited is only making us of the same for the purpose of
the first respondent, under its guidance.
35\. While we consider the application for rectification or removal, the court
is also entitled to exercise its discretion in coming to the conclusion
whether the name is liable to be removed. For the said purpose, the Court can
rely on the long period between Ex.D-4 and the date of institution of the
proceeding. Even though more than 12 years have elapsed form the date of
execution of Ex.D-4, the appellant was not in a position to cite even one
instance to show that the customers got confused regarding the identity of the
goods. The trademark was registered in the year 1942 and till date, it remains
in the Register without any complaint. No other circumstances have been proved
or alleged by the appellant that the continuation of the name of the first
respondent in the Register of the second respondent in so far as the Trade
Mark is concerned, will amount to trafficking or that it will be against
public policy.
36\. Under the above circumstances, we do not feel that it is proper on the
part of this Court to grant the relief sought for by the appellant herein.
37\. The learned single Judge has considered both facts and law in their
proper perspective, and has rightly declined to grant the relief to the
petitioner, appellant herein. We do not find any ground to interfere with the
order of the learned single Judge.
38\. In the result, the order of the learned single Judge is confirmed. This
O.S. appeal is dismissed with costs.
is also entitled to exercise its discretion in coming to the conclusion
whether the name is liable to be removed. For the said purpose, the Court can
rely on the long period between Ex.D-4 and the date of institution of the
proceeding. Even though more than 12 years have elapsed form the date of
execution of Ex.D-4, the appellant was not in a position to cite even one
instance to show that the customers got confused regarding the identity of the
goods. The trademark was registered in the year 1942 and till date, it remains
in the Register without any complaint. No other circumstances have been proved
or alleged by the appellant that the continuation of the name of the first
respondent in the Register of the second respondent in so far as the Trade
Mark is concerned, will amount to trafficking or that it will be against
public policy.
36\. Under the above circumstances, we do not feel that it is proper on the
part of this Court to grant the relief sought for by the appellant herein.
37\. The learned single Judge has considered both facts and law in their
proper perspective, and has rightly declined to grant the relief to the
said that Messrs. Eastern Clay Works claimed themselves as lessees under
Messrs. Sudarsan Trading Company, Calicut who are the registered proprietors
of the trade mark in respect of the tiles under No. 2763. It is further said
that the plaintiff therein has filed an application for impleading Messrs.
Sudarsan Trading Company as second plaintiff wherein it has also been said
that it has been doing business of manufacturing tiles, on lease, under the
trade mark consisting of the device 'Umbrella' from Messrs. Faroke Tile Works.
It is said that from the averments in the plaint, Messrs. Sudarsan Trading
Company has allowed the registered trade mark to be used by Messrs. Eastern
Clay Works.
3\. The following grounds have been made for the purpose of rectification of
the Register by removing the name of the first respondent from the Register.
(1) That Messrs. Sudarsan Trading Company has been guilty of improper
assignment or transmission of the registered trade mark in favour of Eastern
Clay Works, Calicut. (2) Messrs. Eastern Clay Works have not applied to the
Registry notifying their assignment in terms of Sections 41 and 44 of the
Trade and Merchandises Marks Act, 1958. (3) By parting away with the Trade
Mark rights in favour of Messrs. Eastern Clay Works, Messrs. Sudarsan Trading
Company has not been using the mark registered by them and on the ground of
non-user, the registration is liable to be cancelled in terms of Section 46 of
is also entitled to exercise its discretion in coming to the conclusion
whether the name is liable to be removed. For the said purpose, the Court can
rely on the long period between Ex.D-4 and the date of institution of the
proceeding. Even though more than 12 years have elapsed form the date of
execution of Ex.D-4, the appellant was not in a position to cite even one
instance to show that the customers got confused regarding the identity of the
goods. The trademark was registered in the year 1942 and till date, it remains
in the Register without any complaint. No other circumstances have been proved
or alleged by the appellant that the continuation of the name of the first
respondent in the Register of the second respondent in so far as the Trade
Mark is concerned, will amount to trafficking or that it will be against
public policy.
36\. Under the above circumstances, we do not feel that it is proper on the
part of this Court to grant the relief sought for by the appellant herein.
37\. The learned single Judge has considered both facts and law in their
proper perspective, and has rightly declined to grant the relief to the
said that Messrs. Eastern Clay Works claimed themselves as lessees under
Messrs. Sudarsan Trading Company, Calicut who are the registered proprietors
of the trade mark in respect of the tiles under No. 2763. It is further said
that the plaintiff therein has filed an application for impleading Messrs.
Sudarsan Trading Company as second plaintiff wherein it has also been said
that it has been doing business of manufacturing tiles, on lease, under the
trade mark consisting of the device 'Umbrella' from Messrs. Faroke Tile Works.
It is said that from the averments in the plaint, Messrs. Sudarsan Trading
Company has allowed the registered trade mark to be used by Messrs. Eastern
Clay Works.
3\. The following grounds have been made for the purpose of rectification of
the Register by removing the name of the first respondent from the Register.
(1) That Messrs. Sudarsan Trading Company has been guilty of improper
assignment or transmission of the registered trade mark in favour of Eastern
Clay Works, Calicut. (2) Messrs. Eastern Clay Works have not applied to the
Registry notifying their assignment in terms of Sections 41 and 44 of the
Trade and Merchandises Marks Act, 1958. (3) By parting away with the Trade
Mark rights in favour of Messrs. Eastern Clay Works, Messrs. Sudarsan Trading
Company has not been using the mark registered by them and on the ground of
non-user, the registration is liable to be cancelled in terms of Section 46 of
is also entitled to exercise its discretion in coming to the conclusion
whether the name is liable to be removed. For the said purpose, the Court can
rely on the long period between Ex.D-4 and the date of institution of the
proceeding. Even though more than 12 years have elapsed form the date of
execution of Ex.D-4, the appellant was not in a position to cite even one
instance to show that the customers got confused regarding the identity of the
goods. The trademark was registered in the year 1942 and till date, it remains
in the Register without any complaint. No other circumstances have been proved
or alleged by the appellant that the continuation of the name of the first
respondent in the Register of the second respondent in so far as the Trade
Mark is concerned, will amount to trafficking or that it will be against
public policy.
36\. Under the above circumstances, we do not feel that it is proper on the
part of this Court to grant the relief sought for by the appellant herein.
37\. The learned single Judge has considered both facts and law in their
proper perspective, and has rightly declined to grant the relief to the
said that Messrs. Eastern Clay Works claimed themselves as lessees under
Messrs. Sudarsan Trading Company, Calicut who are the registered proprietors
of the trade mark in respect of the tiles under No. 2763. It is further said
that the plaintiff therein has filed an application for impleading Messrs.
Sudarsan Trading Company as second plaintiff wherein it has also been said
that it has been doing business of manufacturing tiles, on lease, under the
trade mark consisting of the device 'Umbrella' from Messrs. Faroke Tile Works.
It is said that from the averments in the plaint, Messrs. Sudarsan Trading
Company has allowed the registered trade mark to be used by Messrs. Eastern
Clay Works.
3\. The following grounds have been made for the purpose of rectification of
the Register by removing the name of the first respondent from the Register.
(1) That Messrs. Sudarsan Trading Company has been guilty of improper
assignment or transmission of the registered trade mark in favour of Eastern
Clay Works, Calicut. (2) Messrs. Eastern Clay Works have not applied to the
Registry notifying their assignment in terms of Sections 41 and 44 of the
Trade and Merchandises Marks Act, 1958. (3) By parting away with the Trade
Mark rights in favour of Messrs. Eastern Clay Works, Messrs. Sudarsan Trading
Company has not been using the mark registered by them and on the ground of
non-user, the registration is liable to be cancelled in terms of Section 46 of
the Trade and Merchandise Marks Act, 1958. (4) No application has been made by
both the parties, i.e., Messrs. Sudarsan Trading Company and Messrs. Eastern
Clay Works, notifying the assignment in terms of Section 49 of the Trade and
Merchandise Marks Act, 1958. (5) Only the registered user is entitled to
maintain a suit against the petitioner (appellant herein) and inasmuch as
Messrs. Eastern Clay Works is not the registered user of the Trade Mark in
question, the petitioner, as the aggrieved person, is entitled to maintain the
petition for rectification in terms of Section 56 of the said Act. (6) The
trade mark registered in the name of the first respondent, namely, Messrs.
Sudarsan Trading Company is liable to be removed on account of dishonesty on
the party of the first respondent and in public interest.
is also entitled to exercise its discretion in coming to the conclusion
whether the name is liable to be removed. For the said purpose, the Court can
rely on the long period between Ex.D-4 and the date of institution of the
proceeding. Even though more than 12 years have elapsed form the date of
execution of Ex.D-4, the appellant was not in a position to cite even one
instance to show that the customers got confused regarding the identity of the
goods. The trademark was registered in the year 1942 and till date, it remains
in the Register without any complaint. No other circumstances have been proved
or alleged by the appellant that the continuation of the name of the first
respondent in the Register of the second respondent in so far as the Trade
Mark is concerned, will amount to trafficking or that it will be against
public policy.
36\. Under the above circumstances, we do not feel that it is proper on the
part of this Court to grant the relief sought for by the appellant herein.
37\. The learned single Judge has considered both facts and law in their
proper perspective, and has rightly declined to grant the relief to the
said that Messrs. Eastern Clay Works claimed themselves as lessees under
Messrs. Sudarsan Trading Company, Calicut who are the registered proprietors
of the trade mark in respect of the tiles under No. 2763. It is further said
that the plaintiff therein has filed an application for impleading Messrs.
Sudarsan Trading Company as second plaintiff wherein it has also been said
that it has been doing business of manufacturing tiles, on lease, under the
trade mark consisting of the device 'Umbrella' from Messrs. Faroke Tile Works.
It is said that from the averments in the plaint, Messrs. Sudarsan Trading
Company has allowed the registered trade mark to be used by Messrs. Eastern
Clay Works.
3\. The following grounds have been made for the purpose of rectification of
the Register by removing the name of the first respondent from the Register.
(1) That Messrs. Sudarsan Trading Company has been guilty of improper
assignment or transmission of the registered trade mark in favour of Eastern
Clay Works, Calicut. (2) Messrs. Eastern Clay Works have not applied to the
Registry notifying their assignment in terms of Sections 41 and 44 of the
Trade and Merchandises Marks Act, 1958. (3) By parting away with the Trade
Mark rights in favour of Messrs. Eastern Clay Works, Messrs. Sudarsan Trading
Company has not been using the mark registered by them and on the ground of
non-user, the registration is liable to be cancelled in terms of Section 46 of
the Trade and Merchandise Marks Act, 1958. (4) No application has been made by
both the parties, i.e., Messrs. Sudarsan Trading Company and Messrs. Eastern
Clay Works, notifying the assignment in terms of Section 49 of the Trade and
Merchandise Marks Act, 1958. (5) Only the registered user is entitled to
maintain a suit against the petitioner (appellant herein) and inasmuch as
Messrs. Eastern Clay Works is not the registered user of the Trade Mark in
question, the petitioner, as the aggrieved person, is entitled to maintain the
petition for rectification in terms of Section 56 of the said Act. (6) The
trade mark registered in the name of the first respondent, namely, Messrs.
Sudarsan Trading Company is liable to be removed on account of dishonesty on
the party of the first respondent and in public interest.
is also entitled to exercise its discretion in coming to the conclusion
whether the name is liable to be removed. For the said purpose, the Court can
rely on the long period between Ex.D-4 and the date of institution of the
proceeding. Even though more than 12 years have elapsed form the date of
execution of Ex.D-4, the appellant was not in a position to cite even one
instance to show that the customers got confused regarding the identity of the
goods. The trademark was registered in the year 1942 and till date, it remains
in the Register without any complaint. No other circumstances have been proved
or alleged by the appellant that the continuation of the name of the first
respondent in the Register of the second respondent in so far as the Trade
Mark is concerned, will amount to trafficking or that it will be against
public policy.
36\. Under the above circumstances, we do not feel that it is proper on the
part of this Court to grant the relief sought for by the appellant herein.
37\. The learned single Judge has considered both facts and law in their
proper perspective, and has rightly declined to grant the relief to the
