Allahabad High Court
S.K. Dutt vs Law Book Co. And Ors. on 8 December, 1953
Equivalent citations: AIR 1954 All 570
Author: B Mukerji
Bench: B Mukerji
JUDGMENT B. Mukerji, J.
1\. Sri S.K. Dutt, an advocate practising in this Court, has filed this suit
purporting to be one under Section 13, Copyright Act, 1914. The plaintiff
alleges that he is the author and sole owner of the copyright in the work
entitled "The Indian Partnership Act by Mukerji and Dutt". This work, the
plaintiff alleges, he published in the year 1934 in collaboration with Sir
Manmotho Nath Mukerji, an ex-Chief Justice of the High Court at Calcutta and
an ex-Law Member of the Government of India.
The plaintiff further alleges that the aforementioned book--the Law of
Partnership in India--has earned a great reputation and it has had sales in
the United States of America, in England and practically throughout this
country. The plaintiff's case further is that defendant No. 2, namely, J.N.
Bagga, published a work entitled "Law Book Company's Commentaries of Law &
Practice of Partnership & Private Companies in India" in the year 1947. This
rival publication, according to the plaintiff, contained numerous passages
work.
46\. Many other matters were argued on behalf of the plaintiff, but I consider
a reference to these unnecessary for, in my judgment, they were not really
pertinent to the main issues which called for determination.
47\. The plaintiff having failed to establish any infringement of his
copyright, no question of granting any relief to the plaintiff could arise. It
may here be noted, however, that there was on behalf of the plaintiff, no
evidence to indicate what damage, if any, accrued to him, assuming that there
was an infringement of his copyright by the defendants.
48\. Before, I come to the operative part of my judgment I should like to
state that the trial of this case took a long time and that a good deal of the
time could have been saved if the plaintiff had followed some proper sequence
and had not chosen to digress into unnecessary and unimportant things. The
plaintiff resorted to many a delaying tactics to which I had occasion to refer
in my order dated 2-11-1953. I also think it proper at this stage to
acknowledge the assistance that I got from Sri Jagdish Swarup who very fairly
rival publication, according to the plaintiff, contained numerous passages
which had been pirated from the plaintiff's work. The said rival publication
purports to be written by K.L. Gauba, Barrister-at-law, defendant No. 3, H.D.
Suri, B.A.,LL.B., defendant No. 5, and S.K. lyer, B.A..B.L., defendant No. 4;
the Law Book Company defendant No. 1, are the publishers of this work while
defendant No. 2 is said to have had the book published for defendant No. 1,
that is the Law Book Company. This book was published by the Law Book Company
when it existed at Lahore. It may be noticed that the present location of this
Company is at Allahabad.
2\. The plaintiff's case further is that the defendants wrongfully infringed
his copyright and that they did not refrain from discontinuing the sale of the
infringed book even after notice had been served on them calling upon them to
desist from such unlawful activity.
3\. The plaintiff alleges that he got knowledge of his copyright having been
infringed by the rival publication sometime in July 1948. By the suit the
plaintiff has claimed the following reliefs:
(a) That an account of the profits be rendered or in the alternative damages
be awarded to him--the plaintiff has tentatively valued this relief at Rs.
1,200/-.
(b) That an order for the delivering up of all the copies of the rival
publication or such part or parts thereof as may be found to infringe the
copyright "of the plaintiff's publication be made and that such of the
infringing copies as are in the possession, custody or control of the
defendants, their servants or agents, together with any plate, block or blocks
of such infringing work be ordered to be delivered up to the plaintiff--this
relief the plaintiff values tentatively at Rs. 200 /-.
(c) That a permanent injunction restraining the defendants, their agents or
servants from continuing or repeating further or doing any act or acts to
infringe or injure the plaintiff's copyright be granted--this relief the
plaintiff values at Rs, 100/-.
(d) That costs of this suit and such other relief as the Court may deem fit be
allowed.
4\. The suit was contested by defendants 1 and 2 only and they filed a joint
written statement. By this written statement the defendants did not admit the
allegation of the plaintiff that he was the sole author of the book or that he
had a copyright in the same. The defendants denied that their book was
published in 1947 for they said that it was published in 1946. The defendants
also denied having infringed any copyright that may subsist in favour of the
plaintiff in the book entitled "The Indian Partnership Act".
The defendants further alleged that their book contained much more material
than was contained in the plaintiff's work. The defendants further denied that
their publication contained numerous passages which could be said to have been
pirated from the plaintiff's book. The defendants alleged in paragraph 14 of
their written statement that their publication had a very good sale from the
time of its publication and that when the plaintiff learnt that they wished to
bring out a second edition he filed this suit in order to obstruct them from
making profits out of the subsequent edition of the book which they
contemplated publishing.
5\. This suit was filed on 6-12-1949, and its hearing was delayed for several
reasons, the main reason being, as I can see from the order sheets, that the
plaintiff made numerous applications, many of them unsubstantial, and that
these applications had to be decided before the case could finally be fixed
for hearing.
6\. This case was fixed for the settlement of issues for 23-9-1952, and issues
were settled on that date. The following issues were struck in the case by a
Bench of this Court of which I too was a member:
"1. Has the plaintiff got the sole copyright in the book entitled 'Indian
Partnership Act' by Mu-kerji and Dutt and if so, to what extent?
2\. Have the defendants infringed the copyright of the plaintiff in his book
and if so, to what extent?
3\. Are the defendants liable for rendition of accounts?
4\. Are the defendants liable for delivering up to the plaintiff all copies of
their book?
5\. To what damages, if any, is the plaintiff entitled and from which of the
defendants?"
7\. An order was made on the same date that the suit as against defendants 3
to 5 was to proceed 'ex parte', inasmuch as, those defendants did not enter
appearance.
In his statement under Order 10, Rule 2, C. P. C., the plaintiff stated that
his copyright had been infringed in. "arrangement and in copying passages"
from his book. He further stated that there had been an infringement of his
copyright because the defendants had adopted his passages and had at some
places used the same composition. The plaintiff was called upon by the Court,
on an application made by the defendants, by an order dated 19-11-1951, to
give particulars of such passage as according to him, had been pirated by the
defendants from his book. The plaintiff was granted three weeks' time for this
purpose.
On 7-12-1951, the plaintiff filed a chart of sorts along with an application.
This chart is paper No. A28/2 of the record and a perusal of it will show that
it is a perfectly useless chart, for from this it is impossible to discover
what was meant to be conveyed or illustrated. The plaintiff marked a large
number of passages in his book which is Ex. 1 and in the defendants' book
which is Ex. 2 to indicate piracies. These passages, according to the
plaintiffs testimony, number 797.
8\. A large number of applications were filed for eliciting further
particulars by the plaintiff. Orders in regard to these are to be found either
on the order sheet or on the applications themselves. Many of these
particulars which were discovered on appropriate affidavit were not at all
utilized by the plaintiff for the purposes of the case during the course of
the hearing. They only helped in delaying the hearing of the suit and in
swelling the costs of the cause.
9\. The hearing of the suit was fixed for 28-9-1953, and the case was called
for hearing before me on that date. The plaintiff made a request for the
adjournment of the case on the ground that he was not ready to proceed with
the case. The motion for adjournment was opposed on behalf of the defendants
and was disallowed by me because no adequate reason for adjournment was given
by the plaintiff.
The plaintiff then entered the witness-box and examined himself and was
thereafter cross-examined, at length, by Sri Jagdish Swarup appearing on
behalf of the contesting defendants. In his statement the plaintiff said that
every bit of his book, save the introduction and a little revision here and
there, by Sir M.N. Mukerji, was his composition. The plaintiff further stated
that he claimed a copyright in those passages also which he had quoted either
from other text book writers or from decided cases. The plaintiff said that he
claimed copyright in quotations or selections because he had made changes in
them. A question was put to him by me in these words:
"Have you indicated in your book that you have made alterations of your own in
the passages which you have quoted and which on a perusal of the book appear
to be from other sources than your own?"
To this the plaintiff answered as follows:
"By intelligent perusal of the book it will appear to anyone that there is
difference between my selection and the original."
He was further asked as to what he meant by "intelligent perusal" and he
answered thus;
"By a reference to the original."
He was further asked:
"Is there anything on the face of those quotations to indicate that you have
modified or altered those quotations?"
The plaintiff answered thus:
"At some places there is, but mostly not." The plaintiff was asked by me to
indicate his point by one example. In answer he referred to page 208, note
(a). To me this example did not illustrate what I wished him to illustrate. I,
therefore, put him the following question: "I have looked at page 208, note
(a), but I do not find any indication in it of what I asked you. Will you
please explain?"
To this the plaintiff returned the following answer:
"Please refer to line 3 of the quotation and refer to the two words in
'present Clause (i)' which have been put in by me in square brackets there."
This answer did not, in my opinion, meet the point which I wished the
plaintiff to clarify. In his evidence the plaintiff indicated the extent of
the infringement of his copyright by saying this:
"I find that 797 passages have been infringed by way of copying and this
includes 22 quotations, 9 appendices and 8 rules made under the Indian
Partnership Act by the various Governments."
The plaintiff in his evidence felt satisfied by saying the above only in
regard to his proof of the infringement of his copyright by the defendants.
10\. The Court found considerable difficulty in assessing whether or not there
were infringing passages in the defendants' book--passages which in substance
were infringements of the plaintiff's work and not passages which the
plaintiff and the defendants could have borrowed from other works or from
decided cases. It was to obviate this difficulty that the plaintiff had been
ordered, long back, to file a chart indicating the various alleged
infringements classifying them under appropriate heads. He was called upon to
do this by an order of a Bench dated 22-9-1952.
While in the witness-box I asked him the following question in order to make
certain whether or not the chart which he was called upon to file in Court had
been filed by him:
"Did you file a chart as was required by the Court by its order dated
September 22, 1952?"
The plaintiff made the following answer;
"No, I did not file the chart because I thought, that the Bench before which
the case went after the order dated September 22, 1952, would not want such a
chart,"
This answer clearly indicates, to my mind, the mentality which guided the
plaintiff throughout the proceedings of this suit. Counsel for the defendants
was, therefore, faced with the unenviable task of facing the plaintiff during
cross-examination with every passage, and the total of such passages according
to the plaintiff's computation was 797, which had been marked by the plaintiff
in the two books Exs. 1 and 2, and asking him questions to demonstrate that
there was no infringement. By far the largest number of these passages had
been taken by the plaintiff himself from either standard commentaries on the
law of partnership or from the statement of the law as found in Halsbury's
Laws of England or from decided cases. If counsel for the defendants had been
permitted to take all the passages one by one to show that the defendants did
not take them from the plaintiff's book but from some other source which was
open to them then the case would have dragged on for months and months.
In order, therefore, to cut down the time of the Court and save parties' costs
I called upon the parties to address me on the question whether the
plaintiff's claim that once he quoted a passage in his book from either a
decided case or a standard work then no one else had any right again to quote
that passage was or was not correct. I heard arguments on this question on
29-9-1953, and after hearing arguments I decided that the proposition which
was enunciated by the plaintiff was not a correct proposition. I refrained
from giving all my reasons in my order of 29-9 1953, because I wished to
incorporate the reasons which impelled me to come to that conclusion -then in
this judgment.
11\. If what the plaintiff contended for was right then the defence of "common
source" could never be available to anyone. The plaintiff based his contention
on the ground that by quoting a passage from a decision or from another work
he was in effect "selecting" the passage and since the copyright law protects
selection he was protected and nobody else could thereafter make the same
selection. I do not think the plaintiff was right in this contention of his.
As I understand the law which protects selections I understand it to mean that
only those selections are protected which the plaintiff makes for purposes of
incorporating them in a "book of selections". It does not protect a selection
which the plaintiff makes for purposes of explaining a legal or a scientific
proposition that he has to explain while writing a commentary for the other
man who after the plaintiff writes a commentary on that subject must, 'per
necessity' have to make the same selection.
Decisions reported in law reports are 'common property' for commentators on
the law, and they must per necessity have to have recourse to them because
without reference to them no commentator can give to his readers a correct
idea of the law.
Counsel for the defendants drew my attention to several other commentaries on
the law of partnership to show that the same selection of cases had been made
by the respective authors of those books.
Reliance was placed by the plaintiff on the case of Macmillan and Co., Ltd- v.
K. & J. Cooper' AIR 1924 PC 75 (A). It was contended on the authority of this
case that an author gets a copyright if he makes a selection of passages from
the Works of others. I do not consider that this case on which the plaintiff
relies supports any such general proposition. Their Lordships pointed out that
the mere process of selecting passages from works readily accessible to the
public is- net protected, but what is protected is a selection that manifests
skill sufficient to give the selection the character of an original literary
work.
Their Lordships further pointed out that the precise amount of the knowledge,
labour, judgment or literary skill or taste which the author of any book or
other compilation must bestow upon its composition in order to acquire
copyright in it, within the meaning of Copyright Act of 191l, cannot be
defined in precise terms "In every case" their Lordships pointed out "it must
depend largely on the special facts of that case and in each case be very much
a question of degree."
I may here refer to the law in regard to this matter as stated in Corpus Juris
Secundurn, Volume 18, at 228, under the head "Law Books" This is what is
stated there: "Law Books of all kinds belong broadly to the class of
compilations, and on a question of infringement the general rules stated supra
this section as to infringement of other kinds of compilations are fully
applicable; but they also belong to the class of works treating of the arts
and sciences, the publication of which implies consent to some use of them by
subsequent writers, to the end that there may be progress in the particular
art or science, and this affects the question of what constitutes infringement
of law books."
It was further pointed out that "where the similarities and identities are due
to coincidence and the necessities of the case" then there can be no question
of copy.
I may further refer to what Lord Ellenborough said in the case of -- 'Cary v.
Kearsley', (1802) 170 ER 679 at p. 680 (B). What his Lordship said was this:
"That part of the work of one author is found in another, is not of itself
piracy, or sufficient to support an action; a man may fairly adopt part of the
work of another; he may so make use of another's labour for the promotion of
science, and the benefit of the public; but having done so, the question will
be: Was the matter so taken used fairly with that view, and without what I may
term 'animus furandi'?" I may further refer to the decision of Vice Chancellor
Kindersley in the case of -- 'Muiray v. Bogue', (1353) 22 LJ Ch 457 (C), and
quote the following observations of the learned Vice Chancellor at p. 466:
"......it is an extremely difficult thing to see how far, the subject being
the same and the details necessarily to a great extent the same, the one has
fairly or unfairly used the work of the other."
It was further pointed out that the real test in a matter like this is to see
whether the defendant has done what Lord Cottenham called "the extrao-tion of
the vital parts of the book".
In Canada the position in regard to text books was stated by Putnam, J. in the
case of -- 'Sampson & Murdock Co. v. Seaver-Radford Co.', (1905) 140 F. 539
(D), as follows:
"....it is clear that, under some circumstances and for certain purposes, a
subsequent publisher may draw from the earlier publication its identical
words, and make use of them. This is peculiarly so with reference to works in
regard to the arts and sciences, using these words in the broadest sense,
because, with reference to them, any publication is given out as a development
in the way of progress, and to certain extent, by common consent, including
the implied consent of the first publisher, others interested in advancing the
same art of science may commence where the prior author stopped. This includes
medical and legal publications, in which the entire community has an interest,
and which the authors are supposed to give forth, not only for their own
pecuniary profit, but for the advancement of science."
12\. In order to be an infringement of a man's copyright there must be a
'substantial infringement' of the work. Pair dealing with any work has been
kept out of the mischief of the Copyright Act.
13\. It was pointed out in the case of -- 'Kartar Singh v. Ladha Singh', AIR
1934 Lah 777 (E), as follows:
"Every man can take what is useful from the original work, improve, add and
give to the public the whole, comprising the original work, with the additions
and improvements; and in such a case there is no invasion of any right."
As was pointed out in -- 'Hanfastaengal v. W. H. Smith & Son', (1905) 1 Ch 519
(F), "a copy is that which conies so near to the original as to give to every
person seeing it the idea created by the original".
It was pointed out by the House of Lords in 1895 in a case that this "question
may be solved by taking each of the works to be compared as a whole and
determining whether there is not merely a similarity or resemblance in some
leading feature or in certain of the details, but whether keeping in view the
idea and general effect created by the original, there is such a degree of
similarity as would lead one to say that the alleged infringement is a copy or
reproduction of the original".
14\. It was in order to make it possible for me to apply the tests which
previous authorities have laid down in regard to judging such matters that I
insisted upon the plaintiff supplying to the Court a chart of the
infringements. I asked the plaintiff to classify the infringements so as to
show which infringements were infringements of his original composition and
which were infringements in regard to arrangement and selection. The
plaintiff, as I have already stated, did not put in this chart till much after
he had left the witness-box so that counsel for the defendants could not
cross-examine him in regard to this chart. During the course of his
submissions I asked the plaintiff to give me instances--specific instances--of
passages which, according to him, were his original compositions and which had
been copied by the defendants. The plaintiff gave me in all 17 such
illustrations. The matter contained in the entire list of illustrations would
be covered in very much less than half the number of composed pages. This is
but one aspect of the matter. The other aspect of the matter was that when I
started comparing the passages in the two books I discovered that there was
obvious difference in regard to at least 9 of these 17 illustrations.
I may point out one particular instance to show that what the plaintiff called
his own composition was really a copy of what was stated in Halsbury on the
subject. This was in regard to what is stated at page 17, note (f) in the
plaintiff's book, the corresponding portion in the defendant's book being at
page 50, note (6). I may point out two other illustrations taken by the
plaintiff from page 11, notes (e) and (g) of his book. These passages the
plaintiff claimed as his original, but it was shown by learned counsel for the
defendants that they were taken from Lind-ley's book on Partnership, page 93.
15\. As I nave pointed out earlier, the plaintiff contented himself by stating
in Ms evidence that as many as 797 passages of his work had been pirated by
the defendants. The plaintiff did not in his evidence refer specifically to
any of these passages, but he was cross-examined on behalf of the defendants
in regard to many of these. A large portion of the alleged infringements
consists of passages which occur in reported decisions. Attempt was made,
naturally, by counsel for the defendants to show that the plaintiff himself
did not select these passages from the decisions but got those passages, or at
any rate a clue to those passages, from other commentators on the law of
partnership.
Questions were put to the plaintiff to demonstrate that he could not possibly
have had the time and the opportunity to examine and read all the cases which
he has cited in his book. I shall now quote some of these questions and the
answers returned by the plaintiff to examine the effect of the plaintiff's
evidence on this assertion of the defendants. The following are some of the
questions and answers which would assist in determining this matter:
"Q. Did you have time and opportunity of consulting the English authorities
and the reports from which you purport to have quoted so largly in your book?
A. Yes.
Q. Did you read each and every case which you have referred to in your book?
A. Yes. Q. Do you possess these books in your library?
     "A. No.  I  consulted    them  in    other    libraries. 
     Q. How much time did you take in accumulating the material for your book? 
     A. I cannot tell you that. 
     Q. Did you check up and read all the cases referred to in  Mew's Digest on partnership? 
     A. I read all    the    cases    referred to in    the Mew's  Digest. 
     Q. Did you read  all the cases on partnership referred to in Halsbury's Laws of England? 
     A. Yes."  
16\. It was contended on the above evidence of the plaintiff that the
plaintiff's claim to having read the entire material himself was a false claim
because it was not possible for the plaintiff, handicapped as he was for want
of a library of his own and the short time within which he brought out his
book, to do all that he claims to have done. It is, in my view, not easy to
say that what the plaintiff said he did was an impossible task, but from other
parts of his evidence, as also from intrinsic evidence available in the
plaintiff's book, it looks to me that the plaintiff's claim of having read all
the cases himself before he made use of them was not a correct claim.
17\. The plaintiff in his illustrations showing infringements showed such
passages also which 'prima facie' appear to have been taken from judgments.
The plaintiff was asked this question.
"Q. Have you or have you not marked passages in the defendant's book which
have been taken from judgments?
A. No. There may be a few passages."
18\. After the aforequoted answer had been returned by the plaintiff learned
counsel for the defendants demonstrated by asking certain other questions to
the plaintiff that this assertion of his was not well founded.
I shall now refer to a few questions to indicate how the plaintiff insisted on
saying that there was infringement of his work in respect of certain passages
even though by his cross-examination it was made clear that his case in regard
to these infringements was without substance. Counsel for the defendants took
up a passage appearing in the plaintiff's book at page 157, note (a), and a
corresponding passage which was alleged to be an infringement in the
defendant's book at page 323, note 6, and showed that the passage which the
defendants had in their book was from a judgment. It was also pointed out to
the plaintiff that there was a difference -- an obvious difference -- in the
two passages and then he was asked whether or not he still insisted in saying
that the defendants had copied the passage from his book.
To this the plaintiff answered that the infringement was on the ground of
arrangement. It would bo interesting to quote some of the questions and the
answers on which I have made the above observation. They are as follows:
"Q. Is it or is it not a fact that the judgment says that false entries had
been made in accounts and the defendant's book also says so?
     A.    Yes. 
     Q. Is it or is it not a fact that these lines do not occur in your book but in the defendant's book? 
     A.    These lines do not  occur in my book but they occur in the defendant's book. 
     Q.    Will you please still say that this passage has infringed your copyright? 
     A. I have already said that the infringement is in arrangement?"  
     Counsel for the defendants took another passage
    and put it to the plaintiff thus: 
     "Q.   Will you kindly see page 347 of the defendant's book and page 177 of your book and tell the Court the source from which you got this passage? 
     A. So far as I remember the principle has been culled out from the rulings cited and the statement is in my own language."  
     19. After the aforementioned answer was returned by the plaintiff the following question was put to him by me: 
     "Q.    The reading of the two passages will indicate or will it not that the two authors wrote the  respective   passages   independently? 
     A.    No."  
     20. Counsel for the defendants then put this question to the plaintiff: 
      "Q.    I say that you have taken this 'passage from 1 Bombay Law Reporter and the defendant's passage is a faithful reproduction of that. Is it or is it not a fact?" 
     The plaintiff  had  to answer  in the  affirmative. 
     21. The plaintiff was further asked this: 
      "Q. Is    it or   is    not a    fact   that    you    have changed the word 'management" into 'arrangement'   whereas   in   the   judgment   the   word 'management' occurs?" 
     The plaintiff anwered in the affirmative. 
     22.  He was asked this: 
      "Q.   Is it or is it not a fact that in the defendant's book the word 'management'  occurs?" 
     23. He again answered in the affirmative and then he was asked; 
      "Q.   Do you still say that this passage has been copied from your book?" 
     24. To this the plaintiff returned the following answer: 
"A. Yes, I still maintain that this passage has been copied from my book. I
say so because I used the word 'surviving' and the defendant too has used the
word 'surviving', a word which has not been used in the judgment,"
The use of the word 'surviving' by both the plaintiff and the defendants in
their respective books-does not appear to me to be of any real consequence
because the use of that word was natural to the context and the word was not
such an uncommon word as to lead anyone to the conclusion that because that
word appears in the two passages the one passage must have been the copy of
the other.
25\. Counsel for the defendants put another question to the plaintiff in these
words:
"Q. Kindly have page 317 of the defendant's book, note 3, and the
corresponding passage in your book at page 155, note (f), and please tell the
Court if you will admit that the language is not entirely different?"
     26. The plaintiff returned   an   answer   in   the affirmative to this question.    Learned counsel for the defendants then asked him this question: 
     Q. I put it to you that in 25 Bombay the words are exactly what have been used by the defendant and not used by you.   Is it so? 
     A. Here I have complained of the arrangement."  
     27. The plaintiff then volunteered and said that he had made a mistake and that he cannot give an answer to this question. 
28\. The plaintiff claimed originality in respect of several passages and
counsel for the defendants naturally attempted to show that such a claim was
unjustified. I should like to refer to some questions and answers to show that
the plaintiff was severely shaken in his cross-examination in regard to this
matter. The plaintiff was asked these questions:
"Q. Yesterday you told the Court that you have never consulted the Century
Digest in writing your book. Do you still maintain that position?
A. I did not consult the Century Digest.
Q. Have you not taken the passage appearing in your book at page 178, note (f)
from the Century Digest which I have shown to you?
A. No, although the passages are exactly identical."
29\. The witness while thus cornered in cross-examination volunteered by
saying that if there was coincidence in similarity of expression between him
and Sanjiva Rao--the author of the Century Digest--then he could give no
adequate reason why there could not be similarity of expression between him
and the defendants This statement which was volunteered by the plaintiff, to
my mind, indicated that he gave up his stand which he had taken in regard to
those passages which could be found in other books also,
30\. A good deal of emphasis was laid by the plaintiff on what he called 'his
arrangement' and which, according to him, was the subject-matter of his
copyright and which further, according to him, had been infringed by the
defendants. It, therefore, became necessary for counsel for the defendants to
ask the plaintiff some questions to clarify the position. The plaintiff was
asked:
"Q. Will you kindly tell the Court what do you mean by arrangement in a book?
A. Arrangement means 'order'," He was then asked:
"Q. Will you kindly explain what do you mean by the word 'order'?
A. Order of notes, by which I mean the notes indicating the passages or the
passages indicating notes."
31\. I must say that 1 do not understand what exactly the plaintiff meant by
the answer that he gave. Learned counsel for the defendants also did not
appear to understand the plaintiff sufficiently and, therefore, he seems to
have asked him the following questions:
"Q. Do you mean to say that an order or arrangement is indicated by your sub-
headings?
A. It is not indicated in my sub-heading."
The plaintiff was then asked:
"Q. Do you mean to say that the cases cited under a particular section go to
constitute an order or arrangement?
The plaintiff answered in the affirmative."
The plaintiff was then asked:
"Q. Do you or do you not expect that any commentator "on any particular
section will cite all the relevant case law under that section?
A. Of course, yes."
He was thereafter put this question:
"Q. Would it not then be in this case that the cases cited by you would be the
same as the cases cited by the defendant under a particular section?"
'The plaintiff answered in the affirmative.
32\. From what I have quoted above it appears to me that the plaintiff's claim
to his copyright in regard to arrangement having been infringed must fail. It
may further be pointed out that arrangement of a book is, to my mind, best
indicated by the headings and the sub-headings under which the author deals
with the subject-matter. A comparison of the two works would make it perfectly
clear that the defendants in their book have a much larger number of headings
and sub-headings than the plaintiff has. The plaintiff was asked whether or
not the headings and sub-headings of the defendant's book were largely
different from those in his book, but the plaintiff did not admit this. In my
view this denial of the plaintiff must be held to be futile because it would
be clear to anyone on a comparison of the two works that it is so. The
plaintiff was asked this question:
"Q. Is it or is it, not a fact that the defendant's book has a large number of
sub-heads which do not find place in your book?
A. May be, I am not challenging that."
33\. This answer of the plaintiff, to my mind, clearly demonstrates that
"though vanquished he could argue still". Counsel for the defendants just
chose another line to attack this part of the plaintiff's claim. The plaintiff
was asked this:
"Q. If the defendant has dealt with the question of goodwill under section 14
and you have dealt with that subject under a different section, could you
still say that the defendant has copied your arrangement?
A. NO."
34\. After learned counsel for the defendants obtained the above admission
from the plaintiff he put him this question:
"Q. Will you kindly turn to pages 108 to 111 of the defendant's book and
compare them with your page 37 and say whether or not the arrangement is the
same with respect to the subject-matter of goodwill?
A. It is different,"
The plaintiff was again asked this question:
"Q. Will you please refer to Section 26 as dealt with in the defendant's book
and compare it with your book and say whether any of the headings are common?"
The plaintiff answered "No". The plaintiff was further asked this:
"Q. Please tell the Court whether or not the headings in the defendant's book
have been suggested from the words of the section itself?"
The plaintiff answered thus:
"I have not considered this matter at all and I cannot answer it."
35\. It appears to me that the plaintiff by refusing to answer that question
gave up this part of his case more or less in sheer despair. I shall only take
a few more passages from the plaintiff's statement on this matter to show how
utterly hopeless his contention in regard to it was. The plaintiff was asked
this:
"Q. Will you kindly look at Section 13, Clause (c), and say whether the
subject matter falling under this clause has been dealt with in the
defendant's book under 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, G, 7 and 8 different headings?
A. Yes."
The plaintiff was then asked by me this question:
"Q. Do you still maintain that there has been a copy of your arrangement by
the defendant?' The plaintiff returned an audacious reply in these words:
"I do maintain that still."
36\. I may here state that during his opening argument the plaintiff claimed
that the book of the defendant followed precisely the same arrangement which
had been followed by him. He, however, whittled down this very general
statement of his during the course of the proceedings of the case. Even so, I
cannot hold, on the evidence either of the plaintiff as given by him in the
witness-box or on a comparison of the two books, that there was any substance
in this claim.
It would be appropriate at this stage to notice an old decision of the Court
of Chancery in --Barfleld v. Nicholson', (1824) 2 LJ Ch 90 (G), where it was
pointed out that "the sameness of the thing delineated must produce similarity
in delineation". It was further pointed out that mere fact of resemblance is
not in itself evidence of piracy where the subject dealt with is the same.
37\. The plaintiff based his contention that his "work was original" within
the meaning of the Copyright Act even though he had merely made compilations
and selections from available sources on the strength of the decision in
--'AIR 1924 PC 75 (A)', in this case it was held by the Judicial Committee of
the Privy Council that "a publication of which the text consists of a reprint
of passages selected for use in schools from a work which does not enjoy the
protection of copyright may be entitled to copyright if the selection of the
passages would require, for the purpose of effecting the object in view,
accurate scientific knowledge, sound judgment, and literary skill", but in the
same case it was pointed out that the question "what amount of such knowledge,
judgment, and skill is necessary in order to acquire copyright is a question
of degree."
In every case it must depend largely on the special facts of that case and
must in each case be very much a question of degree. Bearing this principle in
mind it cannot, in my judgment, be stated that the selection that the
plaintiff made of cases for the purposes of his commentary or the arrangement
that he followed was the result of any such outstanding judgment or skill -- a
judgment or skill that was not within the ordinary reach of any other
commentator which the plaintiff brought to bear on his work.
38\. Reliance was placed by the plaintiff on the decision in -- 'Corelli v.
Gray', (1912-13) 29 TLR 570 (H), to support his contention that he had a
copyright in his book. In my opinion this case in no way assisted the
plaintiff's contention but went contra to it. It was pointed out in this case
that there was no absolute monopoly given to authors analogous to that
conferred on inventors of patents. It was further pointed out that it was
possible to produce two precisely similar works wholly independently of one
another. The right which an author appeared to have under the Copyright Act
was merely a negative right to prevent the appropriation of the labours of an
author by another. This case is also an authority for the view that the onus
of establishing such appropriation rested upon the plaintiff. There is no
denying the fact, on the strength of the authorities, that several persons may
originate similar works in the same general form without anyone infringing the
law in regard to copyright. The infringement comes in only when it can be
shown that someone has, instead of utilizing the available sources to
originate his work, appropriated the labours of another by resorting to a
slavish copy or mere colourable imitation thereof. The 'animus furandi', that
is an intention to take from another for purposes of saving labour, is one of
the important ingredients to be found against a defendant before he can, in a
suit under the Copyright Act, be damnified.
39\. It was contended by the plaintiff that the defence of "common source" was
not available to the defendants, inasmuch as, the defendants did not take that
defence specifically in their written statement nor did they assert such a
plea in any evidence. It is no doubt true that the defendants have not in so
many words taken the plea of "common source" in their written statement, but a
reading of the additional pleas of their written statement makes it clear to
me that the defendants in substance and in effect raised a plea of "common
source."
None of the defendants entered the witness box, but that, to my mind made no
difference to the defendants' case because the burden lay on the plaintiff to
satisfy the Court that the defendants had in fact infringed his copyright. The
plaintiff's contention further was that a plaintiff in a copyright case
discharged the burden that lay on him by merely stating on oath that the
defendant had infringed his copyright and thereafter the burden shifted to the
defendant to show that he had not done so. Great emphasis was laid by the
plaintiff on the fact that none of the defendants stepped into the witness-box
to deny his assertion on oath.
It may here be pointed out that the alleged authors mentioned on the title
page of the defendants' book were K.L. Gauba, H.D. Suri and S.K. lyer. A
written-statement was filed on behalf of defendants 1 and 2 to the suit only,
namely, the Law Book Company, who published the book, and J.N. Bagga, who had
the book published. The other defendants did not choose to put in any
appearance. In such circumstances the publishers had to face the trial under
great handicaps. The only method by which the publishers could meet the
plaintiff's case was by breaking the assertions of the plaintiff by his cross-
examination and by referring to the sources from which the materials in the
defendants' book had been taken. I have already referred quite extensively to
the plaintiff's statement and I have also referred to many of the sources to
which reference was made on behalf of the defendants to show that the
defendants obtained the materials for their book not from the plaintiff's book
but from other sources.
40\. In deciding the question whether one book is a copy of the other or not
the Court has, in my view, to keep in mind the two features of the two books,
namely, the external and the internal features. By external features I mean
the get-up and the 'overall' scope of the publication. By internal features I
mean the general lay out of the subject-matter, the manner of the treatment of
the subject matter and the amount of material contained in the book. In the
external features the two books, one of the plaintiff and the other of the
defendants, have no similarity at all. The title of the plaintiff's book is
"The Indian Partnership Act" while the title of the defendants' book is "Law &
Practice of Partnership and Private Companies in India". The plaintiff's book
is a volume of 311 pages while the defendants' book covers 862 pages (barring
the index in both the books). The get-up of the two books is also entirely
different.
41\. In the internal features too there is a marked dissimilarity. The
plaintiff was cross-examined to indicate that the subject-matter dealt with in
the defendants' book was far in excess of what was dealt with in his book. The
plaintiff was asked this question:
"Is it or is it not a fact that the defendants' book has a large number of
sub-heads which do not find place in your book?"
The plaintiff answered thus:
"May be, I am not challenging that".
The plaintiff tried to correct himself the next morning by returning a
negative answer to the Question, but even then he had to admit that there were
a much larger number of subjects dealt with in the defendants' book than in
his book. The plaintiff attempted to argue that even though the defendants'
book covered a much wider field and had very much more material condensed in
it yet the defendants' book infringed his copyright. It, therefore, became
necessary for the defence to pursue the cross-examination of the plaintiff to
demonstrate that the plaintiff's assertion was a vain assertion. I do not
propose to quote from the plaintiff's statement to show that he really failed
to substantiate his assertion. A reading of the plaintiff's statement from
pages 29 to 36 would clearly demonstrate this.
42\. It was pointed out that in the plaintiff's book there are only about 1500
cases cited while in the defendants' book no less than 3000 cases have been
cited. It was also pointed out that in the plaintiff's book there are no
"marginal notes" whereas in the defendants' book there are extensive "marginal
notes".
43\. Sri Jagdish Swarup, appearing for the defendants argued that out of the
total of 797 passages marked by the plaintiff as infringements, 114 such
marked passages related to footnotes and these footnotes were only references
to cases in respect of which, it was stated by Sri Jagdish Swarup, the
plaintiff could have no copyright. The plaintiff filed a chart indicating in
particular certain instances of infringements. This chart was subjected to
careful scrutiny and I need only state here the conclusion to which I arrived,
namely, that the scrutiny did not reveal that there was any real infringement
by the defendants of the plaintiff's copyright.
44\. For the purposes of his argument counsel for the defendants classified
the alleged infringements into seven groups, (1) consisted of passages which
had been taken verbatim from Lindley on Partnership, (2) passages which had
been taken from other standard authors, (3) passages which had been taken from
judgments reported in law reports, (4) passages which had been taken from
digests, (5) passages which the plaintiff had put down in his book by
paraphrasing similar passages from authors like Lindley, (6) passages which on
the face of them were dissimilar, and (7) passages in respect of which the
plaintiff claimed original composition.
In respect of the first six classes there could be 'prima facie' no
infringement unless the plaintiff was able to show that he brought to bear any
special skill or judgment in their incorporation in his book. I have already
held that the plaintiff did not satisfy me as to his having exercised any
special skill or judgment in the appropriation of these passages in his book.
Many of the passages in respect of which the plaintiff claimed originality of
composition could not stand the test of cross-examination and I am constrained
to hold that the plaintiff has failed to prove originality of composition in
respect of such passages.
45\. Lastly, the plaintiff stated that in the defendants' book you could find
the same mistakes which appeared in the plaintiff's book and it was,
therefore, contended that these mistakes, could never have appeared in the
defendants' book if the passages had not been copied or taken from the
plaintiff's book. This argument would have been substantial to support the
plaintiff's contention that, at least, in respect of these passages there was
an infringement of his copyright, if he had succeeded in showing that there
were a large number of such passages, at least such numbers as could eliminate
the element of chance that always is there in such matters. On a scrutiny of
these passages it was discovered that there were only three mistakes common
both to the plaintiff's book and the defendants' book.
In my judgment this number is much too small to lead one to the conclusion
that there was necessarily a copying of these passages from the plaintiff's
book. Before a plaintiff is entitled to relief he is bound to show that there
has been a substantial taking by the other side from his book; no such
substantial taking has been proved in this case. I must, therefore, hold that
the plaintiff has failed to prove that there has been any substantial
infringement of his work by the defendants. From a perusal of the defendants'
book it is clear that when the defendants' book was being compiled the authors
had before them the plaintiff's work also -- I say this because I find at one
or two places in the defendants' book an acknowledgement having been made of
the use which the authors made of the plaintiff's book. This acknowledgement
by the authors of the fact that they found use from the plaintiff's material
leads me to the conclusion that had the authors made any other use of the
plaintiff's book for compiling their own book, they would have acknowledged
the same. I cannot presume, on the facts which were laid before me in this
case that the defendants made any substantial or unfair use of the plaintiff's
work.
46\. Many other matters were argued on behalf of the plaintiff, but I consider
a reference to these unnecessary for, in my judgment, they were not really
pertinent to the main issues which called for determination.
47\. The plaintiff having failed to establish any infringement of his
copyright, no question of granting any relief to the plaintiff could arise. It
may here be noted, however, that there was on behalf of the plaintiff, no
evidence to indicate what damage, if any, accrued to him, assuming that there
was an infringement of his copyright by the defendants.
48\. Before, I come to the operative part of my judgment I should like to
state that the trial of this case took a long time and that a good deal of the
time could have been saved if the plaintiff had followed some proper sequence
and had not chosen to digress into unnecessary and unimportant things. The
plaintiff resorted to many a delaying tactics to which I had occasion to refer
in my order dated 2-11-1953. I also think it proper at this stage to
acknowledge the assistance that I got from Sri Jagdish Swarup who very fairly
laid everything before the Court in order to assist it to arrive at a correct
decision.
49\. For the reasons that I have indicated earlier I dismiss this suit with
costs to the nswering defendants.
work.
46\. Many other matters were argued on behalf of the plaintiff, but I consider
a reference to these unnecessary for, in my judgment, they were not really
pertinent to the main issues which called for determination.
47\. The plaintiff having failed to establish any infringement of his
copyright, no question of granting any relief to the plaintiff could arise. It
may here be noted, however, that there was on behalf of the plaintiff, no
evidence to indicate what damage, if any, accrued to him, assuming that there
was an infringement of his copyright by the defendants.
48\. Before, I come to the operative part of my judgment I should like to
state that the trial of this case took a long time and that a good deal of the
time could have been saved if the plaintiff had followed some proper sequence
and had not chosen to digress into unnecessary and unimportant things. The
plaintiff resorted to many a delaying tactics to which I had occasion to refer
in my order dated 2-11-1953. I also think it proper at this stage to
acknowledge the assistance that I got from Sri Jagdish Swarup who very fairly
rival publication, according to the plaintiff, contained numerous passages
which had been pirated from the plaintiff's work. The said rival publication
purports to be written by K.L. Gauba, Barrister-at-law, defendant No. 3, H.D.
Suri, B.A.,LL.B., defendant No. 5, and S.K. lyer, B.A..B.L., defendant No. 4;
the Law Book Company defendant No. 1, are the publishers of this work while
defendant No. 2 is said to have had the book published for defendant No. 1,
that is the Law Book Company. This book was published by the Law Book Company
when it existed at Lahore. It may be noticed that the present location of this
Company is at Allahabad.
2\. The plaintiff's case further is that the defendants wrongfully infringed
his copyright and that they did not refrain from discontinuing the sale of the
infringed book even after notice had been served on them calling upon them to
desist from such unlawful activity.
3\. The plaintiff alleges that he got knowledge of his copyright having been
infringed by the rival publication sometime in July 1948. By the suit the
plaintiff has claimed the following reliefs:
(a) That an account of the profits be rendered or in the alternative damages
be awarded to him--the plaintiff has tentatively valued this relief at Rs.
1,200/-.
(b) That an order for the delivering up of all the copies of the rival
work.
46\. Many other matters were argued on behalf of the plaintiff, but I consider
a reference to these unnecessary for, in my judgment, they were not really
pertinent to the main issues which called for determination.
47\. The plaintiff having failed to establish any infringement of his
copyright, no question of granting any relief to the plaintiff could arise. It
may here be noted, however, that there was on behalf of the plaintiff, no
evidence to indicate what damage, if any, accrued to him, assuming that there
was an infringement of his copyright by the defendants.
48\. Before, I come to the operative part of my judgment I should like to
state that the trial of this case took a long time and that a good deal of the
time could have been saved if the plaintiff had followed some proper sequence
and had not chosen to digress into unnecessary and unimportant things. The
plaintiff resorted to many a delaying tactics to which I had occasion to refer
in my order dated 2-11-1953. I also think it proper at this stage to
acknowledge the assistance that I got from Sri Jagdish Swarup who very fairly
rival publication, according to the plaintiff, contained numerous passages
which had been pirated from the plaintiff's work. The said rival publication
purports to be written by K.L. Gauba, Barrister-at-law, defendant No. 3, H.D.
Suri, B.A.,LL.B., defendant No. 5, and S.K. lyer, B.A..B.L., defendant No. 4;
the Law Book Company defendant No. 1, are the publishers of this work while
defendant No. 2 is said to have had the book published for defendant No. 1,
that is the Law Book Company. This book was published by the Law Book Company
when it existed at Lahore. It may be noticed that the present location of this
Company is at Allahabad.
2\. The plaintiff's case further is that the defendants wrongfully infringed
his copyright and that they did not refrain from discontinuing the sale of the
infringed book even after notice had been served on them calling upon them to
desist from such unlawful activity.
3\. The plaintiff alleges that he got knowledge of his copyright having been
infringed by the rival publication sometime in July 1948. By the suit the
plaintiff has claimed the following reliefs:
(a) That an account of the profits be rendered or in the alternative damages
be awarded to him--the plaintiff has tentatively valued this relief at Rs.
1,200/-.
(b) That an order for the delivering up of all the copies of the rival
work.
46\. Many other matters were argued on behalf of the plaintiff, but I consider
a reference to these unnecessary for, in my judgment, they were not really
pertinent to the main issues which called for determination.
47\. The plaintiff having failed to establish any infringement of his
copyright, no question of granting any relief to the plaintiff could arise. It
may here be noted, however, that there was on behalf of the plaintiff, no
evidence to indicate what damage, if any, accrued to him, assuming that there
was an infringement of his copyright by the defendants.
48\. Before, I come to the operative part of my judgment I should like to
state that the trial of this case took a long time and that a good deal of the
time could have been saved if the plaintiff had followed some proper sequence
and had not chosen to digress into unnecessary and unimportant things. The
plaintiff resorted to many a delaying tactics to which I had occasion to refer
in my order dated 2-11-1953. I also think it proper at this stage to
acknowledge the assistance that I got from Sri Jagdish Swarup who very fairly
rival publication, according to the plaintiff, contained numerous passages
which had been pirated from the plaintiff's work. The said rival publication
purports to be written by K.L. Gauba, Barrister-at-law, defendant No. 3, H.D.
Suri, B.A.,LL.B., defendant No. 5, and S.K. lyer, B.A..B.L., defendant No. 4;
the Law Book Company defendant No. 1, are the publishers of this work while
defendant No. 2 is said to have had the book published for defendant No. 1,
that is the Law Book Company. This book was published by the Law Book Company
when it existed at Lahore. It may be noticed that the present location of this
Company is at Allahabad.
2\. The plaintiff's case further is that the defendants wrongfully infringed
his copyright and that they did not refrain from discontinuing the sale of the
infringed book even after notice had been served on them calling upon them to
desist from such unlawful activity.
3\. The plaintiff alleges that he got knowledge of his copyright having been
infringed by the rival publication sometime in July 1948. By the suit the
plaintiff has claimed the following reliefs:
(a) That an account of the profits be rendered or in the alternative damages
be awarded to him--the plaintiff has tentatively valued this relief at Rs.
1,200/-.
(b) That an order for the delivering up of all the copies of the rival
publication or such part or parts thereof as may be found to infringe the
copyright "of the plaintiff's publication be made and that such of the
infringing copies as are in the possession, custody or control of the
defendants, their servants or agents, together with any plate, block or blocks
of such infringing work be ordered to be delivered up to the plaintiff--this
relief the plaintiff values tentatively at Rs. 200 /-.
(c) That a permanent injunction restraining the defendants, their agents or
servants from continuing or repeating further or doing any act or acts to
infringe or injure the plaintiff's copyright be granted--this relief the
plaintiff values at Rs, 100/-.
(d) That costs of this suit and such other relief as the Court may deem fit be
work.
46\. Many other matters were argued on behalf of the plaintiff, but I consider
a reference to these unnecessary for, in my judgment, they were not really
pertinent to the main issues which called for determination.
47\. The plaintiff having failed to establish any infringement of his
copyright, no question of granting any relief to the plaintiff could arise. It
may here be noted, however, that there was on behalf of the plaintiff, no
evidence to indicate what damage, if any, accrued to him, assuming that there
was an infringement of his copyright by the defendants.
48\. Before, I come to the operative part of my judgment I should like to
state that the trial of this case took a long time and that a good deal of the
time could have been saved if the plaintiff had followed some proper sequence
and had not chosen to digress into unnecessary and unimportant things. The
plaintiff resorted to many a delaying tactics to which I had occasion to refer
in my order dated 2-11-1953. I also think it proper at this stage to
acknowledge the assistance that I got from Sri Jagdish Swarup who very fairly
rival publication, according to the plaintiff, contained numerous passages
which had been pirated from the plaintiff's work. The said rival publication
purports to be written by K.L. Gauba, Barrister-at-law, defendant No. 3, H.D.
Suri, B.A.,LL.B., defendant No. 5, and S.K. lyer, B.A..B.L., defendant No. 4;
the Law Book Company defendant No. 1, are the publishers of this work while
defendant No. 2 is said to have had the book published for defendant No. 1,
that is the Law Book Company. This book was published by the Law Book Company
when it existed at Lahore. It may be noticed that the present location of this
Company is at Allahabad.
2\. The plaintiff's case further is that the defendants wrongfully infringed
his copyright and that they did not refrain from discontinuing the sale of the
infringed book even after notice had been served on them calling upon them to
desist from such unlawful activity.
3\. The plaintiff alleges that he got knowledge of his copyright having been
infringed by the rival publication sometime in July 1948. By the suit the
plaintiff has claimed the following reliefs:
(a) That an account of the profits be rendered or in the alternative damages
be awarded to him--the plaintiff has tentatively valued this relief at Rs.
1,200/-.
(b) That an order for the delivering up of all the copies of the rival
publication or such part or parts thereof as may be found to infringe the
copyright "of the plaintiff's publication be made and that such of the
infringing copies as are in the possession, custody or control of the
defendants, their servants or agents, together with any plate, block or blocks
of such infringing work be ordered to be delivered up to the plaintiff--this
relief the plaintiff values tentatively at Rs. 200 /-.
(c) That a permanent injunction restraining the defendants, their agents or
servants from continuing or repeating further or doing any act or acts to
infringe or injure the plaintiff's copyright be granted--this relief the
plaintiff values at Rs, 100/-.
(d) That costs of this suit and such other relief as the Court may deem fit be
work.
46\. Many other matters were argued on behalf of the plaintiff, but I consider
a reference to these unnecessary for, in my judgment, they were not really
pertinent to the main issues which called for determination.
47\. The plaintiff having failed to establish any infringement of his
copyright, no question of granting any relief to the plaintiff could arise. It
may here be noted, however, that there was on behalf of the plaintiff, no
evidence to indicate what damage, if any, accrued to him, assuming that there
was an infringement of his copyright by the defendants.
48\. Before, I come to the operative part of my judgment I should like to
state that the trial of this case took a long time and that a good deal of the
time could have been saved if the plaintiff had followed some proper sequence
and had not chosen to digress into unnecessary and unimportant things. The
plaintiff resorted to many a delaying tactics to which I had occasion to refer
in my order dated 2-11-1953. I also think it proper at this stage to
acknowledge the assistance that I got from Sri Jagdish Swarup who very fairly
