Delhi High Court
M/S Marvel Tea Estate India Ltd vs M/S Nusun Genetic Research Ltd on 2 July,
2012
Author: Manmohan Singh
    *            HIGH COURT OF DELHI: NEW DELHI
    %                                              Order decided on: 02.07.2012
    +            I.A. No. 5464/2010 in CS (OS) No. 803/2010
    M/S MARVEL TEA ESTATE INDIA LTD                  ..... Plaintiff
                   Through: Ms. Pratibha M. Singh, Adv.
                              Versus
    M/S NUSUN GENETIC RESEARCH LTD                 ..... Defendant
                   Through: Ms. Sunita K. Sreedharan, Adv.
    CORAM:
    HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE MANMOHAN SINGH
    MANMOHAN SINGH, J.
1\. By this order, I propose to dispose of the pending application under Order
XXXIX, Rules 1 and 2 read with Section 151 CPC, being I.A. No.5464/2010, filed
by the plaintiff seeking interim injunction restraining the infringement of
trade mark, rendition of account against the defendant from in any way using
the word "Marvel" from marketing, selling, offering for sale, advertising
any manner when the matter would be considered by the Court after the trial.
CS(OS) No.803/2010 The issues in this matter have already been framed. Both
the parties have already filed their respective affidavits as evidence. The
matter is at the stage of trial which is expedited. Accordingly, Sh. S.K.
Tandon (retired Additional and Sessions Judge, Delhi) (Mob. 9811719888), is
appointed as a Court Commissioner to record the evidence of the parties. He
shall make endeavour to complete the evidence of the parties within a period
of 6-9 months. Let the matter be listed before the Court Commissioner on 2nd
August, 2012 at 4:00 pm for directions regarding the recording of evidence of
the parties in the High Court premises. His fee is fixed at Rs.60,000/- which
shall be paid by the plaintiff. The remaining fee would be fixed, if
necessary, depending upon the evidence and time consumed in the matter. The
Dealing CS (OS) No.803/2010 Page 28 of 29 Assistant of the matter will produce
the record of the case before the Court Commissioner on all the dates fixed by
him for the purpose of recording the evidence of the parties. He be paid diet
money as per rules, by the parties concerned. The parties are also granted
the word "Marvel" from marketing, selling, offering for sale, advertising
directly dealing in goods Hybrid Rice or use the same with any prefix amount
to infringement of plaintiffs‟ trade mark.
2\. The case of the plaintiff is that:-
(a) The plaintiff is part of Marvel Group of Companies engaged in the business
of manufacturing and marketing of goods like tea, soaps, detergent, bleaching
preparation, bearing the trade mark Marvel.
CS (OS) No.803/2010 Page 1 of 29
(b) The trademark was adopted and conceived the said trade mark Marvel in the
year 1994. In the application it is averred that the plaintiff had come to
know the illegal trade of the defendant‟s goods. Defendant was using the trade
mark "Nusun Marvel" in their goods and the same were being sold and no formal
billing was made.
(c) It is further averred in the application that the plaintiff conducted a
public search on the web site of the Trade Marks Registry and thereafter it
was revealed that defendant had applied for registration of trade mark Nusun
Marvel on 2nd June, 2009 vide application No. 1824521 wherein the defendant
has claimed to be an user since 1st June, 2005\. The plaintiff further alleges
that the defendant had been selling/manufacturing goods under Class 30, 31 in
a clandestine manner.
(d) The plaintiff further states that the defendant by adopting plaintiff‟s
trademark is causing a loss to the good will of the plaintiff‟s reputation. It
is also causing a deception in the minds of the general public and thereby
creating confusion amongst them. It is also alleged by the plaintiff that
plaintiff‟s goods and defendant‟s goods are so deceptively similar and thus it
is creating a confusion amongst the general consumers. The plaintiff‟s
business and defendant‟s business are similar. Therefore, an order of
injunction is sought by the plaintiff to restrain the defendant from using the
impugned trademark "NUSUN MARVEL".
3\. The defendant-company is an INR 700 crore seed company engaged in research
and development of hybrid seeds for commercial use. The defendant has 190
products in field crops and vegetables with sales in 19 states.
CS (OS) No.803/2010 Page 2 of 29
4\. The defendant obtained seed licence under the Seed (Control) Order, 1983
from the Department of Agriculture.
5\. In June, 2009, the defendant filed a trademark applications for "NUSUN
MARVEL" in classes 30 and 31 which are now pending for registration.
6\. The defendant‟s mark "NUSUN MARVEL" is a composite mark which was adopted
by the defendant with honest and bonafide intentions. The mark MARVEL, an
ordinary English word, used along with the dominant mark NUSUN which is
essential feature of the name of the defendant‟s company to lend further
distinctiveness to the mark as well as providing a source indicator of the
goods.
7\. It is alleged by the defendant that the plaintiff and the defendant are
not engaged in the same line of business. They conduct their respective
businesses through different trade channels. The business of the plaintiff is
in the sourcing and marketing of tea which is a fast moving consumer goods
(FMCG), whereas the defendant‟s seeds are sold to farmers through seed
distributors periodically in every sowing season. The goods produced by
defendant are meant to be used for paddy and the same do not come under the
category of FMGC. Rather there is caution statement mentioned on the product
of the defendant "CAUTION: TREATED WITH POISON (THIRAM + DELTAMETHRIN) DO NOT
USE FOR FOOD, FEED OR OIL PURPOSE". Hence, the question of confusion between
plaintiff‟s goods and defendant‟s goods does not arise. Both sets of goods are
distinguishable easily and even illiterate persons will be able to understand
the difference between the two products.
CS (OS) No.803/2010 Page 3 of 29
8\. The defendant states that no damage would be caused to the reputation of
the plaintiff, if the defendant is allowed to use the goods for paddy seeds
under the mark "NUSUN MARVEL" as it is not adversely affecting any rights of
the plaintiff. The plaintiff‟s reputation, if any, is limited i.e., in
relation to "tea" as admitted by them that they have been using the mark
MARVEL in relation to tea since 1994.
9\. The defendant alleges that they are selling the products all over India
(especially Northern India) legally with proper receipts and bills. Hence, no
question of infringement and passing off arises as the defendant has been
using the said trademark 1999. The defendant has obtained a Centralized Seed
License granted on 12th May, 1999 to sell seeds including paddy. The license
has been granted under the Seeds Act of 1996 and Seed (Control) Order 1983.
The defendant also submits that the whole process takes at least 6 to 8 months
and involves a lot of paper works and approval. Hence, the defendant has been
a bonafide user of the said trademark.
10\. The defendant also submits that the plaintiff‟s goods is tea and the same
falls under Class 30 and the goods of defendant‟s falls under Class 31. Both
are completely different and there can be no confusion. Moreover defendant‟s
goods are purchased exclusively by farmers, whereas plaintiff‟s products are
consumed by general public and used every day.
11\. I have heard learned counsel appearing on behalf of both parties. It is
pertinent to mention here that earlier the same plaintiff filed the suit being
CS(OS) No.2482/2009 along with the interim application being I.A.
No.16747/2009 against the third party i.e. P.M. Batra (Prop) M/s Gurukripa
Traders who was using the trade mark "MARVEL CS (OS) No.803/2010 Page 4 of 29
TOUCH" in respect of spices and wheat flour etc., the goods falling under
Class-30. The interim application in the said matter was heard by this Court
and after hearing, the defendant was restrained from manufacturing, selling,
offering for sale and dealing in the goods like Dhania, Mirthi, Haldi, Atta,
Maida etc. The defendant in the said matter filed the appeal before the
Division Bench against the order passed on 31st October, 2011. I have been
informed by the learned counsels for both the parties that the said appeal was
disposed of as defendant agreed not to use the mark Marvel. On the basis of
giving an undertaking, the appeal was disposed of.
12\. Ms. Prathiba M. Singh, learned counsel for the plaintiff has relied upon
the said judgment passed by this Court which is now reported in 2012 (49) PTC
82 (Del.). She submits that the present case is covered by the said judgment,
as the defendant in the present case is also using the essential feature of
the mark "MARVEL" in respect of hybrid rice, the goods which fall in class 30
in which the plaintiff has got the registered trademark "MARVEL" in relation
to various goods including rice. One such registration has been granted in
favour of the plaintiff bearing No.439740 as of 22.04.2004 in respect of many
goods including rice. The learned counsel has not denied that at present, the
plaintiff is using the mark MARVEL in respect of rice, but the plaintiff has
very much intention to use the same in due course. Therefore, the said item
has been reserved by the plaintiff for future purposes. She further submits
that even for initiating the action for infringement on the basis of a
registered trademark, the user is not required. As far as the case of passing
off is concerned, the learned counsel for the plaintiff submits that the good
„tea‟ used by the plaintiff extensively and the mark CS (OS) No.803/2010 Page
5 of 29 used by the defendant in respect of hybrid rice, are allied and
cognate goods. As per settled law actual confusion and deception is not
required in an action for infringement of trademark and passing off. As the
plaintiff has unique goodwill and reputation of the trademark Marvel in all
parts of India, therefore, the plaintiff has been able to establish its case
for infringement of trademark as well as for passing off, the interim order
already passed be confirmed. The counsel has also denied the user of 1999 as
claimed by the defendant.
13\. Pleadings of the parties and documents filed by the parties have been
examined by this Court. Some material facts are necessary to be referred here
which read as under:-
> (i) The relevant registered trademarks of the plaintiff:
> (a) Trade Mark : MARVEL Registration No.625297 as of 15.04.1994 in Class-30
> in respect of "Tea"
> (b) Trade Mark : MARVAL Registration No.1280137 as of 22.04.2004 in Class-30
> in respect of "Tea, Coffee, Cocoa, Rice, Sugar, Salt, Pulses, Spices,
> Sauces, Noodles, Maida, Suji, Besan, Honey, Ices, Bread, Biscuit,
> Confectionery, Cake, Namkeen, Pastry, Treacle, Yeast, Baking Powder, Vinegar
> and Mustard"
> (ii) The year-wise sale and publicity expenses of the goods of the
> plaintiff:
                 Year           Sales (Rs.)                    Publicity Expenses
                 1994-95        9431                           9431
                 1995-96        88504                          88504
                 1996-97        36225303                       196033
                 1997-98        88966345                       849429
                 1998-99        200111762                      7692091
                 1999-2000      282242688                      7719160
    CS (OS) No.803/2010                                                   Page 6 of 29
               2000-01          292161864                    12681548
              2001-02          393051349                    30179775
              2002-03          386528147                    46231752
              2003-04          441041928                    69714184
              2004-05          451242200                    47680348
              2005-06          54,95,89,547                 63,43,597
              2007-08          867264705                     - Not given -
              2008-09          1159531705                    - Do -
              2009-10          1077152419                    - Do -
> (iii) It is submitted by the plaintiff that on account of superior quality
> of goods of the plaintiff and due to continuous use of the trade mark
> "MARVEL" and its copyright in the pouches, boxes/carton, the goods of the
> plaintiff have acquired tremendous reputation and goodwill in the public and
> trade and the goods of the plaintiff are demanded and recognized by the
> purchasing public at large. The aforesaid trade mark and copyright in the
> packing, pouches, tin and goods is exclusively associated with the plaintiff
> in the minds of purchasing public and they purchased the goods of plaintiff
> bearing the trade mark "MARVEL" as a guarantee of excellence plaintiff‟s
> manufacture and none-else. It has no obvious meaning and cannot be
> identically copied.
14\. The scanned copy of one of the brochure of the plaintiff‟s products is as
under:
CS (OS) No.803/2010 Page 7 of 29
15\. The learned counsel for the defendant has relied upon the two sides of
colour brochures used by the defendants. It appears from the bottom of back
side of the brochures supplied by the counsel for the defendant that the
defendant‟s main trademarks in relation to seeds are "Vibha Seeds, Nusun
Seeds, and Sinnova", the scanned copy of which is as under:-
CS (OS) No.803/2010 Page 8 of 29
Front side brochure/pouch supplied by the counsel shows that in fact, the
defendant is using the mark "NUSUN" in respect of the seeds in the following
manner, the scanned copy of the same is reproduced here as under:-
A perusal of the bottom part of this brochure shows that the mark "NUSUN" is
written in a very small font than the mark "MARVEL" which is used in respect
of hybrid rice.
16\. Now, coming to the documents filed by the defendant. It is alleged that
the defendant has been using the mark MARVEL/NUSUN CS (OS) No.803/2010 Page 9
of 29 MARVEL in respect of a variety of paddy/rice seeds since 1999.
Annexure-4 filed along with the list of documents filed by the defendant which
is a brief profile of the defendant taken from its website shows that the
trademarks of the defendant are "Vibha, Nusun and Sinnova". The mark MARVEL in
respect of the seeds is not mentioned in the said print. Most of the documents
show that the defendant‟s main trademark is "Vibha Seeds" and appears from the
documents that the defendant is known in the market as "Vibha Seeds". At one
place, it is mentioned the mark MARVEL as one of the variety mark. The said
document is available at page-88 of the list of documents. In nut-shell, most
of documents show the defendant‟s profile. The defendant‟s main trademarks are
"Vibha Seeds" and "Nusun Seeds" and various variety/quality marks are
mentioned in the category of Nusun Seeds, the same are mentioned as Sigma,
Legend, Fame & Reyflo, Glow, Marvel Crown & Giant, Sarpanch and Pushti. In
Annexure-5 which is licence granted to the defendant in 1999 under the Seeds
Act, 1966, the various varieties/hybrids marks are mentioned, like Sunflower:
Max, Reyflo; Maize: Amaze, Prince, Legend, Bliss etc. In Annexure-6, the
defendant has given a consolidated statement of sale figures for three years
i.e. from 2007 to 2009. The defendant has also filed the list of purchase
orders for advertisement banner and other promotional material bearing the
trademark NUSUN MARVEL. The said orders are from the date of April, 2010 where
the trademark MARVEL is mentioned in the said purchase orders for promotional
material with regard to posters. The defendant has also filed few invoices
from the year 2007 bearing the trademark MARVEL which have been issued by the
defendant to various parties throughout India in respect of goods in question.
CS (OS) No.803/2010 Page 10 of 29
17\. No doubt, as per record some evidence from the year 2007 is available
about the use of mark MARVEL. But, after having gone through the documents,
there is no clear and cogent evidence about the use of mark Marvel to show
that it has been using the trademark MARVEL in relation to their goods since
the year 1999 as claimed by the defendant. Even the defendant has not filed
even a single piece of document about its advertisement on record to claim the
user of the mark MARVEL. The present suit has been filed the year 2010. The
defendant‟s counsel has not denied the fact that the plaintiff is holding the
registration of the trademark MARVEL in respect of rice, except it is argued
by the learned counsel for the defendant that the plaintiff is not dealing in
rice at present. The similar arguments were dealt by this Court in the earlier
case and the matter was decided between the parties.
18\. Learned counsel, appearing on behalf of the plaintiff, states that the
mark MARVEL has no meaning in the dictionary. It has been adopted by the
plaintiff in 1994. The plaintiff has no objection if the defendant may use the
word „Marvelous‟ in relation to its product.
19\. In view of the above said facts and circumstances, the following four
issues are involved in the matter:-
> (i) Whether the defendant is guilty of infringement of the registered
> trademark of the plaintiff‟s trademark MARVEL?
> (ii) Whether the two trademarks MARVEL and NUSUN MARVEL are deceptively
> similar?
> (iii) Whether the defendant is passing off its goods as that of the
> plaintiff?
> (iv) Whether the defendant is entitled to any benefit of the user since 2007
> as produced in the Court?
CS (OS) No.803/2010 Page 11 of 29
20\. The law relating to infringement of a registered trademark has been
envisaged u/S 29 of the Trade Marks Act, 1999 and exclusive rights granted by
virtue of registration under Section 28 which reads as under:-
> "29. Infringement of registered trade marks - "Infringement of registered
> trade marks.- (1) A registered trade mark is infringed by a person who, not
> being a registered proprietor or a person using by way of permitted use,
> uses in the course of trade, a mark which is identical with, or deceptively
> similar to, the trade mark in relation to goods or services in respect of
> which the trade mark is registered and in such manner as to render the use
> of the mark likely to be taken as being used as a trade mark.
> (2) A registered trade mark is infringed by a person who, not being a
> registered proprietor or a person using by way of permitted use, uses in the
> course of trade, a mark which because of-
> (a) its identity with the registered trade mark and the similarity of the
> goods or services covered by such registered trade mark; or
> (b) its similarity to the registered trade mark and the identity or
> similarity of the goods or services covered by such registered trade mark;
> or
> (c) its identity with the registered trade mark and the identity of the
> goods or services covered by such registered trade mark, is likely to cause
> confusion on the part of the public, or which is likely to have an
> association with the registered trade mark. (3) In any case falling under
> clause (c) of sub- section (2), the court shall presume that it is likely to
> cause confusion on the part CS (OS) No.803/2010 Page 12 of 29 of the public.
> (4) A registered trade mark is infringed by a person who, not being a
> registered proprietor or a person using by way of permitted use, uses in the
> course of trade, a mark which-
> (a) is identical with or similar to the registered trade mark; and
> (b) is used in relation to goods or services which are not similar to those
> for which the trade mark is registered; and
> (c) the registered trade mark has a reputation in India and the use of the
> mark without due cause takes unfair advantage of or is detrimental to, the
> distinctive character or repute of the registered trade mark. ......"
> "28. Rights conferred by registration -
> (1) Subject to the other provisions of this Act, the registration of a trade
> mark shall, if valid, give to the registered proprietor of the trade mark
> the exclusive right to the use of the trade mark in relation to the goods or
> services in respect of which the trade mark is registered and to obtain
> relief in respect of infringement of the trade mark in the manner provided
> by this Act. (2) The exclusive right to the use of a trade mark given under
> sub-section (1) shall be subject to any conditions and limitations to which
> the registration is subject.
> (3) Where two or more persons are registered proprietors of trade marks,
> which are identical with or nearly resemble each other, the exclusive right
> to the use of any of those trade marks shall not (except so far as their
> respective rights are subject to any conditions or limitations entered on
> the register) be deemed to have been acquired by any one of those person as
> against any other of those persons merely by registration of the trade marks
> but each of those persons has otherwise the same rights as against other
> persons (not being registered users using by way of permitted use) as he
> would have if he were the sole registered proprietor."
CS (OS) No.803/2010 Page 13 of 29
> By mere reading of these provisions, it is clear that a registered trademark
> is infringed by a person who not being a registered proprietor, uses in the
> course of trade a mark which is identical or deceptively similar in relation
> to the goods or services which are identical or similar to that in respect
> of which the trademark is registered without the permission of the trademark
> owner.
21\. So far as infringement qua different goods is concerned, separate
enactment of Section 29(4) makes it clear that the strict rigors are
prescribed as against the ordinary case of similar goods wherein a registered
proprietor has to establish that the registered trademark has reputation in
India and is of such a nature wherein the use of the mark by the other side
without due cause would tantamount to taking unfair advantage or detrimental
to the distinctive character or repute of a trademark.
22\. A reading of Section 29(4) of the Act would reveal that the said
protection qua different goods is earmarked by the Legislature for the
trademarks which are either highly reputed or well known or famous trademarks
and enjoy either high level of distinctiveness or the marks which are
inherently distinctive in nature or has become distinctive due to their
repute; the use of which will cause detrimental to the distinctive character
and repute of the trademark only when the ingredients of Section 29(4) are
satisfied conjunctively which is sub sections (a), (b) and (c) the
infringement qua Section 29(4) in relation to different goods is attracted.
CS (OS) No.803/2010 Page 14 of 29
23\. It is settled law that in order to prove the case for infringement of
trade mark, the plaintiff has to show that the essential features of the
registered trade mark which has been adopted by the defendant has been taken
out from the plaintiff‟s registration. Only the marks are to be compared by
the Court and in case the registration is granted in favour of the plaintiff,
he acquires valuable right by reason of the said registration. The following
are the judgments which are relevant to be referred for the purpose of
infringement of the trade mark:
> i. Kaviraj Pandit Durga Dutt Sharma v. Navaratna Pharmaceutical Laboratories
> AIR1965SC980 - at 989- 990 page wherein it was held that:
> "The action for infringement is a statutory remedy conferred on the
> registered proprietor of a registered trade mark for the vindication of the
> exclusive right to the use of the trade mark in relation to those goods"
> "if the essential features of the trade mark of the plaintiff have been
> adopted by the defendant, the fact that the get-up, packing and other
> writing or marks on the goods or on the packets in which he offers his goods
> for sale show marked differences, or indicate clearly a trade origin
> different from that of the registered proprietor of the make would be
> immaterial"
> ii. In the case of American Home Products v. Mac Laboratories AIR 1986 SC
> 137 in Para 36 it was held as under:
> "When a person gets his trade mark registered, he acquires valuable rights
> by reason of such registration. Registration of his trade mark give him the
> exclusive right to the use of the trade mark in connection with the goods in
> respect of which it is registered and if there is any invasion of this right
> by any other person using a mark which is the same or deceptively similar to
> his trade mark, he can protect his trade mark by an action for infringement
> in which he can CS (OS) No.803/2010 Page 15 of 29 obtain injunction...."
> iii. In the case of National Bell Co. v. Metal Goods Mfg. Co. AIR 1971 SC
> 898 at page 903 it was held as under:
> "On registration of a trade mark the registered proprietor gets under
> Section 28 the exclusive right to the use of such trade marks in relation to
> the goods in respect of which the trade mark is registered and to obtain
> relief in respect of any infringement of such trade mark."
> iv. M/s Avis International Ltd. vs. M/s Avi Footwear Industries and another,
> reported in AIR 1991 Delhi 22,the relevant paras of which read as under:
> "14. At this stage of the case, we have no affidavit against another
> affidavit, and in view of the statutory provisions of Ss. 28 and 31 of the
> Trade and Merchandise Marks Act, it would be appropriate to rely upon
> contentions of the plaintiffs.
> 17\. In my view, the statutory monopoly which has been conferred upon the
> plaintiffs in connection with use of the mark AVIS for any other
> consideration in relation to grant or non-grant of an injunction, especially
> when the matter is at an interlocutory stage...
24\. So in the present case, it is not disputed by defendant that the
plaintiff is holding the registration of the mark Marvel in respect of rice.
The defendant has not challenged the trademark of the plaintiff by filing of
rectification application. Thus, in view of settled law, prima facie, case of
infringement of trademark is made out.
25\. The judgment passed in the case of Midas Hygiene vs. Sudhir Bhatia and
Ors., reported in 2004 (28) PTC 121 (SC) Para-5, it was held as under:
CS (OS) No.803/2010 Page 16 of 29
> "The grant of injunction also becomes necessary if it prima facie appears
> that the adoption of the Mark was itself dishonest."
26\. As regards issue No.2 as to whether the trademark used by the defendant
is deceptively similar or not, it appears that the defendant is using the
essential feature of the mark MARVEL is admittedly in respect of the goods,
i.e. hybrid rice used by the defendant. Even, most of the invoices filed by
the defendant show that the trademark MARVEL is used exclusively. The law
pertaining to the essential feature of the mark is quite and clear. The
Division Bench of this Court in the case of M/s. Atlas Cycle Industries Lid.
vs. Hind Cycle Ltd., reported in ILR 1973 Delhi 393 has dealt with some issues
in great details. The findings given by the Bench are reproduced as follows:
> "In an action for an alleged infringement of a registered trade mark, it has
> first to be seen whether the impugned mark of the defendant is identical
> with the registered mark of the plaintiff. If the mark is found to be
> identical, no further question arises, and it has to be held that there was
> infringement. If the mark of the defendant is not identical, it has to be
> seen whether the mark of the defendant is receptively similar in the sense
> that it is likely to deceive or cause confusion in relation to goods in
> respect of which the plaintiff got his mark registered. For that purpose,
> the two marks have to be compared, 'not by placing them side by side. but by
> asking itself whether having due regard to relevant surrounding
> circumstances, the defendant's mark as used is similar to the plaintiff's
> mark as it would be remembered by persons possessed of an average memory
> with its usual imperfections', and it has then to be determined whether the
> defendant's mark is likely to deceive or cause confusion".
27\. In Taw Manufacturing Coy. Lid. v. Notek Engineering Coy. Ltd. and
another, reported in (1951) 68 RPC 271(2), the CS (OS) No.803/2010 Page 17 of
29 monopoly right claimed under the registered trade mark related to Motor
Lamps and consisted of a pictorial device and the word "Taw". The device
comprised of a representation of the full-faced view of a cat's head, wherein
the eyes were drawn in. the form of a motor ear headlamps and the whole was
superimposed upon an open body motor ear viewed from the front in a manner as
to substitute the cat's head for She bonnet and radiator as normally seen. The
device that was the subject matter of challenge consisted of a square panel
with informative particulars printed below. The panel depicted a full-faced
view of a cat's head with the eyes drawn as motor car headlamps, beneath which
was the caption ''Let Notek be your eyes in fog and darkness". The disposition
and lettering was such as to lead the render to lake particular notice of the
device with the word "Notek" beneath it. The question for decision was whether
there was infringement by the latter device of the former registered trade
mark. The Court held:
> "A trade mark is infringed if a person other than the registered proprietor
> or authorised user uses, in relation to goods covered by the registration,
> one or more of the trade mark's essential particulars. The identification of
> an essential feature depends partly upon the Court's own judgment and partly
> upon the burden of the evidence that is placed before the Court".
28\. In the case of Kedar Nath vs. Monga Perfumery & Flour Mills, Delhi-6,
reported in AIR 1974 Delhi 12, under the similar circumstances, the Court held
that the case of infringement of the trademark is made out. The two rival
trademarks in the said case were SUDERSHAN and VIJAY SUDERSHAN. The relevant
paras-13, 14 & 15 of the said judgment read as under:-
CS (OS) No.803/2010 Page 18 of 29
> "13. The certificate of registration of the trademark is Prima facie
> evidence of the validity thereof under Section 31 of the Act. The
> registration of the trade mark, if valid, elves to the registered proprietor
> of the trade mark under Section 28 of the Act the exclusive right to its use
> in relation to the goods in respect of which it is registered and further to
> obtain relief in respect of its infringement in the manner provided by the
> Act. Under Section 29(1) of the Act:
> "29. (1) A registered trade mark is infringed by a person who not being the
> registered proprietor of the trade mark or a registered user thereof using
> by way of permitted use uses in the course of trade a mark which is
> identical with, or deceptively similar to the trade mark, in relation to any
> goods in respect of which the trade mark is registered and in such manner as
> to render the use of the mark likely to be taken as being used as a trade
> mark."
> 14\. xxxxxxxxxxxxx On an ocular examination it appears that there is close
> similarity and identity in the essential features of the two cartons. In my
> opinion the carton, mark and the label etc. of the defendant constitute a
> clear infringement of the plaintiff's registered trademark and of his
> statutory right to its exclusive use. The infringement of the registered
> trademark of the plaintiff committed by the defendant, being contrary to the
> provisions of Section 28, is illegal and defendant cannot be allowed to
> continue in its illegal activity. The balance of convenience is in favor of
> the plaintiff. The defendant has several other brands of dhoop and he can
> carry on his business of selling dhoop-batti in the other brands. As the
> defendant has failed to place material facts before the Court from which it
> can be inferred that the defendant has been using his trade mark since 1952,
> 1 have not considered it necessary to put the plaintiff on terms. The
> plaintiff ' has a statutory right to the exclusive use of the trademark. He
> complains of infringement. To protect his right in the property, far
> trademark is a property; an injunction should be issued in his favor.
CS (OS) No.803/2010 Page 19 of 29
> 15\. I would, therefore, accept the application, I. A. 1032 of 1972 and
> grant a temporary injunction to the, Petitioner restraining the respondent,
> its servants, agents, representatives from manufacturing, selling or
> offering for sale or otherwise dealing in dhoop bearing the trade mark
> Sudershan with or without any prefix or suffix and from printing
> reproducing, using wrappers and cartons as are identical or deceptively
> similar to the wrappers and cartons of the petitioner."
29\. In the case of James Chadwick & Bros. Lid. vs. The National Sewin Thread
Co. Ltd.; AIR 1951 Bom 147 the Court ruled that in an action for infringement
what is important is to find out what was the distinguishing or essential
feature of the trade mark already registered and what is the main feature or
the main idea underlying the trade mark. In Parle Products (f) Ltd. v. J.P. &
Co. Mysore.: [1972] 3 SCR 289 the Supreme Court took the same view.
In view of the settled law as referred above, it is clear that two marks are
deceptively similar to each other. Thus, issue No.2 is decided in favour of
the plaintiff.
30\. Now, coming to the third issue pertaining to the passing off, the
following are the essential characteristics of an action of passing off:-
(A) In Erven Warnink B.V. v. J. Townend & Sons (Hull) Ltd., 1980 RPC 31, Lord
Diplock stated the essential characteristics of a passing off action as under:
> "(1) misrepresentation, (2) made by a person in the course of trade, (3) to
> prospective customers of his or ultimate consumers of goods or services
> supplied by him (4) which is calculated to injure the business or goodwill
> of another trader (in the sense that this is a reasonably forseable
> consequence and (5) which causes actual damage to a business or goodwill of
> the trader by whom the action is brought or (in a quia CS (OS) No.803/2010
> Page 20 of 29 timet action) will probably do so."
(B) The essentials of passing off action in Halsbury's Laws of England Vol. 38
(3rd Edition) para 998 as given below are worth noting:
> "998. Essentials of the cause of action The plaintiff must prove that the
> disputed name, mark, sign or get up has become distinctive of his goods in
> the sense that by the use of his name or mark, etc in relation to goods they
> are regarded, by a substantial number of members of the public or in the
> trade, as coming from a particular source, known or unknown; it is not
> necessary that the name of the plaintiff's firm should be known.....The
> plaintiff must further prove that the defendant's use of name or mark was
> likely or calculated to deceive, and thus cause confusion and injury, actual
> or probable, to the goodwill and the plaintiff's business, as for example,
> by depriving him of the profit that he might have had by selling the goods
> which ex hypothesi, the purchaser intended to buy. Thus, the cause of action
> involves a combination of distinctiveness of the plaintiff's name or mark
> and an injurious use by the defendant of the name or mark or a similar name
> or mark, sign, picture or get-up does or does not amount to passing off is
> in substance a question of evidence; the question whether the matter
> complained of is likely to deceive is a question for the Court."
31\. The judgment passed in the case of Laxmikant Patel vs. Chetanbhai Shah,
reported in (2002) 3 SCC 65, the relevant para 10 of which reads as under:-
> "The law does not permit any one to carry on his business in such a way as
> would persuade the customers or clients in believing that his goods or
> services belonging to someone else are his or are associated therewith. It
> does not matter whether the latter person does so fraudulently or otherwise.
> The reasons are two. Firstly, honesty and fair play are, and CS (OS)
> No.803/2010 Page 21 of 29 ought to be, the basic policies in the world of
> business. Secondly, when a person adopts or intends to adopt a name in
> connection with his business or services which already belongs to someone
> else it results in confusion and has propensity of diverting the customers
> and clients of someone else to himself and thereby resulting in injury."
> In this case, the Apex Court further observed that:
> "Where there is probability of confusion in business, an injunction will be
> granted even though the defendants adopted the name innocently."
32\. The judgment passed in the case of B.K.Engineering Co. vs. Ubhi
Enterprises and Anr., reported in 1985 PTC 1, Para-57, it was held as under:-
"Trading must not only be honest but must not even unintentionally be unfair."
33\. In passing off action, it is held in various cases include in the case of
Century Traders Vs. Roshan Lal Duggar, reported in AIR 1978 Delhi 250 (DB)
referred by counsel for the defendants that actual deception is not necessary
in order to establish the case of passing off.
34\. As regards the goods, i.e. tea and hybrid rice, it is not disputed by the
learned counsel for the defendant that the plaintiff is holding the
registration in respect of rice. The counsel has also not disputed the fact
that the plaintiff has been using the mark Marvel in extensive way and it has
acquired goodwill and reputation in respect of tea business. In passing off
action, the mark can be protected in relation to dis-similar goods in case of
chance of likelihood of confusion and deception and a case with that regard is
made out. The following decisions are referred in this regard:-
CS (OS) No.803/2010 Page 22 of 29
> (a) L.R.C. International Limited and another v. Lilla Edets Sales Company
> Limited, reported in 1983 RPC 560, wherein an action of passing off held to
> a maintainable by a manufacturer of household gloves and plastic pants for
> babies, employing the trade mark "Marigold" against a party that had adopted
> the said trade mark for toilet tissues and prayer for interlocutory
> injunction to restrain this passing off was allowed upholding the contention
> that the goods were sold through the same shops on the same counter and
> bought by house- wives and also taking into consideration the plea that the
> plaintiffs planned to extend the area of their operations by going in future
> in to manufacture of toilet tissues also and they were thus entitled to
> protection. In this case, the plea that when placed side by side, the
> respective trademarks could be observed to be not exactly similar was also
> rejected, on the view that where there is general similarity in details,
> particularly when the marks are not seen side by side, and when those
> similarities are striking then the party adopting the trade mark or trading
> style at a later point of time has to be restrained, and that it was not
> possible to imagine that confusion would not in fact result.
> (b) Lego System Aktieselskab and Another v. Lego M. Lemeistrich Ltd., Fleet
> Street Reports (1983) page 154, in which it was held that once it is shown
> that the plaintiff had acquired high reputation in the trade mark (Lego in
> the case) which were trading in toys and construction kits, there could be
> no limitation in respect of parties' field, and activities so far as passing
> off action was concerned and in case there was likelihood of a person being
> misled that the goods marketed by the defendant were products of the
> plaintiff or connected with them, injunction should issue. The contention as
> to actual damages being proved as an essential ingredient for getting relief
> was also rejected, although defendant's activity consisted of manufacturing
> of irrigation equipment including garden sprinklers for the reason that both
> sets of goods were made of coloured plastic material and it was held on the
> basis of judgment in the case of Advocate that as a necessary ingredient to
> found a cause of action in passing off, there was no CS (OS) No.803/2010
> Page 23 of 29 limitation as to the relation of field of activity of the
> defendant to that of the plaintiff.
> (c) In the case of Banga Watch Company vs. N.V. Philiphs, reported in AIR
> 1983 P&H 418, the plaintiff M/s. N.V. Philliphs was using the trade mark
> PHILLIPHS, which had become a household mark and acquired enviable
> reputation in India and throughout the world dealing in electrical and
> electronics goods. The defendant was using the trade mark PHILLIPHS in
> request of watches and clocks.
> (d) In the case of Bata India Ltd. vs. Pyare Lal & Co., reported in AIR 1985
> All. 242, the plaintiff was using the trade mark in respect of canvas,
> rubber, leather shoes, rubber footwear, etc., whereas the defendant started
> using the trade mark Bata and Batafoam in relation to mattresses. The Court
> after discussing in detail the law on passing off action granted injunction
> in favor of the plaintiff despite the fact that the same trade mark was
> being used for different goods.
35\. After having considered the abovementioned decisions and facts and
circumstances in the matter, it appears to me that the plaintiff has been able
to make out a prima facie case of passing off also.
36\. One more aspect of the matter is that when the suit was listed first time
before court along with interim application. An ex-parte ad- interim
injunction was granted on 28.04.2010 whereby the defendant was restrained from
manufacturing or trading any goods in the class 30 of the Trade Marks Act
under the impugned trade mark MARVEL. The said order has not been vacated so
far but counsel for the defendant has informed the Court that since the
interim order was not extended after the order passed on 28th April, 2010,
therefore, the defendant has been using the same as it was passed till the
next date. As no arguments were addressed by the learned counsel for the
plaintiff in this aspect, hence no order is passed accordingly.
CS (OS) No.803/2010 Page 24 of 29
37\. Lastly the learned counsel for the defendant has argued that there is a
delay on the part of the plaintiff in bringing the action before this court.
Let me mention here that no clear and cogent evidence has been produced by the
defendant regarding user claimed except few invoices from the period 2007,
2008 and 2009 have been filed. No separate sale and advertisement figures have
been filed bearing the mark Marvel so as advertisement material. Thus, it is
very difficult to give the benefit of user as claimed by the defendant. Few
decisions on the aspect of delay are referred as under:
> a) In the case of Midas Hygiene Industries Pvt. Ltd. vs. Sudhir Bhatia and
> others, 2004 (Vol.28) PTC 121, relevant para-5 of the said judgment is as
> under:
> "5. The law on the subject is well settled. In cases of infringement either
> of Trade Mark or of Copyright normally an injunction must follow. Mere delay
> in bringing action is not sufficient to defeat grant of injunction in such
> cases. The grant of injunction also becomes necessary if it prima facie
> appears that the adoption of the Mark was itself dishonest."
> b) In the case of Swarn Singh vs. Usha Industries (India) and Anr., AIR 1986
> Delhi Page No.343 (DB) it was held as under :
> "There is then the question of delay. Learned counsel for the respondents
> had urged that the delay is fatal to the grant of an injunction. We are not
> so satisfied. A delay in the matter of seeking an injunction may be aground
> for refusing an injunction in certain circumstances. In the present case, we
> are dealing with a statutory right based on the provisions of the trade and
> Merchandise Marks Act, 1958. An exclusive right is granted by the
> registration to the holder of a registered trade mark. We do not think
> statutory rights can be lost by delay. The effect of a registered mark is so
> clearly CS (OS) No.803/2010 Page 25 of 29 defined in the statute as to be
> not capable of being misunderstood. Even if there is some delay, the
> exclusive right cannot be lost. The registered mark cannot be reduced to a
> nullity....."
> c) In the case of Hindustan Pencils Pvt. Ltd. Vs. M/s India Stationery
> Products Co., AIR 1990 DELHI 19 it was held as under :
> "................. It was observed by Romer, J. in the matter of an
> application brought by J.R. Parkingnon and Co. Ltd., (1946) 63 RPC 171 at
> page 181 that "in my judgment, the circumstances which attend the adoption
> of a trade mark in the first instance are of considerable importance when
> one comes to consider whether the use of that mark has or has not been a
> honest user. If the user in its inception was tainted it would be difficult
> in most cases to purify it subsequently". It was further noted by the
> learned Judge in that case that he could not regard the discreditable origin
> of the user as cleansed by the subsequent history."
> d) In the case of M/s. Bengal Waterproof Lim. Vs. M/s. Bombay Waterproof
> Manufacturing Co. AIR 1997 SC 1398 it was held as under :
> "20.........It is now well settled that an action for passing off is a
> common law remedy being an action in substance of deceit under the Law of
> Torts. Wherever and whenever fresh deceitful act is committed the person
> deceived would naturally have a fresh cause of action in his favour. Thus
> every time when a person passes off his goods as those of another he commits
> the act of such deceit. Similarly whenever and wherever a person commits
> breach of a registered trade mark of another he commits a recurring act of
> breach or infringement of such trade mark giving a recurring and fresh cause
> of action at each time of such infringement to the party aggrieved. It is
> difficult to agree how in such a case when in historical past earlier suit
> was disposed of as technically not maintainable in absence of CS (OS)
> No.803/2010 Page 26 of 29 proper relief, for all times to come in future
> defendant of such a suit should be armed with a license to go on committing
> fresh acts of infringement and passing off with impunity without being
> subjected to any legal action against such future acts."
38\. From the material produced by the defendant, it appears from the
documents that the defendant has merely filed few invoices for the years 2007,
2008 and 2009 for use of the trademark MARVEL. There is no continuous evidence
available on record or advertisement in the newspaper to establish that the
plaintiff was aware about the user of the defendant, if any, from the year of
user as claimed by the defendant. In any case, in an action for infringement
the delay is not fatal.
39\. Considering the overall facts and circumstances of the case, the
plaintiff has been able to make out a strong prima-facie case for affirmation
of the interim order earlier passed on 28th April, 2010. The balance of
convenience also lies in favour of the plaintiff and against the defendant. In
case the interim order is not passed, the plaintiff will suffer irreparable
loss and injury because the defendant is using the same trademark MARVEL in
respect of hybrid rice in which the plaintiff has got the registration and is
already having a unique goodwill and reputation in relation to the trademark
MARVEL in respect of tea business.
40\. Having regard to all these circumstances, the present application is
allowed. Thus, till the disposal of the present suit, the defendant is hereby
restrained from manufacturing, selling, offering for sale, advertising,
directly or indirectly dealing in all the goods falling in class 30 and 31
bearing the mark MARVEL as and/or any other trade CS (OS) No.803/2010 Page 27
of 29 mark, as may be identical with and/or deceptively and confusingly
similar to the plaintiff‟s registered trade mark "MARVEL" which results in
infringement of trade mark of the plaintiff so as to pass off or enable others
to pass off the defendant‟s goods/product and/or business and/or services as
and for the goods/products/business and service of the plaintiff and/or some
way connected with the plaintiff. The application is accordingly disposed of.
41\. However, the defendant is granted six months‟ time to dispose of the
existing material, if any, bearing the trademark NUSUN MARVEL.
42\. The findings given herein are tentative which shall not have bearing in
any manner when the matter would be considered by the Court after the trial.
CS(OS) No.803/2010 The issues in this matter have already been framed. Both
the parties have already filed their respective affidavits as evidence. The
matter is at the stage of trial which is expedited. Accordingly, Sh. S.K.
Tandon (retired Additional and Sessions Judge, Delhi) (Mob. 9811719888), is
appointed as a Court Commissioner to record the evidence of the parties. He
shall make endeavour to complete the evidence of the parties within a period
of 6-9 months. Let the matter be listed before the Court Commissioner on 2nd
August, 2012 at 4:00 pm for directions regarding the recording of evidence of
the parties in the High Court premises. His fee is fixed at Rs.60,000/- which
shall be paid by the plaintiff. The remaining fee would be fixed, if
necessary, depending upon the evidence and time consumed in the matter. The
Dealing CS (OS) No.803/2010 Page 28 of 29 Assistant of the matter will produce
the record of the case before the Court Commissioner on all the dates fixed by
him for the purpose of recording the evidence of the parties. He be paid diet
money as per rules, by the parties concerned. The parties are also granted
liberty to take the assistance of the Registry for the purpose of summoning
the witness(s). A copy of this order be sent to the Court Commissioner.
MANMOHAN SINGH, J.
JULY 02, 2012 CS (OS) No.803/2010 Page 29 of 29
any manner when the matter would be considered by the Court after the trial.
CS(OS) No.803/2010 The issues in this matter have already been framed. Both
the parties have already filed their respective affidavits as evidence. The
matter is at the stage of trial which is expedited. Accordingly, Sh. S.K.
Tandon (retired Additional and Sessions Judge, Delhi) (Mob. 9811719888), is
appointed as a Court Commissioner to record the evidence of the parties. He
shall make endeavour to complete the evidence of the parties within a period
of 6-9 months. Let the matter be listed before the Court Commissioner on 2nd
August, 2012 at 4:00 pm for directions regarding the recording of evidence of
the parties in the High Court premises. His fee is fixed at Rs.60,000/- which
shall be paid by the plaintiff. The remaining fee would be fixed, if
necessary, depending upon the evidence and time consumed in the matter. The
Dealing CS (OS) No.803/2010 Page 28 of 29 Assistant of the matter will produce
the record of the case before the Court Commissioner on all the dates fixed by
him for the purpose of recording the evidence of the parties. He be paid diet
money as per rules, by the parties concerned. The parties are also granted
the word "Marvel" from marketing, selling, offering for sale, advertising
directly dealing in goods Hybrid Rice or use the same with any prefix amount
to infringement of plaintiffs‟ trade mark.
2\. The case of the plaintiff is that:-
(a) The plaintiff is part of Marvel Group of Companies engaged in the business
of manufacturing and marketing of goods like tea, soaps, detergent, bleaching
preparation, bearing the trade mark Marvel.
CS (OS) No.803/2010 Page 1 of 29
(b) The trademark was adopted and conceived the said trade mark Marvel in the
year 1994. In the application it is averred that the plaintiff had come to
know the illegal trade of the defendant‟s goods. Defendant was using the trade
mark "Nusun Marvel" in their goods and the same were being sold and no formal
billing was made.
(c) It is further averred in the application that the plaintiff conducted a
public search on the web site of the Trade Marks Registry and thereafter it
was revealed that defendant had applied for registration of trade mark Nusun
Marvel on 2nd June, 2009 vide application No. 1824521 wherein the defendant
has claimed to be an user since 1st June, 2005\. The plaintiff further alleges
that the defendant had been selling/manufacturing goods under Class 30, 31 in
a clandestine manner.
any manner when the matter would be considered by the Court after the trial.
CS(OS) No.803/2010 The issues in this matter have already been framed. Both
the parties have already filed their respective affidavits as evidence. The
matter is at the stage of trial which is expedited. Accordingly, Sh. S.K.
Tandon (retired Additional and Sessions Judge, Delhi) (Mob. 9811719888), is
appointed as a Court Commissioner to record the evidence of the parties. He
shall make endeavour to complete the evidence of the parties within a period
of 6-9 months. Let the matter be listed before the Court Commissioner on 2nd
August, 2012 at 4:00 pm for directions regarding the recording of evidence of
the parties in the High Court premises. His fee is fixed at Rs.60,000/- which
shall be paid by the plaintiff. The remaining fee would be fixed, if
necessary, depending upon the evidence and time consumed in the matter. The
Dealing CS (OS) No.803/2010 Page 28 of 29 Assistant of the matter will produce
the record of the case before the Court Commissioner on all the dates fixed by
him for the purpose of recording the evidence of the parties. He be paid diet
money as per rules, by the parties concerned. The parties are also granted
the word "Marvel" from marketing, selling, offering for sale, advertising
directly dealing in goods Hybrid Rice or use the same with any prefix amount
to infringement of plaintiffs‟ trade mark.
2\. The case of the plaintiff is that:-
(a) The plaintiff is part of Marvel Group of Companies engaged in the business
of manufacturing and marketing of goods like tea, soaps, detergent, bleaching
preparation, bearing the trade mark Marvel.
CS (OS) No.803/2010 Page 1 of 29
(b) The trademark was adopted and conceived the said trade mark Marvel in the
year 1994. In the application it is averred that the plaintiff had come to
know the illegal trade of the defendant‟s goods. Defendant was using the trade
mark "Nusun Marvel" in their goods and the same were being sold and no formal
billing was made.
(c) It is further averred in the application that the plaintiff conducted a
public search on the web site of the Trade Marks Registry and thereafter it
was revealed that defendant had applied for registration of trade mark Nusun
Marvel on 2nd June, 2009 vide application No. 1824521 wherein the defendant
has claimed to be an user since 1st June, 2005\. The plaintiff further alleges
that the defendant had been selling/manufacturing goods under Class 30, 31 in
a clandestine manner.
any manner when the matter would be considered by the Court after the trial.
CS(OS) No.803/2010 The issues in this matter have already been framed. Both
the parties have already filed their respective affidavits as evidence. The
matter is at the stage of trial which is expedited. Accordingly, Sh. S.K.
Tandon (retired Additional and Sessions Judge, Delhi) (Mob. 9811719888), is
appointed as a Court Commissioner to record the evidence of the parties. He
shall make endeavour to complete the evidence of the parties within a period
of 6-9 months. Let the matter be listed before the Court Commissioner on 2nd
August, 2012 at 4:00 pm for directions regarding the recording of evidence of
the parties in the High Court premises. His fee is fixed at Rs.60,000/- which
shall be paid by the plaintiff. The remaining fee would be fixed, if
necessary, depending upon the evidence and time consumed in the matter. The
Dealing CS (OS) No.803/2010 Page 28 of 29 Assistant of the matter will produce
the record of the case before the Court Commissioner on all the dates fixed by
him for the purpose of recording the evidence of the parties. He be paid diet
money as per rules, by the parties concerned. The parties are also granted
the word "Marvel" from marketing, selling, offering for sale, advertising
directly dealing in goods Hybrid Rice or use the same with any prefix amount
to infringement of plaintiffs‟ trade mark.
2\. The case of the plaintiff is that:-
(a) The plaintiff is part of Marvel Group of Companies engaged in the business
of manufacturing and marketing of goods like tea, soaps, detergent, bleaching
preparation, bearing the trade mark Marvel.
CS (OS) No.803/2010 Page 1 of 29
(b) The trademark was adopted and conceived the said trade mark Marvel in the
year 1994. In the application it is averred that the plaintiff had come to
know the illegal trade of the defendant‟s goods. Defendant was using the trade
mark "Nusun Marvel" in their goods and the same were being sold and no formal
billing was made.
(c) It is further averred in the application that the plaintiff conducted a
public search on the web site of the Trade Marks Registry and thereafter it
was revealed that defendant had applied for registration of trade mark Nusun
Marvel on 2nd June, 2009 vide application No. 1824521 wherein the defendant
has claimed to be an user since 1st June, 2005\. The plaintiff further alleges
that the defendant had been selling/manufacturing goods under Class 30, 31 in
a clandestine manner.
(d) The plaintiff further states that the defendant by adopting plaintiff‟s
trademark is causing a loss to the good will of the plaintiff‟s reputation. It
is also causing a deception in the minds of the general public and thereby
creating confusion amongst them. It is also alleged by the plaintiff that
plaintiff‟s goods and defendant‟s goods are so deceptively similar and thus it
is creating a confusion amongst the general consumers. The plaintiff‟s
business and defendant‟s business are similar. Therefore, an order of
injunction is sought by the plaintiff to restrain the defendant from using the
impugned trademark "NUSUN MARVEL".
3\. The defendant-company is an INR 700 crore seed company engaged in research
and development of hybrid seeds for commercial use. The defendant has 190
any manner when the matter would be considered by the Court after the trial.
CS(OS) No.803/2010 The issues in this matter have already been framed. Both
the parties have already filed their respective affidavits as evidence. The
matter is at the stage of trial which is expedited. Accordingly, Sh. S.K.
Tandon (retired Additional and Sessions Judge, Delhi) (Mob. 9811719888), is
appointed as a Court Commissioner to record the evidence of the parties. He
shall make endeavour to complete the evidence of the parties within a period
of 6-9 months. Let the matter be listed before the Court Commissioner on 2nd
August, 2012 at 4:00 pm for directions regarding the recording of evidence of
the parties in the High Court premises. His fee is fixed at Rs.60,000/- which
shall be paid by the plaintiff. The remaining fee would be fixed, if
necessary, depending upon the evidence and time consumed in the matter. The
Dealing CS (OS) No.803/2010 Page 28 of 29 Assistant of the matter will produce
the record of the case before the Court Commissioner on all the dates fixed by
him for the purpose of recording the evidence of the parties. He be paid diet
money as per rules, by the parties concerned. The parties are also granted
the word "Marvel" from marketing, selling, offering for sale, advertising
directly dealing in goods Hybrid Rice or use the same with any prefix amount
to infringement of plaintiffs‟ trade mark.
2\. The case of the plaintiff is that:-
(a) The plaintiff is part of Marvel Group of Companies engaged in the business
of manufacturing and marketing of goods like tea, soaps, detergent, bleaching
preparation, bearing the trade mark Marvel.
CS (OS) No.803/2010 Page 1 of 29
(b) The trademark was adopted and conceived the said trade mark Marvel in the
year 1994. In the application it is averred that the plaintiff had come to
know the illegal trade of the defendant‟s goods. Defendant was using the trade
mark "Nusun Marvel" in their goods and the same were being sold and no formal
billing was made.
(c) It is further averred in the application that the plaintiff conducted a
public search on the web site of the Trade Marks Registry and thereafter it
was revealed that defendant had applied for registration of trade mark Nusun
Marvel on 2nd June, 2009 vide application No. 1824521 wherein the defendant
has claimed to be an user since 1st June, 2005\. The plaintiff further alleges
that the defendant had been selling/manufacturing goods under Class 30, 31 in
a clandestine manner.
(d) The plaintiff further states that the defendant by adopting plaintiff‟s
trademark is causing a loss to the good will of the plaintiff‟s reputation. It
is also causing a deception in the minds of the general public and thereby
creating confusion amongst them. It is also alleged by the plaintiff that
plaintiff‟s goods and defendant‟s goods are so deceptively similar and thus it
is creating a confusion amongst the general consumers. The plaintiff‟s
business and defendant‟s business are similar. Therefore, an order of
injunction is sought by the plaintiff to restrain the defendant from using the
impugned trademark "NUSUN MARVEL".
3\. The defendant-company is an INR 700 crore seed company engaged in research
and development of hybrid seeds for commercial use. The defendant has 190
any manner when the matter would be considered by the Court after the trial.
CS(OS) No.803/2010 The issues in this matter have already been framed. Both
the parties have already filed their respective affidavits as evidence. The
matter is at the stage of trial which is expedited. Accordingly, Sh. S.K.
Tandon (retired Additional and Sessions Judge, Delhi) (Mob. 9811719888), is
appointed as a Court Commissioner to record the evidence of the parties. He
shall make endeavour to complete the evidence of the parties within a period
of 6-9 months. Let the matter be listed before the Court Commissioner on 2nd
August, 2012 at 4:00 pm for directions regarding the recording of evidence of
the parties in the High Court premises. His fee is fixed at Rs.60,000/- which
shall be paid by the plaintiff. The remaining fee would be fixed, if
necessary, depending upon the evidence and time consumed in the matter. The
Dealing CS (OS) No.803/2010 Page 28 of 29 Assistant of the matter will produce
the record of the case before the Court Commissioner on all the dates fixed by
him for the purpose of recording the evidence of the parties. He be paid diet
money as per rules, by the parties concerned. The parties are also granted
