Bombay High Court
Tips Industries Ltd vs Wynk Ltd. And Anr on 23 April, 2019
Bench: S.J. Kathawalla
    Nitin                                       1 / 104
                IN THE HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE AT BOMBAY
                      ORDINARY ORIGINAL CIVIL JURISDICTION
                               IN ITS COMMERCIAL DIVISION
                         NOTICE OF MOTION (L) NO. 197 OF 2018
                                                  IN
                        COMMERCIAL SUIT IP (L) NO. 114 OF 2018
                                                 AND
                        NOTICE OF MOTION (L) NO. 198 OF 2018
                                                  IN
                       COMMERCIAL SUIT IP (L) NO. 113 OF 2018
    Tips Industries Ltd.                                        ...        Plaintif
    Versus
    Wynk Music Ltd. & Anr.                                      ...        Defendants
    Mr. Ravi Kadam, Senior Advocate a/w Mr. Venkatesh Dhond, Senior Advocate
    alongwith Mr. Rohan Kadam, i/b Mrs. Ujawala Kamat for the Plaintif.
    Mr. Aspi Chinoy, Senior Advocate alongwith Ms. Vanditta Hedge, Ms. Ekta Asrani
nature of Section 31-D cannot be denied. In view of the reasons stated
hereinabove, I am of the opinion that the Defendants cannot invoke a Statutory
License under Section 31-D in respect of their impugned activities.
118\. In view of what has been stated hereinabove, I am of the opinion that
the Plaintif has made out a prima facie case for grant of interim injunction
against the Defendants. The injury or harm which would be caused to the
Plaintif, in case the interim injunction is not granted, is certainly
irreparable. Considering the fact that I have come to a conclusion that in so
far as the download and purchase feature of the Defendants' activities are
concerned the same amount to  ::: Uploaded on - 06/05/2019 ::: Downloaded on -
07/04/2020 14:53:42 ::: Nitin 104 / 104 infringement of the Plaintif's rights
provided in Section 14(1)(e)(ii) of the Act; in so far as the on demand
streaming services of the Defendants are concerned, the same amount to
infringement of the Plaintif's right provided in Section 14(1)
(e)(iii) of the Act; and that the provisions of Section 31-D of the Act are
not applicable to internet broadcasting, it is necessary to grant reliefs in
    Mr. Aspi Chinoy, Senior Advocate alongwith Ms. Vanditta Hedge, Ms. Ekta Asrani
    and Ms. Sayli i/b Singh and Singh and Malhotra and Hedge for the Defendant No. 1 in
    COMIP(L) Nl. 114 of 2018
    Dr. B.B. Saraf a/w Ms. Vaditta Hedge, Ms. Ekta Asrani and Ms. Sayli i/b /b Singh and
    Singh and Malhotra and Hedge for the Defendant No. 1 in COMIP(L) Nl. 113 of 2018
                                                  CORAM:   S.J. KATHAWALLA, J.
                                                  DATE:    23rd APRIL, 2019
    JUDGMENT :
SR.NO. PARTICULARS PAGE NOS.
1 EVENTS LEADING TO THE TWO SUITS 6
::: Uploaded on - 06/05/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 07/04/2020 14:53:42 ::: Nitin
2 / 104 2 NATURE OF DEFENDANTS' SERVICES IMPUGNED BY THE  PLAINTIFF 10 3
ISSUES 11 4 ISSUE A  12 WHETHER THE DEFENDANTS ARE INFRINGING UPON THE
PLAINTIFF'S COPYRIGHT WITHIN THE PLAINTIFF'S REPERTOIRE AS PROVIDED FOR IN
SECTION 14(1)(e) OF THE ACT ?
5 ISSUE A (i)  28 WHETHER THE USE OF THE PLAINTIFF'S REPERTOIRE BY THE
DEFENDANTS' CUSTOMERS BE CONSIDERED "FAIR USE" UNDER SECTION 52(1)(a)(i) OF
THE ACT?
6 ISSUE A (ii)  35 WHETHER THE STORAGE OF SOUND RECORDINGS UPON THE
DEFENDANTS' CUSTOMERS' DEVICES CAN BE CONSIDERED TRANSIENT OR INCIDENTAL TO
THE SERVICES PROVIDED BY THE DEFENDANTS, AS PROVIDED IN SECTION 52(1)(a)(b) OF
THE ACT?
7 ISSUE A (iii)  40 WHETHER THE DEFENDANTS CAN INVOKE SECTION  ::: Uploaded on
- 06/05/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 07/04/2020 14:53:42 ::: Nitin 3 / 104 31-D OF
THE ACT TO EXERCISE A STATUTORY LICENSE IN RESPECT OF THEIR DOWNLOAD/PURCHASE
BUSINESS ?
8 ISSUE B 46 WHETHER THE DEFENDANTS CAN INVOKE SECTION 31-D OF THE ACT TO
EXERCISE A STATUTORY LICENSE IN RESPECT OF THE PLAINTIFF'S REPERTOIRE FOR
INTERNET BROADCASTING ?
9 ISSUE C 81 WHETHER RULE 29 OF THE COPYRIGHT RULES, 2013 ("THE RULES") AND
THE THIRD PROVISO THERETO ARE INVALID?
10 ISSUE D 85 WHAT IS THE BEARING OF THE GOVERNMENT OF INDIA'S OFFICE
MEMORANDUM DATED 5TH SEPTEMBER 2016 ON THE PRESENT MATTER ?
11 ISSUE E 88 WHETHER PENDING THE SUIT, THE DEFENDANTS MAY BE PERMITTED TO USE
THE PLAINTIFF'S REPERTOIRE UPON PAYMENT OF DEPOSIT ?
12 ISSUE F  ::: Uploaded on - 06/05/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 07/04/2020
14:53:42 ::: Nitin 4 / 104  WHETHER THE PLAINTIFF IS ONLY INTERESTED IN 95
MONEY AND THUS INJUNCTION SHOULD NOT BE GRANTED ?
13 CONCLUSION 103
1\. The question which is being answered by this Court in the present matter
is associated with the issue of easy / ready access to music / sound recording
vis-a- vis the restrictions which can be put on the same by the bonafide
owners of copyright in the said music and / or sound recording. The advent of
the internet has irreversibly made a global impact upon the functioning of
society and the music industry is no exception. In the past, a musicophile's
desire to access the latest song album or favourite classic would inevitably
lead him to the doorstep of a record store or have him sifting through the
radio channels on a traditional radio / transistor. Whereas today, any song is
just a couple of clicks away. The rapid technological advancement in the music
industry, has phased out the traditional purchase of records, cassettes,
compact discs, etc. The innovation of online streaming services such as the
services provided by the present Defendants, have rendered the same obsolete
and antiquated. Most users have switched to modern platforms for their music
demands. The Legislature, being conscious of the shift in the industry,
responded with an amendment to the Copyright Act, 1957 (The  ::: Uploaded on -
06/05/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 07/04/2020 14:53:42 ::: Nitin 5 / 104 Copyright
Amendment Act, 2012). However, a few provisions of the copyright law, which
are the subject matter of this proceeding / decision and pertain to these
services require delineation.
2\. The Plaintif is presently seeking an order of temporary injunction against
the Defendants in terms of prayer clauses (a) of both, Notice of Motion (L)
No. 197 of 2018 in Commercial IP Suit (L) No.114 of 2018 and Notice of Motion
(L) No. 198 of 2018 in Commercial IP Suit (L) No.113 of 2018, which are
reproduced hereunder:
> Notice of Motion (L) No. 197 of 2018 in Commercial IP Suit (L) No.114 of
> 2018
> (a) Pending hearing and final disposal of the Suit, a temporary Order and
> injunction restraining the Defendants, their servants, directors, agents or
> any other persons/entity claiming through or under them from in any manner,
> directly or indirectly, exploiting the reproduction rights, issue rights and
> commercial rental rights/rights of sale underlying the Plaintiff's copyright
> in its Repertoire (at Exhibit B") by way of providing download
> services/features on the musical portal www.wynk.in and WAP/mobile sites and
> WYNK applications via the consumer offerings and/or any other
> feature/application providing enabling /permitting /download of the
> Plaintiff's copyrighted works or on / via / through any other website /
> portal / device / application / technology etc. Notice of Motion (L) No.198
> of 2018 in Commercial IP Suit (L) No.113 of 2018  ::: Uploaded on -
> 06/05/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 07/04/2020 14:53:42 ::: Nitin 6 / 104
> (a) Pending the hearing and final disposal of the present Suit, a temporary
> order and injunction restraining the Defendants, their servants, directors,
> agents or any other persons/ entity claiming through or under them from in
> any manner, directly or indirectly, communicating to the public by any
> medium, device, wire or wireless means, and by any mode whatsoever,
> performing, using for interactive streaming and branded non interactive
> curated streaming to the end users on internet enabled digital devices via
> the Defendants' player on the musical portal www.wynk.in and WYNK WAP /
> mobile sites and WYNK Applications via the consumer offering or on / via /
> through any other website / portal / device / application / technology,
> etc., the Plaintiff's Repertoire of sound recordings and images, details and
> particulars of which are given at Exhibit 'B' and "Z" to the Plaint (pgs.
> 20, 79 and 80).
EVENTS LEADING TO THE TWO SUITS
3\. The Plaintif - Tips Industries Ltd., claims to be the owner of the
copyright in over 25,000 sound recordings ("Plaintiff's Repertoire"). The
Defendants own and operate WYNK, an Over the Top Service available on the
internet, smartphones and smart media. Through this service, upon payment of a
subscription fee, the Defendants' customers / subscribers can access numerous
sound recordings and audio-visual recordings including, inter alia, the
Plaintif's Repertoire. The Plaintif's Repertoire was earlier licensed to the
Defendants by the copyright society - Phonographic Performance Limited
("PPL"), under a written License Agreement dated 22nd August 2014. The license
fee  ::: Uploaded on - 06/05/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 07/04/2020 14:53:42 :::
Nitin 7 / 104 apportionable to the Plaintif's content was Rs.1.31 Crores
(Rupees One Crore Thirty One Lakh only) per year. However, this agreement
expired by efflux of time on 31st August 2016.
4\. In or about August 2016, negotiations ensued between the Plaintif and
Defendant No. 1 to arrive at terms for a fresh / renewed license. An extension
letter was emailed to the Plaintif by the Defendants on 24 th August 2016, to
extend the aforesaid license agreement till 31 st October 2016. The Plaintif
who reverted with a signed copy of the letter on 1 st September 2016, agreed
to extend the license till 31st October 2016 on a condition that a written
agreement would be executed by then, failing which, use by the Defendants
would be discontinued by 7th November 2016 with a liability to pay for usage
during this period. The Defendants thereafter, from October 2016, began
sharing proposals with the Plaintif.
5\. According to the Plaintif, on or around 22nd March 2017, in a meeting
between the Plaintif and Defendants' representative, a Minimum Guaranteed
Amount ("License Fees") of Rs. 4.5 Crores (Rupees Four Crores Fifty Lakh only)
towards the Plaintif's Repertoire was agreed upon for a term of 2 years i.e.
Rs.2 Crores (Rupees Two Crores only) for the first year and Rs.2.5 Crores
(Rupees Two Crores and Fifty Lakhs only) for the second year. The Defendants
dispute that the said figure of Rs.4.5 Crores (Rupees Four Crores and Fifty
Lakhs only) was ever agreed upon. According to the Defendants, the said figure
was not  ::: Uploaded on - 06/05/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 07/04/2020 14:53:42
::: Nitin 8 / 104 acceptable to the Defendants as the same was excessive and
hence the same was rejected by the Defendants vide their letter dated 24 th
April 2017. Thereafter, correspondence ensued between the parties on these
licence terms, however, the negotiations of the parties inter-se, failed and
the Plaintif on two separate occasions viz. 27th April 2017 and 5th May 2017
requested the Defendants to deactivate the Plaintif's Repertoire on the WYNK
platform. According to the Plaintif, these requests were not complied with by
the Defendants.
6\. The Plaintif, thereafter, issued a cease and desist notice dated 17 th
November 2017 to the Defendants, calling upon them to deactivate / remove the
Plaintif's Repertoire from the WYNK platforms. The said cease and desist
notice recorded the history of negotiations between the parties. The relevant
portion from the said cease and desist notice dated 17th November 2017 is
reproduced hereinbelow:
> "Since the last 16 months, we have continued to support Wynk and have not
> removed our content from the service. In the spirit of partnership, we have
> continued promoting Wynk on our social media platforms & have been
> forwarding customers to listen to our content on Wynk."
> ...We have been in negotiation with the Wynk team for over a 1.5 years and
> since 23rd March 2017 have maintained our value of Rs 4.5 Cr for 2 years.
> This price was discounted from our first ask of Rs 7 Cr. ... We have also
> asked Wynk to take a decision regarding the Tips content and are yet to hear
> back. Hence we are now instructing Wynk to deactivate all Tips Music Content
> by 1st December 2017 on the advice of our legal team and our auditors."
::: Uploaded on - 06/05/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 07/04/2020 14:53:42 :::
> Nitin 9 / 104 .....This is not the ideal outcome for us, but since there is
> no movement on the contract we have no other recourse but to instruct the
> deactivation of content."
7\. In reply, the Defendants, by their notice dated 24 th November 2017
(annexed to an email dated 25th November 2017) invoked Section 31-D of the
Copyright Act, 1957 ("the Act") claiming themselves to be a broadcasting
organisation / broadcasters. In short, the Defendants claimed that they are a
broadcasting organization and that they are entitled to a statutory license
under Section 31-D of the Act to communicate the work to the public by way of
broadcast of the Plaintif's musical work and sound recordings. In response,
the Plaintif addressed a holding letter dated 1st December 2017 to the
Defendants. By their letter dated 8th December 2017, the Defendants reiterated
their stand that they had validly invoked Section 31-D of the Act. The
Plaintif sent its substantive response vide its letter dated 23rd January 2018
and denied the Defendants' right to invoke Section 31-D of the Act and
contended that the invocation of the said section by the Defendants is wholly
illegal and non-est.
8\. On 29th January 2018, the Plaintif therefore filed two Suits against the
Defendants for infringement of copyright thereby disputing the Defendants'
right to avail of the statutory license provided for by Section 31-D of the
Act and on that basis claiming permanent injunction against the Defendants
restraining them from:
::: Uploaded on - 06/05/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 07/04/2020 14:53:42 :::
Nitin 10 / 104 a. communicating to the public the Plaintif's repertoire of
songs (Commercial IP Suit (L) No.113 of 2018); and b. giving on commercial
rental / sale the Plaintif's repertoire of songs by way of providing download
services / features (Commercial IP Suit (L) No.114 of 2018).
NATURE OF DEFENDANTS' SERVICES IMPUGNED BY THE PLAINTIFF
9\. The services / activities of the Defendants as impugned by the Plaintif
can be broadly categorized as follows:
a. Enabling users upon payment of monthly rental fee, to download electronic
copies of the Plaintif's songs on their devices and to enjoy them offline and
without being connected to the internet. (Commercial IP Suit (L) No.114 of
2018).
b. Selling electronic copies of the Plaintif's copyrights repertoire to users
for a flat fee wherein upon payment, users can download these songs and enjoy
them in perpetuity for a one-time payment. (Commercial IP Suit (L) No.114 of
2018).
c. Providing on demand streaming services where the Defendants make the songs
available to public by streaming them online i.e. over internet which  :::
Uploaded on - 06/05/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 07/04/2020 14:53:42 ::: Nitin 11
/ 104 can be accessed through any device connected to internet. (Commercial IP
Suit (L) No.113 of 2018) ISSUES
10\. The learned Senior Advocates appearing for both the sides have argued
extensively. I have heard the submissions in detail and perused the record of
both the Notice of Motions and Suits. The parties have also filed their
respective written submissions. Broadly, the following issues arise for
consideration before me:
A. Whether the Defendants are infringing the Plaintif's copyright in the
Plaintif's Repertoire as provided for in Section 14(1)(e) of the Act? Allied
to this are the following issues:
(i) Whether the use of the Plaintif's Repertoire by the Defendants' customers
be considered "fair use" under Section 52(1)(a)(i) of the Act?
(ii) Whether the storage of sound recordings upon the Defendants' customers'
devices can be considered transient or incidental to the services provided by
the Defendants, as provided in Section 52(1)(b) of the Act?
::: Uploaded on - 06/05/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 07/04/2020 14:53:42 :::
     Nitin                                         12 / 104
                   (iii)     Whether the Defendants can invoke Section 31-D of the Act to
exercise a Statutory License in respect of their download/purchase business?
B. Whether the Defendants can invoke Section 31-D of the Act to exercise a
Statutory License in respect of the Plaintif's Repertoire, for internet
broadcasting?
C. Whether Rule 29 of the Copyright Rules, 2013 ("the Rules") and the third
proviso thereto are invalid?
D. What is the bearing of the Government of India's Office Memorandum dated
5th September 2016 on the present matter?
E. Whether pending the suit, the Defendants may be permitted to use the
Plaintif's Repertoire upon payment of a deposit?
F. Whether the Plaintif is only interested in money and thus injunction should
not be granted?
The rival arguments in respect of the aforesaid issues are dealt with
hereinbelow. ISSUE A: Whether the Defendants are infringing upon the
Plaintiff's copyright in the Plaintiff's Repertoire as provided for in Section
14(1)(e) of the Act?
11\. According to the Plaintif, the Defendants' download business as impugned
in Commercial IP Suit (L) No.114 of 2018 constitutes two separate features /
services viz. (i) download (rental) and (ii) outright purchase. It is
submitted that  ::: Uploaded on - 06/05/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 07/04/2020
14:53:42 ::: Nitin 13 / 104 the download feature permits the Defendants'
customers / subscribers to store offline copies of the sound recordings
available on the WYNK platform, which may be accessed on the "All Downloaded"
tab / page of the WYNK application ("Downloaded Songs") and may be played only
through the said application. Similarly, vide the outright purchase feature,
the Defendants' customers can also procure offline copies of the sound
recordings available on the WYNK platform which are accessible on the "All
Purchased" tab / page of the application ("Purchased Songs"). The diference
between the two features being that the Downloaded Songs are only temporarily
available / accessible during the validity of the paid monthly subscription
for the WYNK application, whereas, the Purchased Songs are purchased by paying
specific charges and permanent physical / electronic copies of the same are
saved on the customer's device. According to the Plaintif, the download and
outright purchase features are nothing but commercial rental and sale of sound
recordings, respectively. The Ld. Senior Advocate for the Plaintif relied upon
the following table elucidating the diferences between the download feature
and purchase feature of the Defendants' WYNK application as available on the
Defendants' website:
Download Feature Purchase Feature Sound recordings are stored within the Sound
recordings are stored outside the app. app.
Sound recordings can only be played Sound recordings can be played over any
::: Uploaded on - 06/05/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 07/04/2020 14:53:42 ::: Nitin
14 / 104 through the WYNK application. player.
Go to 'MY Music' tab / page and tap on Go to 'My Music' and tap on 'All 'All
Downloaded' to access downloaded Purchased' tab / page to access songs.
downloaded songs.
Downloaded sound recordings are Purchased sound recordings are also played
without data usage. played without data usage if electronic file is moved from
its location.
Physical files of the downloaded sound Electronic files of the purchased sound
recordings are stored in encrypted recordings are stored in mp3 format.
format.
Only the url of the downloaded sound Electronic files of purchased sound
recordings can be shared from within recordings can be shared by Bluetooth,
the app. transferred to PC etc. Active WYNK subscription is required Need to
pay charges to purchase to download sound recordings. individual sound
recordings / albums. Sound recordings can be downloaded in Sound recordings
can only be purchased both Android and iOS App. only in Android App.
::: Uploaded on - 06/05/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 07/04/2020 14:53:42 :::
Nitin 15 / 104
12\. According to the Plaintif, the services / activities of the Defendants
impugned in Commercial IP Suit (L) No.114 of 2018 infringe upon the Plaintif's
following exclusive rights in respect of a sound recording:
(i) to make any other sound recording embodying it (including storing of it in
any medium by electronic or other means) under Section 14 (1)(e)(i) of the
Act.
(ii) to sell or give on commercial rental or ofer for sale or for such rental,
any of copy of the sound recording under Section 14 (1)(e)(ii) of the Act; It
is submitted on behalf of the Plaintif that section 14 (1)(e) of the Act
stipulates that an owner of copyright in a sound recording has three
disjunctive and independent rights that are enumerated under sub-clauses (i)
to (iii) of the said sub section. The Legislature has consciously drawn a
distinction between an owner's copyright to exclusively sell and / or
commercially rent its sound recordings to the public and to further make
copies of such recordings, and the exclusive right to communicate the sound
recording to the public. These rights (sell and / or commercially rent) are
distinct from and do not overlap with the exclusive right to communicate the
work to public as provided in Section 14(1)(e)
(iii) of the Act, which right is the subject matter of the Commercial IP Suit
(L) No.114 of 2018.
::: Uploaded on - 06/05/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 07/04/2020 14:53:42 :::
Nitin 16 / 104
13\. According to the Plaintif, Section 14(1)(e)(i) of the Act confers the
Plaintif with the exclusive right to create sound recordings embodying its
copyrighted sound recordings, which right extends to storage by electronic or
any other means. The Defendants through their outright purchase / download
services are enabling their customers to store physical files of the
Plaintif's sound recordings on their devices which is nothing but making
another sound recording whose storage is by electronic means. As per the
Plaintif, this violates the Plaintif's exclusive right to reproduce sound
recordings under Section 14(1)(e)(i) of the Act.
14\. In so far as the Purchase feature (permanent download subscription) is
concerned, the Ld. Senior Advocate for the Plaintif submitted that the
Defendants have admittedly stopped the said Purchase feature. He relied upon
paragraph 11 of the Affidavit in Reply of Defendant No.1 dated 10 th February
2018 wherein the Defendants have inter alia pleaded the following:
> "11. I submit that with reference to the permanent download subscription
> option provided by the Defendant No.1, the Defendant No.1 hereby states that
> the Plaintiff's content is no longer available for permanent download on the
> Defendant No.1's platforms."
According to the Plaintif, the fact that the Defendants have voluntarily and,
on their accord, admitted that they have stopped their Purchase feature
amounts to an acceptance on the part of the Defendants that the Plaintif
retains the  ::: Uploaded on - 06/05/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 07/04/2020
14:53:42 ::: Nitin 17 / 104 exclusive right to sell its works under Section
14(1)(e)(ii) of the Act. As per the Plaintif, in view of the said admission,
an injunction must be granted on this ground alone restraining them from
operating their "Purchase" feature qua the Plaintif's Repertoire.
15\. Relying upon the definition of "commercial rental" as provided in Section
2(fa) of the Act, the Ld. Senior Advocate for the Plaintif submitted that the
said definition excludes only rentals / lease / lending for non-profit
purposes by non- profit libraries and non-profit educational institutions. He
submitted that by implication, rental, lease and/or lending of sound
recordings by any other person would amount to a "commercial rental" within
the meaning of Section 2 (fa) of the Act. He submitted that since the
Defendants are neither non-profit libraries nor educational institutions
coupled with the fact that the services ofered by the Defendants are indeed
meant for profit, the renting out of the Plaintif's work for consideration /
money / fee by the Defendants amounts to a "commercial rental" under Section 2
(fa) of the Act.
16\. The Ld. Senior Advocate for the Plaintif further submitted that since the
right to sell and / or to commercially rent out sound recordings flow from the
same class of rights protected under the provisions of Section 14(1)(e)(ii) of
the Act, the acceptance on the part of the Defendants that the Plaintif
retains the exclusive right to sell its work amounts to an implicit admission
that the Plaintif also  ::: Uploaded on - 06/05/2019 ::: Downloaded on -
07/04/2020 14:53:42 ::: Nitin 18 / 104 retains the exclusive right to
commercially rent out its works. He submitted that on this count alone, the
Defendants are estopped from denying that they are not infringing the
Plaintif's right of commercial rental under Section 14(1)(e)(ii) of the Act.
17\. The Ld. Senior Advocate for the Defendants, on the other hand submitted
that 'communication to the public' of a sound recording within the meaning of
Section 2(f ) of the Act and 'commercial sale' or 'rental' of the sound
recording operate in distinct / diferent fields. Relying upon the definition
of "communication to the public", he submitted that making a work available
for being heard or enjoyed by the public directly by any means of display or
difusion, without issuing a physical copy of such work is within the purview
of "communication to the public" and does not constitute commercial rental and
/ or sale of a sound recording as provided in Section 14(1)(e)(ii) of the Act.
18\. The Ld. Senior Advocate for the Defendants further submitted that
Defendants' WYNK application allows the subscriber to retain an electronic
copy of the song / sound recording and access / enjoy the same any number of
times, during the validity of the subscription (Download-rental). He submitted
that the application does not permit the subscriber to make a copy of the
sound recording / song or to transfer any such copy to any third party. He
submitted that such activity constitutes 'communication to the public' and
does not constitute commercial rental or sale of the sound recording. He
further  ::: Uploaded on - 06/05/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 07/04/2020 14:53:42
::: Nitin 19 / 104 submitted that permitting a subscriber to retain the
electronic song/sound recording for his personal use / listening on the Wynk
App constitutes "fair dealing" with such work for private or personal use as
provided for in Section 52(1)(a)(i) of the Act and does not constitute an
infringement of copyright. He submitted that it is equivalent to a member of
the public making a copy of audio / song program for his subsequent personal
use / enjoyment thereof. He further submitted that the storage of the
Plaintif's songs on the Defendants' platform is protected under Section
52(1)(b) of the Act, being transient or incidental storage of the sound
recording purely in the technical process of electronic transmission or
communication to public. He therefore submitted that the activities / services
of the Defendants do not amount to infringement of the Plaintif's copyright.
19\. The Defendants have also raised a defence stating that they are a
broadcasting organization and that Section 31-D of the Act confers upon them a
statutory right to carry on their download and streaming business (internet
broadcasting). I have dealt with the said defence in the subsequent paragraphs
where I have considered whether the Defendants can take benefit of Section
31-D of the Act.
20\. I have considered the above submissions. At this stage, it is important
to consider the relevant provisions of the Act which have been relied upon by
both the sides for the purpose of making submissions on the present Issue. The
said relevant provisions of the Act are reproduced hereunder:  ::: Uploaded on
- 06/05/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 07/04/2020 14:53:42 :::
     Nitin                                   20 / 104
            "Section 2 - Interpretation.-
In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,-- (dd) "broadcast" means
communication to the public--
> (i) by any means of wireless diffusion, whether in any one or more of the
> forms of signs, sounds or visual images; or
> (ii) by wire, and includes a re-broadcast;
( fa) "commercial rental" does not include the rental, lease or lending of a
lawfully acquired copy of a computer programme, sound recording, visual
recording or cinematograph film for non-profit purposes by a non-profit
library or non-profit educational institution.'; Explanation.-For the purposes
of this clause, a "non-profit library or non-profit educational institution"
means a library or educational institution which receives grants from the
Government or exempted from payment of tax under the Income-tax Act, 1961.(43
of 1961) ( ff ) "communication to the public" means making any work or
performance available for being seen or heard or otherwise enjoyed by the
public directly or by any means of display or diffusion other than by issuing
physical copies of it, whether simultaneously or at places and times chosen
individually, regardless of whether any member of the public actually sees,
hears or otherwise enjoys the work or performance so made available.
Explanation.-For the purposes of this clause, communication through satellite
or cable or any other means of simultaneous communication to more than one
household or place of residence including residential rooms of any hotel or
hostel shall be deemed to be communication to the public;
::: Uploaded on - 06/05/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 07/04/2020 14:53:42 :::
     Nitin                                    21 / 104
            (m) "infringing copy" means,--
                  (i)    in relation to a literary, dramatic, musical or artistic work, a
                         reproduction thereof otherwise than in the form of a
                         cinematographic film;
(ii) in relation to a cinematographic film, a copy of the film made on any
medium by any means;
(iii) in relation to a sound recording, any other recording embodying the same
sound recording, made by any means;
(iv) in relation to a programe or performance in which such a broadcast
reproduction right or a performer's right subsists under the provisions of
this Act, the sound recording or a cinematographic film of such programe or
performance, if such reproduction, copy or sound recording is made or imported
in contravention of the provisions of this Act Section 14 \- Meaning of
Copyright-
(1) For the purposes of this Act, "copyright" means the exclusive right
subject to the provisions of this Act, to do or authorise the doing of any of
the following acts in respect of a work or any substantial part thereof,
namely:--
...
...
(e) in the case of a sound recording,--
> (i) to make any other sound recording embodying it [including storing of it
> in any medium by electronic or other means];
> (ii) to sell or give on commercial rental or offer for sale or for such
> rental, any copy of the sound recording;
> (iii) to communicate the sound recording to the public.
::: Uploaded on - 06/05/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 07/04/2020 14:53:42 :::
> Nitin 22 / 104 Explanation.--For the purposes of this section, a copy which
> has been sold once shall be deemed to be a copy already in circulation."
21\. Section 14 of the Copyright Act provides the meaning of 'copyright' for
the purposes of this Act. It provides that for the purposes of this Act,
'copyright' means the exclusive right to do or authorise doing of any of the
acts given in sub sections (a) to (e) in respect of work or any substantial
part thereof subject to the other provisions of the Act. The meaning of
copyright in respect of sound recording is provided in Section 14(1)(e) of the
Act. A bare perusal of Section 14(1)(e) of the Act would reveal that three
broad categories of rights have been contemplated in respect of sound
recordings. These three categories of rights are provided in Section
14(1)(e)(i), Section 14(1)(e)(ii) and Section 14(1)(e)(iii) of the Act. These
three categories of rights are independent and distinct of each other. Hence,
in respect of a single sound recording, the owner of the copyright has the
exclusive right to make any other sound recording embodying it including
storing it in any medium be electronic or other means. In respect of the same
sound recording, he also has the right to sell or give on commercial rental or
ofer for sale or for such rental, any copy of the sound recording. He also has
the right to communicate the same sound recording to the public. Hence, in so
far as a sound recording is concerned, the owner of the copyright has these
distinct rights which can be independently assigned or licensed by the owner
of the copyright to various parties. These three categories of rights do not
overlap with each other.  ::: Uploaded on - 06/05/2019 ::: Downloaded on -
07/04/2020 14:53:42 :::
Nitin 23 / 104
22\. The Defendants are admittedly enabling their customers to download sound
recordings and access them offline in lieu of a monthly subscription fee. The
customers' access to the Downloaded Songs is contingent upon uninterrupted
payment of the subscription fee. Non-payment of this subscription fee prompts
a withdrawal of such access to the same, until the subscription is restored.
Such Downloaded Songs are stored as electronic files actually available on the
customers' devices. The table reproduced in the earlier paragraph (as
available on the website of the Defendants) demonstrates that the Defendants
through their outright purchase / download services are enabling their
subscribers to actually store electronic files of the Plaintif's sound
recordings on their devices. Storing the files of the Plaintif's sound
recordings in electronic medium by the Defendants is nothing but making of
another sound recording embodying the Plaintif's sound recording. This right
is an exclusive right granted to the owner of the copyright in the sound
recording under Section 14(1)(e)(i) of the Act and the Defendants cannot be
allowed to continue the same without any permission or authorization of the
Plaintif.
23\. In so far as the exclusive rights of the Plaintif to sell or ofer for
sale any copy of the sound recording as provided in Section 14(1)(e)(ii) of
the Act is concerned, it is evident that the activity of the Defendants
enabling their customers to permanently download sound recordings and have a
permanent access to the same once paid for (permanent download subscription
option) clearly amounts to  ::: Uploaded on - 06/05/2019 ::: Downloaded on -
07/04/2020 14:53:42 ::: Nitin 24 / 104 sale of the sound recording. In case of
permanent download subscription option, the sound recordings are permanently
downloaded whereby a mirror copy is saved on the customers' devices. Such
mirror copy can be accessed freely from outside the application and even be
copied and / or transferred onto other devices. Further, the sound recording
so downloaded can be played by any player and not just the Defendants' Wynk
App. Still further, the sound recording can be shared with other users through
Bluetooth or transferred to computers, laptops etc. This, according to me,
virtually amounts to a sale of the sound recording by the Defendants. The
Defendants do not have any right to sell or ofer for sale the Plaintif's sound
recordings without any authorization or permission of the Plaintif. Such
feature of permanent download subscription option ofered by the Defendants to
their customers to permanently download sound recordings and have a permanent
access to the same once paid for, amounts to sale of the sound recordings and
thereby violates the exclusive right of the Plaintif to sell or ofer for sale
its sound recordings as provided in Section 14(1)(e)(ii) of the Act.
24\. In paragraph 11 of their Affidavit in Reply, the Defendants have stated
that the Plaintif's content is no longer available for permanent download
subscription on their platforms. In the absence of any reason forthcoming from
the Defendants for stopping the feature of permanent download subscription in
so far as the Plaintif's content is concerned while continuing the download
feature, it is safe to assume that the Defendants have indeed acknowledged
that they have no right  ::: Uploaded on - 06/05/2019 ::: Downloaded on -
07/04/2020 14:53:42 ::: Nitin 25 / 104 to ofer such permanent download
subscription in respect of Plaintif's content which virtually amounts to sale
of the sound recordings and such right is exclusively available with the
Plaintif as provided in Section 14(1)(e)(ii) of the Act.
25\. In so far as the exclusive rights of the Plaintif to give on commercial
rental or ofer for such rental any copy of the sound recording as provided in
Section 14(1)
(e)(ii) of the Act is concerned, it is important to understand as to what
amounts to a 'commercial rental' as provided in Section 2(fa) of the Act.
Section 2(fa) is reproduced hereinbelow:
> ( fa) "commercial rental" does not include the rental, lease or lending of a
> lawfully acquired copy of a computer programme, sound recording, visual
> recording or cinematograph film for non-profit purposes by a non-profit
> library or non-profit educational institution.'; Explanation.-For the
> purposes of this clause, a "non-profit library or non-profit educational
> institution" means a library or educational institution which receives
> grants from the Government or exempted from payment of tax under the Income-
tax Act, 1961.(43 of 1961) A bare perusal of the definition would reveal that
the said definition is couched in a negative manner thereby exclusively
providing only those specific instances which do not amount to 'commercial
rental'. Hence, by implication, all other instances which are not specifically
provided in the said definition amount to 'commercial rental'. Further, it is
evident that unless the purpose of rental, lease or lending of a lawfully
acquired copy of a sound recording is for non-profit  ::: Uploaded on -
06/05/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 07/04/2020 14:53:42 ::: Nitin 26 / 104 purpose
by a non-profit library or non-profit educational institution, the said
rental, lease or lending would be termed as 'commercial rental'. Applying the
meaning of the said term 'commercial rental' to the activities of the
Defendants, it becomes evident that the activities of the Defendants enabling
their customers to download sound recordings and access them offline in lieu
of a monthly subscription fee clearly do not fall under the exclusions
provided in the said definition of 'commercial rental' and would therefore
amount to 'commercial rental'. The Defendants' impugned activities do not
constitute as "non-profit activities". The Defendants are enabling their
customers to download sound recordings and access them offline in lieu of a
monthly subscription fee. Such Downloaded Songs are stored as physical
electronic files on the customers' devices. The customers' access to the
Downloaded Songs is contingent upon uninterrupted payment of the subscription
fee. Non-payment of this subscription fee prompts a withdrawal of such access
to the same, until the subscription is restored. Thus, the Defendants are
essentially renting out the sound recordings available on their Platform,
including the Plaintif's Repertoire, in exchange for a consideration / fee.
Sale/ Commercial rental of sound recordings in a digital medium through the
internet is no diferent than done through physical modes. This is a vivid
instance of a commercial rental as contemplated under the Act. Thus, vide this
download service, the Defendants are in fact ofering for commercial rental and
giving on commercial rental copies of the Plaintif's sound  ::: Uploaded on -
06/05/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 07/04/2020 14:53:42 ::: Nitin 27 / 104
recordings which the users can exploit till the time the subscription is in
force and once the subscription expires, the user would not be in a position
to exploit the sound recordings. The Defendants do not have any such right
without any authorization or permission of the Plaintif. Such feature of
download subscription option ofered by the Defendants enabling their customers
to download sound recordings and access them offline in lieu of a monthly
subscription fee violates the exclusive right of the Plaintif to give on
commercial rental or ofer for such commercial rental a copy of its sound
recordings as provided in Section 14(1)(e)(ii) of the Act.
26\. I also see considerable force in the submissions made by the Ld. Senior
Advocate for the Plaintif that since the right to sell and / or to
commercially rent out sound recordings flow from the same class of rights
protected under the provisions of Section 14(1)(e)(ii) of the Act, the
acceptance on the part of the Defendants that the Plaintif retains the
exclusive right to sell its work amounts to an implicit admission that the
Plaintif also retains the exclusive right to commercially rent out its works.
If the Defendants have stopped the permanent download subscription service
which amounts to sale of the Plaintif's sound recordings there is no reason to
continue with the giving on commercial rental or ofering for such commercial
rental, any copy of the Plaintif's sound recordings.
27\. In view of the above, it is evident that the Defendants through their
purchase feature and download feature, are enabling their customers to store
physical  ::: Uploaded on - 06/05/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 07/04/2020 14:53:42
::: Nitin 28 / 104 files / electronic copies of the Plaintif's Repertoire on
their devices in abrogation of the exclusive rights granted to the Plaintif
under Section 14(1)(e) of the Act. However, it is the Defendants' case that
they are internet broadcasters and Section 31-D of the Act confers them with a
statutory right to carry on their download business, which defence I have
considered in the later part of this judgment.
ISSUE A (i): Whether the use of the Plaintiff's Repertoire by the Defendants'
customers be considered "fair use" under Section 52(1)(a)(i) of the Act?
28\. The Defendants have raised further defences under Sections 52(1)(a)(i)
and Section 52(1)(b) of the Act and have contended that their activities do
not amount to infringement of Plaintif's copyright.
29\. It is submitted on behalf of the Defendants that permitting a customer to
retain an electronic copy of a sound recording copy for their personal use or
enjoyment on the WYNK application constitutes "fair dealing" with such work
for private or personal use, and does not constitute an infringement of
copyright. It is further submitted that such storage is equivalent to a member
of public making a copy of a song / sound recording for his subsequent
personal use / enjoyment thereof.
30\. The defence of fair use is dealt with in Section 52(1)(a)(i) of the Act,
which is reproduced below:
::: Uploaded on - 06/05/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 07/04/2020 14:53:42 :::
Nitin 29 / 104 "52. Certain acts not to be infringement of copyright.-- (1)
The following acts shall not constitute an infringement of copyright,
namely,--
(a) a fair dealing with any work, not being a computer programme, for the
purposes of--
(i) private or personal use, including research;
..."
31\. The Plaintif relied upon the following excerpts from the English case
laws of Hubbard v. Vosper 1972 2 Q.B. 84 and Ashdown v. Telegraph Group 2002 1
Ch. 149 wherein the standards to determine "fair dealing" have been laid down:
> HUBBARD AND ANOTHER v. VOSPER AND ANOTHER (supra) "The question is,
> therefore, whether Mr. Vosper's treatment of Mr. Hubbard's books was a "fair
> dealing" with them "for the purposes of criticism or review." There is very
> little in our law books to help on this. Some cases can be used to
> illustrate what is not "fair dealing." It is not fair dealing for a rival in
> the trade to take copyright material and use it for his own benefit. Such as
> when "The Times" published a letter on America by Rudyard Kipling. The St.
> James' Gazette took out half-a-dozen passages and published them as
> extracts. ...
> It is impossible to define what is "fair dealing." It must be a question of
> degree. You must consider first the number and extent of the quotations and
> extracts. Are they altogether too many and too long to be fair? Then you
> must consider the use made of them. If they are used as a basis for comment,
> criticism or review, that may be fair dealing. If they are used to convey
> the same information as the author, for a rival purpose, that may be unfair.
Next, you must consider the proportions. To take long extracts and attach
short comments may be unfair. But, short extracts and long comments may  :::
Uploaded on - 06/05/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 07/04/2020 14:53:42 ::: Nitin 30
/ 104 be fair. Other considerations may come to mind also. But, after all is
said and done, it must be a matter of impression. As with fair comment in the
law of libel, so with fair dealing in the law of copyright. The tribunal of
fact must decide. ..."
Ashdown v Telegraph Group Ltd (supra) "70. Authority is very sparse in
relation to the defense of fair dealing in the context of reporting current
events: see the comment of Scott J. in British Broadcasting Corpn v British
Satellite Broadcasting Ltd [1999] Ch 141, 148. Sir Andrew Morritt V-C
commented with approval, however, on the summary of the authors of Laddie,
Prescott & Victoria, The Modern Law of Copyright and Design, 3rd ed (2000),
para 20.16 on the test of fair dealing in the general context of section 30.
We have also found this an accurate and helpful summary and set it out for the
purpose of discussion.
> "It is impossible to lay down any hard-and-fast definition of what fair
> dealing is, for it is a matter of fact, degree and impression. However, by
> far the most important factor is whether the alleged fair dealing is in fact
> commercially competing with the proprietor's exploitation of the copyright
> work, a substitute for the probable purchase of authorised copies, and the
> like. If it is, the fair dealing defence will almost certainly fail. If it
> is not and there is a moderate taking and there are no special adverse
> factors, the defence is likely to succeed, especially if the defendant's
> additional purpose is to right a wrong, to ventilate an honest grievance, to
> engage in political controversy, and so on. The second most important factor
> is whether the work  ::: Uploaded on - 06/05/2019 ::: Downloaded on -
> 07/04/2020 14:53:42 ::: Nitin 31 / 104 has already been published or
> otherwise exposed to the public. If it has not, and especially if the
> material has been obtained by a breach of confidence or other mean or
> underhand dealing, the courts will be reluctant to say this is fair.
> However, this is by no means conclusive, for sometimes it is necessary for
> the purposes of legitimate public controversy to make use of 'leaked'
> information. The third most important factor is the amount and importance of
> the work that has been taken. For, although it is permissible to take a
> substantial part of the work (if not, there could be no question of
> infringement in the first place), in some circumstances the taking of an
> excessive amount, or the taking of even a small amount if on a regular
> basis, would negative fair dealing."
It is submitted by the Ld. Senior Advocate on behalf of the Plaintif that
applying the above standards, the use of a copyright, to be fair, must not: a.
Commercially compete with the owner's exploitation of the copyright work or be
a substitute for the probable purchase of authorized copies and the like.
b. Publish a work that has not already been published.
c. Take an excessive amount of the copyrighted work. The taking of even a
small amount on a regular basis may negate fair dealing. It is submitted on
behalf of the Plaintif that, the Defendants' use of the Plaintif's Repertoire
is hit by the first and third factor; that the Defendants'  ::: Uploaded on -
06/05/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 07/04/2020 14:53:42 ::: Nitin 32 / 104 download
and purchase features are clearly a substitute for the purchase of sound
recordings whose sale and / or commercial rental has been authorized by the
Plaintif; that if the Defendants' use is permitted to continue, they would in-
turn compete with the Plaintif's exclusive right to sell and / or commercial
rent out its repertoire; that the Defendants have furthermore appropriated the
entirety of the Plaintif's Repertoire for their own commercial use via their
WYNK Application; and that such appropriation amounts to an excessive taking
of copyrighted material and negates any plea of fair dealing.
32\. The Plaintif submitted that private or personal use under Section
52(1)(a)(ii) is only excused if it is first shown to be "fair dealing". It is
submitted that it is only pursuant to this burden being discharged, that a
person may rely upon the circumstances enumerated under Sub-clauses (i) to
(iii) of Section 52(1)(a); that having pleaded fair dealing, the burden to
prove it rests upon the Defendants. It is submitted that the Defendants have
not discharged this burden since no particulars have been pleaded nor has
material been adduced in support.
33\. In the absence of statutory definition of fair dealing, the Plaintif has
referred to Section 107 of the US Copyright Act, which is reproduced below:
> "Section 107 · Limitations on exclusive rights: Fair use Notwithstanding the
> provisions of sections 106 and 106A, the fair use of a copyrighted work,
> including such use by reproduction in copies or phonorecords or by any other
> means specified by that section, for purposes such as criticism, comment,
> news reporting, teaching (including multiple  ::: Uploaded on - 06/05/2019
> ::: Downloaded on - 07/04/2020 14:53:42 ::: Nitin 33 / 104 copies for
> classroom use), scholarship, or research, is not an infringement of
> copyright. In determining whether the use made of a work in any particular
> case is a fair use the factors to be considered shall include-- (1) the
> purpose and character of the use, including whether such use is of a
> commercial nature or is for nonprofit educational purposes; (2) the nature
> of the copyrighted work;
> (3) the amount and substantiality of the portion used in relation to the
> copyrighted work as a whole; and (4) the effect of the use upon the
> potential market for or value of the copyrighted work."
34\. The Ld. Senior Advocate for the Plaintif submitted that the purpose and
character of the Defendants' use via its Download feature is purely commercial
and to earn revenue for itself. He submitted that though the Plaintif's
Repertoire is published, its sound recordings have been generated through
enormous skill, labour and thought; the Defendants have admittedly
appropriated the entirety of the Plaintif's copyrighted Repertoire for their
own benefit; if not interdicted by necessary orders, the Defendants use would
usurp the potential market for the Plaintif's sale / rent of its works or that
carried out by its licensees. He further submitted on behalf of the Plaintif
that the Court must assess whether the use materially impairs the
marketability of the copied work; that it need only be shown that if the
challenged use becomes widespread it would adversely impact the potential
market for the copyrighted work; if the Defendants' use of the Plaintif's
Repertoire is excused as fair dealing and / or fair use, the latter's
copyright would be rendered nugatory; the Plaintif would be unable to recover
the economic potential of its works in respect of which it has expended  :::
Uploaded on - 06/05/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 07/04/2020 14:53:42 ::: Nitin 34
/ 104 significant resources and labour; and that the Plaintif would be unable
to license its works to others since they too would carry out the same acts as
the Defendants in the present case.
35\. The Ld. Senior Advocate for the Plaintif also relied upon the case of
Ruperndra Kashyap v. Jiwan Publishing House reported in 1996 (16) PTC 439
(Delhi), wherein a rival publisher raised the defence of fair dealing under
Section 52(1)(a)(i) of the Act. In that case, the Defendants were publishing
copyrighted question papers. In their defence, the Defendants therein alleged
that their use was a fair dealing under the aforesaid section since they were
selling their publication to students for their personal use. The Court
rejected this defence stating:
> "... It would, therefore, suffice to deal with the plea raised by reference
> to S. 52(1)(a)(i) of the Act, which provides inter alia, that a fair dealing
> with the literary work for the purpose of research or private study does not
> constitute infringement of copyright. The words 'research or private study'
> have been substituted by the words 'private use including research' by the
> Copyright (Amendment) Act, 1994 (Act 381 of 1994). What is contemplated is a
> defense to the person conducting research or private study who while doing
> so, if dealing fairly with a literary work, may not incur wrath of the
> copyright having been infringed. But, if a publisher publishes a book for
> commercial exploitation and in doing so infringes a Copyright, the defense
> under section 52(1)(a)(i) would not be available to such a publisher though
> the book published by him may be used or be meant for use in research or
> private study. The defense raised by defendants 1 and 2 based on Section
> 52(1)(a)(i) is not available to them and the plea so raised has to be
> rejected."
::: Uploaded on - 06/05/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 07/04/2020 14:53:42 :::
> Nitin 35 / 104
> 36\. I am of the opinion that the defence provided in Section 52(1)(a)(i) of
> the Act is not available to the Defendants at all. The defence of fair use
> may be available in a given case, to an individual user. The activities of
> the Defendants can never be termed as 'private' or 'personal use' or
> 'research'. The Defendants are clearly selling and / or commercially renting
> sound recordings including, inter alia, the Plaintif's Repertoire for their
> own commercial benefit. Thus, the Defendants use of the Plaintif's
> Repertoire cannot be termed as fair dealing for the purpose of private /
> personal use or conducting research. Hence, the exception under Section
> 52(1)(a)(i) of the Act is not available to the Defendants. Since I am of the
> opinion that the Defendants' activities cannot be considered as having as
> their purpose, private or personal use (or other activities covered under
> Section 52 of the Act), including research, I do not think it necessary to
> consider the remaining submission of the Plaintif on the aspect of what
> exactly amounts to "fair dealing" with any work. The said question would
> have arisen only if the activities of the Defendants would have amounted to
> private or personal use, including research. I therefore hold that the
> defence of fair use available under Section 52(1)(a)(i) of the Act is not
> available to the Defendants in the present case.
ISSUE A (ii): Whether the storage of sound recordings upon the Defendants'
customers' devices can be considered transient or incidental to the services
provided by the Defendants as provided in Section 52(1)(a) (b) of the Act?
::: Uploaded on - 06/05/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 07/04/2020 14:53:42 :::
Nitin 36 / 104
37\. According to the Defendants, copies of the sound recordings available on
the WYNK application, stored on its customer's devices are transient and / or
incidental to the services provided by the Defendants. It is submitted that
such activity is contemplated and permissible under Section 52(1)(b) of the
Act. Section 52(1)(b) of the Act is reproduced hereunder:
> "52. Certain acts not to be infringement of copyright.-- (1) The following
> acts shall not constitute an infringement of copyright, namely,--
> ...
> (b) the transient or incidental storage of a work or performance purely in
> the technical process of electronic transmission or communication to the
> public."
38\. A bare perusal of the said Section would reveal that defence under the
said Section must satisfy the following two essential requirements: a. such
storage must be transient or incidental;
b. it must occur purely in the technical process of technical transmission or
communication to the public.
39\. According to the Plaintif, the storage of the Plaintif's on the
Defendants' WYNK Platform and the customer's devices is neither transient nor
incidental; that the Defendants have advertised their services on the premise
that physical electronic files of the sound recordings can be retained and
stored by their customers for offline use; that offline storage of these
physical files thus appears to be the primary object / unique selling point of
the Defendants' business and therefore the storage thereof cannot be termed as
'incidental'; that the storage can also not be termed as transient since the
physical file stored remains on the  ::: Uploaded on - 06/05/2019 :::
Downloaded on - 07/04/2020 14:53:42 ::: Nitin 37 / 104 user's device and is
not deleted forthwith. According to the Plaintif, the purpose and intent of
Section 52(1)(b) of the Act was to protect internet service providers such as
MTNL etc. acting in good faith.
40\. In support of its submissions, the Plaintif relied upon the following
extract of the 227th Report of the Rajya Sabha Parliamentary Standing
Committee on the Copyright (Amendment) Bill, 2010:
> "19.1 Clause 31 of the Bill seeks to amend section 52 of the Act relating to
> certain acts not to be infringement of copyright. The Bill seeks to
> substitute certain clauses of section 52 as follows:-
> \- clause (a) seeks to provide that a fair dealing with any work, not being
> a computer programme for the purpose of private or personal use, including
> research; criticism or review, whether of that work or of any other work and
> the reporting of current events, including the reporting of a lecture
> delivered in public shall not constitute on infringement of copyright. An
> Explanation is also proposed to be inserted so as to clarify that storing of
> any work in any electronic medium for aforesaid the purposes including the
> incidental storage of any computer programme which is not itself an
> infringing copy for the said purposes, shall not constitute infringement of
> copyright.
> \- clause (b) seeks to provide that the transient and incidental storage of
> a work or performance purely in the technical process of electronic
> transmission or communication to the public shall not constitute an
> infringement of copyright.
::: Uploaded on - 06/05/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 07/04/2020 14:53:42 :::
     Nitin                                   38 / 104
                 -      clause (c) seeks to provide that transient and incidental storage
> of a work or performance for the purpose of providing electronic links,
> access or integration, where such links, access or integration has not been
> expressly prohibited by the right holder, unless the person responsible is
> aware or has reasonable grounds for believing that such storage is of an
> infringing copy also shall not constitute an infringement of copyright 19.2
> According to the Department, section 52 deals with fair dealing and certain
> acts which are not infringement and it does not deal with infringement per
> se. Any transient and incidental storage of any work through the process of
> 'caching' has been provided exceptions as per the international practice.
> Any deliberate storing of such works and unauthorized reproduction and
> distribution of such works is infringement under section 51 of the Act
> attracting civil and criminal liability. Exceptions under this section have
> been extended for education and research purposes as works are available in
> digital formats and internet. The scope of these proposed provisions ensure
> that any introduction of new technology will also be covered under this
> proposed section. The proposed amendment in clause (c) introduces liability
> of internet service providers. The practice of making available the works on
> internet and websites in unauthorized manner without licence from the author
> or right owner is infringement. This leads to suspension of the service
> provider's activity. However, in order to provide a safe harbour as per
> international norms to the service provider to take down such unauthorized
> works upon receipt of notice from the authors and right owners and any abuse
> of suspension, it is provided that an order within 14 days from the
> competent count to be produced for the continued prevention of such storage.
::: Uploaded on - 06/05/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 07/04/2020 14:53:42 :::
> Nitin 39 / 104 19.10 In the light of the divergent views expressed by the
> stakeholders particularly with regard to the stipulation of 14 days period
> under Section 52 (1)(c) the Committee is of the view that the viability, of
> the duration of 14 days may again be reviewed by way of balancing the views
> of the stakeholders as well as the legal requirement in the matter. As for
> the words the "transient and incidental" occurring in section 52 (1)(b) and
> 52 (1)(c) the Committee recommends that the word 'and' may be replaced with
> the word or in both the clauses so as to read "transient or incidental". The
> Committee feels that this will take care of the concern of ISPs for
> unlimited liability for third party actions."
41\. In my view, the provisions of Section 52(1)(b) are fairly
straightforward. It is clear from the nature of the Defendants' activities
that the offline storage either permanent or temporary of electronic copies of
the sound recordings on the customer's devices is the primary selling point /
unique object of the Defendants' business. The electronic storage of
Plaintif's sound recording on the platforms of the Defendants can neither be
termed as 'transient' nor 'incidental'. The sound recordings may be stored on
the customers' devices during the tenure of their subscription or as per their
discretion, as the case may be. In such circumstances, the storage of the
sound recordings cannot be said to be incidental or transient to services of
the Defendants. Further, it is evident that the provisions of this Section
52(1)(b) would generally apply in case of Internet Service Providers and not
to the activities of the Defendants. Thus, I am of the  ::: Uploaded on -
06/05/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 07/04/2020 14:53:42 ::: Nitin 40 / 104 opinion
that the defence under Section 52(1)(b) of the Act is not available to the
Defendants.
ISSUE A (iii): Whether the Defendants can invoke Section 31-D of the Act to
exercise a Statutory License in respect of their download/purchase business?
42\. I have already observed hereinbefore that the services rendered by the
Defendants through their download and purchase features amount to commercial
rental and / or sale of the Plaintif's copyrighted sound recordings. Since the
right to commercially rent and / or sell a sound recording is a separate and
distinct right as against the right to communicate the sound recording to the
public, the Defendants cannot exercise a Statutory License under Section 31-D
in respect of the download and purchase features provided by them.
43\. The Ld. Senior Advocate for the Plaintif submitted that Section 31-D of
the Act does not contemplate a right or entitlement to commercially rent out
or sell copyrighted works. The said section only contemplates a statutory
license for 'broadcasting'. He submitted that Section 31-D of the Act does not
enable or permit a person to sell or commercially rent out sound recordings.
He submitted that even otherwise, broadcast is a specie of activity that falls
within the scope of 'communication to the public'.
44\. The Ld. Senior Advocate for the Plaintif submitted that the right to
commercially rent / sell sound recordings is a separate right carved out under
::: Uploaded on - 06/05/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 07/04/2020 14:53:42 ::: Nitin
41 / 104 Section 14(1)(e)(ii) of the Act and is independent to the right to
communicate to the public as provided in Section 14(1)(e)(iii) of the Act. It
is submitted that from a combined reading of Sections 2(dd), 2(f ) and 31-D of
the Act along with Section 14(1)(e) of the Act, the intention of the
Legislature to exclude the right to commercially rent / sale of sound
recordings from Section 31-D is apparent and what is covered is only the
communication of sound recording to public. The Ld. Senior Advocate appearing
for the Plaintif relied on the 227 th Report of the Rajya Sabha Parliamentary
Standing Committee on the Copyright (Amendment) Bill, 2010\. Therein the
Committee opined that sale / downloading of sound recordings through the
internet does not fall within the scope of a communication to the public. The
relevant excerpts of the said Rajya Sabha Parliamentary Standing Committee
report are reproduced below:
> "6.2 According to the Department, the definition has been revised to tackle
> the exploitation of works in digital medium, thereby bringing the same in
> conformity with WCT and WPPT. The Committee notes that the proposed
> amendment in the definition of the term 'communication to the public' has
> not found favour with music companies represented by the South India Music
> Companies Association, the RPG Enterprises Saregama, Indian Music Industry
> and also the Association of Radio Operators for India. Attention was drawn
> to the following factors having an adverse impact on the music industry and
> radio operators:
> \- subscription to caller tunes and authorized websites permitting streaming
> /downloading of copies etc. will be considered "communication to the public"
> inspite of it being a sale of the copy; -
::: Uploaded on - 06/05/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 07/04/2020 14:53:42 :::
> Nitin 42 / 104 no rationale in exclusion of only physical copies from the
> purview of "communication to the public" in an age where commercialization
> and sale of music is taking place extensively through the medium of internet
> and transfer of files through computers/blue tooth; - creation of a
> transient electronic copy in the course of or for the purpose of
> "communication to public" under current law is treated as an infringement.
> While such act by a legitimate TV/Radio station would be lawful, the section
> will be misused by unauthorized websites treating it as an activity during
> the course of "communication to the public" - free radio broadcast which is
> a service to the public and is also in the interest of artists as it
> promotes their compositions will be brought under the definition. Therefore,
> the word 'performance' should be excluded from the provision. - proposed
> amendment will be misinterpreted by certain quarters when even issuing
> "digital" copies would amount to 'communication to public'. It would be
> wrong to consider digital sales such as iTunes as "communication to the
> public" In reality, it is only a sale, but on a different medium.
6.3 The Committee feels that the reservations of the stakeholders are
unfounded. Issuing physical copies or legitimate digital downloading music or
video recording by payment cannot be considered a communication to the public.
The Department has justified the proposed amendment for exploitation of
digital mediums. As the amendment is in tune with the technological
advancement, the Committee accepts the amendment. The Committee is also of the
view that the copyright societies can play a proactive role in resolving
problems, if any, arising due to the proposed changes in the definition."
::: Uploaded on - 06/05/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 07/04/2020 14:53:42 :::
Nitin 43 / 104
45\. The commercial rental / sale of sound recordings and broadcasting of
sound recordings are two distinct activities which have been separately
impugned by the Plaintif by filing two separate suits. I have already come to
a conclusion that the Defendants' impugned services (download/purchase
features) are in the nature of commercial rental and / or sale of sound
recordings. A bare perusal of Section 14(1)(e) of the Act, would make it clear
that the Legislature intended to keep independent the right to commercially
rent / sell a sound recording from the right to communicate the sound
recording to the public. The distinction drawn by the Legislature between
Sections 14(1)(e)(ii) and 14(1)(e)(iii) of the Act by carving out the rights
therein separately, clarifies the position that the exclusive right granted to
the owner of copyright in a sound recording under Section 14(1)
(e)(ii) does not overlap with the exclusive right of communication of the
sound recording to the public provided under Section 14(1)(e)(iii) of the Act.
46\. Broadcast has been defined under Section 2(dd) of the Act as under:
> "(dd) "broadcast" means communication to the public--
> (i) by any means of wireless diffusion, whether in any one or more of the
> forms of signs, sounds or visual images; or
> (ii) by wire, and includes a re-broadcast;"
47\. A bare perusal of the definition of the term 'broadcast' would make it
clear that the same is a specie of 'communication to the public'. Hence, by
deduction, the right to commercially rental or to sell a sound recording is
separate and distinct from the right to broadcast.
::: Uploaded on - 06/05/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 07/04/2020 14:53:42 :::
Nitin 44 / 104
48\. Now, a bare reading of Section 31-D would reveal that the said provision
is applicable to only broadcasting organizations which are desirous of
communicating to the public by way of 'broadcast'. Section 31-D is reproduced
hereunder:
> "31D. Statutory licence for broadcasting of literary and musical works and
> sound recording-
> (1) Any broadcasting organisation desirous of communicating to the public by
> way of a broadcast or by way of performance of a literary or musical work
> and sound recording which has already been published may do so subject to
> the provisions of this section.
> (2) The broadcasting organisation shall give prior notice, in such manner as
> may be prescribed, of its intention to broadcast the work stating the
> duration and territorial coverage of the broadcast, and shall pay to the
> owner of rights in each work royalties in the manner and at the rate fixed
> by the Appellate Board.
> (3) The rates of royalties for radio broadcasting shall be different from
> television broadcasting and the Appellate Board shall fix separate rates for
> radio broadcasting and television broadcasting.
> (4) In fixing the manner and the rate of royalty under sub-section (2), the
> Appellate Board may require the broadcasting organisation to pay an advance
> to the owners of rights.
> (5) The names of the authors and the principal performers of the work shall,
> except in case of the broadcasting organisation communicating such work by
> way of performance, be announced with the broadcast.
> (6) No fresh alteration to any literary or musical work, which is not
> technically necessary for the purpose of broadcasting, other than shortening
> the work for convenience of broadcast, shall be made without the consent of
> the owners of rights.
> (7) The broadcasting organisation shall -
(a) maintain such records and books of account, and render to the owners of
rights such reports and accounts; and  ::: Uploaded on - 06/05/2019 :::
Downloaded on - 07/04/2020 14:53:42 ::: Nitin 45 / 104
(b) allow the owner of rights or his duly authorised agent or representative
to inspect all records and books of account relating to such broadcast, in
such manner as may be prescribed.
(8) Nothing in this section shall affect the operation of any licence issued
or any agreement entered into before the commencement of the Copyright
(Amendment) Act, 2012."
49\. It is evident that the Legislature was well aware of the distinction
between the right to commercial rental or to sell on one hand and right to
broadcast on the other hand whilst enacting Section 31-D of the Act. Had the
Legislature intended for a statutory license under the said Section 31-D to
encompass sale and / or commercial rental as contemplated under Section
14(1)(e)(ii), the Legislature would have employed express language to that
efect in Section 31-D of the Act. The absence of such language or even mention
of sale and / or commercial rental in Section 31-D of the Act, makes the
intention of the Legislature crystal clear to exclude commercial rental / sale
of sound recordings from the purview of Section 31-D. It is therefore evident
that Section 31-D contemplates communication to public by way of broadcast of
sound recordings only, and not their commercial rental and / or sale. Further,
such interpretation is also fortified by the excerpts relied upon by the
Plaintif from 227th Report of the Rajya Sabha Parliamentary Standing Committee
on the Copyright (Amendment) Bill, 2010 wherein it was observed that 'Issuing
physical copies or legitimate digital downloading music or video recording by
payment cannot be considered a communication to the public'. Since the
services (download / purchase feature) provided by the Defendants are in the
::: Uploaded on - 06/05/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 07/04/2020 14:53:42 ::: Nitin
46 / 104 nature of commercial rental and / or sale of sound recordings, they
do not fall within the purview of Section 31-D of the Act and the Defendants
are prohibited from exercising a statutory license apropos thereto. ISSUE B:
Whether the Defendants can invoke Section 31-D of the Act to exercise a
Statutory License in respect of the Plaintiff's Repertoire for internet
broadcasting?
50\. I shall now deal with the most contentious issue in the present matter.
Apart from the download / purchase feature, the Defendants are also ofering
'on demand streaming services' on their App where the Defendants make the
songs available to public by streaming them online i.e. over internet which
can be accessed through any device connected to internet. The said services of
the Defendants i.e. on demand streaming services, have been impugned by the
Plaintif in Commercial IP Suit (L) No.113 of 2018. There is no dispute about
the fact that 'on demand streaming services' ofered by the Defendants amounts
to communicating of the sound recording to public. It is the Plaintif's case
that such communication of the sound recording to the public without any
authorization from the Plaintif amounts to infringement of the Plaintif's
exclusive right provided in Section 14(1)(e)(iii) of the Act. In reply, the
Defendants have contended that they are broadcasting organizations and that
they have a statutory license under Section 31-D of the Act to communicate to
::: Uploaded on - 06/05/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 07/04/2020 14:53:42 ::: Nitin
47 / 104 the public by way of broadcast of the Plaintif's Repertoire since
they have already given a Notice dated 25th November 2017 contemplated under
Section 31- D(2) of the Act.
51\. The Plaintif has raised a two-pronged objection to the Defendant's
invocation of Section 31-D.
a. The grant of Statutory License under Section 31-D is only restricted to
radio and television broadcasting organisations and the Defendants' on demand
streaming services ofered through internet as an "internet broadcasting
organisation" do not fall within the purview of Section 31-D of the Act.
b. Assuming that 'internet broadcasting' is covered within the provision of
Section 31-D of the Act, Statutory License under the said Section 31-D can
only be exercised upon fixation of the manner and rate of royalty by the
Appellate Board.
52\. In the interest of perspicuity, I have dealt with the Plaintif's
objections individually, as seen below.
The grant of Statutory License under Section 31-D is only restricted to radio
and television broadcasting organisations and the Defendants' on demand
streaming services offered through internet as an "internet broadcasting
organisation" do not fall within the purview of Section 31-D of the Act.  :::
Uploaded on - 06/05/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 07/04/2020 14:53:42 :::
Nitin 48 / 104
53\. Seeking to claim benefit of Section 31-D, the Defendants have contended
that they are a broadcasting organization and that they are communicating to
the public by way of broadcast of the Plaintif's Repertoire over internet. The
question that stems now is that, whether a Statutory License under Section
31-D available to internet broadcasters such as the present Defendants? A
joint reading of the Act and the Rules suggests the answer is in the negative.
Let us see how.
54\. The Ld. Senior Advocate for the Defendants submitted that they are an
internet broadcasting organization and that they are entitled to a Statutory
License under Section 31-D of the Act to broadcast over internet sound
recordings including inter alia the Plaintif's Repertoire. The Defendants
relied upon Section 31-D(1) of the Act which bears a reference to "any"
broadcasting organisation. It is submitted that Section 31-D is plenary and
all-encompassing in nature and thus covers in its purview 'any' broadcasting
organisation. The Ld. Senior Advocate for the Defendants then placed reliance
upon the use of phrases "any means of wireless diffusion" and "any means of
display or diffusion other than by issuing physical copies" found in Sections
2(dd) and 2(f ) of the Act, respectively. He submitted that a bare reading of
Section 31-D along with Sections 2(dd) and 2(f ) clearly expresses that the
legislative intent is that any broadcasting organization, which is
broadcasting / communicating to the public by any means of display or difusion
including wireless and wired difusion, is entitled to a Statutory License
under Section 31-D of the Act.
::: Uploaded on - 06/05/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 07/04/2020 14:53:42 :::
Nitin 49 / 104
55\. The Ld. Senior Advocate for the Defendants further submitted that the
principle of contemporaneo expositio must be applied while interpreting
Section 31-D of the Act. He submitted that a liberal construction of Section
31-D and the definition of broadcast under Section 2(dd) would breathe life
into the statute. He submitted that Section 31-D(3) does not even purport to
detract from or limit the scope of Section 2(f ) when read with Section
31(D)(1) of the Act so as to limit Section 31-D of the Act only to radio and
television broadcasting. He submitted that if such interpretation is
permitted, it would be in direct conflict with Section 2(f ) which allows
broadcasts / communication to the public, by any means of display or difusion.
56\. The Ld. Senior Advocate for the Defendants submitted that Section 31-D(3)
divides broadcast into 'audio broadcasts (radio)' and 'audio-visual broadcasts
(television)'. He submitted that the Defendants are broadcasting sound
recordings over internet. He submitted that internet broadcasting is a type of
audio broadcasting and hence internet broadcasting falls within the term
'radio broadcasting'. He further submitted that in view of the wide language
of Section 31-D(3) and the legislative intent to encompass 'any' broadcasting
organization communicating to the public / broadcasting by 'any' means of
display or difusion, the word "radio" in Section 31-D(3) must be read as
encompassing all means of audio broadcasting, including internet broadcasting.
In support of this  ::: Uploaded on - 06/05/2019 ::: Downloaded on -
07/04/2020 14:53:42 ::: Nitin 50 / 104 submission, the Ld. Senior Advocate for
the Defendants placed reliance upon the following judgments:
a. All Kerala Online Lottery Dealers Association v. State of Kerala (2016) 2
SCC 161 - Statute regulating paper lotteries was held to cover online internet
lotteries; b. Senior Electric Inspector v. Laxminarayan Chopra and Ors. AIR
1962 SC 159 -
the words "telegraphic line" were held to cover devices for wireless
transmission; c. State SIL Import v. Exim Aides Silk Exporters (1999) 4 SCC
567 - Notice in writing under Section 138 of Negotiable Instruments Act, 1881
was held to cover Notice sent by Fax.
57\. In reply, the Ld. Senior Advocate for the Plaintif submitted that Section
14(1)(e) and Section 30 of the Act are couched in a positive language. The two
sections enumerate the rights granted and enjoyed by the owner of a sound
recording. The rights granted under the said sections are exclusive in nature
and grant the owner the right to communicate his sound recording to the public
and to license the same to such persons and to such extent, as the owner may
deem fit. He submitted that Section 31-D of the Act was introduced into the
Act upon the enactment of the Copyright (Amendment) Act, 2012. He submitted
that the said Section contemplates a Statutory License that permits a
broadcaster to broadcast published literary works, musical works and sound
recordings. He submitted that subject to the fulfilment / meeting of the
conditions enumerated under Sub- sections 31-D(2) to 31-D(7), a broadcasting
organization is free to broadcast  ::: Uploaded on - 06/05/2019 ::: Downloaded
on - 07/04/2020 14:53:42 ::: Nitin 51 / 104 published sound recordings without
first obtaining a license from the copyright owner and without his consent.
Section 31-D is an exception to the copyright owner's exclusive right to
otherwise freely license his works on the terms and conditions as he may deem
fit.
58\. The Ld. Senior Advocate for the Plaintif submitted that a Statutory
License is in the nature of an expropriatory legislation; that Section 31-D is
an exception to and deprives the copyright owner's right to license works for
broadcasting on the terms and conditions that he deems fit and proper; that
the said section permits broadcasting of copyright works without the owner's
consent and thus is in the nature of an expropriatory legislation and must be
construed strictly; that the said Section 31-D must not only be read strictly,
but also in a manner so as to put least burden on the expropriated copyright
owner. In this regard the Plaintif relied upon the judgments in (i) Super
Cassettes Industries v. Music Broadcast (2012 5 SCC 488); (ii) Union of India
v. Board of Control for Cricket in India and Ors. 2017 SCC Online SC 991; and
(iii) State of Madhya Pradesh v. Vishnu Prasad Sharma and Ors. AIR 1963 SC
1593. The relevant excerpts of the judgments are reproduced below:
> "Super Cassettes Industries Ltd. vs. Music Broadcast Pvt. Ltd. 2012 5 SCC
> 488
> 56\. Copyright in a "work", undoubtedly, is a valuable legal right
> subsisting in the "owner" or somebody claiming through the owner.
Such a right has more than one dimension. It may have a commercial  :::
Uploaded on - 06/05/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 07/04/2020 14:53:42 ::: Nitin 52
/ 104 value depending upon the quality, nature and the public demand of the
work. It may also have aesthetic value. Whether such a right should be
transferred or not is a matter, essentially, for the "owner" of the copyright
to determine. It is, further, the right of the owner to decide on what terms
and conditions (which need not necessarily be related to money alone), he
would part with the copyright of his work if ever he decides to part with it.
However, Section 31 of the Copyright Act creates an exception to the
abovementioned principle of the right of the owner of the copyright. In
substance - the Section deprives the "copyright" of the "owner" against his
volition. In other words, by Section 31, the State is authorised, by its
coercive powers, to deprive the owner of his copyright in a work, which is his
property and the right to enjoy such property in the manner as the owner of
the property pleases. Necessarily, in view of the constitutional mandate under
Article 300A, such a deprivation can only be by the authority of law and it is
too well entrenched a principle on the constitutional law that such a law
could be only for a public purpose.
Union of India (UOI) and Ors. vs. Board of Control for Cricket in India and
Ors. 2018 (73) PTC 31 (SC)
28\. ... Though much argument has been advanced as to whether Section 3 of the
Sports Act, 2007 is expropriatory in nature, we have no hesitation in holding
the said provision of the Act to be of such a nature inasmuch as it curtails
or abridges the rights of a content rights owner or holder and television or
radio broadcasting service provider, as may be. Sharing of revenue between the
content rights owner or holder and the Prasar Bharati envisaged by Section
3(2) of the Sports Act, 2007 would hardly redeem the situation to take the
Sports Act,  ::: Uploaded on - 06/05/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 07/04/2020
14:53:42 ::: Nitin 53 / 104 2007 out of the category of expropriatory
legislation. Section 3 of the Sports Act, 2007, therefore, has to be
interpreted very strictly. ... State of Madhya Pradesh and Ors. vs. Vishnu
Prasad Sharma and Ors. AIR 1966 SC 1593
3\. ... After the issue of a notification under Section 4, an owner of land in
the locality notified cannot have full beneficial enjoyment of his property;
he cannot, for example, build on his land for if he does so and the land is
acquired, he will get no compensation for the building put up and will lose
the costs incurred for it. If it is a justification for saying that a number
of declarations can be made under Section 6 because otherwise the Government
may have to pay more, it seems to me that it is at least an equal
justification for saying that such declarations cannot have been contemplated
by the Act because that would mean an avoidable deprivation of the owners of
their beneficial enjoyment of lands till such time as the Government is able
to make its plan. As the Act is an expropriatory Act, that interpretation of
it should be accepted which puts the least burden on the expropriated owner.
..."
59\. Ld. Senior Advocate for the Plaintif further submitted that the Copyright
(Amendment) Act, 2012 is a modern statute and it was passed on the basis of
the Copyright Amendment Bill 2010. He submitted that the digital downloading /
surfing of music was very much in the public domain in 2010 / 2012. The
Legislature was therefore fully aware and cognizant of digital technologies
and of music downloading / streaming at the time the said Copyright Amendment
Bill 2010 was passed. He submitted that the Legislature's awareness is
demonstrated  ::: Uploaded on - 06/05/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 07/04/2020
14:53:42 ::: Nitin 54 / 104 from the Statement of Objects and Reasons of the
Copyright (Amendment) Act, 2012, which is reproduced hereinbelow:
> "2. The Act is now proposed to be amended with the object of making certain
> changes for clarity, to remove operational difficulties and also to address
> certain newer issues that have emerged in the context of digital
> technologies and the Internet. The two World Intellectual Property
> Organisation (WIPO) Internet Treaties, namely, WIPO Copyright Treaty (WCT),
> 1996 and WIPO Performances and Phonograms Treaty (WPPT), 1996 have set the
> international standards in these spheres. The WCT and the WPPT were
> negotiated in 1996 to address the challenges posed to the protection of
> Copyrights and Related Rights by digital technology, particularly with
> regard to the dissemination of protected material over digital networks such
> as the Internet. The member countries of the WIPO agreed on the utility of
> having the Internet treaties in the changed global technical scenario and
> adopted them by consensus. In order to extend protection of copyright
> material in India over digital networks such as internet and other computer
> networks in respect of literary, dramatic, musical and artistic works,
> cinematograph films and sound recordings works of performers, it is proposed
> amend the Act to harmonise with the provisions of the two WIPO Internet
> Treaties, to the extent considered necessary and desirable. ..."
60\. Ld. Senior Advocate for the Plaintif submitted that the Legislature was
thus aware and cognizant of the advent of digital technologies and the
internet. The Copyright Amendment Act, 2012 was proposed, inter alia, for
harmonization of the Act with WIPO internet treaties. He submitted that the
absence of express  ::: Uploaded on - 06/05/2019 ::: Downloaded on -
07/04/2020 14:53:42 ::: Nitin 55 / 104 words in Section 31-D providing for a
Statutory License in respect of internet streaming and / or downloading, was
therefore a conscious legislative choice. He submitted that its absence
implies that the Parliament did not seem a licensing regime for internet music
streaming, necessary or desirable.
61\. Ld. Senior Advocate for the Plaintif further submitted that the
Parliament was conscious of music downloading and digital technologies at the
time of enacting the Copyright (Amendment) Act, 2012. He submitted that the
application of the principle of contemporaneo expositio is plainly not
warranted in the facts of the present case. He submitted that doing so would
entail ascribing a purpose to Section 31-D which was plainly not intended and
/ or warranted. In this respect the Plaintif has sought to distinguish the
judgments relied upon by the Defendants in the cases - (i) Senior Electric
Inspector & Ors. v. Laxminarayan Chopra & Anr. AIR 1962 SC 159, (ii) All
Kerala Lottery Dealers Association v. State of Kerala & Ors. (2016) 2 SCC 161,
and (iii) State of Punjab & Ors. v. Amritsar Beverages Ltd. & Ors. (2006) 7
SCC 607. The relevant excerpts of the judgments are reproduced below:
> "The Senior Electric Inspector and Ors. vs. Laxmi Narayan Chopra and Ors.
> AIR 1962 SC 159
> 7\. ... in the year 1885 the Legislature could not have dreamt of the future
> discovery of wireless telegraphy and, therefore, could not have intended to
> use the expression "telegraph line" in a comprehensive sense so as to take
> in electric wires of a receiving station of wireless telegraphy.
::: Uploaded on - 06/05/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 07/04/2020 14:53:42 :::
> Nitin 56 / 104 All Kerala Online Lottery Dealers Association vs. State of
> Kerala and Ors. (2016) 2 SCC 161
> 27\. ... The relevant provisions of the Act clearly demonstrate that even
> though all types of lotteries are meant to be regulated by the said Act,
> online lotteries were not under the contemplation of the Central Government
> at the time when the Act came into force.
> State of Punjab and Ors. vs. Amritsar Beverages Ltd. and Ors. (2006) 7 SCC
> 607
> 9\. The Act was enacted in the year 1948. Information Technology at that
> time far from being developed was unknown. Constitution of India is a living
> organ. It had been interpreted differently having regard to different
> societal situations. [See Liverpool & London S.P. & I Association Ltd. v.
> M.V. Sea Success I and Anr. (2004) 9 SCC 512 , Union of India v. Naveen
> Jindal and Anr. AIR 2004 SC 1559 , John Vallamattom and Anr. v. Union of
> India AIR 2003 SC 2902 and Kapila Hingorani v. State of Bihar (2003) IIILLJ
> 31 SC]. Same principle is applicable in respect of some statutes.
> Creative interpretation had been resorted to by the Court so as to achieve a
> balance between the age old and rigid laws on the one hand and the advanced
> technology, on the other. The Judiciary always responds to the need of the
> changing scenario in regard to development of technologies. It uses its own
> interpretative principles to achieve a balance when Parliament has not
> responded to the need to amend the statute having regard to the developments
> in the field of science."
62\. Ld. Senior Advocate for the Plaintif submitted that in the aforesaid
cases the statutes / provisions before the Court were either antiquated / old
/ rigid, or the  ::: Uploaded on - 06/05/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 07/04/2020
14:53:42 ::: Nitin 57 / 104 Legislature had not contemplated the circumstance
at the time of passing the law. It is submitted that the subject statute i.e.
Section 31-D of the Act is of modern provenance and the Legislature was aware
of service providers such as the Defendants at the time of enacting Copyright
(Amendment) Act, 2012. It is further submitted that in the case of All Kerala
Online Lottery Dealers Association vs. State of Kerala and Ors. (supra) and
State of Punjab and Ors. vs. Amritsar Beverages Ltd. and Ors. (supra), the
provisions before the Court were procedural legislations. It is submitted that
expropriatory legislations such as the present Section 31-D cannot be
construed in a 'creative manner' to trample over the expropriated owner's
rights.
63\. Ld. Senior Advocate for the Plaintif submitted that the Defendants must
establish that they are 'broadcasting organizations' entitled to a license
under Section 31-D of the Act. He submitted that the only two types of
broadcasting as contemplated by Section 31-D are 'radio broadcasting' and
'television broadcasting'. In this respect, my attention was drawn to Section
31-D(3) which contemplates that the rate of royalty for radio broadcasting
shall be diferent from the rate for television broadcasting and both such
rates shall be fixed by the Appellate Board. He submitted that no other mode
of broadcast is contemplated. The legislative command to the Appellate Board
that it must fix separate rates for television and radio broadcasting is, as
argued by the Plaintif, to be the definition of the Appellate Board's
exclusive jurisdiction to fix royalty rates. He submitted  ::: Uploaded on -
06/05/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 07/04/2020 14:53:42 ::: Nitin 58 / 104 that the
Appellate Board's power to fix rate of royalty is circumscribed and limited to
the fixation of 'television' and 'radio' broadcasting rates only. He further
submitted that the Appellate Board has no jurisdiction to fix rates for any
other form of broadcast or communication to the public. It can only exercise
such power as is vested in it by the statute. He submitted that the law
requires that the Appellate Board must trace its substantive power to fix
rates for a subject from the Act itself.
64\. Ld. Senior Advocate for the Plaintif relied upon the case of Super
Cassettes Industries v. Music Broadcast (P) Ltd. (supra) wherein the Hon'ble
Supreme Court observed that the erstwhile Copyright Board did not have the
power to grant an interim license in exercise of its power under Section 31 of
the Act to grant a Compulsory License. The said decision was based on the
rationale that there was no express statutory conferment of such power.
Accordingly, he submitted that the power of the Appellate Board to fix royalty
rates for internet broadcasting must be clearly and expressly defined and in
the absence of such clear definition, it must be held that the Appellate Board
does not have the power to fix royalty in so far as internet broadcasting is
concerned.
65\. In tandem, the Ld. Senior Advocate for the Plaintif also referred to
Rules 29 and 31 of the Rules and submitted that Rule 29 provides for the
particulars of the notice required under Section 31-D of the Act. He submitted
that a perusal of Rules 29(3) and 29(4) would reveal that the Rules only
contemplate the  ::: Uploaded on - 06/05/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 07/04/2020
14:53:42 ::: Nitin 59 / 104 furnishing of details pertaining to 'radio' and /
or 'television broadcasting'. He submitted that Rule 31 provides for the
manner of determining royalties under Section 31-D. Once again, the said rule
only contemplates 'radio' and 'television broadcasting'. Further, Ld. Senior
Advocate for the Plaintif relied upon the Report of the Rajya Sabha
Parliamentary Standing Committee to point out that the object of Section 31-D
was to ensure that the public had access to FM radio networks. According to
him, therefore, the totality of all these provisions, make it clear that the
Legislature intended to restrict Section 31-D licenses to 'radio' and
'television' broadcasting in their classic sense.
66\. I have considered the above submissions advanced by the Ld. Senior
Advocates appearing for the parties. Indeed, the Copyright (Amendment) Act,
2012 is a modern statute and cannot be termed as old or archaic. The
Legislature was well aware of existence of prevalent digital technologies and
trends, including the sharing, streaming and downloading of music when the
Copyright (Amendment) Bill, 2010 was before it. The same is evident from a
reading of the Statement of Objects and Reasons of the Copyright Amendment
Act, 2012. The expropriatory nature of Section 31-D cannot be denied. The
rights of such owner of a sound recording are given under Section 14(1)(e) and
Section 30 of the Act. Section 31- D acts as a statutory exception to the rule
that a copyrighted work is the exclusive property of its owner and he may deal
with it as he may deem fit. It was only in 2012, vide the amendment to the
Act, that the Legislature made additions to the  ::: Uploaded on - 06/05/2019
::: Downloaded on - 07/04/2020 14:53:42 ::: Nitin 60 / 104 Act, including,
inter alia, the subject Section 31-D. It would not be going far to say that
the Legislature had intended specific circumstances where the Statutory
License under the said section would constitute an exception to a copyright
owner's exclusive rights. In view thereof, along with the caution advised by
the Apex Court in Super Cassettes Industries v. Music Broadcast (supra); Union
of India v. Board of Control for Cricket in India and Ors. (supra); and the
State of Madhya Pradesh v. Vishnu Prasad Sharma and Ors. (supra) in respect of
expropriatory legislations, Section 31-D must be construed strictly in
conformity with the specific intention for which it was enacted.
67\. Further, from a perusal of the Statement of Objects and Reasons of the
Copyright Amendment Act, 2012 it seems that the Legislature was in fact aware
of and cognizant of the digital technologies and of music downloading /
streaming when the bill was discussed at the Parliament. Section 31-D(3) was a
deliberate addition to include an exception to a copyright owners exclusive
rights. The absence of express words in Section 31-D providing for a Statutory
License in respect of internet streaming and / or downloading, was a conscious
legislative choice. In view of the above and in the absence of an express
statutory provision including internet broadcasting within the purview of
Section 31-D, the scope of Section 31-D cannot be expanded to include the
same. It appears from a reading of the Rajya Sabha Parliamentary Standing
Committee Report, that the object of Section 31-D was to ensure that the
public had access to FM radio networks. As  ::: Uploaded on - 06/05/2019 :::
Downloaded on - 07/04/2020 14:53:42 ::: Nitin 61 / 104 aforesaid, the
legislation enacting the subject section is relatively recent and the
Legislature was aware of services such as the services ofered by the
Defendants. Clearly, the Legislature did not intend to include internet
broadcasting within the ambit of Section 31-D.
68\. The factual matrix before the Courts in Senior Electric Inspector & Ors.
v.
Laxminarayan Chopra & Anr. (supra), All Kerala Lottery Dealers Association v.
State of Kerala & Ors. (supra), and State of Punjab & Ors. v. Amritsar
Beverages Ltd. & Ors. (supra) were completely distinct from the matter at
hand. The statutes / provisions in consideration before the Court in All
Kerala Lottery Dealers Association v. State of Kerala & Ors. (supra), and
State of Punjab & Ors. v. Amritsar Beverages Ltd. & Ors. (supra) were old and
antiquated and thus called for the application of the doctrine of
contemporaneo expositio. In Senior Electric Inspector & Ors. v. Laxminarayan
Chopra & Anr. (supra) the Legislature could not have possibly "dreamt of"
including wireless telegraphy within the purview of the Act. That is not the
present case. Neither was the Legislature oblivious of the existence of
services of the nature as those provided by the present Defendants at the time
of introducing Section 31-D to the Act, nor can the said Section 31-D or the
Copyright (Amendment) Act, 2012 be considered old / antiquated. Thus, in the
facts of the present case, in my view the Defendants cannot draw any support
from the said judgments.
::: Uploaded on - 06/05/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 07/04/2020 14:53:42 :::
Nitin 62 / 104
69\. Further, a bare perusal of the Rules 29 and 31 of the Rules also supports
the view that Section 31-D is a statutory licensing regime meant only for
'radio' and 'television' broadcasting and not internet broadcasting. Rules 29
and 31 of the Rules are reproduced hereunder:
> "Rule 29. Notice for Communication to the Public of literary and musical
> works and sound recordings.--
> (1) Any broadcasting organization desirous of communicating to the public by
> way of broadcast or by way of performance of a published literary or musical
> work and sound recording under sub-section (1) of section 31D shall give a
> notice of its intention to the owner of the copyright and to the Registrar
> of Copyrights before a period of five days in advance of such communication
> to the public and shall pay to the owner of the copyright, in the literary
> or musical work or sound recording or any combination thereof, the amount of
> royalties due at the rate fixed by the Board in this regard:
> Provided that in case of communication to the public by way of broadcast or
> by way of performance of a newly published literary or musical work or sound
> recording or any combination thereof, which has been published within the
> said period of five days of such communication and which do not form part of
> the scheduled programmes, the notice shall, be given before such
> communication to the public:
> Provided further that in case of communication to the public by way of
> broadcast or by way of performance of any published literary or musical work
> and sound recording or any combination thereof, in unforeseen circumstances,
> the notice shall, be given within twenty-four hours of such communication to
> the public:
> Provided also that any broadcasting organization shall give a notice under
> this Chapter only after the royalty to be paid is determined by the Board
> under rule 31 and published in the Official Gazette and in the website of
> the Copyright Office and the Board.
::: Uploaded on - 06/05/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 07/04/2020 14:53:42 :::
     Nitin                                    63 / 104
            (2)    Every such notice shall be in respect of works belonging to one owner
                   only.
            (3)    Separate notices shall be given for communication to the public by way
> of radio broadcast or television broadcast or by way of performance of a
> literary or musical work and sound recording which has already been
> published.
(4) The notice under sub-rule (1) shall contain the following particulars,
namely:--
            (a)    Name of the channel;
            (b)    Territorial coverage where communication to public by way of radio
broadcast, television broadcast or performance under sub-rule (3) is to be
made;
(c) Details necessary to identify the work which is proposed to be
communicated to the public by way of radio broadcast, television broadcast or
performance under sub-rule (3);
            (d)    Year of publication of such work, if any;
            (e)    Name, address and nationality of the owner of the copyright in such
                   works;
            (f)    Names of authors and principal performers of such works;
            (g)    alterations, if any, which are proposed to be made for the
communication to the public by way of radio broadcast, television broadcast or
performance of the works, reasons thereof, and the evidence of consent of the
owners of rights, if required, for making such alteration;
(h) Mode of the proposed communication to the public, i.e. radio, television
or performance;
(i) Name, if any, of the programme in which the works are to be included; ( j)
Details of time slots, duration and period of the programme in which the works
are to be included;
(k) Details of the payment of royalties at the rates fixed by the Board; and
(l) Address of the place where the records and books of account are to be
maintained for inspection by the owner of rights.
Rule 31. Manner of determining royalties.-
(1) The Board shall immediately after its constitution either suo motu or on
receipt of a request from any interested person, give public notice of its
intention to fix royalties for communication to the public of literary or
musical works and sound recordings under section 31D and may  ::: Uploaded on
- 06/05/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 07/04/2020 14:53:42 ::: Nitin 64 / 104 invite
suggestions for determining the same. Such notice shall be given separately
for radio and television broadcasting. (2) The notice under sub-rule (1) shall
be published by the Board in the Official Gazette and shall be re-published in
two daily news papers having circulation in the major part of the country and
shall be posted on the website of the Copyright Office and the Board.
(3) Any owner of copyright or any broadcasting organisation or any other
interested person may within thirty days from the date of publication of
public notice under sub-rule (1) shall give suggestions with adequate evidence
as to the rate of royalties to be fixed including different rates for
different works and different formats.
(4) The Board shall after giving an opportunity being heard to the persons who
made relevant suggestions under sub-rule (3), consider such suggestions, as it
deems fit.
(5) The Board shall within a period of two months from the last date of
receipt of suggestions, determine separate rates of royalty to be paid to the
owners of literary or musical work and sound recordings for radio and
television broadcasting respectively.
(6) The Board shall determine the royalties payable to the owner of the
copyright under sub-section (2) of section 31D for radio and television
broadcast separately.
(7) The Board while determining royalty shall take into consideration the
following factors, namely:-
(a) time slot in which the broadcast takes place and different rates for
different time slot including repeat broadcast;
(b) different rates for different class of works;
(c) different rates for different nature of use of work;
(d) the prevailing standards of royalties with regard to such works;
(e) the terms and conditions included in the Grant of Permission Agreement
(GOPA) between Ministry of Information and Broadcasting and the broadcaster
for Operating Frequency Modulation (FM) Radio Broadcasting Service; and
(f) such other matters as may be considered relevant by the Board.  :::
Uploaded on - 06/05/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 07/04/2020 14:53:42 :::
Nitin 65 / 104 (8) The Board while determining the payment of royalties under
sub-rule (5) shall take into consideration, the following factors, namely:-
(a) works included in the scheduled programmes;
(b) works newly published and not included in the scheduled programme;
(c) works communicated to the public on unexpected circumstances; and
(d) use of works in excess of the duration, different time slot or territorial
coverage than mentioned in the notice.
The Board may revise the rates of royalties periodically, at least once in a
year keeping in view the provisions of these rules."
(Emphasis Supplied)
70\. The notice requirements of Rule 29 are only in respect of (i) radio
broadcasting,
(ii) television broadcasting and (iiii) performance (which is not applicable
to the facts of this case). Since Rule 29 only contemplates issuance of notice
for these three categories, it supports the submissions that Section 31-D
covers only radio broadcasting and television broadcasting. Further, such view
is also fortified by Rule 31 of the Rules which contemplates determination of
royalties only in respect of television and radio broadcasting. Further, a
perusal of the Rajya Sabha Parliamentary Standing Committee Report makes it
clear that the objection of Section 31-D was to ensure that the public had
access to works over the FM radio networks. The concerns raised before the
Rajya Sabha Parliamentary Standing Committee were limited to 'radio' and
'television' industries, which reflects that, what was contemplated while
introducing Section 31-D was radio and television broadcasting alone. Even in
so far as other amendments were concerned, the Rajya Sabha Parliamentary
Standing Committee understood 'broadcast' to mean  ::: Uploaded on -
06/05/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 07/04/2020 14:53:42 ::: Nitin 66 / 104 either
radio or television broadcast alone. The following excerpts from the Rajya
Sabha Parliamentary Standing Committee Report are relevant:
> "9.12 The Committee observes that the main contention between
> authors/composers of film lyrics and music compositions and Film/Producers
> Music Companies is about the rights relating to film music. Film music
> rights are bundle of copyrights which include synchronization right,
> performing rights, mechanical reproduction right and sound recording right.
> Synchronisation right is that when a music or song is synchronised to a
> film, video, television or commercial etc. Performing rights are right to
> perform music in public specially in broadcasting (TV /Radio), restaurants,
> airlines, auditoriums or public functions etc. Mechanical reproduction
> rights are a royalty paid to a song writer whenever a copy of one of their
> songs is made. Sound recording rights are owned by producer or a recording
> company.
> 15.2 The Committee finds that the introduction of system of statutory
> licensing has been proposed so as to ensure that public has access to
> musical works over the FM radio networks and at the same time, the owner of
> copyright works is also not subject to any disadvantages. The Committee has
> been given to understand that this system would work in favour of users of
> copyright works who would then not be subject to lengthy, expensive and
> monopolistic negotiations by the owners of the work.
15.3 Divergent views were expressed by different stakeholders on the viability
of this amendment. Welcoming it as a positive move, the Indian Broadcasting
Foundation pointed out that with pre-worked terms and conditions, a
broadcasting organization would have far greater certainty in terms of its
operation cost. Also number of disputes  ::: Uploaded on - 06/05/2019 :::
Downloaded on - 07/04/2020 14:53:42 ::: Nitin 67 / 104 arising due to
arbitrary and unreasonable demands of copyright owners would likely to be
quite low. However, very strong reservations were expressed by organizations
like South India Music Companies Association, Indian Music Industry,
Phonographic Performance Ltd., Indian Performing Right Society Ltd. and RPG
Enterprises- Saregama on the following grounds:
\- the new regime of 'statutory licensing' of music to broadcasters appears to
be discriminating as the copyright owner/author has been denied any say in the
fixing of royalty.
\- like music industry, the broadcasting (except AIR) industry is in the
private sector.
\- radio industry is risk-free and solely profit-oriented and already offered
concessions by the Government. Reasons for music industry which takes risks in
bringing out music being singled out are not known.
\- television industry is a long established industry, not needing any
support. However, with such a provision for broadcasting industry, Television
industry may also seek concessional licensing for their programmes as well.
\- it will drastically reduce the number of works, societies can administer by
excluding all those works where the author has already assigned his rights."
It is evident from the above paragraphs that the Rajya Sabha Parliamentary
Standing Committee itself understood that 'broadcast' under Section 31-D was
limited to either 'radio' or 'television' broadcasting only.
71\. Further, the contention of the Defendants that they are broadcasting
sound recordings over internet and that internet broadcasting is a type of
audio  ::: Uploaded on - 06/05/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 07/04/2020 14:53:42
::: Nitin 68 / 104 broadcasting and hence internet broadcasting falls within
the term 'radio broadcasting' is misplaced. Firstly, there is nothing in the
definition of the term ''broadcast' or other provisions of the Act concerning
'broadcast' which supports this submission. Digital downloading or surfing of
music was in the public domain when the Copyright Amendment Bill 2010 was
introduced and when the Copyright Amendment Act 2012 was passed. The
Legislature was thus fully aware and cognizant of the digital technologies and
of music downloading / streaming in 2010 and 2012. The same is also evident
from the excerpts (reproduced in the preceding paragraph) of the Rajya Sabha
Parliamentary Standing Committee Report. It is pertinent to note that despite
the said position, the Legislature consciously decided not to specifically
introduce the term 'internet broadcasting' in Section 31-D of the Act. There
is one more factor which throws light on this aspect. Section 52 of the Act
provides for 'Certain acts not to be infringement of copyright'. Section 52
(1) (b) and (c) of the Act which were introduced by the Copyright Amendment
Act, 2012 are meant for providing protection to the Internet Service Providers
which makes it evident that the technology pertaining to downloading/streaming
over internet was very well within the knowledge of the Legislature and that
the Legislature even made provisions for the protection of internet service
providers. Despite the said position, the Legislature in its wisdom decided
not to introduce the words 'internet broadcasting' in Section 31-D of the Act.
This shows the conscious  ::: Uploaded on - 06/05/2019 ::: Downloaded on -
07/04/2020 14:53:42 ::: Nitin 69 / 104 choice of the Legislature in not
including 'internet broadcasting' within the scope of Section 31-D of the Act.
72\. I am therefore in agreement with the Plaintif that the provisions of
Section 31-D read with Rules 29 to 31 coupled with the legislative history
preceding the passage of Copyright Amendment Act, 2012 clearly support the
submission that Section 31-D contemplates only television and radio
broadcasting and not internet broadcasting.
Whether License under the said Section 31-D can only be exercised upon
fixation of the rate of royalty by the Appellate Board?
73\. The Ld. Senior Advocate for the Plaintif submitted that Section 31-D(1),
as relied upon by the Defendants, cannot be read in isolation. He submitted
that Section 31-D(1) is a prefatory clause that enables a broadcasting
organisation to broadcast published literary, musical works and sound
recordings. However, this enablement is not plenary or unfettered. This is
borne from the fact that the words "may do so" are followed by and qualified
by the words "subject to the provisions of this section". Thus, the Statutory
License under this section is contingent upon compliance of Sections 31(2) to
31(8).
74\. The Plaintif has relied upon the conditions imposed under Section 31-D(2)
of the Act. The Section imposes two conditions upon a broadcasting
organisation i.e. (i) to give prior notice to the owner of the copyright and
(ii) to pay royalties in  ::: Uploaded on - 06/05/2019 ::: Downloaded on -
07/04/2020 14:53:42 ::: Nitin 70 / 104 the manner and at the rate fixed by the
Appellate Board. It is submitted that the obligation to pay is mandatory due
to the inclusion of the words "shall pay" preceding the words "owner of rights
in each work". The use of the word "and" preceding the condition to pay
royalties at the rate fixed by the Appellate Board indicates the obligation to
pay royalties at the fixed rate in conjunction with the obligation to give
notice to the owner. It is pointed out that the verbiage employed by the
Legislature is "at the rate fixed", which is in the past tense. Thus, the
Legislature intended the rate to be fixed prior to the broadcast. If intention
was to fix the rates subsequent to the broadcast, the words employed would be
"to be fixed" or of similar nature.
75\. To support the aforesaid interpretation the Plaintif placed reliance on
Rules 29, 30, and 31 of the Rules. Rule 30 of the Rules is reproduced below:
> "30. Maintaining of records.--
> (1) Records containing the details of the owners in respect of total number
> of works broadcast, the details of such works and the time slot, duration
> and period of the broadcast shall be maintained by the broadcasting
> organisation at its principal place of business and shall be open to
> inspection on prior notice by the owner of rights or his duly authorized
> agent or representative in the works during business hours and may obtain
> copies of relevant extracts from such records at their cost. The
> broadcasting organization shall maintain separate records for radio
> broadcasting and television broadcasting.
(2) The broadcasting organisation shall maintain separate books of accounts
for communication to public by way of broadcast containing  ::: Uploaded on -
06/05/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 07/04/2020 14:53:42 ::: Nitin 71 / 104 such
details as may be determined by the Board at the time of fixing the rate of
royalty and render to the owners of rights such reports and accounts."
76\. The Ld. Senior Advocate for the Plaintif submitted that similar to
Section 31-
> D(2), Rule 29 imposes an obligation upon the broadcaster to give a prior
> notice to the owner informing its intention to pay royalty at the rate fixed
> by the Appellate Board. Even here the rule contemplates a prior fixation of
> the royalty rates.
Furthermore, the third proviso of Rule 29 categorically states that such prior
notice shall be sent only after the royalty to be paid is determined by the
Board under Rule 31. It is also submitted that Rule 29(4) stipulates the
particulars that a broadcaster must include in its notice to the owner. Rule
29(4)(k) requires the broadcaster to specify the details of the payment of
royalties at the rates fixed by the Appellate Board. This requirement further
posits that the fixation of rates has preceded the issuance of a notice. It is
further submitted that by and under Rule 31 the Appellate Board is obligated
to fix the rate of royalty either suo motu, or on receipt of a request from
"any interested person". This clearly indicates that on an application being
made by any interested person or even suo motu, the Appellate Board may fix
the rate of royalty which shall be applicable throughout the industry,
including broadcasting organisation, before giving the notice under Section
31-D and Rule 29 of the Act. It is submitted that the Defendants were aware of
the condition that prior fixation of royalty rates by the Appellate Board is
::: Uploaded on - 06/05/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 07/04/2020 14:53:42 ::: Nitin
72 / 104 necessary, as the same is evinced by their letter addressed to the
Plaintif dated 24th November 2017 wherein it was stated:
> "7. ... Since the Hon'ble Appellate Board is yet to notify the rates for
> such broadcast, we are tendering a sum of Rs, 10,00,000/- being the 1 st
> tranche payment of royalty as was to you pursuant to the license agreement.
> ..."
77\. The Ld. Senior Advocate for the Plaintif submitted that the question of
whether payment to be made in advance is neither relevant nor determinative.
Even where royalty is fixed, there can be a provision for payment of royalty
in advance. Advance in such cases is only a method of accounting or
adjustment. It is submitted that a plain reading of Section 31-D(4)
contemplates that the broadcaster if directed by the Board, will pay an
'advance' ; all that this means is that the Board may, if it considers
appropriate, whilst fixing royalty, prescribe a methodology for making payment
of royalty due; this mechanism may contemplate some payment being made upfront
as an advance; whether this obligation is directory or mandatory, an advance
is inherently a monetary obligation to make payment before the commission of
an act. It is submitted that an advance must also be clearly a quantified sum
of money; such quantification must logically precede actual payment, which
itself must precede the broadcast; thus, quantification or 'fixing' must also
be done in advance. It is submitted that since the section contemplates that a
direction to pay an advance emanates from the Appellate Board, the authority
must quantify this sum much prior to  ::: Uploaded on - 06/05/2019 :::
Downloaded on - 07/04/2020 14:53:42 ::: Nitin 73 / 104 broadcast.
Consequently, in these circumstances and coupled with the inherent nature of
an advance, a fixation of rates by the Board must necessarily precede any
broadcast under Section 31-D. It is therefore submitted that the section
clearly postulates that fixation of rates is a condition precedent to
broadcast.
78\. In response to the Plaintif's interpretation of Sec 31-D of the Act, that
fixation of royalty rates is a necessary precondition to grant of Statutory
License under the section, it is submitted on behalf of the Defendants that if
the scheme and language of Sections 31, 31-C and 31-D of the Act are
considered and compared, it would be clear that the Statutory License under
Section 31-D operates without prior fixation of royalty by the Appellate
Board, and without requiring royalty to be paid to the owner in advance.
79\. It is submitted by the Defendants that Section 31-C of the Act is
available to anyone desirous of making cover versions of a sound recording and
Section 31- C(2) specifically requires such person to pay royalties in advance
to the copyright owner at the rate fixed by the Appellate Board. It is
submitted that Section 31-D is available only to a defined / restricted class,
i.e. broadcasting organisations and does not require royalty to be paid to the
copyright owner in advance as is provided in case of Section 31-C(2). It is
submitted that Section 31-D(4) provides that while fixing the royalty the
Appellate Board may require the broadcasting organization to pay an advance
even before the royalty is fixed by the Appellate Board. It is submitted that
Section 31-D therefore makes a clear departure from  ::: Uploaded on -
06/05/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 07/04/2020 14:53:42 ::: Nitin 74 / 104 the
scheme / language of Section 31-C and does not provide for payment of
royalties in advance except as may be decided by the Appellate Board under
Section 31-D(4). It is further submitted that Legislative intent behind
Section 31- D was to enable broadcasting organizations to communicate sound
recordings to the public by way of broadcast, without first going through the
lengthy process of fixation of royalty rates by the Appellate Board.
80\. Relying upon Section 31-D(4), the Defendants submitted that Section 31-D
automatically kicks in upon giving prior notice and without fixation of rates.
The Defendants argue that had the legislature intended for payment to precede
broadcast under Section 31-D, it would have used language similar to that of
Section 31-C.
81\. Section 31-C of the Act is reproduced below:
> "Section 31-C \- Statutory licence for cover versions (1) Any person
> desirous of making a cover version, being a sound recording in respect of
> any literary, dramatic or musical work, where sound recordings of that work
> have been made by or with the licence or consent of the owner of the right
> in the work, may do so subject to the provisions of this section:
> Provided that such sound recordings shall be in the same medium as the last
> recording, unless the medium of the last recording is no longer in current
> commercial use.
(2) The person making the sound recordings shall give prior notice of his
intention to make the sound recordings in the manner as may be  ::: Uploaded
on - 06/05/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 07/04/2020 14:53:42 ::: Nitin 75 / 104
prescribed, and provide in advance copies of all covers or labels with which
the sound recordings are to be sold, and pay in advance, to the owner of
rights in each work royalties in respect of all copies to be made by him, at
the rate fixed by the Appellate Board in this behalf: Provided that such sound
recordings shall not be sold or issued in any form of packaging or with any
cover or label which is likely to mislead or confuse the public as to their
identity, and in particular shall not contain the name or depict in any way
any performer of an earlier sound recording of the same work or any
cinematograph film in which such sound recording was incorporated and,
further, shall state on the cover that it is a cover version made under this
section. (3) The person making such sound recordings shall not make any
alteration in the literary or musical work which has not been made previously
by or with the consent of the owner of rights, or which is not technically
necessary for the purpose of making the sound recordings: Provided that such
sound recordings shall not be made until the expiration of five calendar years
after the end of the year in which the first sound recordings of the work was
made.
(4) One royalty in respect of such sound recordings shall be paid for a
minimum of fifty thousand copies of each work during each calendar year in
which copies of it are made:
Provided that the Appellate Board may, by general order, fix a lower minimum
in respect of works in a particular language or dialect having regard to the
potential circulation of such works. (5) The person making such sound
recordings shall maintain such registers and books of account in respect
thereof, including full details  ::: Uploaded on - 06/05/2019 ::: Downloaded
on - 07/04/2020 14:53:42 ::: Nitin 76 / 104 of existing stock as may be
prescribed and shall allow the owner of rights or his duly authorised agent or
representative to inspect all records and books of account relating to such
sound recording: Provided that if on a complaint brought before the Appellate
Board to the effect that the owner of rights has not been paid in full for any
sound recordings purporting to be made in pursuance of this section, the
Appellate Board is, prima facie, satisfied that the complaint is genuine, it
may pass an order ex parte directing the person making the sound recording to
cease from making further copies and, after holding such inquiry as it
considers necessary, make such further order as it may deem fit, including an
order for payment of royalty. Explanation-For the purposes of this section
"cover version" means a sound recording made in accordance with this section."
82\. I have considered the submissions of the Ld. Senior Advocates for the
parties.
Though I have held that 'internet broadcasting' is not covered within the
ambit of Section 31-D of the Act, I am proceeding to consider the further
aspects / issues discussed hereafter including the aspect whether License
under the said Section 31-D can only be exercised upon fixation of the rate of
royalty by the Appellate Board both, considering the importance of the issue
and the express desire of both sides that there be a decisive pronouncement of
this Court on a matter of general importance and on which both sides have
provided me considerable assistance. Section 31-D(3) contemplates that the
rate of royalty for radio broadcasting shall be diferent from the rate for
television broadcasting and both such rates shall be fixed by the Appellate
Board. While Section 31-D(1) ::: Uploaded on - 06/05/2019 ::: Downloaded on -
07/04/2020 14:53:42 ::: Nitin 77 / 104 seems to be conducive to the
Defendants' case, suggesting that a Statutory License is available to any
broadcasting organisation, it stipulates that such license is conditional upon
its conformity with the remaining provisions of the section. Section 31-D(1)
cannot be read in isolation. Section 31-D(2) stipulates that the broadcasting
organisation must send a notice, in the prescribed manner, to the owner
informing of its intention to broadcast his copyrighted work. Such
prescription is found in Rule 29 of the Rules. Once again, Sub rule 29(3)
while stipulating diferent notice must be sent for radio and television
broadcasting, does not contemplate any notice for internet broadcasting.
Furthermore, Sub rule 29(4) only contemplates the furnishing of details of
radio and television broadcasting. Similarly, Rules 29 and 30 do not
contemplate any other broadcasting, except radio and television broadcasting.
83\. Section 31-D(3) of the Act empowers the Appellate Board to fix the rate
of royalty for radio and television broadcasting. The Appellate Board is a
creature of the Act. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Super Cassettes
Industries v. Music Broadcast (supra) demonstrated caution before expanding
the scope of Section 31 to include grant of temporary Compulsory License. The
Court ruled against the Appellate Board's ability to grant such a license in
the absence of an express statutory provision conferring such power.
Similarly, in the absence of an express statutory provision permitting the
Appellate Board to fix the rate of  ::: Uploaded on - 06/05/2019 :::
Downloaded on - 07/04/2020 14:53:42 ::: Nitin 78 / 104 royalty for internet
broadcasting, the same cannot be read in. As of present, the Appellate Board
lacks jurisdiction to fix rate of royalty for internet broadcasting.
84\. Further, a bare perusal of the procedure to obtain Compulsory License /
other non-voluntary licenses under Sections 31, 31-A, 31-B, 31-C, 32 and 32A
of the Act and Rules 7, 8, 11, 12, 18, 19, 27, 32, 34, 35, 39 and 40 of the
Rules governing the procedure for the grant of / obtaining a Compulsory
License / other non- voluntary licenses, and the procedure contemplated under
Section 31-D would make it clear that the common thread underlying all the
afore-quoted sections and their attendant Rules is that royalty has always
been determined by the Appellate Board prior to the grant of licenses and the
exercise of the same. While the basis for claiming a license and the
conditions to be satisfied may vary under the aforesaid Sections 31, 31-A,
31-B, 31-C, 31-D, 32 and 32A, there is no diference in the requirement that
royalty fixation must precede the license. Section 31-D is therefore only a
departure from the old scheme of licensing to the limited extent that it does
away with a hearing to the copyright owner and an inquiry for determining the
necessity and / or requirement of a licence and the Registrar's act of issuing
a license. It, however, does not do away with a prior determination of the
rates for defining the statutory license to be exercised. Had such a radical
departure been intended, the Legislature would have expressed its mind
unequivocally and explicitly, including, by employing the verbiage "to be
fixed" and / or like words to that efect in Section 31-D(2).  ::: Uploaded on
- 06/05/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 07/04/2020 14:53:42 :::
Nitin 79 / 104
85\. The Defendants' submission that had the Legislature intended fixation of
royalty to precede broadcast under Section 31-D of the Act, the language used
by the Legislature in Section 31-D(4) of the Act would be similar to that used
in Section 31-C(2) of the Act is not the correct test to ascertain whether the
Legislature intended prior fixation of royalty rates before exercise of
Statutory License under Section 31-D. As already observed, advance payment of
the royalty is merely the methodology of payment as directed by the Appellate
Board exercising its discretion under Section 31-D(4). It is common ground
that fixation of royalty rates would precede advance payment of royalty, as is
done under Section 31- C(2). However, the absence of a mandate under Section
31-D to pay royalty in advance will not be fatal to the argument of the
Plaintif or necessitate an interpretation, that fixation of rate of royalty is
not a precondition to broadcast under Section 31-D. Thus, in my view
dissimilarity in the verbiage of Sections 31- C(2) and 31-D(4) will be of no
pertinence to the right to broadcast prior to fixation of rate of royalty
within Section 31-D.
86\. The Plaintif has next contented that, assuming internet broadcasting is
contemplated under Section 31-D, the rate of royalty for the same has not been
fixed by the Appellate Board and thus the Defendants are not entitled to a
license. Section 31-D(2) imposes two conditions upon a broadcasting
organisation i.e. (i) to give prior notice to the owner of the copyright and
(ii) to pay royalties in the manner and at the rate fixed by the Appellate
Board. The verbiage employed by  ::: Uploaded on - 06/05/2019 ::: Downloaded
on - 07/04/2020 14:53:42 ::: Nitin 80 / 104 the Legislature is "at the rate
fixed", which is in the past tense. This leads to the construction that the
rate of royalty must be fixed by the Appellate Board prior to the broadcast.
This interpretation is fortified by Rules 29, 30, and 31 of the Rules. The
third proviso of Rule 29 categorically states, that the notice to the owner
may be sent only after royalty to be paid is determined by the Appellate
Board. Rule 29(4)(k) stipulates that in its notice to the owner, the
broadcaster must specify the details of the payment of royalties at the rates
fixed by the Appellate Board. In view of the above, it is clear that prior
fixation of the rate of royalty is a necessary condition to invoking Section
31-D. In my view, the prior fixation of the rate of royalty by the Appellate
Board under Section 31-D of the Act is in fact the heart and soul of the
concept of a Statutory Licence. A joint reading of the Act and Rules therewith
elicits the interpretation that prior fixation of the rate of royalty is the
fundamental and primary criteria for any statutory license to come into
existence in the first place. Without prior fixation of rate of royalty, there
is no question of existence of any statutory license. Hence, Statutory License
under Section 31-D of the Act does not "automatically kick in" once notice is
sent to the owner, without fixation of royalty rates by the Appellate Board.
87\. To summarize the above:
> a. The internet broadcasting organizations cannot enjoy the benefits of a
> Statutory License under Section 31-D. The intention of the Legislature while
> enacting the amending legislation viz. the Copyright (Amendment) Act, 2012,
> was to restrict the grant of Statutory License under Section 31-D :::
> Uploaded on - 06/05/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 07/04/2020 14:53:42 ::: Nitin
> 81 / 104 to radio and television broadcasting organisations. The facts of
> the matter do not occasion the application of the doctrine of contemporaneo
> expositio.
> b. Prior determination of royalty rates is a necessary precondition for the
> exercise of rights in respect of a Statutory License under Section 31-D. A
> holistic reading of the Act and the Rules, including Rules 29, 30 and 31 of
> the Rules, indicate the Legislature's intent to make fixation of royalty
> rates a mandatory step before grant of license under Section 31-D.
88\. Therefore, in my view, in the present case, assuming that 'internet
broadcasting' was covered within the ambit of Section 31-D, the Defendants
could not have exercised Statutory License under the said Section in the
absence of pre-fixation of the rate of royalty by the Appellate Board.
ISSUE C: Whether Rule 29 of The Copyright Rules, 2013 ("The Rules) and the
third proviso thereto are invalid?
89\. The next issue before this Court is whether Rule 29 of the Rules and its
third proviso which provide an interpretation that prior fixation of royalty
rates is necessary before exercise of Statutory License under Section 31-D of
the Act, are invalid.
90\. It is submitted on behalf of the Defendants that Rule 29 of the Rules,
and in particular the third proviso thereto, are ex-facie contrary to and
ultra vires of Section 31-D and are therefore null and void. It is submitted
that the language  ::: Uploaded on - 06/05/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 07/04/2020
14:53:42 ::: Nitin 82 / 104 and intent of Section 31-D clarifies that the
fixation and payment of royalty are not a precondition to a Statutory License
under Section 31-D. However, Rule 29, including its third proviso stipulate
that notice under Section 31-D(2) shall be given only after royalty to be paid
is determined by the Appellate Board under Rule 31. It is submitted that in
such circumstances, the third proviso is in the teeth of the specific
statutory provisions made in Section 31-D and is also destructive of the
statutory language and scheme of Section 31-D. It is further submitted that it
is a well settled law that a Rule / regulation cannot negate or provide
contrary to a provision in the parent legislation. In support the Defendants
relied upon the Hon'ble Supreme Court's decision in State of Bihar & Ors. v.
Anil Kumar and Ors. dated 23rd March 2017 passed in Civil Appeals 4397-4400 of
2017.
91\. In response, the Plaintif submitted that the ratio in the case of Anil
Kumar has no application to the present matter. It is submitted that Rules 29,
30 and 31 of the Rules only implement the legislative intent of prior fixation
of the rate for a licence under the section. It is submitted that the said
rules only injected certainty qua the licensing relations between the licensee
and the copyright owner. Where rates are fixed prior in time, a broadcaster is
put to notice of the rate for broadcasting the work. This prompts a conscious
decision by the broadcaster keeping in mind its financial capabilities, to
schedule the number of broadcasts it wishes to carry out. It is submitted that
the Defendants'  ::: Uploaded on - 06/05/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 07/04/2020
14:53:42 ::: Nitin 83 / 104 interpretation, permitting the exercise of license
without prior fixation of rates would lead to commercial chaos and
uncertainty. Where no obligation is cast upon the broadcaster to initially
approach the Appellate Board for fixing rates, the broadcaster may freely
broadcast the copyrighted works without payment till such time, the rates are
fixed. It is submitted that once the rates are fixed and the broadcaster is
not satisfied with the quantum, it could simply refuse payment. It would thus
cast an onerous obligation upon the copyright owner, whereby he must then sue
the broadcaster for monetary damages for what, in the meantime, would be a
very widespread dissemination of the Plaintif's work to a very large section
of the public. It is submitted that such an interpretation where fixation of
rate is not a necessity, shall permit broadcasters to broadcast the Plaintif's
works with a mere notice without payment, thus compelling the Plaintif to take
action against every such infringer. It is submitted that such an
interpretation is one sided and onerous against the Plaintif. It is submitted
that such interpretation would also run foul of the principle that
expropriatory legislation must be construed in favour of the expropriated
owner.
92\. It is further submitted on behalf of the Plaintif, that the Rules were
framed under a general rule making power under Section 78 of the Act. It is
submitted that the Rules thus form a part of the Act itself. It is submitted
that it is a well settled principle that rules framed in exercise of a general
rule making power are prima facie valid. It is submitted that it is well
settled that the Court must be slow to  ::: Uploaded on - 06/05/2019 :::
Downloaded on - 07/04/2020 14:53:42 ::: Nitin 84 / 104 strike down or stay
rules at the interlocutory stage and the Court must endeavour to interpret the
Act and the rules harmoniously.
93\. I agree with the submissions of the Plaintif, more particularly that
where rates are fixed prior in time, a broadcaster is put to notice of the
rate for broadcasting the work which prompts a conscious decision by the
broadcaster keeping in mind its financial capabilities. Section 31-D is an
expropriatory legislation and the interest of the expropriated copyright
owners must be considered while interpreting the said section. The Defendants'
interpretation of the said section would push the copyright owners into a
perilous position where 'internet broadcasting organizations' could override
the copyright owner's exclusive right over their copyrighted works granted
under the Act and use the works without their prior authorization / licence.
According to the Defendants, Section 31-D does not expressly state that prior
fixation of royalty rates is a necessary precondition to the exercise of
Statutory License under Section 31-D. Hence, they argue that Section 31-D must
be read in isolation without referring to Rule 29 of the Rules and its proviso
which state that prior fixation of royalty rates is a necessary precondition
to the exercise of Statutory License under Section 31-D. If this is accepted
there would be no obligation upon internet broadcasting organizations to pay
royalty to the owners until the Appellate Board decides to fix the royalty
rates. The copyright owners would be left with no option but to approach
Courts of law to seek some form of remedy.
::: Uploaded on - 06/05/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 07/04/2020 14:53:42 :::
Nitin 85 / 104
94\. The present matter is a fit case for the application of the doctrine of
harmonious construction. The Plaintif's interpretation of Section 31-D of the
Act and Rule 29 of the Rules (including its third proviso) permits both, the
said section and the said rule to survive. Additionally, such interpretation
would also benefit the expropriated copyright owners afected by Section 31-D
of the Act.
95\. Therefore, the Defendants' challenge to Rule 29 of the Rules and its
third proviso does not stand and the same are held valid.
ISSUE D: What is the bearing of the Government of India's Office Memorandum
dated 5th September 2016 on the present matter?
96\. The Defendants have relied upon the Government of India's Office
Memorandum dated 5th September 2016 ("said Memorandum") in support of their
interpretation of Section 31-D. It is submitted on behalf of the Defendants
that the Government of India vide the aforesaid Office Memorandum has
clarified that "in view of the above, the words any broadcasting organization
desirous of communicating to the public may not be restrictively interpreted
to cover only radio and television broadcasting, as the definition of
Broadcast read with communication to the public appears to include all kinds
of broad cast including internet broadcasting. Thus, the provisions of Section
31-D of the Copyright Act, 1957 are not restricted to radio and television
broadcasting only but cover internet broadcasting also."
97\. On the other hand, the Ld. Senior Advocate for the Plaintif submitted
that the said Memorandum is contrary to Section 31-D and Rules 29, 30 and 31
of the  ::: Uploaded on - 06/05/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 07/04/2020 14:53:42
::: Nitin 86 / 104 Rules and the legislative history preceding the said
Memorandum. It is submitted that Executive instructions cannot prevail or
override substantive provisions of the statute or Rules that have been framed
pursuant to a rule making power granted under the statute. The Hon'ble Supreme
Court in the case of State of Haryana v. Mahender Singh & Ors. (2007) 13 SCC
606, inter alia held as follows:
> "30. ...
> It is now well-settled that any guidelines which do not have any statutory
> flavour are merely advisory in nature. They cannot have the force of a
> statute. They are subservient to the legislative act and the statutory
> rules. [See Maharao Sahib Shri Bhim Singhji v. Union of India and Ors. AIR
> 1981 SC 234 , J.R. Raghupathy and Ors. v. State of A.P. and Ors. 1988 (38)
> ELT 225 (SC) and Narendra Kumar Maheshwari v. Union of India.]
> 32\. Furthermore, if the Punjab Rules are applicable in the State of Haryana
> in view of the State Reorganisation Act, no executive instruction would
> prevail over the Statutory Rules. ..."
98\. It is submitted on behalf of the Plaintif that the said Memorandum is
contrary to the Government's own stand taken while negotiating the proposed
WIPO broadcaster's treaty. It is submitted that in those negotiations, India
has consistently taken the stance that broadcasts must be understood to mean
only broadcasting in the 'traditional sense' and not through the internet or
the web; the stance was recorded inter alia at para 281, in the report of the
Standing  ::: Uploaded on - 06/05/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 07/04/2020 14:53:42
::: Nitin 87 / 104 Committee of Copyright and Related Rights for the session
held between 15 th to 24th June 2011.
99\. In my view, the interpretation given by the Department of Industrial
Policy and Promotion on behalf of the Govt. of India, is contrary to the
interpretation of Section 31-D, drawn under the Act and the Rules which I have
observed hereinbefore. The said Memorandum does not seem to be drawing its
power from any legislation. As pointed out above, the Hon'ble Supreme Court in
the case of State of Haryana v. Mahender Singh & Ors. (supra) has held that
guidelines without any statutory aid are merely advisory in nature. The
Hon'ble Supreme Court has further held that such guidelines are subservient to
the legislative act and the statutory rules. While I am bound by the Hon'ble
Supreme Court's rationale, I also concur with their holding on the issue.
100\. A perusal of the Report of the Standing Committee on Copyright and
Related Rights (session held between 15th June 2011 and 24th June 2011) relied
upon by the Plaintif, makes it clear that the interpretation given by the
Department of Industrial Policy and Promotion on behalf of the Govt. of India
is contrary to its own stand taken while negotiating the proposed WIPO
broadcaster's treaty. The said paragraph 281 of the Report of the Standing
Committee on Copyright and Related Rights is reproduced hereunder:
"281. The Delegation of India, while supporting the expert opinion of the
differences between traditional platform and new platform by the  ::: Uploaded
on - 06/05/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 07/04/2020 14:53:42 ::: Nitin 88 / 104
Delegation of Iran, reiterated that there was no need to revisit and revise
the mandate given by the General Assembly in 2007. That mandate given to the
SCCR was the signal-based approach in a traditional sense. Traditional
platforms meant, as explained by the Delegation of Iran, the broadcasting
organizations and the cablecasting organizations, and not broadcasting over
Internet or webcasting, simulcasting over Internet, podcasting or any other
method of broadcasting."
101\. The said Memorandum lacks a 'statutory flavour' and cannot prevail over
interpretation which is drawn under the Act and the Rules (which in-turn were
formed under Section 70 of the Act). The interpretation of Section 31-D in the
said Memorandum is inconsistent with the interpretation drawn by this Court
and this Court is not bound by the said Memorandum.
ISSUE E: Whether pending the suit, the Defendants may be permitted to use the
Plaintiff's Repertoire upon payment of deposit?
102\. The Defendants have proposed that upon monetary deposit with this Court,
they may be permitted to broadcast the Plaintif's Repertoire over internet
till such time that the Appellate Board fixes the royalty for internet
broadcasting. This proposition is vehemently opposed by the Plaintif. Since I
have held that Section 31-D is not applicable to internet broadcasting at all,
the question of  ::: Uploaded on - 06/05/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 07/04/2020
14:53:42 ::: Nitin 89 / 104 allowing the Defendants to broadcast the
Plaintif's Repertoire over internet upon payment of monetary deposit with this
Court does not arise.
103\. Further, even for the sake of argument, if it was to be assumed that
internet broadcasting is covered under Section 31-D of the Act, it would not
enable the Defendants to broadcast the Plaintif's Repertoire by depositing any
sum of money with this Court at this stage, since the manner and the rate of
royalty for internet broadcasting has not been fixed by the Appellate Board
till today. Further, since the power and jurisdiction to decide the manner in
which the Royalty is to be paid and the rate at which it is to be paid is
vested exclusively with the Appellate Board alone, this Court would not have
jurisdiction to permit the Defendant to broadcast the repertoire of the
Plaintif before such manner and rate of the royalty has been fixed by the
Appellate Board.
104\. In any event, it is submitted on behalf of the Plaintif that such
permission if granted to the Defendants shall tantamount to this Court
allowing a Compulsory License of the Plaintif's works to the Defendants. The
Plaintif relied upon the judgment of a Division Bench of this Court in Music
Choice India Pvt. Ltd. v. Phonographic Performance Ltd. reported in 2010 112
(1) BOM LR 0470 holding that the issuance of such orders is impermissible
since they amount to granting Compulsory License of the Plaintif's works,
which this Court lacks jurisdiction to grant. The relevant excerpt of the
judgment is reproduced below:
"19. In the instant case, the Plaintiff has already filed an application /
complaint under Section 31(l)(b) of the Act and thus, invoked the  :::
Uploaded on - 06/05/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 07/04/2020 14:53:42 ::: Nitin 90
/ 104 jurisdiction of the Board for grant of compulsory license. No doubt, the
said application is pending may be for the last more than two years. However,
it is the exclusive jurisdiction of the Board to grant such a license. It is
well settled, unless such a license is granted, the Plaintiff has no right to
broadcast in the repertoire of the Defendant and if the Plaintiff does so
without obtaining the license, such an act would fall within the ambit of
Section 51 of the Act i.e infringement of the Copyright and consequently, it
would be an offence under Section 63 of the Act. ... What is prayed by the
Plaintiff in the suit filed by it before the learned Trial Judge is nothing
short of compulsory license within the meaning of Section 31(l)(b) of the Act
while its application for the very same purpose is pending before the Board, a
statutory authority. Thus, the relief prayed for in the suit is impliedly a
relief for grant of compulsory license which authority is exclusively vested
with the Board. Such a relief cannot be granted by the Civil Court and
therefore, in our opinion the learned Trial Judge was right in holding that
the suit was not maintainable, as this Court on its original side lacks
jurisdiction. The jurisdiction exclusively lies with the Board. At the same
time, contentions of the Plaintiff that it has a vested right or a statutory
right for a compulsory license cannot be accepted. It has a right to apply for
a license under Section 31(l)(b) and in a given case, right to broadcast
culminates only after such a license is granted. In a way, it is a contractual
right regulated by a statutory authority and by entertaining the suit for the
relief prayed for, undoubtedly, the provisions of Chapter IX, XI and XIII and
other relevant provisions of the Act would be frustrated. The contentions that
the Defendant has been dictating terms or it cannot be allowed to dictate the
terms and therefore, the law must step in to the rescue of the Plaintiff
cannot  ::: Uploaded on - 06/05/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 07/04/2020 14:53:42
::: Nitin 91 / 104 be a ground to entertain the suit and the only remedy
available to the Plaintiff as per the scheme of the Act is to prosecute its
application pending before the Board for a compulsory license. It cannot file
a suit for any interim arrangements pending in such an application and the
Civil Court will have no jurisdiction to entertain such applications. Seeking
such a remedy is to by pass regulatory provisions as well as the penal
provisions as are set out in Chapter XI and XIII of the Act and the Civil
Court cannot have such a jurisdiction to grant something which would frustrate
the provisions of a statute. The observations made by the Apex Court in the
case of Entertainment Network (India) Limited (Supra) and as reproduced herein
above cannot be read as to create a vested right in favour of the Plaintiff or
similarly placed the Applicant / Complainant to claim an interim compulsory
license by filing a suit before the Civil Court. What is not provided by a
Statute which is a complete code of itself, cannot be read in the judgment of
the Supreme Court. The jurisdiction of the Civil Court cannot be allowed to be
invoked to short circuit the statutory process of licensing and therefore, the
Court would lack in its jurisdiction to entertain the suit. In that view of
the matter, the learned trial Judge has stated that the relief prayed in the
suit was innocuous or may be it is innovative. We, therefore, do not find any
fault in the said observations."
105\. It is submitted that the ratio of Music Choice India Pvt. Ltd. v.
Phonographic Performance Ltd. (supra) was that this Court does not have
jurisdiction to grant Compulsory Licence under the Act; this ratio was
followed by the Division Bench of this Court in Radio One Ltd. v. Phonographic
Performance Ltd. reported in  ::: Uploaded on - 06/05/2019 ::: Downloaded on -
07/04/2020 14:53:42 ::: Nitin 92 / 104 2013 4 Mh.L.J. 643. The relevant
excerpt of the judgment in Radio One Ltd. v. Phonographic Performance Ltd.
(supra) is reproduced below:
> "14. The learned Single Judge, in our view, was in error, having correctly
> come to the conclusion that there was a breach on the part of the Defendant
> in complying with the terms of the licence, in directing that subject to a
> deposit of Rs. 11.50 lakhs, the Defendant would be entitled to the benefit
> of the broadcasting of songs from the repertoire of the Plaintiff on the
> terms and conditions as set out in the compulsory licence. Once prima facie
> a breach has been established and the termination follows the breach, it
> would be wholly inappropriate to direct that the Defendant may nonetheless
> continue to broadcast songs from the repertoire of the Plaintiff on the
> terms governing the compulsory licence. The licence was terminable and has
> been terminated for breach.
15\. In Super Cassettes Industries Ltd. (supra), the Supreme Court has held
that even the Copyright Board does not possess the power under Section 31(1)
(b) to grant an interim compulsory licence. The judgment of a Division Bench
of this Court in Music Choice India Private Limited (supra) similarly
emphasises that exclusive jurisdiction to grant a licence is vested with the
Copyright Board. This is a case where the Defendant has prima facie been
guilty of a persistent breach of its obligation under the terms of the
compulsory licence. The operative order of the learned Single Judge in
substance grants a compulsory licence to the Defendant, in a suit instituted
by the Plaintiff, a consequence which ought not to ensue at least on facts as
found by the learned Single Judge. The Plaintiff has made out a strong prima
facie case. The balance of convenience must necessarily  ::: Uploaded on -
06/05/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 07/04/2020 14:53:42 ::: Nitin 93 / 104 weigh in
favour of the Plaintiff since, to allow the Defendant to broadcast songs on
the basis of the terms of the compulsory licence which has been validly
terminated would amount to an infringement of the copyright of the Plaintiff.
Moreover, admittedly the Plaintiff does not command a monopoly in respect of
the entire market. The grant of an injunction may at worst be a matter of
inconvenience but would not result in the closing down of the business of the
Defendant."
It is submitted that the ratio of these judgments apply to the matter at hand
and this Court does not have the jurisdiction to grant a Compulsory License
under the Act. It is further submitted that an order directing the Defendants
to deposit a sum with this Court, thereby permitting Defendants to use the
Plaintif's Repertoire for their commercial activities would tantamount to
grant of a Compulsory License.
106\. In Music Choice India Pvt. Ltd. v. Phonographic Performance Ltd. (supra)
the plaintif therein had filed a suit against the copyright owner i.e. PPL,
praying for an injunction restraining PPL from interfering with the plaintif's
use of the PPL's copyrighted works. In this judgment, the Division Bench of
this Court held that grant of such relief would be nothing short of granting a
Compulsory License which authority is exclusively vested with the Copyright
Board. Accordingly, the Division Bench refused to pass any such order. Another
Division Bench of this Court in Radio One Ltd. v. Phonographic Performance
Ltd. (supra) upheld the ratio of Music Choice India Pvt. Ltd. v. Phonographic
Performance Ltd. (supra). In this  ::: Uploaded on - 06/05/2019 ::: Downloaded
on - 07/04/2020 14:53:42 ::: Nitin 94 / 104 case, the original plaintif in the
matter brought an appeal before the Division Bench, challenging an order of a
Single Judge of this Court which permitted the original defendant therein to
continue broadcasting the plaintif's works upon depositing a sum of Rs.11.5
Lacs with the Court. Relying upon Music Choice India Pvt. Ltd. v. Phonographic
Performance Ltd. (supra) the Division Bench held that the grant of Compulsory
License is in exclusive jurisdiction of the Copyright Board. It was further
observed that the issuance of orders directing a deposit of money and
permitting use of the plaintif's repertoire is in substance a Compulsory
License granted to the defendant in a suit for infringement brought by the
Plaintif.
107\. The ratio in the case of Radio One Ltd. v. Phonographic Performance Ltd.
(supra) and Music Choice India Pvt. Ltd. v. Phonographic Performance Ltd.
(supra) are befittingly applicable to the present matter. Permitting the
Defendants to continue exploiting the Plaintif's Repertoire upon payment of a
deposit in this Court would indeed be like granting a Compulsory License in
favour of the Defendants. The Act empowers the Copyright Board to be the
exclusive authority to grant a Compulsory License. In view thereof, this Court
has no jurisdiction to grant a Compulsory License which is within the
exclusive domain of the Copyright Board. Furthermore, permitting the
Defendants to deposit money whilst permitting it to use the Plaintif's
Repertoire for its commercial  ::: Uploaded on - 06/05/2019 ::: Downloaded on
- 07/04/2020 14:53:42 ::: Nitin 95 / 104 activities would amount to a grant of
a Compulsory License, for which this Court being a Civil Court doesn't have
the jurisdiction.
108\. The Defendants proposition to permit them to broadcast the Plaintif's
Repertoire upon payment of monetary deposit with this Court till such time
that the Royalty for internet broadcasting is fixed by the Appellate Board, is
therefore rejected.
ISSUE F: Whether the Plaintiff is only interested in money and thus injunction
should not be granted?
109\. The Ld. Senior Advocate for the Defendants submitted that the Plaintif
is not entitled to interim injunction against the Defendants, since the
Plaintif has shown that it is interested only in money and that the Plaintif
is not genuinely interested in an injunction against the Defendants; instead
the Plaintif is looking to negotiate a better price for the license; that the
Plaintif was in fact keen to grant the Defendant No.1 a voluntary license to
broadcast / utilize the Plaintif's Repertoire and had also quantified the
licence fee it sought from the Defendant No.1; that deposit of money would
suffice to protect the Plaintif's interest; that all that the Plaintif wants
is money and that this must weigh against the grant of interlocutory relief.
The Defendants relied upon Halsbury Laws of England: 4th edition: Vol. 9(2)
Para 414 fn 4, and Banks v. EMI Songs Limited (Formerly CBS Songs Limited) and
Ors.: (1996) EMLR 452.
::: Uploaded on - 06/05/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 07/04/2020 14:53:42 :::
Nitin 96 / 104
110\. The Ld. Senior Advocate for the Plaintif submitted that the Defendants'
contention is fundamentally flawed and if accepted, then no copyright owner
who wishes to commercially exploit his content can ever get an injunction. He
submitted that the 'comparable strength' principle is the more appropriate
test for assessing the case for interim relief. He submitted that this test
was laid down in S.M. Dyechem Ltd. v. Cadbury (India) Ltd. reported in AIR
2000 SC 2114 to be applied whilst assessing the case for interim injunctive
relief in trademark matters and the same principle was later approved by the
Hon'ble Supreme Court in Cadila Healthcare v. Cadila Pharmaceuticals reported
in AIR 2001 SC 1952. He submitted that like trademarks, copyright is an
analogous specie of intellectual property and therefore, the comparable
strength principle ought to be applied in respect of copyright matters as
well. The relevant excerpt from the judgment in Cadila Healthcare v. Cadila
Pharmaceuticals (supra) relied upon by the Plaintif is reproduced below:
"21. Our attention was drawn to a recent judgment of this Court in S.M.
Dyechem Ltd. Vs. Cadbury (India) Ltd. 2000ECR1(SC) where in a passing off
action, the plaintiff, which was carrying on the business under the mark of
"Piknik", filed a suit for injunction against the defendant which was using
the mark of "Picnic" for some other chocolates sold by it. On the allegation
that the defendant's mark was deceptively similar, the trial court had issued
an injunction which was reversed by the High Court. On appeal, the decision of
the High Court was affirmed. One of the questions, which this Court
considered, was that for grant of temporary injunction, should the Court go by
the  ::: Uploaded on - 06/05/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 07/04/2020 14:53:42 :::
Nitin 97 / 104 principle of prima facie case, apart from balance of
convenience, or comparative strength of the case of either parties or by
finding out if the plaintiff has raised a "tribal issue". While considering
various decisions on the point in issue, this Court rightly concluded at page
591 as follows:
> " therefore, in trade mark matters, it is now necessary to go into the
> question of "comparable strength" of the cases of either party, apart from
> balance of convenience".
111.The Plaintif relied upon the decision in Phonographic Performance Ltd. v.
Maitra reported in 1998 1 WLR 870 which is cited in the extract of Halsbury
(supra) referred to by the Defendants. This decision in Phonographic
Performance Ltd. (supra) was rendered after the decision in Banks (supra) as
also the judgments referred to in the footnotes in Halsbury (supra). In this
case, Phonographic Performance Ltd. had filed a suit for infringement against
the Defendant. While acknowledging that a case for infringement has been made
out, the Single Judge limited the injunction for a period of six months. In
Appeal, the Court of Appeal reversed the Single Judge's decision and granted
injunction in favour of the Plaintif. The Defendant in that case also had
taken a defense that damages would be an adequate remedy which was negated by
the Court of Appeal. The Plaintif relied upon the following paragraphs from
the said judgment:
> "... At the heart of the judge's decision to limit the injunction in time
> was his view that the injunctions obtained by PPL were used as a lever to
> extract licence fees - a practice that he regarded as an abuse. Although PPL
> have,  ::: Uploaded on - 06/05/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 07/04/2020 14:53:42
> ::: Nitin 98 / 104 since the judge first expressed his views, modified the
> letters they write, it remains their objective to make sure that all users
> of their rights pay the appropriate licence fee or stop infringing. The
> purpose of the injunction is to prevent unlicensed use. Inevitably it is an
> incentive to the injuncted person to obtain a licence or, when threatened
> with committal, to pay the fee which he should have paid or stop.
We do not take the same view as the judge. A person who exploits his property
right by licensing is entitled, unless there are special circumstances, to
prevent another from using that property right without his licence and to
refuse to grant a licence save on his terms and conditions as to payment and
use. In a case, such as the present, where the Defendant did not contest the
allegation in the PPL's Statement of Claim, was well aware of PPL's rights and
that he was infringing and shows an intention to continue to infringe, we can
see no reason why the use of an injunction in the normal form to prevent
further infringement could be an abuse. No doubt the consequence is that a
Defendant is forced to pay if he wishes to use the repertoire, but PPL are
entitled to use the rights assigned to them for the purpose of requiring
payment of fees in return for a licence to do what would, in the absence of a
licence, be an infringement of the rights. On the admitted facts of the 1997
cases, there were no grounds for suspending the injunction for 28 days which
the judge said was intended to provide time for negotiation. The admitted
facts were that the Defendant was a person who had, with full knowledge of the
position, disregarded the proprietary rights of PPL. Whether or not the
Defendant would be in a position to pay any damages or costs was not known. To
allow him a further 28 days of infringement (which is also a criminal offence
under s.107(3)(b) of the l988 Act, if the offender knew or  ::: Uploaded on -
06/05/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 07/04/2020 14:53:42 ::: Nitin 99 / 104 had
reason to believe that copyright would be infringed) was, in our view, wrong.
...
... It was suggested by Mr Silverleaf that it might be appropriate in the
circumstances of the cases before us, where licences were available, to refuse
to grant an injunction at all as damages would be an adequate remedy and, if
necessary, to award damages in lieu of an injunction under Section 50 of the
Supreme Court Act. That, it was said, would reflect the position and provide
appropriate relief as PPL's desire was to maximise their return and not to
refuse licences. Such a course would not be sufficient to safeguard what are
the admitted rights of PPL for four reasons. First, upon the admitted facts
the Defendants have an intention to continue to infringe PPL's rights. In
those circumstances an injunction is the appropriate remedy to prevent that
intention being carried out. Second, calculation of the damages for future
infringements of copyright in lieu of the injunction would not be practical,
as it would not be possible to estimate the length of time the infringement
would continue. Damages for infringement of copyright are awarded as
compensation for loss caused by past infringements, but they are rarely an
appropriate remedy for unlicensed future use of copyright. Third, PPL are the
owners of a statutory property right which they are seeking to enforce in the
same way as they have done for many years. When Parliament enacted the 1988
Act it did not give these Defendants permission to perform sound recordings in
public without the need for the copyright owner's licence or, apart from the
right to apply to the Copyright Tribunal, a right to compel the copyright
owner to grant a licence to do the restricted act (and without payment). It
would therefore be surprising, absent special circumstances, if the Court
framed an injunction in terms which would licence a Defendant's activities
when Parliament did not  ::: Uploaded on - 06/05/2019 ::: Downloaded on -
07/04/2020 14:53:42 ::: Nitin 100 / 104 consider it was right to do so.
Fourth, we can see no reason why a Court should have any sympathy with a
Defendant who, as in this case, is aware of PPL's rights and that he is
infringing them and then shows an intention to continue to do so. ..."
112\. The Ld. Senior Advocate for the Plaintif submits that in a previous
matter before this Court in Ram Sampath vs. Rajesh Roshan and Ors. 2009 (40)
PTC 78 (Bom), while granting an injunction the Ld. Single Judge also
considered the choice of the plaintif therein apropos the damages in the
matter. The relevant excerpt from Ram Sampath vs. Rajesh Roshan and Ors.
relied upon by the Plaintif is reproduced below:
> "22. As regards the contention that damages would be an adequate remedy and
> that the defendants were willing to give bank guarantee in the sum of Rs. 25
> lakhs or such other amount as the court thinks fit, I must state that this
> offer is a pittance. The defendant 3 has given the music rights of producing
> the CDs and cassettes to defendant 4 and the minimum amount guaranteed by
> the defendant 4 to the defendant 3 is Rs. 2.5 crores. This amount can go up
> several folds by way of a royalty in the event the music is a hit. In any
> event this offer need not hinder me any further because the plaintiff
> through its counsel has unequivocally rejected the offer."
113\. Admittedly, the parties hereto had attempted to negotiate a license
prior to the present suit. When the Defendants continued to use the Plaintif's
Repertoire even after the negotiations failed, the Plaintif approached this
Court. In view of  ::: Uploaded on - 06/05/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 07/04/2020
14:53:42 ::: Nitin 101 / 104 the above, the Defendants cannot argue that the
Plaintif is interested "only in money" and under that garb continue to use the
Plaintif's Repertoire without paying for the same. In this context, it is
important to note that the Plaintif has not claimed any damages in the present
suit. The Plaintif's action for injunction against a party for infringing upon
its copyrighted work cannot be termed as motivated by money.
114\. I do not accept the Defendants' submission that the facts of
Phonographic Performance Ltd. v. Maitra (supra) is distinguishable from the
case at hand and reliance should not be placed on the same. The Defendants
vide their notice dated 24th November 2017 addressed to the Plaintif invoking
Section 31-D have confirmed their position to use the Plaintif's Repertoire
without obtaining a license from the Plaintif. During the proceedings of the
present matter, they have continued to use the Plaintif's Repertoire without
obtaining a license. I have already observed hereinabove that the Defendants
cannot be permitted by this Court's order to continue using the Plaintif's
Repertoire upon any conditions imposed by this Court, as that would amount to
a Compulsory License which this Court is not authorized to issue. The
Defendants are aware that the Plaintif is the owner of the copyright within
the Plaintif's Repertoire. The Defendants' cessation of their purchase feature
is an acknowledgment of the Plaintif's ownership of copyright within the
Plaintif's Repertoire. I do not see  ::: Uploaded on - 06/05/2019 :::
Downloaded on - 07/04/2020 14:53:42 ::: Nitin 102 / 104 why the Defendants
deserve protection when they are knowingly infringing upon the Plaintif's
copyrights and show every intention of continuing to do so.
115\. The Defendants admittedly are using the Plaintif's Repertoire, the
ownership in the copyright of which is with the Plaintif. I have already
observed that the present suit and Notice of Motion moved by the Plaintif are
not motivated by money. Considering that the Defendants are knowingly
infringing upon the Plaintif's copyrights, grant of temporary injunction
restraining the Defendants is necessary and is the appropriate remedy.
116\. In so far as the balance of convenience is concerned, it is an admitted
position that the Defendants are using the Plaintif's entire repertoire on
their platform. The Defendants currently host nearly 2.6 million sound
recordings of other copyright holders. Thus, an injunction order restraining
the Defendants from using the Plaintif's Repertoire would preclude them from
using 25,000 songs out of 2.6 million songs. The injunction order against the
Defendants shall not bring their business to a standstill or cause irreparable
injury to the Defendants. On the other hand, the Plaintif's entire repertoire
is being widely exploited by the Defendants without payment of any royalty. I
am therefore of the opinion that the balance of convenience is in the favour
of the Plaintif and not the Defendants.
117\. Recently, the music industry has experienced a rise of over the top
service providers such as the present Defendants who seek safe harbour under
Section  ::: Uploaded on - 06/05/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 07/04/2020 14:53:42
::: Nitin 103 / 104 31-D to exploit copyrighted works, through either internet
broadcast or download features, without seeking / obtaining a license from the
owners thereof. In my view, such use of the copyrighted works, through
internet broadcast or download features, without obtaining a license from the
owners of the copyright amounts to usurpation of the exclusive rights of the
owners to commercially rent, sell or communicate to the public their sound
recordings. Apart from the fact that they are not carrying on 'radio' and
'television' broadcasting, even the Defendants' interpretation of the Act and
Rules therewith not only sanctions the exercise of Statutory License under
Section 31-D without any fixation of royalty but also absolves the service
provider of any obligation to approach the Appellate Board to fix the royalty.
This interpretation does not meet the legislative purpose behind enacting
Section 31-D. I have already observed hereinabove, that the expropriatory
nature of Section 31-D cannot be denied. In view of the reasons stated
hereinabove, I am of the opinion that the Defendants cannot invoke a Statutory
License under Section 31-D in respect of their impugned activities.
118\. In view of what has been stated hereinabove, I am of the opinion that
the Plaintif has made out a prima facie case for grant of interim injunction
against the Defendants. The injury or harm which would be caused to the
Plaintif, in case the interim injunction is not granted, is certainly
irreparable. Considering the fact that I have come to a conclusion that in so
far as the download and purchase feature of the Defendants' activities are
concerned the same amount to  ::: Uploaded on - 06/05/2019 ::: Downloaded on -
07/04/2020 14:53:42 ::: Nitin 104 / 104 infringement of the Plaintif's rights
provided in Section 14(1)(e)(ii) of the Act; in so far as the on demand
streaming services of the Defendants are concerned, the same amount to
infringement of the Plaintif's right provided in Section 14(1)
(e)(iii) of the Act; and that the provisions of Section 31-D of the Act are
not applicable to internet broadcasting, it is necessary to grant reliefs in
favour of the Plaintif in terms of prayer clause (a) of both the Notice of
Motions. The present Notice of Motions are therefore allowed.
(S.J. KATHAWALLA, J. )  ::: Uploaded on - 06/05/2019 ::: Downloaded on -
07/04/2020 14:53:42 :::
nature of Section 31-D cannot be denied. In view of the reasons stated
hereinabove, I am of the opinion that the Defendants cannot invoke a Statutory
License under Section 31-D in respect of their impugned activities.
118\. In view of what has been stated hereinabove, I am of the opinion that
the Plaintif has made out a prima facie case for grant of interim injunction
against the Defendants. The injury or harm which would be caused to the
Plaintif, in case the interim injunction is not granted, is certainly
irreparable. Considering the fact that I have come to a conclusion that in so
far as the download and purchase feature of the Defendants' activities are
concerned the same amount to  ::: Uploaded on - 06/05/2019 ::: Downloaded on -
07/04/2020 14:53:42 ::: Nitin 104 / 104 infringement of the Plaintif's rights
provided in Section 14(1)(e)(ii) of the Act; in so far as the on demand
streaming services of the Defendants are concerned, the same amount to
infringement of the Plaintif's right provided in Section 14(1)
(e)(iii) of the Act; and that the provisions of Section 31-D of the Act are
not applicable to internet broadcasting, it is necessary to grant reliefs in
    Mr. Aspi Chinoy, Senior Advocate alongwith Ms. Vanditta Hedge, Ms. Ekta Asrani
    and Ms. Sayli i/b Singh and Singh and Malhotra and Hedge for the Defendant No. 1 in
    COMIP(L) Nl. 114 of 2018
    Dr. B.B. Saraf a/w Ms. Vaditta Hedge, Ms. Ekta Asrani and Ms. Sayli i/b /b Singh and
    Singh and Malhotra and Hedge for the Defendant No. 1 in COMIP(L) Nl. 113 of 2018
                                                  CORAM:   S.J. KATHAWALLA, J.
                                                  DATE:    23rd APRIL, 2019
    JUDGMENT :
SR.NO. PARTICULARS PAGE NOS.
1 EVENTS LEADING TO THE TWO SUITS 6
::: Uploaded on - 06/05/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 07/04/2020 14:53:42 ::: Nitin
2 / 104 2 NATURE OF DEFENDANTS' SERVICES IMPUGNED BY THE  PLAINTIFF 10 3
ISSUES 11 4 ISSUE A  12 WHETHER THE DEFENDANTS ARE INFRINGING UPON THE
PLAINTIFF'S COPYRIGHT WITHIN THE PLAINTIFF'S REPERTOIRE AS PROVIDED FOR IN
SECTION 14(1)(e) OF THE ACT ?
5 ISSUE A (i)  28 WHETHER THE USE OF THE PLAINTIFF'S REPERTOIRE BY THE
DEFENDANTS' CUSTOMERS BE CONSIDERED "FAIR USE" UNDER SECTION 52(1)(a)(i) OF
THE ACT?
6 ISSUE A (ii)  35 WHETHER THE STORAGE OF SOUND RECORDINGS UPON THE
DEFENDANTS' CUSTOMERS' DEVICES CAN BE CONSIDERED TRANSIENT OR INCIDENTAL TO
nature of Section 31-D cannot be denied. In view of the reasons stated
hereinabove, I am of the opinion that the Defendants cannot invoke a Statutory
License under Section 31-D in respect of their impugned activities.
118\. In view of what has been stated hereinabove, I am of the opinion that
the Plaintif has made out a prima facie case for grant of interim injunction
against the Defendants. The injury or harm which would be caused to the
Plaintif, in case the interim injunction is not granted, is certainly
irreparable. Considering the fact that I have come to a conclusion that in so
far as the download and purchase feature of the Defendants' activities are
concerned the same amount to  ::: Uploaded on - 06/05/2019 ::: Downloaded on -
07/04/2020 14:53:42 ::: Nitin 104 / 104 infringement of the Plaintif's rights
provided in Section 14(1)(e)(ii) of the Act; in so far as the on demand
streaming services of the Defendants are concerned, the same amount to
infringement of the Plaintif's right provided in Section 14(1)
(e)(iii) of the Act; and that the provisions of Section 31-D of the Act are
not applicable to internet broadcasting, it is necessary to grant reliefs in
    Mr. Aspi Chinoy, Senior Advocate alongwith Ms. Vanditta Hedge, Ms. Ekta Asrani
    and Ms. Sayli i/b Singh and Singh and Malhotra and Hedge for the Defendant No. 1 in
    COMIP(L) Nl. 114 of 2018
    Dr. B.B. Saraf a/w Ms. Vaditta Hedge, Ms. Ekta Asrani and Ms. Sayli i/b /b Singh and
    Singh and Malhotra and Hedge for the Defendant No. 1 in COMIP(L) Nl. 113 of 2018
                                                  CORAM:   S.J. KATHAWALLA, J.
                                                  DATE:    23rd APRIL, 2019
    JUDGMENT :
SR.NO. PARTICULARS PAGE NOS.
1 EVENTS LEADING TO THE TWO SUITS 6
::: Uploaded on - 06/05/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 07/04/2020 14:53:42 ::: Nitin
2 / 104 2 NATURE OF DEFENDANTS' SERVICES IMPUGNED BY THE  PLAINTIFF 10 3
ISSUES 11 4 ISSUE A  12 WHETHER THE DEFENDANTS ARE INFRINGING UPON THE
PLAINTIFF'S COPYRIGHT WITHIN THE PLAINTIFF'S REPERTOIRE AS PROVIDED FOR IN
SECTION 14(1)(e) OF THE ACT ?
5 ISSUE A (i)  28 WHETHER THE USE OF THE PLAINTIFF'S REPERTOIRE BY THE
DEFENDANTS' CUSTOMERS BE CONSIDERED "FAIR USE" UNDER SECTION 52(1)(a)(i) OF
THE ACT?
6 ISSUE A (ii)  35 WHETHER THE STORAGE OF SOUND RECORDINGS UPON THE
DEFENDANTS' CUSTOMERS' DEVICES CAN BE CONSIDERED TRANSIENT OR INCIDENTAL TO
nature of Section 31-D cannot be denied. In view of the reasons stated
hereinabove, I am of the opinion that the Defendants cannot invoke a Statutory
License under Section 31-D in respect of their impugned activities.
118\. In view of what has been stated hereinabove, I am of the opinion that
the Plaintif has made out a prima facie case for grant of interim injunction
against the Defendants. The injury or harm which would be caused to the
Plaintif, in case the interim injunction is not granted, is certainly
irreparable. Considering the fact that I have come to a conclusion that in so
far as the download and purchase feature of the Defendants' activities are
concerned the same amount to  ::: Uploaded on - 06/05/2019 ::: Downloaded on -
07/04/2020 14:53:42 ::: Nitin 104 / 104 infringement of the Plaintif's rights
provided in Section 14(1)(e)(ii) of the Act; in so far as the on demand
streaming services of the Defendants are concerned, the same amount to
infringement of the Plaintif's right provided in Section 14(1)
(e)(iii) of the Act; and that the provisions of Section 31-D of the Act are
not applicable to internet broadcasting, it is necessary to grant reliefs in
    Mr. Aspi Chinoy, Senior Advocate alongwith Ms. Vanditta Hedge, Ms. Ekta Asrani
    and Ms. Sayli i/b Singh and Singh and Malhotra and Hedge for the Defendant No. 1 in
    COMIP(L) Nl. 114 of 2018
    Dr. B.B. Saraf a/w Ms. Vaditta Hedge, Ms. Ekta Asrani and Ms. Sayli i/b /b Singh and
    Singh and Malhotra and Hedge for the Defendant No. 1 in COMIP(L) Nl. 113 of 2018
                                                  CORAM:   S.J. KATHAWALLA, J.
                                                  DATE:    23rd APRIL, 2019
    JUDGMENT :
SR.NO. PARTICULARS PAGE NOS.
1 EVENTS LEADING TO THE TWO SUITS 6
::: Uploaded on - 06/05/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 07/04/2020 14:53:42 ::: Nitin
2 / 104 2 NATURE OF DEFENDANTS' SERVICES IMPUGNED BY THE  PLAINTIFF 10 3
ISSUES 11 4 ISSUE A  12 WHETHER THE DEFENDANTS ARE INFRINGING UPON THE
PLAINTIFF'S COPYRIGHT WITHIN THE PLAINTIFF'S REPERTOIRE AS PROVIDED FOR IN
SECTION 14(1)(e) OF THE ACT ?
5 ISSUE A (i)  28 WHETHER THE USE OF THE PLAINTIFF'S REPERTOIRE BY THE
DEFENDANTS' CUSTOMERS BE CONSIDERED "FAIR USE" UNDER SECTION 52(1)(a)(i) OF
THE ACT?
6 ISSUE A (ii)  35 WHETHER THE STORAGE OF SOUND RECORDINGS UPON THE
DEFENDANTS' CUSTOMERS' DEVICES CAN BE CONSIDERED TRANSIENT OR INCIDENTAL TO
THE SERVICES PROVIDED BY THE DEFENDANTS, AS PROVIDED IN SECTION 52(1)(a)(b) OF
THE ACT?
7 ISSUE A (iii)  40 WHETHER THE DEFENDANTS CAN INVOKE SECTION  ::: Uploaded on
- 06/05/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 07/04/2020 14:53:42 ::: Nitin 3 / 104 31-D OF
THE ACT TO EXERCISE A STATUTORY LICENSE IN RESPECT OF THEIR DOWNLOAD/PURCHASE
BUSINESS ?
8 ISSUE B 46 WHETHER THE DEFENDANTS CAN INVOKE SECTION 31-D OF THE ACT TO
EXERCISE A STATUTORY LICENSE IN RESPECT OF THE PLAINTIFF'S REPERTOIRE FOR
INTERNET BROADCASTING ?
9 ISSUE C 81 WHETHER RULE 29 OF THE COPYRIGHT RULES, 2013 ("THE RULES") AND
THE THIRD PROVISO THERETO ARE INVALID?
nature of Section 31-D cannot be denied. In view of the reasons stated
hereinabove, I am of the opinion that the Defendants cannot invoke a Statutory
License under Section 31-D in respect of their impugned activities.
118\. In view of what has been stated hereinabove, I am of the opinion that
the Plaintif has made out a prima facie case for grant of interim injunction
against the Defendants. The injury or harm which would be caused to the
Plaintif, in case the interim injunction is not granted, is certainly
irreparable. Considering the fact that I have come to a conclusion that in so
far as the download and purchase feature of the Defendants' activities are
concerned the same amount to  ::: Uploaded on - 06/05/2019 ::: Downloaded on -
07/04/2020 14:53:42 ::: Nitin 104 / 104 infringement of the Plaintif's rights
provided in Section 14(1)(e)(ii) of the Act; in so far as the on demand
streaming services of the Defendants are concerned, the same amount to
infringement of the Plaintif's right provided in Section 14(1)
(e)(iii) of the Act; and that the provisions of Section 31-D of the Act are
not applicable to internet broadcasting, it is necessary to grant reliefs in
    Mr. Aspi Chinoy, Senior Advocate alongwith Ms. Vanditta Hedge, Ms. Ekta Asrani
    and Ms. Sayli i/b Singh and Singh and Malhotra and Hedge for the Defendant No. 1 in
    COMIP(L) Nl. 114 of 2018
    Dr. B.B. Saraf a/w Ms. Vaditta Hedge, Ms. Ekta Asrani and Ms. Sayli i/b /b Singh and
    Singh and Malhotra and Hedge for the Defendant No. 1 in COMIP(L) Nl. 113 of 2018
                                                  CORAM:   S.J. KATHAWALLA, J.
                                                  DATE:    23rd APRIL, 2019
    JUDGMENT :
SR.NO. PARTICULARS PAGE NOS.
1 EVENTS LEADING TO THE TWO SUITS 6
::: Uploaded on - 06/05/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 07/04/2020 14:53:42 ::: Nitin
2 / 104 2 NATURE OF DEFENDANTS' SERVICES IMPUGNED BY THE  PLAINTIFF 10 3
ISSUES 11 4 ISSUE A  12 WHETHER THE DEFENDANTS ARE INFRINGING UPON THE
PLAINTIFF'S COPYRIGHT WITHIN THE PLAINTIFF'S REPERTOIRE AS PROVIDED FOR IN
SECTION 14(1)(e) OF THE ACT ?
5 ISSUE A (i)  28 WHETHER THE USE OF THE PLAINTIFF'S REPERTOIRE BY THE
DEFENDANTS' CUSTOMERS BE CONSIDERED "FAIR USE" UNDER SECTION 52(1)(a)(i) OF
THE ACT?
6 ISSUE A (ii)  35 WHETHER THE STORAGE OF SOUND RECORDINGS UPON THE
DEFENDANTS' CUSTOMERS' DEVICES CAN BE CONSIDERED TRANSIENT OR INCIDENTAL TO
THE SERVICES PROVIDED BY THE DEFENDANTS, AS PROVIDED IN SECTION 52(1)(a)(b) OF
THE ACT?
7 ISSUE A (iii)  40 WHETHER THE DEFENDANTS CAN INVOKE SECTION  ::: Uploaded on
- 06/05/2019 ::: Downloaded on - 07/04/2020 14:53:42 ::: Nitin 3 / 104 31-D OF
THE ACT TO EXERCISE A STATUTORY LICENSE IN RESPECT OF THEIR DOWNLOAD/PURCHASE
BUSINESS ?
8 ISSUE B 46 WHETHER THE DEFENDANTS CAN INVOKE SECTION 31-D OF THE ACT TO
EXERCISE A STATUTORY LICENSE IN RESPECT OF THE PLAINTIFF'S REPERTOIRE FOR
INTERNET BROADCASTING ?
9 ISSUE C 81 WHETHER RULE 29 OF THE COPYRIGHT RULES, 2013 ("THE RULES") AND
THE THIRD PROVISO THERETO ARE INVALID?
nature of Section 31-D cannot be denied. In view of the reasons stated
hereinabove, I am of the opinion that the Defendants cannot invoke a Statutory
License under Section 31-D in respect of their impugned activities.
118\. In view of what has been stated hereinabove, I am of the opinion that
the Plaintif has made out a prima facie case for grant of interim injunction
against the Defendants. The injury or harm which would be caused to the
Plaintif, in case the interim injunction is not granted, is certainly
irreparable. Considering the fact that I have come to a conclusion that in so
far as the download and purchase feature of the Defendants' activities are
concerned the same amount to  ::: Uploaded on - 06/05/2019 ::: Downloaded on -
07/04/2020 14:53:42 ::: Nitin 104 / 104 infringement of the Plaintif's rights
provided in Section 14(1)(e)(ii) of the Act; in so far as the on demand
streaming services of the Defendants are concerned, the same amount to
infringement of the Plaintif's right provided in Section 14(1)
(e)(iii) of the Act; and that the provisions of Section 31-D of the Act are
not applicable to internet broadcasting, it is necessary to grant reliefs in
