Bombay High Court
Prof. Bandu Baburao Meshram vs Chairman on 11 May, 2012
Bench: A.M. Khanwilkar, S. S. Shinde
    vss
                                                                                       96612
                  IN THE HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE AT BOMBAY
                        ORDINARY ORIGINAL JURISDICTION
                             WRIT PETITION NO. 966 OF 2012
          1. Prof. Bandu Baburao Meshram,
          Residing at H82/2, Mangaldeep Co-op. Housing Society,
          Sector 14, Airoli 400 708
          2. Prof. Abhay Bambole,
          Residing at Academic Staff Quarters,
          ICT (UDCT) Campus, R.A. Kidwai Road, Matunga (East),
          Mumbai 400 019                                       ...Petitioners
                      V/s.
          1. Chairman, Board of Governors,
          Veermata Jijabai Technological Institute,
          H.R. Mahajan Marg, Matunga (East),
          Mumbai 400 019
42\. As a result, this petition fails. The same deserves to be dismissed.
43\. Accordingly, this petition is dismissed. The Ad-interim relief granted on
26th April, 2012 is vacated, forthwith.
44\. At this stage, the Counsel for the Petitioners, submits that the
petitioners may consider of filing appeal against this decision for which
reason the ad-interim relief be continued for some time.
53 of 54  ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:36:37 ::: 96612 This prayer is
opposed by the Counsel for Respondent No.1.
We have already noticed the urgency, and because of which, we took up this
petition for immediate hearing, without insisting on technicalities of
amendment of the petition. Grant of any interim relief would result in
prolonging the process of appointment of the selected candidate which cannot
brook delay because of resignation tendered by the present incumbent as back
as on 13 th January, 2012 and moreso, because, the admissions to the courses
conducted by the Respondent College for the new academic year would commence
from June, 2012. Accordingly, prayer for continuation of interim relief is
          Mumbai 400 019
          2. University of Mumbai,
          through the Registrar,
          Mumbai 400 032
          3. State of Maharashtra,
          through the Secretary,
          Department of Higher and Technical Education,
          Mantralaya, Mumbai 400 032.                                  ...Respondents
          Mr. Susheel Mahadeshwar i/b Mrs. Ranjana Todankar for the Petitioners
          Mr. D.J. Khambatta, Advocate General, a/w Mr. A.M. Kulkarni for Resp.
          Nos.1 & 2
          Mrs. Anjali Helekar, AGP, for the Respondent No.3
                                                                                    1 of 54
                                                          ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:36:36 :::
                                                                                    96612
                                       CORAM: A.M. KHANWILKAR &
                                              S.S. SHINDE, JJ.
DATE: MAY 11, 2012 JUDGMENT (Per A.M. Khanwilkar, J.):-
1\. Rule. Counsel appearing for the respective respondents waive notice. By
consent, Rule made returnable forthwith and heard finally.
2\. The petitioners, by this writ petition under Article 226 of the
Constitution of India, have prayed for order or direction restraining
Respondent No.1 from holding the selection process for the post of Director by
excluding them in the said selection process.
3\. The petitioners are employed as professors in the respondent Veermata
Jijabai Technological Institute. Respondent No.1 Institute is a premier
Engineering College in the State of Maharashtra. The Institute is affiliated
to the University of Mumbai.
It has been conferred autonomous status for a period from 2011-2012 to
2016-2017 in accordance with the provisions contained in the Statutes 593 to
642 regarding grant of autonomous status to 2 of 54  ::: Downloaded on -
09/06/2013 18:36:36 ::: 96612 Affiliated College / Recognised Institution /
University Department / University Institution. This is reinforced from the
communication dated 20th August, 2011 issued under the signature of In-Charge
Registrar of University of Mumbai bearing No.Aff./Recog.-I/2889 of 2011\.
Respondent No.1 Institute is a fully aided institution by the State
Government.
4\. An advertisement was issued on 29 th March, 2012 by Respondent No.1
inviting applications for the post of Director of the Respondent Institute.
The post of Director is equivalent to the post of Principal. According to the
petitioners, they possessed the requisite qualifications and therefore,
applied for the said post on 9 th April, 2012 and 13th April, 2012
respectively. However, by the end of April, 2012, the petitioners realised
that their colleagues have received call letters for the selection process for
the said post of Director. Therefore, they made enquiries and were told by the
Director of Respondent No.1 Institute that they may not have achieved the
benchmark specified by the Selection Committee.
The petitioners have immediately rushed to this court on 25 th April, 2012\.
3 of 54  ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:36:36 ::: 96612
5\. This petition has been filed on the assertion that in view of the
Directions issued by the Vice-Chancellor bearing No.CONCOL.VCD/53 of 1993,
titled as Directions Governing Terms and Conditions of Service of teachers
appointed in the non-
government constituent colleges and affiliated colleges of the University of
Mumbai, the Selection Committee was obliged to interview and adjudge the
merits of each candidate in accordance with the qualifications prescribed in
the advertisement issued by the Institute. It is then stated that the
advertisement does not mention that the candidates will be graded and
eliminated even before the selection process. Further, no one has been
informed about the basis of the elimination before the selection process.
According to the petitioners, since they possessed requisite qualifications
prescribed in the advertisement, the decision of the Selection Committee to
exclude the petitioners from consideration during the selection process, was
completely illegal being contrary to the directions of the Vice-Chancellor
referred to above and that decision is hit by the Articles 14 and 16 of the
Constitution of India.
4 of 54  ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:36:36 ::: 96612 On this limited
ground, the petitioners have approached this court and have prayed for
directions against Respondent No.1 to refrain from holding the selection
process for the post of Director by excluding the petitioners therefrom.
6\. The petitioners got the matter produced before us on 26 th April, 2012
after giving notice to the Counsel for the Respondent -
Institute. As the matter was notified for 2 nd May, 2012, the Court ordered
that the respondents may continue with the selection process but no
appointment letter be issued in favour of any participating candidate till
further orders to be passed by the court. The respondents thereafter have
filed reply affidavit to oppose this writ petition, and more particularly, to
rebut the singular ground on which the relief was founded. The respondents
have refuted the stand of the petitioners, and in particular, that the
Institute has violated the provisions of statutes applicable to autonomous
institutes.
According to the respondents, statute 642 of the Statutes 593 to 642 regarding
grant of autonomous status to Affiliated College / Recognised Institution /
University Department / University 5 of 54  ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013
18:36:36 ::: 96612 Institution passed by the Senate at its special meeting
held on 4 th December, 2001 (hereinafter referred to as the said statutes) is
attracted. The same reads thus:
> "642. 1. The recruitment of the teaching faculty and their qualifications,
> reservation rules and service conditions of the teaching faculty shall be as
> per the Statutes prepared by the University, from time to time.
> 2\. The service conditions, qualifications, recruitment rules and
> reservation rules for the appointment of the non-teaching employees shall be
> as per the Standard Code (Terms and Conditions of Service) prescribed by the
> Govt. from time to time."
7\. According to the respondents, detailed procedure regarding selection
process is not prescribed in this statute. Further, no statute has been framed
by the University providing for detailed selection process thus far, which
fact is admitted by the petitioners in para 8 of the petition. It is on that
premise, the petitioners have asserted that the abovesaid directions of the
Vice-Chancellor of University of Mumbai would be attracted as it provides for
detailed procedure regarding selection process to be followed.
6 of 54  ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:36:36 ::: 96612
8\. The respondents contend that the circular dated 10 th February, 2012 is
only a follow-up action after application of revised pay-scales under AICTE
guidelines and does not constitute statutory directions to the autonomous
institutes. The Government of Maharashtra has issued general guidelines for
recruitment vide G.R.
dated 1st March, 2008 and the steps taken by the Selection Committee were in
consonance with the said guidelines. The said G.R. provides for organisational
structure of faculty in the autonomous institutes. It also provides for
qualifications, experience and other requirements to be fulfilled by the
candidates seeking appointment for the post of Director. In that, an eminent
person with academic and administrative experience of high calibre having
qualifications and experience is most important consideration for appointing a
particular candidate on the post of Director.
The advertisement in question was issued / published calling for the
applications for the post of Director prescribing minimum qualifications and
experience, which, was higher than the benchmark specified by the AICTE. The
respondents rely on the said G.R. to contend that it provides for mode and
manner of the appointment to 7 of 54  ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:36:36
::: 96612 the post of Director. The process involves publication of
advertisement, short listing of promising candidates by the Selection
Committee, invitation to such promising candidates for discussion,
recommendation of the suitable candidate to Board of Governors.
The procedure stated under the G.R. specifically provides for discussion with
the candidates to be appointed for the post of Director, unlike interview in
the case of appointment of all other faculty members of the Institute.
Further, it also provides for short listing of the promising candidates by the
Selection Committee before the discussion. Accordingly, after the
advertisement in question was published on 29th March, 2012 in the newspapers
and on the official website of the Institute on 20 th March, 2012, the
Selection Committee received in all 20 applications. Keeping in mind the
purport of the Government Resolution, the Selection Committee short listed the
candidates in which the petitioners were considered as not suitable. The
affidavit then proceeds to explain the benchmark kept in mind by the Selection
Committee for elimination of the candidates. In para 9 of the affidavit dated
4 th May, 2012 sworn by the Hasit Joshipura, member of the Board of Governors
of 8 of 54  ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:36:36 ::: 96612 the Institute,
it is said thus:
> "9. ... While short listing the candidates, the Selection Committee has
> taken into consideration various aspects related to each candidate
> independently as required by the aforesaid Government Resolution as well as
> the advertisement like academic qualifications, teaching/research/
> industrial as well as administrative experience, Ph.D. Or equivalent works,
> academic record, good publications record in referred
> scientific/professional journals, post Ph.D. Research experience,
> academic/research leadership and good knowledge of technical education
> system in the country and its development. After considering all the pros
> and cons of each candidate, his qualifications, experience, etc., the
> Selection Committee has short listed in all 10 candidates, who were to be
> invited for discussion. I say that in the process of short listing the
> selection committee found that the Petitioners were not amongst those of the
> highest merits and therefore they were not called for the personal
> discussion".
9\. We have reproduced this portion of the reply as during the course of
arguments, the action of Selection Committee was questioned on that basis. The
respondents have thus asserted that merely because the petitioners fulfilled
the requisite qualifications for the post of Director, they were not required
to be called for the selection process unless they also fulfilled the
benchmark regarding the experience specified by the Selection Committee. The
respondents further submit that the petition is completely ill-advised as it
is founded on the sole ground that the Selection Committee has 9 of 54  :::
Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:36:36 ::: 96612 failed to adhere to the norms
specified in the directions issued by the Vice-Chancellor of the University,
which contention completely overlooks the fact that the said directions have
no application to the autonomous colleges though the college may be an
affiliated college with the University of Mumbai. It was also urged on behalf
of the respondents at the time of arguments that the petitioner No.2 does not
possess the desirable qualifications mentioned in the advertisement and even
for that reason was not eligible.
Accordingly, it is prayed that the petition be dismissed being devoid of
merits.
10\. The petitioners have filed rejoinder affidavit reiterating the stand
taken in the writ petition. In the rejoinder affidavit, it is brought on
record that the Institute did not rely on the G.R. dated 1 st March, 2008
during the selection process to appoint the petitioners on the post of
professors in May, 2011. That selection process was in adherence to the norms
specified in the directions issued by the Vice-
Chancellor referred to above. It is also stated that even other two autonomous
colleges including Sardar Patel College of Engineering 10 of 54  :::
Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:36:36 ::: 96612 and affiliated to University of
Mumbai have followed the procedure specified in the direction issued by the
Vice-Chancellor of the University. Accordingly, it is submitted that the
respondent-Institute was obliged to comply with the directions issued by the
Vice-Chancellor referred to above. In the concluding paragraph of the
rejoinder affidavit, the petitioners have asserted that the G.R.
dated 1st March, 2008 is illegal and arbitrary and violative of Articles 14
and 16 of the Constitution of India and further that the petitioners may be
permitted to amend the petition in order to challenge the said G.R.
11\. However, when the matter was argued before the Court, the Counsel for the
petitioners taking clue from the stand taken in the reply affidavit of the
Institute and the submission of the Counsel for the respondents across the
Bar, urged further and new grounds which have neither been articulated in the
memo of petition or, for that matter, rejoinder affidavit. It was submitted
that the Selection Committee was not properly constituted. Once again, to
buttress this argument, reliance was placed on the directions of 1993 issued
by 11 of 54  ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:36:36 ::: 96612 the Vice-
Chancellor (for short, 'Vice-Chancellor's directions'). He contended that the
Vice-Chancellor was authorised to issue such directions; and the directions so
issued were binding on the respondent institute even after grant of autonomous
status as it continues to be affiliated college with the University. Every
affiliated college is obliged to comply with the directions issued by the
Vice-Chancellor. According to the petitioners, the State Government has no
authority whatsoever to issue any directions to the respondent institute in
relation to the matters of qualification, experience or regarding the
selection procedure for the post of Director/Principal. It was next contended
that the selection procedure was not in conformity with the directions issued
by the Vice-Chancellor of 1993. The said direction do not provide for short
listing or elimination of candidates. It also does not authorise the Selection
Committee to determine any benchmark for resorting to elimination of
candidates. It was also urged that the G.R. dated 1 st March, 2008 pressed
into service by the respondents was illegal and ultra vires. For, the State
Government does not have power to issue directions to provide for
qualifications and experience much less 12 of 54  ::: Downloaded on -
09/06/2013 18:36:36 ::: 96612 inconsistent with the norms specified by the
University and, in particular, AICTE. In substance, the procedure followed by
the Selection Committee was questioned being inconsistent with the Vice-
Chancellor's directions. Inasmuch as, it does not provide for short listing of
candidates at all. Moreover, even the advertisement in question does not refer
to short listing of candidates. It was also argued that the respondent
Institute cannot be permitted to rely on the AICTE guidelines as is mentioned
in the advertisement and at the same time, rely on the directions issued by
the State Government contained in G.R. dated 1st March, 2008 to justify the
constitution of Selection Committee and of elimination of candidates by the
Selection Committee. It was also contended that since the number of applicants
were only 20, by no stretch of imagination, it can be said to be absurd or
unmanageable number for conducting interview or discussion with each of them
by the Selection Committee, necessitating elimination of some of them or short
listing to prune the list of candidates. Moreover, no criterion for short
listing has been specified either in the advertisement or the directions
issued by the Vice-Chancellor, as the case may be, therefore, the Selection 13
of 54  ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:36:36 ::: 96612 Committee could not
have resorted to short listing.
12\. It was then contended that the criterion for elimination of candidates is
not notified nor made known to the petitioners.
According to the petitioners, the criterion adopted by the Selection Committee
for elimination of candidates lacked objectivity. This argument is canvassed
relying on averments contained in para 9 of the reply affidavit filed on
behalf of Respondent No.1. He has relied on the decision of the Apex Court in
the case of B. Ramakichenin @ Bala Gandhi vs. Union of India, (2008) 1 SCC
362. He contends that as the directions issued by the Vice-Chancellor do not
provide for short listing of candidates, it was not open to the Selection
Committee to resort to that procedure. He submitted that the petitioner No.1
possesses the requisite qualification as well as desirable qualification and,
therefore, was eligible candidate and had right to participate in the
selection process. As regards Petitioner No.2, he possessed requisite
qualification. Although he did not have desirable qualification, he was still
eligible candidate and had right to participate in the selection process.
14 of 54  ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:36:36 ::: 96612
13\. At the end of the arguments, the Petitioners relied on the Rules
regarding the Selection Committee, selection procedure and eligibility
criteria of the qualifications notified alongwith the circular issued by the
In-Charge Registrar of the University of Mumbai bearing No.CONCOL/IEC/04 of
2012 which is at exhibit 1 to the reply affidavit filed by Respondent No.3.
Besides, the Counsel for the petitioners handed in draft amendment to the writ
petition in support of his additional grounds argued by him. By consent of
parties, the said draft amendment handed in to the Court was treated as having
been granted and the matter proceeded for arguments on the basis of denial.
The formality of carrying out amendment in the petition and thereafter hearing
the matter would have delayed the hearing of the petition. Therefore, the
Counsel for the parties agreed for the said arrangement, more particularly,
considering the fact that the present incumbent Director has already tendered
his resignation on 13th January, 2012 and on expiry of three months therefrom,
he was required to be relieved. But, the Board of Respondent No.1 institute
requested him to continue until a new candidate is selected 15 of 54  :::
Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:36:36 ::: 96612 and appointed on the said post.
Moreover, the admissions to new academic year would commence in June, 2012.
14\. In the draft amendment, the first ground urged is that the G.R. dated 1st
March, 2008 is illegal and without authority of law.
The next ground is that the State of Maharashtra has no authority to lay down
staff qualifications in engineering colleges and has arbitrarily laid down
qualifications for the staff which are different from the qualifications laid
down by the AICTE. The next ground is that the Respondent Institute was fully
aware that it is necessary to follow the staff qualifications laid down by the
AICTE and the G.R.
Dated 1st March, 2008 is illegal for which reason in the advertisement in
question the qualification referred to is the one laid down by AICTE. The next
ground is that in view of the provisions of the Maharashtra Universities Act,
1994 and Statute 642, the Government of Maharashtra does not have power to lay
down recruitment rules or the selection procedure for the post of Director or
other faculty. The next ground is that the G.R. Dated 1 st March, 2008 is not
applicable to the selection of Director in the 16 of 54  ::: Downloaded on -
09/06/2013 18:36:36 ::: 96612 respondent Institute. It does not lay down any
guidelines for short listing or selection of candidates. Further, there is no
rationale and objective basis for short listing of candidates and the short
listing is arbitrary and violative of Articles 14 and 16 of the Constitution
of India. By this amendment, the petitioners propose to ask for further
reliefs which read thus:
> (a1) That this Hon'ble court may be pleased to quash and set aside the
> Government Resolution dated 01.03.2008 (Exhibit D to the Petition);
> (a2) That this Hon'ble court may be pleased to declare that the manner and
> mode of selection and appointment of Director in the Respondent Institute is
> governed by Vice-Chancellor's Directions No.CONCOL.VCD/53 of 1993.
> (a3) That this Hon'ble court may be pleased to declare that the selection of
> the Director of the Respondent Institute pursuant to the Government
> Resolution dated 01.03.2008 is a nullity in the eye of law.
15\. The learned Advocate General appearing for the respondent Institute
contended that the directions issued by the Vice-
Chancellor have no application and are not binding on the autonomous colleges.
The autonomous colleges by virtue of their 17 of 54  ::: Downloaded on -
09/06/2013 18:36:36 ::: 96612 status are governed only by the provisions of
the Act and statutes passed by the Senate. As, admittedly, there was no
express provision in the Act or in the Statutes passed by the Senate regarding
the selection procedure for appointment of Director, the respondent institute
was obliged to rely on the directions issued by the State Government contained
in the G.R. dated 1 st March, 2008 as the respondent Institute is 100% aided
college. He contends that the Selection Committee constituted is in conformity
with the guidelines specified in the directions issued by the State Government
vide G.R.
dated 1st March, 2008. The selection procedure suggested in the concerned
Government Resolutions has been fully complied with and there is no challenge
in that behalf. Besides, the qualification and experience specified in the
advertisement in question is in conformity with the norm specified by the
AICTE. Accordingly, there was no irregularity whatsoever committed either in
the constitution of the Selection Committee or the procedure adopted by the
said committee. With regard to the question of short listing of candidates, in
his submission, the judgement of the apex Court relied on by the petitioners
is complete answer to his argument.
18 of 54  ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:36:36 ::: 96612 It predicates that
irrespective of the fact that the advertisement or the Rules do not provide
for elimination, there is implicit authority in the Selection Committee to
prune down or short list the number of candidates. He submits that the
Selection Committee has to keep in mind that the best candidates among the
applicants for the post in question are considered. As regards the post of
Director, it is not a case of interview but discussion. While doing so, the
Selection Committee cannot be casual and superficial in spite of the time
constraints. At the same time, the Selection Committee has adopted a rationale
and objective basis so that personality and merit of the persons could be
reckoned; and only those persons were called for interview for proper
assessment and evaluation. To buttress this submission, he placed reliance on
the dictum of the Division Bench judgment of this Court in the case of MPSC
vs. Shri Kisan Tukaram More & Ors., in Writ Petition No. 8883 of 2009 decided
on 21st April, 2010. He also produced the original record pertaining to the
selection process in question. From the said record, it is noticed that the
Board of Governors of respondent Institute in its meeting held on 9th March,
2012 decided to constitute a Selection Committee 19 of 54  ::: Downloaded on -
09/06/2013 18:36:36 ::: 96612 consisting of the following members for the
appointment of a new Director :
> (i) Mr.Nusli N.Wadia, Chairman - Board of Governors
> (ii) Secretary, Higher and Technical Education
> (iii) Professor Devang Khakhar
> (iv) Dr.Anil Kakodkar
> (v) Hasit Joshipura
> (vi) Dr.S.K. Mahajan The record also indicates that the Search Committee met
> on 17 th April, 2012. The meeting was convened to short list the applicants
> for interview. It was attended by Dr.S.K. Mahajan, DTE, Dr.Abhay Wagh -
> nominee of Secretary (T & H.Edu) and Mr.Girish Advani-
nominee of Chairman, BoG. The members noted that 20 applications have been
received. They decided to allot marks to each of the applicants. The salient
features of the marks allotted within each heading were as follows:
• 10 marks for guiding 3 Ph.D students till defence or proportion therefor.
20 of 54  ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:36:36 ::: 96612 • one mark each
for one M.Tech student guided.
• one mark each for one consultancy project.
• two marks for one publication in a reputed refereed Journal.
• one mark each for one year completion as professor.
• 10 marks for 3 sponsored R & D project or proportion thereof.
16\. After carrying out this exercise, it was decided that the candidates who
have secured above 70 marks should be invited for interview. These minutes
support and clarify the stand taken by Respondent No.1 in paragraph 9 of the
affidavit of Hasit Joshipura, Member of Board of Governors of the Institute
dated 4 th May, 2012, which has been extracted hereinbefore. On the basis of
this record, it was contended by the learned Advocate General that the
argument of the petitioners that the norm specified for elimination of
candidates lacks objectivity is devoid of merits. He submitted that in fact
the said ground is totally vague.
17\. In the context of the position emerging from the said original record, we
posed question to the learned Advocate General 21 of 54  ::: Downloaded on -
09/06/2013 18:36:36 ::: 96612 as to how persons other than nominated as
members of the Selection Committee could have specified the benchmark for
short listing of candidates and whether the decision so taken on 17 th April,
2012 has in fact been approved or ratified by the members of the Selection
Committee. In response, further affidavit has been filed by Respondent No.1
sworn by Devang Khakhar, Director of IIT, Mumbai dated 9th May, 2012, in his
capacity as Member of the Selection Committee constituted by the Board of
Governors in meeting dated 3rd March, 2012. He has stated that on 26th April,
2012, in the meeting of Selection Committee, all the 6 committee members were
present. The minutes of the meeting of the Search Committee dated 17th April,
2012 alongwith tabular chart of the candidates who had applied for the post of
Director, chart of short listed candidates were produced before the Selection
Committee. All the members of the Selection Committee perused the minutes of
the meeting dated 17th April, 2012 and also verified the process as well as
the norms applied by the Search Committee for short listing the candidates in
the said meeting. After satisfying about the correctness of the short listing,
they approved and ratified both, the norms and 22 of 54  ::: Downloaded on -
09/06/2013 18:36:36 ::: 96612 the process of short listing of candidates. In
other words, this affidavit answers the query posed by the Court. In that, the
meeting held on 17th April, 2012 was of the Search Committee appointed to
assist the Selection Committee in the scrutiny of the candidates. The said
Search Committee suggested norms for short listing of the candidates. On the
basis of that norm, they proceeded to evaluate the case of each of the
applicants and forwarded its recommendation to the Selection Committee. It is
the Selection Committee constituted by the Board of Governors of Respondent
No.1, vide Resolution dated 9th May, 2012, finally pondered over the norms
recommended by the Search Committee and approved and ratified the same. The
Selection Committee also approved and ratified the summary-sheet prepared by
the Search Committee containing the assessment and marks obtained by each
candidate. Thus, the final decision has been taken by the Selection Committee
of inviting only those candidates who had secured above 70 marks, for
interview and discussion.
Indeed, the Counsel for the respondents has criticised the decision of the
Selection Committee by relying on the exposition of the Apex Court in the case
of State of Andhra Pradesh vs. 23 of 54  ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013
18:36:36 ::: 96612 Dr. Manjeet Singh & Anr., 1988 (Supp.) SCC 562.
18\. Reverting to the arguments of the learned Advocate General, he submits
that there is no infirmity in the constitution of the Selection Committee or
about the decision taken by it to short list the candidates on the basis of
the norms which were objective and just for pruning down the list of
candidates to make the selection process more meaningful and effective. He,
therefore, submits that the petition deserves to be dismissed.
19\. The foremost question that needs to be addressed by us is: Whether the
directions issued by the Vice Chancellor were binding on the respondent-
institute? If this question is to be answered in favour of the petitioners,
then, it would necessarily follow that the constitution of the Selection
Committee is vitiated, and for the same reason, all steps taken by the
Selection Committee or Search Committee working under it would be of no
consequence and will have to be treated as non-est in the eye of law. This
question will have to be answered keeping in mind that the 24 of 54  :::
Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:36:36 ::: 96612 University of Mumbai has granted
autonomous status to the respondent-institute, as noted in the communication
dated 20 th August, 2011 for a period from 2011-2012 to 2016-2017. Besides,
the respondent-institute is fully aided by the State Government. By virtue of
grant of autonomous status to the respondent-institute, Statutes No. 593 to
642 have become applicable to the respondent-institute. The same pertain to
grant of autonomous status of affiliated college / recognised institution /
University institution, passed by the Senate at its Special Meeting held on 4
th December, 2001\. By virtue of Statute 642, the recruitment of the teaching
faculty and their qualifications, reservations, rules and service conditions
of the teaching faculty shall be as per the Statutes prepared by the
University, from time to time. That Statute further predicates that the
service conditions, qualifications, recruitment rules and reservation rules
for the appointment of the non-teaching employees shall be as per the standard
Code (Terms and conditions of service) "prescribed by the Government", from
time to time.
20\. We may now revert to the definitions of "autonomy" and 25 of 54  :::
Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:36:36 ::: 96612 "autonomous college" as
contained in Section 2(5) and (6) of the Maharashtra Universities Act, 1994.
The same read thus:-
> "2(5) Autonomy means a privilege of the university conferred by the statutes
> to permit a college, institution or a university department to conduct
> academic programmes and examinations, develop syllabus for the respective
> subjects and issue certificates of passing the examinations, etc. A college,
> institution or a university department which has been granted autonomy shall
> have full academic administrative and financial autonomy subject to the
> provisions of the Act and Statutes;
> 2(6) "autonomous college:, "autonomous institution" or autonomous
> department" means a college, institution or department to which autonomy is
> granted and is designated to be so by the Statutes;
21\. On a bare perusal of these provisions, it is obvious that the privileges
of the University conferred by the Statutes referred to therein are bestowed
on the concerned college, which is granted autonomous status. The privileges
referred to are to conduct academic programmes and examinations, develop
syllabus for the respective subjects, issue certificate of passing of the
examinations, etc. On grant of such autonomous status, the concerned college
gets full academic, administrative and financial autonomy, subject to the
provisions of the Act and Statutes. In other words, by the very nature of
being autonomous college, such college acquires "full" academic, 26 of 54  :::
Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:36:36 ::: 96612 administrative and financial
autonomy, which is the hallmark of complete autonomy and independence. Such
autonomous college cannot be governed by the restrictive norms specified in
respect of other colleges affiliated to the University. Indeed, the autonomous
college would continue to be an affiliated college of the University, but, in
law, is bestowed full academic, administrative and financial autonomy, which
can be regulated, subject to the provisions of the Act of 1994 or the Statutes
made thereunder. The Statutes are made by the Senate of the University, which
consists of members mentioned in Section 25(2) of the Act. The Senate is the
principal authority for all financial estimates and budgetary appropriations
and for providing social feedback to the University on current and future
academic programmes. Section 89 of the Act of 1994, in particular sub-sections
(2) and (3) thereof, is useful. The same reads thus:-
> "89(2) The autonomous university department or institution or college or
> recognised institution, may constitute its authorities or bodies and
> exercise the powers and perform the functions and carry out the
> administrative, academic, financial and other activities of the university,
> as prescribed.
89(3) The autonomous university department or institution or college or
recognised institution may prescribe its own courses of study, evolve its own
teaching methods and hold examinations and test for students receiving
instruction in it and award degrees or certificates of its own. Autonomous
university department or institution or college or recognised 27 of 54  :::
Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:36:36 ::: 96612 institution shall function with
the objectives of promoting academic freedom and scholarship on the part of
teachers and students which are essential to the fostering and development of
and intellectual climate conducive to the pursuit of scholarship and
excellence." (emphasis supplied) This provision re-states the position that,
on grant of autonomous status to any college, such college is authorised to
exercise the powers and perform the functions and carry out the
administrative, academic, financial and other activities "of the University",
as prescribed.
Further, it can prescribe its own course of study, evolve its own teaching
methods and hold examinations and tests for students receiving instructions in
it and award degrees and certificates on its own. It has to function with the
objectives of promoting academic freedom and scholarship on the part of
teachers and students which are essential to the fostering and development of
an intellectual climate conducive to the pursuit of scholarship and
excellence. On conjoint reading of the abovesaid provisions, it is obvious
that the autonomous college enjoys privileges far higher than an ordinary
affiliated college, even though it continues to be an affiliated college under
the same University. The autonomous college has full academic and
administrative autonomy, which can be regulated only by the 28 of 54  :::
Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:36:36 ::: 96612 provisions of the Act and
Statutes, and in no other manner. The autonomous college is accountable to the
University and is governed only by the express provisions of the Act and the
Statutes made by the Senate of the University.
22\. Notably, an autonomous college can exercise the stated privileges of the
University. No doubt, the Vice Chancellor of the University is the principal
academic and executive officer of the University responsible for the
development of academic programmes and general administration of the
University to ensure efficiency and good order of the University. But that
does not mean that the academic, administrative and financial autonomy of the
autonomous colleges can be interfered with by the Vice Chancellor by issuing
directions in respect of matters which are not so provided in the Act and the
Statutes made by the Senate of the University qua the autonomous colleges.
Indisputably, the purport of Section 14 of the Act of 1994 does not authorise
him to do so. Taking any other view would mean that there will be hardly any
qualitative distinction between the autonomous colleges and affiliated
colleges under the 29 of 54  ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:36:36 ::: 96612
same University. The ordinary affiliated colleges are not only bound and
governed by the Act, Statutes, Ordinances or Regulations, but also the
directions issued by the Vice Chancellor in exercise of powers under Section
14(8) of the Act. Pertinently, the directions issued by the Vice Chancellor
under Section 14(8) of the Act are required to be placed before the Management
Council or other authority or body concerned for approval and draft of such of
the Statutes, Ordinances or Regulations, as the case may be, required to be
made in that behalf, is required to be simultaneously placed before such
authority or body for consideration. The fact remains that the directions so
issued cannot assume the status of a Statute. It is translated into Statute
only after the Senate of the University passes it as such. Till the passing of
the Statute by the Senate of the University, the directions of the Vice
Chancellor may have binding effect on the affiliated colleges, but certainly,
not on the autonomous colleges. As aforesaid, the autonomy regarding academic,
administrative and financial matters of the autonomous colleges can be
regulated only by an Act made by Legislature or the Statutes made by the
Senate of the University, and not otherwise. In other words, on and from the
date the college is 30 of 54  ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:36:36 :::
96612 granted status of an autonomous college, even if it continues to remain
an affiliated college of the same University, its academic, administrative and
financial activities or powers can be controlled only by the provisions of the
Act or the Statutes, and not otherwise.
23\. A priori, the fulcrum of the argument, on the basis of which, the
petitioners have challenged the constitution of the Selection Committee or the
procedure followed by it, ought to fail. The directions issued by the Vice
Chancellor were in exercise of power under Section 11(6)(b) of the Bombay
University Act, 1994 [corresponding Section 14(8) of the Maharashtra
Universities Act, 1994]. From the short title of the said directions itself,
it is amply clear that the same are limited to governing the non-Government
constituent colleges and affiliated colleges of the University of Bombay (now
University of Mumbai). The very nature of the title of the directions is
suggestive of the fact that it has had no application to autonomous colleges,
even though the concerned college continues to be an affiliated college under
the same University.
31 of 54  ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:36:36 ::: 96612
24\. The petitioners have placed reliance on Section 81 of the Act of 1994,
under Chapter X. The management applying for affiliation and Management, whose
college or institution has been granted affiliation, is required to give and
comply with the undertaking, amongst others, that it will observe the
directions of the University as well as the Vice Chancellor. Indeed, such
undertaking must have been given by respondent No. 1-institute at the initial
stage, on the basis of which, affiliation has been granted. But, after it has
acquired the status of an autonomous college, in law, that college can be and
would be bound only by the provisions of the Act made by the Legislature and
Statutes made by the Senate of the University. The undertaking given by it in
anterior point of time would operate and can be enforced only for that limited
purpose. Any other view would be in the teeth of the provisions of the Act of
1994, concerning the full academic, administrative and financial autonomy of
such college, which can be controlled or limited only by the provisions of the
Act and the Statutes.
32 of 54  ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:36:36 ::: 96612
25\. We have, therefore, no hesitation in taking the view that the principal
challenge to the constitution of the Selection Committee or the selection
process on the ground of non-compliance of directions issued by the Vice
Chancellor, ought to fail.
26\. The petitioners have not raised any ground that the constitution of the
Selection Committee or the selection process is not in conformity with or
consistent with the norms specified by the Government Resolution dated 1st
March, 2008 or that of the AICTE.
The challenge is that the State Government is not authorised to issue any
directions in respect of those matters. Admittedly, neither the Act of 1994
nor the Statutes made by the Senate of the University in respect of autonomous
colleges or, for that matter, the AICTE has made any provision either with
regard to the constitution of the Selection Committee or the selection
procedure to be followed by such Committee. That means, there is complete
autonomy to the autonomous colleges in respect of those matters, which are in
the realm of administrative and/or academic activities and powers of the
autonomous college. The respondent-institute, therefore, could have 33 of 54
::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:36:36 ::: 96612 proceeded to constitute its
own Selection Committee for selecting the best candidate, keeping in mind its
obligation that it has to function with the objective of promoting academic
freedom and scholarship on the part of the teachers and students, which are
essential to the fostering and development of an intellectual climate
conducive to the pursuit of scholarship and excellence. However, as the
respondent-
institute is fully aided Government college, in spite of the autonomy under
the Act of 1994, it must abide by the directions of the State Government to
become entitled for receiving grants. Indeed, the directions to be issued by
the State Government must be in conformity with the norms regarding academic
requirements prescribed either by the University or the AICTE. The State
Government cannot issue directions regarding the norms for qualifications and
experience of the staff to be appointed by the autonomous college lower than
the norms specified by the University or the AICTE. To that extent, the State
Government is within its authority to issue direction to the Institutes such
as respondent No. 1. As a result, there is no substance in the challenge
either to the authority of the State Government to issue directions as
contained in its Resolution dated 1 st March, 2008 or the 34 of 54  :::
Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:36:36 ::: 96612 constitution of the Selection
Committee founded on the Government Resolution. As a matter of fact, in the
advertisement in question, the qualification and experience specified is at
least on par with the principal of an engineering institute as per the recent
AICTE guidelines.
27\. The petitioners, by way of amendment, have challenged only the Government
Resolution dated 1 st March, 2008. The said Resolution records that the
Government of Maharashtra is implementing a World Bank assisted "Technical
Education Quality Improvement Programme" in the State. To effectuate the said
programme, some of the well reputed institutes participating in this programme
are granted autonomy and the Boards of Governance are established for these
institutions. The said institutions are expected to acquire academic autonomy
from the respective universities. The Government thought it appropriate to fix
minimum eligibility criterion and modus of operandi for the appointment of
faculty position in these institutions, so as to bring uniformity amongst
these institutions and ensure the functioning of these institutions under the
terms and 35 of 54  ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:36:36 ::: 96612
conditions prescribed in Government Resolution dated 31 st March, 2004 bearing
No. WBP-2004/(341/04)/TE-6. The Government Resolution dated 1st March, 2008
also refers to the Government Resolution No. WBP-2005/ (885/05)/TE-6 dated 1st
June, 2006.
However, neither the Resolution dated 31 st March, 2004 nor dated 1st June,
2006, as the case may be, has been challenged by the petitioners.
28\. Concededly, the respondent-institution has constituted the Selection
Committee as per the norms specified in Government Resolution dated 31st
March, 2004. Clause 2.1(5) of the said Government Resolution deals with
administrative and management aspects to be observed by the concerned
colleges. Sub-clause (5) thereof reads thus:-
> "(5) There will be the Selection Committee as under for the selection of the
> Directors:
                     Chairman:      Chairman of Governing Body of the
                     Institution.
> Vice Chairman: Principal Secretary/Secretary, Higher and Technical Education
> Department, Mantralaya, Mumbai 2 Member - Directors: Tata Institute of
> Fundamental Research, Mumbai or Director I.I.T., Mumbai or equivalent
> Nationally reknown Institution. Member-Secretary-Director, Technical
> Education, Maharashtra State, Mumbai.
> After granting autonomy to this Institution, the person presently working on
> the post of Principal in the Autonomous Institution can remain on the post
> of 36 of 54  ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:36:36 ::: 96612 Director of
> the Institution for 2 years, if he desires so. But it will be necessary for
> making his selection by the Selection Committee for remaining on the post
> thereafter. If he has not been reselected, he will be adjusted on the
> equivalent post of of the same salary grade in the same or in any other
> Institution. The tenure of the Directors selected by the above Selection
> Committee will be of 5 years."
29\. As regards Government Resolution dated 1 st March, 2008, it deals with
qualifications, experience and other requirement of Director under paragraph
(B). It provides that an eminent person with academic and administrative
experience of high caliber having qualification and experience at least on par
with those of Professor is eligible to hold the post of Director. In other
words, the qualifications and experience prescribed by the State Government in
these Government Resolutions cannot be said to be inconsistent with the norm
specified by AICTE in that regard. As aforesaid, the respondent-
institution constituted the Selection Committee as per the norm contained in
Government Resolution dated 31 st March, 2004. Further, the qualifications and
experience prescribed for the post of Director in Government Resolution dated
1st March, 2008; and more particularly advertisement inviting applications
issued by the respondent-institute is in conformity with the qualifications
and experience prescribed by 37 of 54  ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:36:36
::: 96612 AICTE. We, therefore, fail to understand as to how the Government
Resolution can be said to be without authority of law and for the same reason,
to question the constitution of the Selection Committee.
30\. That takes us to the original ground urged in the writ petition that the
decision of the Selection Committee to resort to elimination of candidates is
without authority of law, as it is neither provided in the advertisement in
question and is inconsistent with the directions issued by the Vice
Chancellor. The later issue has already been considered elaborately hitherto.
We do not wish to dilate on that matter any further except to observe that the
directions issued by the Vice-Chancellor are not applicable in the present
case. The other argument that the short listing process was not indicated in
the advertisement in question, even that is devoid of any substance. As a
matter of fact, the decision of the Apex Court relied upon by the petitioners
in B. Ramakichenin (supra), answers the issue against the petitioners. Even in
that case, it was argued that, if there is no Rule providing for short
listing, nor mentioned in the advertisement calling for applications for the
post, the selection body could not have resorted 38 of 54  ::: Downloaded on -
09/06/2013 18:36:36 ::: 96612 to short listing procedure. This contention has
been negatived. The Court has noted that the selection body has implicit
authority in that behalf and can resort to short listing by prescribing
certain minimum marks and only those who have got standard marks could be
called for the interview. This can be done even if the advertisement does not
mention that only those who have minimum marks will be considered or appointed
on the post. The Court went on to observe that short listing is only a
practical via media, which has been accepted by the Courts in various
decisions. It enables to overcome great difficulties for selecting and
appointing authorities in interviewing large number of candidates. The
judgment, however, notes that, if a prescribed method of short listing has
been mentioned in the rule or advertisement, then, that method alone has to be
followed. This dictum has no application to the present case, as neither the
Act nor the Statutes applicable to the respondent institute, much less the
directions issued by the AICTE mention any method of short listing. The
underlying reason to resort to short listing of candidates is to make the
interview and discussion process more meaningful and effective so as to
identify the best candidate amongst the applicants who can be 39 of 54  :::
Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:36:36 ::: 96612 appointed on the post of
Director.
31\. The petitioners, however, contend that the process was to fill one post
of Director and only 20 applications were received.
In that case, it was obligatory for the Selection Committee to interview
candidates and find out merits of each candidate in accordance with the
qualifications advertised. This argument was founded on clause 6(3)(d) of the
directions issued by the Vice Chancellor. As noted earlier, the directions of
Vice Chancellor have no application to the autonomous colleges. Besides, in
absence of any specific guidelines in the Act or the Statutes or the
directions issued by the AICTE, the respondent No. 1 was obliged to abide by
the directions issued by the State Government, which are equally binding on
the respondent-
institute, as the Government has a participatory role in the institute, being
fully funded from the State exchequer. The fact that only 20 applications were
received does not mean that the decision taken by the Selection Committee on
that aspect is vulnerable to attack of being unjust, non-objective or devoid
of rational criterion. Notably, in the case of M.P. Public Service Commission
v. Navnit Kumar Potdar, A.I.R. 1975 S.C. 77, there were only four posts in
General Category, 40 of 54  ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:36:36 ::: 96612
against which, 188 applications were received. By resorting to short listing
of candidates, the Selection Committee invited only 71 candidates for
interview. The Apex Court upheld the action of the Selection Committee. The
Apex Court did not interfere with the said discretion exercised by the
Selection Committee. In the present case, on account of the short listing
procedure invoked by the Selection Committee, only ten candidates secured the
benchmark specified by the Selection Committee. As is noted earlier, the
process involves interview and discussion of the qualified candidates.
Therefore, there is nothing wrong in limiting the number to manageable figure,
so as to devote proper time and attention and objectively assess each of the
candidates to find out the best candidate suited for the post of Director of
the institute, which is, admittedly, a premier institute in Maharashtra. We
agree with the submission of the respondents that the short listing procedure
is also in the nature of adjudging the merits of the candidates. Accordingly,
we are not impressed with the challenge to the short listing of candidates. We
hold that it was not impermissible in law or unwarranted in the fact situation
of the present case.
41 of 54  ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:36:36 ::: 96612
32\. The next question is: Whether the procedure of short listing of
candidates can be said to have been evolved by the Selection Committee itself?
From the original record as produced before us, and the affidavit of the
Member of the Selection Committee dated 9 th May, 2012, it is noticed that the
Search Committee was appointed to assist the Selection Committee in the
decision-making process. The Search Committee submitted its recommendation,
firstly, about the necessity of short listing of candidates and, secondly,
about the candidates who would qualify to be invited for interview and
discussion. That recommendation was duly considered in the meeting of the
Selection Committee held on 26th April, 2012. It was open to the Selection
Committee to disagree with the said recommendation and take some other
decision. The Selection Committee, however, chose to accept the recommendation
so made and proceeded on that basis. Thus, it is a case of decision of the
Selection Committee itself and, at any rate, ratification of the
recommendation made by the Search Committee.
The petitioners would rely on the decision of the Apex Court in the case of
The State of Andhra Pradesh (supra) to contend that, by 42 of 54  :::
Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:36:37 ::: 96612 ratification, the infirmity
cannot be cured. In our considered opinion, this decision has no bearing on
the factual matrix involved in the present case. In that case, the selection
body proceeded with the selection process in absence of the representation of
the Director of Higher Education, which was essential. The District Education
Officer, at a later point of time, validated and ratified the said
proceedings. The Court found that the Selection Committee had proceeded
without the quorum and, therefore, the business transacted in such a meeting
was vitiated. The absentee cannot be called upon to ratify the conclusion
already reached in such meeting. In the present case, however, all the members
of the Selection Committee had met on 26th April, 2012 and considered the
recommendation made by the Search Committee, which was submitted only to
assist them in the process. Thus, the Selection Committee itself took the
final decision in the matter and proceeded with the selection process on that
basis.
33\. The next argument of the petitioners is that decision of short listing of
candidates taken by the Selection Committee lacks objectivity and rational
criterion. This argument is advanced on the 43 of 54  ::: Downloaded on -
09/06/2013 18:36:37 ::: 96612 basis of averments in paragraph 9 of the reply-
affidavit of respondent No. 1 dated 4th May, 2012, which have been extracted
in the earlier part of this decision. In our opinion, this argument is only
presumptuous. From the original file produced before us, the criterion of
assigning marks to the candidates on the basis of their achievements has been
clearly mentioned. That criterion has met the approval of the Selection
Committee. Further, case of each candidate was assessed on the basis of that
criterion. The norm so specified, in our opinion, by no standards, can be said
to be non-objective or irrational. Therefore, even this argument does not take
the matter any further for the petitioners. As a mater of fact, petitioner No.
2, admittedly, possesses only requisite qualifications. He does not possess
the desirable qualifications mentioned in the advertisement. Petitioner No. 2,
in any case, cannot succeed. As regards petitioner No.1, he possesses
requisite as well as desirable qualifications and experience. His case has
been assessed by the Search Committee in the first place. That recommendation
is approved by the Selection Committee. He has failed to secure above 70 marks
and, therefore, stood eliminated, though eligible to be considered as per the
norm prescribed in the 44 of 54  ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:36:37 :::
96612 advertisement. Consequent to elimination during the short listing of
candidates, he cannot be considered for appointment to the said post.
Only those candidates who have secured more than 70 marks were entitled to be
called for interview and discussion by the Selection Committee. Even though
the grounds other than the grounds articulated in the writ petition or in the
rejoinder-affidavit have been urged before us, no argument has been advanced
that petitioner No. 1 ought to have been assigned more than 70 marks on the
basis of the norms indicated in the Minutes of Search Committee Meeting held
on April 17, 2012 referred to above. If such grievance is available to
petitioner No. 1, that can be considered on its own merits. For the reasons
stated above, we have no hesitation in taking the view that the petition is
devoid of merits.
34\. That takes us to the next argument of the petitioners.
It was argued that the respondent Institute in the past has followed the norms
specified in the Vice-Chancellor's directions. Reliance was placed on the
previous advertisements issued by the Respondent 45 of 54  ::: Downloaded on -
09/06/2013 18:36:37 ::: 96612 Institute to fill up the post of professors.
Those advertisements and the selection process was, however, prior to grant of
autonomous status to the respondent institute, which happened only on 20 th
August, 201. As a result, no fault can be found with the Respondent Institute
for following the procedure prescribed under the Vice-Chancellor's directions
as at the relevant time, the status of the respondent institute was only that
of affiliated college of the University of Mumbai.
ig Assuming that it had adopted the said procedure, even after having acquired
the autonomous status, it is not open to argue that Respondent No.1 was
obliged to follow the same norm even though in law directives of the Vice-
Chancellor were and cannot be binding on the autonomous college. There is
nothing wrong if, lateron, the autonomous college were to follow and insist
that it would abide only by the regime prescribed under the Act or the
Statutes framed by the Senate of the University and the directions issued by
the State Government - which were consistent with the qualifications,
experience norms specified by the AICTE. For the same reason, even the
argument of the petitioners that other autonomous colleges are following the
directions issued by the 46 of 54  ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:36:37 :::
96612 Vice-Chancellor will have to be negatived. Unless it is held that the
directions issued by the Vice-Chancellor are binding even on the colleges
which are granted status of autonomous colleges, the argument under
consideration cannot be taken forward.
35\. That takes us to the argument of the petitioners which has not been
mentioned in the writ petition or the draft amendment.
The learned Counsel for the petitioners has relied on the circular issued by
the University of Mumbai under the signature of In-Charge Registrar. The said
Circular has been produced on record by Respondent No.3 Deputy Director of
Technical Education.
Accompanying the said circular, are the rules regarding selection committee,
selection procedure and eligibility criterion and qualifications and
equivalence. However, these rules are general rules and not made applicable to
autonomous colleges. Moreover, the Rules have been accepted by the Academic
Council of the University, as is stated in the circular, in its meeting held
on 21 st December, 2011. Assuming that these rules are applicable to
engineering colleges such as the Respondent No.1 institute, however, 47 of 54
::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:36:37 ::: 96612 these rules will have no
application to autonomous colleges. As aforesaid, it is only the provisions in
the Act made by Legislature or the Statutes passed by the Senate of the
University, the academic and Administrative autonomy of the autonomous
colleges can be regulated. As aforesaid, there is neither any provision in the
Act made by the Legislature or the Statutes made by the Senate of the
University which govern the field. Hence, even this argument does not commend
to us.
36\. In the draft amendment, the first relief claimed is to quash and set
aside the G.R. dated 1 st March, 2008. We have already dealt with the efficacy
of the said resolution. We have held that the Government, having participatory
role in the affairs of the respondent institute, being fully (100%) aided from
the State exchequer, is competent to issue directions regarding financial or
administrative matters pertaining to the Institutions such as the respondent
Institute, subject, however, to such directions being consistent with the
provisions of the Act of 1994 and the Statutes 48 of 54  ::: Downloaded on -
09/06/2013 18:36:37 ::: 96612 made thereunder and the norms specified by the
AICTE. We have already held that the guidelines contained in the G.R. dated 1
st March, 2008 in respect of the constitution of Selection Committee or the
procedure to be followed by the said Committee are not inconsistent with the
provisions of the Act or the Statutes as also the norms specified by the
AICTE.
37\. Our attention was invited to the notification dated 5 th March, 2010
issued by the AICTE. The said notification does not provide for constitution
of the Selection Committee but only deals with the qualifications and
experience. As regards the post of Director, the same reads thus:
Program Cadre Qualification Experience Princi- Qualification as Minimum of 10
years experience in pal/ above that is for teaching / Research / Industry out
of Director the post of which at least 3 years shall be at the Professor, as
level of Professor.
                           applicable         Or
                                              Minimum of 13 years experience in
                           Post         PhD teaching, and / or Research and / or
                           publications and industry.
                           guiding      PhD
                           students        is In case of research experience, good
highly desirable academic record and books / research paper publications / IPR
/ patents record shall be required as deemed fit 49 of 54  ::: Downloaded on -
09/06/2013 18:36:37 ::: 96612 by the expert members of the Selection
committee.
If the experience in industry is considered, the same shall be at managerial
level equivalent to Professor level with active participation record in
devising / designing, developing, planning, executing, analyzing, quality
control, innovating, training, technical books / research paper publications /
IPR / patents, etc. as deemed fit by the expert members of the Selection ig
committee.
Flair for Management and Leadership is essential.
In case of Architecture, Professional Practice of 10 years as certified by the
Council of Architecture shall also be considered valid.
38\. We have already noticed the qualification and experience mentioned in the
advertisement. The same is founded on the recent guidelines issued by the
AICTE itself. The G.R. dated 1 st March, 2008, as noted earlier, in fact does
not provide for qualification and experience lower than provided by AICTE.
Merely because it observes that the qualification and experience must be at
least on par with those of professors, does not mean that it is inconsistent
with the norm specified by the AICTE. In fact, we are required to answer the
controversy on the basis of the qualification and experience 50 of 54  :::
Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:36:37 ::: 96612 prescribed in the advertisement,
which, we have found, is consistent with the recent guidelines of AICTE.
Accordingly, there is no merit in the challenge to the G.R. dated 1st March,
2008.
39\. The second additional relief claimed in the draft amendment is to declare
that the manner and mode of selection and appointment of Director in the
respondent Institute is governed by the Vice-Chancellor's directions. We have
already dealt with this aspect at great length. We have held that the Vice-
Chancellor's directions have no application to the autonomous colleges. For,
the autonomous colleges have full academic, administrative and financial
autonomy, which can be regulated only by provisions of the Act made by the
Legislature or Statutes made by the Senate of the University in exercise of
power under Section 52 of the Act of 1994.
Accordingly, the second additional relief in the draft amendment will have to
be rejected.
40\. The third additional relief claimed by way of draft amendment is to
declare that the selection of the Director of the 51 of 54  ::: Downloaded on
- 09/06/2013 18:36:37 ::: 96612 Respondent Institute pursuant to the G.R.
dated 1 st March, 2008 is a nullity in the eye of law. This relief also will
have to be negatived keeping in mind the observations made by us in the
earlier part of the decision. We have held that, in absence of any provision
in the Act of 1994 or the Statutes framed thereunder or the guidelines issued
by the AICTE on the field covered by the impugned Government Resolutions, the
State Government is competent to issue directions to the Respondent Institute
being fully (100%) aided by the State Government from the public exchequer.
The State Government, therefore, would be justified in issuing guidelines to
such institutions so as to bring uniformity amongst all such institutions
which are funded by the State Government in the same manner. However, the
guidelines or directives should be consistent and subject to the provisions of
the Act of 1994 or the Statutes made thereunder and the guidelines or norms
specified by the AICTE in respect of the academic matters. Suffice it to
observe that in the present case, the advertisement refers to the
qualifications and experience which is consistent with the recent guidelines
of AICTE. Hence, even the third additional relief will have to be negatived.
52 of 54  ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:36:37 ::: 96612
41\. We, therefore, conclude that there is no infirmity in the constitution of
Selection Committee by Respondent No.1 institute nor in the process followed
by the Selection Committee regarding short listing of candidates or in the
norm formulated for short listing the candidates and the assessment of the
candidates on that basis.
We further hold that there is no infirmity in the selection process for the
post of Director of Respondent No.1 institute by excluding the petitioners on
account of short listing.
42\. As a result, this petition fails. The same deserves to be dismissed.
43\. Accordingly, this petition is dismissed. The Ad-interim relief granted on
26th April, 2012 is vacated, forthwith.
44\. At this stage, the Counsel for the Petitioners, submits that the
petitioners may consider of filing appeal against this decision for which
reason the ad-interim relief be continued for some time.
53 of 54  ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:36:37 ::: 96612 This prayer is
opposed by the Counsel for Respondent No.1.
We have already noticed the urgency, and because of which, we took up this
petition for immediate hearing, without insisting on technicalities of
amendment of the petition. Grant of any interim relief would result in
prolonging the process of appointment of the selected candidate which cannot
brook delay because of resignation tendered by the present incumbent as back
as on 13 th January, 2012 and moreso, because, the admissions to the courses
conducted by the Respondent College for the new academic year would commence
from June, 2012. Accordingly, prayer for continuation of interim relief is
rejected.
        S.S. SHINDE, J.                        A.M. KHANWILKAR, J.
                                                                            54 of 54
                                                    ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:36:37 :::
42\. As a result, this petition fails. The same deserves to be dismissed.
43\. Accordingly, this petition is dismissed. The Ad-interim relief granted on
26th April, 2012 is vacated, forthwith.
44\. At this stage, the Counsel for the Petitioners, submits that the
petitioners may consider of filing appeal against this decision for which
reason the ad-interim relief be continued for some time.
53 of 54  ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:36:37 ::: 96612 This prayer is
opposed by the Counsel for Respondent No.1.
We have already noticed the urgency, and because of which, we took up this
petition for immediate hearing, without insisting on technicalities of
amendment of the petition. Grant of any interim relief would result in
prolonging the process of appointment of the selected candidate which cannot
brook delay because of resignation tendered by the present incumbent as back
as on 13 th January, 2012 and moreso, because, the admissions to the courses
conducted by the Respondent College for the new academic year would commence
from June, 2012. Accordingly, prayer for continuation of interim relief is
          Mumbai 400 019
          2. University of Mumbai,
          through the Registrar,
          Mumbai 400 032
          3. State of Maharashtra,
          through the Secretary,
          Department of Higher and Technical Education,
          Mantralaya, Mumbai 400 032.                                  ...Respondents
          Mr. Susheel Mahadeshwar i/b Mrs. Ranjana Todankar for the Petitioners
          Mr. D.J. Khambatta, Advocate General, a/w Mr. A.M. Kulkarni for Resp.
          Nos.1 & 2
          Mrs. Anjali Helekar, AGP, for the Respondent No.3
                                                                                    1 of 54
                                                          ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:36:36 :::
                                                                                    96612
                                       CORAM: A.M. KHANWILKAR &
                                              S.S. SHINDE, JJ.
DATE: MAY 11, 2012 JUDGMENT (Per A.M. Khanwilkar, J.):-
1\. Rule. Counsel appearing for the respective respondents waive notice. By
consent, Rule made returnable forthwith and heard finally.
42\. As a result, this petition fails. The same deserves to be dismissed.
43\. Accordingly, this petition is dismissed. The Ad-interim relief granted on
26th April, 2012 is vacated, forthwith.
44\. At this stage, the Counsel for the Petitioners, submits that the
petitioners may consider of filing appeal against this decision for which
reason the ad-interim relief be continued for some time.
53 of 54  ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:36:37 ::: 96612 This prayer is
opposed by the Counsel for Respondent No.1.
We have already noticed the urgency, and because of which, we took up this
petition for immediate hearing, without insisting on technicalities of
amendment of the petition. Grant of any interim relief would result in
prolonging the process of appointment of the selected candidate which cannot
brook delay because of resignation tendered by the present incumbent as back
as on 13 th January, 2012 and moreso, because, the admissions to the courses
conducted by the Respondent College for the new academic year would commence
from June, 2012. Accordingly, prayer for continuation of interim relief is
          Mumbai 400 019
          2. University of Mumbai,
          through the Registrar,
          Mumbai 400 032
          3. State of Maharashtra,
          through the Secretary,
          Department of Higher and Technical Education,
          Mantralaya, Mumbai 400 032.                                  ...Respondents
          Mr. Susheel Mahadeshwar i/b Mrs. Ranjana Todankar for the Petitioners
          Mr. D.J. Khambatta, Advocate General, a/w Mr. A.M. Kulkarni for Resp.
          Nos.1 & 2
          Mrs. Anjali Helekar, AGP, for the Respondent No.3
                                                                                    1 of 54
                                                          ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:36:36 :::
                                                                                    96612
                                       CORAM: A.M. KHANWILKAR &
                                              S.S. SHINDE, JJ.
DATE: MAY 11, 2012 JUDGMENT (Per A.M. Khanwilkar, J.):-
1\. Rule. Counsel appearing for the respective respondents waive notice. By
consent, Rule made returnable forthwith and heard finally.
42\. As a result, this petition fails. The same deserves to be dismissed.
43\. Accordingly, this petition is dismissed. The Ad-interim relief granted on
26th April, 2012 is vacated, forthwith.
44\. At this stage, the Counsel for the Petitioners, submits that the
petitioners may consider of filing appeal against this decision for which
reason the ad-interim relief be continued for some time.
53 of 54  ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:36:37 ::: 96612 This prayer is
opposed by the Counsel for Respondent No.1.
We have already noticed the urgency, and because of which, we took up this
petition for immediate hearing, without insisting on technicalities of
amendment of the petition. Grant of any interim relief would result in
prolonging the process of appointment of the selected candidate which cannot
brook delay because of resignation tendered by the present incumbent as back
as on 13 th January, 2012 and moreso, because, the admissions to the courses
conducted by the Respondent College for the new academic year would commence
from June, 2012. Accordingly, prayer for continuation of interim relief is
          Mumbai 400 019
          2. University of Mumbai,
          through the Registrar,
          Mumbai 400 032
          3. State of Maharashtra,
          through the Secretary,
          Department of Higher and Technical Education,
          Mantralaya, Mumbai 400 032.                                  ...Respondents
          Mr. Susheel Mahadeshwar i/b Mrs. Ranjana Todankar for the Petitioners
          Mr. D.J. Khambatta, Advocate General, a/w Mr. A.M. Kulkarni for Resp.
          Nos.1 & 2
          Mrs. Anjali Helekar, AGP, for the Respondent No.3
                                                                                    1 of 54
                                                          ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:36:36 :::
                                                                                    96612
                                       CORAM: A.M. KHANWILKAR &
                                              S.S. SHINDE, JJ.
DATE: MAY 11, 2012 JUDGMENT (Per A.M. Khanwilkar, J.):-
1\. Rule. Counsel appearing for the respective respondents waive notice. By
consent, Rule made returnable forthwith and heard finally.
2\. The petitioners, by this writ petition under Article 226 of the
Constitution of India, have prayed for order or direction restraining
Respondent No.1 from holding the selection process for the post of Director by
excluding them in the said selection process.
3\. The petitioners are employed as professors in the respondent Veermata
Jijabai Technological Institute. Respondent No.1 Institute is a premier
Engineering College in the State of Maharashtra. The Institute is affiliated
to the University of Mumbai.
It has been conferred autonomous status for a period from 2011-2012 to
2016-2017 in accordance with the provisions contained in the Statutes 593 to
642 regarding grant of autonomous status to 2 of 54  ::: Downloaded on -
42\. As a result, this petition fails. The same deserves to be dismissed.
43\. Accordingly, this petition is dismissed. The Ad-interim relief granted on
26th April, 2012 is vacated, forthwith.
44\. At this stage, the Counsel for the Petitioners, submits that the
petitioners may consider of filing appeal against this decision for which
reason the ad-interim relief be continued for some time.
53 of 54  ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:36:37 ::: 96612 This prayer is
opposed by the Counsel for Respondent No.1.
We have already noticed the urgency, and because of which, we took up this
petition for immediate hearing, without insisting on technicalities of
amendment of the petition. Grant of any interim relief would result in
prolonging the process of appointment of the selected candidate which cannot
brook delay because of resignation tendered by the present incumbent as back
as on 13 th January, 2012 and moreso, because, the admissions to the courses
conducted by the Respondent College for the new academic year would commence
from June, 2012. Accordingly, prayer for continuation of interim relief is
          Mumbai 400 019
          2. University of Mumbai,
          through the Registrar,
          Mumbai 400 032
          3. State of Maharashtra,
          through the Secretary,
          Department of Higher and Technical Education,
          Mantralaya, Mumbai 400 032.                                  ...Respondents
          Mr. Susheel Mahadeshwar i/b Mrs. Ranjana Todankar for the Petitioners
          Mr. D.J. Khambatta, Advocate General, a/w Mr. A.M. Kulkarni for Resp.
          Nos.1 & 2
          Mrs. Anjali Helekar, AGP, for the Respondent No.3
                                                                                    1 of 54
                                                          ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:36:36 :::
                                                                                    96612
                                       CORAM: A.M. KHANWILKAR &
                                              S.S. SHINDE, JJ.
DATE: MAY 11, 2012 JUDGMENT (Per A.M. Khanwilkar, J.):-
1\. Rule. Counsel appearing for the respective respondents waive notice. By
consent, Rule made returnable forthwith and heard finally.
2\. The petitioners, by this writ petition under Article 226 of the
Constitution of India, have prayed for order or direction restraining
Respondent No.1 from holding the selection process for the post of Director by
excluding them in the said selection process.
3\. The petitioners are employed as professors in the respondent Veermata
Jijabai Technological Institute. Respondent No.1 Institute is a premier
Engineering College in the State of Maharashtra. The Institute is affiliated
to the University of Mumbai.
It has been conferred autonomous status for a period from 2011-2012 to
2016-2017 in accordance with the provisions contained in the Statutes 593 to
642 regarding grant of autonomous status to 2 of 54  ::: Downloaded on -
42\. As a result, this petition fails. The same deserves to be dismissed.
43\. Accordingly, this petition is dismissed. The Ad-interim relief granted on
26th April, 2012 is vacated, forthwith.
44\. At this stage, the Counsel for the Petitioners, submits that the
petitioners may consider of filing appeal against this decision for which
reason the ad-interim relief be continued for some time.
53 of 54  ::: Downloaded on - 09/06/2013 18:36:37 ::: 96612 This prayer is
opposed by the Counsel for Respondent No.1.
We have already noticed the urgency, and because of which, we took up this
petition for immediate hearing, without insisting on technicalities of
amendment of the petition. Grant of any interim relief would result in
prolonging the process of appointment of the selected candidate which cannot
brook delay because of resignation tendered by the present incumbent as back
as on 13 th January, 2012 and moreso, because, the admissions to the courses
conducted by the Respondent College for the new academic year would commence
from June, 2012. Accordingly, prayer for continuation of interim relief is
