Custom, Excise & Service Tax Tribunal
Millennium Beer Industries Ltd vs Cce Aurangabad on 11 July, 2019
Bench: D. M. Misra
    CUSTOMS, EXCISE & SERVICE TAX APPELLATE TRIBUNAL
                         MUMBAI
                      REGIONAL BENCH - COURT NO.1
                   Service Tax Appeal No.88407 of 2014
    [Arising out of Order-in-Original No.21/ST/COMMR/2014, dt.30.04.2014, passed
    by the CCE & ST, Aurangabad]
    M/s Millenium Beer Industries Ltd                          ......Appellant
    "UB Tower", UBCT #24, Vittal Mallya Road,
    Bangalore 560 001
                                       VERSUS
    CCE, Aurangabad                                           ......Respondent
    N-5, Town Centre, CIDCO,
    Aurangabad 431 030
    Appearance:
    Shri Anand Bhandari & Anil Malani, Advocates for the Appellant
    Shri Roopam Kapoor, Pr. Commr. (AR) for the Respondent
    CORAM:
Appellant and M/s UBL for manufacture of branded beer on behalf of M/s UBL has
been disclosed and within the knowledge of the Department. In these
circumstances, the allegation of suppression cannot be sustained against the
Appellant. Therefore, the demand is barred by limitation.
Millenium Beer-ST 88407 2014  33
43\. We summarize are finding as follows:
> (i) During the relevant period, the Appellant had rendered services to M/s
> United Breweris Ltd, falling under the amended definition of "Business
> Auxiliary Service" as laid down under Section 65 (19) of Finance Act, 1994
> and the computation of demand ought to have been carried out taking note of
> Notification No.39/2009, dt.23.03.2009.
> (ii) The appointed date in the scheme of amalgamation i.e. 01.04.2010 as
> approved by BIFR be considered as the date for considering the service tax
> liability and not the effective date when the certificate of incorporation
> was issued by the Registrar of Companies i.e. 16.11.2011.
(iii) Demand is barred by limitation.
    CORAM:
    HON'BLE DR. D.M. MISRA, MEMBER (JUDICIAL)
    HON'BLE MR. SANJEEV SRIVASTAVA, MEMBER (TECHNICAL)
                     FINAL ORDER NO. A/86241 / 2019
                                                Date of Hearing: 15.01.2019
                                                Date of Decision: 11.07.2019
    PER: D.M. MISRA
          This      appeal       is     filed    against       Order-in-Original
    No.21/ST/COMMR/2014, dt.30.04.2014, passed by the CCE & ST,
    Aurangabad.
    2.    Briefly stated the facts of the case are that the Appellants,
    during the period 23.09.2009 to 15.11.2011, on the basis of an
    Agreement/Contract         dt.01.04.2005    entered     with    M/s    United
    Beverages Ltd (UBL) manufactured and sold alcoholic beverages to
    the customers/indenters of UBL as per the instruction of UBL.
    Alleging that the said activity is classifiable under the taxable
                                                        Millenium Beer-ST 88407 2014
                                      2
    category of Business Auxiliary Service, as amended w.e.f 01.9.2009
    and since they failed to discharge service tax of Rs.21,92,03,724/-
    during the said period    demand notice was issued to them on
    19.12.2012 for recovery of the said amount along with interest and
    penalty. On adjudication, the demand was confirmed with interest
    and penalty. Hence, the present appeal.
    3.   The learned Advocate Shri Anil Malani for the Appellant has
    submitted that by brewing agreement between the Appellant and
    M/s UBL dt.01.04.2005 and further amended by the agreement
    dt.02.03.2009, M/s UBL being owner of 'King Fisher' and 'London
    Pilsner Brands' permitted the Appellant to manufacture and sell the
    branded   beer.   Under    the   said     agreement,    UBL        granted
    non-assignable, non-transferable and non-exhaustive rights to the
    Appellant to brew the beer under the brand owned by UBL. The
    Appellant had paid UBL all inclusive consideration of Rs.5/- per case
    of beer for usage of brand names of UBL and UBL has discharged
    service tax liability on the said amount under Intellectual Property
    Right Services. The Appellant has undertaken manufacturing of beer
    on his own and sold the same to third party in the same manner it
    manufactured and sold beer under on its own brand name.                  The
    entire production bearing the brand name of UBL has been sold by
    the Appellant directly to the customers, distributors of UBL and also
    to UBL. Such sales are made under invoices raised by the Appellant
    on all customers including UBL and applicable sales tax was paid by
    the Appellant. It is his contention that the allegations in the show
    cause notice is that they have rendered services under the taxable
    category of business auxiliary service Sec. 65(19) of Finance
                                                                  Millenium Beer-ST 88407 2014
                                            3
    Act,1994 i.e. under clause (v) "production or processing of goods
    for, or on behalf of the client", pursuant to the amendment brought
    to the said definition w.e.f. 01.09.2009. The Revenue has issued the
    demand notice on the ground that even if the activity results into
    manufacture of goods leviable to state excise duty, but the same
    results into rendering business auxiliary service, which is incorrect,
    in view of the Board's Circular No.249/1/2006-CX-4, dt.27.10.2008.
    It is their contention that the circular issued on 27.10.2008 mentions
    several types of arrangements between the Brand owner (BO) and
    the contract manufacturer of alcoholic beverages (CBU) viz. (i)
    brand     licensing        arrangement,     (ii)   contract       manufacturing
    arrangement, and (iii) lease arrangement. It is his contention that if
    is the contract brewing unit (CBU) undertakes the complete
    processes of manufacture of alcoholic beverages under contract
    bottling arrangement, then such activity would not fall under the
    taxable    service    of    business   auxiliary   service    and      hence       not
    chargeable to service tax. In case the activity undertaken by the
    CBU falls short of the definition of 'manufacture' (like packing,
    labeling, etc) then such activity would fall within the said category.
    In the present case, since the Appellant undertakes entire process of
    manufacture, hence their service would not fall under business
    auxiliary service.
    3.1     Further they have submitted that the agreement between the
    Appellant and UBL is on principal to principal basis, hence it is to be
    inferred that manufacturing activity is carried out by the Appellant.
    It is further argued that the contract between the parties clearly
                                                                 Millenium Beer-ST 88407 2014
                                            4
    indicate that UBL has given intellectual property right to the
    Appellant for which the Appellant paid an amount of Rs.5/- per case
    to UBL. Therefore, the transaction as per agreement dt.01.04.2005
    cannot be considered as production or processing on behalf of the
    client. In support, they have referred to the judgment in the case of
    Parle Beverages Ltd Vs UoI & Others - 1982 (10) ELT 142
    (Bombay), Poona Bottling Company & Another Vs UoI - 1981 (8)
    ELT 389 (Delhi), Rubicon Formulations Ltd Vs CCE & ST, Aurangabad
    - 2010 (19) SER TR 515, UOI Vs Cibatul Ltd - AIR 1986 SC 281, CIT
    Vs B.M. Kharwar - AIR 1969 SC 812, Hindu Shipyard Ltd Vs State of
    Andhra Pradesh - AIR 2000 SC 2411.
    3.2   Learned   Advocate        has    vehemently     argued      that      in    any
    transaction of service tax, there has to be a service provider who
    renders service and the service receiver of the said service. In the
    present case, service provider has been rendering service under IPR
    service in terms of Circular No.249/1/2006-CX-4, dt.27.04.2008.
    Since UBL has already provided service on                   its beer brands
    manufactured by the Appellant, on the same transaction again how
    Appellant could have provided service to UBL. It is his contention
    that Service tax cannot be calculated at both ends of the same
    transaction. Referring to Section 67 of the Finance Act, 1994, the
    learned Advocate has submitted that receipt of consideration is a
    pre-requisite   for   service    tax    levy;   in   the   present       case      the
    consideration was for the goods supplied and not for the services
    rendered.   The Appellant had not received any consideration from
    UBL for rendition of any service.           Referring to the Board Circular
                                                            Millenium Beer-ST 88407 2014
                                       5
    dt.30.10.2009, he has submitted that the service tax should be
    payable on bottling, job charges, distribution cost and other
    reimbursable. As regards the statutory levy, they do not represent
    consideration for rendering the service.    Such amount will not be
    included in the value for charging service tax.             Similarly, the
    surplus/profit earned by the brand owner being in the nature of
    business profit, not chargeable to service tax. In the present case,
    UBL does not pay any bottling, job charges to the Company nor any
    distribution cost to the Company. Also, UBL does not reimburse any
    expenses to the Company and the Appellant had sufficient evidence
    indicating the value of inputs.   Narrating various costs incurred by
    the Appellant during the manufacture of beer, the learned Advocate
    has submitted that the said costs are common whether it is for
    manufacture of own brand or brands belonging to UBL. Referring to
    the draft circular of November 2006, the learned Advocate has
    submitted that manufacture of alcoholic beverages falls outside the
    scope of Union List and therefore, the Central Excise Act cannot be
    made applicable to production of alcoholic beverages.            Hence, the
    same has been kept outside the scope. Accordingly, the activity of
    blending, production, bottling, packing or labeling of alcoholic
    beverages does not amount to manufacture within the meaning of
    Clause (f) of Section 2 of Central Excise Act, 1944.
    3.3. The Ld. Advocate submitted that the definition of 'Business
    Auxiliary Service' included the services of production or processing
    of goods for or on behalf of the client. It specifically excluded any
    activity that amounts to manufacture of excisable goods. "Excisable
    goods" has defined under Section 2(d) of Central Excise Act, 1944.
                                                            Millenium Beer-ST 88407 2014
                                        6
    If the product emerging out of processes carried out by the job
    worker is not excisable good, the services were not excluded from
    the definition. With effect from 01.07.2012 any process amounting
    to manufacture or production of goods as specified in Clause (f) of
    Section 66(D) of Finance Act, 1994 fall under the negative list and
    accordingly not taxable.     Further the Item No.30 of Notification
    No.25/2012-ST,      dt.20.06.2012       allowed   exemption      to     certain
    services provided as a job worker, which were exempted from
    payment of service tax by different notification prior to 01.07.2012.
    Applying the same analogy of manufacture of goods, being purely a
    "manufacturing activity" service tax also cannot be levied for the
    period 01.09.2009 to 30.06.2012 as the period prior to it exempts
    applicability of service tax on manufacture.
    3.4      Learned Advocate has further submitted that as per the
    scheme of amalgamation sanctioned by BIFR, the Appellant has
    merged in UBL w.e.f. 01.04.2010, hence there is no question of any
    liability of service tax after the said date. He has submitted that the
    amalgamation is done as per Section 17 (2) of Sick Industrial
    Companies (Miscellaneous Provisions) Act, 1987 and the said Act is
    having over-riding effect over all other laws for the time being in
    force.    The scheme has attained finality under the said Act.                 In
    support, he has referred to the judgment on the issue viz. Marshal &
    Sons Vs Income Tax Officer - 1997 (2) SCC 302, CCE Trichy Vs IOC
    Ltd - 2011 (23) SER TR 625.
    3.5      He has further contended that once applicable sales tax/VAT
    is paid on the transaction, service tax is not payable again in relation
                                                              Millenium Beer-ST 88407 2014
                                          7
    to the subject transaction. He has referred to the judgment in the
    case of Idea Mobile Communication - 2006 (4) STR 132 (T),
    Thermax Ltd Vs CCE Pune-I - 2007 (8) STR 487 (T).
    3.6       The learned Advocate has further submitted that extended
    period of limitation cannot be made applicable as there has been no
    willful    suppression   of   facts   on   behalf   of   the    Appellant         in
    manufacturing and selling of beer bearing the brand name of M/s
    UBL when the consideration paid for use of brand name has already
    suffered service tax and known to the department. Further, he has
    submitted that the computation of demand is incorrect as they are
    entitled to benefit of Notification No.12/2003, dt.20.06.2003.                   In
    support, they have referred to the judgment of Hon'ble Supreme
    Court in the case of Maruti Udyog Limited - 2002 (141) ELT 3 (SC).
    Further, they have submitted that in absence of any intention to
    evade payment of duty, imposition of penalty is bad in law.
    4.        Per contra, the learned A.R. for the Revenue Shri Roopam
    Kapoor, Principal Commissioner has submitted that the vires of levy
    of service tax post amendment to the definition of Business Auxiliary
    Service has been upheld by Hon'ble Delhi High Court in the case of
    International Spirits and Wines Association of India Vs UOI - 2016-
    TIOL-1646-HC-DEL-ST. While upholding the constitutional validity of
    Sec. 113(A)(i) of the Finance Act,2009 which amended Sec. 65(19)
    of Finance Act,1994 the Hon'ble High Court has clearly held that the
    transaction of contract manufacturing would be amenable to service
    tax since there is a clear distinction between manufacture of
    alcoholic liquor by oneself and for others. The later partakes the
                                                          Millenium Beer-ST 88407 2014
                                       8
    character of rendition of service which is not amenable to be
    accommodated within the act of manufacture by oneself.
    4.1   It   is   his   argument     that   from    the     manufacturing
    agreement/contract between the Appellant and M/s UBL, it is clear
    at Para 2.1(a) and from various other clauses that the Appellant has
    been authorized for manufacture and bottling of beer in respect of
    trade marks belonging to UBL, that branding of such beer shall be
    sole responsibility of UBL and the branding shall be done at the
    premises of brewer and the beer shall be disposed of as per the
    orders received from UBL.     Therefore, there is no doubt about the
    fact that the activities undertaken by the Appellant clearly fall within
    the scope of 'manufacturing for or on behalf of another'. The stand
    of the Appellant that they were not manufacturing beer on behalf of
    M/s UBL, but were using the rights of brand name used by them for
    which they were paying Rs.5/- per case, is not correct.              On the
    contrary, every aspect of production as well as disposal was
    controlled by UBL which has been clearly spelt out in the
    adjudication order passed by the Commissioner.
    4.2   Referring to the Notification NJo.39/2009-ST, dt.23.09.2009,
    the learned A.R. has submitted that valuation in this regard has
    been prescribed, which is equivalent to the cost of production less
    the value of the input, based on which the taxable value of the
    goods could be arrived at. However, the basic condition to apply the
    said notification is that the service provider should maintain separate
    account of receipt, production, inventory and dispatches of goods as
    well as the financial transaction between the alcoholic beverages
                                                          Millenium Beer-ST 88407 2014
                                       9
    manufactured on his own account and manufactured on behalf of
    another. In the present case, the Appellant has not complied any of
    the said condition. Further, he has submitted that reliance placed on
    the Circular of 2008 was erroneous, especially in view of Notification
    Nol.39/2009 which encompasses various charges liable for arriving
    at the valuation of the goods.
    4.3   Further, rebutting the argument of amalgamation of the
    Appellant with M/s UBL from the appointed date of 01.04.2010, the
    learned A.R. has submitted that on verification from division office, it
    has been ascertained that M/s UBL was issued a service tax
    registration on 05.12.2012 only for various services on the address
    of the Appellant.      It was submitted that no application for
    amendment of ST-3 returns had been filed by the Appellant before
    the jurisdictional authority, therefore, there was no representation to
    the Department regarding the merger being in effect prior to the
    date of application or from the date prescribed in the order of BIFR.
    4.4   Referring to the scheme of amalgamation and the orders
    passed by BIFR, he has submitted that in the hearing dated
    24.10.2011, it is recorded that Company is not seeking any
    significant relief from any Government/financial institution. This
    clearly shows that the demand of service tax is not in consideration
    before BIFR. Further, he has submitted that in any case, the issue
    of merger has been examined by various Courts in the case of CIT
    Central-I Vs Shaw Wallace Distilleries Ltd - 2016-TIOL-1228-HC-
    KOL-IT. The Hon'ble Kolkata High Court has held that if the Assessee
    did not bring the fact of amalgamation to the notice of the assessing
                                                        Millenium Beer-ST 88407 2014
                                      10
    officer, the assessment order does not become nullity.             He has
    submitted that besides the fact that these transactions were not
    covered within the scope of amalgamation as ordered by BIFR, the
    Appellant chose not to revise ST-3 return, accordingly the judgment
    in Shaw Wallace Distilleries Ltd case is squarely applicable to the
    facts of the present case. The learned A.R. has further submitted
    that in the case of Indus Tower Limited Vs State of Gujarat 2017-
    TIOL-1845-HC-AHM-VAT, the Hon'ble Gujarat High Court has held
    that provisions of Section 52 of GVAT Act and provisions of Section
    391 or 392 of the Companies Act operate in two different manner.
    It is his contention that there is no similar provision as GVAT Act in
    the Service Tax, it is also a fact that there is no provision for
    amalgamation prescribed in Finance Act, 1994. However, there is a
    specific provision regarding amalgamation in the Income Tax Act and
    that the basis on which the aforesaid judgment has proceeded.
    Hon'ble Gujarat High Court has also held that in the instant case that
    there is no privity of Section 391 or 392 of the Companies Act over
    the GVAT Act.
    4.5     The learned A.R. has further submitted that it is relevant to
    keep in mind that in applying the ratio of the judgment, the Hon'ble
    Courts have held that the precedent is valid for what it actually
    decides. In support, he has referred to the judgment in the case of
    Ambica Quarry Works & Anr. Vs State of Gujarat & Ors. - 1987 SCR
    (1) 562, CCE Mumbai Vs Fiat India Pvt. Ltd - 2012 (283) ELT 161
    (SC).
                                                        Millenium Beer-ST 88407 2014
                                     11
    4.6   On the issue of limitation, the learned A.R. has submitted that
    neither copy of the contract was declared to the Department nor the
    transactions had been mentioned in the ST-3 returns filed by the
    Appellant.     As there was no declaration at any stage to the
    Department about the said activity pursuant to the brewing
    agreement, therefore, the Appellant has suppressed the material
    facts, hence, the demand is rightly confirmed invoking extended
    period of limitation.
    5.    Heard both sides at length and perused the records.
    6.    The issues involved in the present appeal for determination
    are whether:
           (i) the Appellants, who manufactured beer, affixed with the
          Brand name of M/s United Breweries Ltd. and sold under their
          instruction as per Bottling/Brewing agreement dt.01.4.2005 &
          02.3.2009, rendered services under the taxable category of
          "Business Auxiliary Services"(BAS) and the      computation of
          the demand is correct;
           (ii) The merger/amalgamation of Appellant Company with M/s
          United Breweries Ltd. be taken as the appointed date i.e.
          01.4.2010 as per the scheme of amalgamation sanctioned by
          BIFR, Bench-II under Sick Industrial Companies (Miscellaneous
          Provisions) Act, 1987 or 21.06.2012, the effective date when
          the certificate of incorporation was issued by Registrar of
          Companies, thereby, service rendered to self, for the disputed
          period, hence no tax is payable;
                                                            Millenium Beer-ST 88407 2014
                                       12
           (iii) the demand is barred by limitation.
    7.    By virtue of an agreement between the Appellant and M/s UBL
    Breweries Ltd dt.01.04.2005, the Appellant agreed to manufacture
    beer, bearing the brand name owned by M/s UBL, and clear/sale the
    same in the local market to the customers/indenters of M/s UBL
    Ltd. or supply the same to M/s UBL itself. The sale proceeds are
    retained by the Appellant but were required to pay Rs.5/- per case
    to M/s UBL. The department confirmed service tax on the entire sale
    proceeds received by the Appellant on sell of the said beer.
    8.    The Revenue alleged that the Appellants had provided taxable
    service under the category of "Business Auxiliary Service", as
    amended    w.e.f   01.9.2009    particularly   under    clause        (v)     i.e.
    production or processing of goods for, or on behalf of the client,
    hence liable to service tax.
    9.    The Appellants has submitted that even though under the
    bottling agreement, the Appellant is required to manufacture and
    sell the beer affixing/using brand name of M/s United Breweries Ltd.,
    but the entire transaction is only that of a sale transaction with the
    customers under a separate contract and no service of 'production or
    processing of goods for, or on behalf of the client' has been provided
    to M/s UBL, since the goods were manufactured out of their own raw
    material, using their own infrastructure, and the consideration is
    paid by them to M/s UBL for using their Brand name, and no
    consideration was flowing from M/s UBL for the said service. In any
    case the demand of service tax cannot be confirmed on the sale
    price of the branded beer to the customer.
                                                                               Millenium Beer-ST 88407 2014
                                                     13
    10.    Before proceeding further, it is necessary to read the relevant
    provisions of the Finance Act,1994 i.e. the definition of Business
    Auxiliary Services (BAS) as contained in Sec.65(19) of the said Act
    prior to and after 01.09.2009.
    Before 01.9.2009
    [(19) "business auxiliary service" means any service in relation to, --
                      (i)      promotion or marketing or sale of goods produced or provided by or
                      belonging to the client; or
                      (ii)     promotion or marketing of service provided by the client; or
                      [ * * * *]
                      (iii) any customer care service provided on behalf of the client; or
                      (iv) procurement of goods or services, which are inputs for the client; or
                            [Explanation. -- For the removal of doubts, it is hereby declared that for
                      the purposes of this sub-clause, "inputs" means all goods or services intended for
                      use by the client;]
                      [(v) production or processing of goods for, or on behalf of, the client;]
                      (vi) provision of service on behalf of the client; or
                      (vii) a service incidental or auxiliary to any activity specified in sub-clauses (i)
                      to (vi), such as billing, issue or collection or recovery of cheques, payments,
                      maintenance of accounts and remittance, inventory management, evaluation or
                      development of prospective customer or vendor, public relation services,
                      management or supervision,
          and includes services as a commission agent, [but does not include any information
          technology service and any activity that amounts to "manufacture" within the meaning of
          clause (f) of Section 2 of the Central Excise Act,1944.
                [Explanation. -- For the removal of doubts, it is hereby declared that for the purposes
          of this clause, --
                      (a)      "commission agent" means any person who acts on behalf of another
                      person and causes sale or purchase of goods, or provision or receipt of services,
                      for a consideration, and includes any person who, while acting on behalf of
                      another person --
                             (i)       deals with goods or services or documents of title to such goods
                             or services; or
                             (ii)      collects payment of sale price of such goods or services; or
                             (iii)     guarantees for collection or payment for such goods or services;
                             or
                             (iv)      undertakes any activities relating to such sale or purchase of such
                             goods or services;
                       ........................................................................
After 01.9.2009 [(19) "business auxiliary service" means any service in
relation to, --
> (i) promotion or marketing or sale of goods produced or provided by or
> belonging to the client; or
> (ii) promotion or marketing of service provided by the client; or [ * * * *]
> (iii) any customer care service provided on behalf of the client; or
> (iv) procurement of goods or services, which are inputs for the client; or
> Millenium Beer-ST 88407 2014  14 [Explanation. -- For the removal of doubts,
> it is hereby declared that for the purposes of this sub-clause, "inputs"
> means all goods or services intended for use by the client;] [(v) production
> or processing of goods for, or on behalf of, the client;]
> (vi) provision of service on behalf of the client; or
> (vii) a service incidental or auxiliary to any activity specified in sub-
> clauses (i) to (vi), such as billing, issue or collection or recovery of
> cheques, payments, maintenance of accounts and remittance, inventory
> management, evaluation or development of prospective customer or vendor,
> public relation services, management or supervision, and includes services
> as a commission agent, [but does not include any activity that amounts to
> manufacture of excisable goods].
> [Explanation. -- For the removal of doubts, it is hereby declared that for
> the purposes of this clause, --
> (a) "commission agent" means any person who acts on behalf of another person
> and causes sale or purchase of goods, or provision or receipt of services,
> for a consideration, and includes any person who, while acting on behalf of
> another person --
> (i) deals with goods or services or documents of title to such goods or
> services; or
> (ii) collects payment of sale price of such goods or services; or
> (iii) guarantees for collection or payment for such goods or services; or
> (iv) undertakes any activities relating to such sale or purchase of such
> goods or services;
> [(b) "excisable goods" has the meaning assigned to it in clause (d) of
> section 2 of the Central Excise Act, 1944 (1 of 1944);
> (c) "manufacture" has the meaning assigned to it in clause (f) of section 2
> of the Central
> 11\. The change that has been brought into the definition of the BAS w.e.f.
> 01.9.2009 is the nerve chord of dispute. In the previous definition the
> exclusion clause was expressed as:
> "[but does not include any information technology service and any activity
> that amounts to "manufacture" within the meaning of clause (f) of Section 2
> of the Central Excise Act,1944."
> 12\. The amendment to the said clause reads as:
> ", [but does not include any activity that amounts to manufacture of
> excisable goods.
> 13\. And the meaning of "manufacture" and "excisable goods"
mentioned under the said clause read as:
> "[(b) "excisable goods" has the meaning assigned to it in clause (d) of
> section 2 of the Central Excise Act, 1944 (1 of 1944);
> (c) "manufacture" has the meaning assigned to it in clause (f) of section 2
> of the CentralExcise Act, 1944 (1 of 1944)."
> Millenium Beer-ST 88407 2014  15
> 14\. Now, reading both these provisions in juxtaposition prevailing prior to
> 1/9/2009 and thereafter, it can be noticed that in the earlier provision it
> was prescribed that any activity that amounts to manufacture within the
> meaning of section 2(f) of Central excise Act, 1944 be excluded from the
> scope of the said definition. It did not prescribe the resultant of such
> activity whether excisable goods or otherwise, but, by implication, it is to
> be understood that goods which fall within the purview of the Central Excise
> Tariff Act, 1985 were only covered there under and excluded. In the amended
> provision, after 1/9/2009, it is stipulated that to fall within the
> exclusion clause, not only the activity should be 'manufacture' within the
> scope of section 2(f) of Central Excise Act, but the resultant should also
> be an 'excisable goods'. The meaning of 'manufacture' is retained as was
> assigned earlier however, the meaning of 'excisable goods' has been
> prescribed under the new provision.
15\. The revenue's contention is that to remove the mischief in the earlier
provision which excluded the activity of 'manufacture', applicable both to
excisable goods as well as non-excisable goods, the amended provision
restricted the exclusion clause only to 'excisable goods' as defined under
section 2(d) of Central Excise Act, 1944\. In other words, the activity
carried out has resulted into 'manufacture' of non-excisable goods, such
activity, even if satisfies the tests laid down in ascertaining whether a
process or series of processes results into emergence of a product having
different name, character, use, etc., and thus become 'manufacture', it would
fall under the category of' Business auxiliary service', and leviable
Millenium Beer-ST 88407 2014  16 to service tax. The said argument of the
revenue finds support from the circular issued by the board after amendment,
the relevant portion reads as under:
> Government of India Ministry of Finance Department of Revenue Tax Research
> Unit *** D.O.F. No.334/13/2009-TRU New Delhi, 6th July, 2009 Dear Chief
> Commissioner/Director General/Commissioner, The Finance Minister has
> introduced the Finance (No. 2) Bill, 2009 in the Lok Sabha on the 6th of
> July, 2009. Clause 112 of the Finance (No. 2) Bill, 2009 covers all the
> changes relating to Chapter V of Finance Act, 1994. Changes are also being
> proposed in the provisions of the, -
xxxxxx
3\. Alteration in the scope of existing taxable services : The following
alteration/modifications have been done in the existing taxable services.
These changes would come into effect from a date to be notified after the
enactment of the Finance (No. 2) Bill, 2009.
3.1 Modification in Business Auxiliary Service (BAS) [section 65(19)] :- It
may be recalled that production or processing of goods for or on behalf of a
client falls within the purview of this service. However, if any such activity
amounts to manufacture within the meaning of section 2(f) of the Central
Excise Act, the same is excluded from its purview. This exclusion has been
modified to state that it would apply only if the activity results in
manufacture of 'excisable goods'. Both the words/phrases i.e. 'manufacture'
and 'excisable goods' would have the same meaning as defined under the Central
Excise Act. The impact of this change would be that even if a process of
manufacture is undertaken for the client, but the resultant product does not
fall under the category of excisable goods, such as alcoholic beverages, the
service tax would be attracted. Certain other goods which would also fall
under BAS on account of the proposed change would be kept outside the tax net
by way of exemption notification, to be issued at the appropriate time."
16\. We find force in the argument of the revenue. After the amendment to the
definition of Business Auxiliary Service with effect from 1/9/2009, the
activity of manufacture of non-excisable goods, that is alcoholic beverages,
would fall within the scope of Business Auxiliary Service. This receives
support from the judgement of Millenium Beer-ST 88407 2014  17 Hon'ble Delhi
High Court where under the constitutional vires of levy of service tax on the
activity of brewing/bottling undertaken by independent bottling/brewing
Manufacturers of alcoholic beverages for their clients, has been held to be
constitutionally valid. Therefore, it can safely be concluded that the
activity of manufacture of alcoholic beverages, being not an excisable goods,
accordingly, does not fall within the exclusion clause of the amended
definition of Business Auxiliary Services. Consequently, the CBEC Circular No.
249/1/2006-CX-4 dt. 27.10.2008 issued clarifying the applicability of un-
amended definition of Business Auxiliary Service, hence is not relevant to the
facts of the present case.
17\. The next vital argument advanced on behalf of the appellant is that the
activity undertaken by them does not come within the scope of the clause (v),
that is, [(v) production or processing of goods for, or on behalf of, the
client;]
18\. It is their contention that the beer is manufactured by them using their
own raw materials, manpower, infrastructure and it is sold by them against
consideration to the buyers under a separate contract, on payment of
appropriate sales Tax/VAT, hence, the production and manufacture of beer is on
their own account and not for or on behalf of M/s UBL, merely because of the
fact that they affix the brand name belonging to M/s UBL. In support of their
argument, they heavily relied upon the judgement of the Hon'ble Supreme Court
in Cibatul Ltd.'s case, Delhi High Court judgement in Poona Bottling Co.
Ltd.'s case, later upheld by the Hon'ble Supreme Court and other case laws on
similar line.
Millenium Beer-ST 88407 2014  18
19\. In order to examine the said contention, it is quite essential to analyze
the arrangement/agreement between the Appellant and M/s SKOL through the
agreement dt.01.4.2005. In the recital of Agreement the intention and purpose
behind such agreement has been spelt out in clear terms; it is M/s UBL who was
on the lookout for reliable brewer for manufacturing and bottling beer in
various territories. Under Clause 5.9 of the agreement, it is made clear that
the Appellant was manufacturing and disposing UBL's beer to State Beverages
Corporation / State regulated Depots or to the wholesellers, indentors holding
necessary permit licences under the relevant Excise law and who are authorized
to purchase/sale. beer in terms of relevant regulation upon their placing
purchase orders/indents on the brewer. Clause 6 which makes it clear that the
manufacture is for and behalf M/s UBL reads as follows:-
> 6\. Quantity 6.1 Brewer shall manufacture and dispose off 9,60,000 cases of
> beer per annum on behalf of UBL. 3,60,000 cases from Aurangabad Brewery and
> 6,00,000 cases from Dharuhera Brewery.
Clause 9.4.5 which reads as follows:
> In the event of expiration or termination of this Agreement, BREWER shall
> immediately return to UBL any written embodiments and sell at cost Raw
> Materials, plates, labels, packaging materials etc and specifications for
> brewing and packaging UBL beer and shall not howsoever make use of the same
> after termination or expiration. UBL shall take over the entire stock of all
> unused labels, unfinished goods, semi-finished goods in process or at landed
> cost in exchange of cost of such returnable goods.
20\. Analysing the aforesaid stipulations, it reveals that the intention of
the parties is to enter into a contract of manufacturing and sale arrangement
for the production and sale of branded beer as per the quality and quantity
prescribed by M/s UBL and the appellant Millenium Beer-ST 88407 2014  19
accepts to produce, bottle and dispatch the beer to M/s UBL and/or to its
indenters.
21\. The sum and substance of the said agreement is that the Appellant was to
procure raw materials, packing materials, lables, chemicals, consumables,
manufacture using its own infrastructure, manpower in accordance with the
specifications and standards, affix the brand name belonging to M/s UBL under
the strict supervision of M/s UBL, maintain the quality and standard; the
price of the branded beer would be determined by M/s UBL and the goods were to
be sold only under the instructions of M/s UBL to the customers/indenters as
may be directed.
22\. The Revenue's contention, on the other hand is that the conditions of
arrangement between the Appellant M/s UBL is that of production of goods for,
or on behalf of M/s UBL.
23\. In response, the contention of the learned Advocate for the Appellant
referring to the judgment of Hon'ble Supreme Court in Cibatul Ltd.'s case
(supra), is that the buyer in the said case could not be designated as a
'manufacturer' of the goods for and on behalf of the seller merely because the
same were manufactured bearing brand name of the seller-supplier and out of
raw materials and joint manufacturing programme drawn by the buyer and the
seller.
24\. In the said case the facts in brief are that M/s Cibatul Ltd (the seller)
had entered into an agreement with M/s Ciba Geigy of India Ltd.(the buyer) on
24.07.1971 under which the products, namely, Millenium Beer-ST 88407 2014  20
UF resins and MF resins were to be manufactured by the seller in accordance
with the manufacturing programme drawn up jointly by seller and the buyer. The
Resins were to be manufactured in accordance with the restrictions and
specifications constituting buyer's standards and they were supplied at the
prices agreed upon between the sellers and the buyers from time to time. The
buyer was entitled to test a sample of each batch of these goods and it was
only after approval by the buyers the goods were released for sale to the
buyers. The buyer, who obtained trademarks from its foreign company,
authorised the seller to affix the trade mark and the seller was to do so "as
an agent" for and on behalf of the buyer and not on his own account. The
Respondents M/s Cibatul Limited filed price list declaring the wholesale
prices of the manufactured goods. The Assistant Collector revised the
wholesale prices upward on the basis of wholesale prices at which the buyer
sold the products in the market. The question before Hon'ble Supreme Court was
whether the wholesale price of the goods at which it was sold by the seller to
the buyer for assessment or the price at which the buyer sold the goods in
wholesale in the market be adopted for the purpose of assessment. In these
circumstances, the Hon'ble Supreme Court has held that the goods were
manufactured by the seller M/s Cibatul Ltd. on his own account and not on
behalf of the buyer, hence, the whole sale price at which it was cleared/sold
to the buyer M/s Ciba Geigy Ltd. be relevant for excise duty purpose.
25\. In Poona Bottling's case, the petitioner was manufacturing and bottling
of soft drinks like Gold Spot, Limca, Thums up etc. They are Millenium Beer-ST
88407 2014  21 registered with the Central Excise Department for the purpose
of manufacturing the said soft drinks and installed the bottling plant by an
investment of about Rs.40 lakhs. For the manufacturing of soft drinks it has
to purchase numerous articles such as bottles, crown corks, sugar, citric acid
etc. Besides these, it also purchased essence from M/s Parle under franchise
agreement dt.25.07.1977 and 27.02.1978. The issue was whether because of
franchise agreement between the petitioner and M/s Parle, it would be
construed that the petitioner deemed to have been manufacturing the soft
drinks for and on behalf of M/s Parle. By virtue of Notification No.No.211/77
dt.4.7.1977 a manufacturer of aerated waters allowed partial exemption from
duty, not exceeding fifty lakh bottles for home consumption by or on behalf of
a manufacturer from one or more factories during any financial year subsequent
to 1977-78 and for such clearances not exceeding thirty seven lakh bottles
during the period commencing from July 4, 1977 and ending till March 31,
1978.Analyzing the franchise agreement and the provisions of Contract Act, the
Hon'ble High Court has held that the petitioner are the manufacturers of soft
drinks and not M/s Parle who was not issued with demand notice for exceeding
the prescribed limit while allowing the exemption from excise duty.
26\. We do not find relevance of the principle laid down in the aforesaid
judgments, inasmuch as the question involved in these cases for determination
as to who was the manufacturer within the provisions of Central Excise Act for
the propose of valuation in Cibatul Ltd.'s case and eligibility of exemption
Notification in Poona Millenium Beer-ST 88407 2014  22 Bottling Ltd.'s case.
In the present case, the levy is on rendering of services, in contrast to the
aforesaid cases, where the taxable event is on the manufacture of goods and
liability to discharge the duty is on the manufacturer of goods. Further, the
question in the instant case is neither the assessment of beer, nor who the
manufacturer is, but it is the service rendered by the Appellant in the
production of the beer to cater to the marketing needs of M/s SKOL. Therefore,
the ratio laid down in the aforesaid judgments cannot be made applicable to
the present case.
27\. It is the contention of the Appellant that in any service, consideration
flows from the service receiver to the service provider, whereas in the
present case, the appellants paid Rs.5/- per case to M/s UBL, and M/s UBL paid
service tax under the category of IPR service on the said amount, hence, it is
not a service. At the first blush the argument sounds quite attractive but on
deeper analysis will not sustain. The reason for not discharging service tax
under Business Auxiliary Services as the amount paid by the Appellant to M/s
UBL suffered service tax in the hands of M/s UBL cannot be a valid ground. It
is the agreement/arrangement that determines the liability. The
arrangement/agreement for manufacture and sale of branded alcoholic beverages
between the appellant and M/s UBL is a complex one; even though the appellant
is authorised to sale the manufactured branded beer in the local market, but
the customers/indenters are as per the instruction of M/s UBL; the sale price
is fixed by M/s UBL after mutual consultation. Thus it is not a simple
provision of service agreement, where under, the service is Millenium Beer-ST
88407 2014  23 flown from appellant to M/s UBL and the consideration is
received against the service rendered. It is the argument advanced on behalf
of the revenue that the service charges are adjusted against the sale price,
and the balance amount returned to the service receiver out of the sale
proceeds of manufactured branded beer for and on behalf M/s UBL. Thus, in
determining the taxable value, in the present circumstances, Notification
39/2009 ST dt. 23.9.2009 has been issued, allowing deductions on the value of
inputs used in the manufacture/processing of alcoholic beverages, subject to
the conditions laid down there under. The said Notification reads as:
> Business Auxiliary Services -- Exemption to value of inputs used for
> providing taxable service during manufacture/processing of alcoholic
> beverages In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section
> 93 of the Finance Act, 1994 (32 of 1994) (hereinafter referred to as the
> Finance Act), the Central Government, on being satisfied that it is
> necessary in the public interest so to do, hereby exempts the taxable
> service specified in sub-clause (zzb) of clause 105 of section 65 of the
> Finance Act, provided by a person (hereinafter called the 'service
> provider') to any other person (hereinafter called the 'service receiver')
> during the course of manufacture or processing of alcoholic beverages by the
> service provider, for or on behalf of the service receiver, from so much of
> value which is equivalent to the value of inputs, excluding capital goods,
> used for providing the same service, subject to the following conditions,
> namely :-
> (a) that no Cenvat credit has been taken under the provisions of the Cenvat
> Credit Rules, 2004;
> (b) that there is documentary proof specifically indicating the value of
> such inputs; and
> (c) where the service provider also manufactures or processes alcoholic
> beverages, on his or her own account or in a manner or under an arrangement
> other than as mentioned aforesaid, he or she shall maintain separate
> accounts of receipt, production, inventory, despatches of goods as well as
> financial transactions relating thereto.
> 2\. This notification shall come into force on the date of publication in
> the Gazette of India.
> Explanation.- For the purposes of this notification, the words or phrase
> 'input', or as the case may be, 'capital goods' shall have the meaning as is
> assigned to them under rule 2 of the Cenvat Credit Rules, 2004.
> Millenium Beer-ST 88407 2014  24 [Notification No. 39/2009-S.T., dated
> 23-9-2009]
28\. Therefore, the value of the services needs to be determined keeping in
mind the aforesaid notification and the principles of valuation prescribed
under Section 67 of the Finance Act and the Valuation Rules, 2006. The
Adjudicating authority has erred in adopting the sale price of the Appellant.
29\. The next issue for determination is the date of amalgamation/ merger of
the Appellant's unit with M/s United Breweries Ltd. In the scheme of
arrangement as per the direction of BIFR for amalgamation of the Appellant's
brewery division with M/s United Breweries Ltd., the appointed date and the
effective date have been defined under Definition Clause 1.2 & 1.4 of the said
scheme, respectively, as follows:-
> 1.2 "Appointed Date" means the 1st day of April 2010 or such other date as
> may be approved by the BIFR.
> 1.4 "Effective Date" means the date of filing of the certified copies of the
> BIFR Order with the Registrar of Companies, Bangalore.
In Clause 2 of the said arrangement, it is mentioned as:
> 2\. Date of Taking Effect and operative date:
> The scheme shall be deemed to be effective from the appointed date, but
> shall be operative from the Effective date.
30\. The BIFR sanctioned the said Scheme on 11.11.2011 and copy of said Order
filed with Registrar of Companies 0n 16.11.2011. It is the contention of the
Appellant that the appointed date Millenium Beer-ST 88407 2014  25
i.e.01.04.2010 as mentioned in the scheme be considered as deemed date of
merger/amalgamation of the Appellant Company and not the effective date,
whereas Revenue's contention is that the scheme of amalgamation would come
into force only on submission of the BIFR order and receipt of new certificate
of incorporation from the Registrar of Companies, i.e. 16.11.2011. as per
clause 18 of the scheme dealing with conditionality of the Scheme.
31\. The learned Advocate, in support of their contention that the appointed
date be considered as the date of merger/amalgamation the Appellant's Unit
with M/s UBL, placed reliance on the judgment of Hon'ble Supreme Court in the
case of Marshal & Sons & Co India Ltd Vs ITO (1997) 2SCC 302, CIT Vs. Swastic
Rubber Products Ltd, 1983 (140) ITR 304 (Bom.), State of Andhra Pradesh Vs
Jindal Strips,(2007) 10VST 777; Usha International Ltd. Vs CCE 2016 (43)STR
552 (Tri.-Del), CIT Kanpur Vs Reliance Media Works Ltd.(2017) 394 ITR427;
Gujrat High Court Order dt. 16.7.2012 in Cadilla Healthcare Ltd Vs
Dy.Commissioner of Sales Tax., National Organic Chemical Industries Ltd Vs
State of Maharashtra 2004 (135) STC (Bom).
32\. The learned A.R. for the Revenue, on the other hand, submitted that the
Appellant had not brought to the notice of the Department about the fact of
amalgamation scheme presented to BIFR. The Registration Certificate was
amended only on 05.12.2012. Therefore, the merger/amalgamation cannot be
01.4.2010. In support, he has referred to the judgment of Shaw Wallace
Distilleries Millenium Beer-ST 88407 2014  26 Ltd case. Further, the learned
A.R., referring to the judgment of Hon'ble Gujarat High Court in the case of
M/s Indus Tower Ltd Vs State of Gujarat - 2017-TIOL-1845-HC-AHM-VAT, has
submitted that the liability of service tax for the services rendered by the
Appellant till the effective date cannot be obliterated merely because of the
fact that amalgamation was deemed to have been effected from the appointed
date.
33\. The principle in this regard have been considered in the context of
Income Tax Act,1961 by Hon'ble Supreme Court in Marshal & Sons Co. India
Ltd.'s case(supra). Their Lordships at Para 14, observed as follows:-
> "14. Every scheme of amalgamation has to necessarily provide a date with
> effect from which the amalgamation/transfer shall take place. The scheme
> concerned herein does so provide viz. 1.1.1982. it is true that while
> sanctioning the scheme, it is open to the Court to modify the said date and
> prescribe such date of amalgamation/transfer as it thinks appropriate in the
> facts and circumstances of the case. If the Court so specifies a date, there
> is little doubt that such date would be the date of amalgamation/date of
> transfer. But where the Court does not prescribe any specific date but
> merely sanction sanctions the scheme prescribed to it - as has happened in
> this case - it should follow that the date of amalgamation/date of transfer
> is the date specified in the scheme as "the transfer date". It cannot be
> otherwise. It must be remembered that before applying to the Court under
> Section 391(1), a scheme has to be framed and such scheme has to contain a
> date of amalgamation/transfer. The proceedings before the Court may take
> some time; indeed, they are bound to take some time because several steps
> provided by Sections 391 and 394-A and the relevant Rules have to be
> followed and complied with. During the period the proceedings are pending
> before the Court, both the amalgamating units, i.e. the Transferor Company
> and the Transferee Company may carry on business, as has happened in this
> case but normally provision is made for this aspect also in the scheme of
> amalgamation. In the scheme before us, clause 6(b) does expressly provide
> that with effect from the transfer date, the Transferor Company (Subsidiary
> Company) shall be deemed to have carried on the business for and on behalf
> of the Transferee Company (Holding Company) with all attendant consequences.
> It is equally relevant to Millenium Beer-ST 88407 2014  27 notice that the
> courts have not only sanctioned the scheme in this case but have also not
> specified any other date as the date of transfer/amalgamation. In such a
> situation, it would not be reasonable to say that the scheme of amalgamation
> takes effect on and from the date of the order sanctioning the scheme. We
> are, therefore, of the opinion that the notices issued by the Income Tax
> Officer (impugned in the writ petition) were not warranted in law. The
> business carried on by the Transferor Company (Subsidiary Company) should be
> deemed to have been carried on for and on behalf of the Transferee Company.
> This is the necessary and the logical consequence of the Court sanctioning
> the scheme of amalgamation as presented to it. The order of the Court
> sanctioning the scheme, the filing of the certified copies of the orders of
> the Court before the Registrar of Companies, the allotment of shares etc may
> have all taken place subsequent to the date of amalgamation/ transfer, yet
> the date of amalgamation in the circumstances of this case would be
> 1.1.1982. This is also the ratio of the decision of the Privy Council in
> Raghubar Dayal Vs Bank of Upper India Ltd."
34\. The Hon'ble Andhra Pradesh High Court in Jindal Strips Ltd.'s case, while
considering the issue whether the merger of two companies was w.e.f.
01.04.1995 or from the effective date i.e. 19.09.1996, for the purpose of
demand of sales tax/VAT, following the ratio laid down by Hon'ble Supreme
Court in Marshal Sons & Co.'s case, held that while approving the scheme if
the Court has not fixed any specific date as the effective date, then the date
agreed upon by the parties would be the effective date of amalgamation.
35\. This Tribunal in the case of ITC Hotels Ltd.'s case (supra) was
confronted with the question whether the amalgamation of M/s ITC Hotels Ltd
and M/s Ansal Hotels Ltd with the parent company M/s ITC Ltd. was as on
01.04.2004, i.e. the appointed date as per the Amalgamation scheme duly
approved by the Hon'ble High Courts or the effective date of amalgamation,
when the application filed with Registrar of companies that is 23.03.2005.
Following the judgment of Hon'ble Supreme Court in Marshall Sons & Co. Ltd.'s
case, it is Millenium Beer-ST 88407 2014  28 held that the date of
amalgamation would be the 'appointed date' presented in the scheme. Further,
the Tribunal has observed that even though the said judgment was delivered in
the context of Income Tax law, but binding relating to the issues arising
under Central Excise Act or under Chapter V of Finance Act, 1994.It is
observed as:
> "10. The law declared by the Apex Court is binding and is required to be
> followed. The submission of the learned DR that the ratio of the above
> judgment given in the context of income tax would not be applicable to the
> facts of the present case as there is no specific provision to that effect
> under the Central Excise Act or under the Chapter V of the Finance Act, 1994
> cannot be appreciated inasmuch as the law declared by the Supreme Court is
> binding on all the Courts, in terms of the Article 141 of the Indian
> Constitution. The Hon'ble High Court of Delhi and the Kolkata having held
> the date of amalgamation as 1-4-2004 has to be considered as the correct
> date of amalgamation. If that be so, admittedly, the appellant cannot be
> held to be providing services to itself. The Tribunal in the case of Precot
> Mills - 2006- TIOL-818-CESTAT-BANG. = 2006 (2) S.T.R. 495 (Tri.-Bang.), has
> held that for leviability of service tax, there should be a service provider
> and a service receiver. No one renders service oneself, as such, there can
> be no question of leviability of service tax. Having held that the
> amalgamation is effective from 1-4-2004, the service provided by the
> respondent has to be considered as provided to himself, in which case, no
> service tax would arise against them. The order of the Commissioner cannot
> be faulted upon on this ground. At this stage, we may take into
> consideration the learned DR's reference to clause 7 of the scheme of
> amalgamation which is as follows :
> "7. Savings of concluded Transactions : The transfer of the undertaking of
> the Transferor Companies under clause 4 above, the continuance of the
> proceedings under clause 5 above and the effectiveness of contacts and deeds
> under clause 6 above, shall not effect any transaction or the proceeding
> already concluded by the transferor companies on or before the effective
> date and shall be deemed to have been done and executed on behalf of the
> Transferee Company."
> By referring to the above clause, the contention of the learned DR is that
> any transaction or proceeding conducted by the transferor company on or
> before the effective date will not be affected by the scheme of
> amalgamation. However, we find that such clause stands incorrectly
> interpreted by the learned DR. A reading of the above clause is reflective
> of the fact that the action of the transferor company on or before the
> effective date shall be deemed to have been done and executed on behalf of
> the transferee company. As such, it is clear that the said clause supports
> the respondent's stand that any business conducted by the respondents is to
> be held as having been conducted on behalf of the transferee company. As
> such, the service tax provided to the ITC Ltd. and Ansal Hotels Ltd. have to
> be considered as having been provided on behalf of the transferee company
> viz. ITC. Ltd., in which case, no service tax liability would arise against
> the service provider."
> Millenium Beer-ST 88407 2014  29
> 36\. Subsequently, this Tribunal, in Usha International Ltd.'s case, have
> considered all the aforesaid three judgments. The facts leading to the issue
> before the Tribunal was that a refund claim of Rs.84,76,586/- of service tax
> paid on royalty paid by the transferee company Usha International Ltd to M/s
> Joy Engineering Ltd, the transferor Company was filed on the basis of High
> Court's order dt.26.05.2008 approving the merger w.e.f. 01.04.2007 being the
> appointed date. This Tribunal, applying the principle laid down in Marshall
> Sons & Co. and that of Jindal Strips Ltd, held as follows:-
> "7. In the light of the foregoing binding precedents there remains no scope
> for any debate that the date of amalgamation in the present case is to be
> held to be 1-4-2007 and not 20-6-2008. Obvious consequence of this is that
> the service rendered during the impugned period (1-4-2007 to 31-3-2008)
> became service to self and consequently service tax paid during the said
> period became eligible for refund.
> ......................................................................................."
> 37\. Revenue has referred to the judgment of Hon'ble Patna High Court in
> Tata Iron & Steel Co. Ltd's case. In the said case, there was
> merger/amalgamation of its subsidiary M/s Indian Tube Co. Ltd with the
> holding company i.e M/s Tata Iron & Steel Co. Ltd. The issue before the
> Court was what pay scale, dearness allowance and other benefits the
> employees are entitled and from which the same shall be given to them. The
> Tube company merged with Tata Iron & Steel Co. Ltd with effect from 1.4
> 1983, the appointed date, where as the Bombay High Court and Calcutta High
> Court had passed the Order on 15.5.1985 and the copy of the Orders were
> filed with the Registrar of Companies on 01.9.1985 and the scheme of
> amalgamation became effective from 01.10.1985 . Taking note of the clauses
> relating to the effective date of operation of the scheme Millenium Beer-ST
> 88407 2014  30 vis--vis clause 7 of the scheme which provides that the
> transferee company shall give a general notice of offer to the date
> preceding the effecting date offering employment to all the employees of the
> transferor company, the Hon'ble Patna High Court held that for the said
> purpose, the effective date would be considered for transfer of employees
> from the transferee company to transferor company as 01.10.1985. We do not
> find any relevance of the said judgment to the facts of the present case.
38\. The revenue has further argued that since the service tax was payable on
the services rendered by the appellant to M/s UBL from 1/4/2010 to 15/11/2011,
the said liability cannot be extinguished because of merger deemed to have
been applicable from the appointed date. In support, they referred to the
recent judgment of Hon'ble Gujarat High Court in Indus Tower Ltd.'s case. In
the said case a writ petition was filed under Article 226 of Constitution of
India with a prayer seeking declaration of Section 52 of GVAT Act 2003 as
ultra vires to the Constitution of India. Their Lordships, distinguishing the
judgment of Hon'ble Supreme Court in Marshall Sons & Co. Ltd case, observed as
follows:-
> "21. The decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Marshall Sons
> & Company Limited V. ITO (supra) is concerned, their cannot be any dispute
> with respect to the proposition of law laid down by the Apex Court, however,
> the same shall not be applicable to the facts of the case on hand; more
> particularly, considering Section 52 of the GVAT Act. As observed
> hereinabove, neither Section 52 of the GVAT Act cannot be said to be an
> encroachment upon the powers of the Union Legislation, as envisaged under
> Section 246 of the Constitution nor the same can be said to be in conflict
> with the provisions of the Companies Act, 1956. Therefore, the decision of
> Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of State of West Bengal &Ors Vs Committee
> for Protection of Democratic Rights, West Bengal &Ors. (supra) as well as
> UCO Bank &Ors. Vs Dipak Millenium Beer-ST 88407 2014  31 Debbarma & Ors.
> (supra) relied upon by the learned Counsel for the petitioners shall not be
> of any assistance to the petitioners. As observed hereinabove, both the Acts
> operate in different fields and with respect to different eventualities.
> Therefore, considering the pith and substance of Section 52 of the GVAT Act,
> it cannot be said to be in conflict with the Union Legislation."
39\. Consequently, upholding the constitutional vires Section 62 of GVAT Act,
2003, their Lordships observed as follows:-
> "28. In view of the above and for the reasons afore stated, it is held that
> Section 52 of the Gujarat Value Added Tax Act cannot be said to be beyond
> legislative competence, and therefore, the same cannot be said to be ultra
> vires to Article 246 & 252 of the Constitution of India. It is held that
> Section 52 of the GVAT Act is within the State legislative competence under
> Entry 52 of List II of Seventh Schedule and the same cannot be said to be
> encroaching upon the powers of the Union legislation. Therefore, challenge
> to the constitutional validity of Section 2 (23) (d) and 52 of the to the
> GVAT Act fails."
40\. We do not find any relevance to the present case as no such enactment has
been passed validating levy of collection of service tax under the Finance
Act,1994 similar to that of Sec.52 of GVAT Act. Therefore, the 'appointed
date' i.e. as on 01.4.2010 be taken as the date of amalgamation/merger of the
Appellant Unit with M/s UBL as sanctioned by the BIFR.
41\. On the issue of limitation, the learned Advocate for the Appellant has
submitted that the demand notices were issued invoking extended period of
limitation when there is no willful suppression of facts about the
manufacturing and selling of branded beer under the agreement dt.01.04.2005
with M/s UBL, particularly when the consideration was paid by them @ Rs.5/-
per case for use of M/s UBL's brand name reflected in the same agreement on
which Millenium Beer-ST 88407 2014  32 M/s UBL has paid service tax under the
taxable category of IPR. He has further submitted that during the period in
question, there was confusion in the law; as per the Circular dt.27.10.2008
they were not required to discharge service tax on the activity carried out by
them. Hence, invoking extended period of limitation alleging suppression of
facts is untenable in law. Revenue's contention on the other hand is that even
though the amendment was made to the definition of Business Auxiliary Service
w.e.f. 1.9.2009. Circular was issued in this regard by the Board for knowledge
of the trade about the liability to discharge service tax, on the said service
clarifying the position after amendment. In the self assessment era they are
required to pay duty correctly and the Appellant cannot claim bonafide in not
discharging as at no point of time they have disclosed to the Department about
manufacturing or processing of alcoholic beverages for and on behalf of M/s
UBL.
42\. There is no dispute of the fact that on the same agreement dt.01.04.2005,
the consideration of Rs.5/- per case has been paid to M/s UBL by the
Appellant, and applicable service tax was paid under the taxable category of
Intellectual Property Right by M/s UBL. Thus, the arrangement between the
Appellant and M/s UBL for manufacture of branded beer on behalf of M/s UBL has
been disclosed and within the knowledge of the Department. In these
circumstances, the allegation of suppression cannot be sustained against the
Appellant. Therefore, the demand is barred by limitation.
Millenium Beer-ST 88407 2014  33
43\. We summarize are finding as follows:
> (i) During the relevant period, the Appellant had rendered services to M/s
> United Breweris Ltd, falling under the amended definition of "Business
> Auxiliary Service" as laid down under Section 65 (19) of Finance Act, 1994
> and the computation of demand ought to have been carried out taking note of
> Notification No.39/2009, dt.23.03.2009.
> (ii) The appointed date in the scheme of amalgamation i.e. 01.04.2010 as
> approved by BIFR be considered as the date for considering the service tax
> liability and not the effective date when the certificate of incorporation
> was issued by the Registrar of Companies i.e. 16.11.2011.
(iii) Demand is barred by limitation.
44\. In view of the above, the impugned order is set aside and the appeal is
allowed.
(Order pronounced in the open court on 11.07.2019 ) (D.M. Misra) Member
(Judicial) (Sanjeev Srivastava) Member (Technical) Bahalkar
Appellant and M/s UBL for manufacture of branded beer on behalf of M/s UBL has
been disclosed and within the knowledge of the Department. In these
circumstances, the allegation of suppression cannot be sustained against the
Appellant. Therefore, the demand is barred by limitation.
Millenium Beer-ST 88407 2014  33
43\. We summarize are finding as follows:
> (i) During the relevant period, the Appellant had rendered services to M/s
> United Breweris Ltd, falling under the amended definition of "Business
> Auxiliary Service" as laid down under Section 65 (19) of Finance Act, 1994
> and the computation of demand ought to have been carried out taking note of
> Notification No.39/2009, dt.23.03.2009.
> (ii) The appointed date in the scheme of amalgamation i.e. 01.04.2010 as
> approved by BIFR be considered as the date for considering the service tax
> liability and not the effective date when the certificate of incorporation
> was issued by the Registrar of Companies i.e. 16.11.2011.
(iii) Demand is barred by limitation.
    CORAM:
    HON'BLE DR. D.M. MISRA, MEMBER (JUDICIAL)
    HON'BLE MR. SANJEEV SRIVASTAVA, MEMBER (TECHNICAL)
                     FINAL ORDER NO. A/86241 / 2019
                                                Date of Hearing: 15.01.2019
                                                Date of Decision: 11.07.2019
    PER: D.M. MISRA
          This      appeal       is     filed    against       Order-in-Original
    No.21/ST/COMMR/2014, dt.30.04.2014, passed by the CCE & ST,
    Aurangabad.
    2.    Briefly stated the facts of the case are that the Appellants,
    during the period 23.09.2009 to 15.11.2011, on the basis of an
    Agreement/Contract         dt.01.04.2005    entered     with    M/s    United
    Beverages Ltd (UBL) manufactured and sold alcoholic beverages to
    the customers/indenters of UBL as per the instruction of UBL.
    Alleging that the said activity is classifiable under the taxable
                                                        Millenium Beer-ST 88407 2014
                                      2
    category of Business Auxiliary Service, as amended w.e.f 01.9.2009
    and since they failed to discharge service tax of Rs.21,92,03,724/-
Appellant and M/s UBL for manufacture of branded beer on behalf of M/s UBL has
been disclosed and within the knowledge of the Department. In these
circumstances, the allegation of suppression cannot be sustained against the
Appellant. Therefore, the demand is barred by limitation.
Millenium Beer-ST 88407 2014  33
43\. We summarize are finding as follows:
> (i) During the relevant period, the Appellant had rendered services to M/s
> United Breweris Ltd, falling under the amended definition of "Business
> Auxiliary Service" as laid down under Section 65 (19) of Finance Act, 1994
> and the computation of demand ought to have been carried out taking note of
> Notification No.39/2009, dt.23.03.2009.
> (ii) The appointed date in the scheme of amalgamation i.e. 01.04.2010 as
> approved by BIFR be considered as the date for considering the service tax
> liability and not the effective date when the certificate of incorporation
> was issued by the Registrar of Companies i.e. 16.11.2011.
(iii) Demand is barred by limitation.
    CORAM:
    HON'BLE DR. D.M. MISRA, MEMBER (JUDICIAL)
    HON'BLE MR. SANJEEV SRIVASTAVA, MEMBER (TECHNICAL)
                     FINAL ORDER NO. A/86241 / 2019
                                                Date of Hearing: 15.01.2019
                                                Date of Decision: 11.07.2019
    PER: D.M. MISRA
          This      appeal       is     filed    against       Order-in-Original
    No.21/ST/COMMR/2014, dt.30.04.2014, passed by the CCE & ST,
    Aurangabad.
    2.    Briefly stated the facts of the case are that the Appellants,
    during the period 23.09.2009 to 15.11.2011, on the basis of an
    Agreement/Contract         dt.01.04.2005    entered     with    M/s    United
    Beverages Ltd (UBL) manufactured and sold alcoholic beverages to
    the customers/indenters of UBL as per the instruction of UBL.
    Alleging that the said activity is classifiable under the taxable
                                                        Millenium Beer-ST 88407 2014
                                      2
    category of Business Auxiliary Service, as amended w.e.f 01.9.2009
    and since they failed to discharge service tax of Rs.21,92,03,724/-
Appellant and M/s UBL for manufacture of branded beer on behalf of M/s UBL has
been disclosed and within the knowledge of the Department. In these
circumstances, the allegation of suppression cannot be sustained against the
Appellant. Therefore, the demand is barred by limitation.
Millenium Beer-ST 88407 2014  33
43\. We summarize are finding as follows:
> (i) During the relevant period, the Appellant had rendered services to M/s
> United Breweris Ltd, falling under the amended definition of "Business
> Auxiliary Service" as laid down under Section 65 (19) of Finance Act, 1994
> and the computation of demand ought to have been carried out taking note of
> Notification No.39/2009, dt.23.03.2009.
> (ii) The appointed date in the scheme of amalgamation i.e. 01.04.2010 as
> approved by BIFR be considered as the date for considering the service tax
> liability and not the effective date when the certificate of incorporation
> was issued by the Registrar of Companies i.e. 16.11.2011.
(iii) Demand is barred by limitation.
    CORAM:
    HON'BLE DR. D.M. MISRA, MEMBER (JUDICIAL)
    HON'BLE MR. SANJEEV SRIVASTAVA, MEMBER (TECHNICAL)
                     FINAL ORDER NO. A/86241 / 2019
                                                Date of Hearing: 15.01.2019
                                                Date of Decision: 11.07.2019
    PER: D.M. MISRA
          This      appeal       is     filed    against       Order-in-Original
    No.21/ST/COMMR/2014, dt.30.04.2014, passed by the CCE & ST,
    Aurangabad.
    2.    Briefly stated the facts of the case are that the Appellants,
    during the period 23.09.2009 to 15.11.2011, on the basis of an
    Agreement/Contract         dt.01.04.2005    entered     with    M/s    United
    Beverages Ltd (UBL) manufactured and sold alcoholic beverages to
    the customers/indenters of UBL as per the instruction of UBL.
    Alleging that the said activity is classifiable under the taxable
                                                        Millenium Beer-ST 88407 2014
                                      2
    category of Business Auxiliary Service, as amended w.e.f 01.9.2009
    and since they failed to discharge service tax of Rs.21,92,03,724/-
    during the said period    demand notice was issued to them on
    19.12.2012 for recovery of the said amount along with interest and
    penalty. On adjudication, the demand was confirmed with interest
    and penalty. Hence, the present appeal.
    3.   The learned Advocate Shri Anil Malani for the Appellant has
    submitted that by brewing agreement between the Appellant and
    M/s UBL dt.01.04.2005 and further amended by the agreement
    dt.02.03.2009, M/s UBL being owner of 'King Fisher' and 'London
    Pilsner Brands' permitted the Appellant to manufacture and sell the
    branded   beer.   Under    the   said     agreement,    UBL        granted
    non-assignable, non-transferable and non-exhaustive rights to the
Appellant and M/s UBL for manufacture of branded beer on behalf of M/s UBL has
been disclosed and within the knowledge of the Department. In these
circumstances, the allegation of suppression cannot be sustained against the
Appellant. Therefore, the demand is barred by limitation.
Millenium Beer-ST 88407 2014  33
43\. We summarize are finding as follows:
> (i) During the relevant period, the Appellant had rendered services to M/s
> United Breweris Ltd, falling under the amended definition of "Business
> Auxiliary Service" as laid down under Section 65 (19) of Finance Act, 1994
> and the computation of demand ought to have been carried out taking note of
> Notification No.39/2009, dt.23.03.2009.
> (ii) The appointed date in the scheme of amalgamation i.e. 01.04.2010 as
> approved by BIFR be considered as the date for considering the service tax
> liability and not the effective date when the certificate of incorporation
> was issued by the Registrar of Companies i.e. 16.11.2011.
(iii) Demand is barred by limitation.
    CORAM:
    HON'BLE DR. D.M. MISRA, MEMBER (JUDICIAL)
    HON'BLE MR. SANJEEV SRIVASTAVA, MEMBER (TECHNICAL)
                     FINAL ORDER NO. A/86241 / 2019
                                                Date of Hearing: 15.01.2019
                                                Date of Decision: 11.07.2019
    PER: D.M. MISRA
          This      appeal       is     filed    against       Order-in-Original
    No.21/ST/COMMR/2014, dt.30.04.2014, passed by the CCE & ST,
    Aurangabad.
    2.    Briefly stated the facts of the case are that the Appellants,
    during the period 23.09.2009 to 15.11.2011, on the basis of an
    Agreement/Contract         dt.01.04.2005    entered     with    M/s    United
    Beverages Ltd (UBL) manufactured and sold alcoholic beverages to
    the customers/indenters of UBL as per the instruction of UBL.
    Alleging that the said activity is classifiable under the taxable
                                                        Millenium Beer-ST 88407 2014
                                      2
    category of Business Auxiliary Service, as amended w.e.f 01.9.2009
    and since they failed to discharge service tax of Rs.21,92,03,724/-
    during the said period    demand notice was issued to them on
    19.12.2012 for recovery of the said amount along with interest and
    penalty. On adjudication, the demand was confirmed with interest
    and penalty. Hence, the present appeal.
    3.   The learned Advocate Shri Anil Malani for the Appellant has
    submitted that by brewing agreement between the Appellant and
    M/s UBL dt.01.04.2005 and further amended by the agreement
    dt.02.03.2009, M/s UBL being owner of 'King Fisher' and 'London
    Pilsner Brands' permitted the Appellant to manufacture and sell the
    branded   beer.   Under    the   said     agreement,    UBL        granted
    non-assignable, non-transferable and non-exhaustive rights to the
Appellant and M/s UBL for manufacture of branded beer on behalf of M/s UBL has
been disclosed and within the knowledge of the Department. In these
circumstances, the allegation of suppression cannot be sustained against the
Appellant. Therefore, the demand is barred by limitation.
Millenium Beer-ST 88407 2014  33
43\. We summarize are finding as follows:
> (i) During the relevant period, the Appellant had rendered services to M/s
> United Breweris Ltd, falling under the amended definition of "Business
> Auxiliary Service" as laid down under Section 65 (19) of Finance Act, 1994
> and the computation of demand ought to have been carried out taking note of
> Notification No.39/2009, dt.23.03.2009.
> (ii) The appointed date in the scheme of amalgamation i.e. 01.04.2010 as
> approved by BIFR be considered as the date for considering the service tax
> liability and not the effective date when the certificate of incorporation
> was issued by the Registrar of Companies i.e. 16.11.2011.
(iii) Demand is barred by limitation.
