Delhi High Court
Star India Pvt. Ltd. vs Piyush Agarwal & Ors. on 13 March, 2013
Author: M. L. Mehta
    -*     THE HIGH COURT OF DELHI AT NEW DELHI
                                                        Date of Decision: 13.03.2013
     +                   CS (OS) No. 2722/2012
                         CS (OS) No. 3232/2012
                         CS (OS) No. 2780/2012
         1. CS (OS) No. 2722/2012 & IA 16485/2012, 19780/2012 &
           2846/2013.
         STAR INDIA PVT. LTD.                                     .......Plaintiff
                                   Through:           Mr. Parag Tripathi, Sr. Adv.
                                                      with Mr. Saikrishna Rajagopal,
                                                      Mr. Sidharth Chopra, Ms. Sneha
                                                      Jain, Advocates.
                                   Versus
         PIYUSH AGARWAL & ORS.                                    ......Defendant
                                   Through:           Mr. Sudhir Chandra, Sr. Adv.
                                                      with Ms. Gayatri Roy, Mr.
                                                      Thomas George, Mr. Udit Sood,
there is a difference between contemporaneous dissemination of match
information in the form of ball-by-ball or minute-by- minute score
updates/match alerts and reporting noteworthy information or news. In light of
the above mentioned observations, I hereby order the following:
> a. A limited interim injunction restraining the defendants from
> disseminating contemporaneous match information in the CS (OS) Nos.
> 2722/2012, 3232/2012 and 2780/2012 Page 38 of 39 form of ball-by-ball or
> minute-by-minute score updates/match alerts for a premium, without obtaining
> a license from the plaintiff.
> b. There shall be no restriction upon the defendants to report „noteworthy
> information‟ or „news‟ from cricket matches (as discussed in paragraph 49),
> as and when they arise, because „stale news is no news‟.
> c. There shall be no requirement for the license if the defendants do it
> gratuitously or after a time lag of 15 minutes.
59.In view of the above, the application of the plaintiff under Order XXXIX
Rule 1 & 2 of CPC is allowed to the extent indicated above, whereas the
                                                      Thomas George, Mr. Udit Sood,
                                                      Advs. For D1 & D2.
                                                      Mr.Amit    Sibal,    Adv.      with
                                                      Ms.Radha            Rangaswamy,
    CS (OS) Nos. 2722/2012, 3232/2012 and 2780/2012                         Page 1 of 39
                                                       Mr.Prateek Chadha, Mr.Raman
                                                      Kumar,            Advocates          for
                                                      D3/BCCI.
       2. CS (OS) No. 3232/2012 & IA 20275-78/2012 & IA 506/2013
       STAR INDIA PVT. LTD.                                             .......Plaintiff
                                   Through:           Mr. Abhishek Manu Singhvi, Sr.
                                                      Adv.       with     Mr.    Saikrishna
                                                      Rajagopal, Mr. Sidharth Chopra,
                                                      Ms. Sneha Jain, Advocates.
                                   Versus
       IDEA CELLULAR & ANR.                                             ......Respondent
                                   Through:           Mr.Rajiv Nayyar, Mr. Neeraj
                                                      Kishan Kaul, Sr. Advs. with
                                                      Mr.Navin Chawla, Ms.Sonali
                                                      Jaitley, Ms.Subha Chauhan, Ms.
                                                      Mehak       Khajuria,      Mr.Rohan
                                                      Jaitley,     Mr.Bhuvan         Mishra,
                                                      Mr.S.Qureshi, Advs. for D1.
                                                      Mr.Amit       Sibal,      Adv.     with
                                                      Ms.Radha               Rangaswamy,
    CS (OS) Nos. 2722/2012, 3232/2012 and 2780/2012                             Page 2 of 39
                                                       Mr.Prateek Chadha, Mr.Raman
                                                      Kumar,       Advocates            for
                                                      D2/BCCI.
       3. C.S. (O.S.) No. 2780/2012 & IA 16834/2012
       STAR INDIA PVT. LTD.                                        .......Petitioner
                                   Through:           Mr. Maninder Singh, Sr. Adv.
                                                      with Mr. Saikrishna Rajagopal,
                                                      Mr. Sidharth Chopra, Ms. Sneha
                                                      Jain, Advocates.
                                   Versus
       ONMOBILE GLOBAL LTD. & ANR.                                 ......Respondent
                                   Through:           Mr. Sanjay Jain, Sr. Adv. with
                                                      Mr. Hardeep Singh Anand, Ms.
                                                      Vandana Sehgal, Mr. Rohan
                                                      Thawani, Ms. Noor Anand, Ms.
                                                      Kriti   Singh,   Ms.    Prabsahay
                                                      Kaur, Advs. For D1.
                                                      Mr.Amit     Sibal,     Adv.     with
                                                      Ms.Radha             Rangaswamy,
                                                      Mr.Prateek Chadha, Mr.Raman
    CS (OS) Nos. 2722/2012, 3232/2012 and 2780/2012                          Page 3 of 39
                                                       Kumar,     Advocates        for
                                                      D2/BCCI.
    CORAM:
    HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE M.L. MEHTA
    M.L. MEHTA, J.
1\. The plaintiff, Star India Pvt. Ltd. (STAR), filed three cases against
Piyush Agarwal (Cricbuzz), Idea Cellular (IDEA) and OnMobile Global Ltd.
(ONMOBILE). Though the Board of Cricket Control in India (BCCI) has been
arrayed as the common defendant in all the three cases, it is supporting the
plaintiff, claiming paramount rights over all information emanating from a
cricketing event by virtue of organising and promoting the sport of cricket in
India. The common case of STAR and BCCI is that the latter, by an agreement
dated 10.08.2012, has assigned a „bouquet of rights‟ exclusively to STAR. Two
of such rights, are regarding „Mobile Rights‟ and "Mobile Activation Rights‟.
The plaintiff has sought an interim injunction against the defendants alleging
that the latter has violated those rights, which as per the agreement with
BCCI, were exclusively assigned to the plaintiff.
2\. The defendants have disputed these claims of STAR inter alia that that
there is no such right as claimed by the plaintiff. In the absence of a legal
right, the same cannot be enforced and no relief as prayed CS (OS) Nos.
2722/2012, 3232/2012 and 2780/2012 Page 4 of 39 by the plaintiff maybe granted
making the suit liable to be dismissed under Order VII Rule 11 of the Code of
Civil Procedure (CPC) for the lack of a cause of action. A brief summary of
the contentions of both parties is as follows.
3\. STAR and BCCI contend that the dissemination of match information through
live score cards, match updates and score alerts via Short Messaging Service
(SMS)/Mobile Value Added Services (MVAS), by the contesting defendants
constitutes the tort of „unfair competition‟ and „commercial
misappropriation/unjust commercial enrichment‟. It is their case that the
plaintiff spent a sum of Rs. 3581 Crores ( Rupees Three Thousand Five Hundred
and Eighty One Crores only) to successfully bid for the Media Rights Agreement
dated 10.08.2012; whereas, the defendants have neither participated in the bid
nor acquired any license from the plaintiff to disseminate any match
information. It is pertinent to note that the plaintiff is seeking a remedy in
these suits under common law, de hors the Copyright Act, 1957.
4\. The defendants contend that the plaintiff cannot seek any remedy under
common law because Section 16 of the Copyright Act, 1967 precludes the
plaintiff from claiming a copyright or any other similar right, other than
those which are provided in accordance or under the Act. Alternatively, the
defendants contend that they only publish the match information after it has
come into public domain and that the information arising from the match is
purely factual in CS (OS) Nos. 2722/2012, 3232/2012 and 2780/2012 Page 5 of 39
nature and acquires the position of news. The defendants have also submitted
that their actions do not amount to free-riding on the efforts of the
plaintiff because they neither copy the actual content of the broadcast nor
provide access to audio or visual footage of the broadcast. Alternatively, the
defendants also contend that they are exonerated under Article 19(1)(a) of the
Constitution whereby they have the freedom to carry on trade by dissemination
of information to the public and such rights can only be subject to the
reasonable restrictions under Article 19(2) and not by common law.
5\. The non-contesting defendant, BCCI has contended that as the organiser of
cricket in India, it has the exclusive rights in relation to the content
generated during a cricketing event, including the right to commercially
exploit all content arising from such event. In furtherance of this
contention, BCCI has submitted that it is a not- for-profit organisation,
registered under the Tamil Nadu Societies Registration Act, 1975. And that it
is recognized as the defacto apex body which deals with the promotion and
organisation of cricketing events in the country by the Government of India,
but it does not get any funding from the Government. And that it funds
everything relating to cricket, right from setting up of the stadium to
starting training academies for umpires, scorers etc., all by itself. The main
source of funding for the BCCI is claimed to be from monetizing the content
arising from cricket matches, such as sponsorships and commercial
advertisements. The revenue received CS (OS) Nos. 2722/2012, 3232/2012 and
2780/2012 Page 6 of 39 from the sale of match tickets is contended to be
negligible. Out of the revenue generated, BCCI contends that 85% is ploughed
back into promoting the game of cricket in India. Whereas, it contends that
the defendants do not contribute their revenue or a part thereof for the
purpose of promoting the game of cricket in India. The BCCI and the plaintiff
claim that defendants are eating away into the mobile and internet rights,
without sharing the profit gained by them; thereby indulging in unfair
competition and unjust commercial enrichment.
6\. In furtherance of this contention, the plaintiff and BCCI have primarily
relied upon the legal principle enunciated in landmark decision of the United
States Supreme Court in the case of International News Service vs. Associated
Press, 248 U.S. 215, 39 S.Ct.68 (1918) (INS Case) i.e. „he who has fairly paid
the price should have the beneficial use of the property‟. In the INS Case,
both the complainant and defendant were publishers of newspapers and were
competitors in the gathering and spreading of news. The case was filed to
restrain the pirating of complainant‟s news by the defendant, inter alia by
copying news from news bulletin boards and from early editions of
complainant‟s newspapers and selling it, either bodily or after rewriting it.
The complainants contended that they had „proprietary right‟ under common law
over all the news gathered by them, since they were employing their own means
and resources. The U.S. Supreme Court, observing that the question, CS (OS)
Nos. 2722/2012, 3232/2012 and 2780/2012 Page 7 of 39 „what is unfair
competition in business‟ must be subjectively determined in particular
reference to the character and circumstances of each business, held:
> "The defendant‟s acts of taking material acquired by the skill, organisation
> and money of the complainant and appropriating it and selling it as its own,
> is trying to reap where it has not sown and would thus constitute unfair
> competition. The underlying principle behind the tort of „unfair competition
> is that „he who has fairly paid the price should have the beneficial use of
> the property‟." (emphasis supplied).
7\. It is also pertinent to note that this principle enunciated in the INS
Case with respect to „unfair competition‟ and „unjust commercial enrichment‟
has been followed in other cases regarding dissemination of updates/alerts
arising from sporting events. In the case of Pittsburgh Athletic Co. et.al vs.
KQV Broadcasting Co., 24 F.Supp. 490 (Pittsburgh Case), the District Court of
Pennsylvania in the year 1938 dealt with a case where the plaintiff prayed for
a preliminary injunction to restrain the defendants from broadcasting play-by-
play reports and description of baseball games played by the plaintiff‟s
baseball team. The defendant admitted to the broadcasting of play-by-play news
of the plaintiff‟s games and asserted its intention to continue doing so. In a
similar case, National Exhibition Company vs. Martin Fass, 143 N.Y.S.2d 767,
(National Exhibition Case) the Supreme Court of New York County was also faced
with a prayer for injunction against the defendants who were listening to the
broadcast of play-by-play CS (OS) Nos. 2722/2012, 3232/2012 and 2780/2012 Page
8 of 39 descriptions of baseball games organised by the plaintiff and sending
out simultaneous teletype reports of the games to radio stations for immediate
broadcast. The same Court in the year 1937, was faced with a prayer for
injunction against the defendants from interfering with the exclusive right of
the plaintiffs to broadcast a description of certain boxing exhibition in the
case of Twentieth Century Sporting Club Inc. and Ors vs. Transradio Press
Service Inc. and Anr., 300 N.Y.S. 159 (Twentieth Century Fox Case). In all the
three cases, the Courts granted the injunction following the ratio of the INS
Case. The plaintiff and BCCI contend that these precedents have a large
persuasive value due to the similarity in the factual matrix, specifically
with respect to play-by-play updates being analogous to the ball-by-ball
updates provided by the defendants.
8\. The plaintiff also sought to rely on the decision of the Madras High Court
in the case of Marksman Marketing Services Pvt. Ltd. vs. Bharti Tele-Ventures
Ltd. & Ors., O.A. No. 78/2006 (Marksman Case), which dealt with nearly
identical facts as the instant case. In the Marksman Case, the Pakistan
Cricket Board (PCB) had assigned its exclusive rights over a cricket series
between India and Pakistan in the form of television rights, audio rights,
internet rights, SMS rights and other rights to several persons on global
basis for a valuable consideration. M/s VECTRACOM Pvt. Ltd., a company
incorporated under the laws of Pakistan had entered into CS (OS) Nos.
2722/2012, 3232/2012 and 2780/2012 Page 9 of 39 an agreement with the PCB,
dated 29.12.2005 with respect of SMS rights in India‟s Tour of Pakistan. The
Plaintiff prayed for an injunction under Sections 55 and 61 of the Copyright
Act, 1957, restraining the defendants from disseminating information relating
to scores, alerts and updates through SMS technology on wireless and mobile
phones by means of transmission to handheld mobile phones in respect of the
matches.
9\. The Madras High Court, relying on the decision of the New York District
Court in the case of National Basketball Association and NBA Properties Inc.
v. Sports Team Analysis and Tracking Systems Inc., 939 F.Supp. 1071 (NBA-1
Case) held -
> "The right of providing scores, alerts and updates is the result of
> expenditure of skill, labour and money of the organisers and so the same is
> saleable only by them. The sending of score updates and match alerts via SMS
> amounts to interference with the normal operation of the Organisers
> business. The defendant‟s act of appropriating facts and information from
> the match telecast and selling the same is nothing but endeavoring to reap
> where the defendants have not sown."
10.In response, the defendants‟ primary contention is that, the „proprietary
rights‟ as claimed by the plaintiff/BCCI do not exist as they are not
recognized under any law or statute enacted by the Parliament because, Section
16 of the Copyright Act, 1957 precludes the plaintiff and BCCI from claiming
any other right except as provided under the Act. In furtherance of this
argument, they have relied on judgments of this Court in the cases, Time CS
(OS) Nos. 2722/2012, 3232/2012 and 2780/2012 Page 10 of 39 Warner
Entertainment Co., L.P. & Ors. v. R.P.G. Netcom & etc., AIR 2007 Del 226; and
Super Cassettes Industries Ltd. v. Mr. Chintamani Rao & Ors., 2012 (49) PTC 1
(Del), in which it was held that the appellants/plaintiffs cannot claim
copyright and sue for infringement of copyrights de hors the Act because
copyright exists and can be only in accordance with the provisions of the Act
or under any law which was in force at the time when the Act was enacted.
Common law rights under copyright law were held to be abrogated by Section 31
of the erstwhile Copyright Act, 1911.
11.The defendants also contended that since there is a preclusion (or
preemption) under Section 16 of the Act, the plaintiff and the BCCI are
„fishing for‟ a right under common law by claiming „quasi- property rights‟.
And only torts such as defamation and breach of confidentiality are recognized
by the common law of India and that the tort of „unfair competition‟ is not
recognized. They have contended that reliance must not be placed on the
Marksman Case, because the decision of the New York District Court in the
NBA-1 Case, upon which the Madras High Court relied, had been reversed by the
United States Court of Appeals, Second Circuit in, National Basketball
Association and NBA Properties Inc. v. Motorola Inc., 105 F. 3d. 841 (1997)
(NBA-2 Case). The defendants have also relied upon Barclays Capital Inc.,
Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Inc. & Morgan Stanley & Co. Inc. v.
Theflyonthewall.com Inc., 650 F.3d 876 (Theflyonthewall Case), CS (OS) Nos.
2722/2012, 3232/2012 and 2780/2012 Page 11 of 39 which has followed the
decision of the appellate court in the NBA-2 Case and held:
> "INS itself is no longer good law. Purporting to establish a principle of
> federal common law, the law established by INS, was abolished by Erie
> Railroad Co. v. Tomkins, 304 U.S. 64, 58 S.Ct. 817, 82 L.Ed. 1188 (1938),
> which largely abandoned federal common law."
12.The defendants contend that the above decision of the U.S. Courts
represents a digression from the „Hot-News Doctrine‟ laid down in the INS Case
by citing various other foreign decisions. To start with, the defendants have
submitted that the Court of Appeals decision in the NBA-2 Case represents the
preemption of state law claims that enforced rights "equivalent" to exclusive
copyright protections, when the work to which the state claim fell within the
area of copyright protection; analogous to the preclusion (or preemption)
under Section 16 of the Copyright Act, 1957. The other decisions relied by the
defendants to substantiate the judicial digression from the reasoning in the
INS Case are Triangle Publications Inc. v. New England News Paper Publishing
Co., 46 F.Supp. 198 (1942) and Compco Corp v. Day Brite Lightning Inc., 376
U.S. 234 (1964) by the Courts in the U.S.; and Cadbury- Schweppes Pty. Ltd. &
Ors. v. Pub Squash Co. Pty. Ltd., [1981] 1 W.L.R. 193 and Moorgate Tobacco Co.
Ltd. v. Philip Morris Ltd., 156 CLR 414 by the Courts in Australia.
CS (OS) Nos. 2722/2012, 3232/2012 and 2780/2012 Page 12 of 39
13.Alternatively, the defendants also contend that the plaintiff and BCCI at
best, can only claim broadcasting rights and copyright over the cinematograph
film of the cricket match or audio recording of the commentary etc., to the
extent it is recognized under the Act. And that the defendants‟ action does
not amount to free-riding because, they neither copy the actual content of the
broadcast, nor provide access to audio or visual footage of the broadcast. In
any event, the defendants contend that they are legally entitled to
disseminate the score updates/match alerts to the public and consequently
generate income. Firstly, because the information emanating from the cricket
match such as score updates/match alerts amounts to „facts‟ which cannot be
owned or afforded copyright protection. Secondly, even if it were afforded
copyright protection, the score alert/match update has already entered the
public domain and therefore, can be freely used by the defendants. And
finally, because the Constitution under Article 19(1)(a) confers them the
freedom to disseminate information to the public.
14.In support of their first argument, the defendants have relied upon the
decisions in Victoria Park Racing and Recreation Grounds Co. Ltd vs. Taylor,
58 CLR 479b (Victoria Park Case) and Feist Publications, Inc. V. Rural
Telephone Service Co., 499 U.S. 340 (1991) (Feist Publications Case). In the
Vitoria Park Case, the plaintiff carried on the business of conducting race
meetings at a racecourse owned by it. The plaintiff did not permit any
description CS (OS) Nos. 2722/2012, 3232/2012 and 2780/2012 Page 13 of 39 or
information concerning the races to be broadcast. The defendant, an owner and
occupier of a piece of land on the opposite side of the racecourse allowed the
other defendant, Commonwealth Broadcasting Corporation, to observe and
broadcast the race. The plaintiff sought an injunction against such
broadcasting contending that since its efforts and expenditure was spent on
organising the race, it has quasi-property rights in the race. The Court held
that the law of copyright did not give any person an exclusive right to
describe a particular set of facts. Just because a person announces for the
first time, that a particular horse won the race or any fact, it would not
prevent others from describing the same event. Similarly, in the Feist
Publications Case, the plaintiff sought to copyright a compilation of
telephone numbers, which was denied by the Court on the ground that it was
merely a different presentation of facts and did not possess „originality or
creativity‟, which is the sine qua non of copyright.
15.The defendants have also contended that match information was not a result
of the „originality or creativity‟ of the plaintiff. And that the test of
„originality or creativity‟ has been followed by Indian Courts to grant
copyright. In furtherance of this argument, the defendants have cited the case
of Servewell Products Pvt. Ltd. & Anr. v. Dolphin, 2010 (43) PTC 507 (Del), in
which this Court had observed, CS (OS) Nos. 2722/2012, 3232/2012 and 2780/2012
Page 14 of 39 "The Supreme Court has recognized the shift in Eastern Book
Company v. DB Modak, following the approach laid down by the Canadian Supreme
Court in CCH Canadian Ltd. v. Law Society of Upper Canada, (2004) SCC 13,
rejected the "sweat of the brow doctrine" (which conferred copyright on works
merely because time, energy, skill and labour was expended), and held that the
work must be original "in the sense that by virtue of selection, co-ordination
or arrangement of pre-existing data contained in the work, the work somewhat
different in character, is produced by the author." Thus, in India, the test
for creativity establishes a higher threshold than the "sweat of the brow"
doctrine, but not as high as „modicum of creativity‟."
16.In support of their „public domain‟ argument, the defendants have cited the
decision of the Apex Court in case of Eastern Book Company & Ors v. D.B. Modak
& Anr, (2008) 1 SCC 1 (EBC Case). In this case, the plaintiff claimed
copyright over the judgments published in its journals and sought a temporary
injunction against the defendants who were allegedly copying the judgments
published by the plaintiff and republishing under their own name. Observing
that plaintiff company could not claim copyright in a judgment under the
heading „literary work‟ because it had already entered the public domain, the
Apex Court only granted an injunction limited to the headnotes, footnotes and
editorial notes authored by the plaintiff and allowed the defendant to sell
their CD- ROMS with the text of judgments.
17.With respect to the free speech argument, the defendants contend that the
information arising from a cricket match is public property and that the score
updates/match alerts were being disseminated in CS (OS) Nos. 2722/2012,
3232/2012 and 2780/2012 Page 15 of 39 public interest. And since, the
defendants were employing their own infrastructure, efforts and skill to
disseminate the information in public interest; they contend that they are
entitled to the profits. In support of this argument, the defendants have
placed reliance on the landmark decision of the Apex Court in the case of Tata
Press Limited vs. Mahanagar Telephone-Nigam Limited & Ors., AIR 1995 SC 2438
(Tata Press Case). The Apex Court held, "Examined from another angle, the
public at large has a right to receive the „commercial speech‟. Article
19(1)(a) not only guarantees freedom of speech and expression, it also
protects the rights of an individual to listen, read and receive the said
speech... The protection of Article 19(1)(a) is available to the speaker as
well as to the recipient of the speech." (emphasis supplied)
18.Further, the defendants have also sought to rely on the decision of the
Single Bench of this Court in the case of ICC Development (International) Ltd.
& Anr. v. New Delhi Television Ltd., C.S. (O.S.) No. 2416/2012 where it was
held, "The score of the match is in public domain and can be broadcasted by
any channel as a part of its right to report current news and events."
19.In a rejoinder, the Plaintiffs have reiterated that they were seeking a
remedy de hors the Copyright Act, 1957 and therefore, contended that most of
the authorities cited by the defendants were irrelevant to the instant case.
Further, they have contended that they do not intend to prevent the
information arising from cricket matches from CS (OS) Nos. 2722/2012,
3232/2012 and 2780/2012 Page 16 of 39 entering the public domain. On the
contrary, they have argued that it is in the best interest of the game of
cricket in India that the information arising from a cricket match permeates
the public domain to its fullest extent. Ld. Senior Counsel appearing for the
plaintiff submitted that the instant dispute is not between a commercial
entity and the public, but between two commercial entities and hence there is
no substantial question of public policy. In essence, he has contended that it
is not the intention of the plaintiff to prevent the defendants from
disseminating match information to the public, but to ensure that the
defendants share their revenue with the plaintiff by obtaining a license for
such dissemination.
20\. In furtherance of this argument, the plaintiff has relied on the decision
of the Apex Court in the case of Secretary, Ministry of Information and
Broadcasting, Govt. of India & Ors. v. Cricket Association of Bengal & Ors.,
(1995) 2 SCC 161 (MIB Case) in which, the Hon‟ble Supreme Court, finding the
BCCI to be a non- profit making organization, which controls officially
organised game of cricket in India, observed that -
> "[B]eing the organisers of the event had a right to sell the telecasting
> rights of the event to any agency... [I]t has the right to choose the best
> method to earn the maximum revenue possible. In fact, it can be accused of
> negligence and maybe attributed improper motives, if it fails to explore the
> most profitable avenue of telecasting the event, when in any case, in CS
> (OS) Nos. 2722/2012, 3232/2012 and 2780/2012 Page 17 of 39 achieving the
> object of promoting and popularizing the sport, it has to endeavor to
> telecast the cricket matches."
21.In response to the argument regarding match information already being in
public domain, the plaintiff has emphasized upon the time- sensitive nature of
the information emanating from cricketing events with specific reference to
score updates/match alerts. It is their argument that match information does
not completely enter public domain for a particular span of time. For
instance, a person who has access to television/radio will be updated about
the status of a cricket match in real-time. Whereas, persons who do not have
access to a television/radio, such as persons inside office or even courtrooms
may not be updated about match status contemporaneously.
22.Before proceeding to arrive at a conclusion in the instant case, I find it
pertinent to take note of the word of caution from the oft-cited Justice
Oliver Wendell Holmes, who delivered the dissenting judgment in the INS Case,
"The unwritten law possesses capacity for growth and has often satisfied new
demand for justice by invoking analogies or by expanding a rule or principle.
This process has been in the main wisely applied and should not be
discontinued. Where the problem is relatively simple, as it is apt to be when
private interests only are involved, it generally proves adequate. But, with
the increasing complexity of the society, the public interest tends to be
omnipresent; and the problems presented by new demands for justice cease to be
simple. When the creation or recognition by courts, of a new private right,
may work serious CS (OS) Nos. 2722/2012, 3232/2012 and 2780/2012 Page 18 of 39
injury to the general public, unless the boundaries of the right are
definitely established and wisely guarded. In order to reconcile the new
private right with the public interest, it may be necessary to prescribe
limitation and rules for its enjoyment; and also to provide administrative
machinery for enforcing the rules. It is largely for this reason that, in the
effort to meet the many new demands for justice, incident to a rapid changing
civilization, resort to legislation has latterly been had with increasing
frequency."(emphasis supplied).
23\. At this juncture, it is necessary to identify the stake holders in this
case. The non-contesting defendant, BCCI, a not-for-profit singular governing
body which has conceptualized, created, developed and promoted the game of
cricket in India. The plaintiff, STAR, who is the assignee of the „bouquet of
rights‟ and has been chosen by the BCCI to maximize the monetization of all
the information emanating from cricketing events organised by the BCCI. The
Defendants, who are providers of contemporaneous alerts and match updates to
the public, proclaiming to be the only player in the SMS/MVAS market
facilitating such information dissemination. However, it is pertinent to note
that they do not do it gratuitously. And last but not the least, the cricket
crazy public, who have created the demand for real-time or contemporaneous
score updates/match alerts. In fact, the presence of overwhelming public
interest cannot be ignored. Although the suit is regarding the right to
monetize information arising from a cricket match, it is imperative for this
Court to remain conscious of whether the general public will have CS (OS) Nos.
2722/2012, 3232/2012 and 2780/2012 Page 19 of 39 access to the information
arising from cricket matches, more so in a cricket crazy nation such as ours.
24.Keeping this in mind, I find that the following issues arise before this
Court for consideration:
> a. Whether BCCI has the right to monetize the information arising from a
> cricket match organised by it. b. Whether the defendants are free-riding on
> the efforts of the plaintiff/BCCI c. Whether the score alert/match updates
> are already in public domain.
> d. Whether the defendants have a freedom under Article 19(1)(a) to
> disseminate contemporaneous match information. e. Whether the public
> interest needs to be kept in mind before considering the rival claims.
> f. Whether the plaintiff is entitled to an interim injunction.
25.With respect to the first two issues, the contention of the defendants that
the plaintiff and the BCCI are not entitled to copyright or any other similar
rights under the Act, is misplaced. There is no dispute regarding the fact
that the plaintiff has approached this court de hors the Copyright Act, 1957.
It is amply clear that the plaintiff, as the assignee of BCCI is not claiming
copyright (or any other similar right) over information arising from a cricket
match. In this regard, I find that the decisions in the Feist Publications
Case, Victoria Park Case, Theflyonthewall Case and EBC Case, cited by the CS
(OS) Nos. 2722/2012, 3232/2012 and 2780/2012 Page 20 of 39 defendants in
furtherance of this argument to be irrelevant. I also do not consider it
relevant to examine if match information is a product of the „originality or
creativity‟ of the plaintiff. Besides, it is a well settled principle of
Copyright Law, that „facts‟ cannot be copyrighted.
26.Regarding the defendant‟s contention that common law rights are abrogated
(precluded or preempted) under Section 16 of the Copyright Act, it is
essential to keep in mind the legislative history of Section 16. As observed
by the Division Bench of this Court in Time Warner Case, Section 16 in the
1957 Act is a derivative of Section 31 of the erstwhile Copyright Act, 1911.
The provision as it stood in the erstwhile enactment is as follows:
> Section 31. Abrogation of common law rights.-No person shall be entitled to
> copyright or any similar right in any literary, dramatic, musical, or
> artistic work, whether published or unpublished, otherwise than under and in
> accordance with the provisions of this Act, or of any other statutory
> enactment for the time being in force, but nothing in this section shall be
> construed as abrogating any right or jurisdiction to restrain a breach of
> trust or confidence.
The Division Bench also noted that the aforesaid provision had the effect of
abrogating all common law rights as they existed. A person, therefore, was
entitled to copyright only under the provisions of the said Act and any other
statutory enactment in force when the Copyright Act, 1911 was enacted. Section
16 of the CS (OS) Nos. 2722/2012, 3232/2012 and 2780/2012 Page 21 of 39 Act
has to be read in the light of Section 31 of the Copyright Act, 1911\.
27.In light of the above observation, it is pertinent to note certain aspects
which were taken into consideration by the Parliament before enacting the 1957
Act. In the Statement of Objects and Reasons to the 1957 Act, the Parliament
observed that during the preceding 4 decades, new and advanced means of
communications like broadcasting, litho-photography, etc. called for certain
amendments in the existing law. Therefore, the Parliament rearranged the main
principles of the existing law and introduced several new features including a
provision for certain rights akin to copyright such as broadcasting rights and
performer‟s rights.
28.Moreover, it is amply clear from the provisions of Section 16 that it
applies to „work‟ alone. The term „work‟ is defined under Section 2(y) of the
Act to be (i) a literary, dramatic, musical, or artistic work; (ii) a
cinematograph film; (iii) a sound recording. The definition is exhaustive and
not inclusive, thereby clearly specifying the parameters of Section 16. In
other words, Section 16 does not apply to anything which is not a work. The
scope of Section 16 is further limited by Section 39A of the Act, because this
provision belongs to the Chapter of the Act which deals with „neighboring‟ or
„related rights‟. Section 39A of the Act is as follows -
> 39A. Other provisions applying to broadcast reproduction right and
> performer's right - Sections 18, 19, 30, 53, 55, 58, CS (OS) Nos. 2722/2012,
> 3232/2012 and 2780/2012 Page 22 of 39 64, 65 and 66 shall, with necessary
> adaptations and modifications, apply in relation to broadcast reproduction
> right in any broadcast and the performer‟s right, in any performance, as
> they apply, in relation to copyright in a work:
> Provided that where copyright or performer‟s right subsists in respect of
> any work or performance, that has been broadcast, no license to reproduce
> such broadcast shall take effect without the consent of the owners of rights
> or performer, as the case maybe, or both of them. (emphasis supplied)
29.This Section enumerates those provisions of the statute that apply to
copyright would also apply, mutatis mutandis to the neighboring rights (eg.
Performer‟s rights, Broadcasting reproduction rights). However, it is
pertinent to note that Section 16 is not enumerated under Section 39A of the
Act. Moreover, the Copyright Act creates several rights besides copyright.
These rights include the rights of broadcasting organisations under Section
37, the rights of performers under Sections 38 and 38A, and the moral rights
of authors which are recognized under Section 57; which are all distinct from
copyright. This has also been noted by the Division Bench of this Court in the
case ESPN Star Sports v. Global Broadcast News Ltd. & Ors., 2008 (38) PTC 477
(Del.) (DB) (ESPN Case), "Satellite broadcasting rights are treated as
separate rights and the said rights are recognized throughout the world as
independent rights as held in Raj Video Vision v. M/s Sun TV, 1994 (2), Madras
Law Weekly 158 which has also been approved in AA Associates versus Prem Goel
AIR 2002 Del CS (OS) Nos. 2722/2012, 3232/2012 and 2780/2012 Page 23 of 39
142\. A similar view has been taken in M/s Video Master v. M/s Nishi
Productions, 1998 (18) PTC 117."
30.Despite there being an array of rights which have been recognized under the
Copyright Act, 1957, it is unmistakable, that the preemption under Section 16
of the Act, only applies to copyright or any similar right only with respect
to „works‟ and cannot be extended to the other rights in any manner
whatsoever. In the instant case, it is amply clear that score updates/match
alerts do not constitute a „work‟ as defined under the Act, and therefore,
cannot be said to fall within the purview of the preemption under Section
16\. In any event, the BCCI and the plaintiff are not seeking a creation of
copyright or a similar right from this Court, but have merely approached this
Court to find a remedy in common law against the tort of „unjust commercial
enrichment‟.
31.Although the defendants have contended that the tort of „unjust commercial
enrichment‟ is not recognized in India, the Apex Court in the case of Mahabir
Kishore & Ors. v. State of Madhya Pradesh, 1989 SCR (3) 596 has observed that
the Courts in England have formulated the doctrine of unjust enrichment in
certain situations where it would be „unjust‟ to allow the defendant to retain
a benefit at the plaintiff‟s expense. The Court has held, "The principle of
unjust enrichment requires; first, that the defendant has been 'enriched' by
the receipt of a "benefit"; secondly, that this enrichment is "at the expense
of the plaintiff" and thirdly, that the retention of the enrichment be unjust.
This justified restitution. Enrichment may take the form of direct CS (OS)
Nos. 2722/2012, 3232/2012 and 2780/2012 Page 24 of 39 advantage to the
recipient wealth such as by the receipt of money or indirect one for instance
where inevitable expense has been saved." (emphasis supplied)
32.In the instant case, it is unnecessary to determine whether the plaintiff
has absolute proprietary rights under common law over all the information
which arises from a cricket match. The plaintiff is only seeking the
declaration of a right to generate revenue by monetizing the information
arising from an event, which has been conceptualized, developed, created and
organised by the sole efforts and expenditure of the BCCI; as its assignee.
Admittedly, in order to monetize the expense, effort and skill employed in
organising cricket matches in India, the BCCI conducted an auction in April
2012 to assign exclusive rights such as television rights, audio rights,
internet rights and mobile rights, for all BCCI events. Besides, it has also
been submitted that the „Mobile Rights‟ and „Mobile Activation‟ rights were
also available on an „a la carte‟ basis at a cost of Rs. 50 lacs per match.
Applying the test of unjust enrichment as observed in the Mahabir Kishore
case, it is amply clear that the defendants are enriching themselves at the
cost of the plaintiff.
33.With respect to the defendant‟s arguments regarding lack of direct
competition between the parties, I find that the action of the defendants
directly competes with the plaintiff. This is because both the plaintiff and
defendant are seeking to generate revenue by way of providing contemporaneous
score updates/match alerts. The CS (OS) Nos. 2722/2012, 3232/2012 and
2780/2012 Page 25 of 39 plaintiff in the instant case has successfully bid for
the entire „bouquet of rights‟ which also included „mobile rights‟ and „mobile
activation rights‟. The Media Rights Agreement defines -
> "Mobile Activation Rights means the right to make available any form of
> BCCI-branded schedule; match and score alert and application exploited via
> SMS, MMS or any other form of Mobile Communications Technology or Mobile
> Wireless Technology; It is clarified that no other form of exploitation
> would be permitted such as competition, game, fantasy event, predictor game,
> application or other activation which are expressly prohibited.
> Mobile Rights means the Mobile Activation Rights and the right to deliver or
> provide access to the Feed or Footage, the Audio Feed, any Unilateral
> Commentary and Unilateral Coverage in the Territory during the Rights
> Period, for reception and viewing in an intelligible form on a Mobile Device
> where the communication link(s) used in such delivery comprises, at least in
> part, Mobile Communications Technology and/or Mobile Broadcast Technology
> but excluding Television Delivery and Internet Delivery."
34.If the plaintiff did not intend on generating revenue by exploiting these
„mobile rights‟ and „mobile activation rights‟, it could have resorted to
bidding only for selective rights since they were also available on an „a la
catre‟ basis. It is amply clear that the plaintiff‟s grievance is not
infringement of its exclusive rights over the footage of the cricket match,
but specifically regarding the right to raise revenue by disseminating match
information contemporaneously via SMS/MVAS by exploiting the „mobile rights‟
and „mobile activation rights‟ exclusively assigned to it in CS (OS) Nos.
2722/2012, 3232/2012 and 2780/2012 Page 26 of 39 the „Media Rights Agreement‟
dated 10.08.2012. Therefore, the element of direct competition clearly exists
specifically with respect to contemporaneous score updates/match alerts.
35.The defendants have contended that the decision of the Madras High Court in
the Marksman Case is bad in law, because it has erroneously relied on the
decision of the District Court in the NBA- 1 Case, which was subsequently
reversed by the Court of Appeals in the NBA-2 Case. I do not find this
contention relevant in the instant case because, as observed earlier, the
plaintiff herein has sought a remedy de hors the Copyright Act, 1957. Whereas,
in the Marksman Case, the plaintiff/claimant had filed the suit under Sections
55 and 61 of the Act. However, it is pertinent to take note of the ratio
decidendi of the Court of Appeals in the NBA-2 Case.
36.The Court of Appeals, in the NBA-2 Case has recognized that certain „hot-
news‟ INS like claims survives preemption and is limited to cases where, "(i)
a plaintiff generates or gathers information at a cost; (ii) the information
is time-sensitive; (iii) a defendant's use of the information constitutes
free-riding on the plaintiff's efforts; (iv) the defendant is in direct
competition with a product or service offered by the plaintiffs; and (v) the
ability of other parties to free-ride on the efforts of the plaintiff or
others would so reduce the incentive to produce the product or service that
its existence or quality would be substantially threatened."
37.Though the Court in the NBA-2 Case may have watered down the applicability
of the „hot news doctrine‟ from the INS Case due to CS (OS) Nos. 2722/2012,
3232/2012 and 2780/2012 Page 27 of 39 the 1976 amendments to the Federal
Copyright Law in the U.S., it has retained the primacy of the fundamental
principles on unjust enrichment as evidenced in prongs (i), (iii) and (iv) of
the test mentioned above. Besides, the exclusive right of an Organiser to
monetize his own event need not find its source in any statutory enactment,
because it is a fundamental principle of equity as observed in the INS Case,
"The underlying principle is much the same as that which lies at the base of
the equitable theory of consideration in the law of trusts - that he, who has
fairly paid the price, should have the beneficial use of the property."
This reasoning has been followed in other cases regarding dissemination of
updates/alerts arising from sporting events such as the Pittsburgh Case,
National Exhibition Case and the Twentieth Century Fox Case.
38.Moreover, it is clear, that match information is generated because of the
cost incurred by the BCCI in organising the cricket as a sport in India. It is
undisputed, that BCCI plays the cardinal role in all aspects of cricket in
India. Right from remunerating the players, umpires and other match officials,
to arranging sponsors for the cricket match itself. It is also undisputed that
the only source of income for the BCCI is from monetizing the cricketing
events organised by it. In such a circumstance, the defendants would have had
a legitimate right to disseminate contemporaneous match information, had they
obtained a license by either participating in CS (OS) Nos. 2722/2012,
3232/2012 and 2780/2012 Page 28 of 39 the bid conducted by the BCCI or by
obtaining a sub-license from the plaintiff. The argument that expenditure is
being incurred by the defendants to set-up infrastructure and employ personnel
has no merit, because such expenditure is incurred upon the process of
dissemination and not towards the organization of the sport or in the process
of legitimately obtaining the information from the plaintiff or BCCI.
Therefore, I find that the action of the defendants cashing upon the efforts
of the plaintiff/BCCI constitutes free-riding.
39.With respect to the third issue, regarding the match information already
being in public domain, it is pertinent to observe the peculiar nature of the
information itself. Firstly, I have already stated that this suit is de hors
the Copyright Act and since the plaintiffs are not seeking a copyright of the
score updates/match alerts, there is no question of the information entering
the public domain as envisaged under the Act. However, if we may use the term
„public domain‟ to connote the information becoming freely available to the
public (emphasis supplied), it can be said that the information emanating from
a cricket match, enters the public domain at different moments of time i.e. is
becomes freely available to the public at different moments of time. To
elucidate through an example, the outcome of the first ball bowled in a
cricket match, enters the public domain instantly qua the spectators in the
stadium. The same information enters the public domain after a delay of a few
seconds (or micro-seconds) subject to the time-lag in CS (OS) Nos. 2722/2012,
3232/2012 and 2780/2012 Page 29 of 39 transmission of such information over a
live telecast through television/radio. As a corollary, the information has
still not entered the public domain qua the persons who do not have any access
to a source of contemporaneous information i.e. TV or radio.
40.There is a great demand for knowing ball-by-ball progress of a match as
opposed to the match-summary at the end of the match. This is evidenced by the
fact that customers of such SMS/MVAS are willing to pay between two to three
rupees per alert/update. There is no merit in the argument that the match
information has entered public domain i.e. available to the public, the very
instance it is broadcasted by the plaintiff. It is similar to saying that the
plot of a book or movie has entered the public domain as soon as it is
released. Therefore, I find that match information has not entered „public
domain‟ i.e. is not readily available to the class of persons who do not have
access to TV/radio, who also happen to be the target consumers of the both the
parties.
41.However, there is considerable merit in the defendant‟s arguments that they
have a fundamental right to disseminate such information as demanded by the
public. At this juncture, it is imperative for this Court to balance the right
of the organiser of an event to monetize his own event as against the right of
the public to receive information regarding such event and the right of the
media to provide access to such information demanded.
CS (OS) Nos. 2722/2012, 3232/2012 and 2780/2012 Page 30 of 39
42.Firstly, it must be noted that all consumers of cricket information cannot
be treated equally. There are different classes of public who are consumers of
cricket information in the sense that the persons who have purchased tickets
to watch the match live at the stadium consists a class in itself, as opposed
to those who have decided to stay at home and follow the match on their
TV/radio. Similarly, the class of public who have chosen their work, vocation
or any other engagement instead of going to the stadium or sitting in front of
the TV cannot be considered and treated at par with those who have. This
distinction is essential because defendants are targeting the third class of
persons and are claiming that these persons have the right to receive match
information at par (or almost at par) with the first two classes of persons.
However, this argument needs a closer inspection.
43.The Supreme Court has made it amply clear in cases such as Tata Press that
the public‟s right to receive information is within the ambit of Article
19(1)(a) of the Constitution. The Courts have held that the freedom of speech
and expression was available to the press to disseminate such information but
a line has to be drawn in cases where the power is misused. For instance, in
the case of New Delhi Television Ltd v. ICC Development (International) Ltd. &
Anr., FAO (OS) 460/2012 (NDTV Case), a division bench of this Court examined
whether using the footage of a match while airing special „expert-analysis‟
programs by the news channel was considered CS (OS) Nos. 2722/2012, 3232/2012
and 2780/2012 Page 31 of 39 „reporting‟ and therefore, justified under the
principle of „fair dealing‟ and also exonerated under Article 19(1)(a) of the
Constitution. The Court observed that the freedom of speech and expression was
available to the press to disseminate information, but a line had to be drawn
in cases where the freedom is misused.
44.Although the matter before the Division Bench of this Court in the NDTV
Case was pertaining to the infringement of copyright and reproduction rights
in the broadcast of cricket matches, there are certain relevant observations
in the context of the instant case. Firstly, the Division Bench has determined
the parameters of what constitutes „reporting‟ in the case of a sporting
event. The Court observed, "In other words, pertaining to sports, reporting of
an event or an affair would be to give a coverage which is result oriented.
This view was cited with approval in Media Works NZ's case (supra), which
decision was followed by the Division Bench of this Court in ESPN Star Sports
Case." (emphasis supplied)
45.Secondly, with specific reference to cricket, the Division Bench observed,
"How does it translate to an event of sports (cricket)? Each match would be an
event. Thus, the span of the match as an event being news would span the
entire duration of the match. But, within this period of match, the fall of a
wicket; the achievement of a milestone in the career of a player : to wit
(sic.) 1000 runs scored, 2000 runs scored etc. or 100 wickets taken, 150
wickets taken or the 50th catch taken would be events, spanning a momentary
duration, and being news when the event takes place."
CS (OS) Nos. 2722/2012, 3232/2012 and 2780/2012 Page 32 of 39
46.In cases where the offending activity does not qualify as reporting, the
Division Bench observed, "If the offending activity fails to qualify
„reporting‟ as understood aforenoted i.e. is not result oriented but is by way
of analysis or review that would be the end of the matter. Question of further
considering whether the use of the footage is fair or unfair does not arise
because law permits a broadcaster or a performance to be used for reporting a
current event or an affair and thereafter places restrictions in the use of
acquiring the same in a fair manner."
47.Finding that raising revenue under the garb of „reporting‟ was not in
consonance with the spirit of Article 19(1)(a), the Division Bench observed,
"Thus, the cry in the media or the press, which we may possibly hear tomorrow
after our opinion is pronounced, that freedom of the media and the press to
disseminate information has been curtailed by us, if at all, is set at rest by
us by noting that the freedom of the press and the media to disseminate
information was recognized by the society keeping in view the press and the
media which existed in the 19th and the 20th Century i.e. as organs of
thought, of empowerment, of culture and of refinement. Not as organs of
entertainment and revenue generation; least of all as an organ offering on its
back, a piggy ride for commercial entities i.e. business houses to advertise
their products by commercializing the goodwill of others."(emphasis supplied).
48.In the same breath, the Division bench also observed -
> "Stale news is no news. Law permits current events and affairs to be
> reported i.e. recognizes that stale news is no news and thus must be
> reported currently. That is the reason why an archival footage acquires the
> status of being archaic after 24 hours... Now, is the problematic area! When
> does an event or an affair become news? Does news has a gestation period to
> mutate into CS (OS) Nos. 2722/2012, 3232/2012 and 2780/2012 Page 33 of 39
> history? If yes, what would be the gestation period? Questions which are
> easy to pose, but extremely difficult to answer with empirical precision."
49.In the instant case, it is pertinent to note that „news‟ or „noteworthy
information‟ arising from a cricket match is very different from the ball-by-
ball or minute-by-minute information. For instance, who won the toss and chose
to bat/bowl, whether the batsman has scored a century, or a bowler has taken a
hat-trick, or a new world record being set constitutes news in the realm of a
cricket match. To substantiate with an example, a news channel „reporting‟ a
cricket match would not engage in the contemporaneous dissemination of ball-
by-ball or minute-by-minute match information. A news channel would only
report selective excerpts from the match which is news worthy. This
characterization of news is in consonance with the observation of the Division
Bench in the NDTV Case.
50.Therefore, it is amply clear that the dissemination of the ball-by-ball or
minute-by-minute updates at a premium cannot be exonerated under the freedom
of speech and expression as guaranteed under Article 19(1)(a). Meanwhile, all
noteworthy information arising from a cricket match constitute „news‟, and the
„reporting‟ of such noteworthy information would be protected under Article
19(1)(a).
51.With regards to the last two issues, which is the operative part of this
judgment, it is settled law that before granting an interim injunction under
Order XXXIX Rules 1 & 2, the Court is required CS (OS) Nos. 2722/2012,
3232/2012 and 2780/2012 Page 34 of 39 to identify a prima facie case,
determine the balance of convenience and ascertain if there would be
irreparable injury to the plaintiff. In addition, Courts are also required to
keep in mind the public interest before granting an injunction, as observed by
this Court in Patel Energy Ltd. v. Union of India & Anr., LPA No. 718/2012.
Following the rule laid down by the Apex Court in Cases such as Ramniklal N.
Bhutta v. State of Maharashtra, (1997) 1 SCC 134 and Baitarani Gramiya Bank v.
PallabKumar, (2004) 9 SCC 100, this Court observed, "The courts have now,
besides the three elements of prima facie case, irreparable injury and balance
of convenience, also added the element of public interest in the matter of
grant of interim relief, and interim relief can be denied if the grant thereof
would be against the public interest."
52.I am convinced that the plaintiff has made out a prima facie case. This
also necessarily implies that the defendant‟s application under Order VII Rule
11 for the rejection of the plaint due to lack of cause of action would have
no merit. I have also found that by free-riding upon the efforts of the
plaintiff, the defendants are eating into the revenue which the plaintiff
would have made, thereby causing the plaintiff irreparable injury. With
respect to the balance of convenience, I find that it lies with the plaintiff
only to a certain extent. On one hand, while recognizing the right of the
plaintiff to monetize and earn revenue from the information arising from a
cricket match, it must be borne in mind that such recognition should not
amount to a conferral of blanket rights upon the plaintiff, to the CS (OS)
Nos. 2722/2012, 3232/2012 and 2780/2012 Page 35 of 39 prejudice of the other
stakeholders observed earlier. On the other hand, the defendants while having
their fundamental right of trade and free speech, including the dissemination
of match information to the public, cannot be permitted to have a free ride or
reap what they have not sown. Concurrently, both the contesting parties
venturing into commercial activities cannot deprive the public of its valuable
right to have the information of news and events.
53.Meanwhile, the public also cannot, as a matter of right, claim the access
to contemporaneous score updates/match alerts, equal to those who are enjoying
rights at a premium, by buying the tickets at the stadium or watching it live
on TV. While recognizing the right of the general public to have score
updates/match alerts at their convenience on mobile phones via SMS/MAS, and in
view of the conflicting rights of the contesting parties, it would be just and
reasonable for the defendants to either obtain a license and gain equal rights
to their subscribers, or make them wait for some time, in order to not
prejudice the right of the plaintiff to earn revenue from the match
information.
54.It is gathered that, as it is, about 3-5 minutes are taken for gathering,
compiling and disseminating the score updates/match alerts by the defendants.
In such a circumstance, I am of the opinion that those who do not obtain a
license from the plaintiff, may not disseminate the score update/match alert
before 15 minutes from the moment such score update/match alert is
telecasted/broadcasted by the CS (OS) Nos. 2722/2012, 3232/2012 and 2780/2012
Page 36 of 39 plaintiff. A question might arise as to why the lag is only 15
minutes and not 2/3 minutes or 30 minutes or more?
55.If the time lag was 2/3 minutes, it would be more or less contemporaneous
with the live telecast/broadcast of the match. If it is 30 minutes or more, as
observed by the Division Bench in the NDTV Case, the information becomes
irrelevant, and it would deprive the public of their right to that
information. By specifying a 15 minute lag, it is ensured that the defendants
are not providing ball-by-ball or minute-by-minute score updates/match alerts
contemporaneously with respect to the live telecast/broadcast of match.
Considering the time-sensitive nature of the information, after a span of 15
minutes, there is no longer a direct competition between the parties to
provide contemporaneous match information to the customers who demand it. This
maintains a balance between the right of the plaintiff to monetize the cricket
match and the right of the public to receive such information, and also
prevents the defendants from free-riding on the efforts of the plaintiff.
56\. The contemporaneous dissemination of score updates/match alerts, without
payment, but en-cashing the labour and expenditure of the plaintiff would
amount to „unjust commercial enrichment‟, which would not be fair on the part
of the defendants. To reiterate again, if the defendants are doing so
gratuitously, then they enjoy the absolute right of transmission,
contemporaneously with respect to CS (OS) Nos. 2722/2012, 3232/2012 and
2780/2012 Page 37 of 39 the telecast/broadcast of the plaintiff, because there
is no instance of free-riding or unjust commercial enrichment in such a
circumstance.
57.With respect to „reporting‟ news worthy events, I am once again drawn to
the reasoning of the Division Bench in the NDTV Case wherein the Court
observed the limited shelf-life of news worthy events arising out of a cricket
match thus -
> "[T]he span of the match as an event being news would span the entire
> duration of the match. But, within this period of match, the fall of a
> wicket; the achievement of a milestone in the career of a player : to wit
> (sic.) 1000 runs scored, 2000 runs scored etc. or 100 wickets taken, 150
> wickets taken or the 50th catch taken would be events, spanning a momentary
> duration, and being news when the event takes place. The latter i.e. a
> wicket falling, a century being scored (by a player or by the team), would
> be events which on the principle of stale news is no news and analogy with
> biology (sic.), would require it to be held that to put an embargo on
> reporting said event at a cricket match by putting the time restriction 30
> minutes would amount to not permitting news to be reported but history to be
> reported, for the reason the news element content of such an event i.e. a
> wicket falling or the century being scored is momentary."
58.Before concluding and passing an operative order, I must reiterate that
there is a difference between contemporaneous dissemination of match
information in the form of ball-by-ball or minute-by- minute score
updates/match alerts and reporting noteworthy information or news. In light of
the above mentioned observations, I hereby order the following:
> a. A limited interim injunction restraining the defendants from
> disseminating contemporaneous match information in the CS (OS) Nos.
> 2722/2012, 3232/2012 and 2780/2012 Page 38 of 39 form of ball-by-ball or
> minute-by-minute score updates/match alerts for a premium, without obtaining
> a license from the plaintiff.
> b. There shall be no restriction upon the defendants to report „noteworthy
> information‟ or „news‟ from cricket matches (as discussed in paragraph 49),
> as and when they arise, because „stale news is no news‟.
> c. There shall be no requirement for the license if the defendants do it
> gratuitously or after a time lag of 15 minutes.
59.In view of the above, the application of the plaintiff under Order XXXIX
Rule 1 & 2 of CPC is allowed to the extent indicated above, whereas the
application of the defendant under Order VII Rule 11 stands dismissed.
M.L. MEHTA, J.
MARCH 13, 2013 kk/rmm CS (OS) Nos. 2722/2012, 3232/2012 and 2780/2012 Page 39
of 39
there is a difference between contemporaneous dissemination of match
information in the form of ball-by-ball or minute-by- minute score
updates/match alerts and reporting noteworthy information or news. In light of
the above mentioned observations, I hereby order the following:
> a. A limited interim injunction restraining the defendants from
> disseminating contemporaneous match information in the CS (OS) Nos.
> 2722/2012, 3232/2012 and 2780/2012 Page 38 of 39 form of ball-by-ball or
> minute-by-minute score updates/match alerts for a premium, without obtaining
> a license from the plaintiff.
> b. There shall be no restriction upon the defendants to report „noteworthy
> information‟ or „news‟ from cricket matches (as discussed in paragraph 49),
> as and when they arise, because „stale news is no news‟.
> c. There shall be no requirement for the license if the defendants do it
> gratuitously or after a time lag of 15 minutes.
59.In view of the above, the application of the plaintiff under Order XXXIX
Rule 1 & 2 of CPC is allowed to the extent indicated above, whereas the
                                                      Thomas George, Mr. Udit Sood,
                                                      Advs. For D1 & D2.
                                                      Mr.Amit    Sibal,    Adv.      with
                                                      Ms.Radha            Rangaswamy,
    CS (OS) Nos. 2722/2012, 3232/2012 and 2780/2012                         Page 1 of 39
                                                       Mr.Prateek Chadha, Mr.Raman
                                                      Kumar,            Advocates          for
                                                      D3/BCCI.
       2. CS (OS) No. 3232/2012 & IA 20275-78/2012 & IA 506/2013
       STAR INDIA PVT. LTD.                                             .......Plaintiff
                                   Through:           Mr. Abhishek Manu Singhvi, Sr.
                                                      Adv.       with     Mr.    Saikrishna
                                                      Rajagopal, Mr. Sidharth Chopra,
                                                      Ms. Sneha Jain, Advocates.
                                   Versus
       IDEA CELLULAR & ANR.                                             ......Respondent
                                   Through:           Mr.Rajiv Nayyar, Mr. Neeraj
                                                      Kishan Kaul, Sr. Advs. with
                                                      Mr.Navin Chawla, Ms.Sonali
                                                      Jaitley, Ms.Subha Chauhan, Ms.
there is a difference between contemporaneous dissemination of match
information in the form of ball-by-ball or minute-by- minute score
updates/match alerts and reporting noteworthy information or news. In light of
the above mentioned observations, I hereby order the following:
> a. A limited interim injunction restraining the defendants from
> disseminating contemporaneous match information in the CS (OS) Nos.
> 2722/2012, 3232/2012 and 2780/2012 Page 38 of 39 form of ball-by-ball or
> minute-by-minute score updates/match alerts for a premium, without obtaining
> a license from the plaintiff.
> b. There shall be no restriction upon the defendants to report „noteworthy
> information‟ or „news‟ from cricket matches (as discussed in paragraph 49),
> as and when they arise, because „stale news is no news‟.
> c. There shall be no requirement for the license if the defendants do it
> gratuitously or after a time lag of 15 minutes.
59.In view of the above, the application of the plaintiff under Order XXXIX
Rule 1 & 2 of CPC is allowed to the extent indicated above, whereas the
                                                      Thomas George, Mr. Udit Sood,
                                                      Advs. For D1 & D2.
                                                      Mr.Amit    Sibal,    Adv.      with
                                                      Ms.Radha            Rangaswamy,
    CS (OS) Nos. 2722/2012, 3232/2012 and 2780/2012                         Page 1 of 39
                                                       Mr.Prateek Chadha, Mr.Raman
                                                      Kumar,            Advocates          for
                                                      D3/BCCI.
       2. CS (OS) No. 3232/2012 & IA 20275-78/2012 & IA 506/2013
       STAR INDIA PVT. LTD.                                             .......Plaintiff
                                   Through:           Mr. Abhishek Manu Singhvi, Sr.
                                                      Adv.       with     Mr.    Saikrishna
                                                      Rajagopal, Mr. Sidharth Chopra,
                                                      Ms. Sneha Jain, Advocates.
                                   Versus
       IDEA CELLULAR & ANR.                                             ......Respondent
                                   Through:           Mr.Rajiv Nayyar, Mr. Neeraj
                                                      Kishan Kaul, Sr. Advs. with
                                                      Mr.Navin Chawla, Ms.Sonali
                                                      Jaitley, Ms.Subha Chauhan, Ms.
there is a difference between contemporaneous dissemination of match
information in the form of ball-by-ball or minute-by- minute score
updates/match alerts and reporting noteworthy information or news. In light of
the above mentioned observations, I hereby order the following:
> a. A limited interim injunction restraining the defendants from
> disseminating contemporaneous match information in the CS (OS) Nos.
> 2722/2012, 3232/2012 and 2780/2012 Page 38 of 39 form of ball-by-ball or
> minute-by-minute score updates/match alerts for a premium, without obtaining
> a license from the plaintiff.
> b. There shall be no restriction upon the defendants to report „noteworthy
> information‟ or „news‟ from cricket matches (as discussed in paragraph 49),
> as and when they arise, because „stale news is no news‟.
> c. There shall be no requirement for the license if the defendants do it
> gratuitously or after a time lag of 15 minutes.
59.In view of the above, the application of the plaintiff under Order XXXIX
Rule 1 & 2 of CPC is allowed to the extent indicated above, whereas the
                                                      Thomas George, Mr. Udit Sood,
                                                      Advs. For D1 & D2.
                                                      Mr.Amit    Sibal,    Adv.      with
                                                      Ms.Radha            Rangaswamy,
    CS (OS) Nos. 2722/2012, 3232/2012 and 2780/2012                         Page 1 of 39
                                                       Mr.Prateek Chadha, Mr.Raman
                                                      Kumar,            Advocates          for
                                                      D3/BCCI.
       2. CS (OS) No. 3232/2012 & IA 20275-78/2012 & IA 506/2013
       STAR INDIA PVT. LTD.                                             .......Plaintiff
                                   Through:           Mr. Abhishek Manu Singhvi, Sr.
                                                      Adv.       with     Mr.    Saikrishna
                                                      Rajagopal, Mr. Sidharth Chopra,
                                                      Ms. Sneha Jain, Advocates.
                                   Versus
       IDEA CELLULAR & ANR.                                             ......Respondent
                                   Through:           Mr.Rajiv Nayyar, Mr. Neeraj
                                                      Kishan Kaul, Sr. Advs. with
                                                      Mr.Navin Chawla, Ms.Sonali
                                                      Jaitley, Ms.Subha Chauhan, Ms.
                                                      Mehak       Khajuria,      Mr.Rohan
                                                      Jaitley,     Mr.Bhuvan         Mishra,
                                                      Mr.S.Qureshi, Advs. for D1.
                                                      Mr.Amit       Sibal,      Adv.     with
                                                      Ms.Radha               Rangaswamy,
    CS (OS) Nos. 2722/2012, 3232/2012 and 2780/2012                             Page 2 of 39
                                                       Mr.Prateek Chadha, Mr.Raman
                                                      Kumar,       Advocates            for
                                                      D2/BCCI.
       3. C.S. (O.S.) No. 2780/2012 & IA 16834/2012
       STAR INDIA PVT. LTD.                                        .......Petitioner
there is a difference between contemporaneous dissemination of match
information in the form of ball-by-ball or minute-by- minute score
updates/match alerts and reporting noteworthy information or news. In light of
the above mentioned observations, I hereby order the following:
> a. A limited interim injunction restraining the defendants from
> disseminating contemporaneous match information in the CS (OS) Nos.
> 2722/2012, 3232/2012 and 2780/2012 Page 38 of 39 form of ball-by-ball or
> minute-by-minute score updates/match alerts for a premium, without obtaining
> a license from the plaintiff.
> b. There shall be no restriction upon the defendants to report „noteworthy
> information‟ or „news‟ from cricket matches (as discussed in paragraph 49),
> as and when they arise, because „stale news is no news‟.
> c. There shall be no requirement for the license if the defendants do it
> gratuitously or after a time lag of 15 minutes.
59.In view of the above, the application of the plaintiff under Order XXXIX
Rule 1 & 2 of CPC is allowed to the extent indicated above, whereas the
                                                      Thomas George, Mr. Udit Sood,
                                                      Advs. For D1 & D2.
                                                      Mr.Amit    Sibal,    Adv.      with
                                                      Ms.Radha            Rangaswamy,
    CS (OS) Nos. 2722/2012, 3232/2012 and 2780/2012                         Page 1 of 39
                                                       Mr.Prateek Chadha, Mr.Raman
                                                      Kumar,            Advocates          for
                                                      D3/BCCI.
       2. CS (OS) No. 3232/2012 & IA 20275-78/2012 & IA 506/2013
       STAR INDIA PVT. LTD.                                             .......Plaintiff
                                   Through:           Mr. Abhishek Manu Singhvi, Sr.
                                                      Adv.       with     Mr.    Saikrishna
                                                      Rajagopal, Mr. Sidharth Chopra,
                                                      Ms. Sneha Jain, Advocates.
                                   Versus
       IDEA CELLULAR & ANR.                                             ......Respondent
                                   Through:           Mr.Rajiv Nayyar, Mr. Neeraj
                                                      Kishan Kaul, Sr. Advs. with
                                                      Mr.Navin Chawla, Ms.Sonali
                                                      Jaitley, Ms.Subha Chauhan, Ms.
                                                      Mehak       Khajuria,      Mr.Rohan
                                                      Jaitley,     Mr.Bhuvan         Mishra,
                                                      Mr.S.Qureshi, Advs. for D1.
                                                      Mr.Amit       Sibal,      Adv.     with
                                                      Ms.Radha               Rangaswamy,
    CS (OS) Nos. 2722/2012, 3232/2012 and 2780/2012                             Page 2 of 39
                                                       Mr.Prateek Chadha, Mr.Raman
                                                      Kumar,       Advocates            for
                                                      D2/BCCI.
       3. C.S. (O.S.) No. 2780/2012 & IA 16834/2012
       STAR INDIA PVT. LTD.                                        .......Petitioner
there is a difference between contemporaneous dissemination of match
information in the form of ball-by-ball or minute-by- minute score
updates/match alerts and reporting noteworthy information or news. In light of
the above mentioned observations, I hereby order the following:
> a. A limited interim injunction restraining the defendants from
> disseminating contemporaneous match information in the CS (OS) Nos.
> 2722/2012, 3232/2012 and 2780/2012 Page 38 of 39 form of ball-by-ball or
> minute-by-minute score updates/match alerts for a premium, without obtaining
> a license from the plaintiff.
> b. There shall be no restriction upon the defendants to report „noteworthy
> information‟ or „news‟ from cricket matches (as discussed in paragraph 49),
> as and when they arise, because „stale news is no news‟.
> c. There shall be no requirement for the license if the defendants do it
> gratuitously or after a time lag of 15 minutes.
59.In view of the above, the application of the plaintiff under Order XXXIX
Rule 1 & 2 of CPC is allowed to the extent indicated above, whereas the
