Income Tax Appellate Tribunal - Delhi
M/S. Nokia Siemens Networks Pvt. ... vs Acit, New Delhi on 16 February, 2018
                       IN THE INCOME TAX APPELLATE TRIBUNAL
                         [ DELHI BENCHES: "I - 1" NEW DELHI ]
                    BEFORE SHRI N.K. SAINI, ACCOUNTANT MEMBER
                                        AND
                    SHRI K. NARASIMHA CHARY, JUDICIAL MEMBER.
                              I. T. Appeal No. 333/Del/2013
                                 Assessment Year : 2008-09
    M/s Nokia Siemens Networks India,             Asstt. Commissioner of Income-tax
    7th floor Building No.9A,              vs    Circle 13(1), New Delhi.
    Cyber City, Sector 25A, Gurgaon.
       PAN : AABCS9839H
         (Appellant)                              (Respondent)
                  Assessee by : Shri Deepak Chopra, Smt. Rashmi Chopra
                                S/sh. Amit Srivastava, Harpreet Ajmani, Ankur Goyal
                Department by : Shri Kumar Pranav, Sr. DR
                                                  Date of Hearing : 01.02.2018
                                         Date of Pronouncement :       .02.2018
                                         ORDER
    Copy of the Order forwarded to :-
     1. Appellant;
     2. Respondent;
     3. CIT;
     4. CIT (Appeals);
     5. DR, ITAT, ND.
                                             BY ORDER
                                             ASSISTANT REGISTRAR
                                         60
                                                                Date
    Draft dictated on                                  137.02.2018
    Draft placed before author                         .02.2018
    Draft proposed & placed before the second member
    Draft discussed/approved by Second Member.
    Approved Draft comes to the Sr.PS/PS
    Kept for pronouncement on
                                         ORDER
PER K. NARASIMHA CHARY, J. M. :
Aggrieved by the assessment order dated 30.11.2012 read with the directions
dated 27.9.2012 issued by the Dispute Resolution Panel - II, New Delhi (for
short called "learned DRP), assessee preferred this appeal.
2\. Brief facts of the case are that the assessee is in the business of
manufacturing and trading of telecommunication network equipment and  2
network design, installation and commissioning. The assessee is also providing
support services to major telecom and IT service providers besides developing
telecom software. For the assessment year 2008-09, the assessee filed their
return of income on 30.9.2008 declaring a total income of Rs.47,08,17,570/-.
The case was selected for scrutiny. Matter was referred to the Ld. TPO for
determination of the Armed Length Price of the International Transaction, and
the Learned TPO by order dated 31.10.2011 determined a sum of
Rs.38,36,90,639/- as the transfer pricing adjustment u/s 92CA basing on which
the learned AO made an addition to that effect. Besides this, learned AO made
the following additions also:
> Disallowance of claim of exemption u/s 10AA to the extent of
> Rs.15,93,92,715/- Disallowance of excess depreciation claimed on UPS
> Rs.1,44,75,008 Disallowance of employees contribution to Provident Fund
> Rs.19,25,243/- Disallowance of TDS recoverable written off Rs.2,83,86,834/-
         Disallowance of penalty expenses                                    Rs.4000/-
         Disallowance u/s 40(a)(i)                                           Rs.6,91,99,702/-
> 3\. Assessee carried the matter before the learned DRP. In respect of
> transfer pricing adjustment, learned DRP excluded one M/s Cybermet Infotech
> Ltd. from the set of comparables due to which the transfer pricing
> adjustment had come down to Rs.31,77,69,775/-. In respect of additions on
> account of corporate issues, learned DRP sustained the addition to the tune
> of Rs.13,06,80,262/-.
Learned AO completed the assessment by making an addition of Rs.31,77,79,775/-
on account of transfer pricing adjustment and a sum of Rs.13,06,82,262/- on
account of corporate tax disallowance and concluded the assessment at
Rs.91,92,67,610/-. Challenging this, the assessee is in appeal before us.
3
4\. Ground No.1 is general in nature. Ground No.2 to 2.1 relate to the
depreciation on computer peripherals. Ground No.3 and 3.1 relate to the
disallowance of TDS receivables written off, Ground No.4 to 4.2 relate to the
apportionment of common expenses to unit claiming benefit under section 10A of
the Act. Ground No.5 to 5.4 relate to the disallowance under section 40(a)(i)
whereas Ground Nos. 6 to 7.6 relate to the transfer pricing issues. Ground
No.7.7 and 7.8 are not pressed, Ground No.8 in relation of the initiating
penalty proceedings under section271(1)(c) of the Act is premature and Ground
No.9 on the aspect of levy of interest under section 234B and 234D of the Act
and withdrawing interest under section 244A(3) of the Act is consequential in
nature. Now we shall proceed to adjudicate these aspects.
5\. Coming to Ground No 2 and 2.1, relating to the depreciation on computer
peripherals, assessee claimed depreciation on the equipment like UPS,
stabilizer, LAN/WAN, catalyst switches, network switches etc. at 60%. However,
learned AO disallowed such a claim to an extent of Rs.1,44,75,008/- on the
ground that they form part of the block of assets under plant and machinery,
in respect of which depreciation is allowed only at 15%. Basing on the
decision of the Hon'ble jurisdictional High Court in CIT vs. BSES Yamuna Power
Ltd. (2013) 358 ITR 47 (Del), assessee argued before the learned DRP that
these peripherals form an integral part of computer system, and therefore, 60%
depreciation must be allowed. Learned CIT(A), however, observed that the issue
of allowability of depreciation on computer peripherals is pending before the
Hon'ble Supreme Court, and since it did not attain finality, the plea of the
assessee cannot be entertained.
4
6\. It is the argument of the learned AR that the equipment in respect of
which the depreciation at 60% is claimed does not function on their own and
for deriving any functionality they must be connected to the computer
equipment, as such, they are part and parcel of the computer systems in
respect of which depreciation at 60% has to be allowed. He placed reliance on
the decisions reported in BSES Yamuna [2013] 358 ITR 47 (Delhi); Nokia India
(P.) Ltd. vs. ACIT [2012] 22 taxmann.com 109 (Delhi - Trib.) & [2012] 20
taxmann.com 810 (Delhi); ACIT vs. Timex Watches Ltd [2016] 71 taxmann.com 177
(Delhi - Trib.); GE Capital Business Process Management Services (P.) Ltd. vs.
ACIT [2015] 64 taxmann.com 156 (Delhi - Trib.) in support of his contentions.
7\. In BSES Yamuna (supra) the Hon'ble jurisdictional High Court has held as
under:-
> "6. We are in agreement with the view of the Tribunal that computer
> accessories and peripherals such as, printers, scanners and server, etc.,
> form an integral part of the computer system. In fact, the computer
> accessories and peripherals cannot be used without the computer.
> Consequently, as they are the part of the computer system, they are entitled
> to depreciation at the higher rate of 60 per cent."
8\. In the case of Nokia India (P.) Ltd. (supra), wherein a co-ordinate bench
of this Tribunal has held as under: -
> "13.1 This issue pertains to claim of depreciation @ 60% on UPS, LAN/WAN
> equipment, switches, network equipment and visual studio etc.13.2 We find
> that this issue is squarely covered by the decision of the Hon'ble
> Jurisdictional High Court in IT Appeal No. 1266 (Delhi) of 2010 in the case
> of C.I.T. v. BSES Rajdhani Powers Ltd. vide order dated 31.8.2010 wherein it
> was held that the Court was in agreement with the view of the tribunal that
> the computer peripherals such as printer, scanner etc. form an integral part
> of computer system. In fact the computer accessories and peripherals cannot
> be used without the computer.
5
> Consequently, as they are the part of the computer system, they are entitled
> to depreciation @ 60%. Respectfully following the above precedent, we set
> aside the order of the Assessing Officer and decide the issue in favour of
> the assessee."
9\. It is the further argument of the learned AR that by order dated 14.2.2014
in CIT vs Birlasoft Ltd. (SLP No.20645 of 2012), the Hon'ble Supreme Court
dismissed the departmental appeal against the order of the Hon'ble
jurisdictional High Court in ITA No.71 of 2010 wherein the Delhi High Court
held that the depreciation on computer accessories and peripherals would be
admissible at the rate of 60%. Lastly, he brought to our notice that the
learned DRP while dealing with this aspect in assessee's own case for the AY
2009-10 and 2010-11 followed this legal position and the department also
accepted the same.
10\. In view of the above legal position, we find that the equipment forms
integral part of the computer systems and the assessee is entitled to the
claim of depreciation at 60% by treating the peripherals as part of block of
computers. Grounds No.2 and 2.1 are allowed accordingly.
11\. Coming to the disallowance of TDS receivables written off, it is the
submission of the learned AR that the moment the services are rendered or
goods are dispatched, revenue is recognized and as and when the payment is
received, any shortfall thereof is debited to TDS receivables written off
account. In respect of this amount, neither the TDS certificate is received
nor were the reasons for such shortfall like any deficiency of service known
at that time. When the TDS certificate was issued to the assessee in respect
of the same for TDS credit claim, then the assessee is treating the difference
of the TDS receivables and the TDS certificate issued, as bad debts and
writing off such bad debts in their accounts  6 under the provisions of
36(1)(vii) and claiming the expense under section 36(2) of the Act.
12\. Record reveals that the assessee claimed before the learned AO that the
expense on account of this written off bad debts has to be allowed or in the
alternative, the same may be allowed to the assessee as a business loss.
However, learned AO was of the view that the unclaimed TDS does not form part
of the P&L account and the assessee has the right to recover the same. In
first appellate proceedings, assessee claimed to have produced the party wise
and year-wise break up of TDS recoverable written off supported by the
undertakings of one of the directors of the company stating that the income
corresponding to the TDS written off was duly offered to tax. Learned DRP
stated that there was no evidence of the fact that originally the income was
offered to tax by way of entries in the books of accounts.
13\. Learned AR placed reliance on the decision of the Hon'ble Apex court in
TRF Ltd. vs CIT in Civil Appeal No.5293 & 5294 of 2003 and also a circular
No.12 of 2016 issued by the CBDT pursuant to the order in M/s TRF Ltd.,
clarifying that the claim for bad debts shall be admissible for taxes, if the
said sum is written off as irrecoverable in the books of accounts and the
company should not be required to establish before the tax authorities that
the debt had become irrecoverable. In support of his contention that the claim
for TDS recoverable is allowable, assessee placed reliance on the following
observations of the coordinate bench of this Tribunal in the case of Vertex
Customer Services India (P.) Ltd. vs. DCIT [2017] 88 taxmann.com 286 (Delhi -
Trib.),-
7
> "51. AO/DRP have disallowed an amount of Rs. 5,57,358/- being written off
> advance by the taxpayer on account of TDS recoverable from the vendors and
> amount recoverable in respect of provident funds paid by the taxpayer for
> its vendors. The ld. AR for the taxpayer challenging the impugned
> disallowance contended that excess deduction of TDS and amount recoverable
> in respect of provident fund by the taxpayer from its vendors was due to
> mistake committed in the regular course of business and claimed the same as
> trading loss. AO/DRP disallowed the same that the amount is actually
> recoverable from the vendors but enough efforts were not made by the
> taxpayer and as such, it cannot be treated as business losses.
> 52\. We are of the considered view that the disallowance made by the AO/DRP
> is allowable on two grounds : (i) when the same has become bad debts and
> written off by the taxpayer and books of account have not been challenged;
> and (ii) even otherwise, it is trading losses suffered by the taxpayer due
> to bonafide mistake committed during the regular course of business and as
> such is allowable business expenditure. So, grounds no.5, 6 & 7 are
> determined in favour of the taxpayer and disallowance made by the AO/DRP
> stands deleted."
14\. In view of the above factual and legal position, it has become necessary
to verify whether the assessee had recognized the income as and when the
services are rendered or goods are dispatched and subsequently, whether the
assessee written off the difference amount of deficit payment and the amount
under the TDS certificate issued, in their books of accounts. It would be
conveniently verified by the learned AO and if he finds that initially the
assessee recognized the total invoice amount and subsequently, identified the
bad debt with reference to the deficit payment by the party and the amount
under TDS certificate issued. On verification of compliance with these two
conditions, learned AO will allow this expense. Ground Nos.3 and 3.1 are
allowed for statistical purposes.
8
15\. Grounds No. 4 to 4.2 are in respect of the allocation of common expenses
to the unit claiming benefit u/s 10A. It is the argument of the learned AR
that vide para 5.2, learned AO observed that in the absence of details
provided by the assessee, travelling expenses of the directors and legal and
professional expenses incurred by the company, 5% of the total travelling
expenses which may be relatable to the director's travelling needs to be
apportioned amongst 10A and non 10A units in the proportion of their turnover.
It is the argument of the assessee before the learned DRP that the support
functions were separately maintained for STP unit, as such, all direct costs
pertaining to STP units were directly charged to the P&L account of the STP
unit. It was further stated that the common cost have already been apportioned
on the basis of turnover and the managerial remuneration was incurred on
directors of telecom division and the said directors have nothing to do with
the STP unit, as such, the question of allocation does not arise. The DRP did
not agree with the assessee.
16\. It is argued by the learned AR that direct cost incurred in respect of
STP unit was charged to STP unit itself and it does not call for any further
allocation, inasmuch as the directors of the telecom division never performed
any functions for STP unit.
17\. It is further brought to our notice that in the order of the learned AO
vide paragraph No.5.3, learned AO committed a mistake by deducting the amount
allocated to the STP unit from its net profit and instead of doing so, the
learned AO should have deducted the same from the assessee's operating income,
because of which instead of going, the profit earned by the STP unit has come
down. He demonstrated to us that while recomputing the deduction available to
9 the 10A unit, the AO made the profit of the 10A unit at Rs.15,93,92,715/- as
the starting point and instead of doing so the AO should have taken the
revenue of the unit at Rs.85,80,77,527/- and start reducing it from operating
expenses, in which case the net profit would have been Rs.18,90,37,206/-
instead of Rs.14,07,77,997/- as reached by the learned AO.
18\. Having gone through the record, we are convinced that the facts of the
case require the AO to verify whether the recomputation of the deductible
amount is properly done, in the light of the submission that the deduction of
the amount allocated to the STP unit's net profit is incorrect and instead of
the same the learned AO should have deducted the same from the assessee's
operating income. For this purpose, we remand issue No.4 to 4.2 to the learned
AO for verification. Grounds Nos. 4 to 4.2 are allowed for statistical
purposes.
19\. Now coming to Ground No.5 to 5.4, i.e. in respect of the disallowance u/s
40A(i) of the Act, the learned AO found from para 13.8 to the notes of
accounts that the assessee had incurred expenditure in foreign currency under
the head 'royalty' to the tune of Rs.4.25 crores and other to the tune of
Rs.16.55 crores. There is no dispute in respect of the royalty expenditure.
The break up figure relating to the other expenditure of Rs.16.55 crore shows
that out of such amount, an amount of Rs.4,35,81,838/- was in respect of the
unit claiming deduction under section 10A of the Act, which the Ld. AO
disallowed, and Rs.12,19,74,482/- was in respect of other business not
entitled to any tax holiday benefit. Again, out of this Rs.12,19,74,482/-,
learned AO satisfied with the explanation of the assessee except in relation
to two expenses. One is Rs.72,74,728/- classified under the head 'Repairs' and
Rs.1,83,43,136/- under the  10 head 'accruals in respect of projects'.
Therefore, the dispute under this ground revolves around the deduction of
Rs.4,35,81,838/- claimed in respect of 10A of the Act, Rs.72,74,728/- in
respect of repairs and Rs.1,83,43,136/- in respect of accruals in respect of
projects.
20\. In respect of the deduction of Rs.4,35,81,838/- claimed in respect of 10A
of the Act, it was the submission of the assessee that the TDS in respect of
the expenditure incurred by 10A units of the assessee was duly complied and
even otherwise inasmuch as 10A unit is entitled to 100% deduction u/s 10A of
the Act, any disallowance u/s 40(a) of the Act will not impact the tax
liability of such unit. The prayer of the learned AR is that if the
disallowance is not deleted, the learned AO may be directed to increase the
corresponding deduction also.
21\. In this regard reliance is placed on the order passed by the Gujarat High
Court in case of ITO vs. Keval Constructions 354 ITR 013 (guj.) wherein while
dealing with a similar issue, the court held as under:-
> "5. Having heard counsel on both the questions today in this appeal, we find
> no error in the Tribunal's ultimate conclusion. Even if a certain
> expenditure which was incurred by the assessee for the purpose of developing
> housing project was not allowable by virtue of section 40(a)(ia) of the Act,
> since the assessee had not deducted the tax at source as required under law,
> it cannot be denied that such disallowance would ultimately go to increase
> the assessee's profit from the business of developing housing project.
> Whatever be the ultimate profit of the assessee as computed even after
> making disallowance under section 40(a)(ia) of the Act, would qualify for
> deduction as provided under the law. No question of law, therefore, arises.
> The tax appeal is dismissed."
22\. Reliance is also placed on the order of the Ahmadabad Income Tax
Appellate Tribunal ('Tribunal') in the case of DCIT vs. Ascendum Solutions
India  11 (P.) Ltd. [2017] 86 taxmann.com 114 (Ahmadabad - Trib.) wherein
while dealing with an identical issue it has been held as under:-
> "6. What has been accepted by the CBDT, as learned counsel rightly points
> out, is the principle that when a disallowance results in an enhancement of
> business profits but such an enhancement is revenue neutral inasmuch as
> related business profits, in totality, are eligible for deduction under
> chapter VI, such appeals need not be pursued. The reference to Section
> 40(a)(ia) is no more than illustrative in nature, and what holds good for
> disallowance under section 40(a)(ia) applies, in principle, equally to
> disallowance under section 40(a)(i) as well. In this view of the matter, in
> terms of the CBDT circular (supra), the appeal filed by the Assessing
> Officer, on this point, is indeed not maintainable. As regards the point
> made by the learned counsel that the non-deduction of tax at source from
> payments made to the non-residents must be dealt with at a different level,
> and bearing in mind the need to protect our tax base, we can only point out
> that lapses with respect to tax withholding obligations from payments made
> to non-residents is visited with several type of consequences- disallowance
> under section 40(a)(i), recovery under section 201, penalty under section
> 271C and, in certain situations, even prosecution under section 276B. What
> we are dealing with right now is a limited aspect of the matter having
> impact on computation of taxable income, and while dealing with this limited
> aspect of the matter, we must not bother about the considerations which are
> not germane to this context. As for the present context, the issue raised in
> the appeal, given the settled legal position, is wholly academic and revenue
> neutral, and, in the light of the CBDT instructions which bind all the field
> authorities under section 119 of the Act, cannot be pursued by the
> appellant. We, therefore, see no need to even deal with the matter on merits
> in the context of the present proceedings, even as we take on record learned
> counsel's submission that, even on merits, the issue is now covered in
> favour of the assessee and that the assessee did not have any obligations to
> deduct tax at source at all. That aspect of the matter is wholly academic.
> In view of these discussions, and bearing in mind entirety of the case, we
> uphold the preliminary objection of the assessee and dismiss this ground of
> appeal as not maintainable."
23\. In this set of facts and circumstances, we are satisfied that the
disallowance under section 40(a)(i) of the Act is revenue neutral and the
learned AO is directed to allow the corresponding deduction to the assessee
u/s 10A of the Act.
12
24\. Coming to the disallowance of Rs.72,74,728/-, according to the assessee,
this expenditure represents the purchase of spares from foreign affiliates and
inasmuch as it constitutes business income to the foreign entity and since
there is no permanent establishment in India such income cannot be brought to
tax in India. However, according to the learned AO, this expense represent the
payments in the nature of FTS attracting TDS.
25\. It is submitted by the learned AR that the assessee filed the copies of
invoices raised by the aforesaid entities but the learned DRP did not grant
any relief to the assessee. According to the assessee, these payments were
made to the nonresident on account of purchase of spare parts. The assessee
also filed an application for admitting the additional evidence in the form of
sample invoices evidencing the nature of purchase of spares for repair. Having
regard to the facts and circumstances of the case and in view of the
contention of the assessee that no services being received by the assessee
except the spare parts under the invoices submitted, we are of the considered
opinion that the material needs to be received in evidence has to be sent to
the learned AO for verification to decide whether it is the purchase of the
spare parts or the payments represent FTS. With this view of the matter, we
allow the additional evidence to be filed and send it to the AO for
verification.
26\. In so far as the accruals in respect of projects is concerned, the case
of the assessee is that the said amount represents provisions created in the
books of accounts in respect of accruals made for various ongoing projects, as
the invoices in respect of concerned supplies/expenses are not received at the
end of the year, the same were provided as accrued in the books of accounts,
immediately upon  13 receipt of the invoice from identifiable parties, tax
withholding in respect of the said amount is made and credited the same in the
books of accounts. It is submitted that immediately upon deduction of tax,
other compliances like issuance of certificate, furnishing of prescribed
quarterly statements are made.
27\. Learned AO rejected the contentions of the assessee stating that the
details of nature of services of accruals in respect of projects have not been
furnished and therefore, it cannot be claimed that these are not for technical
services. It is the argument of the learned AR that these are the amounts on
an estimate basis where the parties in respect of various ongoing projects
were not identified and the invoices in respect of concerned supplies/expenses
were not received. He further submits that wherever required tax withholding
made immediately on receipt of invoice from identifiable parties and the
credit of the same was made in the books of accounts.
28\. In this regard, reliance was placed by the Assessee on the decision of
this Tribunal in the case of Apollo Tyres Ltd. vs. Deputy Commissioner of
Income Tax (78 taxmann.com 195) wherein it has been held as under:-
> "12. At the time of hearing before us, learned DR has referred to the above
> section so as to buttress his argument that tax is to be deducted even if
> there is provision of the amount payable. The ITAT, Cochin Bench in the case
> of Abad Builders (P) Ltd. (supra), after considering the above provision,
> has held that tax is to be deducted even in respect of provision for
> expenses. However, the ITAT, Chennai Bench in the case of Dishnet Wireless
> Ltd. (supra) has held that in the case of the year end provision where the
> party/payee is identifiable, the TDS is to be deducted and where the party
> is not identifiable, no TDS is deductible. Similar view has been taken by
> the ITAT Mumbai Bench in the case of Industrial Development Bank of India
> (supra). After considering the scheme of Chapter XVII- B with regard to tax
> deduction at source, we agree with the views expressed by ITAT Mumbai Bench
> and ITAT Chennai Bench. As per the scheme of TDS under  14 Chapter XVII-B
> Section 199, the credit for the TDS is to be given to the deductee. Thus,
> the identification of the person from whose account income tax was deducted
> at source is a pre-requisite condition so as to make the provision for
> Chapter XVII-B workable. Tax deducted at source is considered to be tax paid
> on behalf of the person from whose income the deduction was made and,
> therefore, the credit for the same is to be given to such person. When the
> payee is not identifiable, to whose account the credit for such TDS is to be
> given. Section 203(1) lays down that for all tax deductions at source, the
> tax deductor has to furnish a certificate to the person to whose account
> such credit is to be given. Therefore, when the tax deductor cannot
> ascertain the payee who is the beneficiary of a credit of tax deduction at
> source, the mechanism of Chapter XVII- B cannot be put into service."
29\. It is submitted by the learned AR that by way of additional evidence the
screen shot of SAP entries for creation of provision for project accruals are
produced and this evidence clearly establish that year end provisions were
reversed in subsequent years. It is further submitted that the provision was
created to follow the matching concept of accounting entries in accordance
with accounting standards, without actual identity of payees being known. He
further submitted that there is no dispute from the revenue that the said
expenses are otherwise allowable for tax purposes. Basing on this, he
submitted that in the absence of requirement of withholding tax at source, no
disallowance is warranted under section 40(a)(i) of the Act.
30\. On a careful consideration of the contentions, we are of the considered
opinion that inasmuch as the payees are not identifiable, it would not be
possible for the assessee to deposit any TDS even in case of its deduction. We
are, therefore, deem it just and proper to direct the learned AO has to verify
from the evidence to be produced by the assessee relating to the creation of
provisions for project accruals and the year end reversal of such provisions,
and accordingly to  15 delete the disallowance. This ground is set aside to
the file of learned AO for verification.
31\. Insofar as the Transfer Pricing issues are concerned, during the
scrutiny, learned AO observed that the assessee entered into the following
international transactions:
S. International Transactions Segment Amount (INR) No.
      1       Purchase   of          Raw-materials   and
                                                                          428,172,674
              components
      2       Export of finished goods                                    18,711,838
      3       Payment of Royalty                                          42,506,831
                                                           Telecommunicat
      4       Availing of services                         ion Segment    70,176,029
      5       Commission Income                                           7,212,421
      6       Reimbursement of expenses to AEs                            8,402,472
      7       Reimbursement of expenses by AEs                            23,807,212
      8       Provision of Software Services                              1,673,082,480
      9       Availing of services                                        12,363,736
                                                           Software
                                                           Segment
      10      Purchase of software                                        14,567,640
      11      Reimbursement of expenses by AEs                            112,102,011
32\. Hence, the matter was referred to the Transfer Pricing Officer (for short
called "TPO") for determination of the arm's length price of the international
16 transaction. The dispute before the TPO relates only to the software
segment of the assessee.
33\. Assessee as a tested party has been characterized as provider of software
development services to its AEs which had used Transactional Net Margin Method
(TNMM) as the most appropriate method for its benchmarking of international
transaction. Search for uncontrolled comparables was made using Prowess and
Capitoline database by the Assessee in its Transfer Pricing Study. Assessee
had taken 16 comparables in its TP study with an arithmetic mean of 9.71%.
Assessee computed its profit level indicator (PLI) at 4.26% on cost which was
falling within the arm's length range of +/-5%.
34\. Learned TPO accepted TNMM as the most appropriate method and also the
PLI. The limited difference in approach adopted by the TPO and the Assessee
was with respect to selection of comparables. During the course of assessment
proceedings, the Assessee submitted updated margins of 14 comparable
companies.
35\. However, learned TPO rejected 4 comparables selected by the Assessee and
selected remaining 10 comparables. Further, learned TPO performed a detailed
analysis and introduced additional 15 comparables, thereby selected a final
set of 25 comparables with a PLI of 28.16%. Accordingly, transfer pricing
adjustment of Rs. 38,36,90,639 was made. However, subsequently, as stated
above, learned TPO in compliance to the directions issued by the Dispute
resolution Panel (DRP) passed supplementary order wherein Cybermate Infotek
Limited was excluded from the final set of comparables and made final TP  17
adjustment at INR 31,77,69,775 in respect of international transaction related
to provision of software development services.
36\. Assessing Officer ("learned AO") framed assessment and passed final
assessment order under section 143(3) of the Income Tax Act, 1961 on
30.11.2011. Assessee is aggrieved by the inclusion of 18 companies which the
assessee objected, exclusion of three companies which are desired by the
assessee to be included and non grant of the working capital adjustment.
COMPARABLE COMPANIES SOUGHT TO BE EXCLUDED BY THE ASSESSEE FOR BENCHMARKING OF
ITS INTERNATIONAL TRANSACTION
37\. Assessee is disputing the inclusion of the following 18 out of 24
comparables finally selected by the Ld. TPO.
1\. Bodhtree Consulting Limited
2\. Cat Technologies Limited
3\. E-Infochips Bangalore Limited
4\. E-Infochips Limited
5\. FCS Software Solutions Limited
6\. Goldstone Technologies Limited
7\. Helios & Matheson Information Technology Limited
8\. I Gate Global Solutions Limited
9\. Infosys Limited
10\. Kals Information Systems Limited (Segmental)
11\. LGS Global Limited
12\. Larsen & Toubro Infotech Limited
13\. Mindtree Limited
14\. Persistent Systems Limited
15\. Quintegra Solutions Limited
16\. R Systems International Limited (Segmental)
17\. Softsol India Limited
18\. Tata Elxsi Limited (Segmental)  18
38\. We find from the order of the TPO, that the assessee is a wholly owned
subsidiary of NSNPL, which in turn is a wholly owned subsidiary of Nokia
Siemens Networks B.V. The company is engaged in the business of manufacturing
and trading of telecommunication network equipments and network design,
installation and commissioning. The company also provides support services to
major telecom and IP service providers. NSNIPL also develops telecom software
for its AEs. The company's product and solution portfolio comprises Switching,
Transmission, VoIP. Next Generation Networks like SURPASS, intelligent
Network, Microwave solutions, Mobile data solutions, 2.5G and 3G networks
including GPRS, EDGE and UMTS, Radio, Broadband, Access products apart from
services encompassing related products and systems. We shall now proceed to
deal with the contentions on either side in detail on the aspect of
comparability of the disputed entities with the assessee.
39\. At the outset learned DR brought to our notice that out of the 18
disputed comparables, the assessee had accepted 4 comparables, namely, Helios
& Matheson Information Technology Ltd., I Gate Global Solutions Ltd, Mindtree
Limited, Quintegra Solutions Limited for the assessment year 2007-08 and,
therefore, it is not open for the assessee to dispute such comparables for
this assessment year.
40\. Learned AR placed reliance on the decision reported in Rampgreen
Solutions (P.) Ltd. vs. CIT [2015] 377 ITR 533 (Delhi), Chryscapital
Investment Advisors (India) (P.)Ltd. vs. DCIT [2015] 376 ITR 183 (Delhi) and
submitted that the functionality of an entity is the key determinative factor
for its inclusion or exclusion from the list of comparables and there is no
such thing as estoppel on  19 the ground of assessee accepting the entity as
functionally comparable in a previous assessment year.
41\. On a careful perusal of the decisions relied upon by the assessee, we
find ourselves in agreement with the submission that in order to decide the
comparability of an entity, the key determinative factor is its functionality
but not the acceptance or rejection by any of the parties. Consent does not
make an otherwise functionally dissimilar entity, a better comparable. We,
therefore, find it difficult to reject the objections of the assessee in
respect of these comparables.
Bodhtree Consulting Limited:
42\. Assessee objects this company on the ground of functional difference and
non-availability of segmental information. According to the Assessee the
company is engaged in diversified set of services and segmental data is not
available. Ld. TPO rejected assessee's contention on the ground that it is
engaged in software development segment and that this company was accepted by
the TPO for AY 2007-08, but as a matter of fact this comparable was never
considered by the TPO in the previous year. Ld. DRP dismissed the objections
of the assessee.
43\. From Page No 12 of the Paper book containing Annexure II to the
Directors' report, a part of the annual report of the company, we find that
this company is engaged in only one segment which comprises of income from
software development, open and end to end web solutions, software consultancy
designs and software products; whereas the Assessee is engaged in rendering
software development services. Under Note 5 "Segmental Information", it is
stated that  20 the company has only one identifiable reporting segment that
is software development service, showing that no separate segmental finances
relating to the software development open and end-to-end web solutions,
software consultancy designs and software products are available.
44\. It is argued on behalf of the assessee that this company is following a
different pricing model, as is evident from the annual report to be found at
paper book page No. 24 that the revenues from software development is
recognized based on software developed and billed to the client whereas the
assessee is a captive software developer for its AE's.
45\. Ld. AR placed reliance on a decision of this Tribunal in ITA No.
6402/DEL/2012 (AY 2008-09) in the case of Aircom International (India) Pvt Ltd
v DCIT, (2017) 50 CCH 0280 (hereinafter "Aircom") in support of his plea that
Bodhtree is engaged in providing open and end-to-end web solutions, software
consultancy, design and development of solutions, using the latest
technologies and not comparable with the company which is into the business of
software development and providing related services to its AE. The coordinate
Bench in the judgment of Aircom (supra) has excluded this comparable company
by making following observations :
> "15.2. We find from the Annual report of this company that it: "has only one
> segment, namely, software development. Being a software solutions company,
> which is engaged in providing open and end-to-end web solutions, software
> consultancy, design and development of solutions, using the latest
> technologies." Thus, it can be seen that this company is providing end-to-
> end solutions and also consultancy which is not the case with the assessee
> company. Another relevant factor to be noticed is Page 1254 of the paper
> book, which divulges the significant accounting policies of this company.
> Under the head 'Revenue recognition', it has been mentioned that: "revenue
> 21 from software development is recognized based on software developed and
> billed to clients." As against this, the Schedule forming part of the
> accounts of the assessee company provides for revenue recognition in the
> terms: "revenue from software developed is recognized over the contracted
> period of development on cost plus basis." It can be seen that there is a
> lot of difference in the revenue and recognition models of the assessee was
> well as Bodhtree Consulting Ltd. This factor, in addition to the functional
> dissimilarity as discussed above, makes this company noncomparable with the
> assessee company. We, therefore, order to exclude it from the list of
> comparables."
46\. There is no dispute that the Aircom is also into the business of software
development and providing related services to its AE. We are, therefore, of
the considered opinion that being a software solutions company which is
engaged in providing open and end-to-end web solutions, software consultancy,
design and development of solutions, using the latest technologies, Bodhtree
company cannot be compared to the assessee which is a captive software
developer for its AE's.
Cat Technologies Limited:
47\. This company was objected by the assessee on the ground that it is
engaged in diversified set of services and also that the segmental data is not
available, but the Ld. that TPO included this company in the set of
comparables.
48\. From page No. 94 of the paper book where the segmental reporting is
mentioned, we found that the company is dealing in Medical Transcription,
Training software development and consultancy services. Further vide Note No.
7 to the notes on accounts it is stated that the company considered whole of
India as a single geographical segment. Vide page No. 94 at schedule No. 9,
the software development and consulting services are clubbed together. No
separate  22 credentials are available. It's also argued that the annual
report of the comparable also does not disclose sufficient related party
disclosures.
49\. Inasmuch as the company is dealing with software development and
consulting services as well as medical transcription and no separate
financials in respect of the software development from consulting services are
available, we are of the considered opinion that this company is not a good
comparable with the assessee.
E - Infochips Bangalore Limited:
50\. Assessee objected the inclusion of this company on the ground that the
company was engaged in diversified set of services and segmental data was not
available. Ld. TPO rejected the said objection stating that there was nothing
in the annual report to suggest that the company was in the business of
product engineering and semiconductor design services.
51\. From page No. 116 of the paper book under the caption segment
information, we find that the company is engaged in software development and
IT enabled services, but from schedule 8 it is found that both the segments
are clubbed under the heading 'income from software services'. This clearly
shows that no separate segmental information is available in respect of
software development and IT enabled services. Further, it is submitted on
behalf of the assessee that the Ld. DRP rejected this comparable in respect of
the year 2010-11 in assessee's own case on the ground of functional
dissimilarity, and held that the company is engaged in high-end technology
driven services and product development. We also found from page numbers 111
and 116 of the paper book  23 that the entity level profitability was taken
into consideration and no segmental bifurcation of cost is available.
52\. It is not in dispute on behalf of the revenue that the Ld. DRP rejected
this company as a comparable in respect of the assessment year 2010-11 on the
ground of functional dissimilarity holding that the company is engaged in
high- end technology driven services and product development. Having regard to
this fact coupled with the situation that no segmental data is available in
respect of the software development and the IT enabled services separately, we
do not consider this company as a right comparable.
E - Infochips Limited:
53\. Assessee's objection for an inclusion of this company in the set of
comparables on the ground of diversified set of services and non-availability
of the segmental data was rejected by the Ld. TPO on the ground that as per
the annual report the company was only deriving income from software
development services.
54\. However from a reading of the note 13 of the notes on account found at
page No. 146 of the paper book, we find that the company is primarily engaged
in software development and IT enabled services but profit and loss account of
this company incorporated at page No. 134 of the paper book with a schedule 7
forming part of profit and loss account at page No. 141 thereof do not show
any separate segmental data in respect of these two segments.
55\. It is also submitted on behalf of the assessee that this company is also
engaged in product engineering services and semiconductor design services as
24 evident from the financial statements. Note No. 16 of the note on account
shows that this company is engaged in the development and maintenance of
computer software and also manufacturing EVM and VDB electronic board.
56\. The Assessee is relying on the order passed by this Tribunal in the case
of Saxo India Ltd v ACIT [2017] 397 ITR 160 (Delhi) in support of his
contention that a company deriving its income from software development,
hardware maintenance, information technology, consultancy etc. is not a good
comparable with the assessee and for excluding this comparable from the final
set of comparable. It was held as follows:-
> "10.2. After considering the rival submissions and perusing the relevant
> material on record, we find that the Annual report of this company is
> available in the paper book with its Profit and loss account at page 1025.
> Schedule of Income indicates its operating revenue from software
> development, hardware maintenance, information technology, consultancy etc.
> Revenue from hardware maintenance stands at Rs. 3.92 crore, which has been
> considered by the Transfer Pricing Officer himself as sale of products. Such
> sale of products constitutes 15% of total revenue. There is no segmental
> information available as regards the revenue from sale of products and
> revenue from software development segment. As the assessee is simply engaged
> in rendering software development services and there is no sale of any
> software products, this company, in our considered opinion, ceases to be
> comparable. It is obvious that from the common pool of income from both the
> streams of software products and software services, one cannot deduce the
> revenue from software services and no one knows the impact of revenue from
> Products on the overall kitty of profit, which may be significant. Since no
> segmental data of this company is available indicating operating profit from
> software development services, we order to exclude this company from the
> list of comparables."
57\. It is further submitted on behalf of the assessee that Ld. TPO has erred
in taking the entity level profitability. The sales figure taken by the TPO is
25 Rs.24.03Crores, which includes the revenue from software services as well
as income from sale of software products. In the light of same, it is apparent
that the PLI arrived at by the TPO is incorrect as same does not represent the
margin of the software segment, as no segmental data is available.
58\. In the light of above, we are satisfied that E-Infochips Limited is
functionally dissimilar to the Assessee and accordingly it is to be excluded
from the final set of comparable companies for benchmarking international
transaction related to software segment.
FCS Software Solutions Limited:
59\. Much against the objections of the assessee, Ld. TPO selected this
company as a comparable on the ground that it passed all the filters. Ld. DRP
confirmed the same.
60\. However from page No. 222 of the paper book, we find that this company is
dealing in IT consulting services, e-learning and digital consulting,
application support 24/7, and infrastructure management services. However, the
profit and loss account incorporated at page Nos. 236 and 253 of the paper
book show that the revenues from all the services are bundled into software
development and other services. P.1.20 of the notes on account at page No. 266
of the paper book shows that the financials are on the lines of geographical
segments like India and the USA, but not on the lines of the functional
segments. Further, P.2.4 at page No. 268 of the paper book reads that the
company is engaged in the software consultancy, technical support services,
e-learning and other related allied  26 services and these services cannot be
expressed in any generic unit and it is not possible to give the quantitative
details of sales.
61\. Assessee submitted that a company which is in E-learning and Digital
Consultancy cannot be compared to a captive software developer like assessee,
and relied on the order passed by this Tribunal, in case of Tibco Software
India Pvt. Ltd. v DCIT, [2015] 56 taxmann.com 91 (Pune-Trib), (AY 2008-09) to
exclude this company from the final set of comparable. This Tribunal, in the
case of Tibco(supra), ordered to exclude this comparable company by making
following observations:-
> "24. Moreover, the assessee had referred to the following extract from the
> Annual Report of the said concern in relation to the E-learning and Digital
> Consulting before the TPO to say that it is in the nature of IT enabled
> services:- "E-learning and Digital Consulting Services: US corporations look
> at E-learning of web / CD based training programs as one of the ways to
> achieve organizational growth and improved business performance.
> "E-learning helps employees, vendors, and dealers of a company to better
> their performance and deal with fast-changing environments. E-learning makes
> training highly efficient, by making it available anytime, anywhere and
> reduces total cost of training. E-learning is used to train employees,
> customers and service technicians on product knowledge, concepts,
> strategies, risk and finance, compliance and technology."
> 25\. Ostensibly, the aforesaid services involve setting up of support
> centres and remote maintenance, which have been duly categorized as ITES by
> the CBDT's Circular dated 26.09.2000 itself, which has been reproduced by
> the TPO in the impugned order. Therefore, even the said segment is not to be
> included as part of the software development services, as asserted by the
> assessee. Once the segment of application support and infrastructure
> management services are removed along with the exclusion of E-learning and
> Digital consulting segment, then the income of the said concern from
> software development services falls below 75% of its total income and
> therefore, it deserves to be excluded even on the basis of the filter
> applied by the TPO. Thus, on this aspect, assessee succeeds."
62\. Since this company is engaged in a diversified fields and deriving
revenues from different sources, the functional segmental information in
respect of  27 revenue and cost is not available, and the information relating
to the geographical segmentation is not at all helpful for comparison of this
company with the assessee, we find that FCS Software Solutions Limited is
functionally dissimilar to the Assessee and accordingly it is to be excluded
from the final set of comparable companies for benchmarking international
transaction related to software segment.
Goldstone Technologies Limited:
63\. According to the assessee this company is functionally dissimilar to that
of the Assessee as it is engaged into application services, product
enhancement and support services, enterprise application integration, java
migration and infrastructure management services which nowhere can be said to
be comparable to the software services rendered by the Assessee to its AE.
Further, the financial statements lack in providing the segmental results as
well. On a perusal of the annual report of this company from page numbers 89
and 290 of the paper book, we find this statement to be true. Further the
business segment information provided at 9.1 at page number P22 of the paper
book shows that Goldstone Technologies Ltd., during the year had introduced
two additional divisions namely, Media and IP TV. Further, as is evident from
page No. 303 of the paper book, the company had carried inventory of set top
boxes and movie rights in its balance sheet for the previous year.
64\. Schedule 5-forming part of balance sheet under the head 'investments-
cost' at page No. 314 of the paper book coupled with Note No. 3 of the notes
on accounts at page No. 320 of the paper book, shows that during the year
under consideration, the company has undergone exceptional circumstances as it
has  28 acquired its wholly owned subsidiary namely, Staytop Systems Inc, USA
and acquired 51% stake in 4G Informatics Private Limited.
65\. Lastly it is contended on behalf of the assessee that this comparable was
rejected as a comparable by the learned TPO in Assessee's own case for AY
2010- 11 owing to functional dissimilarity since the company is engaged in
rendering ITES services. This assertion on behalf of the assessee is not
controverted by the Revenue.
66\. Reliance has been placed on order passed by this Tribunal in case of
Emptoris Technologies India Pvt. Ltd. v DCIT [2016] 67 taxmann.com 279 (Pune -
Trib.) (AY 2008-09) to the effect that Goldstone Technologies Ltd. was engaged
in the activities related to Media & IP TV and further, the company had
carried inventory of set top boxes and movie rights in its Balance Sheet for
the previous year, and it has to be excluded from the final set of comparable.
The coordinate Bench in the judgment of Emptoris (supra), ordered to exclude
this comparable company by making following observations:-
> "17. The learned Authorized Representative for the assessee pointed out that
> before the DRP, it was pointed out that the said concern Goldstone
> Technologies Ltd. was engaged in the activities related to Media & IP TV and
> further, the company had carried inventory of set top boxes and movie rights
> in its Balance Sheet for the previous year. In addition, the said company
> had some income from sale of industrial material. Looking at the services
> provided by the said concern, it is clear that the same are functionally
> dissimilar to the services provided by the assessee and there is no merit in
> comparing the results of the said concern while benchmarking the
> international transaction of the assessee. Accordingly, we direct the
> Assessing Officer to exclude Goldstone Technologies Ltd."
29
67\. In view of the functional dissimilarity coupled with the fact that there
were extraordinary events during the year, we find that this company has to be
excluded from the final set of comparable companies for benchmarking
international transaction related to software segment.
Helios & Matheson Information Technology Limited:
68\. Assessee objected the inclusion of this company on the ground that it is
functionally different. However, Ld. TPO included it on the ground that the
diversified services pointed out by the assessee were part of the software
development segment and it could not be said that this company was
functionally dissimilar to the assessee.
69\. The "business and results of operations" to be found on page numbers 376
and 377 of the paper book clearly show that this company is engaged into
providing end-to-end services in the healthcare sector and also into the sale
of software which is quite different from the software services rendered by
the assessee to its AEs.
70\. Revenue from operations shown under schedule 1 at page No. 415 of the
paper book show that the income from software sales and services is bundled up
and the segment reporting at page No. 419 reads that the company is operating
in a single segment and the risk and reward is the same for the segment in all
the locations and hence segment reporting is not applicable to the company. It
is further submitted on behalf of the assessee that, the employee cost filter
cannot be ascertained from the financials.
30
71\. The Assessee also submitted that the revenue recognition model of this
comparable is also different from the revenue recognition model of the
Assessee. According to the revenue recognition policy of the company to be
found on page 416 of the paper book Annual Reports paper book Vol - II, -
> "revenue from software services and projects comprise income from time and
> material and fixed price contracts. Revenue from time and material contracts
> is recognized using percentage of completion method calculated as a
> percentage of the cost of efforts incurred up to the reporting date to
> estimated total cost of efforts. Maintenance revenue is recognized over the
> period of underlying maintenance contracts, interest receipt is recognized
> on accrual basis. Dividend is recognized on receipt basis.
> Unbilled revenue primarily comprises the revenue recognized in relation to
> efforts incurred up on fixed price, fixed time frame contracts until the
> balance sheet date."
72\. Reliance has been placed on order passed by this Tribunal in the case of
PTC Software (India) Private Limited [2017] 86 taxmann.com 122 (Pune - Trib.)
(AY 2008-09), wherein, it was found that Helios & Matheson Information
Technology Ltd. is engaged in rendering ITES including BPO services, Offshore
delivery, Project management services, etc. and that this company was
functionally incomparable to software development firms by making following
observations:-
> "15. The ld. Counsel for the assessee submitted that the third company that
> should be excluded from the final list of comparables is Helios & Matheson
> Information Technology Ltd. The said company should be excluded on the
> ground of functional disparity. The ld. Counsel contended that Helios &
> Matheson Information Technology Ltd. is engaged in rendering ITES including
> BPO services, Offshore delivery, Project management services, etc.
> Therefore, the services rendered by Helios & Matheson Information Technology
> Ltd. are not comparable to ITS rendered by the assessee. The ld. Counsel
> submitted that in assessee's own case in assessment year  31 2007-08 the
> Tribunal has excluded Helios & Matheson Information Technology Ltd. from the
> list of comparables.
> 16\. On the other hand the ld. DR vehemently defended the findings of TPO in
> including Helios & Matheson Information Technology Ltd. in the final set of
> comparables.
> 17\. Both sides heard. Orders of the authorities below perused. We find that
> the Co-ordinate Bench of the Tribunal in assessee's own case in assessment
> year 2007-08 have excluded Helios & Matheson Information Technology Ltd.
> from the final list of comparables for the reasons similar to exclude Kals
> Information Systems Ltd. The relevant extract of the findings of the order
> of Tribunal has already been reproduced in para 7 here-in- above. For the
> sake of brevity and to avoid repetitiveness we are not extracting the same
> reasons here again. The Hon'ble High Court has confirmed the findings of
> Tribunal in hold Helios & Matheson Information Technology Ltd. as not
> comparable on account of functional differences. The ld. DR has not been
> able to place on record any material to show any change in the facts and
> circumstances in the assessment year under appeal. Therefore, following the
> decision of Co-ordinate Bench in assessment year 2007-08 we direct the
> Assessing Officer/TPO to exclude Helios & Matheson Information Technology
> Ltd. from the final set of comparables."
73\. Further, assessee also placed reliance on the judgment of Bangalore
Tribunal in the case of NMS Communication Private Ltd. v DCIT, [2016] 68
taxmann.com 72 (Bangalore-Trib) in support of their contention that Helios is
not a good comparable for the assessee which renders captive software
development service as its main revenue is from sale of software.
74\. In view of the fact that this company was found to have been engaged in
rendering IT has including BPO services, offshore delivery, project management
services etc and no segmental information is available, we find it difficult
to hold that this company could be continued as a good comparable. We,
therefore, direct the exclusion of this company from the final set of
comparable companies for benchmarking international transaction related to
software segment.
32
iGate Global Solution Limited:
75\. On the ground of functional dissimilarity the assessee objected the
inclusion of this company in the set of comparables, but the Ld. TPO proceeded
to include the same on the ground that it passed all the filters.
76\. A reading of the segmental reporting to be found at page No. 531 of the
paper book shows that the company is engaged in providing information
technology services, contact centre services and IT enabled services,
delivered to customers globally across the geographies, they were to being
performed on-site and offshore. A reading of the financials to be found at
page number 498, 509 and 511 shows that the financial statements lack in
providing the segmental results. Further, the heading "subsidiaries and joint
ventures" at page No. 499 and the heading "Merger of iGate Technology Services
Private Limited" at page No. 507 show that in addition to the same, it is
pertinent to note that there has been an exceptional event during the year,
i.e. the company is wholly owned subsidiary iGate Technology Services Private
Limited has been amalgamated and accordingly, the financials include the
effect of the same.
77\. Considering the non-availability of the segmental information coupled
with the fact that that the company has an exceptional event of operations,
makes this company excludable from the final set of comparable companies for
the present year under consideration.
Infosys Technologies Limited:
78\. This company is undoubtedly a corporate giant with its large scale of
operations vis--vis the Assessee company; that it had a brand impact to  33
determine the premium pricing; that it has a different model of revenue
recognition. It is submitted on behalf of the assessee that this comparable
has been rejected in Assessee's own case in immediately preceding year, i.e.
AY 2007- 08 by the Tribunal on account of different risk profile, scale,
nature of services, revenue ownership of branded/ proprietary products, onsite
and offshore services etc. This fact is not contradicted by the revenue.
79\. Further, the Assessee has placed reliance on Aircom (supra), in order to
exclude this comparable company on the basis of its magnitude. The coordinate
bench has rejected this comparable by making following observations:-
> "17.2. We have considered the rival submissions and perused the relevant
> material on record. It can be seen that the TPO has included this company in
> the list of comparables by rejecting the assessee's contentions. The
> assessee is providing and assigning software services to its AE alone
> without acquiring any intellectual property rights in the work done by it in
> the development of software. The Hon'ble Delhi High Court in CIT vs. Agnity
> India Technologies (P) Ltd. (2013) 219 Taxmann 26 (Del) considered the
> giantness of Infosys Ltd., in terms of risk profile, nature of services,
> number of employees, ownership of branded products and brand related
> profits, etc. in comparison with such factors prevailing in the case of
> Agnity India Technologies Pvt. Ltd., being, a captive unit providing
> software development services without having any IP rights in the work done
> by it. After making comparison of various factors as enumerated above, the
> Hon'ble Delhi High Court held Infosys Ltd. to be non-comparable with Agnity
> India Technologies Pvt. Ltd. The facts of the instant case are similar to
> the extent that the extant assessee is also not owning any branded products
> and having no expenditure on R&D etc. When we consider all the above factors
> in a holistic manner, there remains absolutely no doubt that Infosys
> Technologies Ltd. is not comparable with the assessee company. Respectfully
> following the judgment of the Hon'ble jurisdictional High Court in Agnity
> India (supra), we hold that Infosys Technologies Ltd., cannot be treated as
> comparable with the  34 assessee company. This company is, therefore,
> directed to be excluded from the list of comparables."
80\. The diversified activities of business, its deployment of capital,
resources and the brand name make this company not comparable with the
assessee and, therefore, this company has to be excluded from the final set of
comparable companies for benchmarking international transaction related to
software segment.
Kals Information Systems Limited (Segmental)
81\. At the outset it is brought to our notice that this company was
considered by a coordinate bench of this tribunal in the immediately preceding
year that is assessment year 2007-08 in assessee's own case and this Tribunal
rejected this company to be included as a comparable to the assessee.
82\. On a perusal of the order dated 18.5.2016 in ITA No. 5837/Delhi/2011 in
assessee's own case, we find that this company was considered by this Tribunal
vide paragraph numbers 37 to 39 and found that the software segment of this
company also includes revenues from software and training, whereas the
assessee company is not engaged in imparting any training or selling its
software products to attract revenue. On this premise, this Tribunal held that
the finances of this company are not comparable with the assessee company and
on that ground this company is not a valid comparable.
83\. Further, the Assessee has placed reliance on Aircom (supra), in order to
exclude this comparable company on the ground that this company consisting of
STP unit is engaged in software products and development of software and is
also undertaking training activity of software professionals on online
projects and not  35 a good comparable. The coordinate bench has rejected this
comparable by making following observations:-
> "18.3. After considering the rival submissions and perusing the relevant
> material on record, we find that the entire premise of the TPO's inclusion
> of this company in the list of comparables is that the software products and
> training constitute only 4.24% of its revenue. This inference has been drawn
> on the basis of the information supplied by this company stating: "the use
> of readymade object laboratories is only to the tune of about (3.4 to 6.96)
> % in the year 2007-08 to 2008-09 ". We fail to comprehend as to how the
> above line conveys that the software products' revenue stands at 4.24%. What
> has been written is that the company's use of the readymade object
> laboratories is only to the tune of maximum 4.24%. By no imagination this
> can be construed as revenues from software products. When we peruse the
> Annual report of this company, which is available in the paper book, it can
> be seen that there is no such mention of software products revenue limited
> to 4.24%. On the contrary, it has been mentioned in the Notes to the
> financial statement that: "the company is engaged in development of software
> and software products since its inception." The company consisting of STPI
> unit is engaged in software products and development of software and is also
> undertaking training activity of software professionals on online projects.
> Not only the revenues of the segment considered by the TPO also include the
> revenue from software products, but also from training imparted on
> commercial basis. It is clear that the assessee is not providing any
> training under this segment, which has been rather included by the assessee
> in the second category of the assessee's business, namely, 'Software
> Deployment, Training, Consultancy and Equipment Rental.' Since the
> assessee's activity under this segment does not include any revenue from
> training, but the revenue of Kals Information Systems Ltd., for the purpose
> of comparison includes income from training, this company ceases to be
> comparable with the assessee's segment of `Software development services'.
> Similar view has been taken by the Tribunal in the assessee's own case for
> the immediately preceding assessment years 2006-07 and 2007-08. Respectfully
> following the precedents, we hold that Kals Information Systems Ltd. (Seg.)
> should be expunged from the set of comparables."
36
84\. No change of circumstances is brought to our notice either by the
assessee ot the revenue, as such we do not find any reason to take a different
view from the view taken by this Tribunal for the earlier year. We, therefore,
consequently hold that this company is not a valid comparable to that of the
assessee and has to be excluded from the final set of comparable companies for
benchmarking international transaction related to software segment.
LGS Global Limited:
85\. Initially the assessee offered this company as a comparable, but the
assessee claims to have found that this company is not a comparable and
wrongly included in the final list of comparable companies. Inasmuch as the
key determinative factor as far as the inclusion/exclusion of any company from
the list of comparables is the functionality of an entity, we are of the
considered opinion that this company has to be considered on the parameters of
functionality and assessee cannot be prevented from challenging the same.
86\. Page No. 26 of the 9th annual report 2007-08 of this company can be found
at page No. 935 of the paper book clearly establishes that this company is
engaged in a multifarious activities including an end to end service provider
and offers variety of services. It is involved in product evaluation, design &
development etc. of the products. Further, it also renders BPO services in the
field of Human Resources, Life Sciences, Legal Services, Supply Chain
Management, Sales, and Customer Support etc. Further, the financial statements
lacks in providing the segmental results as well.
37
87\. Further reading of the notes forming part of the accounts vide schedule
14 incorporated at page No. 971 of the paper book coupled with entries in
scheduled 5 at page No. 966 thereof show that there is an exceptional
circumstances during the year, i.e. the company has written off Goodwill,
which arose on account of merger of Lanco Global Systems Inc.
88\. In view of the vast functional diversity of this company as is evident
from the "offerings of the LGS service and solution" to be found at page No.
935 of its annual report coupled with the fact of the exceptional circumstance
occurred during the year, we are of the considered opinion that this company
is not a good comparable with the assessee and on that score it has to be
excluded from the final set of comparable companies for the present year under
consideration.
Larsen & Toubro Infotech Limited
89\. This company also was originally offered as a comparable by the assessee
itself but now the assessee is challenging the said company before us.
Undoubtedly this company is also a corporate giant and a reading of the annual
report of this company incorporated from page No. 824 of the paper book shows
that this company is into the manufacturing and product engineering services,
besides which dealing with banking, financial services, insurance, energy and
petrochemicals etc. Note No. 18 of the Notes on Account under the heading
segmental reporting shows that segmental reporting of revenues of this company
are on the basis of geographical location of the customers, but not on the
functional segmental. Profit and loss account at page No. 838 of the paper
book shows that the revenue is bifurcated under the head software development
services and products on geographical basis like overseas and domestic.
38
90\. In view of the huge capital base, resources and other factors this
company cannot be a comparable to the assessee and has to be excluded from the
final list of comparable companies for benchmarking international transaction
related to software segment.
Mindtree Limited
91\. Assessee sought the exclusion of this company on the ground of functional
dissimilarity. However Ld. TPO included it on the ground that this company is
deriving revenue from both software as well as ITES and sufficient segmental
information is not available in the financial statements. Under the head "the
business performance", at page No. 1010 of the paper book it is revealed that
this company is structured into two business units that focus on software
development R&D services, and IT services. It also offers IT Strategic
Consulting, Application Development, Data Warehousing and Business
Intelligence, Application Maintenance, Package Implementation, Product
Architecture, Design and Engineering, Embedded Software, Technical Support,
Testing and Infrastructure Management Service.
92\. Further at page No. 27 of the annual report incorporated at page No. 1027
of the paper book it is mentioned that on 17/12/2007 the company acquired
hundred percent of the outstanding equity shares of TES PV and Projects
Solutions Private Limited which was subsequently renamed as Mindtree
Technologies Private Limited at a total consideration of Rs. 259.7 million
equivalent to USD 6.55 million. It is further stated that as a consequence of
this, the revenues of this company as on 31st March 2008 of Rs. 64.80 millions
has been included in the above revenues for that year.
39
93\. Needless to say the vast functional dissimilarity coupled with the
extraordinary event of acquisition of equity shares stated above suggests that
this company is not a good comparable with the assessee and consequently is
liable to be excluded from the list of comparables.
Persistent Systems Limited:
94\. The Assessee claims to have excluded this company from the list of
comparables while preparing its TP study on the ground that this company was
functionally different from the assessee. However, This company was selected
as comparable by the TPO and the assessee, during the course of TP
proceedings, opposed the inclusion of this comparable on ground of functional
dissimilarity but the TPO selected it as the final comparable by rejecting the
argument of the Assessee and holding that this company is deriving revenue
from both software as well as products and insufficient segmental information
is available in the financial statements.
95\. It is evident from a reading of page numbers 1085, 1090, 1136, 1140,
1154, 1162 & 1183 of the paper book containing the Annual Report of this
company, that the company is engaged into software product development with
complete life cycle and is functionally dissimilar to that of the Assessee.
Further the profit and loss account at page No. 1154 of the paper book shows
that the income from the sale of software services and products is bundled up,
the schedule No. 11 forming part of profit and loss account at page No. 1160
shows the segmentation on the basis of overseas and domestic. Item number 'L'
at page No. 1166 under the heading "segment reporting policies" reads that the
company has disclosed the segment information only on the basis of the
consolidated financial  40 statements which shall be presented together with
the unconsolidated inertial statements.
96\. Further, in support of their plea that a company which is engaged in
software development services, but, at the same time is also a software
product company, is not a good comparable with the assessee, assessee placed
reliance on Aircom (supra), in order to exclude this comparable company. The
coordinate bench has rejected this comparable by making following
observations:-
> "19.2. We have heard the rival submissions and perused the relevant material
> on record. It can be seen from the information supplied by this company u/s
> 133(6) of the Act, a part of which has been reproduced in the TPO's order,
> that this company 'has developed a few of its own products in the area of
> identity management connectors.' Revenue from product licences stands at
> Rs.288.93 million as against the revenue from software development services
> at Rs.4829.57 millions. Though this company is more engaged in software
> development services, but, at the same time is also a software product
> company, which is evident from the information supplied by it to the TPO.
> Thus, the total revenue of the company on entity level also, inter alia,
> includes revenue from product licences. There is no information available
> from the Annual report of this company or the data collected by the TPO u/s
> 133(6) of the Act to divulge the amount of revenue from software development
> services alone to the exclusion of revenue from product licences. In such
> circumstances, it is not possible to ascertain the impact of such revenue on
> the total revenue of this company. As the assessee is not engaged in the
> sale of any software products, this company on entity level, cannot be
> considered as comparable. The Delhi Bench of the Tribunal in the case of
> Toluna India Pvt. Ltd. Vs. ACIT (ITA No.5645/Del/2011, vide its order dated
> 26.8.2014 has held Persistent Systems Ltd. to be incomparable with Toluna
> India Pvt. Ltd., also a company engaged in providing software development
> services to its related parties alone. Similar view has been taken by the
> Tribunal in Lear Automotive India Pvt. Ltd. Vs. ACIT (ITA No.5612/Del/2011)
> vide its order dated 22.12.2014. The ld. DR could not point out any
> distinguishing feature in the factual matrix of the assessee in question and
> Toluna India Pvt. Ltd., and Lear Automotive India Pvt. Ltd. Respectfully
> following the precedents, we order for the exclusion of this company from
> the list of comparables."
41
97\. In view of the functional dissimilarity coupled with the fact of
nonavailability of the segmental information, while respectfully following the
decision in Aircom (supra), we hold that this company is liable to be excluded
from the list of comparables.
Quintegra Solutions Limited:
98\. This company was offered as comparable by the Assessee itself, and there
was no occasion for the learned TPO to controvert its functional similarity.
However, The Assessee now contends that Quintegra Solutions Limited is not
comparable and was wrongly included in the final list of comparable companies,
on the ground that the company is functionally dissimilar to that of the
Assessee as the company is engaged in providing end to end solutions and also
deals in software products as well.
99\. The overview of the company at page No. 1238 of the paper book clearly
shows that this company is providing a full range of custom IT solutions (such
as Development, Testing, Maintenance, ACAP, Product Engineering and
Infrastructure Management Services), Proprietary Software Products and
Consultancy Services in IT on various platforms and technologies. It also
shows that this company combines horizontal expertise in IT with its vertical
experience developed by working in a wide range of industries.
100\. Further, from the table of fixed assets at schedule 5 incorporated at
page No. 1260 it is clear that there has been an exceptional circumstance
during the year, i.e. the company has acquired intellectual property rights in
the nature of copyrights.
42
101\. The Assessee has placed reliance on Aircom (Supra) wherein, this
comparable has been excluded on account of holding copyrights for the year
under consideration. Relevant extracts from the order has been reproduced
hereunder:
> "20.1. The assessee initially treated this company as comparable in its TP
> documentation. The TPO obtained information from this company which
> transpired that it was into software development services. The assessee
> objected to the same by contending that it had certain peculiar economic
> circumstances. Not convinced with the assessee's submissions and considering
> the information obtained from this company u/s 133(6) of the Act, the TPO
> treated it as comparable. The assessee is aggrieved.
> 20.2. Having heard the rival submissions and perused the relevant material
> on record, we find from the Annual report of this company that it has
> 'Copyrights' included in its Schedule of fixed assets with the closing
> written down value at Rs.2.71 crore. This company has its own Software with
> the closing balance of Rs.2.70 crore. Such software are also appearing in
> the Schedule of fixed assets of this company on standalone basis. This shows
> that this company is utilizing its software for rendering software
> development services. In contrast, the assessee in question is not having
> any software to be used in rendering software development services. It is,
> therefore, held that this company cannot be considered as comparable not
> only because of using its own software, but also having copyrights worth
> Rs.2.71 crore to be used in its business. These crucial factors are absent
> in the assessee's case. We, therefore, order for the exclusion of this
> company."
102\. Precisely for the same reason as stated in the above decision, we are of
the considered opinion that this company is fit to be excluded from the list
of comparables.
R Systems International (Seg.)  43
103\. Assessee objected the inclusion of this company in the set of
comparables on the ground that this company was functionally different from
the assessee. However, this company was selected as a comparable by the TPO
and the assessee has argued for its exclusion on the ground that it
functionally dissimilar to that of the Assessee as this company is engaged in
the Outsourced Product Development and Customer Support Services. Further, it
also offers low end BPO Services. Page No. 9 of the annual report of this
company establishes this fact.
104\. Having regard to the information furnished in the annual report of this
company vide page numbers 1356, 1362, 1366, 1371, 1378 and 1380 of the paper
book, we are convinced that that this company is not a pure software service
provider but is engaged in development and sale of products and on the ground
excludable from the final set of comparable companies for benchmarking
international transaction related to software segment.
Softsol India Limited (verifiable)
105\. The Assessee objected this company from the list of comparable while
preparing its TP study on the ground of related party transactions and also
basing on the statement in the annual report to the effect that this company
is a provider of e-commerce, network technology, Internet infrastructure and
other special technology areas and has diverse client base ranging from large
customers to small high-tech start-up companies.
106\. Ld. TPO observed that the company at present is in various areas of
software development industry and what is stated above in the annual report is
a futuristic statement. Ld. TPO referred to para 2.1 to be found on page No.
1533 of the paper book to the effect that no inventory is held, since the
company is  44 engaged in developing software and providing IT solutions. This
fact evidences that this company is confined only to software development and
no yet into net work or internet infrastructure. Even the Profit and Loss
Account to be found at page No. 1536 also shows that other than the other
income, the company is a deriving income only from software exports. Even the
Note 15 of the Notes on Account reads that there are no separate reportable
segments. We do not find any material from the record that this company has
actually been engaged in the activities like a) business of Software Products
b) Software Development c) Training Services; and d) manufacture of vide range
of products or that it provides end to end business solutions.
107\. We therefore find it difficult that this company is functionally
different from the assessee or that it is not a good comparable for want of
any segmental information or related party information. We, therefore, find
that this company has to be retained as a good comparable in the final list of
comparables.
Tata Elxsi Limited (Segmental)
108\. At the outset it is brought to our notice that in assessee's own case
for the assessment year 2007-08, a coordinate bench of this Tribunal
considered the functional similarity of this comparable with the assessee and
found that this company is not a suitable comparable in view of its different
functions.
109\. On a perusal of the order dated 18/05/2016 in ITA No. 5837/Delhi/2011 in
assessee's own case, we found that this aspect of suitability of this company
and its functional similarity was considered by this Tribunal. Vide paragraph
No. 51 to 53 this Tribunal reached a conclusion that this comparable company
is developing  45 hardware and software for embedded products, such as,
multimedia and other electronics etc and is also making some programs
developing technology in the form of intellectual property, as such the
functional profile of the assessee company is not comparable to this company.
110\. Further, the Appellant has placed reliance on Aircom (supra), in order
to exclude this comparable company. The coordinate bench has rejected this
comparable by making following observations:-
> "22.2. After considering the rival submissions and perusing the relevant
> material on record, we find that the TPO has adopted 'Software development
> and services' segment which, in turn, consists of three sub-segments,
> namely, Product design services (design and development of hardware and
> software), Innovation design and engineering (mechanical design with a focus
> on industrial design) and Visual Computing Labs (Animation and Visual
> Effects). Since this company offers integrated hardware and packaged
> software solutions, the same cannot be considered as comparable with the
> assessee company, which is simply providing software related services. The
> Tribunal in Toluna India Pvt. Ltd. VS. ACIT (2014) 151 ITD 177 (Delhi) and
> Motorola Solutions India Pvt. Ltd. (supra), both of which were rendering
> software development services, has treated this company as functionally not
> comparable. We, therefore, order for the exclusion of this company from the
> list of comparables."
111\. No change of circumstances is brought to our notice either by the
assessee or by the revenue, as such, by respectfully following the reasoning
of this Tribunal in assessee's own case for the immediately preceding year, we
conclude that this company is not a suitable one to be continued in the set of
comparables. We therefore direct the exclusion of this company from the final
set of comparable companies for benchmarking international transaction related
to software segment.
46
COMPARABLE COMPANIES SOUGHT TO BE INCLUDED BY THE APPELLANT FOR BENCHMARKING
OF ITS INTERNATIONAL TRANSACTION CG Vak Software Exports Limited
112\. Assessee selected this company as a comparable. Though the Ld. TPO did
not dispute the functional similarity of this company with the assessee,
rejected the same on the ground that this company did not satisfy the employee
cost filter of 25% and that its expenditure on employees was only 4.41% of the
total cost. Ld. DRP did not entertain the argument advanced on behalf of the
assessee that the ld. TPO has erred in not including the cost of services
which represented the expenditure on salary and owing to this error the
employee cost has come down to 4.41%.
113\. On this aspect, assessee placed reliance on the order of a co-ordinate
bench passed in the case of SAIC India (P.) Ltd. vs. DCIT [2016] 71
taxmann.com 237 (Delhi - Trib.) wherein while dealing with the said comparable
for AY 2008-09 it has been held as under:-
> "49. Ld. TPO rejected this company as a comparable on the ground that it
> fails employee cost filter; that employees cost should be more that 25% of
> the total cost whereas assessee for benchmarking international transaction
> applied the filter of employees cost more than 25% of the total sales.
> However, assessee company proved on record that employees cost (cost of
> service) as percentage of the total revenue of the company is 75.55%. During
> the course of argument, ld. AR for the assessee has fairly conceded that
> filter of employees cost more than 25% of total cost is to be applied in
> this case.
> 50\. Assessee brought on record profit and loss account for the year ending
> 31.03.2008 lying at pages 771 to 775 wherein in column no.15 cost of
> services has been duly described. When the filter of employees cost more
> than 25% of total cost is to be applied of cost of services described in
> column no.15 at page 774 of Volume IV of paper book, all the cost of  47
> services are to be treated as salary and this comparable company qualifies
> for inclusion in the final list o comparables. So, we are of the considered
> view that this issue is again required to be reconsidered by the TPO by
> taking into account the cost of services while applying the filter of
> employees cost of more than 25% of total cost. So, we hereby restore the
> issue to the TPO to decide afresh by providing opportunity of being heard in
> the light of the observation made herein before."
114\. Reliance in this regard is placed on another order of the co-ordinate
bench in the case of Tata McGraw Hill Education (P.) Ltd. vs. ACIT [2016] 69
taxmann.com 418 (Delhi - Trib.) wherein it has been held as under:-
> "22. As regards CG VAK Software & Exports Ltd., the objections of ld. TPO
> were that this comparable was functionally not comparable to the tested
> party as it had employee compensation less than 25% and hence it failed
> employee cost filter.
> 23\. Before ld. DRP the assessee pointed out that the employee cost (cost of
> services) as percentage of total revenue of the company was 75.55%. Ld. DRP
> did not accept the assessee's contention that cost of services should be
> taken as remuneration to employees by observing that in the annual report of
> the company there was no expense such as 'salary cost' or 'remuneration to
> employees' in its P&L A/c. Ld. DRP observed that assessee was drawing
> conclusions on the basis of unsubstantiated presumptions and whenever there
> is doubt about the functional comparability, it is better to drop such
> comparable rather than indulging in presumptions. Ld. DRP did not accept the
> assessee's contention that some companies may include employee cost as a
> separate item in their financial statements while others may aggregate it
> under the expenses such as administrative expenses, sales and marketing
> expenses etc. Ld. DRP observed that employee cost is always shown as a
> different line item in the profit and loss account.
> 24\. Ld. counsel submitted that this comparable has been accepted in the
> case of Kenexa Technologies Pvt. Ltd. (page 254 of the PB). Ld. counsel
> submitted that this comparable passes the employee cost filter of more than
> 25% as adopted by ld. TPO. He submitted that the employee cost is 46% of the
> total cost. In this regard ld. Counsel referred to pages 56 & 57 of the PB,
> wherein the objections raised before ld. DRP are contained in which it was
> pointed out that ld. TPO nowhere cited any instances of functional
> dissimilarity of this company vis-a-vis the assessee. Further, at  48 per
> page 21 of the annual report of this company, schedule 15 to accounts, cost
> of services has been shown as under:
                         Cost of services               Amount (Rs.)
                                                        2,46,69,456
                         Cost of services- Overseas
                                                        1,78,34,926
                         Cost of services- domestic
                                                        11,63,991
                         Transcription charges
                                                        97,333
                         Web designing charges
                                                        8,29,092
                         Staff welfare
                                                        3,74,302
                         Staff training
                                                        12,04,280
                         Contribution to PF & ESI
                                                        38,270
                         Gratuity
                                                        1,28,951
                         Ex Gratia
                                                        8,66,766
                         HRD expenses
                                                        4,72,07,367
                         Total
> Further, in the annual report of the company, there was no expense, such as
> salary cost or remuneration to employees.
> 25\. We have considered the submissions of both the parties. We are in
> agreement with the ld. counsel for the assessee that since there was no
> separate expenditure shown under the head 'salary/ remuneration', the sub-
> head 'cost of service', primarily refers to employees cost. The items under
> this sub-head such as contribution to PF, ESI, gratuity and ex gratia
> payment clearly shows that all these expenses were towards employees
> remuneration. We, therefore, restore this matter to the file of TPO to apply
> the employee filter correctly and if it is found that the employee cost is
> more than 25% then this comparable is to be included in the list of
> comparables selected by TPO."
115\. We have gone through the Annual Report of the assessee company for the
year 2008. In schedule 15 thereof incorporated at Pg. 21 of the hand out  49
under the head "Cost of services" there is a mentioning of the amounts of Rs.
2,46,69,456/- & 1,78,34,926/-. Since there is no separate expenditure shown
under the heading "salary/remuneration", the subhead "cost of service"
invariably refers to employees cost. In view of the findings of a coordinate
bench of this Tribunal in SAIC (supra), we find that this cost of service was
towards employees remuneration. With this view of the matter, we set aside
this issue to the file of the Ld. TPO/AO to apply the employee cost filter
correctly and if it is found that the employee cost is more than 25% then this
comparable is to be included in the list of comparables selected by the Ld.
TPO.
SIP technologies Limited:
116\. This company selected by the assessee was rejected by the TPO on the
ground of diminishing revenues. Ld. DRP also held that the companies having
diminishing revenues/persistent losses for the previous 3 years were
exceptions and refused to interfere with the findings of the Ld. TPO.
117\. It is submitted by the Ld. AR that this company was accepted as
functionally comparable to the assessee by the Department as well as by a
Coordinate Bench of this Tribunal in assessee's own case for the previous
assessment year of 2007 -
08\. It is argued by the Ld. AR that the diminishing revenue filter is invalid
for the simple reason that revenue is not a true indicator of the performance
of company as during its business life cycle owing to changing economic
conditions, a company could have variation in its revenue pattern over a
period of time. For example a company with increasing revenues over a period
of time does not necessarily reflect that it is performing better as the
corresponding increase in expenses could be higher than revenues and the
company might still incur losses.
50
Similarly, a company with diminishing revenues over a period of time need not
imply that the performance of the company is deteriorating as it might still
have good profit margin on account of cost efficiency i.e. minimizing/
reducing its expenses. Therefore, the net operating margin of the company with
increasing revenues over a period of time is a better indicator of the
performance of the company. Thus it is submitted that excluding companies
having persistent losses is a more appropriate filter and on this basis,
assessee himself has excluded companies which have shown persistent losses. It
is further submitted by the Ld. AR that the Ld. DRP as well as TPO has taken a
stand that such diminishing revenue goes against the industry trend, that
there can be nothing farther from the truth as variance in profitability is
the very essence of business and which more than demonstrates the arm's length
character prevalent in a free market economy, and it would defy commercial
logic and rationale, and economic business cycle if every company were to only
make profits and increase profits year after year. Low profits in some years
and losses in some years is a business reality. If one were to go with the
logic assumed by the learned TPO, every company should have increasing
revenues and the company which has lower profits or returns losses should
discontinue business operations because it would not represent an arm's length
nature of business.
118\. Ld. AR submits that this position has now been accepted by the Delhi
High Court and various benches of this Tribunal. In a recent order passed by
the co- ordinate bench in case of Aithent Technologies (P.) Ltd. vs. DCIT
[2016] 74 taxmann.com 214 (Delhi-Trib.) on the adoption of diminishing revenue
filter it has been held as under:-
51
> "14.3 A careful perusal of the pattern of profit/loss earned by the assessee
> as per its audited accounts divulges that as against the current year's
> profit of Rs. 62.39 lac, the earlier years' profit was Rs. 92.74 lac. This
> manifests that the profit for this year has diminished from the earlier
> year. When we consider the figures of losses for the financial years 2005-06
> and earlier years, it comes to light that there were losses right from
> financial year 2002-03 up to 2005-06. On an overview of the above extracted
> Table, it can be seen that the assessee's profit is not steady, but, has
> diminished during the instant year from the preceding year. In such a
> situation, if we exclude the companies having diminishing profits, it would
> mean that the companies whose profit pattern is also similar to that of the
> assessee would face the axe. Doing so would mean excluding the comparable
> companies from the final tally, which is not appropriate. However, the
> companies having persistent losses, obviously, cannot be compared with the
> assessee because it has earned positive income not only in this year, but,
> in the preceding year as well. We, therefore, hold that the companies having
> diminishing revenue should not be excluded, but, only the companies having
> persistent losses should be expelled from the final tally of comparables."
119\. While following the decision of the Hon'ble Delhi High Court in the case
of Chryscapital Investment Advisors (India) (P.) Ltd. this view has further
been affirmed by another co-ordinate bench of this ITAT in case of Vestergaard
Asia (P.) Ltd. vs. DCIT [2017] 88 taxmann.com 313 (Delhi-Trib.) wherein the
court has observed that :-
> "28. This comparable sought to be included by the assessee was rejected by
> the TPO on the ground that its revenue is continuously diminishing over the
> years.
> .....................
> 30\. The Ld. DR on the other hand argued that the revenue of the company has
> been reducing over a number of years. This fact indicates that the company
> is undergoing abnormal/exceptional circumstances and therefore its margins
> cannot be taken as reflecting those of the industry. He vehemently argued
> that this company should be excluded from the comparability analysis.
> .............
52
> 33\. As regards the argument of diminishing revenue, we note that the
> reduction of revenue from FY 2009-10 (3.99 crore) to FY 2010-11 (3.98 crore)
> is approximately Rs. 1 lac. In our view, such a minor difference in revenue
> cannot be taken to mean that the company is undergoing abnormal
> circumstances and should be rejected. Even otherwise, if the functional
> similarity of the company with the assessee is accepted, the same should not
> be rejected simply because of difference in revenue. Our view is supported
> by the decision of the Hon'ble Delhi High Court in the case of Chryscapital
> Investment Advisors (India) (P.) Ltd. (supra), in which it was observed:
> "'33. Such being the case, it is clear that exclusion of some companies
> whose functions are broadly similar and whose profile - in respect of the
> activity in question can be viewed independently from other activities-
> cannot be subject to a per se standard of loss making company or an
> "abnormal" profit making concern or huge or "mega" turnover company. As
> explained earlier, Rule JOB (2) guides the six methods outlined in clauses
> (a) to (f) of Ride 10B(1), -while judging comparability. Rule JOB (3j on the
> other hand indicates the approach to be adopted where differences and
> dissimilarities are apparent. Therefore, the mere circumstance of a company
> - otherwise conforming to the stipulations in Rule 10B (2) in all details,
> presenting a peculiar feature - such as a huge profit or a huge turnover,
> ipso facto does not lead to its exclusion. The TPO, first, has to be
> satisfied that such differences do not "materially affect the price...or
> cost"; secondly, an attempt to make reasonable adjustment to eliminate the
> material effect of such differences has to be made.'" In light of the above,
> we direct the TPO to include this company in the list of comparables."
120\. With regards to Revenue's stand that SIP technologies need to be
rejected on the ground that it suffered losses, it is submitted on behalf of
the assessee that for the filter of persistent losses to come into play it
should be shown that the comparable under dispute has incurred losses for
three preceding years including the assessment year in question. Reliance in
this regard is placed on the Pune ITAT order in case of Bobst India (P.) Ltd.
vs. DCIT [2015] 63 taxmann.com 339 (Pune-Trib.) wherein the bench observed
that a company can be rejected as persistent loss maker only if it has
incurred losses for more than 3 years. In the  53 present case in the
immediate preceding year the comparable company has showed operating profit of
13.90%, thus, as the company has not suffered losses and its functionality has
not been challenged by the TPO, it becomes clear that there is no valid ground
to exclude this company as comparable.
121\. On a careful consideration of the factual and legal position, we find
that this company is a valid comparable to the assessee and, therefore, has to
be included in the final set of comparables.
Indium Software India Ltd.
122\. This company was selected as comparable by the assessee in its TP study,
but this company was rejected by the Ld. TPO on the ground that this company
was engaged in software testing and thus was not functionally comparable to
assessee.
123\. Ld. AR argued for the inclusion of this company on the ground that
Indium Software (India) Limited is an STPI unit registered under the Software
Technology Park of India, and is proven leader in offering testing services
across a wide range of technologies.. Further the assessee relied on Schedule
13 of the P&L which shows that Indium software is generating revenue through
software services. It can be seen that one of the activities undertaken by the
assessee is testing services for its AEs, which further, corroborates the
selection of Indium as a comparable.
124\. We have gone through the order of the Ld. TPO and vide paragraph number
10.5.1 it is recorded that the indium software has been a leading software
testing/QA services company focusing on independent objective and highly  54
specialized in software testing. The profit and loss account of this company
under the head income shows that the revenue is bundled up for both software
services and training, besides sales of software and other income. In Schedule
12 of the Profit and Loss Account, software services and training bifurcated
the income from software services in export and domestic segments. No separate
financials in the lines of functional segments of software services and
training are available. Further, software testing is only a part of software
development in which the assessee is, and software testing cannot be compared
to the whole segment of development of software.
125\. With this view of the matter we do not find this company to be a good
comparable to the assessee and on this premise we reject the contention of the
assessee. Findings of the Ld. TPO and the Ld. DRP are confirmed.
WORKING CAPITAL ADJUSTMENT:
126\. It is submitted on behalf of the assessee that the TPO has not given
working capital adjustment to account for difference in working capital
employed by the Assessee. While rejecting the objections raised by the
assessee, Ld. DRP observed that ".... To carry out the adjustment, the
availability of relevant information to accurately identify the difference and
then quantify impact of such difference is a pre-requisite. In this case, we
only know the amount of working capital deployed by the comparables on the
first and last day of the accounting period. We have no means to ascertain the
working capital deployed by the comparables through the year. In fact, the
working capital adjustment should be computed on the basis daily average of
working capital deployed by the tested party and each of comparables,
respectively. The assessee has taken the average of the amount of working
capital deployed by the comparables on the first and last day of the
accounting  55 period to compute the working capital adjustment. It is quite
probable that daily average is substantially difference from the average of
the amount of working capital deployed by the comparables on the first and
last day of the accounting period. The adjustment for functional differences
etc. is to be allowed only if it can be ascertained with reasonable accuracy
which is impossible in this case because of unavailability of relevant data.
Therefore, this panel endorses the proposal of the AO to disallow the working
capital adjustment claimed by the assessee".
127\. Revenue does not dispute the submission on behalf of the assessee that
the working capital adjustment was given by the TPO in previous assessment
year (AY 2007-08).
128\. Assessee also relied upon the order of this Tribunal in SAIC India (P.)
Ltd. v.Deputy Commissioner of Income-tax, Circle 7(1), New Delhi - [2016] 71
taxmann.com 237 (Delhi - Trib.)/[2016] 181 TTJ 145 (Delhi - Trib.) dealing
with the similar issue. It was held as follows:
> "53. However, ld. AR contended that identical issue has been decided by the
> Tribunal in case cited as Qualcom India (P.) Ltd. v. Asstt. CIT [2014] 147
> ITD 17/[2013] 37 taxmann.com 306 (Delhi - Trib.).
> 54\. Coordinate Bench in the judgment cited as Qualcom India Pvt. Ltd.
> (supra) determined the issue of working capital adjustment to account for
> difference in working capital employed by assessee vis--vis comparable
> companies in favour of the assessee by making following observations :--
> "41. Considering the above submissions we concur with the submission of the
> Ld. DR that the issue raised in ground No. 6 & 7 on account of working
> capital adjustment and risk adjustment depend upon the fact and
> circumstances of each case. But at the same time we are of the view that
> these factors are equally important to consider while selecting comparable
> companies. In the present case the assessee is engaged in the business of
> software development and providing marketing services, hence there is no
> dispute that appropriate adjustment to account for difference in working
> capital employed by the assessee vis-a-vis the comparable companies for
> software development services is required to be considered.
56
> Similarly making of suitable adjustments to account for differences in the
> risk profile of the assessee vis. a vis. the comparable companies for
> software development services is also required to be considered. Of course
> these adjustments on account of working capital and risk is to be made after
> analyzing the case of the assessee since it depends upon the facts of the
> case of the assessee. The request for such adjustments cannot be summarily
> rejected unless some analysis of the case of the assessee is made vis-a-vis
> comparables companies. We thus set aside the matter to the file of the Ld.
> TPO/AO to consider these aspect of adjustment while deciding the issue
> afresh vis-a-vis the comparable companies in the business of software
> development as discussed hereinabove in the present order of the Tribunal.
> It is needless to mention over here that while considering these aspects
> opportunity would be given to the assessee to present its case in this
> regard. The assessee is required to cooperate with the Ld. TPO in furnishing
> the details, break up, datas, etc. or any other necessary information to the
> satisfaction of the TPO so that reasonably accurate adjustment, if any, can
> be made as per Indian Transfer Pricing Law (i.e. Rule 10B (3)(iii)) on
> account of risk and working capital. Ground No.6 & 7 are thus allowed for
> statistical purposes."
55\. Identical issue has also been dealt with by the ITAT, Delhi Bench 'E',
New Delhi in case cited as Nokia India (P.) Ltd. v. Addl. CIT [2012] 51 SOT
286/20 taxmann.com 810 and determined the issue in favour of the assessee by
returning the following findings :--
> '5.1 Thus it is the contention of the ld. counsel of the assessee that the
> TPO while determining the arm's length price of the subject international
> transaction during assessment year 2006-07 ignored the fact the assessee has
> been granted the benefit of the working capital adjustment during A.Y.
> 2005-06 by himself and the fact the same has also been allowed by his
> predecessors during the transfer pricing assessment proceeding for A.Y.
> 2002-03 till A.Y. 2004-05 despite the constraints mentioned in the transfer
> pricing order. Thus, it is the contention of the assessee that there is no
> change in the business model of the assessee with respect to the provision
> of contract software development services of the assessee vis-a-vis A.Y.
> 2005-06, the benefit of working capital adjustment should be allowed to the
> assessee in the subject year under appeal as well.
57
5.2 Ld. counsel of the assessee has further submitted that Rules 10B(1)(e) of
the Rules prescribe that at the time of application of Transactional Net
Margin Method, the net profit margin needs to be adjusted to account for the
difference if any between the international transaction and comparable
uncontrolled transactions. The relevant text of the provisions is reproduced
below for reference:
> "10B Determination of arm's length price under section 92C- (1) For the
> purposes of sub-section (2) of section 92C, the arm's length price in
> relation to an international transaction shall be determined by any of the
> following methods, being the most appropriate method, in the following
> manner, namely :-
> (a) to (d)** ** **
> (e) transactional net margin method, by which,--
> "(iii) the net profit margin referred to in sub-clause (ii) arising in
> comparable uncontrolled transactions is adjusted to take into account the
> differences, if any, between the international transaction and the
> comparable uncontrolled transactions, or between the enterprises entering
> into such transactions, which could materially affect the amount of net
> profit margin in the open market;"
> ........."
The ld. counsel has further submitted that the Hon'ble Delhi, ITAT has also
upheld the need of making working capital adjustment in following judgments.
Mentor Graphics (Noida)(P.) Ltd. v. Dy. CIT [2007] 109 ITD 101/18 SOT 76
(Delhi) Sony India (P.) Ltd. v. Dy. CIT [2008] 114 ITD 448 (Delhi) Thus in
light of the provisions of Rule 10B(1)(e) and the Hon'ble ITAT judgments, it
has been pleaded to grant the Appellant the benefit of working capital
adjustment.
5.3 Ld. Departmental Representative on the other hand relied upon the order of
the TPO.
5.4 The DRP in its order has not dealt with the issue properly and has held
that for the sake of consistency and to protect the interest of the revenue,
the adjustment made by the TPO has to be upheld.
58
6\. We have carefully considered the submissions in light of the material
produced and precedent relied upon. It is an undisputed fact that on the same
set of facts and in the same business model the assessee has been provided the
working capital adjustments in the preceding assessment years. Under the
circumstances, in our considered opinion, it was incumbent upon the TPO to
consider the same in the current year.'
56\. Keeping in view the fact that the issue in question has been settled in
the cases cited as Qualcom India (P.) Ltd. (supra) and Nokia India (P.) Ltd.
(supra) and the fact that assessee in this case is engaged in providing
software development services to its group companies and to arrive at ALP of
the international transactions, the ld. TPO / DRP resorted to comparability by
selecting different sets of comparable companies and after applying the
various filters, the ld. TPO selected 10 comparable companies as mentioned in
para 8.7 of his order, the appropriate transfer pricing adjustment can only to
be made qua the international transaction undertaken by the assessee company
during the year under assessment on the basis of its comparability vis--vis
comparable companies, by providing working capital adjustment to the assessee
in view of the provisions contained under Rule 10B(1)(e) also. So, we are of
the considered view that the matter is required to be restored to the TPO to
provide the assessee company the benefit of working capital adjustment for
transfer pricing adjustment."
129\. In view of this legal and factual position , we consider it just and
proper to direct the Ld. TPO to grant working capital adjustment to account
for difference in working capital employed by the Assessee and the comparable
companies.
130\. In the result, appeal of the assessee is allowed in part and for
statistical purposes.
The order is pronounced in the Open Court on 16th February, 2018.
          Sd/-                                                sd/-
       ( N.K. SAINI )                                 (K. NARASIMHA CHARY)
     ACCOUNTANT MEMBER                                 JUDICIAL MEMBER
     Dated : the 16th February , 2018/ VJ
                                         59
    Copy of the Order forwarded to :-
     1. Appellant;
     2. Respondent;
     3. CIT;
     4. CIT (Appeals);
     5. DR, ITAT, ND.
                                             BY ORDER
                                             ASSISTANT REGISTRAR
                                         60
                                                                Date
    Draft dictated on                                  137.02.2018
    Draft placed before author                         .02.2018
    Draft proposed & placed before the second member
    Draft discussed/approved by Second Member.
    Approved Draft comes to the Sr.PS/PS
    Kept for pronouncement on
    File sent to the Bench Clerk
    Date on which file goes to the AR
    Date on which file goes to the Head Clerk.
    Date of dispatch of Order.
    Copy of the Order forwarded to :-
     1. Appellant;
     2. Respondent;
     3. CIT;
     4. CIT (Appeals);
     5. DR, ITAT, ND.
                                             BY ORDER
                                             ASSISTANT REGISTRAR
                                         60
                                                                Date
    Draft dictated on                                  137.02.2018
    Draft placed before author                         .02.2018
    Draft proposed & placed before the second member
    Draft discussed/approved by Second Member.
    Approved Draft comes to the Sr.PS/PS
    Kept for pronouncement on
                                         ORDER
PER K. NARASIMHA CHARY, J. M. :
Aggrieved by the assessment order dated 30.11.2012 read with the directions
dated 27.9.2012 issued by the Dispute Resolution Panel - II, New Delhi (for
short called "learned DRP), assessee preferred this appeal.
2\. Brief facts of the case are that the assessee is in the business of
manufacturing and trading of telecommunication network equipment and  2
network design, installation and commissioning. The assessee is also providing
support services to major telecom and IT service providers besides developing
telecom software. For the assessment year 2008-09, the assessee filed their
return of income on 30.9.2008 declaring a total income of Rs.47,08,17,570/-.
The case was selected for scrutiny. Matter was referred to the Ld. TPO for
determination of the Armed Length Price of the International Transaction, and
the Learned TPO by order dated 31.10.2011 determined a sum of
Rs.38,36,90,639/- as the transfer pricing adjustment u/s 92CA basing on which
the learned AO made an addition to that effect. Besides this, learned AO made
the following additions also:
> Disallowance of claim of exemption u/s 10AA to the extent of
> Rs.15,93,92,715/- Disallowance of excess depreciation claimed on UPS
> Rs.1,44,75,008 Disallowance of employees contribution to Provident Fund
    Copy of the Order forwarded to :-
     1. Appellant;
     2. Respondent;
     3. CIT;
     4. CIT (Appeals);
     5. DR, ITAT, ND.
                                             BY ORDER
                                             ASSISTANT REGISTRAR
                                         60
                                                                Date
    Draft dictated on                                  137.02.2018
    Draft placed before author                         .02.2018
    Draft proposed & placed before the second member
    Draft discussed/approved by Second Member.
    Approved Draft comes to the Sr.PS/PS
    Kept for pronouncement on
                                         ORDER
PER K. NARASIMHA CHARY, J. M. :
Aggrieved by the assessment order dated 30.11.2012 read with the directions
dated 27.9.2012 issued by the Dispute Resolution Panel - II, New Delhi (for
short called "learned DRP), assessee preferred this appeal.
2\. Brief facts of the case are that the assessee is in the business of
manufacturing and trading of telecommunication network equipment and  2
network design, installation and commissioning. The assessee is also providing
support services to major telecom and IT service providers besides developing
telecom software. For the assessment year 2008-09, the assessee filed their
return of income on 30.9.2008 declaring a total income of Rs.47,08,17,570/-.
The case was selected for scrutiny. Matter was referred to the Ld. TPO for
determination of the Armed Length Price of the International Transaction, and
the Learned TPO by order dated 31.10.2011 determined a sum of
Rs.38,36,90,639/- as the transfer pricing adjustment u/s 92CA basing on which
the learned AO made an addition to that effect. Besides this, learned AO made
the following additions also:
> Disallowance of claim of exemption u/s 10AA to the extent of
> Rs.15,93,92,715/- Disallowance of excess depreciation claimed on UPS
> Rs.1,44,75,008 Disallowance of employees contribution to Provident Fund
    Copy of the Order forwarded to :-
     1. Appellant;
     2. Respondent;
     3. CIT;
     4. CIT (Appeals);
     5. DR, ITAT, ND.
                                             BY ORDER
                                             ASSISTANT REGISTRAR
                                         60
                                                                Date
    Draft dictated on                                  137.02.2018
    Draft placed before author                         .02.2018
    Draft proposed & placed before the second member
    Draft discussed/approved by Second Member.
    Approved Draft comes to the Sr.PS/PS
    Kept for pronouncement on
                                         ORDER
PER K. NARASIMHA CHARY, J. M. :
Aggrieved by the assessment order dated 30.11.2012 read with the directions
dated 27.9.2012 issued by the Dispute Resolution Panel - II, New Delhi (for
short called "learned DRP), assessee preferred this appeal.
2\. Brief facts of the case are that the assessee is in the business of
manufacturing and trading of telecommunication network equipment and  2
network design, installation and commissioning. The assessee is also providing
support services to major telecom and IT service providers besides developing
telecom software. For the assessment year 2008-09, the assessee filed their
return of income on 30.9.2008 declaring a total income of Rs.47,08,17,570/-.
The case was selected for scrutiny. Matter was referred to the Ld. TPO for
determination of the Armed Length Price of the International Transaction, and
the Learned TPO by order dated 31.10.2011 determined a sum of
Rs.38,36,90,639/- as the transfer pricing adjustment u/s 92CA basing on which
the learned AO made an addition to that effect. Besides this, learned AO made
the following additions also:
> Disallowance of claim of exemption u/s 10AA to the extent of
> Rs.15,93,92,715/- Disallowance of excess depreciation claimed on UPS
> Rs.1,44,75,008 Disallowance of employees contribution to Provident Fund
> Rs.19,25,243/- Disallowance of TDS recoverable written off Rs.2,83,86,834/-
         Disallowance of penalty expenses                                    Rs.4000/-
         Disallowance u/s 40(a)(i)                                           Rs.6,91,99,702/-
> 3\. Assessee carried the matter before the learned DRP. In respect of
> transfer pricing adjustment, learned DRP excluded one M/s Cybermet Infotech
> Ltd. from the set of comparables due to which the transfer pricing
> adjustment had come down to Rs.31,77,69,775/-. In respect of additions on
> account of corporate issues, learned DRP sustained the addition to the tune
> of Rs.13,06,80,262/-.
Learned AO completed the assessment by making an addition of Rs.31,77,79,775/-
on account of transfer pricing adjustment and a sum of Rs.13,06,82,262/- on
    Copy of the Order forwarded to :-
     1. Appellant;
     2. Respondent;
     3. CIT;
     4. CIT (Appeals);
     5. DR, ITAT, ND.
                                             BY ORDER
                                             ASSISTANT REGISTRAR
                                         60
                                                                Date
    Draft dictated on                                  137.02.2018
    Draft placed before author                         .02.2018
    Draft proposed & placed before the second member
    Draft discussed/approved by Second Member.
    Approved Draft comes to the Sr.PS/PS
    Kept for pronouncement on
                                         ORDER
PER K. NARASIMHA CHARY, J. M. :
Aggrieved by the assessment order dated 30.11.2012 read with the directions
dated 27.9.2012 issued by the Dispute Resolution Panel - II, New Delhi (for
short called "learned DRP), assessee preferred this appeal.
2\. Brief facts of the case are that the assessee is in the business of
manufacturing and trading of telecommunication network equipment and  2
network design, installation and commissioning. The assessee is also providing
support services to major telecom and IT service providers besides developing
telecom software. For the assessment year 2008-09, the assessee filed their
return of income on 30.9.2008 declaring a total income of Rs.47,08,17,570/-.
The case was selected for scrutiny. Matter was referred to the Ld. TPO for
determination of the Armed Length Price of the International Transaction, and
the Learned TPO by order dated 31.10.2011 determined a sum of
Rs.38,36,90,639/- as the transfer pricing adjustment u/s 92CA basing on which
the learned AO made an addition to that effect. Besides this, learned AO made
the following additions also:
> Disallowance of claim of exemption u/s 10AA to the extent of
> Rs.15,93,92,715/- Disallowance of excess depreciation claimed on UPS
> Rs.1,44,75,008 Disallowance of employees contribution to Provident Fund
> Rs.19,25,243/- Disallowance of TDS recoverable written off Rs.2,83,86,834/-
         Disallowance of penalty expenses                                    Rs.4000/-
         Disallowance u/s 40(a)(i)                                           Rs.6,91,99,702/-
> 3\. Assessee carried the matter before the learned DRP. In respect of
> transfer pricing adjustment, learned DRP excluded one M/s Cybermet Infotech
> Ltd. from the set of comparables due to which the transfer pricing
> adjustment had come down to Rs.31,77,69,775/-. In respect of additions on
> account of corporate issues, learned DRP sustained the addition to the tune
> of Rs.13,06,80,262/-.
Learned AO completed the assessment by making an addition of Rs.31,77,79,775/-
on account of transfer pricing adjustment and a sum of Rs.13,06,82,262/- on
    Copy of the Order forwarded to :-
     1. Appellant;
     2. Respondent;
     3. CIT;
     4. CIT (Appeals);
     5. DR, ITAT, ND.
                                             BY ORDER
                                             ASSISTANT REGISTRAR
                                         60
                                                                Date
    Draft dictated on                                  137.02.2018
    Draft placed before author                         .02.2018
    Draft proposed & placed before the second member
    Draft discussed/approved by Second Member.
    Approved Draft comes to the Sr.PS/PS
    Kept for pronouncement on
