Supreme Court of India
Canara Bank vs N.G. Subbaraya Setty on 20 April, 2018
Author: R Nariman
                                                                              REPORTABLE
                                             IN THE SUPREME COURT OF INDIA
                                                CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION
                                             CIVIL APPEAL NO.4233 OF 2018
                                       (ARISING OUT OF SLP (C) NO.25649 OF 2017)
                             CANARA BANK                                    …APPELLANT
                                                         VERSUS
                             N.G. SUBBARAYA SETTY & ANR.               ...RESPONDENTS
                                                     JUDGMENT
R.F. Nariman, J.
1\. Leave granted.
2\. Roma locuta est; causa finita est. Rome has spoken, the cause is ended.
Rome spoke through her laws. One of the pillars of Roman law is contained in
the maxim res judicata pro veritate accipitur (a thing adjudicated is received
as the truth). This maxim of Roman law is based upon two other fundamental
Signature Not Verified Digitally signed by SWETA DHYANI Date: 2018.04.20
maxims of Roman law, namely, interest reipublicae ut sit finis 15:56:51 IST
bank shall engage in any form of business other than those referred to in sub-
section (1).
41\. Shri Shanthakumar Mahale, however, exhorted us to read Sections 6(1)(f)
and (g) as permitting the sale of goods under the trademark and/or earning
royalty from a sub-assignment thereto. We are of the view that the trademark
cannot be said to be property which has come into the possession of the bank
in satisfaction or part satisfaction of any of the claims of the bank. We are
further of the view that the trademarks are not part of any security for loans
or advances that have been made to the first respondent, or connected with the
same. It is thus clear that the assignment deed dated 8.10.2003 is clearly hit
by  60 Section 6(2) and Section 8 read with the penalty provision contained in
Section 46(4) of the Banking Regulation Act.
42\. The appeal is allowed and the judgment of the trial Court and the first
appellate Court are set aside. Consequently, O.S. No.495 of 2008 filed by
respondent No.1 will stand dismissed.
………………………..J.
maxims of Roman law, namely, interest reipublicae ut sit finis 15:56:51 IST
Reason:
litium (it concerns the State that there be an end to law suits)  1 and nemo
debet bis vexari pro una at eadem causa (no man should be vexed twice over for
the same cause). Indeed, that this maxim is almost universal in all ancient
laws, including ancient Hindu texts, was discussed by Sir Lawrence Jenkins in
Sheoparsan Singh v. Ramnandan Singh, AIR 1916 PC 78 at 80-81 as follows:
> “There has been much discussion at the Bar as to the application of the plea
> of res judicata as a bar to this suit. In the view their Lordships take, the
> case has not reached the stage at which an examination of this plea and this
> discussion would become relevant. But in view of the arguments addressed to
> them, their Lordships desire to emphasise that the rule of res judicata,
> while founded on ancient precedent, is dictated by a wisdom which is for all
> time. “It has been well said,” declared Lord Coke, “interest reipublicae ut
> sit finis litium, otherwise great oppression might be done under colour and
> pretence of law”: (6 Coke, 9a). Though, the rule of the Code may be traced
> to an English source, it embodies a doctrine in no way opposed to the spirit
> of the law as expounded by the Hindu commentators. Vijnanesvara and
> Nilakantha include the plea of a former judgment among those allowed by law,
> each citing for this purpose the text of Katyayana, who describes the plea
> thus: “If a person though defeated at law sue again he should be answered,
> ‘You were defeated formerly’. This is called the plea of former judgment.”
> (See “The Mitakshara (Vyavahara)” Bk. II, ch. i, edited by J.R.
2
Gharpure, p. 14, and “The Mayuka,” Ch. I., sec.
1, p. 11 of Mandlik’s edition.) And so the application of the rule by the
Courts in India should be influenced by no technical considerations of form,
but by matter of substance within the limits allowed by law.”
3\. This Court in Daryao and others v. State of U.P. and others, (1962) 1 SCR
574 at 583-584, put it very well when it said:
> “In considering the essential elements of res judicata one inevitably harks
> back to the judgment of Sir William De Grey (afterwards Lord Walsingham) in
> the leading Duchess of Kingston’s case [2 Smith Lead. Cas. 13th Ed. pp. 644,
> 645]. Said William De Grey, (afterwards Lord Walsingham) “from the variety
> of cases relative to judgments being given in evidence in civil suits, these
> two deductions seem to follow as generally true: First, that the judgment of
> a court of concurrent jurisdiction, directly upon the point, is as a plea, a
> bar, or as evidence, conclusive between the same parties, upon the same
> matter, directly in question in another court; Secondly, that the judgment
> of a court of exclusive jurisdiction, directly upon the point, is in like
> manner conclusive upon the same matter, between the same parties, coming
> incidentally in question in another court for a different purpose”.
As has been observed by Halsbury, “the doctrine of res judicata is not a
technical doctrine applicable only to records; it is a fundamental doctrine of
all courts that there must be an end of litigation [Halsbury’s Laws of
England, 3rd Ed.,  3 Vol. 15, para. 357, p. 185]”. Halsbury also adds that the
doctrine applies equally in all courts, and it is immaterial in what court the
former proceeding was taken, provided only that it was a Court of competent
jurisdiction, or what form the proceeding took, provided it was really for the
same cause (p. 187, paragraph 362). “Res judicata”, it is observed in Corpus
Juris, “is a rule of universal law pervading every well regulated system of
jurisprudence, and is put upon two grounds, embodied in various maxims of the
common law; the one, public policy and necessity, which makes it to the
interest of the State that there should be an end to litigation — interest
republicae ut sit finis litium; the other, the hardship on the individual that
he should be vexed twice for the same cause — nemo debet bis vexari pro eadem
causa” [Corpus Juris, Vol. 34, p. 743]. In this sense the recognised basis of
the rule of res judicata is different from that of technical estoppel.
“Estoppel rests on equitable principles and res judicata rests on maxims which
are taken from the Roman Law” [Ibid p. 745]. Therefore, the argument that res
judicata is a technical rule and as such is irrelevant in dealing with
petitions under Article 32 cannot be accepted.”
4\. The link between the doctrine of res judicata and the prevention of abuse
of process is very felicitously stated in Virgin Atlantic Airways Ltd. v.
Zodiac Seats UK Ltd. [2013] 4 All ER 715 (at 730-731) as follows:
“The principle in Henderson v Henderson has always been thought to be directed
against the  4 abuse of process involved in seeking to raise in subsequent
litigation points which could and should have been raised before. There was
nothing controversial or new about this notion when it was expressed by Lord
Kilbrandon in the Yat Tung case [1975] AC 581. The point has been taken up in
a large number of subsequent decisions, but for present purposes it is enough
to refer to the most important of them, Johnson v Gore-Wood & Co [2002] 2 AC
1, in which the House of Lords considered their effect. This appeal arose out
of an application to strike out proceedings on the ground that the plaintiffs
claim should have been made in an earlier action on the same subject matter
brought by a company under his control. Lord Bingham of Cornhill took up the
earlier suggestion of Lord Hailsham of St Marylebone LC in Vervaeke (formerly
Messina) v Smith [1983] 1 AC 145, 157 that the principle in Henderson v
Henderson was “both a rule of public policy and an application of the law of
res judicata”. He expressed his own view of the relationship between the two
at p. 31 as follows: “Henderson v Henderson abuse of process, as now
understood, although separate and distinct from cause of action estoppel and
issue estoppel, has much in common with them. The underlying public interest
is the same: that there should be finality in litigation and that a party
should not be twice vexed in the same matter. This public interest is
reinforced by the current emphasis on efficiency and economy in the conduct of
litigation, in the interests of the parties and the public as a whole”.”  5
5\. Res judicata is, thus, a doctrine of fundamental importance in our legal
system, though it is stated to belong to the realm of procedural law, being
statutorily embodied in Section 11 of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908.
However, it is not a mere technical doctrine, but it is fundamental in our
legal system that there be an end to all litigation, this being the public
policy of Indian law. The obverse side of this doctrine is that, when
applicable, if it is not given full effect to, an abuse of process of the
Court takes place. However, there are certain notable exceptions to the
application of the doctrine. One well known exception is that the doctrine
cannot impart finality to an erroneous decision on the jurisdiction of a
Court. Likewise, an erroneous judgment on a question of law, which sanctions
something that is illegal, also cannot be allowed to operate as res judicata.
This case is concerned with the application of the last mentioned exception to
the rule of res judicata. The brief facts necessary to appreciate the
applicability of the said exception to the doctrine of res judicata are as
follows. In the present case, respondent No.1 availed a credit facility from
the petitioner bank sometime in 2001. Respondent No.2, his son,  6 stood as a
guarantor for repayment of the said facility. As respondent No.1 defaulted in
repayment of a sum of Rs.53,49,970.22, the petitioner bank filed O.A. No. 440
of 2002 before the DRT Bangalore, against respondent Nos.1 and 2. Respondent
No.1, in order to repay the dues of the bank, signed an assignment deed dated
8.10.2003 with the Chief Manager, Basavanagudi Branch, Bangalore for
assignment of the trademark “EENADU” in respect of agarbathies (incense
sticks) on certain terms and conditions. Clauses 1 to 7 of the aforesaid
assignment are set out hereunder:
> “NOW THIS DEED OF ASSIGNMENT OF TRADE MARK “EENADU” WITNESSETH AS FOLLOWS:
> 1\. The Assignor hereby grant, transfer and assign upon the Assignee upon
> the terms and conditions mentioned hereunder, the exclusive use and all
> benefits of the aforesaid trade mark “Eenadu” in relation to the agarbathies
> (incense sticks) for a period TEN years from the date of this Agreement i.e.
> 1.10.03 to 30.9.13.
> 2\. The Assignee shall pay the sum of Rs. 76,000.00 (Rupees seventy six
> thousand only) per month payable for the period of first six years: i.e.
> from 1.10.03 to 30.9.09:
(i) Rs. 40,000.00 shall be credited to the loan amount of the Assignor every
month and (ii) the balance of Rs.36,000.00 (Rupees thirty six  7 thousand
only) to be paid to the Assignor/permitted to be drawn by him until the expiry
of first six years i.e. 1.10.03 to 30.9.09; and
3\. The Assignee shall pay the sum of Rs.83,600.00 (Rupees Eighty three
thousand six hundred only) per month payable for the period of next four years
i.e. from 1.10.09 to 30.9.13.
(i) Rs. 40,000 shall be credited to the loan account of the Assignor every
month and (ii) the balance of Rs.43,600.00 (Rupees forty three thousand six
hundred only) to be paid to the Assignor/permitted to be drawn by him until
the expiry of next four years i.e. from 1.10.09 to 30.9.13.
    4. The     aforesaid    payments       shall   be
    unconditionally   made     by     the    Assignee
continuously and uninterruptedly for the aforesaid period of TEN years.
5\. The Assignee shall have the right to use the trade mark “Eenadu” on its
own and shall also be entitled to grant permission to third party/parties to
use the same, subject to the said parties agreeing to maintain the good
quality and reputation of the trade mark “Eenadu” during the period of
validity of assignment (the above said ten years i.e. 1.10.03 to 30.9.13).
6\. The Assignee shall be entitled to collect “Royalty” from the permitted
users during the period of validity of assignment (the above said ten years).
7\. The period of assignment granted under this deed shall come to an end on
the expiry of the period of ten years from the date of this agreement i.e. on
30.9.13 and the agreement shall stand terminated without any notice in
relation thereto and the licences, permissions,  8 etc. granted by the
Assignee to the third parties in respect of the trade mark of the Assignor
“Eenadu” shall also come to an end simultaneously, without such notice.”
6\. By a letter dated 27.1.2004, the Chief Manager wrote to respondent No.1
stating that:
> “We have been informed by our higher authorities that as per the Banking
> Company’s Regulation Act, 1949, the bank cannot be “patent right holder”.
> Hence, please note that we are not interested in holding the patent right of
> Eenadu and as such by this letter, we are cancelling the above assignment
> deed dated 8-10-2003.”
7\. On 15.4.2004, respondent No.1 filed O.S. No.2832 of 2004 against the bank
challenging the cancellation of the said assignment deed and for recovery of
Rs.2,16,000/- with interest thereon for the period 1.10.2003 to 31.3.2004. On
17.9.2004, the petitioner bank filed O.S. No.7018 of 2004 for a declaration
that the assignment deed entered into between it and respondent No.1 is
vitiated by mistake, undue influence and fraud and that, therefore, the said
deed is unenforceable in the eye of law.
9
8\. Meanwhile, the Chief Manager who signed the assignment deed on behalf of
the bank, namely, one N.V. Narayana Rao, was dismissed from service pursuant
to disciplinary proceedings taken against him on 26.5.2005.
9\. The two suits as aforestated were consolidated and disposed of by a common
judgment. Issues were framed separately in both suits and it was found that
the assignment deed was not vitiated by fraud, misrepresentation or undue
influence. Consequently, the bank had no right to cancel or rescind the
aforesaid assignment deed. Respondent No.1’s claim for a money decree for
Rs.2,16,000/- was dismissed. It was also held that the Civil Court had
jurisdiction to entertain the suits, despite the pendency of DRT proceedings.
The bank’s suit came to be dismissed. The ultimate order passed in the two
suits is as follows:
> “O.S. 2832/2004 is hereby decreed in part, granting a relief in favour of
> the plaintiff as against the 1st defendant/bank, declaring that the
> unilateral cancellation of the assignment agreement dated 8.10.2003 by the
> 1st defendant bank vide letter No. LPD/SSI/1034/2004 dated 27.1.2004, is
> illegal and unsustainable.
10
The further prayer of the plaintiff seeking money decree against the 1st
plaintiff bank, directing to pay him Rs.2,16,000.00 together with interest at
18% p.a. is hereby rejected.
O.S. 7018/2004 is hereby dismissed, thereby the prayer of the plaintiff/bank
to declare that the assignment agreement dated 8.10.2003 entered into between
the bank and the 1st defendant, as vitiated by virtue of undue influence,
fraud and misrepresentation, practiced by the 1st defendant on the bank, is
hereby rejected.”
10\. Respondent No.1 filed a review petition, being miscellaneous petition
No.324 of 2013, seeking review of the aforesaid judgment to the extent that
his prayer for payment of Rs.2,16,000/- was rejected. On 16.3.2015, this
petition was allowed, and O.S. No.2832 of 2004 filed by respondent No.1 was
fully decreed against the bank, including the prayer for payment. Against the
aforesaid review judgment dated 16.3.2015, an appeal was filed by the bank on
4.1.2016 with an application for condoning the delay of 175 days. We are
informed that this appeal is still pending. Meanwhile, respondent No.1, on the
basis of the assignment deed, filed another suit, being O.S. No.495 of 2008,
against the bank for recovery of a sum of Rs.17,89,915/- with interest for the
period  11 1.4.2004 to 30.4.2007. By a judgment dated 30.10.2015, this suit
was decreed on the footing that the earlier judgment dated 27.4.2013, not
having been appealed against, was res judicata between the parties. An appeal
filed against this judgment met with the same fate in that, by the impugned
judgment dated 31.7.2017, the High Court of Karnataka dismissed the appeal
filed by the bank on the self-same ground of res judicata. It may be noted
that on 14.7.2017, the hearing of the appeal, which culminated in the impugned
judgment, was concluded and judgment was reserved. It was only after this that
the petitioner bank, for the first time on 26.7.2017, filed a review petition
against the judgment dated 27.4.2013 with a condonation of delay application
of 1548 days. This review petition is also stated to be pending.
11\. Shri Dhruv Mehta, learned senior advocate appearing on behalf of the
petitioner bank, has argued that no issue was struck as to res judicata as the
same had not specifically been pleaded in the plaint of the suit of 2008.
Indeed, the judgment dated 27.4.2013 came long after the pleading in the
second  12 suit, and no amendment of the plaint was sought so as to
incorporate the plea of res judicata. No issue having been raised, it was
impermissible, according to the learned senior advocate, to have gone into
this plea at all. It was also argued that on the assumption that the said plea
could be gone into, there were two statutory bars to relief, namely, Section
45 of the Trade Marks Act, 1999 and Sections 6 and 8 read with Section 46(4)
of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949. The first statutory bar made it clear
that unless the assignment deed was registered, it could not be received in
evidence by any Court. Sections 6 and 8 of the Banking Regulation Act
interdicted the bank from doing any business other than banking business and
that, therefore, the assignment deed which enabled the bank to trade in goods
and to earn royalty from an assignment of the trademark would be hit by the
aforestated provisions and, therefore, would be void in law. For this purpose,
he relied strongly upon the judgment of this Court in Mathura Prasad Bajoo
Jaiswal & Ors v. Dossibai N. B. Jeejeebhoy, (1970) 1 SCC 613, and various
other judgments which have followed the law laid down by the aforesaid  13
judgment. According to him, therefore, these two statutory prohibitions being
pure questions of law, which are unrelated to facts which give rise to a
right, cannot be res judicata between the parties. According to the learned
senior advocate, both points had been raised before the Courts below with no
success. Indeed, the very letter dated 27.1.2004 cancelling the assignment
deed would itself show that the plea of the assignment deed being contrary to
the Banking Regulation Act was the very reason for cancelling the aforesaid
deed. He also referred to and relied upon the fact that the Bank Manager
responsible for signing the said deed had been dismissed from service by an
order dated 26.5.2005. Shri Mehta also strongly relied upon a judgment dated
29.1.2011, by the Sessions Court in Bangalore, by which the Chief Manager, one
A. Sheshagiri Rao, who was made accused No.1 in a special criminal case filed
by the CBI and respondent Nos. 1 and 2, who were made accused nos. 2 and 3
respectively, were each sentenced to 6 months, three years and two years
respectively by the learned Sessions Judge, having been convicted under
Sections 120B and 420 of the Indian Penal Code. Accused No.1 was also  14
convicted of an offence under Section 13 of the Prevention of Corruption Act,
1988. According to the learned senior advocate, therefore, the doctrine of res
judicata cannot be stretched to allow perpetuation of a fraud committed upon
the bank.
12\. Shri Shanthakumar Mahale, learned advocate appearing for respondent nos.
1 and 2, on the other hand, defended the judgments of the Courts below.
According to the learned counsel, the judgment dated 27.4.2013 was delivered
long after the Chief Manager was dismissed and after the Sessions Judge’s
judgment dated 29.1.2011 convicting respondent Nos. 1 and 2. This judgment
specifically held that there was no fraud played, that the bank itself sought
the assignment from respondent Nos. 1 and 2, and that since there was no
misrepresentation, undue influence etc., the assignment deed was valid in law,
the cancellation of the said deed being illegal. This judgment is final
between the parties and has never been challenged, except by way of a review
which was filed belatedly after hearing both parties in the appeal. The said
review  15 petition, which is obviously an abuse of process with huge delay,
could not possibly render the res sub judice so as to affect the judgments of
the Courts below. According to the learned counsel, neither Section 45 of the
Trade Marks Act nor Sections 6 and 8 of the Banking Regulation Act are capable
of only one obvious interpretation so that, on their application, the
assignment deed becomes illegal in law.
13\. We had appointed Shri K.V. Viswanathan, learned senior counsel, as Amicus
Curiae to guide us in this matter. He has referred to a large number of
judgments and has rendered invaluable assistance to this Court in order that
we arrive at a proper and just conclusion in this matter. He has argued that
the review petition that is filed belatedly against the judgment dated
27.4.2013, being grossly belated with no chance of success, would not take
away the res judicata effect of the judgment dated 27.4.2013. According to the
learned senior counsel, the case law makes it clear that if an appeal is filed
within limitation, the res never becomes judicata. In fact, until the
limitation for filing an appeal is over, the res remains sub  16 judice. It is
only also when the limitation period is over that the res can be considered to
be judicata. Depending upon the length of time for which delay is sought to be
condoned, the Court can either proceed with the matter and consider the case
on the footing of res judicata or stay further proceedings in order to await
the outcome of the proceedings in the appeal in the other case. The test,
according to the learned senior counsel, is whether the delay in filing the
appeal can be considered by the Court to be without sufficient cause and,
therefore, an abuse of process. It is also important to find out whether third
party rights have arisen in the meanwhile. He has cited a large number of
judgments before us, including the position in the U.K. and U.S.
Interestingly, he cited judgments to show that in the United States, res
judicata attaches the moment a judgment is pronounced, despite the fact that
an appeal may be filed against the said judgment.
14\. We may first deal with the preliminary point urged by Shri Mehta. He
pressed into service the judgment in V. Rajeshwari v. T.C. Saravanabava,
(2004) 1 SCC 551 for the proposition  17 that a plea of res judicata not
properly raised in the pleadings or put in issue at the stage of trial could
not be permitted to be taken. A closer look at the said judgment shows that
the judgment dealt with such a plea not being permitted to be raised for the
first time at the stage of appeal. In the present case, though an issue as to
res judicata was not struck between the parties, both parties argued the
matter based upon the pleadings and the judgment contained in the two suits of
2004\. It is only after full arguments on both sides that the trial Court in
the judgment dated 30.10.2015 accepted the respondent’s plea of res judicata.
Even before the appellate Court, the point of res judicata was argued by both
parties without adverting to the aforesaid objection. It is obvious,
therefore, that this ground raised for the first time before this Court,
cannot non-suit the respondents.
15\. The doctrine of res judicata is contained in Section 11 of the Code of
Civil Procedure, 1908, which, though not exhaustive of all the facets of the
doctrine, delineates what  18 exactly the doctrine of res judicata is in the
Indian context. Section 11 reads as under:
> “11. Res judicata - No Court shall try any suit or issue in which the matter
> directly and substantially in issue has been directly and substantially in
> issue in a former suit between the same parties, or between parties under
> whom they or any of them claim, litigating under the same title, in a Court
> competent to try such subsequent suit or the suit in which such issue has
> been subsequently raised, and has been heard and finally decided by such
> Court. Explanation I.—The expression “former suit” shall denote a suit which
> has been decided prior to the suit in question whether or not it was
> instituted prior thereto.
> Explanation II.—For the purposes of this section, the competence of a Court
> shall be determined irrespective of any provisions as to a right of appeal
> from the decision of such Court. Explanation III.—The matter above referred
> to must in the former suit have been alleged by one party and either denied
> or admitted, expressly or impliedly, by the other.
> Explanation IV.—Any matter which might and ought to have been made ground of
> defence or attack in such former suit shall be deemed to have been a matter
> directly and substantially in issue in such suit.
> Explanation V.—Any relief claimed in the plaint, which is not expressly
> granted by the decree, shall, for the purposes of this section, be deemed to
> have been refused.
19
Explanation VI.—Where persons litigate bona fide in respect of public right or
of a private right claimed in common for themselves and others, all persons
interested in such right shall, for the purposes of this section, be deemed to
claim under the persons so litigating.
Explanation VII.—The provisions of this section shall apply to a proceeding
for the execution of a decree and reference in this section to any suit, issue
or former suit shall be construed as references, respectively, to proceedings
for the execution of the decree, question arising in such proceeding and a
former proceeding for the execution of that decree.
Explanation VIII.—An issue heard and finally decided by a Court of limited
jurisdiction, competent to decide such issue, shall operate as res judicata in
a subsequent suit, notwithstanding that such Court of limited jurisdiction was
not competent to try such subsequent suit or the suit in which such issue has
been subsequently raised.”
16\. This Court in Sheodan Singh v. Daryao Kunwar, (1966) 3 SCR 300 (at
304-305) has stated with some felicity the conditions that need to be
satisfied in order to constitute a matter as res judicata. This Court held:
> “A plain reading of Section 11 shows that to constitute a matter res
> judicata, the following conditions must be satisfied, namely—
> (i) The matter directly and substantially in issue in the subsequent suit or
> issue must be the same  20 matter which was directly and substantially in
> issue in the former suit;
> (ii) The former suit must have been a suit between the same parties or
> between parties under whom they or any of them claim;
> (iii) The parties must have litigated under the same title in the former
> suit;
> (iv) The court which decided the former suit must be a court competent to
> try the subsequent suit or the suit in which such issue is subsequently
> raised; and
> (v) The matter directly and substantially in issue in the subsequent suit
> must have been heard and finally decided by the court in the first suit.
> Further Explanation I shows that it is not the date on which the suit is
> filed that matters but the date on which the suit is decided, so that even
> if a suit was filed later, it will be a former suit if it has been decided
> earlier. In order therefore that the decision in the earlier two appeals
> dismissed by the High Court operates as res judicata it will have to be seen
> whether all the five conditions mentioned above have been satisfied.”
17\. As to what happens when an appeal is filed against a judgment in the
first proceeding, a Full Bench of the Allahabad High Court in Balkishan v.
Kishan Lal, (1888) ILR 11 All 148 (at 159-161), is most instructive. Mahmood,
J., speaking for the Full Bench, referred to Explanation IV to Section 13 of
the Code  21 of Civil Procedure, as it then stood. The learned Judge referred
to the said explanation in the following terms:
> “The latter part of the Explanation IV of that section has been framed in
> somewhat unspecific language, and runs as follows:
> “A decision liable to appeal may be final within the meaning of this section
> until the appeal is made.” The language of the section is silent as to what
> happens when an appeal has been preferred;
> and no doubt much depends upon the interpretation of two vague words “may”
> and “until” as they occur in the sentence which I have just quoted. I may
> perhaps say that more has been aimed at by that sentence than the few words
> of which that sentence consists could convey. What has been left unsettled
> by that sentence is the difficulty pointed out by a juristic Judge of such
> eminence as Mr. Justice Holloway of Madras in Sri Raja Kakarlapudi
> Suriyanarayanarazu Garu v. Chellamkuri Chellamma [5 M.H.C.R. 176] when that
> learned Judge said:
> “In the lower Court it seems to have been taken for granted that the former
> judgment could not be conclusive because an appeal was pending. This is not
> in accordance with English law, as the judgment on the rejoinder in Doe v.
> Wright [10 A. & E. 763] shows. It would, however, be perfectly sound
> doctrine in the view of other jurists (Unger Oct. Priv. Recht, II, 603, Sav.
> Syst., 297, Seq. Waihier, II, 549). As an Englishman I should be sorry to
> invite a  22 comparison between the reasons given by these great jurists for
> their and those embodied in the English cases for the contrary doctrine.”
> xxx xxx xxx I hold that the views thus expressed by Pothier and, as Mr.
> Justice Holloway has indicated, adopted by other continental jurists as to
> the doctrine of res judicata, are consistent with the interpretation which I
> place upon Explanation IV of s. 13 of the Code of Civil Procedure in
> relation to the authority of judgments still liable to appeal.
Such judgments are not definitive adjudications. They are only provisional,
and not being final cannot operate as res judicata. Such indeed seems to be
the view adopted by the learned Judges of the Bombay High Court when they
said, in Nilvaru v. Nilvaru [ILR 6 Bom. 110.], “We consider that when the
judgment of a Court of first instance upon a particular issue is appealed
against, that judgment ceases to be res judicata and becomes res sub judice.”
In this case, therefore, both the Courts below were wrong in law in holding
that the previous judgment of the 10th March, 1886, which at the date of the
institution of this suit was still liable to appeal, and which at the date of
the decision of this suit by the first Court, as also at the date of the
decision by the lower appellate Court, was the subject of a second appeal
pending in this Court (S.A. No. 973 of 1886) could operate as res judicata in
favour of the plaintiff in regard to his title as to the malikana.”  23
18\. The Privy Council, in an early judgment in S.P.A. Annamalay Chetty v.
B.A. Thornhill AIR 1931 PC 263 (at 264), was faced with the question as to
whether the filing of an appeal would by itself take away the res judicata
effect or whether a matter heard and finally decided by the first Court was
res judicata until it was set aside on appeal. The Privy Council held:
> “Section 207 of the Civil Procedure Code, 1889, provides as follows:
> “All decrees passed by the Court shall, subject to appeal, when an appeal is
> allowed, be final between the parties;
> and no plaintiff shall be non-suited.” The appellant maintained that, under
> this provision, no decree, from which an appeal lies and has in fact been
> taken, is final between the parties so as to form res judicata, while the
> respondent contended that such a decree was final between the parties and
> formed res adjudicata until it was set aside on appeal. In their Lordships’
> opinion the former view is the correct one, and where an appeal lies the
> finality of the decree on such appeal being taken, is qualified by the
> appeal and the decree is not final in the sense that it will form res
> adjudicata as between the same parties. The opinion of the learned Judges of
> the Supreme Court clearly inclined to the same view, and their Lordships
> have a difficulty in appreciating why the learned  24 Judges found it
> unnecessary to decide this point, for this view still leaves it open to the
> Court to see that the appellant does not get decree twice over for the same
> sum, and it is inconsistent with the other ground expressed by them for
> their decision that the appellant’s cause of action had been merged into the
> decree in Action No. 4122, since, according to this view, that decree was
> not final. Their Lordships regret that the second action was not adjourned
> pending the decision of the appeal in the first action, as that would have
> simplified procedure and saved expense.”
19\. Our law, therefore, is different from the American law – a decree from
which an appeal lies and has in fact been filed would render the res sub
judice and not judicata. This judgment of the Privy Council has been
repeatedly followed by the High Courts in this country. See, Parshotam
Parbhudas v. Bai Moti AIR 1963 Gujarat 30 at para 8, Bhavani Amma v. Narayana
Acharya AIR 1963 Mysore 120 at para 2, Satyanarayan Prosad Gooptu v. Diana
Engineering Company AIR 1952 Calcutta 124 at para 10 and Venkateswarlu v.
Venkata Narasimham AIR 1957 Andhra Pradesh 557 at para 3.
20\. In Chengalavala Gurraju v. Madapathy Venkateswara Row Pantulu Garu AIR
1917 Madras 597 at 599-600, a  25 Division Bench of the Madras High Court
referred to and relied upon Balkishan (supra). The Court then held:
> “Explanation 4 to Section 13 of the Civil Procedure Code of 1882 which
> enacted that a decision liable to appeal may be final within the meaning of
> the Section until the appeal is made has been omitted in the present Code
> (of 1908) and the omission (which was in all probability made in view of the
> decision in Bal Kishan v. Kishan Lal (1889) 11 All 148) removes any doubts
> or difficulties in dealing with the question and it is not necessary to
> speculate on the class of cases to which this explanation can be applied if
> a judgment liable to appeal is only held to be provisional and not operative
> as res judicata. In dealing with Section 52 of the Transfer of Property Act
> it has been held that a person who purchases property between the date of
> the disposal of the suit and the filing of the appeal would be bound by the
> rule of lis pendens: Gobind Chunder Roy v. Guru Churn Kurmokar (1888) 15
> Cal. 94, Dinonath Ghose v. Shama Bibi (1901) 28 Cal. 23, Sukhdeo Prasad v.
> Jamna (1901) 23 All 60, Settappa Gounden v. Muthia Gounden (1908) 31 Mad.
> 268. If the appeal is only a continuation of the original proceedings and
> the suit is, for the purpose of Section 52 of the Transfer of Property Act,
> regarded as pending between the date of the decree and that of the filing of
> an appeal, it is difficult to see why the same rule should not apply when
> dealing with Section 11 of the Civil Procedure Code.
xxx xxx xxx  26 As regards appeals filed out of time and after independent
rights between the parties have ripened, it is unlikely that courts would
excuse the delay, if during the interval other rights come into existence,
which would render it inequitable that questions disposed of should be re-
opened at the instance of a party who seeks the indulgence of the court:
Esdaile v. Payne (1889) 40 Ch. D. 520. Following the decision in Bal Kishen v.
Kishen Lal, we are of opinion that the Sub-Collector was wrong in holding that
the decision passed by him in Suits Nos. 466 of 1909 and 276 of 1910 had the
force of res judicata during the interval between the date of his decree and
the time allowed by law for filing the appeal.”
21\. This judgment was followed in Baijnath Karnani v. Vallabhdas Damani, AIR
1933 Madras 511 at 514.
22\. The conspectus of the above authorities shows that until the limitation
period for filing of an appeal is over, the res remains sub judice. After the
limitation period is over, the res decided by the first Court would then
become judicata. However, questions arise as to what is to be done in matters
where the hearing in the second case is shortly after the limitation period
for filing an appeal in the first case has ended. At least two judgments, one
of the Privy Council and one of the Bombay  27 High Court, have referred to
the fact that, in appropriate cases, the hearing in the second case may be
adjourned or may be stayed in order to await the outcome of the appeal in the
first case. See, Chandra Singh Dudhoria v. Midnapore Zemindary Co. Ltd. (1941)
69 IA 51 (PC) at 58-59 and Indra Singh and Sons Ltd. v. Shiavax. C. Cambata,
ILR 1948 Bom 346 at 352.
[[
23\. If the period of limitation for filing an appeal has not yet expired or
has just expired, the Court hearing the second proceeding can very well ask
the party who has lost the first round whether he intends to appeal the
aforesaid judgment. If the answer is yes, then it would be prudent to first
adjourn the second proceeding and then stay the aforesaid proceedings, after
the appeal has been filed, to await the outcome of the appeal in the first
proceeding. If, however, a sufficiently long period has elapsed after
limitation has expired, and no appeal has yet been filed in the first
proceeding, the Court hearing the second proceeding would be justified in
treating the first proceeding as res judicata. No hard and fast rule can be
applied. The entire fact circumstance in each case must be  28 looked at
before deciding whether to proceed with the second proceeding on the basis of
res judicata or to adjourn and/or stay the second proceeding to await the
outcome in the first proceeding. Many factors have to be considered before
exercising this discretion – for example, the fact that the appeal against the
first judgment is grossly belated; or that the said appeal would, in the
ordinary course, be heard after many years in the first proceeding; or, the
fact that third party rights have intervened, thereby making it unlikely that
delay would be condoned in the appeal in the first proceeding. As has been
stated, the judicious use of the weapon of stay would, in many cases, obviate
a Court of first instance in the second proceeding treating a matter as res
judicata only to find that by the time the appeal has reached the hearing
stage against the said judgment in the second proceeding, the res becomes sub
judice again because of condonation of delay and the consequent hearing of the
appeal in the first proceeding. This would result in setting aside the trial
Court judgment in the second proceeding, and a de novo hearing on merits in
the second proceeding commencing on remand, thereby wasting the Court’s time
and  29 dragging the parties into a second round of litigation on the merits
of the case.
24\. In the present case, a belated review petition was filed after arguments
were heard and judgment reserved by the appellate Court. Would this Court have
to await the outcome of the said review petition before deciding whether the
judgment dated 27.4.2013 is res judicata? Obviously not. It is clear that a
review petition filed long after the judgment dated 27.4.2013, with a
condonation application for a delay of over four years, could not possibly be
held to be anything but an abuse of the process of the Court. This being so,
we proceed to examine whether the judgment dated 27.4.2013 can be considered
to be res judicata in the second proceeding in this case, namely the suit of
2008 filed by respondent No.1. We now come to the argument of Shri Dhruv Mehta
based on the application of the principles contained in Mathura Prasad
(supra).
25\. In Mathura Prasad (supra), a question arose as to whether an erroneous
judgment on the jurisdiction of the Small Causes Court in relation to a
proceeding arising out of the  30 Bombay Rents, Hotel and Lodging House Rates
Control Act, 1947 would be res judicata. The view expressed by the High Court
was overruled by this Court in 1962, by which time the trial Judge and the
High Court of Bombay rejected an application filed by the appellant for an
order determining standard rent of the premises. This Court laid down:
> “5. But the doctrine of res judicata belongs to the domain of procedure: it
> cannot be exalted to the status of a legislative direction between the
> parties so as to determine the question relating to the interpretation of
> enactment affecting the jurisdiction of a Court finally between them, even
> though no question of fact or mixed question of law and fact and relating to
> the right in dispute between the parties has been determined thereby. A
> decision of a competent Court on a matter in issue may be res judicata in
> another proceeding between the same parties: the “matter in issue” may be an
> issue of fact, an issue of law, or one of mixed law and fact. An issue of
> fact or an issue of mixed law and fact decided by a competent Court is
> finally determined between the parties and cannot be re-opened between them
> in another proceeding.
The previous decision on a matter in issue alone is res judicata: the reasons
for the decision are not res judicata. A matter in issue between the parties
is the right claimed by one party and denied by the other, and the claim of
right from its very nature depends upon proof of facts and application of the
relevant law thereto. A pure question of law unrelated to facts which give
rise  31 to a right, cannot be deemed to be a matter in issue. When it is said
that a previous decision is res judicata, it is meant that the right claimed
has been adjudicated upon and cannot again be placed in contest between the
same parties. A previous decision of a competent Court on facts which are the
foundation of the right and the relevant law applicable to the determination
of the transaction which is the source of the right is res judicata. A
previous decision on a matter in issue is a composite decision: the decision
on law cannot be dissociated from the decision on facts on which the right is
founded. A decision on an issue of law will be as res judicata in a subsequent
proceeding between the same parties, if the cause of action of the subsequent
proceeding be the same as in the previous proceeding, but not when the cause
of action is different, nor when the law has since the earlier decision been
altered by a competent authority, nor when the decision relates to the
jurisdiction of the Court to try the earlier proceeding, nor when the earlier
decision declares valid a transaction which is prohibited by law. xxx xxx xxx
7\. Where the law is altered since the earlier decision, the earlier decision
will not operate as res judicata between the same parties: Tarini Charan
Bhattacharjee’s case. It is obvious that the matter in issue in a subsequent
proceeding is not the same as in the previous proceeding, because the law
interpreted is different.
8\. In a case relating to levy of tax a decision valuing property or
determining liability to tax in a different taxable period or event is binding
only in that period or event, and is not binding in the  32 subsequent years,
and therefore the rule of res judicata has no application: See Broken Hill
Proprietary Company Ltd. v. Municipal Council of Broken Hill [(1926) AC 94].
9\. A question of jurisdiction of the Court, or of procedure, or a pure
question of law unrelated to the right of the parties to a previous suit, is
not res judicata in the subsequent suit. Rankin, C.J., observed in Tarini
Charan Bhattacharjee’s case: “The object of the doctrine of res judicata is
not to fasten upon parties special principles of law as applicable to them
inter se, but to ascertain their rights and the facts upon which these rights
directly and substantially depend; and to prevent this ascertainment from
becoming nugatory by precluding the parties from reopening or recontesting
that which has been finally decided.”
10\. A question relating to the jurisdiction of a Court cannot be deemed to
have been finally determined by an erroneous decision of the Court. If by an
erroneous interpretation of the statute the Court holds that it has no
jurisdiction, the question would not, in our judgment, operate as res
judicata. Similarly by an erroneous decision if the Court assumes jurisdiction
which it does not possess under the statute, the question cannot operate as
res judicata between the same parties, whether the cause of action in the
subsequent litigation is the same or otherwise.
11\. It is true that in determining the application of the rule of res
judicata the Court is not concerned with the correctness or otherwise of the
earlier judgment. The matter in issue, if it is one purely of fact, decided in
the earlier  33 proceeding by a competent Court must in a subsequent
litigation between the same parties be regarded as finally decided and cannot
be reopened. A mixed question of law and fact determined in the earlier
proceeding between the same parties may not, for the same reason, be
questioned in a subsequent proceeding between the same parties. But, where the
decision is on a question of law i.e. the interpretation of a statute, it will
be res judicata in a subsequent proceeding between the same parties where the
cause of action is the same, for the expression “the matter in issue” in
Section 11 of the Code of Civil Procedure means the right litigated between
the parties i.e. the facts on which the right is claimed or denied and the law
applicable to the determination of that issue. Where, however, the question is
one purely of law and it relates to the jurisdiction of the Court or a
decision of the Court sanctioning something which is illegal, by resort to the
rule of res judicata a party affected by the decision will not be precluded
from challenging the validity of that order under the rule of res judicata,
for a rule of procedure cannot supersede the law of the land.” [Emphasis
Supplied] (at pages 617-619)
26\. Ultimately, the Court held that since the decision of the Civil Judge
that he had no jurisdiction to entertain the application of standard rent, in
view of the judgment of the Supreme Court, was plainly erroneous, the decision
in the previous proceedings cannot be regarded as conclusive. The appeals
were, therefore,  34 allowed and the orders passed by the High Court and the
Court of Small Causes were set aside and the proceedings were remanded to the
Court of first instance.
27\. This judgment has been followed in a number of cases. In Sushil Kumar
Mehta v. Gobind Ram Bohra (1990) 1 SCC 193, the aforesaid judgment was
referred to in paragraphs 20 and 21 and followed, holding that where there is
an inherent lack of jurisdiction, which depends upon a wrong decision, the
earlier wrong decision cannot be res judicata. Similarly, in Isabella Johnson
(Smt.) v. M.A. Susai (1991) 1 SCC 494, this Court, after setting out the law
contained in Mathura Prasad (supra), stated that a Court which has no
jurisdiction in law cannot be conferred with jurisdiction by applying the
principle of res judicata, as it is well settled that there is no estoppel on
a pure question of law which relates to jurisdiction.
28\. An instructive Full Bench decision of the Punjab and Haryana High Court
was cited before us by Shri Viswanathan, State of Punjab v. Nand Kishore, AIR
1974 Punjab & Haryana 303 at 308-309, which further explained the ratio of
Mathura  35 Prasad (supra). What troubled the Full Bench, after referring to
Mathura Prasad (supra), was as to whether an issue of law decided inter
parties could be held to be res judicata in a subsequent proceeding between
the same parties. After referring to Mohanlal Goenka v. Benoy Krishna
Mukherjee, (1953) SCR 377, which held that even an erroneous decision on a
question of law operates as res judicata between parties, and various other
Supreme Court judgments, the Full Bench of the Punjab and Haryana High Court,
by a majority decision, went on to hold:
> “17. What exactly then is the ratio decidendi in Mathura Prasad’s case? It
> is manifest that the sole issue in the appeal was as to the jurisdiction of
> the Court of Small Causes for determining the standard rent of premises
> constructed in pursuance of a building lease of an open site. Therefore, the
> authority is a precedent primarily on the limited issue of the jurisdiction
> of a Court.
What directly arose for determination therein and what has been specifically
laid down by their Lordships is that a patently erroneous decision (directly
contrary to a Supreme Court judgment) in a previous proceeding in regard to
the jurisdiction of a Court could not becomes res judicata between the
parties. The weighty reason for so holding was that such a result would create
a special rule of law applicable to the parties in  36 relation to the
jurisdiction of the Court in violation of rule of law declared by the
legislature. It is manifest that this enunciation was an engrafted exception
to the general principle noticed in the judgment itself, i.e., a question of
law including the interpretation of a statute would be res judicata between
the same parties where the cause of action is the same.
I am inclined to the view that it is unprofitable and indeed unwarranted to
extract an observation and a sentence here and there from the judgment and to
build upon it on the ground that certain results logically follow therefrom.
Such a use of precedent was disapproved by the Earl of Halsbury L. C. in Quinn
v. Leathem 1901 AC 405. Approving that view and quoting extensively therefrom
their Lordships of the Supreme Court in State of Orissa v. Sudhansu Sekhar
Misra AIR 1968 SC 647 have categorically observed as follows:
> “A decision is only an authority for what it actually decides. What is of
> the essence in a decision is its ratio and not every observation found
> therein nor what logically follows from the various observations made in
> it.”
18\. In strictness, therefore, the ratio decidendi of Mathura Prasad’s case is
confined to the issue of jurisdiction of the Court but is equally well-settled
that the obiter dicta of their Lordships is entitled to the greatest respect
and weight and is indeed binding if it can be found that they intended to lay
down a principle of law. The issue, therefore, is as to what else, apart from
the ratio, was sought to be laid down by the Supreme Court in this case. The
very closely guarded language used by their Lordships in the body of the
judgment  37 leads me to conclude that they wished to confine their
observations within the narrowest limits. The expression used (which is sought
to be extended on behalf of the respondent) is “a pure question of law
unrelated to the right of the parties to a previous suit.” It is very
significant that their Lordships, with their meticulous precision of language,
have no where laid down in the judgment that a pure question of law can never
be res judicata between the parties. Indeed it has been said to the contrary
in terms. The emphasis, therefore, in the expression abovesaid is on the fact
that such a pure question of law must be unrelated to the rights of the
parties. It stands noticed that a decision by a Court on a question of law
cannot be absolutely dissociated from the decision on the facts on which the
right is founded. Consequently what was exactly to be connoted by the
expression “a pure question of law unrelated to the rights of the parties” was
itself expounded upon by their Lordships. Without intending to be exhaustive,
the Court has indicated specifically the exceptional cases in which special
considerations apply for excluding them from the ambit of the general
principle of res judicata. The principle of law which their Lordships herein
have reiterated is that a pure question of law including the interpretation of
a statute will be res judicata in a subsequent proceeding between the same
parties. To this salutary rule, four specific exceptions are indicated.
Firstly, the obvious one, that when the cause of action is different, the rule
of res judicata would not be attracted. Secondly, where the law has, since the
earlier decision, been altered by a competent authority. Thirdly, where the
earlier decision between the parties related to the jurisdiction of the Court
to try the earlier proceedings, the same would not be allowed to assume the
status of a special rule  38 of law applicable to the parties and therefore,
the matter would not be res judicata. Fourthly, where the earlier decision
declared valid a transaction which is patently prohibited by law, that is to
say, it sanctifies a glaring illegality.” On facts, the majority judgment of
the Full Bench held that the earlier decision inter parties was res judicata
as it was on a question of law which was not unrelated to the rights of the
parties. Sharma, J. dissented with this view, and held that the decision
rendered in the earlier case was erroneous and related to the jurisdiction of
the Court. Since a wrong decision on a point of jurisdiction could not operate
as res judicata, the learned Judge dissented.
29\. An appeal from the Division Bench judgment pursuant to the Full Bench
decision resulted in the decision in Nand Kishore v. State of Punjab, (1995) 6
SCC 614. A brief resume of the facts show that the appellant had been
compulsorily retired, having completed only ten years’ qualifying service in
pursuance of Rule 5.32(b) of the Punjab Civil Services Rules, Volume II. A
writ petition that was moved by the appellant  39 against the compulsory
retirement order was dismissed on 2.2.1962. The appellant had not questioned
the validity of Rule 5.32(b) in the aforesaid writ petition. However, in Moti
Ram Deka v. General Manager, N.E. Frontier Railways, (1964) 5 SCR 683, this
Court held that if the compulsory retirement rule permitted an authority to
retire a public servant at a very early stage of his career, such rule might
be constitutionally invalid. The appellant, spurred by the decision in Moti
Ram Deka (supra), filed a suit in 1964 for a declaration that Rule 5.32 of the
aforesaid rules was constitutionally invalid. A pari materia rule to that of
Rule 5.32 was struck down by this Court in Gurdev Singh Sidhu v. State of
Punjab, (1964) 7 SCR 587. However, since a writ petition had been filed by the
appellant earlier, the State of Punjab, in its written statement to the suit
filed by the appellant, took up the plea of constructive res judicata. This
plea found favour with the Full Bench of the High Court on 8.5.1974, following
which a Division Bench allowed the appeal of the State of Punjab on 13.8.1974.
It is from this judgment that an appeal landed up before this Court, as is
stated hereinabove. This Court, on 6.12.1990, advised the appellant to file a
special  40 leave petition from the order of the High Court dismissing his
writ petition dated 5.2.1962, with an appropriate application for condonation
of delay. The delay was condoned by this Court in the interest of justice in
the special circumstances of this case under Article 142, and the said belated
appeal was allowed following Gurdev Singh (supra) and striking down the order
of compulsory retirement of the appellant. Despite having so decided, this
Court went into the doctrine of constructive res judicata and decided that the
constitutionality of a provision of law stands on a different footing from
other questions of law. As there is a presumption of constitutionality of all
statutes, the “might and ought” rule of constructive res judicata cannot be
applied. Instead what was applied by this Court was that part of the decision
in Mathura Prasad (supra) which stated that when the law has, since the
earlier decision in the appellant’s writ petition, been altered by a competent
authority, res judicata cannot apply. The Full Bench of the Punjab High Court
was expressly overruled on the point that a “competent authority” can also be
a Court. Hence, a changed declaration of law would also fall within an earlier
decision being altered by a competent  41 authority. This Court, therefore,
held that since this Court itself had altered the law when it declared the
pari materia rule as unconstitutional, the doctrine of res judicata could not
apply.
30\. In Allahabad Development Authority v. Nasiruzzaman (1996) 6 SCC 424, this
Court held that when the previous decision was found to be erroneous on its
face, such judgment cannot operate as res judicata, as to give effect to such
judgment would be to counter a statutory prohibition. On the facts of that
case, it was held that in a land acquisition case, after vesting has taken
place in favour of the State, obviously, the lapse of a notification under
Section 6 of the Land Acquisition Act, 1894 could not possibly arise.
31\. In Shakuntla Devi v. Kamla (2005) 5 SCC 390, this Court held that in view
of the changed position in law consequent to a contrary interpretation put on
Section 14 of the Hindu Succession Act, 1956 by V.Tulasamma vs. V.Sesha Reddy
(1977) 3 SCC 99, the earlier decree based on judgments that were overruled
cannot operate as res judicata. This is in  42 consonance with the law laid
down by this Court in Nand Kishore (supra).
32\. Since Mathura Prasad (supra) followed the Full Bench judgment of the
Calcutta High Court in Tarini Charan Bhattacharjee and others v. Kedar Nath
Haldar, AIR 1928 Calcutta 777 (at 781-782), it is important to set out what
the Full Bench said in answer to the question posed by it – namely, whether an
erroneous decision on a pure question of law operates as res judicata in a
subsequent suit where the same question is raised. The answer given by the
Full Bench is in four propositions set out hereinbelow:
> “(1) The question whether the decision is correct or erroneous has no
> bearing upon the question whether it operates or does not operate as res
> judicata. The doctrine is that in certain circumstances, the Court shall not
> try a suit or issue, but shall deal with the matter on the footing that it
> is a matter no longer open to contest by reason of a previous decision. In
> these circumstances, it must necessarily be wrong for a Court to try the
> suit or issue, come to its own conclusion thereon, consider whether the
> previous decision is right and give effect to it or not accordingly, as it
> conceives the previous decision to be right or wrong. To say as a result  43
> of such disorderly procedure that the previous decision was wrong and that
> it was wrong on a point of law, or on a pure point of law, and that,
> therefore, it may be disregarded, is an indefensible form of reasoning. For
> this purpose, it is not true that a point of law is always open to a party.
(2) In India, at all events, a party who takes a plea of res judicata has to
show that the matter directly and substantially in issue has been directly and
substantially in issue in the former suit and also that it has been heard and
finally decided. This phrase “matter directly and substantially in issue” has
to be given a sensible and businesslike meaning, particularly in view of Ex.
4,Section 11, Civil P.C., which contains the expression “grounds of defence or
attack”. Section 11 of the Code says nothing about causes of action, a phrase
which always requires careful handling. Nor does the section say anything
about points or points of law, or pure points of law. As a rule parties do not
join issue upon academic or abstract questions but upon matters of importance
to themselves. The section requires that the doctrine be restricted to matters
in issue and of these to matters which are directly as well as substantially
in issue.
(3) Questions of law are of all kinds and cannot be dealt with as though they
were all the same. Questions of procedure, questions affecting jurisdiction,
questions of limitation, may all be questions of law. In such questions the
rights of parties are not the only matter for consideration. The Court and the
public have an interest. When plea of res judicata is raised with reference to
such matters, it is at least a question whether special considerations do not
apply.
44 (4) In any case in which it is found that the matter directly and
substantially in issue has been directly and substantially in issue in the
former suit and has been heard and finally decided by such Court, the
principle of res judicata is not to be ignored merely on the ground that the
reasoning, whether in law or otherwise of the previous decision can be
attacked on a particular point. On the other hand it is plain from the terms
of Section 11 of the Code that what is made conclusive between the parties is
the decision of the Court and that the reasoning of the Court is not
necessarily the same thing as its decision. The object of the doctrine of res
judicata is not to fasten upon parties special principles of law as applicable
to them inter se, but to ascertain their rights and the facts upon which these
rights directly and substantially depend; and to prevent this ascertainment
from becoming nugatory by precluding the parties from reopening or
recontesting that which has been finally decided.”
33\. Given the conspectus of authorities that have been referred to by us
hereinabove, the law on the subject may be stated as follows:
(1) The general rule is that all issues that arise directly and substantially
in a former suit or proceeding between the same parties are res judicata in a
subsequent suit or proceeding between the same parties. These would include
45 issues of fact, mixed questions of fact and law, and issues of law.
(2) To this general proposition of law, there are certain exceptions when it
comes to issues of law:
(i) Where an issue of law decided between the same parties in a former suit or
proceeding relates to the jurisdiction of the Court, an erroneous decision in
the former suit or proceeding is not res judicata in a subsequent suit or
proceeding between the same parties, even where the issue raised in the second
suit or proceeding is directly and substantially the same as that raised in
the former suit or proceeding. This follows from a reading of Section 11 of
the Code of Civil Procedure itself, for the Court which decides the suit has
to be a Court competent to try such suit. When read with Explanation (I) to
Section 11, it is obvious that both the former as well as the subsequent suit
need to be decided in Courts competent to try such suits, for the “former
suit” can be a suit instituted after the first suit, but which has been
decided prior to the suit which was instituted earlier. An erroneous decision
as to the  46 jurisdiction of a Court cannot clothe that Court with
jurisdiction where it has none. Obviously, a Civil Court cannot send a person
to jail for an offence committed under the Indian Penal Code. If it does so,
such a judgment would not bind a Magistrate and/or Sessions Court in a
subsequent proceeding between the same parties, where the Magistrate sentences
the same person for the same offence under the Penal Code. Equally, a Civil
Court cannot decide a suit between a landlord and a tenant arising out of the
rights claimed under a Rent Act, where the Rent Act clothes a special Court
with jurisdiction to decide such suits. As an example, under Section 28 of the
Bombay Rent Act, 1947, the Small Causes Court has exclusive jurisdiction to
hear and decide proceedings between a landlord and a tenant in respect of
rights which arise out of the Bombay Rent Act, and no other Court has
jurisdiction to embark upon the same. In this case, even though the Civil
Court, in the absence of the statutory bar created by the Rent Act, would have
jurisdiction to decide such suits, it is the statutory bar created by the Rent
Act that must be given  47 effect to as a matter of public policy. (See,
Natraj Studios (P) Ltd. v. Navrang Studios & Anr., (1981) 2 SCR 466 at
482). An erroneous decision clothing the Civil Court with jurisdiction to
embark upon a suit filed by a landlord against a tenant, in respect of rights
claimed under the Bombay Rent Act, would, therefore, not operate as res
judicata in a subsequent suit filed before the Small Causes Court between the
same parties in respect of the same matter directly and substantially in issue
in the former suit.
(ii) An issue of law which arises between the same parties in a subsequent
suit or proceeding is not res judicata if, by an erroneous decision given on a
statutory prohibition in the former suit or proceeding, the statutory
prohibition is not given effect to. This is despite the fact that the matter
in issue between the parties may be the same as that directly and
substantially in issue in the previous suit or proceeding. This is for the
reason that in such cases, the rights of the parties are not the only matter
for consideration (as is the case of an erroneous interpretation of a statute
inter parties), as the public policy contained in the statutory prohibition
48 cannot be set at naught. This is for the same reason as that contained in
matters which pertain to issues of law that raise jurisdictional questions. We
have seen how, in Natraj Studios (supra), it is the public policy of the
statutory prohibition contained in Section 28 of the Bombay Rent Act that has
to be given effect to. Likewise, the public policy contained in other
statutory prohibitions, which need not necessarily go to jurisdiction of a
Court, must equally be given effect to, as otherwise special principles of law
are fastened upon parties when special considerations relating to public
policy mandate that this cannot be done.
(iii) Another exception to this general rule follows from the matter in issue
being an issue of law different from that in the previous suit or proceeding.
This can happen when the issue of law in the second suit or proceeding is
based on different facts from the matter directly and substantially in issue
in the first suit or proceeding. Equally, where the law is altered by a
competent authority since the earlier decision, the matter in issue in the
subsequent suit or proceeding is  49 not the same as in the previous suit or
proceeding, because the law to be interpreted is different.
34\. On the facts of this case, Shri Mehta referred us to the statutory
prohibition contained in the Trade Marks Act and the Banking Regulation Act.
The relevant provisions are Section 45 of the Trade Marks Act and Sections 6
and 8 of the Banking Regulation Act read with Section 46(4) thereto. The
aforesaid statutory provisions are set out hereinbelow:
> “TRADE MARKS ACT, 1999
> 45\. Registration of assignments and transmissions (1) Where a person
> becomes entitled by assignment or transmission to a registered trade mark,
> he shall apply in the prescribed manner to the Registrar to register his
> title, and the Registrar shall, on receipt of the application and on proof
> of title to his satisfaction, register him as the proprietor of the trade
> mark in respect of the goods or services in respect of which the assignment
> or transmission has effect, and shall cause particulars of the assignment or
> transmission to be entered on the register. Provided that where the validity
> of an assignment or transmission is in dispute between the parties, the
> Registrar may refuse to register the assignment or transmission until the
> rights of the parties have been determined by a competent court.
50
(2) Except for the purpose of an application before the Registrar under sub-
section (1) or an appeal from an order thereon, or an application under
section 57 or an appeal from an order thereon, a document or instrument in
respect of which no entry has been made in the register in accordance with
sub-section (1), shall not be admitted in evidence by the Registrar or the
Appellate Board or any court in proof of title to the trade mark by assignment
or transmission unless the Registrar or the Appellate Board or the Court, as
the case may be, otherwise directs. xxx xxx xxx BANKING REGULATION ACT, 1949
6\. Forms of business in which banking companies may engage (1) In addition to
the business of banking, a banking company may engage in any one or more of
the following forms of business, namely:
(a) the borrowing, raising, or taking up of money; the lending or advancing of
money either upon or without security; the drawing, making, accepting,
discounting, buying, selling, collecting and dealing in bills of exchange,
hundies, promissory notes, coupons, drafts, bills of lading, railway receipts,
warrants, debentures, certificates, scrips and other instruments and
securities whether transferable or negotiable or not; the granting and issuing
of letters of credit, traveller’s cheques and circular notes; the buying,
selling and dealing in bullion and specie; the buying and selling of foreign
exchange including foreign bank notes; the acquiring, holding, issuing on
commission, underwriting and dealing in stock,  51 funds, shares, debentures,
debenture stock, bonds, obligations, securities and investments of all kinds;
the purchasing and selling of bonds, scrips or other forms of securities on
behalf of constituents or others, the negotiating of loans and advances; the
receiving of all kinds of bonds, scrips or valuables on deposit or for safe
custody or otherwise; the providing of safe deposit vaults; the collecting and
transmitting of money and securities;
(b) acting as agents for any Government or local authority or any other person
or persons; the carrying on of agency business of any description including
the clearing and forwarding of goods, giving of receipts and discharges and
otherwise acting as an attorney on behalf of customers, but excluding the
business of a Managing Agent or Secretary and Treasurer of a company;
(c) contracting for public and private loans and negotiating and issuing the
same;
(d) the effecting, insuring, guaranteeing, underwriting, participating in
Managing and carrying out of any issue, public or private, of State, municipal
or other loans or of shares, stock, debentures, or debenture stock of any
company, corporation or association and the lending of money for the purpose
of any such issue;
(e) carrying on and transacting every kind of guarantee and indemnity
business;
(f) Managing, selling and realising any property which may come into the
possession of the company in satisfaction or part satisfaction of any of its
claims;
52
(g) acquiring and holding and generally dealing with any property or any
right, title or interest in any such property which may form the security or
part of the security for any loans or advances or which may be connected with
any such security;
(h) undertaking and executing trusts;
(i) undertaking the administration of estates as executor, trustee or
otherwise;
(j) establishing and supporting or aiding in the establishment and support of
associations, institutions, funds, trusts and conveniences calculated to
benefit employees or ex-employees of the company or the dependents or
connections of such persons; granting pensions and allowances and making
payments towards insurance; subscribing to or guaranteeing moneys for
charitable or benevolent objects or for any exhibition or for any public,
general or useful object;
(k) the acquisition, construction, maintenance and alteration of any building
or works necessary or convenient for the purposes of the company;
(l) selling, improving, managing, developing, exchanging, leasing, mortgaging,
disposing of or turning into account or otherwise dealing with all or any part
of the property and rights of the company;
(m) acquiring and undertaking the whole or any part of the business of any
person or company, when such business is of a nature enumerated or described
in this sub-section;
(n) doing all such other things as are incidental or conducive to the
promotion or advancement of the business of the company;
53
(o) any other form of business which the Central Government may, by
notification in the Official Gazette, specify as a form of business in which
it is lawful for a banking company to engage. (2) No banking company shall
engage in any form of business other than those referred to in sub-section
(1).
xxx xxx xxx
8\. Prohibition of trading Notwithstanding anything contained in section 6 or
in any contract, no banking company shall directly or indirectly deal in the
buying or selling or bartering of goods, except in connection with the
realisation of security given to or held by it, or engage in any trade, or
buy, sell or barter goods for others otherwise than in connection with bills
of exchange received for collection or negotiation or with such of its
business as is referred to in clause (i) of sub-section (1) of section 6:
PROVIDED that this section shall not apply to any such business as is
specified in pursuance of clause (o) of sub-section (1) of section 6.
Explanation- For the purposes of this section, “goods” means every kind of
movable property, other than actionable claims, stocks, shares, money, bullion
and specie, and all instruments referred to in clause (a) of sub-section (1)
of section 6.
xxx xxx xxx
46\. Penalties (1) – (3) xxx xxx xxx (4) If any other provision of this Act is
contravened or if any default is made in-  54
(i) complying with any requirement of this Act or of any order, rule or
direction made or condition imposed there under, or
(ii) carrying out the terms of, or the obligations under, a scheme sanctioned
under sub-section (7) of section 45, by any person, such person shall be
punishable with fine which may extend to one crore rupees or twice the amount
involved in such contravention or default where such amount is quantifiable,
whichever is more, and where a contravention or default is a continuing one,
with a further fine which may extend to one lakh rupees for every day, during
which the contravention or default continues.”
35\. Insofar as Section 45 of the Trade Marks Act is concerned, it is clear
that this plea was raised throughout both the proceedings. Insofar as the
suits of 2004 were concerned, the judgment dated 27.4.2013 expressly recorded
the aforesaid plea taken on behalf of the bank, but turned it down in
paragraphs 44 and 56 as follows:
> “44. The bank has also taken further steps by virtue of the assignment deed
> dated 8.10.2003 obtained by them from N.G. Subbaraya Setty and filed an
> application to the Trademark Registry as per Ex.D2, seeking for registration
> of the assignment of the trademark obtained by them from N. Subbaraya Setty,
> the registered owner of the trademark, and the bank has also paid
> Rs.5,000-00 towards the registration fee.
But the Trademark Registry returned the said  55 application contending that,
deficit registration fee is payable by the assignee and the
assignor/registered owner of the trademark has to file an affidavit confirming
the assignment of the trademark in favour of the bank.
Subsequently, it appears no further steps have been taken by the bank to
comply with the objections raised by the Trademark Registry, and hence the
said assignment of the trademark in favour of the bank, could not be
registered with the Trademark Registry.
xxx xxx xxx
56\. So far as issue no.1 and 2 raised in O.S. No.7018/2004 is concerned,
since the plaintiff bank, has miserably failed to establish the allegations of
misrepresentation, fraud and undue influence alleged to have been played, by
N.G. Subbaraya Setty on the bank, the plaintiff bank cannot escape from the
legal consequences of assignment deed obtained by them dated 8.10.2003 and it
cannot be held that the assignment deed obtained, by the bank from N.G.
Subbaraya Setty is unenforceable. Therefore, I answer both the issues 1 and 2
raised in O.S. 7018/2004 in the negative.” (Issue No.2 in O.S. No.7018 of 2004
read as follows: Whether plaintiff proves that the deed of assignment of
trademark, entered into between plaintiff and 1 st defendant is not
enforceable in law?)  56
36\. Equally, insofar as the trial Court judgment in the second suit of 2008
is concerned, the said plea was expressly raised and turned down in the
following manner:
> “…The defendant No.1 himself has produced the original Assignment Deed and
> in this case defendant No.1 himself has taken up the contention that said
> Assignment Deed is not registered as per Trade Mark Act and as such, the
> said document cannot be considered. There are certain procedures that within
> 5 days the Assignor file an affidavit to the Trade Mark Authority in respect
> of change of user of the Trade Mark and defendant No.1 himself has moved
> application by paying Rs.5,000/- D.D. for registering the document. Inspite
> of that, the Trade Mark Authorities have not registered the Trade Mark and
> as such, the learned counsel for defendant No.1 vehemently argued that the
> said Trade Mark “Eenadu” is not registered in accordance with law and as
> such, same cannot be considered for any of the purposes. Further, it is
> contended that the Assignment Deed is not registered in accordance with
> laws. But when the Assignment Deed has been relied upon in the earlier
> judgments and parties have accepted the execution of the document, then
> defendant No.1 cannot again contend that said Assignment Deed is not
> registered and cannot be considered for any of the purposes, does not hold
> good. It is nothing but res judicata as contended by the plaintiff in the
> decisions cited above.”
37\. The impugned judgment dated 31.7.2017 also records the aforesaid
submission and turns it down stating:  57 “…Indisputably, the grounds
regarding insufficiently stamped assignment deed and non-registration of the
trade mark were argued by the Bank which were considered and addressed by the
trial Court in O.S.
No.2832/2004 and O.S. No.7018/2004. In such circumstances, raising the very
same grounds in the second round of proceedings, the issue in which the matter
directly and substantially has been heard and finally decided in a former suit
between the same parties, litigating under the same title amounts to res
judicata. Defendant No.1-Bank is precluded from raising the same objection in
the present proceedings which is finally decided holding the assignment deed
as legal and binding on the defendant No.1-Bank…”
38\. We are of the opinion that both the trial Court and the first appellate
Court were entirely wrong in treating the statutory prohibition contained in
Section 45(2) of the Trade Marks Act as res judicata. It is obvious that
neither Court has bothered to advert to Section 45 and/or interpret the same.
The second proceeding contained in O.S. No.495 of 2008 prayed for payment of a
sum of Rs.17,89,915/- along with interest thereon for the period 1.4.2004 to
30.4.2007. Paragraph 8 of the plaint in the said suit reads as under:
“8. The plaintiff has already filed a suit in O.S. No.2832/2004 against the
1st defendant for the  58 recovery of the amount payable by it under the said
Assignment Deed till the end of 31.3.2004. The cause of action for the present
suit claim had not arisen by then as the amount had not become payable by then
i.e. for the period 1.4.2004 to 30.4.2007.”
39\. Clearly, therefore, the subsequent suit of 2008 raises an issue which is
different from that contained in the earlier suit filed by the same party in
2004. Also, the earlier decision in the judgment dated 27.4.2013 has declared
valid a transaction which is prohibited by law. A cursory reading of Section
45(2) of the Trade Marks Act makes it clear that the assignment deed, if
unregistered, cannot be admitted in evidence by any Court in proof of title to
the trademark by the assignment, unless the Court itself directs otherwise. It
is clear, therefore, that any reliance upon the assignment deed dated
8.10.2003 by the earlier judgment cannot be sanctified by the plea of res
judicata, when reliance upon the assignment deed is prohibited by law.
40\. Equally, a reference to Sections 6, 8 and 46(4) of the Banking Regulation
Act would also make it clear that a bank cannot use the trademark “Eenadu” to
sell agarbathies. This  59 would be directly interdicted by Section 8, which
clearly provides that notwithstanding anything contained in Section 6 or in
any contract, no banking company shall directly or indirectly deal in the
selling of goods, except in connection with the realisation of security given
to or held by it. Also, granting permission to third parties to use the
trademark “Eenadu” and earn royalty upon the same would clearly be outside
Section 6(1) and would be interdicted by Section 6(2) which states that no
bank shall engage in any form of business other than those referred to in sub-
section (1).
41\. Shri Shanthakumar Mahale, however, exhorted us to read Sections 6(1)(f)
and (g) as permitting the sale of goods under the trademark and/or earning
royalty from a sub-assignment thereto. We are of the view that the trademark
cannot be said to be property which has come into the possession of the bank
in satisfaction or part satisfaction of any of the claims of the bank. We are
further of the view that the trademarks are not part of any security for loans
or advances that have been made to the first respondent, or connected with the
same. It is thus clear that the assignment deed dated 8.10.2003 is clearly hit
by  60 Section 6(2) and Section 8 read with the penalty provision contained in
Section 46(4) of the Banking Regulation Act.
42\. The appeal is allowed and the judgment of the trial Court and the first
appellate Court are set aside. Consequently, O.S. No.495 of 2008 filed by
respondent No.1 will stand dismissed.
………………………..J.
(Adarsh Kumar Goel) ………………………..J.
(R.F. Nariman) New Delhi;
April 20, 2018.
61
bank shall engage in any form of business other than those referred to in sub-
section (1).
41\. Shri Shanthakumar Mahale, however, exhorted us to read Sections 6(1)(f)
and (g) as permitting the sale of goods under the trademark and/or earning
royalty from a sub-assignment thereto. We are of the view that the trademark
cannot be said to be property which has come into the possession of the bank
in satisfaction or part satisfaction of any of the claims of the bank. We are
further of the view that the trademarks are not part of any security for loans
or advances that have been made to the first respondent, or connected with the
same. It is thus clear that the assignment deed dated 8.10.2003 is clearly hit
by  60 Section 6(2) and Section 8 read with the penalty provision contained in
Section 46(4) of the Banking Regulation Act.
42\. The appeal is allowed and the judgment of the trial Court and the first
appellate Court are set aside. Consequently, O.S. No.495 of 2008 filed by
respondent No.1 will stand dismissed.
………………………..J.
maxims of Roman law, namely, interest reipublicae ut sit finis 15:56:51 IST
Reason:
litium (it concerns the State that there be an end to law suits)  1 and nemo
debet bis vexari pro una at eadem causa (no man should be vexed twice over for
the same cause). Indeed, that this maxim is almost universal in all ancient
laws, including ancient Hindu texts, was discussed by Sir Lawrence Jenkins in
Sheoparsan Singh v. Ramnandan Singh, AIR 1916 PC 78 at 80-81 as follows:
> “There has been much discussion at the Bar as to the application of the plea
> of res judicata as a bar to this suit. In the view their Lordships take, the
> case has not reached the stage at which an examination of this plea and this
> discussion would become relevant. But in view of the arguments addressed to
> them, their Lordships desire to emphasise that the rule of res judicata,
> while founded on ancient precedent, is dictated by a wisdom which is for all
> time. “It has been well said,” declared Lord Coke, “interest reipublicae ut
> sit finis litium, otherwise great oppression might be done under colour and
> pretence of law”: (6 Coke, 9a). Though, the rule of the Code may be traced
> to an English source, it embodies a doctrine in no way opposed to the spirit
> of the law as expounded by the Hindu commentators. Vijnanesvara and
> Nilakantha include the plea of a former judgment among those allowed by law,
> each citing for this purpose the text of Katyayana, who describes the plea
bank shall engage in any form of business other than those referred to in sub-
section (1).
41\. Shri Shanthakumar Mahale, however, exhorted us to read Sections 6(1)(f)
and (g) as permitting the sale of goods under the trademark and/or earning
royalty from a sub-assignment thereto. We are of the view that the trademark
cannot be said to be property which has come into the possession of the bank
in satisfaction or part satisfaction of any of the claims of the bank. We are
further of the view that the trademarks are not part of any security for loans
or advances that have been made to the first respondent, or connected with the
same. It is thus clear that the assignment deed dated 8.10.2003 is clearly hit
by  60 Section 6(2) and Section 8 read with the penalty provision contained in
Section 46(4) of the Banking Regulation Act.
42\. The appeal is allowed and the judgment of the trial Court and the first
appellate Court are set aside. Consequently, O.S. No.495 of 2008 filed by
respondent No.1 will stand dismissed.
………………………..J.
maxims of Roman law, namely, interest reipublicae ut sit finis 15:56:51 IST
Reason:
litium (it concerns the State that there be an end to law suits)  1 and nemo
debet bis vexari pro una at eadem causa (no man should be vexed twice over for
the same cause). Indeed, that this maxim is almost universal in all ancient
laws, including ancient Hindu texts, was discussed by Sir Lawrence Jenkins in
Sheoparsan Singh v. Ramnandan Singh, AIR 1916 PC 78 at 80-81 as follows:
> “There has been much discussion at the Bar as to the application of the plea
> of res judicata as a bar to this suit. In the view their Lordships take, the
> case has not reached the stage at which an examination of this plea and this
> discussion would become relevant. But in view of the arguments addressed to
> them, their Lordships desire to emphasise that the rule of res judicata,
> while founded on ancient precedent, is dictated by a wisdom which is for all
> time. “It has been well said,” declared Lord Coke, “interest reipublicae ut
> sit finis litium, otherwise great oppression might be done under colour and
> pretence of law”: (6 Coke, 9a). Though, the rule of the Code may be traced
> to an English source, it embodies a doctrine in no way opposed to the spirit
> of the law as expounded by the Hindu commentators. Vijnanesvara and
> Nilakantha include the plea of a former judgment among those allowed by law,
> each citing for this purpose the text of Katyayana, who describes the plea
bank shall engage in any form of business other than those referred to in sub-
section (1).
41\. Shri Shanthakumar Mahale, however, exhorted us to read Sections 6(1)(f)
and (g) as permitting the sale of goods under the trademark and/or earning
royalty from a sub-assignment thereto. We are of the view that the trademark
cannot be said to be property which has come into the possession of the bank
in satisfaction or part satisfaction of any of the claims of the bank. We are
further of the view that the trademarks are not part of any security for loans
or advances that have been made to the first respondent, or connected with the
same. It is thus clear that the assignment deed dated 8.10.2003 is clearly hit
by  60 Section 6(2) and Section 8 read with the penalty provision contained in
Section 46(4) of the Banking Regulation Act.
42\. The appeal is allowed and the judgment of the trial Court and the first
appellate Court are set aside. Consequently, O.S. No.495 of 2008 filed by
respondent No.1 will stand dismissed.
………………………..J.
maxims of Roman law, namely, interest reipublicae ut sit finis 15:56:51 IST
Reason:
litium (it concerns the State that there be an end to law suits)  1 and nemo
debet bis vexari pro una at eadem causa (no man should be vexed twice over for
the same cause). Indeed, that this maxim is almost universal in all ancient
laws, including ancient Hindu texts, was discussed by Sir Lawrence Jenkins in
Sheoparsan Singh v. Ramnandan Singh, AIR 1916 PC 78 at 80-81 as follows:
> “There has been much discussion at the Bar as to the application of the plea
> of res judicata as a bar to this suit. In the view their Lordships take, the
> case has not reached the stage at which an examination of this plea and this
> discussion would become relevant. But in view of the arguments addressed to
> them, their Lordships desire to emphasise that the rule of res judicata,
> while founded on ancient precedent, is dictated by a wisdom which is for all
> time. “It has been well said,” declared Lord Coke, “interest reipublicae ut
> sit finis litium, otherwise great oppression might be done under colour and
> pretence of law”: (6 Coke, 9a). Though, the rule of the Code may be traced
> to an English source, it embodies a doctrine in no way opposed to the spirit
> of the law as expounded by the Hindu commentators. Vijnanesvara and
> Nilakantha include the plea of a former judgment among those allowed by law,
> each citing for this purpose the text of Katyayana, who describes the plea
> thus: “If a person though defeated at law sue again he should be answered,
> ‘You were defeated formerly’. This is called the plea of former judgment.”
> (See “The Mitakshara (Vyavahara)” Bk. II, ch. i, edited by J.R.
2
Gharpure, p. 14, and “The Mayuka,” Ch. I., sec.
1, p. 11 of Mandlik’s edition.) And so the application of the rule by the
Courts in India should be influenced by no technical considerations of form,
but by matter of substance within the limits allowed by law.”
3\. This Court in Daryao and others v. State of U.P. and others, (1962) 1 SCR
574 at 583-584, put it very well when it said:
> “In considering the essential elements of res judicata one inevitably harks
bank shall engage in any form of business other than those referred to in sub-
section (1).
41\. Shri Shanthakumar Mahale, however, exhorted us to read Sections 6(1)(f)
and (g) as permitting the sale of goods under the trademark and/or earning
royalty from a sub-assignment thereto. We are of the view that the trademark
cannot be said to be property which has come into the possession of the bank
in satisfaction or part satisfaction of any of the claims of the bank. We are
further of the view that the trademarks are not part of any security for loans
or advances that have been made to the first respondent, or connected with the
same. It is thus clear that the assignment deed dated 8.10.2003 is clearly hit
by  60 Section 6(2) and Section 8 read with the penalty provision contained in
Section 46(4) of the Banking Regulation Act.
42\. The appeal is allowed and the judgment of the trial Court and the first
appellate Court are set aside. Consequently, O.S. No.495 of 2008 filed by
respondent No.1 will stand dismissed.
………………………..J.
maxims of Roman law, namely, interest reipublicae ut sit finis 15:56:51 IST
Reason:
litium (it concerns the State that there be an end to law suits)  1 and nemo
debet bis vexari pro una at eadem causa (no man should be vexed twice over for
the same cause). Indeed, that this maxim is almost universal in all ancient
laws, including ancient Hindu texts, was discussed by Sir Lawrence Jenkins in
Sheoparsan Singh v. Ramnandan Singh, AIR 1916 PC 78 at 80-81 as follows:
> “There has been much discussion at the Bar as to the application of the plea
> of res judicata as a bar to this suit. In the view their Lordships take, the
> case has not reached the stage at which an examination of this plea and this
> discussion would become relevant. But in view of the arguments addressed to
> them, their Lordships desire to emphasise that the rule of res judicata,
> while founded on ancient precedent, is dictated by a wisdom which is for all
> time. “It has been well said,” declared Lord Coke, “interest reipublicae ut
> sit finis litium, otherwise great oppression might be done under colour and
> pretence of law”: (6 Coke, 9a). Though, the rule of the Code may be traced
> to an English source, it embodies a doctrine in no way opposed to the spirit
> of the law as expounded by the Hindu commentators. Vijnanesvara and
> Nilakantha include the plea of a former judgment among those allowed by law,
> each citing for this purpose the text of Katyayana, who describes the plea
> thus: “If a person though defeated at law sue again he should be answered,
> ‘You were defeated formerly’. This is called the plea of former judgment.”
> (See “The Mitakshara (Vyavahara)” Bk. II, ch. i, edited by J.R.
2
Gharpure, p. 14, and “The Mayuka,” Ch. I., sec.
1, p. 11 of Mandlik’s edition.) And so the application of the rule by the
Courts in India should be influenced by no technical considerations of form,
but by matter of substance within the limits allowed by law.”
3\. This Court in Daryao and others v. State of U.P. and others, (1962) 1 SCR
574 at 583-584, put it very well when it said:
> “In considering the essential elements of res judicata one inevitably harks
bank shall engage in any form of business other than those referred to in sub-
section (1).
41\. Shri Shanthakumar Mahale, however, exhorted us to read Sections 6(1)(f)
and (g) as permitting the sale of goods under the trademark and/or earning
royalty from a sub-assignment thereto. We are of the view that the trademark
cannot be said to be property which has come into the possession of the bank
in satisfaction or part satisfaction of any of the claims of the bank. We are
further of the view that the trademarks are not part of any security for loans
or advances that have been made to the first respondent, or connected with the
same. It is thus clear that the assignment deed dated 8.10.2003 is clearly hit
by  60 Section 6(2) and Section 8 read with the penalty provision contained in
Section 46(4) of the Banking Regulation Act.
42\. The appeal is allowed and the judgment of the trial Court and the first
appellate Court are set aside. Consequently, O.S. No.495 of 2008 filed by
respondent No.1 will stand dismissed.
………………………..J.
