Delhi High Court
M/S Phonographic Performance ... vs M/S Radio Mid Day (West) India Ltd. on 7
April, 2010
Author: Madan B. Lokur
    *           HIGH COURT OF DELHI AT NEW DELHI
    +           RFA No. 440/2009
                               Judgment reserved on: March 04, 2010
    %                       Judgment pronounced on: April 07, 2010
          M/S. PHONOGRAPHIC PERFORMANCE LTD
          Having its registered Office at
          Crescent Towers, 7th Floor, B-68
          Veera Estate, Off New Link road
          Andheri (W), Bombay-400 053
          And also at:
          G-11, Ground Floor, Nizamuddin West
          New Delhi-110 013.
          Through it authorized representative
          Debasrita Das Biswas.                          ...Appellant
                            Through     Mr. Ashwani K. Mata, Sr. Adv.
                            with Mr. Himanshu Bagai, Mr. Thomas
was not before us.
RFA No. 440/2009 Page 36 of 37 We hold that the Copyright Board erred in its
order passed on 25 th August, 2009 in relying on the order dated 4 th August,
2009 passed by a Division Bench of this Court for coming to the conclusion
that the annual report of the Respondent and other documents were
―inadmissible‖ in evidence. The admissibility or otherwise of those documents
was not before the Division Bench at all. To this limited extent we set aside
the order of the Copyright Board dated 25 th August, 2009 leaving this issue
to be decided at some appropriate stage, as may be advised.
Since the order of the Division Bench suggests its anxiety to have the
complaint before the Copyright Board expeditiously disposed of, we would
request the Copyright Board to try and quickly dispose it off, keeping in mind
at all times the procedural practice suggested by the Supreme Court in Navjot
Sandhu and the law laid down by us.
57\. The appeal is partly dismissed.
                                             (MADAN B. LOKUR)
                            with Mr. Himanshu Bagai, Mr. Thomas
                            George and Ms. Manmeet Sethi, Advocates
                            Versus
          M/S. RADIO MID DAY( WEST) INDIA LTD
          156 D, J. Dadajee Road
          Tardeo Road
          Mumbai-34.                          ...Respondent
                            Through Mr. Neeraj Kishan Kaul, Sr.
                            Advocate with Mr. Neil Hildreth, Advocate
    Coram:
    HON'BLE THE ACTING CHIEF JUSTICE
    HON'BLE MS. JUSTICE MUKTA GUPTA
    1. Whether the Reporters of local papers may
       be allowed to see the judgment?                          Yes
    RFA No. 440/2009                                     Page 1 of 37
     2. To be referred to Reporter or not?                             Yes
    3. Whether the judgment should be reported
       in the Digest?                                                 Yes
    MADAN B. LOKUR, ACJ
          Three issues that arise for our consideration are: First, whether this
    appeal under Section 72(2) of the Copyright Act, 1957 is maintainable
    against interlocutory orders passed by the Copyright Board. In our
    opinion, the answer to this question must be in the negative and we rely,
    inter alia, upon Shah Babula Khimji v. Jayaben D. Kania & Anr,
    (1981) 4 SCC 8 for our conclusion.
    Second, assuming this appeal to be competent, whether the impugned
    orders passed by the Copyright Board are sustainable in law. In our
    opinion, the answer to this question must be a qualified affirmative.
    Third, whether the helplessness expressed by learned counsel for the
    parties with regard to the administrative support given to the Copyright
    Board (for which, admittedly, the Board is not to be blamed) can be
    ameliorated. We propose to take up this issue altogether separately since
    we find that though there is a great deal that needs to be remedied it is
    beyond our jurisdiction in this appeal.
    RFA No. 440/2009                                           Page 2 of 37
     2.    The Appellant is aggrieved by two orders passed by the Copyright
    Board. They are dated 25th August, 2009 and 26th August, 2009. The
    first grievance is that the Appellant was not allowed by the Copyright
    Board to confront Ms. Aarti Kathariya, witness for the Respondent /
    Complainant in Case No.6/02 with the annual report of the Respondent
    during her cross examination. The second grievance of the Appellant is
    that though the Copyright Board permitted cross-examination of Ms.
    Aarti Kathariya on 24th, 25th and 26th August, 2009 she was inexplicably
    discharged without giving an opportunity to the Appellant to complete
    her cross examination on 26th August, 2009.     The third grievance of the
    Appellant is that it was not given a copy of the deposition of Ms. Aarti
    Kathariya recorded on 24th and 25th August, 2009 and, therefore, her
    cross-examination could not be effectively conducted on 25th and 26th
    August, 2009.
    The Facts
:
3\. The Appellant is a non-profit organization and it administers the
broadcasting rights of music companies who are its members. In this capacity,
the Appellant is entitled to charge and collect licence fees from users of
sound recordings (such as the Respondent). The Respondent is running an FM
radio channel and in the course of its business it RFA No. 440/2009 Page 3 of
37 broadcasts music for which it is liable to pay a licence fee to the
Appellant.
4\. As regards the quantum of licence fee payable, it appears that the parties
could not reach any mutually satisfactory agreement. Accordingly, the
Respondent (and several other similarly placed entities) made a complaint to
the Copyright Board, under Section 31(1)(b) of the Copyright Act, 1957 for a
compulsory licence of the complete repertoire of the Appellant. By way of an
interim arrangement, the Copyright Board passed a ―best judgment‖ order on
19th November, 2002 determining, inter alia, the standard rate royalty of
Rs.1,200/- per needle hour payable to the Appellant by the Respondent during
prime time and reduced rates during other times of the day. The decision of
the Copyright Board is reported as Music Broadcast Pvt. Ltd. v. Phonographic
Performance Ltd., 2003 (26) PTC 70.
5\. The interim decision of the Copyright Board was challenged in the Bombay
High Court which passed an order on 13th April, 2004. The decision of the
Bombay High Court is reported as Phonographic Performance Limited v. Music
Broadcast (P) Limited, 2004 (29) PTC
282\. The effective order passed by the Bombay High Court, which is what we
are concerned with in this appeal, set aside the ―best judgment‖ RFA No.
440/2009 Page 4 of 37 determination and required the radio stations including
the Respondent to produce before the Copyright Board their audited accounts
and other materials to enable it to arrive at a just figure for payment to the
Appellant. The Bombay High Court was informed that the audited accounts of the
complainants would be available and that they would be willing to produce them
before the Copyright Board. Accordingly, the Bombay High Court remitted back
the matter to the Copyright Board for re-determination of the compensation in
terms of the provisions of Section 31 of the Copyright Act and on the basis of
the material produced by both the parties.
6\. Feeling aggrieved by the order of the Copyright Board, the Appellant
approached the Supreme Court and its decision is reported as Entertainment
Network (India) Limited v. Super Cassette Industries Limited, (2008) 13 SCC
30.
7\. The Supreme Court endorsed the view of the Bombay High Court remanding the
matter back to the Copyright Board for evaluating the compensation or licence
fee payable to the Appellant.
8\. After remand, the Copyright Board passed an order dated 28th July, 2009
indicating, inter alia, the progress made (or lack of it) during RFA No.
440/2009 Page 5 of 37 the past year. The order passed by the Copyright Board
makes for some interesting reading and is reproduced below:
> ―Matters after being remanded by the Supreme Court were listed for the first
> time on 29th July, 2008 and continued to be adjourned six times for hearing
> at an interval of every two months on the request of both the parties (30th
> September, 2008, 26th November, 2008, 28th January, 2009, 31st March, 2009
> and 26th May, 2009) for the sake of filing pleadings and paper books,
> affidavit of oral witnesses etc. After one year, the evidence started in the
> forenoon of 28th July, 2009. Two witnesses for the Petitioner, namely,
> Ashish Shah and Ayan Chakraborty have deposed before the Board and have been
> examined & discharged. Shri Ameet Dutta, Counsel for the Respondent in all
> the cases relating to PPL has brought to our notice that certain evidences
> by affidavit were sent to the Registry of the Copyright Board on 27 th July,
> 2009. In this regard attention is drawn to our Order dated 26 th May, 2009
> wherein it has been very specifically provided that list of witnesses,
> evidence by way of affidavit, name of the expert witnesses and their
> affidavit by way of evidence by the respondents need to be filed by 30th
> June, 2009. Since the above said evidence by affidavit has been filed
> belatedly by the Respondent, namely, Phonographic Performance Ltd., the same
> is not allowed and is not being taken on record.‖
9\. Feeling aggrieved by the latter portion of the above order declining to
take on record the evidence by way of an affidavit, the Appellant preferred
appeals in this Court under the provisions of Section 72 of the Act. The
appeals were registered as RFA Nos. 264 to 272/2009.
10\. The appeals came up for consideration before a Division Bench of this
Court on 4th August, 2009 when an order was passed noting that the RFA No.
440/2009 Page 6 of 37 dispute raised with regard to the interpretation of the
order dated 28th July, 2009 is in respect of procedural aspects about leading
evidence by the parties. To resolve the controversy, the Division Bench
directed that all evidence by way of affidavits filed by 28th July, 2009
should be taken on record but no further evidence by way of affidavits or
documents should be entertained. It was further observed that the evidence
should be recorded expeditiously. Learned counsel for the parties was agreed
that no adjournment would be taken on this account.
11\. Pursuant to the order dated 4th August, 2009 cross-examination of the
witnesses continued on 24th, 25th and 26th August, 2009. As mentioned above,
the only witness whose evidence was recorded was Ms. Aarti Kathariya. We were
told that on 24th August, 2009 learned counsel for the Appellant asked for a
copy of her deposition but that was not supplied to him. He has made a
grievance in this regard but that really pertains to the management of the
affairs of the Copyright Board and we shall deal with it separately.
12\. Be that as it may, on 25th August, 2009 recording the evidence of Ms.
Aarti Kathariya continued and during the course of her cross examination
learned counsel for the Appellant wanted to confront her with certain
documents to disprove the assertions made in her affidavit RFA No. 440/2009
Page 7 of 37 by way of examination-in-chief. This was disallowed by the
Copyright Board on the basis of the order passed by the Division Bench of this
Court on 4th August, 2009. It was noted in the order passed on 25 th August,
2009 that the Appellant produced a computer printout of the annual report of
the Respondent and wanted to confront the witness with this document. Two
objections were raised by the Respondent in this regard: first, it was
submitted that the computer printout was not an authentic copy of the annual
report and second, it was not admissible in terms of the directions given by
this Court on 4th August, 2009. The dispute regarding the authenticity of the
document appears to have been resolved later but the Copyright Board did not
permit the witness to be confronted with the document since it was not
―admissible‖ in terms of the directions of this Court passed on 4th August,
2009.
13\. As regards the contents of the order dated 26 th August, 2009 we find
that at about 3.00 pm the Copyright Board noted that Ms. Aarti Kathariya had
been examined throughout the day on 24 th and 25th August, 2009 as well as on
26th August, 2009. The Copyright Board suggested to learned counsel for the
Appellant to conclude her cross- examination but he submitted that he intended
to cross-examine her for one more day. The Copyright Board noted that there
was much repetition in the questions asked and that there was another witness
of RFA No. 440/2009 Page 8 of 37 the Respondent who could be examined on the
financial aspects. In fact the inputs of all the witnesses would contribute
towards understanding the financial viability of the Respondent specifically,
the FM radio industry as a whole and the reasonableness of the royalty to be
settled. It was noted that the cross-examination had covered all the relevant
issues. In view of all this, the cross-examination of Ms. Aarti Kathariya was
closed and she was discharged at about 3.30 pm.
14\. It is under these circumstances that the Appellant has preferred this
appeal against the aforesaid two orders dated 25 th and 26th August, 2009\.
Preliminary Objection:
15\. Learned counsel for the Respondent raised a preliminary objection
regarding the maintainability of the appeal. It was submitted that an appeal
against an interlocutory order on a procedural matter does not lie and,
therefore, this appeal should be rejected at the threshold. Reliance was
placed on the word ―order‖ occurring in Section 72(2) of the Copyright Act. It
was submitted that an appeal would lie only against an order that vitally
affects the interests of a party. The submission was that the Copyright Board
has merely declined to take on record a document, which is a procedural
matter, and that refusal does not vitally affect the RFA No. 440/2009 Page 9
of 37 interests of the Appellant. Section 72(2) of the Copyright Act reads as
follows:
> 72\. Appeals against orders of Registrar of Copyrights and Copyright
> Board.-- (1) xxx xxx xxx.
> (2) Any person aggrieved by any final decision or order of the Copyright
> Board, not being a decision or order made in an appeal under sub-section
> (1), may, within three months from the date of such decision or order,
> appeal to the High Court within whose jurisdiction the appellant actually
> and voluntarily resides or carries on business or personally works for gain:
> Provided that no such appeal shall lie against a decision of the Copyright
> Board under Section 6.
(3) xxx xxx xxx.
16\. The issue of the maintainability of an appeal against an interlocutory
order is not so vexed as it appears even though it has come up for
consideration on several occasions.
17\. The first decision cited before us to resolve the controversy was Central
Bank of India Ltd. v. Gokal Chand, (1967) 1 SCR 310. That decision concerned
itself with the meaning of ―order‖ occurring in Section 38(1) of the Delhi
Rent Control Act, 1958 which reads as follows:
> ―An appeal shall lie from every order of the Controller made under this Act
> to the Rent Control Tribunal (hereinafter referred to as the Tribunal)
> consisting of one person only to be appointed by the Central Government by
> notification in the Official Gazette.‖ RFA No. 440/2009 Page 10 of 37 While
> interpreting this provision, the Supreme Court held:
> ―The object of Section 38(1) is to give a right of appeal to a party
> aggrieved by some order which affects his right or liability. In the context
> of Section 38(1), the words ―every order of the Controller made under this
> Act‖, though very wide, do not include interlocutory orders, which are
> merely procedural and do not affect the rights or liabilities of the
> parties. In a pending proceeding, the Controller may pass many interlocutory
> orders under Sections 36 and 37, such as orders regarding the summoning of
> witnesses, discovery, production and inspection of documents, issue of a
> commission for examination of witnesses, inspection of premises, fixing a
> date of hearing and the admissibility of a document or the relevancy of a
> question. All these interlocutory orders are steps taken towards the final
> adjudication and for assisting the parties in the prosecution of their case
> in the pending proceeding; they regulate the procedure only and do not
> affect any right or liability of the parties. The legislature could not have
> intended that the parties would be harassed with endless expenses and delay
> by appeals from such procedural orders. It is open to any party to set forth
> the error, defect or irregularity, if any, in such an order as a ground of
> objection in his appeal from the final order in the main proceeding. Subject
> to the aforesaid limitation, an appeal lies to the Rent Control Tribunal
> from every order passed by the Controller under the Act. Even an
> interlocutory order passed under Section 37(2) is an order passed under the
> Act and is subject to appeal under Section 38(1) provided it affects some
> right or liability of any party.‖ (emphasis supplied)
> 18\. Parmeshwari Devi v. State, (1977) 1 SCC 169 was a case under the
> provisions of the Criminal Procedure Code. The Supreme Court relied on Mohan
> Lal Magan Lal Thacker v. State of Gujarat, AIR 1968 SC 733 wherein the
> controversy centered round the meaning of Article 134(l)(c) of the
> Constitution. The Supreme Court held that no single test RFA No. 440/2009
> Page 11 of 37 can be applied to determine whether an order is final or
> interlocutory. It was then held:
> ―An interlocutory order, though not conclusive of the main dispute may be
> conclusive as to the subordinate matter with which it deals. It may thus be
> conclusive with reference to the stage at which it is made, and it may also
> be conclusive as to a person, who is not a party to the enquiry or trial,
> against whom it is directed.‖ (emphasis supplied)
> 19\. In V.C. Shukla v. State through CBI, 1980 Supp SCC 9 the question that
> arose was whether an appeal would be maintainable against an order framing a
> charge. The Supreme Court summed up the law relating to interlocutory orders
> in relation to the Criminal Procedure Code in paragraphs 24 and 34 of the
> Report. In so far as they are relevant to the case in hand, they are
> reproduced below:
> ―To sum up, the essential attribute of an interlocutory order is that it
> merely decides some point or matter essential to the progress of the suit or
> collateral to the issues sought but not a final decision or judgment on the
> matter in issue. An intermediate order is one which is made between the
> commencement of an action and the entry of the judgment.‖ ―Thus, on a
> consideration of the authorities, mentioned above, the following
> propositions emerge:
> (1) that an order which does not determine the right of the parties but only
> one aspect of the suit or the trial is an interlocutory order;
> (2) that the concept of interlocutory order has to be explained in
> contradistinction to a final order. In other words, if an order is not a
> final order, it would be an interlocutory order;
RFA No. 440/2009 Page 12 of 37
> (3) that one of the tests generally accepted by the English courts and the
> Federal Court is to see if the order is decided in one way, it may terminate
> the proceedings but if decided in another way, then the proceedings would
> continue, because, in our opinion, the term ‗interlocutory order' in the
> Criminal Procedure Code has been used in a much wider sense so as to include
> even intermediate or quasi-final orders;
          (4) xxx      xxx   xxx
          (5) xxx      xxx   xxx‖ (emphasis supplied)
> 20\. The leading case on the subject (though it pertains to the Letters
> Patent) still remains Shah Babulal Khimji v. Jayaben D. Kania, (1981) 4 SCC
> 8. In paragraph 113 of the Report, the Supreme Court makes a distinction
> between a final judgment, a preliminary judgment and an intermediary or
> interlocutory judgment. While dealing with an intermediary or interlocutory
> judgment, the Supreme Court held:
> ―Most of the interlocutory orders which contain the quality of finality are
> clearly specified in clauses (a) to (w) of Order 43 Rule 1[of the Code of
> Civil Procedure] and have already been held by us to be judgments within the
> meaning of the letters patent and, therefore, appealable. There may also be
> interlocutory orders which are not covered by Order 43 Rule 1 but which also
> possess the characteristics and trappings of finality in that, the orders
> may adversely affect a valuable right of the party or decide an important
> aspect of the trial in an ancillary proceeding. Before such an order can be
> a judgment the adverse effect on the party concerned must be direct and
> immediate rather than indirect or remote.‖ (emphasis supplied) Similarly,
> paragraphs 114 and 115 of the Report are important and they read as follows:
RFA No. 440/2009 Page 13 of 37
> ―114. In the course of the trial, the trial Judge may pass a number of
> orders whereby some of the various steps to be taken by the parties in
> prosecution of the suit may be of a routine nature while other orders may
> cause some inconvenience to one party or the other, e.g., an order refusing
> an adjournment, an order refusing to summon an additional witness or
> documents, an order refusing to condone delay in filing documents, after the
> first date of hearing an order of costs to one of the parties for its
> default or an order exercising discretion in respect of a procedural matter
> against one party or the other. Such orders are purely interlocutory and
> cannot constitute judgments because it will always be open to the aggrieved
> party to make a grievance of the order passed against the party concerned in
> the appeal against the final judgment passed by the trial Judge.
> ―115. Thus, in other words every interlocutory order cannot be regarded as a
> judgment but only those orders would be judgments which decide matters of
> moment or affect vital and valuable rights of the parties and which work
> serious injustice to the party concerned. Similarly, orders passed by the
> trial Judge deciding question of admissibility or relevancy of a document
> also cannot be treated as judgments because the grievance on this score can
> be corrected by the appellate court in appeal against the final judgment.‖
> (emphasis supplied)
> 21\. The principles that may be culled out from the various judgments cited
> before us clearly suggest that for an interlocutory order to be appealable:
> 1\. It must not be procedural in nature.
> 2\. It must determine not only the rights or liabilities of the parties but
> their valuable rights or liabilities. In other words, it must decide a
> matter of moment.
> 3\. It must have the characteristics or trappings of conclusiveness or
> finality or must result (in a sense) in the termination of proceedings.
> 4\. An interlocutory or intermediary order is to be contradistinguished with
> a final order.
RFA No. 440/2009 Page 14 of 37
> 5\. The effect of an appealable interlocutory order must be direct and
> immediate and not indirect and remote.
> Examples of interlocutory orders have been given in Gokal Chand and Shah
> Babulal Khimji and are not repeated here.
22\. Looked at in the light of the above principles, it is difficult to accept
the view canvassed by learned counsel for the Appellant that this appeal would
be maintainable. Clearly, the attempt to introduce the annual report on 25th
August, 2009 is a off-shoot of the failure of the Appellant to take advantage
of a procedural matter. The Appellant could very well have filed the document
as per the requirement of the Copyright Board - sufficient time was given to
the parties to place all their documents on the record. Since the Appellant
failed to do so, it cannot be allowed to collaterally introduce the annual
report by confronting a witness in cross-examination. Having failed to take
advantage of the procedure laid down, the Appellant cannot be permitted to
argue that a substantive and valuable right has been violated. The matter
still remains in the domain of procedure and no amount of argument to the
contrary can change the situation.
23\. We also find that the order passed by the Copyright Board declining
permission to the Appellant to confront the witness with the RFA No. 440/2009
Page 15 of 37 annual report is not a decision on a matter of moment. No rights
or liabilities of anybody have been decided in this regard. All that has
happened is that the Appellant has not been allowed to place on record a
document that it considers to be relevant and important. Even if the Copyright
Board erred in its decision, it is not as if the Appellant is left without any
remedy. On the facts of this case, as already noted by the Tribunal in its
order dated 26th August, 2009 there is at least one more witness who can also
deal with the financial aspects of the Respondent and who can appropriately be
cross-examined by learned counsel for the Appellant. Therefore, discharging
Ms. Aarti Kathariya from further cross-examination is of little consequence.
That apart, additional evidence can be introduced, if permissible and
necessary at a later stage and even at the appellate stage, so that no
injustice is done to the parties. Clearly, therefore, it is not as if the
matter would come to an end insofar as the Appellant is concerned if it is not
allowed to bring the annual report on record.
24\. In our opinion, there is also no finality attached to the decision
rendered by the Copyright Board declining permission to the Appellant to
collaterally place the annual report on record or discharging Ms. Aarti
Kathariya. There is no conclusiveness attached to the decision of the
Copyright Board nor would the proceedings terminate in the sense of a RFA No.
440/2009 Page 16 of 37 final decision being more or less immediately
inevitable. The proceedings can very well go on and, at worst, there may be
some prejudice caused to the Appellant due to the non-placement of the annual
report on record but then that situation is of the own making of the
Appellant.
25\. The sum and substance of the above discussion clearly brings out that not
only are both the orders dated 25 th and 26th August, 2009 interlocutory in
nature as contradistinguished from a final order but that the impact of these
two orders on the case of the Appellant before the Copyright Board is neither
direct nor immediate. To our mind, there can be no doubt that not only are the
two orders procedural in nature, but they are also interlocutory and not
appealable in terms of the law laid down by the Supreme Court.
26\. We, therefore, uphold the preliminary objection taken by the Respondent
and conclude that an appeal against the impugned interlocutory orders is not
maintainable.
27\. Nevertheless, since we heard learned counsel for the parties in detail on
the merits of the controversy, we proceed to discuss the substantive matter
raised before us.
RFA No. 440/2009 Page 17 of 37 On merits:
28\. The first question that we are required to answer is whether the
Copyright Board was right in refusing to permit the Appellant to confront Ms.
Aarti Kathariya with the annual report to disprove the case made out in her
affidavit by way of examination-in-chief.
29\. Before we answer this question, it is necessary to appreciate the
underlying principles of Section 31(1)(b) of the Copyright Act, which reads as
follows: -
> ―31. Compulsory licence in works withheld from public.- (1) If at any time
> during the term of copyright in any Indian work which has been published or
> performed in public, a complaint is made to the Copyright Board that the
> owner of copyright in the work-
> (a) ........
> (b) has refused to allow communication to the public by broadcast of such
> work or in the case of a sound recording the work recorded in such sound
> recording, on terms which the complainant considers reasonable, the
> Copyright Board, after giving to the owner of the copyright in the work a
> reasonable opportunity of being heard and after holding such inquiry as it
> may deem necessary, may, if it is satisfied that the grounds for such
> refusal are not reasonable, direct the Registrar of Copyrights to grant to
> the complainant a licence to re-publish the work, perform the work in public
> or communicate the work to the public by broadcast, as the case may be,
> subject to payment to the owner of the copyright of such compensation and
> subject to such other terms and conditions as the Copyright Board may
> determine; and thereupon the Registrar of Copyrights shall grant the licence
> to the complainant in accordance with the directions of Copyright Board, on
> payment of such fee as may be prescribed.‖ (emphasis supplied) RFA No.
> 440/2009 Page 18 of 37
30\. In this regard, paragraph 2(2) of the Statement of Objects and Reasons
for the Copyright Act gives us an indication of what Parliament intended when
this provision was enacted. This paragraph reads as follows: -
> ―2. Though the draft Bill follows generally, in a re-arranged form the main
> principles of the existing law, it has introduced several new features which
> are briefly indicated below:
> (1) xxx xxx xxx (2) Provision is made for setting up a Copyright Board which
> will determine the reasonableness of the rates of fees, charges or royalties
> claimed by performing rights societies, consider applications for general
> licences for public performances of works and will assess compensation
> payable under the Bill in certain circumstances. An appeal will lie to the
> High Court against the decisions of the Copyright Board.‖
31\. The jurisdiction of the Copyright Board can be invoked under Section
31(1)(b) of the Copyright Act by a complainant who considers that the owner of
a copyright has offered unreasonable terms for the broadcast of a sound
recording. When that happens, the Copyright Board is required to give the
copyright owner a reasonable opportunity of being heard before directing the
complainant to pay compensation to him (and determining other terms and
conditions) for the broadcast. As a part of the ―reasonable opportunity of
being heard‖ the Copyright Board may hold such inquiry as it deems necessary.
RFA No. 440/2009 Page 19 of 37
32\. The question is: what is the nature of inquiry contemplated? It appears
to us that the inquiry postulated is quasi-judicial and quasi- adversarial in
nature. We say this because the Copyright Board is not a Court nor is it a
Tribunal. Two facts are significant in this regard and they are that the
Copyright Board does not have the powers of a civil court to summon and
enforce attendance of a witness or to require the discovery or production of a
document, nor does it pass a decree (it only passes a final decision).
Therefore, when the Copyright Board conducts an inquiry it does so with very
limited powers.
33\. What does such an inquiry entail? Frankly, we were unable to find any
precedent in this regard. But, on first principles, there can be no doubt that
the Copyright Board may devise its own procedure and while doing so, it is
expected to adhere to the principles of natural justice. In Union of India v.
Delhi High Court Bar Assn., (2002) 4 SCC 275, the Supreme Court was concerned
with tribunals set up under the Recovery of Debts Due to Banks and Financial
Institutions Act, 1993. It was noted in paragraph 17 of the Report:
> ―The very purpose of establishing the Tribunal being to expedite the
> disposal of the applications filed by the banks and financial institutions
> for realisation of money, the Tribunal and the Appellate Tribunal are
> required to deal with the applications in an expeditious manner. It is
> precisely for this reason that Section 22(1) stipulates that the Tribunal
> and the Appellate Tribunal shall not be bound by the procedure laid down by
> the Code of Civil Procedure. Therefore even though the Tribunal can regulate
> its RFA No. 440/2009 Page 20 of 37 own procedure, the Act requires that any
> procedure laid down by it must be guided by the principles of natural
> justice while, at the same time, it should not regard itself as being bound
> by the provisions of the Code of Civil Procedure.‖ (emphasis supplied)
34\. While dealing with the issue of examining a witness, the Supreme Court
observed in paragraph 22 of the Report:
> ―The reason for establishing Banking Tribunals being to expedite the
> disposal of the claims by the banks, Parliament thought it proper only to
> require the principles of natural justice to be the guiding factor for the
> Tribunals in deciding the applications, as is evident from Section 22 of the
> Act. While the Tribunal has, no doubt, been given the power of summoning and
> enforcing the attendance of any witness and examining him on oath, but the
> Act does not contain any provision which makes it mandatory for the witness
> to be examined, if such a witness could be produced.‖ (emphasis supplied)
> Consequently, it is clear that the examination of a witness is not an
> essential requirement of adjudication by a Tribunal.
35\. It was, thereafter, held in paragraph 23 of the Report as follows:
> ―In other words, the Tribunal has the power to require any particular fact
> to be proved by affidavit, or it may order that the affidavit of any witness
> may be read at the hearing. While passing such an order, it must record
> sufficient reasons for the same.... [I]t would appear to us that once the
> parties have filed affidavits in support of their respective cases, it is
> only thereafter that the desire for a witness to be cross-examined can
> legitimately arise. It is at that time, if it appears to the Tribunal, that
> such a witness can be produced and it is necessary to do so and there is no
> desire to prolong the case that it shall require the witness to be present
> for cross-examination and in the event of his not RFA No. 440/2009 Page 21
> of 37 appearing, then the affidavit shall not be taken into evidence.
When the High Courts and the Supreme Court in exercise of their jurisdiction
under Article 226 and Article 32 can decide questions of fact as well as law
merely on the basis of documents and affidavits filed before them ordinarily,
there should be no reason as to why a Tribunal, likewise, should not be able
to decide the case merely on the basis of documents and affidavits before it.‖
(emphasis supplied) Therefore, if a witness is summoned, then a party would be
entitled to cross-examine him and if the witness does not appear, then his
affidavit by way of evidence may be disregarded. The necessity of summoning a
witness is best left to the discretion of the Tribunal.
36\. Subsequently, in Nahar Industrial Enterprises Ltd. v. Hong Kong and
Shanghai Banking Corpn., (2009) 8 SCC 646 the Supreme Court clearly expressed
the view that in a Tribunal, the examination and cross examination of a
witness should be an exception and not the rule. This is what is said in
paragraph 86 of the Report:
> ―The Debts Recovery Tribunal cannot pass a decree. It can issue only
> recovery certificates. [See Sections 19(2) and 19(22) of the Act.] The power
> of the Tribunal to grant interim order is attenuated with circumspection.
> [See Dataware Design Labs (P) Ltd. v. SBI, 30 Comp Cas at p.184.] Concededly
> in the proceeding before the Debts Recovery Tribunal detailed examination,
> cross- examinations, provisions of the Evidence Act as also application of
> other provisions of the Code of Civil Procedure like interrogatories,
> discoveries of documents and admission need not be gone into. Taking
> recourse to such proceedings would be an exception. Entire focus of the
> proceedings before the Debts Recovery Tribunal centres round the legally
> recoverable dues of the bank.‖ (emphasis supplied) RFA No. 440/2009 Page 22
> of 37
37\. Applying these principles, it is quite clear that an inquiry by the
Copyright Board entails a decision, rather than an adversarial adjudication.
In arriving at its decision the Copyright Board need not necessarily examine a
witness. It may take a decision on affidavits, depending upon the requirements
of the matter in hand. Only if it is necessary to cross examine the deponent
of an affidavit (as an exception rather than as a rule) the Copyright Board
may require the attendance of such a person and then permit cross examination.
If the deponent does not enter the witness box, then his affidavit may be
disregarded. It is also quite clear that an inquiry by the Copyright Board is
not a trial resulting in a decree, nor does the Board have the trappings of a
Court or even a Tribunal. The proceedings before the Copyright Board,
therefore, cannot be converted into a trial or transformed into a formal
adjudicatory process through some indirect process.
38\. It is in this background that it is necessary to examine the contention
of learned counsel for the Appellant that he should have been allowed to
confront Ms. Aarti Kathariya with the annual report of the Respondent. Learned
counsel first relied upon Niranjan Kumar v. Poonam Chawla, 135 (2006) DLT 39.
That case arose out of a suit for possession, recovery of arrears of rent and
mesne profits in which the defence of the petitioner therein was struck off. A
learned Single Judge RFA No. 440/2009 Page 23 of 37 of this Court took the
view, relying upon Modula India v. Kamakshya Singh Deo, (1988) 4 SCC 619 that
in a case where the defence is struck off, there is nothing which precludes
the parties from confronting a witness of the other party in cross examination
with documents that are not on record. It is difficult to see the relevance of
this case.
39\. Reliance was also placed on Subhash Chander v. Shri Bhagwan Yadav,
MANU/DE/3343/2009. In this decision, it was held by a learned Single Judge of
this Court:
> ―The legislative intent behind Order 7 Rule 14(4) and Order 8 Rule 1A(4) and
> Order 13 Rule 1(3) [of the Code of Civil Procedure] appears to be to permit
> an element of surprise, which is very important in the cross examination of
> witnesses. A litigant may well be of the opinion that if the document on the
> basis whereof he seeks to demolish the case of the adversary is filed on the
> court record along with pleadings or before framing of issues, with
> resultant knowledge to the adversary, the adversary may come prepared with
> his replies thereto. On the contrary, if permitted to show/produce the
> document owing to element of surprise, the adversary or witness, may blurt
> out the truth.‖
40\. Surinder Kumar Bajaj v. Sheela Rani Pasricha, MANU/DE/3264/2009 expresses
the same view and according to learned counsel, this would include an ―element
of surprise‖ that might make the witness ―blurt out the truth‖. In other
words, the witness should not be forewarned or made aware of the material
sought to be introduced in the cross examination.
RFA No. 440/2009 Page 24 of 37
41\. Broadly speaking, what the learned counsel says may be correct in respect
of a trial. But in this case, the Copyright Board is conducting an inquiry
only for determining the amount of compensation payable. In such a situation,
there is really no question of an ―element of surprise‖ postulated and both
the parties are expected to place before the Copyright Board all the available
material so that a fair determination of the amount of compensation payable,
is made. If the entire controversy is viewed in this light, which in our
opinion it should be, then it is clear that both the parties ought to have
placed the entire relevant material on record to enable the Copyright Board to
arrive at a just compensation. For this purpose, the Copyright Board, while
devising its procedure in conformity with the principles of natural justice,
gave exactly one year's time to the parties from 29th July, 2008 till 28th
July, 2009 to place their material on record and as many as six adjournments
were granted for this purpose at an interval of every two months. Surely, this
was adequate time for the parties to place on record whatever material they
desired.
42\. Admittedly, Ms. Aarti Kathariya filed her affidavit by way of evidence
sometime in March, 2009. This being so, the Appellant was fully aware of the
contents of her affidavit when she was first produced in the witness box on
24th August, 2009. It was also clear what the RFA No. 440/2009 Page 25 of 37
witness was going to say. Indeed, her affidavit was already on record and the
Appellant knew what she in fact had said. Therefore, to disprove her
assertions in an inquiry, what was required for the Appellant was to place on
record all necessary documents to show that she was not necessarily telling
the truth or the complete truth. The annual report of the Respondent was
admittedly a published document and was available on the internet and the
Appellant could surely have placed this on record by filing an affidavit. By
attempting to confront the witness during her cross examination with this
document by way of an ―element of surprise‖ to make her ―blurt out the truth‖
is really an attempt to convert an inquiry into a trial which, in our opinion,
is not postulated by the Act.
43\. To conclude the discussion on this issue, we may refer to two decisions
cited by learned counsel for the Respondent. In Liberty Footwear Co. v. Force
Footwear Co., MANU/DE/2574/2009 a learned Single Judge of this Court took the
view that in procedural matters, quasi judicial tribunals are entitled to
adopt a just and fair procedure. It was observed that every procedure is
acceptable and permissible until it is shown to be prohibited by law. This is
what was said:
> ―It is well settled that quasi judicial tribunals on procedural matters are
> entitled to adopt a procedure which they feel is just and fair. Unless there
> is a specific or implied bar or prohibition by the statute, a quasi judicial
> tribunal has flexibility and can follow procedure, which is fair and
> compliant with the principles of RFA No. 440/2009 Page 26 of 37 natural
> justice. Every procedure is acceptable and permissible until it is shown to
> be prohibited by law. See, Hansraj Harjiwan Bhate v. Emperor, AIR 1940 Nag.
> 390 following Narasingh Das v. Mangal Dubey ILR 1882 All 583. Further quasi
> judicial tribunals have ancillary and incidental powers to ensure that there
> is effective adjudication and decision. In Suresh Jindal v. BSES Rajdhani
> Power Ltd. (2008) 1 SCC 341, the Supreme Court has observed that a statutory
> authority while exercising statutory powers may do all things, which are
> necessary for giving effect thereto.‖
44\. In Union of India v. T.R. Varma, AIR 1957 SC 882 the Supreme Court held
in paragraph 14 of the Report as follows:
> ―Now, it is no doubt true that the evidence of the respondent and his
> witnesses was not taken in the mode prescribed in the Evidence Act; but that
> Act has no application to enquiries conducted by tribunals, even though they
> may be judicial in character. The law requires that such tribunals should
> observe rules of natural justice in the conduct of the enquiry, and if they
> do so, their decision is not liable to be impeached on the ground that the
> procedure followed was not in accordance with that, which obtains in a Court
> of Law. Stating it broadly and without intending it to be exhaustive, it may
> be observed that rules of natural justice require that a party should have
> the opportunity of adducing all relevant evidence on which he relies, that
> the evidence of the opponent should be taken in his presence, and that he
> should be given the opportunity of cross- examining the witnesses examined
> by that party, and that no materials should be relied on against him without
> his being given an opportunity of explaining them. If these rules are
> satisfied, the enquiry is not open to attack on the ground that the
> procedure laid down in the Evidence Act for taking evidence was not strictly
> followed. Vide the recent decision of this Court in New Prakash Transport
> Co. v. New Suwarna Transport Co. [1957] S.C.R. 98, where this question is
> discussed.‖ (emphasis supplied) RFA No. 440/2009 Page 27 of 37
45\. All the decisions mentioned above have been cited in the context of the
procedure to be followed by Tribunals. We have, however, made a clear
distinction between the procedure that ought to be followed by an adjudicating
Tribunal and an inquiring Copyright Board. Based on this distinction, we are
of the opinion that the Copyright Board did not commit any procedural error in
declining to permit the Appellant from trying to surprise Ms. Aarti Kathariya.
The extent of powers and the jurisdiction of the Copyright Board, in a case
such as the present, is rather limited and it would not be appropriate to
expand it to such an extent that an inquiry becomes a prolonged trial.
46\. Having said this, we would like to add that any Court, Tribunal or
authority dealing with a matter in its original jurisdiction is always
confronted with the difficult task of when to include or exclude ―evidence‖. A
case like the one that we are dealing with suggests that it is advisable to
err on the side of inclusiveness rather than to be exclusionary. The reason,
quite clearly is that erroneously included ―evidence‖ can be excluded at any
time while erroneously excluded ―evidence‖ (if it has to be included at a
later stage) causes inconvenience and delay. It is true that at the appellate
stage the Code of Civil Procedure and the Criminal Procedure Code do provide
for the rectification of such errors by permitting additional evidence to be
RFA No. 440/2009 Page 28 of 37 adduced (Order XL Rule 27 and Section 391
respectively) but that would be, in a sense, a poor substitute for evidence
being available for decision-making at the original stage.
47\. Indeed, this aspect was adverted to by the Supreme Court a few years ago
in State v. Navjot Sandhu, (2003) 6 SCC 641 in which Shantilal Panchal v.
State of Gujarat (2001) 3 SCC 1 was extensively quoted. The following passages
from paragraph 13 and 14 of Shantilal Panchal are worth repeating:
> ―Suppose the trial court, in a case, upholds a particular objection and
> excludes the material from being admitted in evidence and then proceeds with
> the trial and disposes of the case finally. If the appellate or the
> revisional court, when the same question is recanvassed, could take a
> different view on the admissibility of that material in such cases the
> appellate court would be deprived of the benefit of that evidence, because
> that was not put on record by the trial court. In such a situation the
> higher court may have to send the case back to the trial court for recording
> that evidence and then to dispose of the case afresh. Why should the trial
> prolong like that unnecessarily on account of practices created by
> ourselves. Such practices, when realised through the course of long period
> to be hindrances which impede steady and swift progress of trial
> proceedings, must be recast or remoulded to give way for better substitutes
> which would help acceleration of trial proceedings.
> 14\. When so recast, the practice which can be a better substitute is this:
> Whenever an objection is raised during evidence-taking stage regarding the
> admissibility of any material or item of oral evidence the trial court can
> make a note of such objection and mark the objected document tentatively as
> an exhibit in the case (or record the objected part of the oral evidence)
> subject to such objections to be decided at the last stage in the final
> judgment. If RFA No. 440/2009 Page 29 of 37 the court finds at the final
> stage that the objection so raised is sustainable the Judge or Magistrate
> can keep such evidence excluded from consideration. In our view there is no
> illegality in adopting such a course. (However, we make it clear that if the
> objection relates to deficiency of stamp duty of a document the court has to
> decide the objection before proceeding further. For all other objections the
> procedure suggested above can be followed.)‖
48\. If the view expressed by the Supreme Court is placed beside the case that
we are dealing with, it would be clear that if the annual report sought to be
introduced in the cross examination of Ms. Aarti Kathariya were to be taken on
record, even erroneously, then it could be excluded from consideration by the
Copyright Board at the time of passing final orders, or even at the appellate
stage. But if at some later stage, if the annual report is found to have been
erroneously excluded, it will cause immense inconvenience to the parties in
bringing it on record. However, we need say nothing more on this subject,
except that on the facts of this case, the Copyright Board did not err in
declining permission to the Appellant to bring the annual report on record by
confronting Ms. Aarti Kathariya. Whether the annual report can be brought on
the record at the appellate stage is not an issue before us and so we do not
pronounce upon it.
49\. The second question that we are required to consider on merits is whether
the Copyright Board was correct in holding that the annual RFA No. 440/2009
Page 30 of 37 report and other documents were ―inadmissible‖ in view of the
order dated 4th August, 2009 passed by a Division Bench of this Court in the
earlier appeals [RFA Nos. 264 to 272 of 2009] filed by the Appellant. The
order dated 4th August, 2009 reads as follows:
> ―We have heard counsel for the parties. With their consent, we have taken up
> these appeals for disposal straight-away.
> The dispute is with regard to the impugned order passed by Board in respect
> of procedural aspects qua leading of evidence by the parties. We are of the
> view that the entire controversy can be sorted out if we issue appropriate
> directions. The directions are: -
> 1\. The evidence-affidavits of parties, which have already been filed or
> served upon opposing counsel by the 28.07.2009 shall be taken on record. All
> such witnesses whose affidavits have been either filed or served upon
> opposing counsel prior to 28.07.2009 may be cross examined by the parties.
> No further evidence affidavits or documents shall be entertained.
> 2 & 3\. xxx xxx xxx We make it clear that we have not examined the
> allegations against the Board nor have we expressed any view on the question
> of maintainability.
> The appeals are disposed of, accordingly, with the above directions.‖
50\. We are not called upon to interpret the order dated 4 th August, 2009\.
All that we need say is that the Division Bench felt concerned by the time
taken by the Copyright Board to complete the procedural matters. It is to cap
this wavering that had been going on for more than a year that prompted the
Division Bench to issue the direction that it did. It RFA No. 440/2009 Page 31
of 37 was obviously felt that more than sufficient time had been granted to
the parties to put all relevant material on record and that the procedural
issues did not brook any further delay. It was for this reason that a
direction was given to complete the recording of evidence expeditiously. In
our opinion, the Copyright Board misunderstood or misinterpreted the order
dated 4th August, 2009.
51\. The issue before the Division Bench or before the Copyright Board was not
regarding the admissibility in evidence or otherwise of the annual report and
other documents. The controversy before the Division Bench was with regard to
―procedural aspects qua leading of evidence‖. This was resolved by the
Division Bench and the Copyright Board was only expected to follow the
directions given by the Division Bench. The issue of admissibility of the
documents was a matter entirely independent of the order passed by the
Division Bench. The Copyright Board, therefore, could not have relied on that
order (as it did on 25th August, 2009) to declare whether any document was
admissible in evidence or not. To this extent, we are of the opinion that the
Copyright Board erred in its conclusion. However, we do not propose to
pronounce on this issue but leave it to the parties to take such steps at the
appropriate stage, as may be advised, to make their submissions RFA No.
440/2009 Page 32 of 37 regarding the ―admissibility‖ of those documents
adverted to in the order of the Copyright Board dated 25th August, 2009.
52\. Learned counsel sought to tie up his submission in this regard with the
order passed by the Bombay High Court to the following effect:
> ―We also find considerable force in the submission made on behalf of the
> complainants that what is to be determined by the Copyright Board is
> compensation payable to the PPL [the Appellant before us] and therefore the
> PPL was also under an obligation to produce entire material on its behalf to
> justify the rates at which it is claiming the compensation. .... .... The
> PPL will also have to show how much loss it has suffered because of fall in
> sale of cassettes. Similarly, the FM stations [like the Respondent before
> us] will also have to produce before the Copyright Board their audited
> accounts and other materials so that the Copyright Board can arrive at a
> just figure. We have been informed that now the audited accounts of the
> complainants will be available and that they are willing to produce them
> before the Copyright Board.‖ The submission of learned counsel was that
> since the Respondent did not produce the audited accounts on record, the
> Appellant had no option but to introduce material in this regard through the
> cross examination of Ms. Aarti Kathariya. There are two clear answers to
> this submission. Firstly, the order of the Bombay High Court was available
> with the parties and if one of them chose not to abide by the terms of that
> order, and chose not to produce relevant material before the Copyright
> Board, then it did so at its own peril. Secondly, in a given situation, the
> Copyright Board is RFA No. 440/2009 Page 33 of 37 empowered to draw an
> adverse inference against either party if it withholds relevant material.
> Either way, the interests of both parties are safeguarded.
53\. One grievance voiced by learned counsel for the Appellant was that the
cross-examination of Ms. Aarti Kathariya was suddenly closed on 26th August,
2009 by the Copyright Board. A perusal of the order passed on that date shows
that the witness was examined for two and a half days on financial aspects
concerning the Respondent. By all standards, the cross-examination was rather
lengthy. The Copyright Board observed that there was even some repetition in
the questions asked. Of course, learned counsel for the Appellant says that
the repetition was occasioned by the fact that the deposition of the witness
recorded on 24th and 25th August, 2009 was not available but even discounting
that, the cross-examination of Ms. Aarti Kathariya was quite prolonged. The
Copyright Board felt, in its discretion, that the cross- examination had gone
on for too long and that any further information on the financial aspects of
the Respondent could also be obtained by cross-examining other witnesses. We
do not think the exercise of discretion by the Copyright Board is perverse in
any manner. On the contrary, it was exercised for curtailing what was
perceived to be unnecessary cross-examination of the witness and in the
interest of RFA No. 440/2009 Page 34 of 37 expeditious termination of the
enquiry. In our opinion, these are relevant and weighty considerations.
54\. We may note that the grievance expressed by learned counsel for the
Appellant appears to us to be occasioned more by the summary manner in which
the cross-examination was terminated rather than the fact of its termination
but that is hardly a reason to set aside the order dated 26th August, 2009
passed by the Copyright Board. Administrative issues:
55\. The final submission of learned counsel for the Appellant is that he was
prejudiced in conducting the cross examination of Ms. Aarti Kathariya since he
was not supplied, even on demand, a copy of her cross examination conducted on
24th and 25th August, 2009. To us, this appears to be an issue concerning the
administrative support available to the Copyright Board. It is not the
contention of learned counsel that the Copyright Board deliberately or for
some inexplicable reason did not supply the deposition of the witness. It
appears that adequate secretarial assistance and technical facilities are not
available with the Copyright Board and it is for this reason that it was
unable to provide the deposition on a daily basis, as asked for. It is
possible that due to this shortcoming, learned counsel may have been
handicapped to some RFA No. 440/2009 Page 35 of 37 extent, but this cannot be
adequate ground to set aside the impugned orders. It seems to us that learned
counsel would have faced the same problem when the witnesses who had earlier
entered the witness box were examined. No issue was made of this at that time
or even before us. The ―hindrance‖ caused to learned counsel was not of the
making of anybody in particular, but due to a generally poor quality of
facilities made available with the Copyright Board. That apart, no specific
grievance was made by learned counsel in this regard - the grievance was made
in a general vein. For the present, therefore, we leave it at that.
Conclusion:
56\. We uphold the preliminary objection of learned counsel for the Respondent
that this appeal is not maintainable.
On the merits of the case, we hold that the Copyright Board did not err in
declining to permit the Appellant from introducing the annual report of the
Respondent at the stage of the cross-examination of Ms. Aarti Kathariya.
However, we have not expressed any opinion whether this document can be
introduced on the record of the case at the appellate stage because that issue
was not before us.
RFA No. 440/2009 Page 36 of 37 We hold that the Copyright Board erred in its
order passed on 25 th August, 2009 in relying on the order dated 4 th August,
2009 passed by a Division Bench of this Court for coming to the conclusion
that the annual report of the Respondent and other documents were
―inadmissible‖ in evidence. The admissibility or otherwise of those documents
was not before the Division Bench at all. To this limited extent we set aside
the order of the Copyright Board dated 25 th August, 2009 leaving this issue
to be decided at some appropriate stage, as may be advised.
Since the order of the Division Bench suggests its anxiety to have the
complaint before the Copyright Board expeditiously disposed of, we would
request the Copyright Board to try and quickly dispose it off, keeping in mind
at all times the procedural practice suggested by the Supreme Court in Navjot
Sandhu and the law laid down by us.
57\. The appeal is partly dismissed.
                                             (MADAN B. LOKUR)
                                             ACTING CHIEF JUSTICE
    April 07, 2010                           (MUKTA GUPTA)
    mv/ncg                                   JUDGE
    RFA No. 440/2009                                        Page 37 of 37
was not before us.
RFA No. 440/2009 Page 36 of 37 We hold that the Copyright Board erred in its
order passed on 25 th August, 2009 in relying on the order dated 4 th August,
2009 passed by a Division Bench of this Court for coming to the conclusion
that the annual report of the Respondent and other documents were
―inadmissible‖ in evidence. The admissibility or otherwise of those documents
was not before the Division Bench at all. To this limited extent we set aside
the order of the Copyright Board dated 25 th August, 2009 leaving this issue
to be decided at some appropriate stage, as may be advised.
Since the order of the Division Bench suggests its anxiety to have the
complaint before the Copyright Board expeditiously disposed of, we would
request the Copyright Board to try and quickly dispose it off, keeping in mind
at all times the procedural practice suggested by the Supreme Court in Navjot
Sandhu and the law laid down by us.
57\. The appeal is partly dismissed.
                                             (MADAN B. LOKUR)
                            with Mr. Himanshu Bagai, Mr. Thomas
                            George and Ms. Manmeet Sethi, Advocates
                            Versus
          M/S. RADIO MID DAY( WEST) INDIA LTD
          156 D, J. Dadajee Road
          Tardeo Road
          Mumbai-34.                          ...Respondent
                            Through Mr. Neeraj Kishan Kaul, Sr.
                            Advocate with Mr. Neil Hildreth, Advocate
    Coram:
    HON'BLE THE ACTING CHIEF JUSTICE
    HON'BLE MS. JUSTICE MUKTA GUPTA
    1. Whether the Reporters of local papers may
       be allowed to see the judgment?                          Yes
    RFA No. 440/2009                                     Page 1 of 37
     2. To be referred to Reporter or not?                             Yes
    3. Whether the judgment should be reported
       in the Digest?                                                 Yes
    MADAN B. LOKUR, ACJ
          Three issues that arise for our consideration are: First, whether this
was not before us.
RFA No. 440/2009 Page 36 of 37 We hold that the Copyright Board erred in its
order passed on 25 th August, 2009 in relying on the order dated 4 th August,
2009 passed by a Division Bench of this Court for coming to the conclusion
that the annual report of the Respondent and other documents were
―inadmissible‖ in evidence. The admissibility or otherwise of those documents
was not before the Division Bench at all. To this limited extent we set aside
the order of the Copyright Board dated 25 th August, 2009 leaving this issue
to be decided at some appropriate stage, as may be advised.
Since the order of the Division Bench suggests its anxiety to have the
complaint before the Copyright Board expeditiously disposed of, we would
request the Copyright Board to try and quickly dispose it off, keeping in mind
at all times the procedural practice suggested by the Supreme Court in Navjot
Sandhu and the law laid down by us.
57\. The appeal is partly dismissed.
                                             (MADAN B. LOKUR)
                            with Mr. Himanshu Bagai, Mr. Thomas
                            George and Ms. Manmeet Sethi, Advocates
                            Versus
          M/S. RADIO MID DAY( WEST) INDIA LTD
          156 D, J. Dadajee Road
          Tardeo Road
          Mumbai-34.                          ...Respondent
                            Through Mr. Neeraj Kishan Kaul, Sr.
                            Advocate with Mr. Neil Hildreth, Advocate
    Coram:
    HON'BLE THE ACTING CHIEF JUSTICE
    HON'BLE MS. JUSTICE MUKTA GUPTA
    1. Whether the Reporters of local papers may
       be allowed to see the judgment?                          Yes
    RFA No. 440/2009                                     Page 1 of 37
     2. To be referred to Reporter or not?                             Yes
    3. Whether the judgment should be reported
       in the Digest?                                                 Yes
    MADAN B. LOKUR, ACJ
          Three issues that arise for our consideration are: First, whether this
was not before us.
RFA No. 440/2009 Page 36 of 37 We hold that the Copyright Board erred in its
order passed on 25 th August, 2009 in relying on the order dated 4 th August,
2009 passed by a Division Bench of this Court for coming to the conclusion
that the annual report of the Respondent and other documents were
―inadmissible‖ in evidence. The admissibility or otherwise of those documents
was not before the Division Bench at all. To this limited extent we set aside
the order of the Copyright Board dated 25 th August, 2009 leaving this issue
to be decided at some appropriate stage, as may be advised.
Since the order of the Division Bench suggests its anxiety to have the
complaint before the Copyright Board expeditiously disposed of, we would
request the Copyright Board to try and quickly dispose it off, keeping in mind
at all times the procedural practice suggested by the Supreme Court in Navjot
Sandhu and the law laid down by us.
57\. The appeal is partly dismissed.
                                             (MADAN B. LOKUR)
                            with Mr. Himanshu Bagai, Mr. Thomas
                            George and Ms. Manmeet Sethi, Advocates
                            Versus
          M/S. RADIO MID DAY( WEST) INDIA LTD
          156 D, J. Dadajee Road
          Tardeo Road
          Mumbai-34.                          ...Respondent
                            Through Mr. Neeraj Kishan Kaul, Sr.
                            Advocate with Mr. Neil Hildreth, Advocate
    Coram:
    HON'BLE THE ACTING CHIEF JUSTICE
    HON'BLE MS. JUSTICE MUKTA GUPTA
    1. Whether the Reporters of local papers may
       be allowed to see the judgment?                          Yes
    RFA No. 440/2009                                     Page 1 of 37
     2. To be referred to Reporter or not?                             Yes
    3. Whether the judgment should be reported
       in the Digest?                                                 Yes
    MADAN B. LOKUR, ACJ
          Three issues that arise for our consideration are: First, whether this
    appeal under Section 72(2) of the Copyright Act, 1957 is maintainable
    against interlocutory orders passed by the Copyright Board. In our
    opinion, the answer to this question must be in the negative and we rely,
    inter alia, upon Shah Babula Khimji v. Jayaben D. Kania & Anr,
    (1981) 4 SCC 8 for our conclusion.
    Second, assuming this appeal to be competent, whether the impugned
    orders passed by the Copyright Board are sustainable in law. In our
    opinion, the answer to this question must be a qualified affirmative.
    Third, whether the helplessness expressed by learned counsel for the
    parties with regard to the administrative support given to the Copyright
    Board (for which, admittedly, the Board is not to be blamed) can be
was not before us.
RFA No. 440/2009 Page 36 of 37 We hold that the Copyright Board erred in its
order passed on 25 th August, 2009 in relying on the order dated 4 th August,
2009 passed by a Division Bench of this Court for coming to the conclusion
that the annual report of the Respondent and other documents were
―inadmissible‖ in evidence. The admissibility or otherwise of those documents
was not before the Division Bench at all. To this limited extent we set aside
the order of the Copyright Board dated 25 th August, 2009 leaving this issue
to be decided at some appropriate stage, as may be advised.
Since the order of the Division Bench suggests its anxiety to have the
complaint before the Copyright Board expeditiously disposed of, we would
request the Copyright Board to try and quickly dispose it off, keeping in mind
at all times the procedural practice suggested by the Supreme Court in Navjot
Sandhu and the law laid down by us.
57\. The appeal is partly dismissed.
                                             (MADAN B. LOKUR)
                            with Mr. Himanshu Bagai, Mr. Thomas
                            George and Ms. Manmeet Sethi, Advocates
                            Versus
          M/S. RADIO MID DAY( WEST) INDIA LTD
          156 D, J. Dadajee Road
          Tardeo Road
          Mumbai-34.                          ...Respondent
                            Through Mr. Neeraj Kishan Kaul, Sr.
                            Advocate with Mr. Neil Hildreth, Advocate
    Coram:
    HON'BLE THE ACTING CHIEF JUSTICE
    HON'BLE MS. JUSTICE MUKTA GUPTA
    1. Whether the Reporters of local papers may
       be allowed to see the judgment?                          Yes
    RFA No. 440/2009                                     Page 1 of 37
     2. To be referred to Reporter or not?                             Yes
    3. Whether the judgment should be reported
       in the Digest?                                                 Yes
    MADAN B. LOKUR, ACJ
          Three issues that arise for our consideration are: First, whether this
    appeal under Section 72(2) of the Copyright Act, 1957 is maintainable
    against interlocutory orders passed by the Copyright Board. In our
    opinion, the answer to this question must be in the negative and we rely,
    inter alia, upon Shah Babula Khimji v. Jayaben D. Kania & Anr,
    (1981) 4 SCC 8 for our conclusion.
    Second, assuming this appeal to be competent, whether the impugned
    orders passed by the Copyright Board are sustainable in law. In our
    opinion, the answer to this question must be a qualified affirmative.
    Third, whether the helplessness expressed by learned counsel for the
    parties with regard to the administrative support given to the Copyright
    Board (for which, admittedly, the Board is not to be blamed) can be
was not before us.
RFA No. 440/2009 Page 36 of 37 We hold that the Copyright Board erred in its
order passed on 25 th August, 2009 in relying on the order dated 4 th August,
2009 passed by a Division Bench of this Court for coming to the conclusion
that the annual report of the Respondent and other documents were
―inadmissible‖ in evidence. The admissibility or otherwise of those documents
was not before the Division Bench at all. To this limited extent we set aside
the order of the Copyright Board dated 25 th August, 2009 leaving this issue
to be decided at some appropriate stage, as may be advised.
Since the order of the Division Bench suggests its anxiety to have the
complaint before the Copyright Board expeditiously disposed of, we would
request the Copyright Board to try and quickly dispose it off, keeping in mind
at all times the procedural practice suggested by the Supreme Court in Navjot
Sandhu and the law laid down by us.
57\. The appeal is partly dismissed.
                                             (MADAN B. LOKUR)
