Income Tax Appellate Tribunal - Delhi
Lg Electronics India (P) Ltd., New ... vs Acit, Noida on 18 July, 2018
               IN THE INCOME TAX APPELLATE TRIBUNAL
                    DELHI BENCH "I-2", NEW DELHI
            BEFORE SHRI R. K. PANDA, ACCOUNTANT MEMBER
                                 AND
                 SHRI KULDIP SINGH, JUDICIAL MEMBER
                           ITA Nos.3612 & 3613/Del/2017
                        Assessment Years : 2005-06 & 2006-07
    LG Electronics India (P) Ltd.,            ACIT, Circle- Noida,
    A- Wing (3rd Floor), D- 3,                Noida.
    District Center Saket,              Vs.
    New Delhi.
    PAN : AAACL1745Q
        (Appellant)                             (Respondent)
          Assessee by                    :     Shri Ajay Vohra, Sr.Adv.
                                               Shri Neeraj Jain, Adv.
                                               Shri Aditya Vohra, Adv.
                                               Shri Ramit Katyal, Adv.
          Department by                  :     Shri H. K. Choudhary, CIT-DR
79\. Ground no.15 relating to penalty proceedings u/s 271(1)(c) being
premature at this juncture is dismissed.
80\. In the result, both the appeals filed by the assessee are partly allowed
for statistical purposes.
Order pronounced in the open Court on this 18th day of July, 2018.
                  Sd/-                                              Sd/-
             (KULDIP SINGH)                                  (R. K. PANDA)
           JUDICIAL MEMBER                               ACCOUNTANT MEMBER
    Dated: 18-07-2018.
    Sujeet
    Copy of order to: -
           1)       The   Appellant
           2)       The   Respondent
           3)       The   CIT
           4)       The   CIT(A)
           5)       The   DR, I.T.A.T., New Delhi
          Department by                  :     Shri H. K. Choudhary, CIT-DR
          Date of hearing                :     19-04-2018
          Date of pronouncement          :     18-07-2018
                                     ORDER
PER R. K. PANDA, AM :
The above two appeals filed by the assessee are directed against the common
order dated 31.03.2017 of the CIT(A)- I, Noida, Uttar Pradesh relating to
assessment years 2005-06 & 2006-07 respectively. Since common grounds are
involved in both the appeals, therefore, these were heard together and are
being disposed of by this common order for the sake of convenience.  2
ITA No.3612/Del/2017 ITA No.3613/Del/2017 ITA No.3612/Del/2017 (A.Y. 2005-06)
:
2\. Facts of the case, in brief, are that the assessee is a private limited
company engaged in trading, manufacturing, marketing and sale of electronics,
home appliances, IT products, supply and installation of WLL systems,
terminals and GSM Mobile handsets and maintenance, repair and servicing of
CDMA networks, CDMA/GSM terminals and mobile handsets. It filed its return of
income on 29.10.2005 declaring total income of Rs.1,52,98,08,547/-.
Subsequently, the assessee filed a revised return declaring total income of
Rs.1,02,78,01,120/- after claiming the receipt of Rs.57,71,79,709/- from sales
tax department as capital receipts. Since the assessee has undertaken certain
international transactions with its AEs, the Assessing Officer referred the
matter to the TPO u/s 92CA(1) of the I.T. Act. The TPO vide order dated
31.10.2008 suggested upward adjustment of Rs.5,12,44,116/- being the arm's
length price of the international transactions of contribution towards World
Cup Tournament and an amount of Rs.18,66,31,111/- being the arm's length price
of the reimbursement of advertising, marketing and sales promotion expenses.
The Assessing Officer completed the assessment u/s 143(3) on 30.12.2008
determining the total income of the assessee at Rs.3,34,18,55,880/- after
allowing deduction of Rs.1,21,50,770/- u/s 80JJAA of the I.T. Act, 1961 as
against Rs.2,52,29,510/- claimed by the assessee in the original return of  3
ITA No.3612/Del/2017 ITA No.3613/Del/2017 income. The Assessing Officer in the
assessment made various additions under different heads.
3\. The assessee filed an appeal before the ld. CIT(A) who vide order dated
31.03.2017 not only confirmed the various additions made by the Assessing
Officer but also enhanced the income of the assessee by Rs.2,10,22,81,553/- by
disallowing expenditure incurred on account of procurement of raw materials
from third party vendors u/s 40(a)(ia) of the I.T. Act.
4\. Aggrieved with such order of the ld. CIT(A), the assessee is in appeal
before the Tribunal.
5\. The ground no.1 being general in nature is dismissed.
6\. In ground no.2 to 2.11, the assessee has challenged the order of the ld.
CIT(A) in enhancing the income of the assessee u/s 251(1)(a) by
Rs.241,53,75,866/- by disallowing the expenditure incurred on account of
procurement of materials from third party vendors u/s 40(a)(ia) of the I.T.
Act.
7\. Facts of the case, in brief, are that the Assessing Officer did not make
any addition in the assessment proceedings on this account. During the course
of appellate proceedings, ld. CIT(A) observed that the assessee has entered
into transactions with domestic third parties, LGEK and its related parties
for purchase of finished goods without deducting tax at source. He, therefore,
issued a show-cause notice dated 15.09.2016 asking the assessee to explain as
to why the income should not be enhanced since the provisions of section
40(a)(ia)  4 ITA No.3612/Del/2017 ITA No.3613/Del/2017 were not complied with
by the assessee. After considering the arguments advanced by the assessee, ld.
CIT(A) observed that out of the total purchases of Rs.11,13,06,73,826/-, the
assessee furnished relevant certificate prescribed under the second proviso to
section 40(a)(ia) read with proviso to section 201(1) of the I.T. Act
substantiating that the payees to the extent of Rs.871,52,97,960/- have
discharged their tax liability. He, therefore, made the disallowance of the
balance amount of Rs.241,53,75,866/- since the assessee was unable to furnish
necessary details/certificates demonstrating that the payees had paid tax on
the said payments.
8\. Aggrieved with such order of the ld. CIT(A), the assessee is in appeal
before the Tribunal.
9\. Ld. counsel for the assessee strongly objected to the order of the ld.
CIT(A) in disallowing the payment of Rs.241,53,75,866/- by enhancing the
assessment. Ld. counsel for the assessee at the outset submitted that the
powers of enhancement available with the ld. CIT(A) do not extend to
discovering new sources of income. Referring to the decisions of the Hon'ble
Supreme Court in the case of CIT vs. Shapoorji Pallonji Mistry reported in 44
ITR 891 and in the case of CIT vs. Rai Bahadur Hardutroy Motilal Chamaria
reported in 66 ITR 443, he submitted that the Hon'ble Apex Court has
categorically held that the ld. CIT(A) has no jurisdiction to travel beyond
the subject-matter of assessment and powers of enhancement relate only to that
income which has been subjected  5 ITA No.3612/Del/2017 ITA No.3613/Del/2017
to assessment and not to new sources of income. Referring to the decision of
the Hon'ble Delhi High Court in the case of CIT vs. Sardari Lal and Company
reported in 251 ITR 864 and in the case of CIT vs. Union Tyres reported in 240
ITR 556 and various other decision, he submitted that similar view has been
taken in the above decisions. He accordingly submitted that the disallowance
of expenditure incurred on purchase of finished goods from third party
manufactures on the ground of tax being not deducted at source at the time of
making payment, which issue was not raised by the Assessing Officer and was
not subject-matter of appeal before the ld. CIT(A), therefore, disallowance in
respect of the same was beyond the jurisdiction of the ld. CIT(A) u/s 251(1)
of the I.T. Act.
10\. In his alternate submission, he submitted that during the relevant
assessment year, the assessee purchased finished goods from independent,
domestic third party manufactures as well as LGEK and its related entities,
which were manufactures as per the specifications and requirements provided by
the assessee. The assessee has undertaken transactions for purchase of
finished goods, which were manufactured as per specifications of the assessee
but not for carrying out any work. He submitted that the agreements with
manufactures were also placed on record before the ld. CIT(A) to demonstrate
that the transactions were purely in the nature of purchase/sale transactions
and, therefore, not subject to deduction of tax at source u/s 194C of the I.T.
Act. He  6 ITA No.3612/Del/2017 ITA No.3613/Del/2017 submitted that the
manufactures were independent entities, who carried on the activity of
manufacturing, by independently procuring raw material from vendors on a
principal to principal basis, which on production were sold to the assessee
under an independent contract of sale entered on principal to principal basis.
The manufacturer charges a composite price for the finished goods sold to the
assessee after charging applicable excise duty and sales tax, wherever
applicable. He referred to section 194C, the CBDT Circular No.681 dated
21.02.1994 and the subsequent CBDT Circular No.13/2006 dated 13.12.2006 and
submitted that the goods sold are manufactured according to specifications of
the buyer is not relevant in determining whether the contract is a contract of
sale or works contract. What is relevant to determine is passing of
property/title in the goods from the vendor to the buyer. He submitted that
identical issue was raised by the Assessing Officer (TDS) for assessment year
2001-02 and 2002-03 wherein after detailed analysis, the tax demand was
deleted by all the appellate forums including the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the
case reported as CIT vs. Silver Oak Laboratories P. Ltd. vide SLP
No.18012/2009 wherein the assessee was also a respondent. He submitted that
the decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court squarely applies to the year under
consideration insofar as agreements entered into by the assessee with third
party manufactures during the year under consideration are same as agreements
in earlier years which have been held to be contract for sale by the Apex
Court and, therefore, the question of  7 ITA No.3612/Del/2017 ITA
No.3613/Del/2017 applicability of section 194C on payments for purchase of
finished goods does not arise. He also relied on the following decisions :-
          (i)      BDA Ltd. vs. ITO, 281 ITR 89 (Bom.).
          (ii)     CIT vs. Dabur India Ltd., 283 ITR 197 (Del.).
          (iii)    Dr. Willmar Sochwade India (P) Ltd., ITA NO.160/2006 (Del. HC).
          (iv)     CIT vs. Reebok India Co., 306 ITR 124 (Del.).
          (v)      CIT vs. Glenmark Pharamceuticals Ltd., 324 ITR 199 (Bom.).
          (vi)     DCIT vs. Samsung India Electronics Ltd. (ITA 3703/D/05).
          (vii)    Whirpool India Limited vs. JCIT, 109 TTJ 994 (Del.).
(viii) Hero MotoCorp Ltd. vs. ACIT, ITA No.1980/Del/2012 (Del Trib.).
(ix) ITO (OSD) vs. Mahanagar Telephone Nigam Ltd., 166 ITD 631 (Del Trib.).
(x) H.I. Tamboli & Co. vs. ACIT, Satara - [2017] 87 taxmann.com 155 (Pune -
Trib.).
11\. He submitted that section 194C was amended by the Finance (No.2) Act,
2009 w.e.f. 01.10.2009 whereby the definition of "work" was enlarged to
include contract for manufacturing or supplying of a product according to the
requirement or specification of a customer by using material purchased from
such customer. The said amendment also provided that contract for carrying out
work shall not include contract for manufacturing or supplying of product
according to the requirement or specification of a customer by using material
purchased from a person other than such customer. Since the in the instant
case, the finished goods are manufactured by the supplier as per the
prescribed specifications of the assessee and the raw material and other
ingredients required for manufacture are specified by the assessee in order to
ensure proper quality of the finished products, and since such raw materials
are acquired by the vendor on their own account and not on behalf of the
assessee, therefore, the  8 ITA No.3612/Del/2017 ITA No.3613/Del/2017 right of
ownership passes to the assessee only after the goods come into existence on
manufacture and are supplied to the assessee as finished goods. Prior thereto,
the risk in the goods vests with the vendor/supplier were the supplier to
incur any loss such as on account of fire, before passing of title in the
goods, the same would be borne by the vendor and not by the assessee.
Similarly, if the vendor were to go bad or recovery from him was to become
doubtful, said loss was to be borne by the supplier only and not the assessee.
All the other terms of the purchase/sale between the vendor and supplier, like
payment terms, period of delivery, etc. were agreed independently between the
said two parties and the assessee had no say in same. The contract between the
assessee and the vendor is for acquisition of ascertained goods, therefore,
the contract is thus one of sale and not a contract for carrying out work. He
accordingly submitted that the provisions of section 194C are not applicable
to the facts of the present case and, therefore, disallowance made u/s
40(a)(ia) is liable to be deleted.
12\. In his yet another alternate arguments, he submitted that there was a
bona-fide belief on the part of the assessee for non-deduction of tax at
source from such payments since in the prior years and subsequent years, no
such addition/disallowance was made. Referring to the decision of Hon'ble
Bombay High Court in the case CIT vs. Kotak Securities Ltd. reported in 245
CTR 3, he submitted that the Hon'ble High Court in the said decision has held
that where  9 ITA No.3612/Del/2017 ITA No.3613/Del/2017 both Revenue and
assessee were under bona-fide belief for nearly a decade that tax was not
deductible at source on payment of transaction charges, no fault could be
found with the assessee in not deducting tax at source in assessment year in
question and consequently disallowance made by the Assessing Officer u/s
40(a)(ia) in respect of transaction charges could not be sustained. Therefore,
the ld. CIT(A) is not justified in making the above addition u/s 40(a)(ia) of
the I.T. Act.
13\. In yet another alternate argument, ld. counsel for the assessee submitted
that the payees have already paid the tax and, therefore, no disallowance u/s
40(a)(ia) is called for. Referring to the decision of the Hon'ble Allahabad
High Court in the case of Jagran Prakashan Ltd. vs. DCIT reported in 345 ITR
288, he submitted that the Hon'ble High Court in the said decision has held
that in a case where tax has not been deducted at source, the short deducted
tax at source cannot be realized from the deductor and the liability to pay
such tax shall continue to be with the assessee direct whose income has to be
charged and a person who fails to deduct the tax at source, at best, is liable
for interest and penalty only. Since the payee in the instant case has already
paid the tax due on its income, therefore, no disallowance u/s 40(a)(ia) is
called for. Without prejudice to the above, he submitted that the
disallowance, if any, has to be restricted to 30% of the amount of such non-
deduction of tax and the entire addition cannot be disallowed u/s 40(a)(ia) of
the I.T. Act. For the above  10 ITA No.3612/Del/2017 ITA No.3613/Del/2017
proposition, he relied on the decision of the Delhi Bench of the Tribunal in
the case of Smt. Kanta Yadav, Prop. M/s Yadav Travels vs. ITO vide ITA
No.6312/Del/2016 order dated 12.05.2017 and the decision of the Jaipur Bench
of the Tribunal in the case of Shri Rajendra Yadav vs. ITO vide ITA
No.895/JP/2012 order dated 29.01.2016 and in the case of Smt. Sonu Khandelwal
vs. ITO vide ITA No.597/JP/2013 order dated 13.05.2016.
14\. So far as purchase from LGEK and related entities located outside India
is concerned, he submitted that the ld. CIT(A) while making disallowance of
payments made towards purchase of finished goods from domestic third parties
also invoked disallowance u/s 40(a)(ia) r.w.s. 194C of the Act qua payments
made to LGEK and related entities located outside India. While holding so, he
relied on the terms of para 1, 2, 3 and 5 of Article 5 of the India-Korea
DTAA. He submitted that the ld. CIT(A) without affording opportunity of being
heard to the assessee proceeded with summarily holding that the overseas group
companies were resident in India within the meaning of Article 5 of the India-
Korea DTAA by totally misconstruing the factual matrix and the provisions of
Article 5 of the DTAA. He submitted that LGEK or other related entities did
not have any Permanent Establishment (PE) in India within the meaning of
Article 5 of Treaty. He submitted that having PE of a foreign company in India
does not make such company a resident in India within the meaning of section 6
of the Act. He submitted that the provisions of section 6 are plain and  11
ITA No.3612/Del/2017 ITA No.3613/Del/2017 unambiguous and there is no
stipulation for a foreign company to be considered as resident in India, if
such foreign company has PE in India. He submitted that the provisions of
section 40(a)(ia) r.w.s. 194C are applicable only in relation to sum payable
to a resident and not to a non-resident. Therefore, the provisions of section
40(a)(ia) cannot be invoked for disallowance of payment made to such entities
for failing to deduct tax at source u/s 194C of the I.T. Act. The Revenue has
not demonstrated that the employees of the assessee are actually the employees
and nominees of the said overseas entities and are working under the direct
control and supervision of the overseas entities. Relying on various
decisions, he submitted that no disallowance u/s 40(a)(ia) is called for.
15\. The ld. DR on the other hand heavily relied on the order of the ld.
CIT(A). He submitted that the powers of the ld. CIT(A) are coterminous with
that of the Assessing Officer. He could do what the Assessing Officer has
failed to do. He submitted that any allowance/disallowance u/s 40(a)(ia) is
not a new source. It is only an interpretation of the existing source of
income. Since the disallowance u/s 40(a)(ia) is not new source of income,
therefore, various decisions relied on by the ld. counsel for the assessee are
not applicable to the facts of the present case. Heavily relying on the order
of the ld. CIT(A), he submitted that these purchasers are to be termed as
"works contract" and not mere purchase of goods. The assessee has not
demonstrated as to how the ld. CIT(A)'s findings are wrong or erroneous.
Referring to the provision of section  12 ITA No.3612/Del/2017 ITA
No.3613/Del/2017 194C Explanation (iv)(e), he submitted that as per the said
provisions "work" shall include manufacturing or supplying a product according
to the requirement or specification of a customer by using material purchased
from such customer. Therefore, this provision is clearly applicable to the
facts of the present case. 15.1 As regards the arguments by the ld. counsel
for the assessee that the assessee was under bona-fide belief for non-
deduction of tax at source from such payment is concerned, he submitted that
the decision relied on by the ld. counsel for the assessee was rendered under
the provisions of section 194J of the I.T. Act. Therefore, the assessee cannot
escape from the clutches of the law on account of bona-fide belief. So far as
the argument of the ld. counsel for the assessee that payees have paid the tax
due on their income is concerned, he submitted that the same is subject to
verification.
15.2 The ld. counsel for the assessee, in his rejoinder, submitted that the
ld. DR by making a statement of allowance or disallowance is creating a new
source by disallowing some expenditure, which is going to increase the taxable
income of the assessee. He submitted that such type of argument by the ld. DR
is not in accordance with law.
15.3 So far as argument of ld. DR that it is a contract and not a sale is
concerned, he submitted that a contract of sale is governed by the Sale of
Goods Act. The suppliers in the instant case have paid the sales-tax and
excise duty etc. The right in the goods passed to the assessee only after the
sale.  13
ITA No.3612/Del/2017 ITA No.3613/Del/2017
16\. We have considered the rival arguments made by both the sides and perused
the orders of the Assessing Officer and the ld. CIT(A) and the Paper Book
filed on behalf of the assessee. We have also considered the various decisions
cited before us. It is an admitted fact that the Assessing Officer in the body
of the assessment order has not discussed anything about the applicability of
the provisions of section 40(a)(ia) on account of non-deduction of tax from
payments made on account of procurement of material from third party vendors.
We find the ld. CIT(A) during the appellate proceedings before him has issued
the enhancement notice for such disallowance. It is the submission of the ld.
counsel for the assessee that that powers of enhancement available with the
ld. CIT(A) do not extend to discovery of new sources of income. As per the
provisions of section 251(1) in disposing of appeal, the ld. CIT(A) in an
appeal against the order of assessment may confirm/reduce/enhance or annul the
assessment. The Hon'ble Delhi High Court in the case of CIT vs. Sardari Lal
and Co. (supra) has held as under :-
> "Looking from the aforesaid angles, the inevitable conclusion is that
> whenever the question of taxability of income from a new source of income is
> concerned, which had not been considered by the Assessing Officer, the
> jurisdiction to deal with the same in appropriate cases may be dealt with
> under section 147/148 of the Act and section 263 of the Act, if requisite
> conditions are fulfilled. It is inconceivable that in the presence of such
> specific provisions, a similar power is available to the first appellate
> authority. That being the position, the decision in Union Tyres' case [1999]
> 240 ITR 556 of this court expresses the correct view and does not need
> reconsideration. This reference is accordingly disposed of."
14
> ITA No.3612/Del/2017 ITA No.3613/Del/2017 16.1 The Pune Bench of the
> Tribunal in the case of Ram Infrastructure Ltd. vs. JCIT vide ITA
> No.746/PN/2013 order dated 30.12.2016 while dealing with an identical issue
> where the ld. CIT(A) had enhanced the income of the assessee by discovering
> a new source of income has held such addition as void ab-initio by observing
> as under :-
> "12. In ground Nos. 5 and 6 the assessee has assailed the addition of
> `7,37,68,681/- made u/s. 2(22)(e) of the Act by the Commissioner of Income
> Tax (Appeals). The Assessing Officer in his order has not touched upon the
> issue of deemed dividend. The Commissioner of Income Tax (Appeals) has
> observed that the assessee has violated the provisions of section 42 of the
> Companies Act. The subsidiary of the company has made investment in the
> share capital of the assessee (a holding company). The ld. AR of the
> assessee has made two fold submissions. The first contention of the assessee
> is that the Commissioner of Income Tax (Appeals) cannot made addition on the
> basis of new source of income during first appellate proceedings. The
> Hon'ble Supreme Court of India in the case of Commissioner of Income Tax Vs.
> Shapoorji Pallonji Mistry (supra) has held that AAC is not competent to
> enhance assessment in appeal by discovering new source of income not
> mentioned in return or consider by the Assessing Officer in assessment. The
> relevant extract of the judgment of Hon'ble Apex Court in the aforesaid case
> is as under:
> "8...............The only question is whether in enhancing the assessment
> for any year he can travel outside the record, that is to say, the return
> made by the assessee and the assessment order passed by the Income tax
> Officer with a view to finding out new sources of income, not disclosed in
> either. It is contended by the Commissioner of Income tax that the word "
> assessment " here means the ultimate amount which an assessee must pay,
> regard being had to the charging section and his total income. In this view,
> it is said that the words " enhance the assessment " are not confined to the
> assessment reached through a particular process but the amount which ought
> to have been computed if the true total income had been found. There is no
> doubt that this view is also possible. On the other hand, it must not be
> overlooked that there are other provisions like sections 34 and 33B, which
> enable escaped income from new sources to be brought to tax after following
> a special procedure. The assessee contends that the powers of the Appellate
> Assistant Commissioner extend to matters considered by the Income tax
> Officer, and if a new source is to be considered, then the power of remand
> should be exercised. By the exercise of the power to assess fresh sources of
> income, the assessee is deprived of a finding by two tribunals and one right
> of appeal.
> 9\. The question is whether we should accept the interpretation suggested by
> the Commissioner in preference to the one, which has held the field for
> nearly 37 years. In view of the provisions of sections 34 and 33B by which
> escaped income can be brought to tax, there is reason to think that the view
> expressed uniformly about the limits of the powers of the Appellate
> Assistant  15 ITA No.3612/Del/2017 ITA No.3613/Del/2017 Commissioner to
> enhance the assessment has been accepted by the legislature as the true
> exposition of the words of the section. If it were not, one would expect
> that the legislature would have amended section 31 and specified the other
> intention in express words. The Income tax Act was amended several times in
> the last 37 years, but no amendment of section 31(3) was undertaken to
> nullify the rulings, to which we have referred. In view of this, we do not
> think that we should interpret section 31 differently from what has been
> accepted in India as its true import, particularly as that view is also
> reasonably possible."
> 13\. The Hon'ble Apex Court thereafter in the case of Commissioner of Income
> Tax Vs. Rai Bahadur Hardutroy Motilal Chamaria (supra) has reaffirmed its
> view taken in the case of Commissioner of Income Tax Vs. Shapoorji Pallonji
> Mistry (supra). The Hon'ble justice V. Ramaswami speaking for the court
> stated:
> "As we have already stated, it is not open to the Appellate Assistant
> Commissioner to travel outside the record, i.e., the return made by the
> assessee or the assessment order of the Income tax Officer with a view to
> find out new sources of income and the power of enhancement under section
> 31(3) of the Act is restricted to the sources of income which have been the
> subject matter of consideration by the Income tax Officer from the point of
> view of taxability. In this context " consideration " does not mean "
> incidental " or " collateral " examination of any matter by the Income tax
> Officer in the process of assessment. There must be something in the
> assessment order to show that the Income tax Officer applied his mind to the
> particular subject matter or the particular source of income with a view to
> its taxability or to its non taxability and not to any incidental
> connection".
> The law laid down by the Hon'ble Apex Court has been reiterated by the full
> Bench of the Hon'ble Delhi High Court in the case of Commissioner of Income
> Tax Vs. Sardari Lal & Co. (supra). The Hon'ble Delhi High Court held :
> "Looking from the aforesaid angles, the inevitable conclusion is that
> whenever the question of taxability of income from a new source of income is
> concerned, which had not been considered by the Assessing Officer, the
> jurisdiction to deal with the same in appropriate cases may be dealt with
> under section 147/148 of the Act and section 263 of the Act, if requisite
> conditions are fulfilled. It is inconceivable that in the presence of such
> specific provisions, a similar power is available to the first appellate
> authority".
> Thus, in view of the well settled law laid down by the Hon'ble Apex Court
> and subsequently followed by the Hon'ble Delhi High Court we hold that the
> Commissioner of Income Tax (Appeals) has exceeded his jurisdiction in making
> addition u/s. 2(22)(e) of the Act as there is no reference of such income
> either in the return of income or in the assessment proceedings. Thus, the
> addition made u/s.
2(22)(e) by Commissioner of Income Tax (Appeals) is not sustainable and is
therefore set aside being void ab-initio. Since, the addition made by the
Commissioner of Income Tax (Appeals) u/s. 2(22)(e) of the Act has been held to
be void ab-initio, the arguments raised by the ld. AR of the assessee on
merits have become academic and are thus, not dealt with. The ground Nos. 5
and 6 raised by the assessee in grounds of appeal are allowed, accordingly."
16
ITA No.3612/Del/2017 ITA No.3613/Del/2017
17\. Since in the instant case also, there is no discussion of any such
disallowance either in the return of income or in the assessment proceedings,
therefore, the disallowance made by the ld. CIT(A) by discovering a new source
of income is not sustainable in law. We, therefore, hold that the disallowance
made by the ld. CIT(A) u/s 40(a)(ia) is void ab-initio. Since we are allowing
the grounds raised by the assessee on the issue of enhancement of assessment
by the ld. CIT(A) by discovering a new source of income, the other alternate
arguments made by the ld. counsel for the assessee become academic in nature
and therefore are not being adjudicated. The grounds no.2 to 2.11 are
accordingly allowed.
18\. In ground no.3, the assessee has challenged the order of the ld. CIT(A)
in treating the sales-tax subsidy of Rs.57,71,79,709/- as taxable revenue
receipt, as against capital receipt treated by the assessee.
19\. After hearing both the sides, we find identical issue had come up before
the Tribunal in assessee's own case for the preceding assessment year. We find
the Tribunal has discussed the issue at para 14 of its order and following the
order of the Tribunal in assessee's own case for assessment year 2002-03 has
decided the issue against the assessee by observing as under :-
> "14. Ground No. 8 is against the treatment of sales tax subsidy of
> `61,00,79,579/- as taxable revenue receipt. The facts concerning this ground
> are that the assessee treated sales tax subsidy as capital receipt, which
> was held by the AO to be chargeable to tax in the nature of revenue receipt.
> It is noticed that this issue came up for consideration before the Tribunal
> in earlier years. For the first time, the tribunal decided it against the
> assessee for the assessment year 2002-03 and such view has been followed for
> the subsequent years. In view of the consistent view taken by the  17 ITA
> No.3612/Del/2017 ITA No.3613/Del/2017 Tribunal in deciding sales tax subsidy
> as revenue receipt, we do not find any reason to interfere with the impugned
> order on this issue. This ground fails."
20\. Respectfully following the decision of the Tribunal in assessee's own
case in the immediately preceding assessment year, we decide the ground
against the assessee.
21\. In ground no.4, the assessee has challenged the order of the ld. CIT(A)
in upholding the action of the Assessing Officer in disallowing the provision
for service warranty of Rs.10,05,19,000/-.
22\. After hearing both the sides, we find identical issue had come up before
the Tribunal in assessee's own case for assessment year 2007-08. We find the
Tribunal following the order of the Tribunal in assessee's own case for
assessment years 2002-03, 2003-04 and 2004-05 has decided the issue in favour
of the assessee. Respectfully following the precedent, the ground raised by
the assessee on this issue is allowed.
23\. In ground no.5, the assessee has challenged the order of the ld. CIT(A)
in upholding the action of the Assessing Officer in disallowing royalty
amounting to Rs.88,38,75,000/- paid to LG Electronics Inc. Korea holding the
same to be capital expenditure.
24\. The facts of the case, in brief, are that the assessee during the year
made payment on royalty to his holding company M/s LG Electronics, Korea
(LGEK) for the right to use technical knowledge, know-how, process,
specifications, lay  18 ITA No.3612/Del/2017 ITA No.3613/Del/2017 outs,
designs, drawings and quality standard, standard calculation, etc.. Rejecting
the various explanations given by the assessee and relying on various
decision, the Assessing Officer treated such royalty payment as capital
expenditure as against revenue expenditure treated by the assessee. In appeal,
the ld. CIT(A) upheld the action of the Assessing Officer for which assessee
is in appeal before the Tribunal.
25\. We find identical issue had come up before the Tribunal in assessee's own
case for assessment year 2007-08. We find the Tribunal decided the issue in
favour of the assessee by observing as under :-
> 16.1. We have heard the rival submissions and perused the relevant material
> on record. In order to decide as to whether the royalty paid by the assessee
> is of a capital or revenue nature, it is appropriate to see the relevant
> clauses of the Agreement dated 01.07.2001, pursuant to which such royalty
> was paid. The preamble part of the Agreement states that the Licensor allows
> 'use of' Technical Information and Industrial Property Rights for the
> manufacture, production and sale of the products. Article 1 of the Agreement
> defines 'Technical Information' to mean all the technical knowledge,
> knowhow, process, specification, lay outs, designs, drawings, and qualities
> standards, standards calculation, data and information developed or
> otherwise generally used by the licensor pertaining to the manufacture,
> production, assembly, use and sale of the agreed products. Article 2 of the
> Agreement states that: 'Subject to the terms and conditions set forth in
> this Agreement, Licensor hereby grants to Licensee an exclusive,
> nontransferable license, without the right to sub- license, and the right to
> manufacture, produce, use, sell, or otherwise dispose of the Agreed Products
> utilizing the Technical Information and/or Industrial Property Rights
> furnished by Licensor...'. Article 4 of the Agreement dealing with Royalty
> payment stipulates that: 'In consideration of the use of the Industrial
> Property Rights, designs, technical know-how, for all types, sizes and
> models of Colour Televisions that may be manufactured in future .........,
> Licensee shall pay Licensor a Royalty fee @ 1% .........'. Article 7 with
> caption 'Use of 'LG' Brand name & trade mark' provides that: 'The Licensor
> hereby allows the Licensee for the use of its Brand Name and Trade Mark for
> the licensed products ..........'. Article 11 of the Agreement contains a
> Termination clause. Para 11.4 of the Agreement with marginal note
> 'Confidentiality' stipulates that: 'The Licensee shall keep secret and
> confidential, and shall not directly or indirectly disclose, divulge or
> reveal either during continuance of this agreement or at any time
> thereafter, the classified information disclosed, communicated or given or
> granted or otherwise acquired by the Licensee ..........'.
Para 11.3 stipulates that: 'Upon the termination, all the respective rights
and  19 ITA No.3612/Del/2017 ITA No.3613/Del/2017 obligation of the parties
hereunder, except for obligations having accrued to the date and those of a
continuing nature such as confidentiality, shall cease.'. On an overview of
the various clauses of the Agreement, it transpires that the Agreement is for
allowing the 'use of' the Technical Information and IPRS for the manufacture
of specified products. Such rights have been given exclusively to the
assessee. This agreement simply allows the use of Technical Information and
IPRS without granting any ownership rights in it to the assessee. Further the
grant of license to the assessee is non-transferable with no right of sub-
licensing. Apart from that, there is a confidentiality clause which prohibits
the assessee from disclosing the information received pursuant to this
Agreement, to anyone else either during the continuation of this agreement or
at any time thereafter. It is a perpetual agreement without there being any
fixed duration of the license. The termination clause provides that upon
termination, all the respective rights and obligation of the parties, namely,
the use of technical knowhow and IPRS, shall cease. In other words, the
assessee will not be entitled to use this technical know-how or IPRS after the
termination of the agreement. Now the moot question which arises is as to
whether the royalty paid for the use of technical knowhow and IPRS in the
given circumstances be held as a capital expenditure as has been held by the
AO or revenue expenditure as claimed by the assessee.
16.2. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in CIT Vs Ciba of India Ltd. (1968) 69 ITR 692
(SC) considered a situation in which that assessee was enabled to acquire the
right to draw for the purpose of carrying on its business as a manufacturer
and dealer of permissible products upon the technical knowledge available from
the foreign company for a limited period with stipulation not to divulge the
information to third parties and further return such information on the
conclusion of agreement with the prohibition of not using the same after
termination of the agreement. The payment made for this purpose was eventually
held to be an admissible revenue expenditure. In that case the information
supplied was to be surrendered on the termination of the agreement and not to
be put to use thereafter. In CIT Vs I.A.E.C (Pumps) Ltd. (1998) 232 ITR 316
(SC), the Hon'ble Supreme Court considered a case in which payment was made
for use of patents and designs exclusively in India; the agreement was for a
duration of 10 years with the parties having option to extend the agreement;
there was a clause for non-disclosure to the third parties. In view of these
facts, the Hon'ble Apex Court held that the expenditure incurred was only a
revenue expenditure because what was obtained by the assessee was only a
licence and what was paid by the assessee was only a licence fee and not the
price for acquisition of any capital asset. In CIT Vs Indian Oxygen Ltd.
(1996) 218 ITR 337 (SC), the assessee entered into agreement for the use of
information, processes or invention and was prohibited from disclosing them
after termination of agreement and further the agreement was terminable even
prior to the period specified therein. The payment so made was held to be of
revenue nature. In CIT Vs Wavin (India) Ltd. (1996) 236 ITR 314 (SC), payment
made by that assessee was under nonexclusive and non-transferable agreement
for the use of technical information, which was held by the Hon'ble Supreme
Court as a revenue expenditure.
16.3. In contrast to above decisions holding payment of royalty as a revenue
expenditure, there is a line of judgments holding the payment of royalty as a
capital expenditure. In Jonas Woodhead & Sons Ltd. Vs CIT (1997) 224 ITR 342
(SC), the assessee set up a new business and the foreign firm, in addition to
supplying technical knowhow, also rendered valuable services in setting up the
factory itself and the  20 ITA No.3612/Del/2017 ITA No.3613/Del/2017 assessee
was allowed to manufacture the products even after the expiry of the
agreement. The Hon'ble Supreme Court held that 25% of the royalty was a
capital expenditure. In Southern Switchgear Ltd. VS. CIT and Anr. (1998) 232
ITR 359 (SC), the foreign company provided technical knowhow and other
services to the assessee company. The technical assistance also contemplated
establishment of a factory. On the expiry of agreement after 5 years, the
assessee could use method of production, procedure etc. In the backdrop of
these facts, the Hon'ble Supreme Court held that the payment was made by the
Indian assessee for acquisition of knowledge which was of enduring nature and
hence a capital expenditure.
16.4. An analysis of the above judgments rendered by the Hon'ble Summit Court
clearly brings out that whereas the payment made for acquisition of technical
know- how etc. on ownership basis is a capital expenditure, the payment made
for use of such technical know-how is a revenue expenditure. A divider in the
capital and revenue expenditure in the circumstances as are presently
prevailing can be placed by ascertaining the correct nature of the right
vested in the licensee. If licensee is allowed not only the simplictor use of
technical know-how, but such use is coupled with the divesting of ownership in
favour of the user, then it can be considered as a case of capital
expenditure. If on the other hand, the licensee is allowed a simple use
without anything else, then it can be only a revenue expenditure. The mere
fact that the expenditure is resulting into bestowing a benefit of enduring
nature in the shape of user of technical know-how, with whose assistance the
assessee is carrying on its main activity of business, cannot be the sole
determinative test of the nature of expenditure. The Hon'ble Apex Court in
Empire Jute Co. Ltd. VS. CIT (1980) 124 ITR 1 (SC) has held that there may be
cases where expenditure, even if incurred for obtaining advantage of enduring
benefit, may, none the less, be on revenue account and the test of enduring
benefit may break down. Their Lordships emphatically laid down that : 'If the
advantage consists merely in facilitating the assessee's trading operations or
enabling the management and conduct of the assessee's business to be carried
on more efficiently or more profitably while leaving the fixed capital
untouched, the expenditure would be on revenue account, even though the
advantage may endure for an indefinite future'. Thus, it follows that if an
assessee gets benefit of enduring nature by incurring the expenditure, but
such benefit simply facilities the carrying on the business in a more
profitable manner without enhancing the fixed capital base, it will be a case
of revenue expenditure. If on the other hand, the expenditure results into
acquisition of asset as an owner and not as a mere user, which augments the
fixed capital base, the payment is a capital expenditure. 16.5. Armed with the
above legal position, we need to ascertain if the assessee acquired use as
well as ownership of technical know-how etc. or was allowed a simple use
devoid of ownership. In order to decide this issue, all the attending facts
and circumstances of the case need to be viewed. Some of the factors of
relevance in deciding the overall question as to whether the payment is
capital or revenue can be, the exclusive or nonexclusive use; fixed or
perpetual tenure of the agreement for transfer of the technical knowhow; the
availability or otherwise of technical knowhow after the termination of the
agreement; pursuant to the surrendering of such technical know-how on the
termination of the agreement, the existence or otherwise of right to use
technical knowledge which the licensee may have imbibed during the currency of
the agreement; the existence or otherwise of confidentiality clause in the
agreement debarring the licensee from sharing it with others during the
continuance of the agreement or thereafter. In fact, there can be no single
conclusive test for deciding  21 ITA No.3612/Del/2017 ITA No.3613/Del/2017 the
nature of royalty payment as to whether it is revenue or capital. It is the
cumulative effect of all the above discussed factors which helps in
ascertaining the true nature of royalty payment.
16.6. When we come back to the facts of the instant case it is observed that
the factors which weigh in favour of the assessee are that the license was
given on non- transferable basis; there is a confidentiality clause
prohibiting the assessee from divulging the relevant information during
continuation of the agreement or any time thereafter; on the termination of
the agreement, respective rights or obligations under the agreement shall
cease; and there is no power with the assessee to sub-license. On the other
hand, the factors which weigh against the assessee are that the license is
exclusively granted to the assessee; and the license is not for a limited
period but perpetual. On considering the cumulative effect of all the factors,
both for and against the assessee, we have no hesitation in holding such
royalty payment to be of a revenue nature. The reason is ostensible, being the
factors pointing towards revenue expenditure predominantly overshadowing the
factors pointing against revenue expenditure. The factors which are against
the assessee are albeit material, but stand outshined by the factors which are
in favour of the assessee. It is a case of royalty payment in lieu of the 'use
of' license devoid of conferring any ownership rights in the licenseeassessee.
16.7. The judgment in the case of Ram Kumar Pharmaceutical Works VS. CIT
(1979) 119 ITR 33 (All) as relied by the AO is not germane to the issue under
consideration. In that case, royalty was paid for acquiring ownership of know-
how and was hence held to be an expenditure incurred to obtain a right of an
enduring nature. We further find that the Hon'ble jurisdictional High Court in
a later case of CIT VS. Prem Heavy Engg. Works (P) Ltd. (2006) 282 ITR 11
(All) has held the payment for acquiring technical know-how for manufacture of
plant and not for establishment of factory itself for a period of seven years,
as a revenue expenditure. 16.8. We, therefore, sum up our conclusion by
holding that that the total royalty payment, as reduced by the transfer
pricing adjustment on this score, be treated as a revenue expenditure. This
ground is allowed."
26\. Respectfully following the decision of the Tribunal in assessee's own
case for assessment year 2007-08, we hold that the total royalty payment as
reduced by the transfer pricing adjustment on this score be treated as revenue
expenditure. The ground raised by the assessee on this issue is accordingly
allowed.
27\. In ground no.6, the assessee has challenged the order of the ld. CIT(A)
in upholding the action of the Assessing Officer in disallowing the export  22
ITA No.3612/Del/2017 ITA No.3613/Del/2017 commission of Rs.3,23,54,000/- paid
to LG Electronics Inc. Korea holding the same as not genuine business
expenditure.
28\. The ld. counsel for the assessee at the outset fairly conceded that this
issue has been decided against the assessee by the order of the Tribunal in
assessee's own case. Therefore, the ground raised by the assessee on this
issue is dismissed.
29\. In ground no.7, the assessee has challenged the order of the ld. CIT(A)
in upholding the action of the Assessing Officer in disallowing the claim of
bad debts of Rs.2,13,72,159/-.
30\. Facts of the case, in brief, are that the assessee claimed expenditure of
Rs.2,13,72,159/- on account of bad debts written off. The Assessing Officer
disallowed the same which was upheld by the ld. CIT(A). It is the submission
of the ld. counsel for the assessee that the amounts were actually written off
by the assessee during the relevant previous year. Relying on the decision of
the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of TRF Ltd. vs. CIT reported in 323 ITR
397, he submitted that the bad debts written off should be deleted. We find
the ld. CIT(A) rejected the claim of the assessee on the ground that the
assessee has not made out any case except making a bald claim that it has
fulfilled the requirement of section 36(1)(vii) or 36(2) of the I.T. Act.
Since the assessee is required to fulfill the twin conditions, therefore,
considering the totality of the facts of the case and in the interest of
justice, we deem it proper to restore the  23 ITA No.3612/Del/2017 ITA
No.3613/Del/2017 issue to the file of the Assessing Officer with a direction
to give one more opportunity to the assessee to substantiate the claim of
allowability of bad debts. The ground raised by the assessee on this issue is
accordingly allowed for statistical purposes.
31\. In ground no.8 & 8.1, the assessee has challenged the order of the ld.
CIT(A) in upholding the action of the Assessing Officer in disallowing the
claim of deduction u/s 80JJAA.
32\. The ld. counsel for the assessee at the outset fairly conceded that this
issue is decided against the assessee by the Tribunal in assessee's own case
in earlier years and in assessment year 2007-08. In view of the above
submission of the ld. counsel for the assessee, ground no.8 & 8.1 are
dismissed.
33\. The ground no.9 & 9.1 was not pressed by the ld. counsel for the assessee
on the ground that the Assessing Officer has already passed order u/s 154 and
the disallowance was deleted. The above ground was dismissed as not pressed.
34\. Ground no.10 being general in nature is dismissed.
35\. Ground no.11 is co-related to grounds no.2 to 2.11 wherein the ld. CIT(A)
has enhanced the assessment by making disallowance u/s 40(a)(ia). We have
already adjudicated this ground. Therefore, this ground is not being
adjudicated separately.
24
ITA No.3612/Del/2017 ITA No.3613/Del/2017
36\. In ground no.12 to 12.3, the assessee has challenged the Transfer Pricing
adjustment on account of international transaction of payment of royalty of
Rs.83,96,816/-.
37\. Facts of the case, in brief, are that in terms of the technical
assistance and royalty agreement the assessee pays royalty for use of
technical know-how @ 5%. The assessee benchmarked the aforesaid transaction by
applying the Comparable Uncontrolled Price (CUP) Method and selected certain
comparables for the purpose of benchmarking analysis. However, the TPO/DRP
rejected the same and determined the arm's length royalty rate at 4.50%.
38\. The TPO, in the remand report, proposed the transfer pricing adjustment
on account of payment of royalty amounting to Rs.26,51,62,726/-.
39\. However, the CIT(A), in the impugned order, following the order of AY
2007-08 restricted the arm's length royalty rate to 4.05% and accordingly made
an adjustment of Rs.25,19,045/- being the excess amount paid by the assessee
as royalty.
40\. After hearing both the sides, we do not find any infirmity in the order
of the ld. CIT(A) who has decided the issue by following the order of the
Tribunal in assessee's own case for assessment year 2007-08. In absence of any
contrary material brought to our notice against the order of the Tribunal, the
order of the ld. CIT(A) on this issue is upheld and the ground raised by the
assessee is dismissed.
25
ITA No.3612/Del/2017 ITA No.3613/Del/2017
41\. In ground no.13 to 13.3, the assessee has challenged the disallowance of
payment of export commission of Rs.3,23,53,741/- holding the same to be
diversion of profits to LG Electronics Korea ('LGEK').
42\. Briefly stated, the facts of the case is that the assessee exports CTVs
to LG Group entities in the Middle- East and South Asian countries and to some
unrelated distributors outside India. LG Electronics Korea ('LGEK') assists
the assessee to increase the export of CTVs through its huge marketing network
across the globe. The assessee pays commission @ 4.50% of the exports of CTVs
made to various entities in Middle-East and South Asian countries. We find the
issue is covered against the assessee by the order of the Tribunal for A.Y.
2007-08 in assessee's own case. Accordingly, these grounds are dismissed.
43\. In grounds no.14 to 14.5, the assessee has challenged the order of the
ld. CIT(A) in making transfer pricing adjustment of Rs.154,86,06,527/-.
44\. Facts of the case, in brief, are that the assessee during the relevant
previous year incurred advertisement and sales promotion expenses (AMP)
expenses aggregating to Rs.288,97,64,000/- (including Rs.5,53,14,216/- towards
contribution in respect of GCC Cricket Sponsorship) for the purpose of it's
business.
45\. Against the aforesaid adjustment made by the TPO, the assessee filed an
appeal before the ld. CIT(A) who sought a report from the TPO for  26 ITA
No.3612/Del/2017 ITA No.3613/Del/2017 benchmarking the international
transaction for assessment year 2005-06 & 2006-07 on the basis of approach
adopted by the TPO in assessment year 2007-
08\. The TPO vide report dated 16.10.2014 proposed to enhance the adjustment
on account of AMP expenses to Rs. 198,50,28,757/- by applying the bright line
test by comparing the AMP/Sales ratio of the assessee at 5.73% as against the
ratio of 1.39% of the comparable companies. The CIT(A), however, disallowed
50% of the expenditure incurred by the assessee on AMP expenses instead of the
expenditure in excess of 1.39% of sales under section 37(1) of the Act on the
ground that such expenditure is in respect of benefits accruing to the
associated enterprises. Accordingly, the CIT(A) enhanced the disallowance on
account of AMP expenses by Rs.112,41,00,189/- by holding as under :-
> "32. As it is not possible exactly to measure the benefit which has accrued
> and arisen to the parent company of the appellant and conversely the
> unnecessary expenditure incurred by the appellant company for the benefit of
> its parent company and because of the complete control of the affairs of the
> appellant by its parent company so much so that the officers of the
> appellant company are invariably the employees of the parent company of the
> appellant and have been deputed, deployed and assigned to run and control
> the appellant for the benefit of the parent company of the appellant; it is
> held that instead of a factor of 1.39%, the 50% of the expenditure incurred
> by the appellant on advertisement, marketing and promotion expenses is in
> respect of benefits accruing to the parent company of the appellant and
> therefore not necessary for the exigencies of the business of the appellant.
> 33\. In view of the above the 50% of the expenditure claimed by the
> appellant for advertisement, marketing and promotional expenses is
> disallowed and added to the income of the appellant."
46\. The ld. counsel for the assessee submitted that the CIT(A) has
confirmed/enhanced the adjustment on account of AMP expenses merely on the
basis of assumption that 50% of the benefits arising from the AMP expenses  27
ITA No.3612/Del/2017 ITA No.3613/Del/2017 incurred by the assessee is in
respect of the benefits accruing to the associated enterprise and that the
associated enterprise has complete control of the affairs of the assessee.
47\. He submitted that the approach of the CIT(A) is not in accordance with
law for the following reasons:
> (a) The assessee has exclusive right to manufacture and sell products
> bearing 'LG' brand in India and the benefit of advertisement and brand
> promotion expenses incurred in India to the assessee in the form of higher
> sale and consequently higher profit.
> (b) The assessee incurs advertisement expenditure to promote its own sales
> and thereby the profits of its own business and not for brand- building of
> other group entity. The direct advantage from promotion of brands in India
> was to the assessee and not to owner of the brand since the said expense
> resulted in increase in sales and consequently profits of the appellant in
> India.
> (c) The advertisement and marketing expenses are required to be incurred to
> survive in a highly competitive market and have direct nexus with the sales
> of products in India.
> (d) The advertisement and selling expenses have been incurred by the
> assessee company only on the products manufactured and sold by the assessee
> in India. The assessee in the advertisements promotes the sale of products
> and not the brand name of the associated enterprise.
> (e) It is a settled proposition of law that no part of any expenditure
> incurred by the assessee wholly and exclusively for its business can  28 ITA
> No.3612/Del/2017 ITA No.3613/Del/2017 be disallowed even if such expenditure
> results in any incidental or indirect benefit to the associated enterprises.
48\. In view of the above, he submitted that sales promotion and advertisement
expenditure is incurred by the appellant wholly and exclusively in connection
with its own business in India and is not at all guided by the alleged motive
of promoting the business interest of its overseas group company. Relying on
various decisions, he submitted that the ld. CIT(A) is not justified in
sustaining the addition. He further submitted that the Tribunal in assessee's
own case for the assessment year 2003-04 deleted similar adjustments made by
the TPO.
49\. The ld. DR on the other hand heavily relied on the order of the ld.
CIT(A).
50\. After hearing both the sides, we find identical issue had come up before
the Tribunal in assessee's own case in the assessment year 2007-08. The
Tribunal vide ITA No.5140/Del/2011 order dated 08.12.2014 has decided the
issue and restored the same to the file of the Assessing Officer/TPO for
deciding the issue afresh in accordance with Special Bench verdict. The
relevant observation of the Tribunal at para 4 reads as under :-
> "4. Ground No.3 is against making of addition towards transfer pricing
> adjustment amounting to ` 1,82,71,11,446/- in relation to the advertisement,
> marketing and sales promotion (AMP) expenses. Here, it is pertinent to
> mention that a Special Bench was constituted on this issue in this very
> appeal. An order dated  29 ITA No.3612/Del/2017 ITA No.3613/Del/2017
> 23.1.2013 has since been passed by the Special Bench as LG Electronics Pvt.
> Ltd. Vs ACIT (2013) 140 ITD 41 (Del) (SB). Two questions were referred to
> the Special Bench. The first question has been answered by holding that the
> transfer pricing adjustment in relation to the AMP expenses incurred by the
> assessee for creating or improving the marketing intangibles for and on
> behalf of its foreign associated enterprises, is permissible. The second
> question as to whether the assessee should have earned a mark-up from its AE
> in respect of such AMP expenses incurred for and on behalf of the AE, has
> also been answered by eventually restoring the matter to the file of TPO for
> de novo adjudication in the light of certain guidelines outlined in the
> order. Now, this Division Bench is bound by the Special bench decision and
> cannot tinker or amend the conclusions so drawn, as was argued by the ld. AR
> in an attempt to persuade us for re-deciding this issue or sending it back
> to the AO/TPO for a fresh decision as per law. In fact, the Special bench
> order, passed in this appeal alone, constitutes an integral part of this
> order. Respectfully following the view taken by the Special Bench, we send
> the matter back to the TPO/AO for deciding it in accordance with the Special
> bench verdict. Accordingly, Ground No. 3 is allowed for statistical
> purposes."
51\. Respectfully following the order of the Tribunal in assessee's own case
for assessment year 2007-08 which has been decided earlier i.e. prior to
assessment years 2005-06 and 2006-07, we deem it proper to restore the issue
to the file of the Assessing Officer/TPO for fresh adjudication of the issue
in the light of the decision of the Tribunal for assessment year 2007-08. The
grounds raised by the assessee are accordingly allowed for statistical
purposes.
52\. Ground no.15 by the assessee reads as under :-
> "15. That the CIT(A) erred on facts and in law in confirming the
> disallowance made by the TPO/AO of Rs.51,244,116 in respect of sponsorship
> payment made to GCC without adjudicating the same in the order. Further, the
> disallowance is confirmed ignoring the fact that the same issue has been
> decided by the Hon'ble ITAT in favour of the Appellant in assessment year
> 2003-04 & 2004-05."
53\. After hearing both the sides, we find this ground was not adjudicated by
the ld. CIT(A). We, therefore, restore the issue to the file of the ld. CIT(A)
with  30 ITA No.3612/Del/2017 ITA No.3613/Del/2017 a direction to adjudicate
the issue as per fact and law after giving due opportunity of being heard to
the assessee. We hold and direct accordingly. The ground raised by the
assessee is allowed for statistical purposes.
54\. Ground no.16 does not require any adjudication since the issue has
already been restored to the file of the Assessing Officer/TPO.
55\. Grounds no.16.1 to 16.3 were not pressed by the ld. counsel for the
assessee for which ld. DR has no objection. Accordingly, these grounds are
dismissed.
56\. Ground no.17 relating to penalty proceedings u/s 271(1)(c) being
premature at this juncture is dismissed.
ITA No.3613/Del/2017 (A.Y. 2006-07) :
57\. Ground no.1 being general in nature is dismissed.
58\. In ground no.2 to 2.11, the assessee has challenged the order of the ld.
CIT(A) in making disallowance of Rs.210,22,81,553/- u/s 40(a)(ia) by enhancing
income u/s 251(1)(a) of the I.T. Act.
59\. After hearing both the sides, we find these grounds are identical to
grounds no.2 to 2.11 in ITA No.3612/Del/2017. We have already decided the
issue and the grounds raised by the assessee have been allowed. Following
similar reasoning, the above grounds by the assessee are allowed.  31
ITA No.3612/Del/2017 ITA No.3613/Del/2017
60\. Ground no.3 by the assessee relates to sales-tax subsidy of
Rs.59,17,48,717/- as taxable revenue receipt as against capital receipt
treated by the assessee.
61\. After hearing both the sides, we find this ground is identical to ground
no.3 in ITA No.3612/Del/2017. We have already decided the issue and the ground
has been dismissed. Following similar reasoning this ground by the assessee is
dismissed.
62\. Ground no.4 relates to disallowance of provision for service warranty
amounting to Rs.5,05,62,710/-.
63\. After hearing both the sides, we find this ground is identical to ground
no.4 in ITA No.3612/Del/2017. We have already decided the issue and the ground
raised by the assessee has been allowed. Following similar reasoning this
ground raised by the assessee is allowed.
64\. Ground no.5 relates to disallowance of royalty amounting to
Rs.107,47,71,000/- paid to LG Electronics Inc. Korea treating the same as
capital expenditure.
65\. After hearing both the sides, we find this ground is identical to ground
no.5 in ITA No.3612/Del/2017. We have already decided the issue and the ground
raised by the assessee has been allowed. Following similar reasoning this
ground raised by the assessee is allowed.
32
ITA No.3612/Del/2017 ITA No.3613/Del/2017
66\. Ground no.6 relates to disallowance of export commission of
Rs.9,91,57,209/-.
67\. After hearing both the sides, we find this ground is identical to ground
no.6 in ITA No.3612/Del/2017. We have already decided the issue against the
assessee. Following similar reasoning, this ground raised by the assessee is
dismissed.
68\. Ground no.7 relates to disallowance of claim of deduction u/s 80JJAA
amounting to Rs.1,81,57,110/-.
69\. After hearing both the sides, we find this ground is identical to ground
no.7 in ITA No.3612/Del/2017. We have already decided the issue against the
assessee. Following similar reasoning, this ground raised by the assessee is
dismissed.
70\. Ground no.8 and 9 being general in nature are dismissed.
71\. In ground no.10 to 10.3, the assessee has challenged the order of the ld.
CIT(A) in holding the arm's length rate for international transaction of
payment of royalty at 4.05% as against royalty paid @ 5% by the assessee.
72\. After hearing both the sides, we find the above grounds are identical to
ground no.12 to 12.3 in ITA No.3612/Del/2017. We have already decided the
issue against the assessee. Following similar reasoning, these grounds raised
by the assessee are dismissed.
33
ITA No.3612/Del/2017 ITA No.3613/Del/2017
73\. In ground no.11 to 11.3, the assessee has challenged the order of the ld.
CIT(A) in making transfer pricing adjustment of Rs.9,91,57,209/- in respect of
international transaction of payment of export commission holding that such
expenditure was not necessary for the business of the assessee.
74\. After hearing both the sides, we find this grounds are identical to
ground no.13 to 13.3 in ITA No.3612/Del/2017. We have already decided the
issue in preceding paragraph and the grounds raised by the assessee has been
dismissed. Following similar reasoning, these grounds raised by the assessee
are dismissed.
75\. In ground no.12 to 12.5, the assessee has challenged the order of the ld.
CIT(A) in making transfer pricing adjustment amounting to Rs.157,84,56,692/-
in relation to AMP expenses.
76\. After hearing both the sides, we find the above grounds are identical to
ground no.14 to 14.5 in ITA No.3612/Del/2017. We have already decided the
issue and the matter has been restored to the file of the Assessing Officer
with certain directions. Following similar reasoning, these grounds raised by
the assessee are allowed for statistical purposes.
77\. In ground no.13, the assessee has challenged the order of the ld. CIT(A)
in confirming the disallowance of Rs.77,24,028/- in respect of sponsorship
payment made to GCC. Since the issue was not adjudicated by ld. CIT(A),
therefore, following our observation in ground no.15 in ITA No.3612/Del/2017,
34 ITA No.3612/Del/2017 ITA No.3613/Del/2017 we restore this issue to the file
of the ld. CIT(A) with a direction to decide the issue after giving due
opportunity of being heard to the assessee.
78\. Grounds no.14 to 14.3 was not pressed by the ld. counsel for the assessee
for which ld. DR has no objection. Accordingly the above grounds are dismissed
as not pressed.
79\. Ground no.15 relating to penalty proceedings u/s 271(1)(c) being
premature at this juncture is dismissed.
80\. In the result, both the appeals filed by the assessee are partly allowed
for statistical purposes.
Order pronounced in the open Court on this 18th day of July, 2018.
                  Sd/-                                              Sd/-
             (KULDIP SINGH)                                  (R. K. PANDA)
           JUDICIAL MEMBER                               ACCOUNTANT MEMBER
    Dated: 18-07-2018.
    Sujeet
    Copy of order to: -
           1)       The   Appellant
           2)       The   Respondent
           3)       The   CIT
           4)       The   CIT(A)
           5)       The   DR, I.T.A.T., New Delhi
                                                                    By Order
    //True Copy//
                                                                Assistant Registrar
                                                                ITAT, New Delhi
79\. Ground no.15 relating to penalty proceedings u/s 271(1)(c) being
premature at this juncture is dismissed.
80\. In the result, both the appeals filed by the assessee are partly allowed
for statistical purposes.
Order pronounced in the open Court on this 18th day of July, 2018.
                  Sd/-                                              Sd/-
             (KULDIP SINGH)                                  (R. K. PANDA)
           JUDICIAL MEMBER                               ACCOUNTANT MEMBER
    Dated: 18-07-2018.
    Sujeet
    Copy of order to: -
           1)       The   Appellant
           2)       The   Respondent
           3)       The   CIT
           4)       The   CIT(A)
           5)       The   DR, I.T.A.T., New Delhi
          Department by                  :     Shri H. K. Choudhary, CIT-DR
          Date of hearing                :     19-04-2018
          Date of pronouncement          :     18-07-2018
                                     ORDER
PER R. K. PANDA, AM :
The above two appeals filed by the assessee are directed against the common
order dated 31.03.2017 of the CIT(A)- I, Noida, Uttar Pradesh relating to
assessment years 2005-06 & 2006-07 respectively. Since common grounds are
involved in both the appeals, therefore, these were heard together and are
being disposed of by this common order for the sake of convenience.  2
ITA No.3612/Del/2017 ITA No.3613/Del/2017 ITA No.3612/Del/2017 (A.Y. 2005-06)
:
2\. Facts of the case, in brief, are that the assessee is a private limited
company engaged in trading, manufacturing, marketing and sale of electronics,
home appliances, IT products, supply and installation of WLL systems,
terminals and GSM Mobile handsets and maintenance, repair and servicing of
CDMA networks, CDMA/GSM terminals and mobile handsets. It filed its return of
income on 29.10.2005 declaring total income of Rs.1,52,98,08,547/-.
Subsequently, the assessee filed a revised return declaring total income of
Rs.1,02,78,01,120/- after claiming the receipt of Rs.57,71,79,709/- from sales
79\. Ground no.15 relating to penalty proceedings u/s 271(1)(c) being
premature at this juncture is dismissed.
80\. In the result, both the appeals filed by the assessee are partly allowed
for statistical purposes.
Order pronounced in the open Court on this 18th day of July, 2018.
                  Sd/-                                              Sd/-
             (KULDIP SINGH)                                  (R. K. PANDA)
           JUDICIAL MEMBER                               ACCOUNTANT MEMBER
    Dated: 18-07-2018.
    Sujeet
    Copy of order to: -
           1)       The   Appellant
           2)       The   Respondent
           3)       The   CIT
           4)       The   CIT(A)
           5)       The   DR, I.T.A.T., New Delhi
          Department by                  :     Shri H. K. Choudhary, CIT-DR
          Date of hearing                :     19-04-2018
          Date of pronouncement          :     18-07-2018
                                     ORDER
PER R. K. PANDA, AM :
The above two appeals filed by the assessee are directed against the common
order dated 31.03.2017 of the CIT(A)- I, Noida, Uttar Pradesh relating to
assessment years 2005-06 & 2006-07 respectively. Since common grounds are
involved in both the appeals, therefore, these were heard together and are
being disposed of by this common order for the sake of convenience.  2
ITA No.3612/Del/2017 ITA No.3613/Del/2017 ITA No.3612/Del/2017 (A.Y. 2005-06)
:
2\. Facts of the case, in brief, are that the assessee is a private limited
company engaged in trading, manufacturing, marketing and sale of electronics,
home appliances, IT products, supply and installation of WLL systems,
terminals and GSM Mobile handsets and maintenance, repair and servicing of
CDMA networks, CDMA/GSM terminals and mobile handsets. It filed its return of
income on 29.10.2005 declaring total income of Rs.1,52,98,08,547/-.
Subsequently, the assessee filed a revised return declaring total income of
Rs.1,02,78,01,120/- after claiming the receipt of Rs.57,71,79,709/- from sales
79\. Ground no.15 relating to penalty proceedings u/s 271(1)(c) being
premature at this juncture is dismissed.
80\. In the result, both the appeals filed by the assessee are partly allowed
for statistical purposes.
Order pronounced in the open Court on this 18th day of July, 2018.
                  Sd/-                                              Sd/-
             (KULDIP SINGH)                                  (R. K. PANDA)
           JUDICIAL MEMBER                               ACCOUNTANT MEMBER
    Dated: 18-07-2018.
    Sujeet
    Copy of order to: -
           1)       The   Appellant
           2)       The   Respondent
           3)       The   CIT
           4)       The   CIT(A)
           5)       The   DR, I.T.A.T., New Delhi
          Department by                  :     Shri H. K. Choudhary, CIT-DR
          Date of hearing                :     19-04-2018
          Date of pronouncement          :     18-07-2018
                                     ORDER
PER R. K. PANDA, AM :
The above two appeals filed by the assessee are directed against the common
order dated 31.03.2017 of the CIT(A)- I, Noida, Uttar Pradesh relating to
assessment years 2005-06 & 2006-07 respectively. Since common grounds are
involved in both the appeals, therefore, these were heard together and are
being disposed of by this common order for the sake of convenience.  2
ITA No.3612/Del/2017 ITA No.3613/Del/2017 ITA No.3612/Del/2017 (A.Y. 2005-06)
:
2\. Facts of the case, in brief, are that the assessee is a private limited
company engaged in trading, manufacturing, marketing and sale of electronics,
home appliances, IT products, supply and installation of WLL systems,
terminals and GSM Mobile handsets and maintenance, repair and servicing of
CDMA networks, CDMA/GSM terminals and mobile handsets. It filed its return of
income on 29.10.2005 declaring total income of Rs.1,52,98,08,547/-.
Subsequently, the assessee filed a revised return declaring total income of
Rs.1,02,78,01,120/- after claiming the receipt of Rs.57,71,79,709/- from sales
tax department as capital receipts. Since the assessee has undertaken certain
international transactions with its AEs, the Assessing Officer referred the
matter to the TPO u/s 92CA(1) of the I.T. Act. The TPO vide order dated
31.10.2008 suggested upward adjustment of Rs.5,12,44,116/- being the arm's
length price of the international transactions of contribution towards World
Cup Tournament and an amount of Rs.18,66,31,111/- being the arm's length price
of the reimbursement of advertising, marketing and sales promotion expenses.
The Assessing Officer completed the assessment u/s 143(3) on 30.12.2008
determining the total income of the assessee at Rs.3,34,18,55,880/- after
allowing deduction of Rs.1,21,50,770/- u/s 80JJAA of the I.T. Act, 1961 as
against Rs.2,52,29,510/- claimed by the assessee in the original return of  3
79\. Ground no.15 relating to penalty proceedings u/s 271(1)(c) being
premature at this juncture is dismissed.
80\. In the result, both the appeals filed by the assessee are partly allowed
for statistical purposes.
Order pronounced in the open Court on this 18th day of July, 2018.
                  Sd/-                                              Sd/-
             (KULDIP SINGH)                                  (R. K. PANDA)
           JUDICIAL MEMBER                               ACCOUNTANT MEMBER
    Dated: 18-07-2018.
    Sujeet
    Copy of order to: -
           1)       The   Appellant
           2)       The   Respondent
           3)       The   CIT
           4)       The   CIT(A)
           5)       The   DR, I.T.A.T., New Delhi
          Department by                  :     Shri H. K. Choudhary, CIT-DR
          Date of hearing                :     19-04-2018
          Date of pronouncement          :     18-07-2018
                                     ORDER
PER R. K. PANDA, AM :
The above two appeals filed by the assessee are directed against the common
order dated 31.03.2017 of the CIT(A)- I, Noida, Uttar Pradesh relating to
assessment years 2005-06 & 2006-07 respectively. Since common grounds are
involved in both the appeals, therefore, these were heard together and are
being disposed of by this common order for the sake of convenience.  2
ITA No.3612/Del/2017 ITA No.3613/Del/2017 ITA No.3612/Del/2017 (A.Y. 2005-06)
:
2\. Facts of the case, in brief, are that the assessee is a private limited
company engaged in trading, manufacturing, marketing and sale of electronics,
home appliances, IT products, supply and installation of WLL systems,
terminals and GSM Mobile handsets and maintenance, repair and servicing of
CDMA networks, CDMA/GSM terminals and mobile handsets. It filed its return of
income on 29.10.2005 declaring total income of Rs.1,52,98,08,547/-.
Subsequently, the assessee filed a revised return declaring total income of
Rs.1,02,78,01,120/- after claiming the receipt of Rs.57,71,79,709/- from sales
tax department as capital receipts. Since the assessee has undertaken certain
international transactions with its AEs, the Assessing Officer referred the
matter to the TPO u/s 92CA(1) of the I.T. Act. The TPO vide order dated
31.10.2008 suggested upward adjustment of Rs.5,12,44,116/- being the arm's
length price of the international transactions of contribution towards World
Cup Tournament and an amount of Rs.18,66,31,111/- being the arm's length price
of the reimbursement of advertising, marketing and sales promotion expenses.
The Assessing Officer completed the assessment u/s 143(3) on 30.12.2008
determining the total income of the assessee at Rs.3,34,18,55,880/- after
allowing deduction of Rs.1,21,50,770/- u/s 80JJAA of the I.T. Act, 1961 as
against Rs.2,52,29,510/- claimed by the assessee in the original return of  3
79\. Ground no.15 relating to penalty proceedings u/s 271(1)(c) being
premature at this juncture is dismissed.
80\. In the result, both the appeals filed by the assessee are partly allowed
for statistical purposes.
Order pronounced in the open Court on this 18th day of July, 2018.
                  Sd/-                                              Sd/-
             (KULDIP SINGH)                                  (R. K. PANDA)
           JUDICIAL MEMBER                               ACCOUNTANT MEMBER
    Dated: 18-07-2018.
    Sujeet
    Copy of order to: -
           1)       The   Appellant
           2)       The   Respondent
           3)       The   CIT
           4)       The   CIT(A)
           5)       The   DR, I.T.A.T., New Delhi
