Delhi High Court
Apl Apollo Tubes Ltd. vs Surya Roshni Limited on 3 January, 2017
    $~
    *     IN THE HIGH COURT OF DELHI AT NEW DELHI
                                      Judgment reserved on:    21.12.2016
    %                                 Judgment delivered on:    03.01.2017
    +     I.A. No.3378 /2016 in CS(Comm) 192/2016
          APL APOLLO TUBES LTD
                                                                    ..... Plaintiff
                             Through:      Mr. Sandeep Sethi, Sr. Adv. with
                                           Ms.Leena Sehgal and Mr. Rajat Jain,
                                           Advocates.
                             versus
          SURYA ROSHNI LIMITED
                                                                  ..... Defendant
                             Through:      Ms. Prathiba Singh, Sr. Adv. with
                                           Mr.Sanjay Aggarwal and Mr. Lalit
                                           Vohra, Advocates.
          CORAM:
          HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE VIPIN SANGHI
prior art.
63\. It is well-settled that a mere registration of the design does not
entitle the registrant of the design to claim protection and it is always open
to the defendant to plead and set up a defence of lack of novelty or eye
appeal and of existence of prior art (see Metro Plastic Industries (Regd.)
(supra)). In my view, reliance placed by Mr. Sethi on the Eicher Goodearth
Pvt. Ltd. (supra) is of no avail, since I am of the view that there is no
appeal to the eye in respect of the plaintiff's design and also in view of the
fact that there is no CS(Comm)192/2016 Page 36 of 37 novelty in the
plaintiff's design as the same existed in prior art. Reliance placed on Bhatia
Enterprises (supra) is of no avail since the defendant has been able to show,
prima facie, the publication of the prior art many years before the
registration of the plaintiff's design.
64\. For all the aforesaid reasons, I find no merit in the present application
and dismiss the same with costs of Rs.50,000/- to the defendant. It is,
however, made clear that the observations made by me in this order are founded
          HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE VIPIN SANGHI
                                JUDGMENT
VIPIN SANGHI, J.
1\. By this order, I proceed to dispose of the aforesaid application filed by
the plaintiff to seek ad-interim injunction against the defendant under Order
39 Rule 1 & 2 CPC.
CS(Comm)192/2016 Page 1 of 37
2\. The plaintiff has filed the present suit alleging infringement of the
plaintiff's registered design in respect of a Hollow Section Pipe - which the
plaintiff claims, as novel and original. The plaintiff claims that novelty and
originality in the Hollow Section Pipe designed by the plaintiff resides in
its shape and configuration which gives the Hollow Section Pipe an original,
unique, new and distinctive configuration, look and feature, which was not
available in the market earlier and the same was designed and introduced for
the first time by the plaintiff. The plaintiff claims that its original and
novel design was not published in India or in any other country, and it was
not disclosed to the public anywhere in or outside India prior to the date of
filing of the plaintiff's application for registration of its design. The
plaintiff claims that the novelty and originality of the design is as a result
of research and development done by its designing team. The design of the
plaintiff has special ocular features which appeal to the eye, because of its
shape and configuration.
3\. The said Hollow Section Pipe is claimed by the plaintiff to be in use in
amusement parks, playground equipment, signages, leisure equipment, furniture,
transport industries, ceiling support systems, support structures,
prefabricated structures etc. It is used as a preferred alternative for rolled
products like angles, channels and beams. It is also used for fluid and wire
conveyance and can also be used as a door frame.
4\. The plaintiff applied for and got registered its design under the Designs
Act, 2000 (hereinafter "the Act") in classes 23-01 and 25-99. The applications
were made on 25.07.2014 and registration was granted in respect of the Hollow
Section Pipes in classes 23-01 vide design registration CS(Comm)192/2016 Page
2 of 37 no.264233, and in class 25-99 vide design registration no.264234. Post
registration of the aforesaid designs, the plaintiff claims continuous
manufacture and sale of Hollow Section Pipes under the registered designs. The
plaintiff claims that its Hollow Section Pipes under the registered design
have built up handsome sales over a short span of time. From sales of Rs.20
lacs in July 2014, the same have arisen to over Rs.2 crores in January 2016.
5\. The defendant is alleged to have knowingly and malafidely infringed the
plaintiff's aforesaid registered designs in Hollow Section Pipe. The defendant
filed two applications for cancellation of the plaintiff's registered designs
on 05.02.2016. Upon receipt of notice thereof on 08.02.2016, the plaintiff
learnt that the defendant had adopted same/ similar designs as that of the
plaintiff. The plaintiff states that the defendants have, without waiting for
the outcome of the cancellation proceedings initiated before the Controller of
Designs, Kolkata, copied all the essential and distinguishing features of the
plaintiff's registered design in Hollow Section Pipes manufactured by it and
started manufacturing and selling its infringing products. The plaintiff
submits that it became aware of the actual presence of the defendant's
infringing Hollow Section Pipe on 19th February, 2016 when the same became
visible in the market.
6\. The plaintiff has set out in the plaint itself, the pictures of the
products of the plaintiff and the defendant to compare the said product as
they appear visually. The pictures are extracted herein below:
CS(Comm)192/2016 Page 3 of 37
7\. In the suit, the plaintiff seeks a decree of permanent injunction to
restrain the defendant from infringing or using, in any manner, the
plaintiff's registered design bearing nos.264233 in class 23-01 and no.264234
in class 25-99 and in relation to Hollow Section Pipes. Other consequential
reliefs are also prayed for, apart from damages of Rs.1.05 crores along with
interest. Along with the suit, the plaintiff has filed the present interim
application under Order 39 Rule 1 & 2 CPC to seek ad-interim orders of
injunction against the defendant.
8\. When the suit and application came up before the Court for the first time
on 14.03.2016, the defendant appeared as caveator. Summons and notice were
accepted by the defendant in Court and time was granted for filing the written
statement/ reply and documents by the defendant and for completion of other
pleadings. Thereafter, arguments were heard on the interim application and
orders reserved on 21.04.2016. Since the judgment could not be pronounced
earlier, to recapitulate the submissions, the matter CS(Comm)192/2016 Page 4
of 37 was fixed on 21.12.2016. Learned counsels were heard and judgment
reserved.
9\. The defendant has filed its written statement. The defendant claims to be
engaged in the business of manufacturing and marketing electric, electronic
and other allied goods, steel pipes, steel tubes etc. The defendant claims
that it is engaged in manufacture of Hollow Section Pipe as well, which are
being marked under its brand SURYA. The defendant avers that the impugned
design registrations have been obtained by the plaintiff in respect of pre-
published designs. The defence is premised on the existence of prior art in
respect of the designs in question. The defendant also claims that the designs
of the plaintiff have no design features which are appealing to the eye. The
said designs are common to the trade, and many other parties are using it. The
defendant has filed along with the written statement, documents in support of
its plea that various Hollow Section Pipe had been produced by other producers
and manufacturers having a similar design as that claimed by the plaintiff.
10\. The defendant avers that the impugned designs of the plaintiff are not
registerable under the Act, as they are not original or novel and they have
already been public in India and other countries. The designs got registered
by the plaintiff are functional and generic in nature and not solely judged by
the eye. They did not have any aesthetic value and do not qualify as "design"
within the meaning of Section 2(d) of the Act. The impugned registered designs
are liable to cancellation under Section 19 and 31 of the Act.
CS(Comm)192/2016 Page 5 of 37
11\. The defendant avers that earlier, identical frames were easily available
in wood. However, on account of scarcity of wood, innovations were done to
replace wood with concrete and metal for purpose of manufacture of door
frames. The same resulted in development and manufacture of Hollow Section
Pipes, some of which are similar to the generic form of a door frame. The
defendant has set out in the written statement, several manufacturers/ dealers
who have been operating since 1962 and are dealing in hollow metal door
frames. The said tabulation reads as follows:
    Country        Manufacturer/ Dealer Operating Since          Dealing in
    India          Kutty's - The Door 1962                       Hardwood Door
                   Experts                                       Frames
    India          Sehgal Doors         1965                     Hollow     Metal
                                                                 Door Frames
    USA            HMX, LLC                  1989
    USA            Ceco Door - ASSA          1953
                   ABLOY
    USA            Karpen Steel              1977
    USA            Stiles Custom Metal,
                   Inc.
    USA            Calder     Door     &     1950
                   Specialty Co.
    USA            Timely Industries
    USA            Captive Wood Doors
    USA            Specialty    Wholesale    1969
                   Supply
    UK             Door Fix Ring-Guard       1979
    Australia      Spencer Doors
12\. The defendant further avers that several major trade associations and
non-profit organizations have published the designs in question in
publications of industry standards and guidelines for manufacture of door
CS(Comm)192/2016 Page 6 of 37 frames, which establishes prior art in the
field. The details of the same are disclosed as follows:
    Country       Organization/          Standards          or Year             of
                  Association            Guidelines            publication
    USA           Steel Door Institute   ANSI/SDI A250.11- 2012
                                         2012
                                         "Recommended
                                         Erection Instructions
                                         for Steel Frames"
    USA           Steel Door Institute   "Drawings"
13\. The defendant avers that various manufacturers of Hollow Section Pipe are
making the goods in question for the last about 50 years. The alleged designs
for Hollow Section Pipe have been published in India since 1960s i.e. prior to
the date of the registration of the plaintiffs design on 25.07.2014. The
designs of the plaintiff are thus liable to be cancelled. The defendant
further avers that there is no element of innovation, novelty or originality
in the plaintiff's registered design. Design means only the feature of shape,
configuration, pattern, ornament or composition of lines or colours applied to
any article whether in two dimensional or three dimensional or in both forms,
which in the finished article appeal to and are judged solely by the eye.
14\. The submission of learned senior counsel for the plaintiff, Mr. Sandeep
Sethi is that earlier, door frames were being manufactured in wood. He submits
that the plaintiff was the first to start using Hollow Section Pipes for
manufacture of door frames also known as "Chowkhat". He submits that the
originality and novelty of the plaintiff's design resides in the shape and
CS(Comm)192/2016 Page 7 of 37 configuration inasmuch, as, the product of the
plaintiff manufactured with the registered design has a flat base/ back which
is affixed in the cement motor wall or is screwed on to the surface where the
door frame is to be created/ installed. He submits that the Hollow Section
Pipes are also used for laying cables.
15\. Mr. Sethi places reliance on Bharat Glass Works Ltd. v. Gopal Glass Works
Ltd., (2008) 10 SCC 657 to submit that the change of material i.e. from wood
to hollow metal frame would also tantamount to a new or original design in
respect of the new material/ substance. In this case, the respondent had
imported rollers from a German company. The said rollers could be used for
producing designs not only on glass sheets, but also on plastic, rexine and
leather. The respondent had used the German imported rollers to produce
designs on glass sheets. The appellant before the Supreme Court submitted that
the designs were not new or original, as they had been used on the rollers.
The Supreme Court rejected the argument of the appellant that the design of
the respondent was not new or original, as there was no evidence to show that
the design which was reproduced on glass sheets was ever produced by any other
agency on glass sheets. The Supreme Court observed "Therefore the expression
"new or original" in this context has to be construed that whether this design
has ever been reproduced by any other company on the glass sheet or not".
16\. The Supreme Court further observed:
> "32. There is no evidence whatsoever produced by the complainant either
> before the Assistant Controller or before any other forum to show that this
> very design which has been reproduced on the glass sheet was manufactured
> anywhere in CS(Comm)192/2016 Page 8 of 37 the market in India or in the
> United Kingdom. There is no evidence to show that these rollers which were
> manufactured or originally designed by the Company were marketed by this
> Company to be reproduced on glass sheets in India or even in the United
> Kingdom. This proprietorship of this design was acquired by this respondent
> from the German Company and there is no evidence on record to show that
> these rollers were used for designing them on the glass sheets in Germany or
> in India or in the United Kingdom.
> 33\. What is required to be registered is a design which is sought to be
> reproduced on an article. This was the roller which was designed and if it
> is reproduced on an article it will give such visual feature to the design.
> No evidence was produced by the complainant before the Assistant Controller
> that anywhere in any part of the world or in India this design was
> reproduced on glass or it was registered anywhere in India or in any part of
> the world. The German Company only manufactured the roller and this roller
> could have been used for bringing a particular design on the glass, rexine
> or leather but we are concerned here with the reproduction of the design
> from the roller on glass which has been registered before the registering
> authority. Therefore, this design which is to be reproduced on the article
> i.e. glass has been registered for the first time in India and the
> proprietary right was acquired from the German Company. We have gone through
> the letter of the German Company and it nowhere says that this was
> reproduced on a glass sheet. No evidence was produced by the complainant
> that this design was reproduced on a glass sheet in Germany or in India. The
> contents of the letter are very clear. It shows that it was designed in 1992
> and was marketed in 1993. But there is no evidence to show that this design
> was reproduced on glass sheet anywhere in Germany".
17\. Mr. Sethi submits that the plaintiffs registered design is that of a
hollow product, whereas a wooden door frame is not hollow. He further submits
that the earlier designs in metal sheet did not have a bottom/back
CS(Comm)192/2016 Page 9 of 37 surface like that of the plaintiff. He submits
that the Hollow Section Pipes in prior art are a result of two steel/metal
frames being welded, whereas the plaintiff's Hollow Section Pipes are a bereft
of any welded joints and when seen as a whole, give originality and novelty to
the design. He submits that in these circumstances, the plaintiff is entitled
to protection of its registered design.
18\. On the other hand, Ms. Pratibha Singh, learned senior counsel for the
defendant argues that the plaintiff admits that the design in question,
admittedly, is known to be in use in wood. She submits that, according to the
plaintiff, change of material amounts to change in design. She disputes this
proposition canvassed by the plaintiff. She also disputes the plaintiff's
claim that the flat portion/ base did not exist in prior art. While relying
upon the definition of the expression "design" contained in section 2(d) of
the Act, which "means only the features of shape, configuration, pattern,
ornament or composition of lines or colours applied to any article whether in
two dimensional or three dimensional or in both forms ... ..., which in the
finished article appeal to and are judged solely by the eye", she submits that
any functional element/aspect of the article is not protected by design law.
19\. Ms. Singh has referred to a large number of documents which are brochures
published by other manufacturers, claiming existence of prior art in respect
of the designs in question. The first such publication is in relation to
"Calder Door" which sells and supplies metal doors and frames. Specific
reference has been made to the following door frame of "Calder Door":
CS(Comm)192/2016 Page 10 of 37
20\. "Calder Door" has been in the business since 1930s. Reference is also
made to the publication of "Ceco Door", which is also claimed to be one of the
leading manufacturers of steel doors and frames for commercial, industrial and
institutional construction. Particular reference is made to the following
design of "Ceco Door":
21\. Reference is also made to the following designs of "Ceco Door":
CS(Comm)192/2016 Page 11 of 37
22\. Ms. Singh submits that the aforementioned design also has a flat base/
back which the plaintiff claims to be original and a novel feature of its door
frame. She points out that the said publication is dated 08.01.2001. Reference
is also made to a publication of "Door Fix", which is also similarly engaged
in manufacture of steel door frames and particularly to the following design:
Double Rebate Standard Profile Wrap Around It is pointed out that the said
publication dates back to 29.03.2001.
CS(Comm)192/2016 Page 12 of 37
23\. Reference is also made to the publication of "Karpen Steel" and, in
particular, to the following design:
Sub-Block This drawing is dated 29.03.2001.
24\. Reference is also made to "Kutty's Door Frames", and in particular the
following:
25\. She also refers to the publication of "Saraswati Steel Tubes", Faridabad
and, in particular, to their following design of Double Door Frame pipe under
the category Steel Pipes:
CS(Comm)192/2016 Page 13 of 37
26\. Ms. Singh also relies upon the publication of "Sehgal & Sehgal
Industries", which is engaged in the manufacture of press steel doors and
window frames, apart from hollow metal door frames since 1965. Reference is
made to the 'Standard Profiles' published by "Sehgal & Sehgal Industries",
which include the following:
27\. She submits that the Standard Profile also has a base/ back which is
claimed to be original and novel by the plaintiff. She also refers to the
following design of "Sehgal & Sehgal Industries' in relation to hollow steel
door frames:
CS(Comm)192/2016 Page 14 of 37
28\. She also refers to a publication of "Specialty Wholesale Supply (SWS)',
USA and, in particular, to their following "Primed Double Rabetted Jamb",
which also is similar to the registered design of the plaintiff:
29\. Similarly, she has placed reliance on the publication of "Spence Doors",
Victoria in relation to their metal hollow frames for doors and in particular
to the following design:
CS(Comm)192/2016 Page 15 of 37
30\. In relation to the aforesaid design, she points out that the same also
has a base just like the plaintiffs and the defendants product, which is
clearly visible and evident from the fact that on the said base, screw/ rivets
have been affixed.
31\. She also refers to the American National Standard Recommended Erection
Instructions for steel frames as approved on 10.06.2011, which contains the
following designs:
32\. She also refers to the publication of "Styles", USA which publishes to
design of the hollow metal window/ door frames and contains the following
publications:
CS(Comm)192/2016 Page 16 of 37
33\. The defendant has also filed on record the publication of "Fleming Steel
Door and Frames", which contains the following published design:
CS(Comm)192/2016 Page 17 of 37
34\. She submits that the Bureau of Indian Standards (BIS) has also published
the specifications of steel door frame in May 2003, wherein the similar design
has been published which is as follows:
35\. Ms. Singh submits that there is no originality in the design of the
plaintiff. The expression "original" is defined in section 2(g) in relation to
a design to mean "originating from the author of such design and includes the
cases which though old in themselves yet are new in their application". In
relation to the hollow metal frames for doors and windows, there is no
originality in the designs of the plaintiff as demonstrated by the defendant.
The application of the design is also not new inasmuch, as, the same designs
have been used in relation to hollow metal frames for doors and windows in the
past.
36\. She also refers to section 4(a) of the Act to submit that a design which
is not new or original shall not be registered. She submits that the designs
of the plaintiff are, therefore, not registerable at all and, since the same
have been wrongly registered, the registrations are liable to be cancelled
under section 19 of the Act, for which the defendants application is already
CS(Comm)192/2016 Page 18 of 37 pending. Ms. Singh specifically relies upon
clauses (b) and (c) of sub section 1 of Section 19 of the Act. Section 19
reads as follows:
> 19\. Cancellation of registration.-
> (1) Any person interested may present a petition for the cancellation of the
> registration of a design at any time after the registration of the design,
> to the Controller on any of the following grounds, namely:-
> (a).........
> (b) that it has been published in India or in any other country prior to the
> date of registration; or
> (c) that the design is not a new or original design.
> 37\. She submits that the designs of the plaintiff are not registerable also
> on account of the fact that the same had been disclosed to the public in
> India as well as in other countries by publication in tangible form by use,
> and in other ways, prior to the date of filing of the plaintiffs application
> for registration (section 4(b)), and the plaintiffs designs are not
> significantly distinguishable from known designs or combination of known
> designs (section 4(c)).
38\. Ms. Singh submits that merely because the Hollow Section Pipe of the
plaintiff is not welded, whereas some of those in prior art are welded makes
no difference. Ms. Singh submits that the test to ascertain whether a feature
of a shape/configuration etc. applied to an article qualifies as a design or
not is to see how it would be "judged solely by the eye" in the finished
article.
CS(Comm)192/2016 Page 19 of 37
Whether the Hollow Section Pipe is made as a single piece, or is a result of
welding does not change the design since the features of shape, configuration
does not change by adoption of one or the other process of making the Hollow
Section Pipe. She submits that what is to be seen by the naked eye is the
front portion of the Hollow Section Pipe, which would be visible after its
affixation, and not the base or back of the hollow section since it would not
be visible after it is fixed.
39\. Ms. Singh submits that there is nothing appealing to the eye in the
plaintiff's design. She submits that such a design is not capable of
protection. In this regard, she has placed reliance on the decision of House
of Lords in AMP Incorporated v. Utilux Proprietary Limited, (1972) RPC 103,
wherein the House of Lords observed:
> "... ... There must be a blend of industrial efficiency with visual appeal.
> If the shape is not there to appeal to the eye but solely to make the
> article work then this provision excludes it from the statutory protection".
> (emphasis supplied)
40\. She submits that the House of Lords accepted the submission of the
respondent, viz:
> i) that the designs contained no features (applied by any individual process
> or means) which, in the finished article, appeal to and are judged solely by
> the eye, and;
> ii) that even if the designs contained any such features they were methods
> or principles of construction, or were features of shape or CS(Comm)192/2016
> Page 20 of 37 configuration which were dictated solely by the function which
> the articles to be made in that shape or configuration has to perform.
41\. The House of Lords further observed:
> "Mr. Collier very fairly acknowledged that no sort of artistic conception
> was involved in what they devised. All that they set out to do was to
> produce "the terminal that would do the job". He agreed that customers who
> bought electric terminals did not buy "on appearance but on performance and
> delivery and price". What Hoovers wanted was something "that would do the
> job for them". The terminals would have to be of the "flag" type, and would
> have to fit within the space available and would have to have a conductor
> channel capable of accommodating the three sizes of insulation diameters of
> the conductor wires".
> "The question is raised as to the sense in which the features in a finished
> article are to appeal to and are to be judged solely by the eye. I think
> that it is clear that the particular feature which is in question or under
> consideration must be seen when the finished article is seen. But the words
> of the definition point, in my view, to considerations other than that of
> merely being visible. The phrases "appeal to" and "judged solely by the eye"
> denote features which will or may influence choice or selection. The eye
> concerned will be the eye, not of the Court, but of the person who may be
> deciding whether or not to acquire the finished article possessing the
> feature in question. This does not mean that the "appeal" or the attraction
> must be to an aesthetic or artistic sense - though is some cases it may be.
> The features may be such that they gain the favour of or appeal to some
> while meeting with the disfavour of others. Beyond being merely visible the
> feature must have some individual characteristic. It must be calculated to
> attract the attention of the beholder. Thus Lord Avonside in one case (G.A.
> Harvey & Co. (London) v. Secure Fittings Ltd. 91996) RPC 515 said that for a
> design to appeal it "must be noticeable and have some perceptible appearance
> of an individual character".
In the same case he referred to what had been constructed as being "of a
distinctive shape or configuration which appeals to CS(Comm)192/2016 Page 21
of 37 the eye and that shape or configuration is an addition to or
embellishment of the fundamental form of such a unit and is not dictated
solely by function". In another case, Swain (Mathew) Ltd. v. Thomas Barkers &
Sons Ltd. (1967) RPC 23, Lloyd - Jacob J spoke of "artistic variants" which
had imported "genuine design characteristics" of "a striking feature making an
immediate appeal to the eye". I find it unnecessary to consider the facts or
the decisions in these cases but the words which I have quoted are useful by
way of illustration of the meaning of the words now being considered.
It does not seem to me that the terminals now in issue possess features of
shape which can be said to have any eye appeal. But whether this is so or not
the words of exclusion which are in the latter part of subsection (3) are, in
my view, applicable. The expression "design" does not include a method or
principle of construction or features of shape or configuration which are
dictated solely by the function which the article to be made in that shape or
configuration has to perform. In my view, no question in relation to "a method
or principle of construction" arises in this case but the question may be
asked - why was it that the terminals were evolved with the features of shape
which they possessed? There is no room for doubt as to the functions that the
terminals when made would have to perform. Was their devising governed solely
by the consideration that they must perform those functions? On the facts of
this case I think that it is clear that that was the sole consideration which
actuated Mr. Collier. I would not, however, exclude from possible validity for
registration a case where someone set out to produce an article that would
perform a particular function but where in producing it he added or applied
(by any industrial process or means) some feature of shape that was additional
to or supplementary to what was functionally needed, with the result that in
the finished article there was a feature that appealed to the eye. There
might, then, be a feature of shape which was not solely dictated by or
governed by the consideration that the article should do what it was required
to do. In the present case the terminal was simply devised so that it should
"do the job". It was to perform the function that was defined by Hoover's
requirements. The terminal is I think to be CS(Comm)192/2016 Page 22 of 37
considered as and looked at as a unit. But if its constituent parts are
considered I think that on the evidence each one was solely devised so that it
should correctly perform its own particular function. There was nothing extra.
There was nothing that could be regarded as any kind of embellishment. First
and last and all the time the key-note was functional success. The terminals,
unseen in the machines for which they were required (save by those who make or
service the machines), had only to pass the test of being able to perform
their functions. They would be judged by performance and not be appearance".
(emphasis supplied)
42\. She also places reliance on Negretti and Zambra v. W.F. Stanley & Co.
Ltd., (1962) 42 RPC 358. In this case, the plaintiff had obtained registration
of its design in respect of a stove thermometer having the tube bent at an
angle of 90 degree. The novelty claimed was the shape or configuration of the
stove thermometer having the scale face 'A' projecting and being inclined as
shown. Representation of the plaintiffs design was as follows:
43\. The plaintiffs alleged infringement of their design by the defendant. The
defendants claimed that the plaintiff's design was not, on the date of
registration, new or original, and that the same had been previously published
in the U.K. The design did not constitute valid subject matter for
CS(Comm)192/2016 Page 23 of 37 registration inasmuch, as, it was merely a mode
or principle of construction of a mechanical device and mere trade variant of
well known devices. The Chancery Division while rejecting the plaintiffs
claim, inter alia, observed as follows:
> "The defendants allege that this Design is not new and original, and that
> they have not infringed it. A number of prior documents and prior articles
> have been put in for the purpose of proving prior publication, and from
> those it is quite plain that stove thermometers were old; inlet tubes at
> right angels to the thermometer were old; the inclined faces of the scale of
> the thermometer to the stove were also old; and there is really nothing new
> about the present Design, except possibly the combination of the two lungs
> for the purpose of screwing the instrument on to the stove face in an
> article in which the inlet tube of the thermometer was at right angles to
> the thermometer itself. The plaintiffs instrument, like the defendants, is
> intended to be used with the thermometer lying in a horizontal position, so
> that any person standing in front of the stove can read it, the reading
> being facilitated by reason of the inclined scale attached to the stove.
> There is nothing whatever in the drawing of the plaintiffs design, when the
> heat figures are eliminated, to show whether the thermometer is intended to
> be used in a horizontal or in a vertical position".
> "It seems to me that what the plaintiffs have done is to make a neat and
> handy instrument similar in character as compared with many which went
> before, but which contains no novelty, within the meaning of the Act, which
> renders it a new and original Design as distinct from the many very similar
> Designs which had previously existed, and all that has been done to apply
> ordinary trade variants or trade adjustments well known and common for the
> purpose of making an instrument useful for the purpose for which it was
> intended and not rendering it qua configuration or design anything
> substantially new and original at all." (emphasis supplied) CS(Comm)192/2016
> Page 24 of 37
44\. She also places reliance on The Wimco Limited v. Meena Match Industries,
AIR 1983 Del 537. The plaintiff had initiated action alleging infringement of
its design to the chemical application applied on both sides of the panel of
the match boxes, which when rubbed with the match stick ignites the same on
account of friction. The Court while rejecting the plaintiffs claim, inter
alia, observed:
> "The features of the friction application incorporated in the match box are
> dictated solely by the function. The pattern/design possesses no additional
> feature. It is a mere mechanical device to achieve the same object of
> igniting the match head. The pattern claimed by Wimco is in rectangular form
> with multiple diamond-shaped spots. It is contained in the 'perspective
> view' and 'side view' also in the drawings. The same shape or pattern has
> previously been thought of in connection with the match box in the leather
> container in the said specification No. 29046 and the idea published. The
> previous idea will act as an anticipation of the later design. The eye and
> the eye alone, as Section 2(5) of the Act says, is to be the judge of the
> identity, and to decide whether one design is or is not an anticipation. I
> have looked into the general features of both the designs to find out if the
> one design is as good as the other and my conclusion arrived at by visual
> examination of the two is that they are identical. The registered design of
> Wimco is, of course, an exact copy or replica of the design of the Swedish
> Company in SM-1. It is settled that the underlying principle behind the law
> of infringement of design is that, while the commercial exigencies require
> that a specific design should be protected, the monopoly of a trade in
> respect of a common design previously published should not be encouraged."
> (emphasis supplied)
45\. Ms. Singh submits that the decision in Bharat Glass (supra) relied upon
by the plaintiff is distinguishable. She submits that in that case the
CS(Comm)192/2016 Page 25 of 37 respondent had claimed to be the originator of
a new and original design applied in the process of glass sheets. The glass
sheets had eye catching shape, configuration, ornamental pattern, get up etc.
which were got registered, and were pending registration under the Designs
Act. The appellant before the Supreme Court had assailed the said designs on
the ground that the said designs had been created by using the German imported
rollers. The Supreme Court held in favour of the respondent on the premise
that the rollers were a different article than the glass sheets on which the
respondent had put the said design, and there was no evidence or material
placed on record to show that the design in question had been applied on glass
sheets. She submits that in the present case, the designs over which the
plaintiff claims registration have been applied on hollow metal frames used as
door and window frames. Thus, the decision in Bharat Glass (supra) has no
application in the facts of the present case.
46\. She also places reliance on Metro Plastic Industries (Regd.) v. Galaxy
Footwear, New Delhi, AIR 2000 Del 117, which is a decision of a Full Bench of
this Court dealing with section 51A and 53 of the Designs Act, 1911. The Full
Bench held that mere registration of a design does not prohibit any other
person, who claims that the said registration is invalid, to use a similar
design. Section 51A of the Designs Act, 1911 dealt with cancellation of
registration. Section 51A of the Designs Act enabled the applicant to apply
for cancellation of a registered design. Section 53 of the Designs Act, 1911
substantially provided that during the existence of copyright in any design,
it shall not be lawful for any person to infringe the same. The Full Bench
held that in the absence of an application for CS(Comm)192/2016 Page 26 of 37
cancellation of the design, such a right could be enforced and no defence
could be taken on the ground of cancellation. But once an application for
cancellation has been made, then it would not be open to the Court trying the
suit under section 53, to turn a blind eye to the pendency of such an
application. In that situation, the Court must take into consideration all the
relevant facts - which include the grounds raised in the application for
cancellation, and then decide whether, or not, to grant any injunction in
favour of the registered owner. Such a decision must be made judiciously, and
the Court would apply the principles which govern grant of injunction under
Order 39 Rule 1&2 CPC. The grant or refusal of injunction must be based upon
all relevant factors. The Full Bench also took note of the fact that under the
Designs Act, there is no provision for advertisement or for calling for any
opposition to the registration of a design. Merely on an application, a design
could get registered if the registering authority felt that the same was new
and original and one which had not been previously published in India.
47\. Ms. Singh submits that though the said decision was rendered in the
context of the Designs Act, 1911, the same principles are applicable to the
present case. The fact that the defendants application for cancellation of the
plaintiffs registered design is pending should be taken into consideration and
the grounds on which the cancellation is sought, which have also been taken as
a defence in the written statement, should be considered by the Court. Mere
registration of the designs does not, in any way, grant any advantage or
presumption of validity of the registered design in favour of the plaintiff.
CS(Comm)192/2016 Page 27 of 37
48\. In his rejoinder, Mr. Sethi submits that most of the publications relied
upon by the defendant do not have a date, and it is not clear on a perusal of
the same - whether they constitute prior art, or not. He submits that unless
it is established by the defendant that the said publications are prior in
point of time to the date of application of the plaintiff for registration of
its design, the same would be of no avail to the defendants. In this regard,
specific reference is made to the publication of "Spence Doors", Victoria
relied upon by the defendants. Mr. Sethi further submits that several of the
prior publications relied upon by the defendant are open sections having no
base/ back, such as the publications found in the "American National
Standard", which recommends the erection instructions for steel frames.
Similarly, the publication of "Stiles Custom Metal Inc." is also an open
section. This is unlike the plaintiff's design which, as aforementioned, has a
flat base/back. Mr. Sethi also submits that some of the prior art as relied
upon by the defendant is in the name of the dealers of the plaintiff to whom
the products are supplied by the plaintiff themselves. Specific reference is
made to Saraswati Steel Tubes in this regard. It is further submitted that the
plaintiff's design is not a mechanical device. There is no mechanism involved
in the design of the plaintiff, it does not require any movement. It is only a
frame which is fixed, inter alia, on doors/ furniture and support structures.
49\. Mr. Sethi has also relied upon Eicher Goodearth Pvt. Ltd. v. Krishna
Mehta & Ors., 2015 (63) PTC 444 (Del). In the said decision, the Court took
note of the well settled position in law that though the design may be old in
itself, but if it is applied to a new article to which it has never been
CS(Comm)192/2016 Page 28 of 37 previously applied, the said design needs to be
protected. He submits that the design of the Hollow Section Pipes may have
been used earlier in wood but the same has not been used in metal frames
earlier, which is a new article and, therefore, needs protection. The Court,
amongst others, took note of the decision in Asian Rubber Industries v. Jasco
Rubber, 2013 (1) Bom CR 393 and observed as follows:
> "(d) In Asian Rubber Industries v. Jasco Rubber 2013 (1) Bom CR 393, Paras
> 3, 13, 14, 15 & 19, the defendants had challenged the validity of the design
> of the plaintiff on the ground that the said design of the footwear
> registered by the plaintiff was not new or original as the said design was
> developed from 'Padukas' which design has been commonly available since
> centuries. In the said case, the Court was of the view that the plaintiff is
> not claiming to be the inventor of 'Padukas' and is not claiming exclusivity
> by way of a patent right. However, the plaintiff is claiming exclusivity in
> the 'Creative Expression' and the 'Look and Feel' of their products. It was
> further observed that in the recent past, it is not known that the said look
> and feel of Padukas with the modification of strap to support the foot has
> been applied by any person to footwear. Thus, application of design of
> Padukas - of its 'Look and Feel', to footwear by the plaintiff in the recent
> past certainly falls within the meaning of 'Original' as defined in the Act
> and includes the cases which the old and themselves yet are new in their
> application (Relevant paras 3, 13, 14, 15, 19)".
50\. Mr. Sethi also places reliance on a recent decision of this Court in
Bhatia Enterprises v. Subhash Arora, 2016 (65) PTC 364 (Del). In this case,
the plaintiff alleged infringement of its registered design in a water jug.
The defendants application for cancellation of the registration of the
plaintiffs design was dismissed by the Asst. Controller of Patents & Design.
One of the grounds was that the pictorial representations of the design of the
CS(Comm)192/2016 Page 29 of 37 water jug submitted by the defendant were not
substantiated with the date of publication or sale. The alleged prior and pre-
published design also did not show any date of publication, or date of its
sale, to decide the period of disclosure to the public. This Court accepted
the said position while deciding the interim application in favour of the
plaintiff. The Court observed:
> "In view of the above findings that the impugned design was not published
> prior to its date of registration and as well as the visual impression of
> the impugned design is different from that of the cited designs of the
> petitioner, I construe that the subject design is new. ...."
51\. Mr. Sethi submits that in view of the said decision, the undated
publications filed by the defendant are of no avail.
52\. Mr. Sethi has referred to the publication of "Calder Door" relied upon by
the defendant, which shows that the same is in relation to an open section
i.e. without a base. Similarly, Mr. Sethi has referred to the publication of
"Ceco Door" in this regard. He has also submitted that the design of "Ceco
Door" set out herein above, is a very different design from that of the
plaintiff and there is no similarity between the two. In relation to the
design published by "Karpen Steel", he submits that the same is a combination
of two different sections as would be evident from the publication itself - as
there is a joint in the frame. However, there is no such joint in the case of
the plaintiffs design. He submits that the design publication by "Kutty's" is
in solid hard wood and is not in relation to hollow pipes of steel section. He
submits that the design published by "Sehgal & Sehgal Industries" relied upon
by the defendant is very different from that of the plaintiffs. The
CS(Comm)192/2016 Page 30 of 37 visual impact of the same is different, which
is what is relevant for the purpose of design registration and protection.
Similarly, he submits that the design published by "Sehgal & Sehgal
Industries" reproduced herein above, is an open section and it does not have
base/ back and is, therefore, different. Similarly, the publication of "Spence
Doors" Victoria shows that the same is an open section. So far as the
publication of "Specialty Wholesale Supply (SWS)" is concerned, the design
appears to be hollow and it is made in hard wood.
53\. Lastly, Ms. Singh while dealing with the submissions of Mr. Sethi made in
rejoinder, submits that she also relies on the principles of law laid down in
Eicher Goodearth (supra). She submits that the plaintiff is not correct in
claiming that the door and window frames of Hollow Section Pipes are a
different article than the wooden frame/ choket. She submits that both the
articles are the same and, therefore, the principles invoked by the plaintiff
are of no avail to the plaintiff.
54\. To begin with, it is essential to understand as to what meaning and scope
of a "Design" which the Act protects. "Design" is defined in Section 2(d) of
the Act in the following manner:
> "(d) "design" means only the features of shape, configuration, pattern,
> ornament or composition of lines or colours applied to any article whether
> in two dimensional or three dimensional or in both forms, by any industrial
> process or means, whether manual, mechanical or chemical, separate or
> combined, which in the finished article appeal to and are judged solely by
> the eye; but does not include any mode or principle of construction or
> anything which is in substance a mere mechanical device, and does not
> include any trade mark as defined in clause (v) of sub-section (1) of
> section 2 of the CS(Comm)192/2016 Page 31 of 37 Trade and Merchandise Marks
> Act, 1958 (43 of 1958) or property mark as defined in section 479 of the
> Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860) or any artistic work as defined in clause (c)
> of section 2 of the Copyright Act, 1957 (14 of 1957)". (emphasis supplied)
55\. Thus, design means only the features of shape, configuration, pattern,
ornament, or composition of lines or colours applied to any article, which in
the finished article appeal to and are judged solely by the eye. This
fundamental characteristic of a design have been repeatedly highlighted by the
Courts, not only in England but in India. In AMP Incorporated (supra), the
House of Lords emphasized that the design should have visual appeal. If the
element of visual appeal is lacking and the design of the article merely makes
the article more user friendly, i.e. that the design is only functional, it
would not be entitled to protection under the Act. The features of the design
must have some individual characteristic. It must be calculated to attract
attention of the beholder. It must be noticeable and have some perceptible
appearance of an individual character. In AMP Incorporated (supra), the House
of Lords further observed that the expression 'design' does not include the
method or principle of construction, or features of shape, or configuration,
which are dictated solely by the function which the article to be made in that
shape or configuration has to perform.
56\. In Negretti & Zambra (supra), the Chancellery Division rejected the claim
of the plaintiff for design protection on the ground that the instrument of
the plaintiff was similar in character as compared to many which went before,
but which contained no novelty within the meaning of the Act which would
render it a new and original design, as distinct from the many very
CS(Comm)192/2016 Page 32 of 37 similar designs which had previously existed.
In that case, the Court held that all that had been done by the plaintiff was
to apply ordinary trade variants or trade adjustments well known and common
for the purpose of making an instrument useful for the purpose for which it
was intended. The instrument could not be said to be a substantially new and
original design at all.
57\. This Court in The Wimco Limited (supra) rejected the claim for design
protection by applying the aforesaid principles. The Court held that the same
shape or pattern had previously been thought of in connection with the match
box in the leather container. The previous idea acted as an anticipation of
the later design. On a comparison of the earlier design with one in respect
whereof protection was claimed, the Court held that the two appear to be
identical.
58\. In the present case, the plaintiff is claiming design protection in
respect of the Hollow Section Pipe made of steel. The plaintiff claims
uniqueness of its design on the premise that Hollow Section Pipes in prior art
and in use, did not have a base/ back with the metal plate. Even if this
submission of the plaintiff were to be accepted - though, the defendant has
disputed the same and has claimed that their existed prior art in respect of
the same design, i.e. with the flat base/ back, the plaintiff has not been
able to show as to how flat base/ base allegedly introduced by the plaintiff
for the first time, renders the design to be new and novel which appeals to
the eye and eye alone, and is not merely functional. When one looks at the
design of the plaintiffs Hollow Section Pipe as set out in paragraph 6
hereinabove, and compares the same with the admitted prior art, i.e. of the
Hollow CS(Comm)192/2016 Page 33 of 37 Section Pipe as depicted in paragraph 19
hereinabove onwards, there is absolutely nothing to suggest that the creation
of the metal base/ back has added to the visual appeal of the Hollow Section
Pipe existing in prior art. Moreover, it is abundantly clear that the metal
base/ back in the Hollow Section Pipe of the plaintiff serves only the
functional purpose, i.e. of providing a base for fixing the Hollow Section
Pipe on the desired surface in whatever manner the user may decide to affix
the same. The metal base/ back of the Hollow Section Pipe may be affixed
either by using rivets, screws or adhesives. The two Hollow Section Pipes -
one with the base and the other without the base would look the same after
affixation. Before affixation and use, they would look somewhat different, but
the said difference cannot be said to have created, added to or enhanced the
visual appeal to the Hollow Section Pipe with the base, as compared to the
one, without the base. Thus, to me it appears that the metal base/ back in the
plaintiff's Hollow Section Pipe is purely functional, bereft of any visual
appeal whatsoever.
59\. I also find merit in the submission of Ms. Singh that there was prior art
available at the time when the plaintiff claimed registration of its design in
respect of its Hollow Section Pipe. The documents, in relation to existence of
prior art, were filed by the defendant along with its application seeking
cancellation of the plaintiff's design. Those documents have been placed on
record by the plaintiff itself. No doubt, some of the documents of prior art
relied upon by the defendant do not indicate the time of their publication,
but there are several other documents placed on record by the defendant along
with its cancellation application which do support the CS(Comm)192/2016 Page
34 of 37 defendant's claim that prior art existed in respect of the design
over which the plaintiff claims proprietary rights. For the present purpose,
it is not necessary to deal with each and every of the documents relied upon
by the defendant to claim prior art, and it would suffice to refer to only
some of them which, prima facie, support the said claim of the defendant.
60\. The design of "Ceco Door" labeled as "Con" in respect of the hollow metal
pipe shows that the said design was published on 08.01.2001, or earlier.
Similarly, the design of "Door Fix" labeled as "Double Rabetted Standard
Profile" and "Wrap Around" also appear to be the publications of the year
2001. From the literature placed on record it, prima facie, appears that the
same refers to hollow metal frames. The publication of "Karpen Steel" which
shows that the same is of 29.03.2001 is also a strikingly similar to the
design of the plaintiff and the defendant.
61\. I also find merit in the submission of Ms. Singh that the publication of
the American National Standard Recommended Erection Instructions for Steel
Frames approved on 10.06.2011 and Bureau of Indian Standards for Steel Door
Frames- Specification dated May, 2003 also constitutes relevant prior art. The
same also shows existence of hollow metal frames - similar to those of the
plaintiff and the defendant. The only distinction is that the metal base/ back
is missing. However, as observed earlier, the addition of the metal base/ back
appears to be only functional, and does not create or enhance the visual
appeal of the metal frame and the same is, therefore, of no consequence.
CS(Comm)192/2016 Page 35 of 37
62\. To deal with the submission of Ms. Singh that all that the plaintiff has
done is to use the pre-existing design - earlier used in wooden door frames/
chowkhats, by converting the same into hollow metal door frames, Mr. Sethi has
placed reliance on Bharat Glass (supra). In my view, the said reliance is
misplaced. As rightly pointed out by Ms. Singh Bharat Glass (supra) was a case
where a new and original design was claimed to have been applied to glass
sheets which had eye catching shape, configuration, ornamental pattern, get
up, etc. for the first time. It was these features in respect whereof design
registration was claimed. The defendant had opposed the said claim for design
protection on the premise that the rollers used for creating the design on the
glass sheets were imported German rollers. The Supreme Court held in favour of
the plaintiff on the premise that rollers were a different article than the
glass sheets on which the plaintiff had put the said design, and there was no
evidence of the rollers being used for the said purpose earlier. The decision
in Bharat Glass (supra) has no application in the present case for the reason
that, firstly, there is no eye appeal in respect of the hollow metal frames of
the plaintiff; and secondly, the design of the plaintiff was available in
prior art.
63\. It is well-settled that a mere registration of the design does not
entitle the registrant of the design to claim protection and it is always open
to the defendant to plead and set up a defence of lack of novelty or eye
appeal and of existence of prior art (see Metro Plastic Industries (Regd.)
(supra)). In my view, reliance placed by Mr. Sethi on the Eicher Goodearth
Pvt. Ltd. (supra) is of no avail, since I am of the view that there is no
appeal to the eye in respect of the plaintiff's design and also in view of the
fact that there is no CS(Comm)192/2016 Page 36 of 37 novelty in the
plaintiff's design as the same existed in prior art. Reliance placed on Bhatia
Enterprises (supra) is of no avail since the defendant has been able to show,
prima facie, the publication of the prior art many years before the
registration of the plaintiff's design.
64\. For all the aforesaid reasons, I find no merit in the present application
and dismiss the same with costs of Rs.50,000/- to the defendant. It is,
however, made clear that the observations made by me in this order are founded
upon only a, prima facie, evaluation of the materials placed before the Court
and shall not prejudice the case of either party at the final stage post-
trial.
(VIPIN SANGHI) JUDGE JANUARY 03, 2017 CS(Comm)192/2016 Page 37 of 37
prior art.
63\. It is well-settled that a mere registration of the design does not
entitle the registrant of the design to claim protection and it is always open
to the defendant to plead and set up a defence of lack of novelty or eye
appeal and of existence of prior art (see Metro Plastic Industries (Regd.)
(supra)). In my view, reliance placed by Mr. Sethi on the Eicher Goodearth
Pvt. Ltd. (supra) is of no avail, since I am of the view that there is no
appeal to the eye in respect of the plaintiff's design and also in view of the
fact that there is no CS(Comm)192/2016 Page 36 of 37 novelty in the
plaintiff's design as the same existed in prior art. Reliance placed on Bhatia
Enterprises (supra) is of no avail since the defendant has been able to show,
prima facie, the publication of the prior art many years before the
registration of the plaintiff's design.
64\. For all the aforesaid reasons, I find no merit in the present application
and dismiss the same with costs of Rs.50,000/- to the defendant. It is,
however, made clear that the observations made by me in this order are founded
          HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE VIPIN SANGHI
                                JUDGMENT
VIPIN SANGHI, J.
1\. By this order, I proceed to dispose of the aforesaid application filed by
the plaintiff to seek ad-interim injunction against the defendant under Order
39 Rule 1 & 2 CPC.
CS(Comm)192/2016 Page 1 of 37
2\. The plaintiff has filed the present suit alleging infringement of the
plaintiff's registered design in respect of a Hollow Section Pipe - which the
plaintiff claims, as novel and original. The plaintiff claims that novelty and
originality in the Hollow Section Pipe designed by the plaintiff resides in
its shape and configuration which gives the Hollow Section Pipe an original,
unique, new and distinctive configuration, look and feature, which was not
available in the market earlier and the same was designed and introduced for
the first time by the plaintiff. The plaintiff claims that its original and
novel design was not published in India or in any other country, and it was
not disclosed to the public anywhere in or outside India prior to the date of
filing of the plaintiff's application for registration of its design. The
plaintiff claims that the novelty and originality of the design is as a result
of research and development done by its designing team. The design of the
prior art.
63\. It is well-settled that a mere registration of the design does not
entitle the registrant of the design to claim protection and it is always open
to the defendant to plead and set up a defence of lack of novelty or eye
appeal and of existence of prior art (see Metro Plastic Industries (Regd.)
(supra)). In my view, reliance placed by Mr. Sethi on the Eicher Goodearth
Pvt. Ltd. (supra) is of no avail, since I am of the view that there is no
appeal to the eye in respect of the plaintiff's design and also in view of the
fact that there is no CS(Comm)192/2016 Page 36 of 37 novelty in the
plaintiff's design as the same existed in prior art. Reliance placed on Bhatia
Enterprises (supra) is of no avail since the defendant has been able to show,
prima facie, the publication of the prior art many years before the
registration of the plaintiff's design.
64\. For all the aforesaid reasons, I find no merit in the present application
and dismiss the same with costs of Rs.50,000/- to the defendant. It is,
however, made clear that the observations made by me in this order are founded
          HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE VIPIN SANGHI
                                JUDGMENT
VIPIN SANGHI, J.
1\. By this order, I proceed to dispose of the aforesaid application filed by
the plaintiff to seek ad-interim injunction against the defendant under Order
39 Rule 1 & 2 CPC.
CS(Comm)192/2016 Page 1 of 37
2\. The plaintiff has filed the present suit alleging infringement of the
plaintiff's registered design in respect of a Hollow Section Pipe - which the
plaintiff claims, as novel and original. The plaintiff claims that novelty and
originality in the Hollow Section Pipe designed by the plaintiff resides in
its shape and configuration which gives the Hollow Section Pipe an original,
unique, new and distinctive configuration, look and feature, which was not
available in the market earlier and the same was designed and introduced for
the first time by the plaintiff. The plaintiff claims that its original and
novel design was not published in India or in any other country, and it was
not disclosed to the public anywhere in or outside India prior to the date of
filing of the plaintiff's application for registration of its design. The
plaintiff claims that the novelty and originality of the design is as a result
of research and development done by its designing team. The design of the
prior art.
63\. It is well-settled that a mere registration of the design does not
entitle the registrant of the design to claim protection and it is always open
to the defendant to plead and set up a defence of lack of novelty or eye
appeal and of existence of prior art (see Metro Plastic Industries (Regd.)
(supra)). In my view, reliance placed by Mr. Sethi on the Eicher Goodearth
Pvt. Ltd. (supra) is of no avail, since I am of the view that there is no
appeal to the eye in respect of the plaintiff's design and also in view of the
fact that there is no CS(Comm)192/2016 Page 36 of 37 novelty in the
plaintiff's design as the same existed in prior art. Reliance placed on Bhatia
Enterprises (supra) is of no avail since the defendant has been able to show,
prima facie, the publication of the prior art many years before the
registration of the plaintiff's design.
64\. For all the aforesaid reasons, I find no merit in the present application
and dismiss the same with costs of Rs.50,000/- to the defendant. It is,
however, made clear that the observations made by me in this order are founded
          HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE VIPIN SANGHI
                                JUDGMENT
VIPIN SANGHI, J.
1\. By this order, I proceed to dispose of the aforesaid application filed by
the plaintiff to seek ad-interim injunction against the defendant under Order
39 Rule 1 & 2 CPC.
CS(Comm)192/2016 Page 1 of 37
2\. The plaintiff has filed the present suit alleging infringement of the
plaintiff's registered design in respect of a Hollow Section Pipe - which the
plaintiff claims, as novel and original. The plaintiff claims that novelty and
originality in the Hollow Section Pipe designed by the plaintiff resides in
its shape and configuration which gives the Hollow Section Pipe an original,
unique, new and distinctive configuration, look and feature, which was not
available in the market earlier and the same was designed and introduced for
the first time by the plaintiff. The plaintiff claims that its original and
novel design was not published in India or in any other country, and it was
not disclosed to the public anywhere in or outside India prior to the date of
filing of the plaintiff's application for registration of its design. The
plaintiff claims that the novelty and originality of the design is as a result
of research and development done by its designing team. The design of the
plaintiff has special ocular features which appeal to the eye, because of its
shape and configuration.
3\. The said Hollow Section Pipe is claimed by the plaintiff to be in use in
amusement parks, playground equipment, signages, leisure equipment, furniture,
transport industries, ceiling support systems, support structures,
prefabricated structures etc. It is used as a preferred alternative for rolled
products like angles, channels and beams. It is also used for fluid and wire
conveyance and can also be used as a door frame.
4\. The plaintiff applied for and got registered its design under the Designs
Act, 2000 (hereinafter "the Act") in classes 23-01 and 25-99. The applications
were made on 25.07.2014 and registration was granted in respect of the Hollow
prior art.
63\. It is well-settled that a mere registration of the design does not
entitle the registrant of the design to claim protection and it is always open
to the defendant to plead and set up a defence of lack of novelty or eye
appeal and of existence of prior art (see Metro Plastic Industries (Regd.)
(supra)). In my view, reliance placed by Mr. Sethi on the Eicher Goodearth
Pvt. Ltd. (supra) is of no avail, since I am of the view that there is no
appeal to the eye in respect of the plaintiff's design and also in view of the
fact that there is no CS(Comm)192/2016 Page 36 of 37 novelty in the
plaintiff's design as the same existed in prior art. Reliance placed on Bhatia
Enterprises (supra) is of no avail since the defendant has been able to show,
prima facie, the publication of the prior art many years before the
registration of the plaintiff's design.
64\. For all the aforesaid reasons, I find no merit in the present application
and dismiss the same with costs of Rs.50,000/- to the defendant. It is,
however, made clear that the observations made by me in this order are founded
          HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE VIPIN SANGHI
                                JUDGMENT
VIPIN SANGHI, J.
1\. By this order, I proceed to dispose of the aforesaid application filed by
the plaintiff to seek ad-interim injunction against the defendant under Order
39 Rule 1 & 2 CPC.
CS(Comm)192/2016 Page 1 of 37
2\. The plaintiff has filed the present suit alleging infringement of the
plaintiff's registered design in respect of a Hollow Section Pipe - which the
plaintiff claims, as novel and original. The plaintiff claims that novelty and
originality in the Hollow Section Pipe designed by the plaintiff resides in
its shape and configuration which gives the Hollow Section Pipe an original,
unique, new and distinctive configuration, look and feature, which was not
available in the market earlier and the same was designed and introduced for
the first time by the plaintiff. The plaintiff claims that its original and
novel design was not published in India or in any other country, and it was
not disclosed to the public anywhere in or outside India prior to the date of
filing of the plaintiff's application for registration of its design. The
plaintiff claims that the novelty and originality of the design is as a result
of research and development done by its designing team. The design of the
plaintiff has special ocular features which appeal to the eye, because of its
shape and configuration.
3\. The said Hollow Section Pipe is claimed by the plaintiff to be in use in
amusement parks, playground equipment, signages, leisure equipment, furniture,
transport industries, ceiling support systems, support structures,
prefabricated structures etc. It is used as a preferred alternative for rolled
products like angles, channels and beams. It is also used for fluid and wire
conveyance and can also be used as a door frame.
4\. The plaintiff applied for and got registered its design under the Designs
Act, 2000 (hereinafter "the Act") in classes 23-01 and 25-99. The applications
were made on 25.07.2014 and registration was granted in respect of the Hollow
prior art.
63\. It is well-settled that a mere registration of the design does not
entitle the registrant of the design to claim protection and it is always open
to the defendant to plead and set up a defence of lack of novelty or eye
appeal and of existence of prior art (see Metro Plastic Industries (Regd.)
(supra)). In my view, reliance placed by Mr. Sethi on the Eicher Goodearth
Pvt. Ltd. (supra) is of no avail, since I am of the view that there is no
appeal to the eye in respect of the plaintiff's design and also in view of the
fact that there is no CS(Comm)192/2016 Page 36 of 37 novelty in the
plaintiff's design as the same existed in prior art. Reliance placed on Bhatia
Enterprises (supra) is of no avail since the defendant has been able to show,
prima facie, the publication of the prior art many years before the
registration of the plaintiff's design.
64\. For all the aforesaid reasons, I find no merit in the present application
and dismiss the same with costs of Rs.50,000/- to the defendant. It is,
however, made clear that the observations made by me in this order are founded
