Bombay High Court
Fortune Films International vs Dev Anand And Anr. on 14 March, 1978
Equivalent citations: AIR 1979 Bom 17, (1978) 80 BOMLR 263
Author: Desai
Bench: Kantawala, Desai
JUDGMENT Desai, J.
1\. This appeal is from the order of Gadgil J. dated 3rd January 1978 made on
the plaintiff's Notice of Motion, dated 15th December 1977. By the said order
the learned single Judge confirmed the ad-interim injunction already granted,
as he was of the opinion that the terms of Exhibit 'A' to the plaint,
particularly paragraph 7, was prima facie in the plaintiff's favour. He
rejected the defence contention that Exhibit 'B' amounted to a novatio and in
his view the same appeared only to change in the mode of payment. The
respective arguments as to copyright were not considered at that stage.
2\. In this view of the matter the learned single Judge confirmed in favour of
the plaintiff the substantial reliefs which the plaintiff had already obtained
at the ad-interim stage; and it is the 1st defendants, who, being aggrieved by
the said order, have preferred this appeal.
3\. Before setting out the facts shortly, it may be stated that on 27th
February 1978 we heard fairly detailed arguments lasting for nearly three to
status quo and for stay of the order passed in this appeal.
41\. In our opinion, the application is totally misconceived inasmuch as the
order passed in appeal merely confirms the order which we made on the Notice
of motion in the appeal, which order was passed on 27th Feb. 1978. Thus the
status quo existing today is in accord with the final orders passed in appeal.
There can be no question of any stay therefore or of reviving the order which
was in force prior to 27th February 1978.
42\. Mr. Desai then applies for a certificate under Article 133(1) of the
Constitution of India for leave to appeal to the Supreme Court of India. Mr.
Desai submits that the claims of a cine artiste of nature involved in the suit
are decided for the first time and the question whether the Indian Copyright
Act, 1957, would protect his performance is now decided by this order.
43\. The ultimate order, in our opinion, mainly turns upon the proper
interpretation of the agreement dated 1st August 1974 and we are, therefore,
of opinion that this is not an appropriate case for the grant of a certificate
under Article 133(1) of the Constitution as it now stands. The application of
February 1978 we heard fairly detailed arguments lasting for nearly three to
four hours on the appellant's Notice of Motion, and after this hearing we
reduced the ambit of the injunctions granted in favour of the plaintiff and
restricted them to four of the specified territories mentioned in clause 6 of
Exhibit A and vacated the injuctions for the territories not specified in
Clause 6. At the conclusion of the arguments and before passing the order on
the Notice of Motion we had asked counsel for the parties whether they desired
to convert the hearing of the Notice of Motion in the Appeal to the hearing of
the Appeal itself. After taking instructions the learned counsel for the
appellants was agreeable for this course; but on behalf of the 1st respondents
(original plaintiff) it was stated to us that the respondent did not wish to
convert the hearing of the Notice of Motion into the hearing of the Appeal.
Accordingly we only made the operative order. It is in these circumstances
that the appeal has subsequently been re-heard, though it must be stated that
somewhat more detailed arguments have been advanced today.
4\. In order to appreciate the rival controversy, a few facts may be stated:
The plaintiff (the 1st respondent before us) is a cine artiste and will be
hereinafter referred to as "The Cine Artiste" for the sake of brevity. The
appellants before us are the producers of ft motion picture in Hindi language
entitled "DARLING DARLING"; they will be hereinafter referred to as "the
producers". The 2nd defendant to the suit were M/s. Navrang Cine Centre
Private Ltd., a Laboratory carrying on business of processing cinematograph
films; they will hereinafter be referred to as ''the laboratory".
5\. According to the producers, they engaged the Cine Artiste's services some
time in December 1972 and the production of the film commenced some time in
May 1973 with the "muhurat Shot". It is alleged by the producers (though
disputed by the cine artiste) that in July 1973 they had entered into an
agreement with one Mavani for the East Punjab territory and in July 1974 with
one G.N. Shah (HUF) for the Bombay and Overseas territories. It is their case
further, which is again disputed by the cine artiste, that by 1st August 1974
about eight reels of the said motion picture were completed. It is on that day
that a written agreement Exhibit 'A' to the plaint was entered into between
the producers and the cine artiste in the form of a letter written by the
producers and confirmed by the cine artiste. Both sides have pleaded that some
changes were thereafter orally made; but it will be sufficient for our
purposes to refer only to certain arrangements recorded in the correspondence
exchanged between the producers, the laboratory and the cine artiste in the
form of letters, which are collectively annexed as Exhibit 'B' to the plaint.
6\. Now, for the purposes of disposing of this appeal, we are not inclined to
attach much importance to the case of any oral variation and are of opinion
that the rights of the parties must stand governed by the written agreement
recorded in the letter dated 1st August 1974 (Exhibit 'A' to the plaint) as
modified, governed, controlled or clarified by the subsequent letters, part of
Exhibit 'B' (Collectively) to the plaint. It may be stated that the first of
the two letters which are part of Exhibit 'B' bears the date 8th November,
1976, but the admitted position is that the proper date is 3rd December, 1976,
and it is this very same letter which is referred to in the next letter dated
4th December, 1976; and indeed a photostat copy of the letter of the 3rd was
enclosed along with the latter letter of 4th addressed by the laboratory to
the cine artiste which was duly confirmed by the cine artiste.
7\. Before dealing with the agreement (Ex. 'A' to the plaint), it may be
mentioned that the motion picture was censored on 11th May, 1977. It was
released in the Delhi U. P. territories on and after 2nd September, 1977.
According to the producers, it was released in the East Punjab territory on
30th September, 1977. As far as this territory is concerned, it is the cine
artiste's case that such release was a surreptitious one and without his
knowledge or consent. It was also released in the Mysore and C. P. C. I.
territories; but this, it is admitted, was with the knowledge and consent of
the cine artiste and in accordance with the rights of the parties. It is also
the producers' case that between 3rd November, 1977 and 23rd November 1977 the
Laboratory had prepared and delivered thirteen prints for distribution and
release in "overseas" territory. According to the cine artiste, this was also
done without his knowledge or consent and was in breach of his right under the
agreement dated 1st August 1974, to which we must now turn to ascertain what
exactly the rights and the reciprocal obligations of the parties were.
8\. The agreement in the form or a letter sent by the producers and confirmed
by the cine artiste records that the artiste was to perform and play as the
leading male artiste for the picture. We are really concerned with Clauses 6
and 7 of the said agreement and they provide as follows:--
"6. That in consideration of your all the services to us for the said picture,
you will be paid remuneration as under:--
(a) Rs. 1,00,000/- on or before the release of our above picture in the Delhi
U. P. territory.
(b) Rs. 3,50,000/- on or before the release of our above picture in the Bengal
territory.
(c) Rs. 75,000/- on or before the release of our above picture in the Nizam
territory.
(d) Rs. 75,000/- on or before the release of our above picture in the Mysore
territory.
(e) Rs. 50,000/- on or before the release of our above picture in the C. P. C.
I. territory.
(f) Rs. 25,000/- on or before the release of our above picture in the Tamil
Nadu territory.
(g) Rs. 25,000/- on or before the release of our above picture in the Andhra
territory.
Rs. 7,00,000/-
7\. The aforesaid amount shall be paid to you by procuring suitable annuity
policies of LIC of India. That your work in our above picture on completion
will belong to you absolutely and the copyright therein shall vest in you and
we will not be entitled to exhibit the said picture until full payments as per
clause 6 above are secured to you by way of annuity policies of LIC. It is,
however, agreed that upon the deliveries of the said annuity policies as per
Clause 6 above to you as stated above, your copyright will automatically vest
in us. We therefore agree that until the said policies axe delivered to you,
we shall not release the said picture not exhibit or distribute or exploit or
part with any prints of the said picture to any party directly or indirectly
for the purpose of exhibition, distribution and exploitation in the
territories specified above".
It may be pointed out that in the body of the agreement, Exhibit A to the
plaint as annexed, there is a mistake inasmuch as item (d) to be found in the
original agreement providing for the payment of Rs. 75,000/- to be made on or
before the release of the picture in the Mysore territory is missing we have
set out the clauses by reference to the original letters.
9\. On behalf of the cine artiste it was contended that the following rights
are clearly conferred on and/or retained by the cine artiste by reason of the
agreement contained in the bargain to be found in Clause 7 or para 7 of this
letter: (1) That it is agreed that the copyright in the motion picture viz.
the Hindi film 'DARLING DARLING' is to vest in the Cine Artiste subject to the
condition that upon deliveries of the annuity policies of the L. I. C. of the
value of Rs. 7,00,000/- the cine artiste's copyright would automatically vest
in the producers. (2) There was a total prohibition and a negative covenant
given by the producers in respect of the producers being entitled to exhibit
the said picture anywhere until the full payment of the amount of Rs.
7,00,000/-was secured to the cine artiste by way of annuity policies of the L.
I. C. It was submitted by counsel on behalf of the cine artiste that this
prohibition or negative covenant was made subject to a specific provision or
relaxation made in favour of the producers that the producers would be
entitled to a limited right of exhibiting the picture in the seven territories
mentioned in Clause 6 provided payment of the amount indicated for each
territory in the said clause was made on or before the release of the picture
in that territory. Such payment was to be in accordance with the manner
indicated viz. by procuring suitable annuity policies of the L. I. C. This
was, according to his submission, a clarification or an exception by way of
relaxation of the absolute prohibition in respect of the total release unless
the full amount was paid. (3). In the alternative to the contention that the
copyright in the film was by agreement specifically vested in the cine
artiste, it was submitted that the copyright in his performance was expressly
agreed to be vested in the cine artiste and, at any rate, this copyright was
to remain vested in him till the full amount of Rs. 7,00,000/- was paid to him
in the manner indicated in the said agreement. As far as payment is concerned,
it may be mentioned at this juncture that it is the plaintiff's case that out
of Rupees 7,00,000/- a sum of Rs. 1,25,000/- has been received by him leaving
a balance of Rupees 5,75,000/- as payable for the work done by him. On the
other hand, it is the contention of the producers that a further amount of Rs.
3,50,000/- has been paid to the cine artiste (of which Rs. 3,00,000/- was
claimed to have been paid toward the enhanced amount of Rs. 4,00,000/- payable
for Bengal territory), leaving, therefore, only the balance of Rs. 2,25,000/-
of the total amount. Thus, according to the cine artiste, there could be no
release in the territories not specified in Clause 6 including Bombay and
overseas until full payment was made.
10\. As far as the agreement contained in the letter of 1st August 1974 is
concerned, it was submitted by learned counsel on behalf of the appellants
before us (producers) that: (1) the agreement did not provide for the vesting
of the copyright in the said motion picture in the cine artiste, but it merely
referred to the copyright in the cine artiste's work in the said motion
picture. (2) That as there was no specific agreement regarding the copyright
of the said picture to be found in this agreement, under the provisions of the
Copyright Act the copyright in the motion picture would belong to the
producers. (3) [t was submitted that under the provisions of the Copyright
Act, 1957, the copyright in a cine artiste's performance was not any "work"
which was protected and, therefore, despite the specific provision in the
agreement, there was no legal vesting of such copyright in the cine artiste.
In other words, it was submitted that this provision conferred on the cine
artiste a non-existent right or a right which was not protected by the law in
question viz. the Copyright Act, 1957. (4) As far as the prohibitions or the
negative covenant was concerned, it was submitted that if Clauses 6 and 7 of
the agreement are read harmoniously and properly, rights were conferred on the
cine artiste and prohibitions imposed on the producers only in respect of the
seven territories indicated in clause 6 with a provision that on payment of
the respective amounts mentioned against each territory, the producers were
entitled to release the said motion picture in the said territories. (7)
Finally, it was submitted that even if the Court were of opinion that the
Copyright Act, 1957, conferred protection on and did protect the copyright in
an actor's performance in a motion picture and if it further held that the
copyright in the cine artiste's performance had been specifically vested in
him by the letter of 1st August 1974, it would not necessarily follow that the
cine artiste by reason of the vesting of such copyright in him would be
entitled to the wide injunctions sought for if in the opinion of the Court
under the agreement, which conferred the copyright and the prohibition against
the producers releasing the picture, was expressly restricted to the seven
territories mentioned in Clause 6. In this connection it may be stated that on
behalf of the appellants (the producers) a submission has been urged that it
was the cine artiste who has come to the Court in order to secure the wide
injunctions which he has sought for; and in case rights were not clearly and
unequivocally conferred on the cine artiste by the agreement, the principles
of balance of convenience require that wide injunctions should be refused to
the plaintiff and the plaintiff should have only a limited injunction which we
had in fact granted by our order dated 27th February 1978 on the Notice of
Motion in appeal and that the cine artiste was not entitled to any wider
injunctions. In this connection it was also submitted that if there was any
doubt as to the impact and implications of the agreement dated 1st August
1974, it must be resolved in favour of the producers by reading the letters
dated 3rd and 4th December 1976 (Exhibit 'B' to the Plaint.).
11\. The first question to be considered is whether the cine artiste is right
in his contention that under the agreement recorded in the letter of 1st
August 1974 the copyright in the film was agreed to be vested in him until the
appellants had produced the annuity policies of the full amount of Rs.
7,00,000/-, when, it was provided that the copyright should automatically vest
in the producers, The relevant words of the letter read as follows :--
"...... That your work in our above picture on completion will belong to you
absohitely and the copyright therein shall vest in you ........ It is however
agreed that upon deliveries of the said annuity policies as per clause 6 above
to you as stated above, your copyright will automatically vest in us."
(underlining supplied)
12\. The short question is whether does the word 'therein' refer to the work
of the cine artiste in the picture or to the picture? On a fair reading of the
language employed, it would appear to us that the word 'therein' can only
refer to the work of the cine artiste in the picture and not to the picture as
a complete entity. This is also borne out by the opening portion of the
sentence under consideration which provides for the work of the cine artiste
in the picture belonging to him on completion, and it is the copyright in that
work, which, by the subsequent part of the sentence is declared as vesting in
him till the payment of the full amount of Rupees 7,00,000/- by way of
procurement of the annuity policies. Reading these provisions as sought for by
the learned counsel for the 1st respondent (the cine artiste) would, in our
opinion he a strained reading not borne out by the words used nor by the
construction of the sentence.
12A. If, in our opinion by the agreement it was agreed between the producers
and the cine artiste that the copyright in the cine artiste's work in the
motion picture is to vest in the cine artiste till full payment of the agreed
amount is made to him, on which it would automatically vest in the producers,
it becomes necessary to examine the contentions advanced at the bar on behalf
of the appellants (producers) that such a copyright was not recognised or
protected by the (Indian) Copyright Act, 1957. It was submitted that the
Copyright Act properly read would seem to protect only "work" as therein
defined and if the works indicated in the definition of "work" to be found in
Section 2(y) of the Copyright Act properly considered, only "work" which is
tangible in nature was protected. It was submitted that there could be a
copyright in a motion picture or a cinematograph film as also in the story,
scenario or music (if written on sheets or if put on a sound tract or a tape,
but not otherwise), which were all tangible, but not in the performance of an
artiste although it was part of component element of a film. On the other
hand, on behalf of the cine artiste it was contended that the performance of
an actor was covered by the definition of "artistic work" or "dramatic work"
to be found in Sections 2(c) and 2(h) of the Copyright Act, 1957.
Alternatively the argument which was advanced was that a cinematograph film
would include portions of the film or components of the film and an atriste's
work in the film must be regarded as a component or a part of the film which
would be entitled to protection as falling within the definition of "work". It
becomes necessary, therefore, to examine the relevant provisions of the
Copyright Act, 1957, to which our attention was drawn at the bar, in order to
consider which of the rival submissions are to be accepted.
13\. Section 2 is the interpretation section and we are concerned with the
words "artistic work", "author", "cinematograph film", "dramatic work",
"performance" and "work" to be found in Sub-sections (c), (d), (f), (h), (q)
and (y) respectively of Section 2. These may be fully set out:
"2 (c) "artistic work" means,:--
(i) a painting, a sculpture, a drawing (including a diagram, map, chart or
plan), an engraving or a photograph, whether or not any such work possesses
artistic quality.
(ii) an architectural work of art; and
(iii) any other work of artistic craftsmanship.
2 (d) "author", means,---
(i) in relation to literary or dramatic work, the author of the work;
(ii) in relation to a musical work, the composer;
(iii) in relation to an artistic work other than a photograph, the artiste;
(iv) in relation to a photograph, lie person taking the photograph;
(v) in relation to a cinematograph film, the owner of the film at the time of
its completion; and
(vi) in relation to a record, the owner of the original plate from which the
record is made, at the time of the making of the plate;
2 (f) "cinematograph film" includes the sound track, if any, and
"cinematograph" shall be construed as including any work produced by any
process analgous to cinematography;
2 (h) "dramatic work" includes any piece for recitation, choreographic work or
entertainment in dumb show, the scenic arrangement or acting form of which is
fixed in writing or otherwise but does not include a cinematograph film;
2 (q) "performance" includes any mode of visual or acoustic presentation,
including any such presentation by the exhibition of a cinematograph film, or
by means of radio-diffusion, or by the use of a record, or by any other means
and, in relation to a lecture, includes the delivery of such lecture;
2 (y) "work" means any of the following works, namely-
(i) a literary, dramatic, musical or artistic work;
(ii) a cinematograph film;
(iii) a record;"
14\. Section 13 of the Copyright Act, 1957, provides that subject to the
provisions of the section and other provisions of the Act, copy-
right shall subsist throughout India in three types of works indicated
therein, viz. (1) original literary, dramatic, musical and artistic works; (2)
cinematograph films and (3) records. Sub-section (4) of Section 13 provides as
follows:
"13 (4) -- The copyright in a cinematograph film or a record shall not affect
the separate copyright in any work in respect of which or a substantial part
of which, the film, or as the case may be, the record is made." Section 14
gives what is meant by 'copyright' by and under the Act and Sub-section (1)
(c) thereof provides for the case of a cinematograph film. Section 16 makes it
clear that there is no copyright except as provided under and in accordance
with the Copyright Act. Section 17 provides for the first owner of copyright,
and it is provided that the author of a work shall be the first owner of the
copyright therein. In respect of a cinematograph film provision is to be found
in clause (b) of the Proviso to Section 17, which is in the following words :
"(b) subject to the provisions of clause (a), in the case of a photograph
taken, or a painting or a portrait drawn, or an engraving or a cinematograph
film made, for valuable consideration at the instance of any person, such
person shall, in the absence of any agreement to the contrary be the first
owner of the copyright therein."
Sections 18 and 19 deal with the assignments of copyright and under Section 19
it is provided that no assignment of the copyright in any work shall be valid
unless it is in writing signed by the assignor or by his duly authorised
agent. Section 30 provides for granting of licence by the owner or a
prospective owner of any copyright. There is only one other section to which
reference was made at the bar during the course of arguments, and it was to
Section 55 which provides for civil remedies for infringement of copyright.
The relevant portion of Sub-section (1) provides that the owner of the
copyright shall, except as otherwise provided by the Act, be entitled to all
such remedies by way of injunction, damages, accounts and otherwise as are or
may be conferred by law for the infringement of a right.
15\. It now becomes necessary to consider in the light of these provisions
whether the performance of a cine artiste in a film would be a 'work'
protected by the Copyright Act, 1957, and, if it is so protected, what would
the rights of the cine artiste be in the case under consideration ?
16\. We will have in this connection to consider the submission made on behalf
of the cane artiste that such performance would be covered either by the
definition of "artistic work" or "dramatic work" or "cinematograph film" to be
found respectively in Sub-sections (c), (h) and (f) of Section 2 of the
Copyright Act, 1957. If it is so covered, such performance would fall within
the meaning of the word 'work' to be found in Sub-section (y) of Section 2.
17\. It therefore becomes necessary to examine these definitions one by one to
consider whether such submission can be accepted. "Artistic work" has been
defined as meaning a painting, a sculpture, a drawing, an engraving or a
photograph, and it would be clear and obvious that the performance given by an
artiste in a cinematograph film cannot be equated with any of the five
categories indicated; as it is a comprehensive definition; unless expressly
covered, Sub-section (c) would not be of any help to the cine artiste.
18\. The definition of "dramatic work" to be found in Section 2(h) , however,
is an inclusive definition including any piece for recitation, choreographic
work or entertainment in dumb show, the scenic arrangement or acting form of
which is fixed in writing or otherwise. The definition, however, expressly
excludes a cinematograph film by the closing words of Sub-section (h) of
Section 2.
19\. It was submitted that the performance of the cine artiste is acting, the
form of which is fixed in the film and, therefore, would be within the
definition of "dramatic work". Alternatively in connection with this
definition itself is was submitted that since it was an inclusive definition,
even if an actor's performance fixed in the film negative was not expressly
covered by the portion of the definition commencing with the words "any
piece......" and ending with the words "or otherwise", it must be regarded as
a dramatic work by the very nature of things. In connection with the closing
words of the Sub-section which excluded a cinematograph film from the
definition of "work", it was submitted that either a cinematograph film must
be construed as a total film and therefore, only the film which is the final
product of various dramatic works would be excluded, so that the performance
of the actor would still remain within the definition of "dramatic work";
alternatively, it was urged that if the dramatic work of an actor being part
of a cinematograph film were to be excluded by the specific words of Sub-
section (h) of Section 2, then it must necessarily be included within and must
be held covered by the definition of a "cinematograph film" as defined by Sub-
section (f) of Section 2 which is also an inclusive and not a comprehensive'
definition.
20\. Our attention was drawn at the bar to the definition of "dramatic work"
to be found in the English Copyright Acts viz. the Copyright Act, 1911, and
the Copyright Act, 1958, under the Copyright Act, 1911, "dramatic work" is
defined by Section 35 in the following words :
"35. 'Dramatic work' includes any piece for recitation, choreographic work or
entertainment in dumb show, the scenic arrangement or acting form of which is
fixed in writing or otherwise, and any cinematograph production where the
arrangement or acting form or the combination of incidents represented give
the work an original character."
"Dramatic work" has been defined in the following words in Section 48 (1) of
the Copyright Act, 1956 :
"Dramatic work" includes a choreographic work or entertainment in dumb show if
reduced to writing in the form in which the work or entertainment is to be
presented, but does not include a cinematograph film, as distinct from a
scenario or script for a cinematograph film".
It is apparent that the definition in the Indian Copyright Act is
substantially the first part of the definition of "dramatic work" under the
English Copyright Act, 1911, excluding the later portion in the definition
under the English Act concerning cinematograph production.
21\. On a plain reading of the definition of "dramatic work" it is not
possible to accept the submission of learned counsel for the cine artiste that
the motion picture could be regarded as a piece for recitation or a
choreographic work or entertainment in dumb show. Under the definition to be
found in Sub-section (h) of the Copyright Act, 1957, only for a dramatic work
of any of these three types specified i.e. (i) piece for recitation, (ii)
choreographic work or (iii) entertainment in a dumb show would be included,
and then further only where the scenic arrangement or acting form of which (in
the three types) is fixed in writing or otherwise. When this requirement is
satisfied then the work under consideration will amount to a "dramatic work"
which will be protected by the provision contained in the Copyright Act. It is
true that the words "or otherwise" are to be found in the definition of
"dramatic work". But in our opinion these words are there, it seems, only to
provide for the modern means of recording such as a tape-recorder or a dicta
phone and similar instruments. Again, it must be observed that the concluding
portion of the definition of "dramatic work" in the Sub-section, which
excludes a cinematograph film, would seem to clearly shut out any contention
that the dramatic performance of a cine artiste which is fixed or recorded in
the film negative will be "dramatic work" within the meaning of this
definition and therefore protected by the Copyright Act. It is true that the
definition is an inclusive definition; but it would not be permissible to
extend it to cover all cases where the work can be popularly described as
exertions or efforts of a dramatic nature. In this connection it may be
clarified that we are not concerned with the work on a stage or performance in
a drama (which may be of several types) which may or may not be covered by the
definition of "dramatic work". Again, the words "fixed in writing or
otherwise" would seem to suggest a point of time prior to the acting or scenic
arrangement, which requirement would be required to be satisfied before the
work can qualify to be a "dramatic work" and secure protection. It is
debatable whether the record of the acting or scenic arrangement made on a
film after the scene is arranged or acting done or contemporaneous therewith,
would be covered by the definition.
22\. We now have to consider whether the performance of the cine artiste would
fall within the definition of "cinematograph film" to be found in Sub-section
(f) of Section 2. The definition only protects the film as well as the sound
tract which is married to the film proper (i. e. the visual sequence). The
copyright in the entire film may cover portions of the film in the sense that
the owner of the copyright in the film will be entitled to the right in
portions of the film; but this idea or concept cannot be extended to encompass
an idea that there would be one owner of the cinematograph film and different
owners of portions thereof in the sense of performers who have collectively
played roles in the motion picture. In this connection reference may be made
to Indian Performing Right Society Ltd. v. Eastern India Motion Picture
Association, . In paragraph 21 of the report Krishna Iyer J. in an aside (as
expressly indicated in paragraph 20) refers to cinematograph film in the
following words:
"A cinematograph is a felicitus blend, a beautiful totality, a constellation
of stars if I may use these lovely imageries to drive home my point, slurring
over the rule against mixed metaphor. Cinema is more than long strips of
celluloid, more than miracles in photography, more than song, dance and
dialogue and, indeed, more than dramatic story, exciting plot, gripping
situations and marvellous acting. But it is that ensemble which is the
finished product of orchestrated performance by each of the several
participants, although the components may, sometimes, in themselves be elegant
entities. Copyright in a cinema film exists in law, but Section 13(4) of the
Act preserves the separate survival, in its individuality, of a copyright
enjoyed by any 'work' notwithstanding its confluence in the film. This
persistence of the aesthetic 'personality' of the intellectual property cannot
cut down the copyright of the film qua film........."
23\. These words, however, do not take the case of the cine artiste any
further. The question is; whether he has any copyright in his performance? If
there is and it is covered by the definition of 'work' to be found in Sub-
section (y) of Section 2, then it will be protected notwithstanding that the
copyright in the entire film, the composite work, may vest in the producers.
If, however, the performance of the cine artiste does not satisfy this
definition, then there is no question of any dichotomy and co-existence, since
there is no 'work' in the cine artiste's performance which is protected by the
Act. In the view that we have taken of the definition of "artistic work",
"dramatic work" and "cinematograph film", it would appear that the Copyright
Act, 1957, does not recognise the performance of an actor as 'work' which is
protected by the Copyright Act. It may be pointed out that apart from the
Supreme Court case earlier referred to viz. Indian Performing Right Society v.
Eastern India Motion Picture Association, , we had not been referred at the
bar to any judicial decision of the Supreme Court or of a High Court in India
or of any English Court in connection with the claim of copyright of a cine
artiste in his performance considered apart from the copyright in entire film.
Accordingly the matter appears to be res integra and is required to be decided
in accordance with the statutory provisions.
24\. As digression, to utilise the metaphor of Krishna Iyer J. in the above
Supreme Court decision, it would appear to us that the film in its entirety
viz. the mixture or blend in its totality is protected as also perhaps the
small portions of the mixture or blend. The protection, however, is not
available to certain components and elements of this mixture viz. the actor's
performance but may be available to the story, screenplay, scenario or the
music, in case these satisfy the requirement of a written or similar record.
25\. Even if we were to proceed on the footing that there is such copyright
limited to his performance in the artiste which was vested in him expressly by
the agreement dated 1st August 1974, it would not follow that the cine artiste
would be entitled to the injunctions as he has sought for. If we were of the
opinion that agreement or subsequently he has allowed the producers the right
to release the picture unconditionally in certain territories and only
preserving for the protection of his interest certain specified or limited
areas, certainly a cine artiste possessing such copyright (assumed) will be
entitled to protection; but such protection also must be in accord with the
provisions of the agreement and cannot be allowed to travel beyond it. In
other words, applying the above consideration to the actual agreement the
submission was that even on the assumption that the cine artiste did possess
the copyright in his performance, he had either given a licence to the
producers to exploit the picture in the territories not specified in Clause 6
of the agreement or had indicated that he had no objection to such release or
exploitation in these territories and therefore, considering either as a
licence or as an enabling provision, relief by way of injunction was required
to be refused in respect of these territories. In the view that we have taken
that there is no such copyright (as protected by the Copyright Act, 1957), it
is unnecessary to consider the result of such submission. But it appears that
there is considerable force therein. However, in order to succeed as a result
of such submission, the producers have to establish satisfactorily that there
was no restriction on the producers in respect of the territories not
specified in Clause 6 of the letter dated 1st August 1974 and there was no
negative covenant or prohibition against the producers in respect of the non-
specified territories.
26\. It is, therefore, necessary to consider whether under Clause 7 of the
said letter of 1st August 1974 the bargain between the parties was that until
the full amount of Rs. 7,00,000/- was paid to the cine artiste, the producers
would not be entitled to exhibit the picture at all in any of the territories.
It is the cine artiste's case that there was such absolute prohibition with a
relaxation to be found in the last sentence of Clause 7 which enabled the
producers to release the picture in the seven specified territories mentioned
in Clause 6 on payment of the respective amounts mentioned in the said clause.
This however, according to learned counsel for the cine artiste, could not
affect the prohibition against the release of the said picture in all other
territories not mentioned in Clause 6, which would include the Overseas and
the Bombay Circuit as known to the film trade. It was submitted by him that
unless the last sentence of Clause 7 is read in the manner as suggested by him
as containing a relaxation or enabling the producers in certain contingencies
to get out of the absolute bar imposed by the earlier part, it would mean that
there are two prohibitions or negative covenants to be found in clause 7-- (i)
the wider absolute one covering all territories, and (ii) the one to be found
"in the last sentence, a restricted one, pertaining only to the seven
territories mentioned in Clause 6. In connection with this aspect of the
argument it was submitted that where a wider right was conferred under the
earlier part of the disposition or agreement, the later direction should be
disregarded as an unsuccessful attempt to restrict or abridge the wider right
already conferred. In this connection the learned counsel for the cine artiste
cited before us a decision of the Supreme Court in Ramkishorelal v.
Kamalnarayan, , where the aforesaid principle of construction is indicated
with approval in paragraph 12 of the report. It is, however, to be noticed
from this very decision that an attempt is required to be made in the first
instance to read all paragraphs of a document harmoniously if possible.
Further---and this caveat is indicated by the Supreme Court itself -- if it is
found with some certainty that an absolute or a wider right is earlier given,
then only the later purported curtailment or restriction thereof may be
ignored or disregarded. In the case of the document under consideration i. e.
the letter dated 1st August 1974, when Clauses 6 and 7 thereof are read
together harmoniously, as we must do, it is impossible to hold that any wider
prohibition was imposed on the producers or an absolute right given to the
cine artiste, as contended on his behalf, pertaining to all territories
including the territories other than those specified in Clause 6. The words
containing this alleged wider prohibition themselves suggest and indicate that
the restriction or prohibition is confined to the seven territories mentioned
in Clause 6. This will be found and must be the effect to be given to the
words "until full payments as per Clause 6 above are secured". Read in this
manner, we will find no conflict between these words and the last sentence of
Clause 7, nor will we be forced or constrained to read the last sentence of
Clause 7 as the enabling provision or relaxation by way of locus penetentia
given to the producers, mitigating or reducing the rigour of the absolute
earlier prohibition. On a proper reading of the letter dated 1st August 1974
we have no doubt that the rights secured by the cine artiste were confined to
and only for the seven territories mentioned in Clause 6 and these were also
the subject matter of the express negative covenant enjoined against the
producers by Clause 7. If that were so, it would follow that there is no
negative covenant which could be enforced against the producers in respect of
the territories not specified in Clause 6; and even if in respect of these
seven territories the negative covenant which can be declared or enforced must
be in accordance with what is provided therein. It may be mentioned here that
the order passed by us on 27th February 1978 is expressly in accordance with
what is provided in clause 6 as modified by the letters dated 3rd and 4th
December 1976 though in respect of one territory viz. the Bengal circuit, our
order provides for retaining in Court the amount of Rs. 3,00,000/-(three
lakhs), as it had been contended by the producers that there is payment in
respect of this amount though no receipt was passed.
27\. It was submitted by counsel on behalf of the producers that if the
bargain between the parties was not clear and unequivocal and it was capable
of either construction, then the benefit of the doubt must be given to the
producers as it was the cine artiste who was applying to the Court for
necessary relief by way of interim injunction. On the other hand, it was
submitted on behalf of the cine artiste that bearing in mind the fact that the
provisions in the agreement were for protection of the amounts payable to him
and as admittedly a large amount is still remaining outstanding, the benefit
of the doubt, if any, should go to the cine artiste and he should be protected
by necessary deposit even in respect of the territories not specified by
Clause 6. It was further submitted on behalf of the producers that applying
the principle of balance of convenience also, relief was required to be
refused to the cine artiste at the interim stage since the injury which was
likely to be caused to the producers by granting such relief in a doubtful
case was far likely to outweigh the injury to the cine artiste who was refused
release in such a doubtful case at the interim stage. Finally, it was
submitted on behalf of the producers that if proper construction of the
agreement was doubtful and the rights and obligations of the parties not
clear, the injunc-
tion ought to be refused in respect of the unspecified territories as rights
of third parties were likely to be affected and the third parties prejudiced,
particularly the distributors who had secured the rights in respect of the
Bombay and Overseas Circuit of payment of substantial amounts. Reliance was
also placed on the release of the picture in the East Punjab territory, which
is one of the territories not specified in Clause 6. We do not wish to base
our order on the release in the East Punjab territory or on the purported
agreement with G.N. Shah (HUF) for the Bombay and Overseas Circuit. These
involve disputed questions of fact which cannot be satisfactorily decided on
affidavits. We have based the order to be made in appeal which is in
accordance with the order earlier made by us on the Notice of Motion on a
proper reading of the agreement of 1st August 1974 which contains the bargain
between the parties. We have construed the agreement applying the principle of
harmonious construction as enunciated by the Supreme Court in Ramkishorelal's
case above cited.
28\. If there had been some doubt in our mind as to the proper construction to
be placed on the said agreement, it is found that this doubt is resolved and
the position clinched in favour of the producers by reason of the letters
dated 3rd and 4th December 1976, part of Exhibit B (Collectively) to the
plaint These letters do not constitute mere communication between the
producers and the cine laboratory. The letter of the cine laboratory encloses
a photostat copy of the producer's letter and is subsequently addressed to the
cine artiste; the same is duly confirmed by him at the foot thereof. Thus we
must proceed on the footing that the arrangement recorded in these letters
which is confirmed by the cine artiste is in accordance with the bargain
between the parties. We have then to consider whether the arrangement recorded
in these letters is consistent with the claim of the cine artiste to have a
negative covenant in respect of all territories or is more consistent with the
claim of the producers that there was no protection or prohibition qua the
unspecified territories i. e. the circuits not specified in Clause 6. It may
be mentioned that by these letters the seven territories specified in the
earlier letter are again mentioned though the amounts provided against them,
on payment of which release can be made in the territories, have been altered.
To turn first to the letter of the producers to the laboratory, we find in the
penultimate paragraph an agreement and undertaking to the effect on the part
of the producers that they would not direct the laboratory to deliver any
release print or prints for the seven circuits mentioned in the letter
(identical with the seven circuits mentioned in Clause 6 of the letter of 1st
August, 1974) till certain dues as specified remain with the laboratory for
payment to the cine artiste. The cine laboratory thereafter on the next day
addressed their letter to the cine artiste confirming that they would not part
with the release prints of the motion picture for the said seven territories
until the amounts specified against each territory are available for being
paid to the cine artiste. The letter concludes with the following words :
"Please note that we shall not be responsible or liable in any manner, if any
print or prints delivered to any other territory are released directly or
indirectly in the above territories or part thereof." It is this letter of the
laboratory together with the enclosed photostat copy of the letter of the
producers which is confirmed by the cine artiste. Now, what does this letter
indicate ? It indicates that the obligation not to release the print or prints
of the film is restricted to the seven territories or circuits specified in
the letter which are identical with the seven territories specified in Clause
6 of the agreement dated 1st August, 1974. In the final paragraph the cine
laboratory claims protection in respect of any misuse which may be made by the
distributors or exploiters or exhibitors in the circuits or territories other
than these seven and this clearly postulates, in our opinion, that such
release was not protected or prohibited but was contemplated, which is in
accordance with, the construction sought to be put on the agreement dated 1st
August 1974 by the producers and is expressly contrary to the construction
sought to be put on that agreement by the cine artiste. Our attention was
drawn to similar provisions to be found in the letters addressed by the
laboratory to Mavani and G.N. Shah. It was submitted that these were identical
paragraphs included by the laboratory in all their correspondence seeking
similar protection against misuse and must not be regarded as qualifying or
restricting or clarifying the rights of the parties, which would depend only
upon the proper construction to be put on the agreement dated 1st August, 1974
It is however, to be noted that whereas Mavani was concerned with the East
Punjab Territory only and G.N. Shah with Bombay and Overseas circuits only and
therefore not concerned with or entitled to any right in other territories,
the cine artiste claims right not merely in respect of the seven specified
territories but an absolute and wider right in respect of all other
territories. What may be proper to be put in the case of Mavani and G.N. Shah
would appear to be totally improper to be put in the letter addressed to the
cine artiste if he had any right in the territories other than the seven
specified in that letter. The very fact that he had continued the letter of
the laboratory would seem to suggest that the rights of the cine artiste are
restricted only to seven specified territories and do not extend to the other
unspecified territories. This is fully in accord with the interpretation which
we have put on clauses 6 and 7 of the agreement dated 1st August 1974.
29\. One final fact may be mentioned. The only correspondence between the
parties prior to the filing of the suit is the cine artiste's Advocate's
letter dated 10th December 1977 which confirms a telegram having been sent on
that day, which is fully set out. It may be mentioned that in the said
telegram the claim of the cine artiste is founded on a claim of copyright in
the picture and not on any express negative covenant or prohibition. It would
not be proper however, to construe an agreement or agreements by reference to
what is stated in this letter inasmuch as it is obvious that it was addressed
in a hurry and was merely the record of a telegram which by its very nature
cannot indicate fully all the contentions of the parties.
30\. In the view that we have taken of the proper construction of the
agreement, we find that the rights of the cine artiste are restricted to the
seven specified territories, which would mean that any injunction to which he
is entitled must at present be restricted to the Bengal, Nizam, Tamil Nadu and
Andhra territories (since it has been released in the other three). By our
order 27th February 1978 we have in the Notice of Motion in the appeal
modified the wide injunction granted by the trial Court and restricted the
injunction for the cine artiste only to these four territories in the manner
as indicated in our order. As that order was in the Notice of Motion pending
the hearing and final disposal of the appeal} which is being disposed of
finally by this judgment and order, we pass the very same order in this appeal
in the following terms :
31\. The appeal is allowed and the order passed by Gadgil J. on 3rd January
1978 in the Notice of Motion is set aside and the same shall stand substituted
by the following orders and injunctions:
32\. Pending the hearing and final disposal of the suit, the 1st defendants to
the suit are restrained in terms of prayer (h) (i), (h) (ii) and (h) (iii) of
the plaint from releasing the said motion picture "DARLING DARLING" in the
territory known to the film trade as the Bengal territory before depositing in
this Court the sum of Rs. 4,00,000/- (four lakhs).
33\. Pending the hearing and final disposal of the suit, the 1st defendants
are restrained in the above terms from releasing the said motion picture
"DARLING DARLING" in the Nizam territory before depositing in this Court or
paying to the plaintiff the sum of Rs. 75,000/- (seventy five thousand).
34\. Pending the hearing and final disposal of the suit, the 1st defendants
are restrained in the above terms from releasing the said motion picture
"DARING DARLING" in the Tamil Nadu territory before depositing in this Court
or paying to the plaintiff the sum of Rs. 25,000/- (twenty five thousand).
35\. Pending the hearing and final disposal of the suit, the 1st defendants
are restrained in the above terms from releasing the said motion picture
"DARLING DARLING" in the Andhra territory before depositing in this Court or
paying to the plaintiff the sum of Rs. 25,000/- (twenty five thousand).
36\. It is declared that the plaintiff is not entitled to any interim
injunction in respect of the territories other than the four territories
designated above, with the result that the interim injunction in respect of
the release of the said picture for all other territories, which had been
granted by the trial Court, is set aside. Indeed, by our order on the Notice
of Motion we have already vacated the interim injunction in respect of these
territories.
37\. In the event of the 1st defendants depositing in this Court the sum of
Rupees 4,00,000/- (four lakhs) prior to the release of the said picture in the
Bengal territory as hereinabove ordered, the plaintiff to be at liberty to
withdraw therefrom the sum of Rs. 1,00,000/- (one lakh). The balance of Rs.
3,00,000/- (three lakhs) to be kept as deposit pending the hearing and final
disposal of the suit. The Prothonotary and Senior Master is directed to invest
the same in Fixed deposit in the State Bank of India or any other nationalised
bank for a period of 13 (thirteen) months in the first instance; such deposit
to be renewed from time to time for each subsequent period of 13 (thirteen)
months in the principal amount together with the accrued interest until
further orders of the Court.
38\. In case the other amounts for the other territories are deposited in this
Court, the same to be paid to the plaintiff.
39\. As the appeal has succeeded, the appellants are entitled to the costs of
the appeal as well as the costs of the Notice of Motion in this Court and
before the trial Court. These costs are quantified in the aggregate at Rs.
1,500/- (one thousand and five hundred). The appellants are also entitled to
the usual order for refund of the amount deposited by them in this Court as
security for costs of the appeal. There will be orders accordingly.
40\. Mr. Desai on behalf of the cine artiste applies for continuation of the
status quo and for stay of the order passed in this appeal.
41\. In our opinion, the application is totally misconceived inasmuch as the
order passed in appeal merely confirms the order which we made on the Notice
of motion in the appeal, which order was passed on 27th Feb. 1978. Thus the
status quo existing today is in accord with the final orders passed in appeal.
There can be no question of any stay therefore or of reviving the order which
was in force prior to 27th February 1978.
42\. Mr. Desai then applies for a certificate under Article 133(1) of the
Constitution of India for leave to appeal to the Supreme Court of India. Mr.
Desai submits that the claims of a cine artiste of nature involved in the suit
are decided for the first time and the question whether the Indian Copyright
Act, 1957, would protect his performance is now decided by this order.
43\. The ultimate order, in our opinion, mainly turns upon the proper
interpretation of the agreement dated 1st August 1974 and we are, therefore,
of opinion that this is not an appropriate case for the grant of a certificate
under Article 133(1) of the Constitution as it now stands. The application of
Mr. Desai is, therefore, rejected.
44\. The Prothonotary to act on the minutes of this order on the usual
undertaking of the appellant's Advocate to have the order drawn up.
45\. Order accordingly.
status quo and for stay of the order passed in this appeal.
41\. In our opinion, the application is totally misconceived inasmuch as the
order passed in appeal merely confirms the order which we made on the Notice
of motion in the appeal, which order was passed on 27th Feb. 1978. Thus the
status quo existing today is in accord with the final orders passed in appeal.
There can be no question of any stay therefore or of reviving the order which
was in force prior to 27th February 1978.
42\. Mr. Desai then applies for a certificate under Article 133(1) of the
Constitution of India for leave to appeal to the Supreme Court of India. Mr.
Desai submits that the claims of a cine artiste of nature involved in the suit
are decided for the first time and the question whether the Indian Copyright
Act, 1957, would protect his performance is now decided by this order.
43\. The ultimate order, in our opinion, mainly turns upon the proper
interpretation of the agreement dated 1st August 1974 and we are, therefore,
of opinion that this is not an appropriate case for the grant of a certificate
under Article 133(1) of the Constitution as it now stands. The application of
February 1978 we heard fairly detailed arguments lasting for nearly three to
four hours on the appellant's Notice of Motion, and after this hearing we
reduced the ambit of the injunctions granted in favour of the plaintiff and
restricted them to four of the specified territories mentioned in clause 6 of
Exhibit A and vacated the injuctions for the territories not specified in
Clause 6. At the conclusion of the arguments and before passing the order on
the Notice of Motion we had asked counsel for the parties whether they desired
to convert the hearing of the Notice of Motion in the Appeal to the hearing of
the Appeal itself. After taking instructions the learned counsel for the
appellants was agreeable for this course; but on behalf of the 1st respondents
(original plaintiff) it was stated to us that the respondent did not wish to
convert the hearing of the Notice of Motion into the hearing of the Appeal.
Accordingly we only made the operative order. It is in these circumstances
that the appeal has subsequently been re-heard, though it must be stated that
somewhat more detailed arguments have been advanced today.
4\. In order to appreciate the rival controversy, a few facts may be stated:
The plaintiff (the 1st respondent before us) is a cine artiste and will be
hereinafter referred to as "The Cine Artiste" for the sake of brevity. The
appellants before us are the producers of ft motion picture in Hindi language
entitled "DARLING DARLING"; they will be hereinafter referred to as "the
status quo and for stay of the order passed in this appeal.
41\. In our opinion, the application is totally misconceived inasmuch as the
order passed in appeal merely confirms the order which we made on the Notice
of motion in the appeal, which order was passed on 27th Feb. 1978. Thus the
status quo existing today is in accord with the final orders passed in appeal.
There can be no question of any stay therefore or of reviving the order which
was in force prior to 27th February 1978.
42\. Mr. Desai then applies for a certificate under Article 133(1) of the
Constitution of India for leave to appeal to the Supreme Court of India. Mr.
Desai submits that the claims of a cine artiste of nature involved in the suit
are decided for the first time and the question whether the Indian Copyright
Act, 1957, would protect his performance is now decided by this order.
43\. The ultimate order, in our opinion, mainly turns upon the proper
interpretation of the agreement dated 1st August 1974 and we are, therefore,
of opinion that this is not an appropriate case for the grant of a certificate
under Article 133(1) of the Constitution as it now stands. The application of
February 1978 we heard fairly detailed arguments lasting for nearly three to
four hours on the appellant's Notice of Motion, and after this hearing we
reduced the ambit of the injunctions granted in favour of the plaintiff and
restricted them to four of the specified territories mentioned in clause 6 of
Exhibit A and vacated the injuctions for the territories not specified in
Clause 6. At the conclusion of the arguments and before passing the order on
the Notice of Motion we had asked counsel for the parties whether they desired
to convert the hearing of the Notice of Motion in the Appeal to the hearing of
the Appeal itself. After taking instructions the learned counsel for the
appellants was agreeable for this course; but on behalf of the 1st respondents
(original plaintiff) it was stated to us that the respondent did not wish to
convert the hearing of the Notice of Motion into the hearing of the Appeal.
Accordingly we only made the operative order. It is in these circumstances
that the appeal has subsequently been re-heard, though it must be stated that
somewhat more detailed arguments have been advanced today.
4\. In order to appreciate the rival controversy, a few facts may be stated:
The plaintiff (the 1st respondent before us) is a cine artiste and will be
hereinafter referred to as "The Cine Artiste" for the sake of brevity. The
appellants before us are the producers of ft motion picture in Hindi language
entitled "DARLING DARLING"; they will be hereinafter referred to as "the
status quo and for stay of the order passed in this appeal.
41\. In our opinion, the application is totally misconceived inasmuch as the
order passed in appeal merely confirms the order which we made on the Notice
of motion in the appeal, which order was passed on 27th Feb. 1978. Thus the
status quo existing today is in accord with the final orders passed in appeal.
There can be no question of any stay therefore or of reviving the order which
was in force prior to 27th February 1978.
42\. Mr. Desai then applies for a certificate under Article 133(1) of the
Constitution of India for leave to appeal to the Supreme Court of India. Mr.
Desai submits that the claims of a cine artiste of nature involved in the suit
are decided for the first time and the question whether the Indian Copyright
Act, 1957, would protect his performance is now decided by this order.
43\. The ultimate order, in our opinion, mainly turns upon the proper
interpretation of the agreement dated 1st August 1974 and we are, therefore,
of opinion that this is not an appropriate case for the grant of a certificate
under Article 133(1) of the Constitution as it now stands. The application of
February 1978 we heard fairly detailed arguments lasting for nearly three to
four hours on the appellant's Notice of Motion, and after this hearing we
reduced the ambit of the injunctions granted in favour of the plaintiff and
restricted them to four of the specified territories mentioned in clause 6 of
Exhibit A and vacated the injuctions for the territories not specified in
Clause 6. At the conclusion of the arguments and before passing the order on
the Notice of Motion we had asked counsel for the parties whether they desired
to convert the hearing of the Notice of Motion in the Appeal to the hearing of
the Appeal itself. After taking instructions the learned counsel for the
appellants was agreeable for this course; but on behalf of the 1st respondents
(original plaintiff) it was stated to us that the respondent did not wish to
convert the hearing of the Notice of Motion into the hearing of the Appeal.
Accordingly we only made the operative order. It is in these circumstances
that the appeal has subsequently been re-heard, though it must be stated that
somewhat more detailed arguments have been advanced today.
4\. In order to appreciate the rival controversy, a few facts may be stated:
The plaintiff (the 1st respondent before us) is a cine artiste and will be
hereinafter referred to as "The Cine Artiste" for the sake of brevity. The
appellants before us are the producers of ft motion picture in Hindi language
entitled "DARLING DARLING"; they will be hereinafter referred to as "the
producers". The 2nd defendant to the suit were M/s. Navrang Cine Centre
Private Ltd., a Laboratory carrying on business of processing cinematograph
films; they will hereinafter be referred to as ''the laboratory".
5\. According to the producers, they engaged the Cine Artiste's services some
time in December 1972 and the production of the film commenced some time in
May 1973 with the "muhurat Shot". It is alleged by the producers (though
disputed by the cine artiste) that in July 1973 they had entered into an
agreement with one Mavani for the East Punjab territory and in July 1974 with
one G.N. Shah (HUF) for the Bombay and Overseas territories. It is their case
further, which is again disputed by the cine artiste, that by 1st August 1974
about eight reels of the said motion picture were completed. It is on that day
status quo and for stay of the order passed in this appeal.
41\. In our opinion, the application is totally misconceived inasmuch as the
order passed in appeal merely confirms the order which we made on the Notice
of motion in the appeal, which order was passed on 27th Feb. 1978. Thus the
status quo existing today is in accord with the final orders passed in appeal.
There can be no question of any stay therefore or of reviving the order which
was in force prior to 27th February 1978.
42\. Mr. Desai then applies for a certificate under Article 133(1) of the
Constitution of India for leave to appeal to the Supreme Court of India. Mr.
Desai submits that the claims of a cine artiste of nature involved in the suit
are decided for the first time and the question whether the Indian Copyright
Act, 1957, would protect his performance is now decided by this order.
43\. The ultimate order, in our opinion, mainly turns upon the proper
interpretation of the agreement dated 1st August 1974 and we are, therefore,
of opinion that this is not an appropriate case for the grant of a certificate
under Article 133(1) of the Constitution as it now stands. The application of
February 1978 we heard fairly detailed arguments lasting for nearly three to
four hours on the appellant's Notice of Motion, and after this hearing we
reduced the ambit of the injunctions granted in favour of the plaintiff and
restricted them to four of the specified territories mentioned in clause 6 of
Exhibit A and vacated the injuctions for the territories not specified in
Clause 6. At the conclusion of the arguments and before passing the order on
the Notice of Motion we had asked counsel for the parties whether they desired
to convert the hearing of the Notice of Motion in the Appeal to the hearing of
the Appeal itself. After taking instructions the learned counsel for the
appellants was agreeable for this course; but on behalf of the 1st respondents
(original plaintiff) it was stated to us that the respondent did not wish to
convert the hearing of the Notice of Motion into the hearing of the Appeal.
Accordingly we only made the operative order. It is in these circumstances
that the appeal has subsequently been re-heard, though it must be stated that
somewhat more detailed arguments have been advanced today.
4\. In order to appreciate the rival controversy, a few facts may be stated:
The plaintiff (the 1st respondent before us) is a cine artiste and will be
hereinafter referred to as "The Cine Artiste" for the sake of brevity. The
appellants before us are the producers of ft motion picture in Hindi language
entitled "DARLING DARLING"; they will be hereinafter referred to as "the
producers". The 2nd defendant to the suit were M/s. Navrang Cine Centre
Private Ltd., a Laboratory carrying on business of processing cinematograph
films; they will hereinafter be referred to as ''the laboratory".
5\. According to the producers, they engaged the Cine Artiste's services some
time in December 1972 and the production of the film commenced some time in
May 1973 with the "muhurat Shot". It is alleged by the producers (though
disputed by the cine artiste) that in July 1973 they had entered into an
agreement with one Mavani for the East Punjab territory and in July 1974 with
one G.N. Shah (HUF) for the Bombay and Overseas territories. It is their case
further, which is again disputed by the cine artiste, that by 1st August 1974
about eight reels of the said motion picture were completed. It is on that day
status quo and for stay of the order passed in this appeal.
41\. In our opinion, the application is totally misconceived inasmuch as the
order passed in appeal merely confirms the order which we made on the Notice
of motion in the appeal, which order was passed on 27th Feb. 1978. Thus the
status quo existing today is in accord with the final orders passed in appeal.
There can be no question of any stay therefore or of reviving the order which
was in force prior to 27th February 1978.
42\. Mr. Desai then applies for a certificate under Article 133(1) of the
Constitution of India for leave to appeal to the Supreme Court of India. Mr.
Desai submits that the claims of a cine artiste of nature involved in the suit
are decided for the first time and the question whether the Indian Copyright
Act, 1957, would protect his performance is now decided by this order.
43\. The ultimate order, in our opinion, mainly turns upon the proper
interpretation of the agreement dated 1st August 1974 and we are, therefore,
of opinion that this is not an appropriate case for the grant of a certificate
under Article 133(1) of the Constitution as it now stands. The application of
