Supreme Court of India
Navtej Singh Johar vs Union Of India Ministry Of Law And ... on 6 September,
2018
Author: ……………………………….
                                                             1
                                                                           REPORTABLE
                                           IN THE SUPREME COURT OF INDIA
                                           CRIMINAL ORIGINAL JURISDICTION
                                       WRIT PETITION (CRIMINAL) NO. 76 OF 2016
                             NAVTEJ SINGH JOHAR & ORS.                     …Petitioner(s)
                                                         VERSUS
                             UNION OF INDIA
                             THR. SECRETARY
                             MINISTRY OF LAW AND JUSTICE                    …Respondent(s)
                                                           WITH
                                        WRIT PETITION (CIVIL) NO. 572 OF 2016
                                       WRIT PETITION (CRIMINAL) NO. 88 OF 2018
                                       WRIT PETITION (CRIMINAL) NO. 100 OF 2018
                                       WRIT PETITION (CRIMINAL) NO. 101 OF 2018
                                       WRIT PETITION (CRIMINAL) NO. 121 OF 2018
persons above the age of 18 years who are competent to consent) in private, is
violative of Articles 14, 15, 19, and 21 of the Constitution.
It is, however, clarified that such consent must be free consent, which is
completely voluntary in nature, and devoid of any duress or coercion. ii. The
declaration of the aforesaid reading down of Section 377 shall not, however,
lead to the re- opening of any concluded prosecutions, but can certainly be
relied upon in all pending matters whether they are at the trial, appellate,
or revisional stages.
                      iii.      The provisions of Section 377 will continue to
                                govern   non-consensual      sexual   acts   against
adults, all acts of carnal intercouse against minors, and acts of beastiality.
iv. The judgment in Suresh Kumar Koushal & Anr.
v. Naz Foundation & Ors.57 is hereby overruled for the reasons stated in
paragraph 19.
57 (2014) 1 SCC 1  51 The Reference is answered accordingly.
In view of the above findings, the Writ Petitions are allowed.
                                       WRIT PETITION (CRIMINAL) NO. 121 OF 2018
                                                     JUDGMENT
Dipak Misra, CJI (for himself and A.M. Khanwilkar, J.) CONTENTS S. No(s).
Heading Page No(s) Signature Not Verified A. Introduction………………………………………… 3-11
Digitally signed by CHETAN KUMAR The Reference……………………………………… Date: 2018.09.06
15:12:35 IST Reason: B. 11-15  2 C. Submissions on behalf of the petitioners……
15-30 D. Submissions on behalf of the respondents and other
intervenors.………………………….… 31-44 E. Decisions in Naz Foundation and Suresh
Koushal………………..…………………………….. 45-48 F. Other judicial pronouncements on Section
377 IPC ……………………….………………………….. 48-57 G. The Constitution – an organic charter
of progressive rights………………………………… 57-64 H. Transformative constitutionalism
and the rights of LGBT community………………………. 65-74 I. Constitutional morality
and Section 377 IPC…. 74-81 J. Perspective of human dignity…………………… 81-89 K.
Sexual orientation…………………………………. 89-96 L. Privacy and its concomitant
aspects…………... 96-111 M. Doctrine of progressive realization of
rights…………………………………………………. 111-118 N. International perspective…………………………. 118
(i) United States……………………………… 118-122
(ii) Canada…………………………………….. 123-125  (iii) South Africa………………………………. 125
(iv) United Kingdom…………………………. 126-127
(v) Other Courts/Jurisdictions…………….. 127-129  3 O. Comparative analysis of
Section 375 and Section 377 IPC………………………………….… 129-140 P. The litmus test for
survival of Section 377 IPC…….……………………………………………… 140-156 Q.
Conclusions………………………………………… 156-166 A. Introduction Not for nothing, the great
German thinker, Johann Wolfgang von Goethe, had said, ―I am what I am, so take
me as I am‖ and similarly, Arthur Schopenhauer had pronounced, ―No one can
escape from their individuality‖. In this regard, it is profitable to quote a
few lines from John Stuart Mill:-
―But society has now fairly got the better of individuality;
and the danger which threatens human nature is not the excess, but the
deficiency of personal impulses and preferences.‖ The emphasis on the unique
being of an individual is the salt of his/her life. Denial of self-expression
is inviting death. Irreplaceability of individuality and identity is grant of
respect to self. This realization is one‘s signature and self-determined
design. One defines oneself. That is the glorious form of individuality. In
the present case, our  4 deliberation and focus on the said concept shall be
from various spectrums.
2\. Shakespeare through one of his characters in a play says ―What‘s in a
name? That which we call a rose by any other name would smell as sweet‖. The
said phrase, in its basic sense, conveys that what really matters is the
essential qualities of the substance and the fundamental characteristics of an
entity but not the name by which it or a person is called. Getting further
deeper into the meaning, it is understood that the name may be a convenient
concept for identification but the essence behind the same is the core of
identity. Sans identity, the name only remains a denotative term. Therefore,
the identity is pivotal to one‘s being. Life bestows honour on it and freedom
of living, as a facet of life, expresses genuine desire to have it. The said
desire, one is inclined to think, is satisfied by the conception of
constitutional recognition, and hence, emphasis is laid on the identity of an
individual which is conceived under the Constitution. And the sustenance of
identity is the filament of life. It is equivalent to authoring one‘s own life
script where freedom broadens everyday. Identity is equivalent to divinity.  5
3\. The overarching ideals of individual autonomy and liberty, equality for
all sans discrimination of any kind, recognition of identity with dignity and
privacy of human beings constitute the cardinal four corners of our monumental
Constitution forming the concrete substratum of our fundamental rights that
has eluded certain sections of our society who are still living in the bondage
of dogmatic social norms, prejudiced notions, rigid stereotypes, parochial
mindset and bigoted perceptions. Social exclusion, identity seclusion and
isolation from the social mainstream are still the stark realities faced by
individuals today and it is only when each and every individual is liberated
from the shackles of such bondage and is able to work towards full development
of his/her personality that we can call ourselves a truly free society. The
first step on the long path to acceptance of the diversity and variegated hues
that nature has created has to be taken now by vanquishing the enemies of
prejudice and injustice and undoing the wrongs done so as to make way for a
progressive and inclusive realisation of social and economic rights embracing
all and to begin a dialogue for ensuring equal rights and opportunities for
the ―less than equal‖ sections of the society. We have to bid adieu to the
perceptions, stereotypes and prejudices  6 deeply ingrained in the societal
mindset so as to usher in inclusivity in all spheres and empower all citizens
alike without any kind of alienation and discrimination.
4\. The natural identity of an individual should be treated to be absolutely
essential to his being. What nature gives is natural. That is called nature
within. Thus, that part of the personality of a person has to be respected and
not despised or looked down upon. The said inherent nature and the associated
natural impulses in that regard are to be accepted. Non-acceptance of it by
any societal norm or notion and punishment by law on some obsolete idea and
idealism affects the kernel of the identity of an individual. Destruction of
individual identity would tantamount to crushing of intrinsic dignity that
cumulatively encapsulates the values of privacy, choice, freedom of speech and
other expressions. It can be viewed from another angle. An individual in
exercise of his choice may feel that he/she should be left alone but no one,
and we mean, no one, should impose solitude on him/her.
5\. The eminence of identity has been luculently stated in National Legal
Services Authority v. Union of India and others1, popularly 1 (2014) 5 SCC 438
7 known as NALSA case, wherein the Court was dwelling upon the status of
identity of the transgenders. Radhakrishnan, J., after referring to catena of
judgments and certain International Covenants, opined that gender identity is
one of the most fundamental aspects of life which refers to a person‘s
intrinsic sense of being male, female or transgender or transsexual person. A
person‘s sex is usually assigned at birth, but a relatively small group of
persons may be born with bodies which incorporate both or certain aspects of
both male and female physiology. The learned Judge further observed that at
times, genital anatomy problems may arise in certain persons in the sense that
their innate perception of themselves is not in conformity with the sex
assigned to them at birth and may include pre-and post- operative transsexual
persons and also persons who do not choose to undergo or do not have access to
operation and also include persons who cannot undergo successful operation.
Elaborating further, he said:-
> ―Gender identity refers to each person‘s deeply felt internal and individual
> experience of gender, which may or may not correspond with the sex assigned
> at birth, including the personal sense of the body which may involve a
> freely chosen, modification of bodily appearance or functions by medical,
> surgical or other means and other expressions of gender, including dress,
> speech and mannerisms. Gender identity,  8 therefore, refers to an
> individual‘s self-identification as a man, woman, transgender or other
> identified category.‖
6\. Adverting to the concept of discrimination, he stated:-
> ―The discrimination on the ground of ―sex‖ under Articles 15 and 16,
> therefore, includes discrimination on the ground of gender identity. The
> expression ―sex‖ used in Articles 15 and 16 is not just limited to
> biological sex of male or female, but intended to include people who
> consider themselves to be neither male nor female.‖
7\. Dealing with the legality of transgender identity, Radhakrishnan, J.
ruled:-
> ―The self-identified gender can be either male or female or a third gender.
> Hijras are identified as persons of third gender and are not identified
> either as male or female. Gender identity, as already indicated, refers to a
> person‘s internal sense of being male, female or a transgender, for example
> hijras do not identify as female because of their lack of female genitalia
> or lack of reproductive capability. This distinction makes them separate
> from both male and female genders and they consider themselves neither man
> nor woman, but a ―third gender‖.‖
8\. Sikri, J., in his concurring opinion, dwelling upon the rights of
transgenders, laid down that gender identification is an essential component
which is required for enjoying civil rights by the community. It is only with
this recognition that many rights attached to the sexual recognition as ―third
gender‖ would be available to the said  9 community more meaningfully viz. the
right to vote, the right to own property, the right to marry, the right to
claim a formal identity through a passport and a ration card, a driver‘s
licence, the right to education, employment, health and so on. Emphasising on
the aspect of human rights, he observed:-
> ―…there seems to be no reason why a transgender must be denied of basic
> human rights which includes right to life and liberty with dignity, right to
> privacy and freedom of expression, right to education and empowerment, right
> against violence, right against exploitation and right against
> discrimination. The Constitution has fulfilled its duty of providing rights
> to transgenders. Now it is time for us to recognise this and to extend and
> interpret the Constitution in such a manner to ensure a dignified life for
> transgender people. All this can be achieved if the beginning is made with
> the recognition of TG as third gender.‖ The aforesaid judgment, as is
> manifest, lays focus on inalienable ―gender identity‖ and correctly connects
> with human rights and the constitutionally guaranteed right to life and
> liberty with dignity.
It lays stress on the judicial recognition of such rights as an inextricable
component of Article 21 of the Constitution and decries any discrimination as
that would offend Article 14, the ―fon juris‖ of our Constitution.
9\. It has to be borne in mind that search for identity as a basic human ideal
has reigned the mind of every individual in many a  10 sphere like success,
fame, economic prowess, political assertion, celebrity status and social
superiority, etc. But search for identity, in order to have apposite space in
law, sans stigmas and sans fear has to have the freedom of expression about
his/her being which is keenly associated with the constitutional concept of
―identity with dignity‖. When we talk about identity from the constitutional
spectrum, it cannot be pigeon-holed singularly to one‘s orientation that may
be associated with his/her birth and the feelings he/she develops when he/she
grows up. Such a narrow perception may initially sound to subserve the purpose
of justice but on a studied scrutiny, it is soon realized that the limited
recognition keeps the individual choice at bay. The question that is required
to be posed here is whether sexual orientation alone is to be protected or
both orientation and choice are to be accepted as long as the exercise of
these rights by an individual do not affect another‘s choice or, to put it
succinctly, has the consent of the other where dignity of both is maintained
and privacy, as a seminal facet of Article 21, is not dented. At the core of
the concept of identity lies self-determination, realization of one‘s own
abilities visualizing the opportunities and rejection of external views with a
clear conscience that is in accord with constitutional norms and  11 values or
principles that are, to put in a capsule, ―constitutionally permissible‖. As
long as it is lawful, one is entitled to determine and follow his/her pattern
of life. And that is where the distinction between constitutional morality and
social morality or ethicality assumes a distinguished podium, a different
objective. Non-recognition in the fullest sense and denial of expression of
choice by a statutory penal provision and giving of stamp of approval by a
two-Judge Bench of this Court to the said penal provision, that is, Section
377 of the Indian Penal Code, in Suresh Kumar Koushal and another v. Naz
Foundation and others2 overturning the judgment of the Delhi High Court in Naz
Foundation v. Government of NCT of Delhi and others3, is the central issue
involved in the present controversy.
B. The Reference
10\. Writ Petition (Criminal) No. 76 of 2016 was filed for declaring ―right to
sexuality‖, ―right to sexual autonomy‖ and ―right to choice of a sexual
partner‖ to be part of the right to life guaranteed under Article 21 of the
Constitution of India and further to declare Section 377 of the Indian Penal
Code (for short, ―IPC‖) to be unconstitutional. When the said Writ Petition
was listed before a three-Judge Bench on 2 (2014) 1 SCC 1 3 (2009) 111 DRJ 1
12 08.01.2018, the Court referred to a two-Judge Bench decision rendered in
Suresh Koushal (supra) wherein this Court had overturned the decision rendered
by the Division Bench of the Delhi High Court in Naz Foundation (supra). It
was submitted by Mr. Arvind Datar, learned senior counsel appearing for the
writ petitioners, on the said occasion that the two-Judge Bench in Suresh
Koushal (supra) had been guided by social morality leaning on majoritarian
perception whereas the issue, in actuality, needed to be debated upon in the
backdrop of constitutional morality. A contention was also advanced that the
interpretation placed in Suresh Kumar (supra) upon Article 21 of the
Constitution is extremely narrow and, in fact, the Court has been basically
guided by Article 14 of the Constitution. Reliance was placed on the
pronouncement in NALSA case wherein this Court had emphasized on ―gender
identity and sexual orientation‖. Attention of this Court was also invited to
a nine- Judge Bench decision in K.S. Puttaswamy and another v. Union of  4
India and others wherein the majority, speaking through Chandrachud, J., has
opined that sexual orientation is an essential component of rights guaranteed
under the Constitution which are not 4 (2017) 10 SCC 1  13 formulated on
majoritarian favour or acceptance. Kaul, J, in his concurring opinion,
referred to the decision in Mosley v. News  5 Group Newspapers Ltd. to
highlight that the emphasis for individual‘s freedom to conduct his sex life
and personal relationships as he wishes, subject to the permitted exceptions,
countervails public interest.
11\. The further submission that was advanced by Mr. Datar was that privacy of
the individual having been put on such a high pedestal and sexual orientation
having been emphasized in the NALSA case, Section 377 IPC cannot be construed
as a reasonable restriction as that would have the potentiality to destroy the
individual autonomy and sexual orientation. It is an accepted principle of
interpretation of statutes that a provision does not become unconstitutional
merely because there can be abuse of the same. Similarly, though a provision
on the statute book is not invoked on many occasions, yet it does not fall
into the sphere of the doctrine of desuetude. However, Suresh Koushal's case
has been guided by the aforesaid doctrine of desuetude.
5 [2008] EWHC 1777 (QB)  14
12\. Appreciating the said submissions, the three-Judge Bench stated that:-
> ―Certain other aspects need to be noted. Section 377 IPC uses the
> phraseology ―carnal intercourse against the order of nature‖. The
> determination of order of nature is not a constant phenomenon. Social
> morality also changes from age to age. The law copes with life and
> accordingly change takes place. The morality that public perceives, the
> Constitution may not conceive of. The individual autonomy and also
> individual orientation cannot be atrophied unless the restriction is
> regarded as reasonable to yield to the morality of the Constitution. What is
> natural to one may not be natural to the other but the said natural
> orientation and choice cannot be allowed to cross the boundaries of law and
> as the confines of law cannot tamper or curtail the inherent right embedded
> in an individual under Article 21 of the Constitution. A section of people
> or individuals who exercise their choice should never remain in a state of
> fear. When we say so, we may not be understood to have stated that there
> should not be fear of law because fear of law builds civilised society. But
> that law must have the acceptability of the Constitutional parameters. That
> is the litmus test.
It is necessary to note, in the course of hearing on a query being made and
Mr. Datar very fairly stated that he does not intend to challenge that part of
Section 377 which relates to carnal intercourse with animals and that apart,
he confines to consenting acts between two adults. As far as the first aspect
is concerned, that is absolutely beyond debate. As far as the second aspect is
concerned, that needs to be debated. The consent between two adults has to be
the primary pre-condition. Otherwise the children would become prey, and
protection of the children in all spheres has to be guarded and protected.
Taking all the apsects in a cumulative manner, we are of the  15 view, the
decision in Suresh Kumar Koushal's case (supra) requires re-consideration.‖
The three-Judge Bench expressed the opinion that the issues raised should be
answered by a larger Bench and, accordingly, referred the matter to the larger
Bench. That is how the matter has been placed before us.
C. Submissions on behalf of the petitioners
13\. We have heard Mr. Mukul Rohatgi, learned senior counsel assisted by Mr.
Saurabh Kirpal, learned counsel appearing for the petitioners in Writ Petition
(Criminal) No. 76 of 2016, Ms. Jayna Kothari, learned counsel for the
petitioner in Writ Petition (Civil) No. 572 of 2016, Mr. Arvind P. Datar,
learned senior counsel for the petitioner in Writ Petition (Criminal) No. 88
of 2018, Mr. Anand Grover, learned senior counsel for the petitioners in Writ
Petition (Criminal) Nos. 100 of 2018 and 101 of 2018 and Dr. Menaka Guruswamy,
learned counsel for the petitioner in Writ Petition (Criminal) No. 121 of
2018. We have also heard Mr. Ashok Desai, Mr. Chander Uday Singh, Mr. Shyam
Divan and Mr. Krishnan Venugopal, learned senior counsel appearing for various
intervenors in the matter. A compilation of written submissions has been filed
by the petitioners as well as the intervenors.
16
14\. We have heard Mr. Tushar Mehta, learned Additional Solicitor General for
the Union of India, Mr. K. Radhakrishnan, learned senior counsel appearing in
Interlocutory Application No. 94284 of 2018 in Writ Petition (Criminal) No. 76
of 2016, Mr. Mahesh Jethmalani, learned senior counsel appearing in
Interlocutory Application No. 91147 in Writ Petition (Criminal) No. 76 of
2016, Mr. Soumya Chakraborty, learned senior counsel appearing in
Interlocutory Application No. 94348 of 2018 in Writ Petition (Criminal) No. 76
of 2016, Mr. Manoj V. George, learned counsel appearing for Apostolic Alliance
of Churches & Utkal Christian Council and Dr. Harshvir Pratap Sharma, learned
counsel appearing in Interlocutory Application No. 93411 of 2018 in Writ
Petition (Criminal) No. 76 of 2016\.
15\. It is submitted on behalf of the petitioners and the intervenors that
homosexuality, bisexuality and other sexual orientations are equally natural
and reflective of expression of choice and inclination founded on consent of
two persons who are eligible in law to express such consent and it is neither
a physical nor a mental illness, rather they are natural variations of
expression and free thinking process and to make it a criminal offence is
offensive of the well established  17 principles pertaining to individual
dignity and decisional autonomy inherent in the personality of a person, a
great discomfort to gender identity, destruction of the right to privacy which
is a pivotal facet of Article 21 of the Constitution, unpalatable to the
highly cherished idea of freedom and a trauma to the conception of expression
of biological desire which revolves around the pattern of mosaic of true
manifestation of identity. That apart, the phrase ―order of nature‖ is limited
to the procreative concept that may have been conceived as natural by a
systemic conservative approach and such limitations do not really take note of
inborn traits or developed orientations or, for that matter, consensual acts
which relate to responses to series of free exercise of assertions of one‘s
bodily autonomy. It is further argued that their growth of personality,
relation building endeavour to enter into a live-in relationship or to form an
association with a sense of commonality have become a mirage and the essential
desires are crippled which violates Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution. It
is urged that the American Psychological Association has opined that sexual
orientation is a natural condition and attraction towards the same sex or
opposite sex are both naturally equal, the only difference being that the same
sex attraction arises in far lesser numbers.  18
16\. The petitioners have highlighted that the rights of the lesbian, gay,
bisexual and transgender (LGBT) community, who comprise 7- 8% of the total
Indian population, need to be recognized and protected, for sexual orientation
is an integral and innate facet of every individual‘s identity. A person
belonging to the said community does not become an alien to the concept of
individual and his individualism cannot be viewed with a stigma. The impact of
sexual orientation on an individual‘s life is not limited to their intimate
lives but also impacts their family, professional, social and educational
life. As per the petitioners, such individuals (sexual minorities in
societies) need protection more than the heterosexuals so as to enable them to
achieve their full potential and to live freely without fear, apprehension or
trepidation in such a manner that they are not discriminated against by the
society openly or insidiously or by the State in multifarious ways in matters
such as employment, choice of partner, testamentary rights, insurability,
medical treatment in hospitals and other similar rights arising from live-in
relationships which, after the decision in Indra Sarma v. V.K.V. Sarma 6 , is
recognized even by the ―Protection of Women from Domestic 6 (2013) 15 SCC 755
19 Violence Act, 2005‖ for various kinds of live-in relationships. The same
protection, as per the petitioners, must be accorded to same sex
relationships.
17\. It is urged by the learned counsel for the petitioners that individuals
belonging to the LGBT group suffer discrimination and abuse throughout their
lives due to the existence of Section 377 IPC which is nothing but a
manifestation of a mindset of societal values prevalent during the Victorian
era where sexual activities were considered mainly for procreation. The said
community remains in a constant state of fear which is not conducive for their
growth. It is contended that they suffer at the hands of law and are also
deprived of the citizenry rights which are protected under the Constitution.
The law should have treated them as natural victims and sensitized the society
towards their plight and laid stress on such victimisation, however, the
reverse is being done due to which a sense of estrangement and alienation has
developed and continues to prevail amongst the members belonging to the LGBT
group. Compulsory alienation due to stigma and threat is contrary to the
fundamental principle of liberty.
20
18\. The petitioners have referred to the decision of this Court in NALSA case
wherein transgenders have been recognized as a third gender apart from male
and female and have been given certain rights. Yet, in view of the existence
of Section 377 in the IPC, consensual activities amongst transgenders would
continue to constitute an offence. Drawing inspiration from the NALSA case,
the petitioners submit that the rights of the LGBT group are not fully
realized and they remain incomplete citizens because their expression as
regards sexuality is not allowed to be pronounced owing to the criminality
attached to the sexual acts between these persons which deserves to be given a
burial and, therefore, the rights of the LGBT community also need equal, if
not more, constitutional protection. Accordingly, the petitioners are of the
view that Section 377 of the IPC be read down qua the LGBT community so as to
confine it only to the offence of bestiality and non-consensual acts in view
of the fact that with the coming into force of the Criminal Law (Amendment)
Act, 2013 and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 (POCSO
Act), the scope of sexual assault has been widened to include non peno-vaginal
sexual assault and also  21 criminalize non-consensual sexual acts between
children thereby plugging important gaps in the law governing sexual violence
in India.
19\. The petitioners have also submitted that Section 377, despite being a
pre-constitutional law, was retained post the Constitution coming into effect
by virtue of Article 372 of the Constitution, but it must be noted that the
presumption of constitutionality is merely an evidentiary burden initially on
the person seeking to challenge the vires of a statute and once any violation
of fundamental rights or suspect classification is prima facie shown, then
such presumption has no role. In the case at hand, the petitioners face a
violation of their fundamental rights to an extent which is manifestly clear
and it is a violation which strikes at the very root or substratum of their
existence. The discrimination suffered at the hands of the majority, the
onslaught to their dignity and invasion on the right to privacy is
demonstrably visible and permeates every nook and corner of the society.
20\. It is the argument of the petitioners that Section 377, if retained in
its present form, would involve the violation of, not one but, several
fundamental rights of the LGBTs, namely, right to privacy, right to dignity,
equality, liberty and right to freedom of expression. The  22 petitioners
contend that sexual orientation which is a natural corollary of gender
identity is protected under Article 21 of the Constitution and any
discrimination meted out to the LGBT community on the basis of sexual
orientation would run counter to the mandate provided under the Constitution
and the said view has also gained approval of this Court in the NALSA case.
21\. The petitioners have also relied upon the view in K.S. Puttaswamy (supra)
to advance their argument that sexual orientation is also an essential
attribute of privacy. Therefore, protection of both sexual orientation and
right to privacy of an individual is extremely important, for without the
enjoyment of these basic and fundamental rights, individual identity may lose
significance, a sense of trepidation may take over and their existence would
be reduced to mere survival. It is further urged that sexual orientation and
privacy lie at the core of the fundamental rights which are guaranteed under
Articles 14, 19 and 21 of the Constitution and in the light of the decision in
Puttaswamy (supra), it has become imperative that Section 377 be struck down.
It is contended that the right to privacy has to take within its ambit and
sweep the right of every individual, including LGBTs, to make decisions as per
their  23 choice without the fear that they may be subjected to humiliation or
shunned by the society merely because of a certain choice or manner of living.
22\. Having canvassed with vehemence that sexual orientation is an important
facet of the right to privacy which has been raised to the pedestal of a
cherished right, the learned counsel for the petitioners have vigorously
propounded that sexual autonomy and the right to choose a partner of one‘s
choice is an inherent aspect of the right to life and right to autonomy. In
furtherance of the said view, they have relied upon the authorities in Shakti
Vahini v. Union of India and others 7 and Shafin Jahan v. Asokan K.M. 8
wherein it has been clearly recognized that an individual‘s exercise of choice
in choosing a partner is a feature of dignity and, therefore, it is protected
under Articles 19 and 21 of the Constitution.
23\. According to the petitioners, there is no difference between persons who
defy social conventions to enter into inter-religious and inter-caste
marriages and those who choose a same sex partner in the sense that the
society may disapprove of inter-caste or inter- religious marriages but this
Court is for enforcing constitutional rights. 7(2018) 7 SCC 192 8AIR 2018 SC
1933 : 2018 (5) SCALE 422  24 Similarly, as per the petitioners, even if there
is disapproval by the majority of the sexual orientation or exercise of choice
by the LGBT persons, the Court as the final arbiter of the constitutional
rights, should disregard social morality and uphold and protect constitutional
morality which has been adverted to by this Court in several cases, including
Manoj Narula v. Union of India9, for that is the governing rule. It is argued
that the Delhi High Court in Naz Foundation (supra) has referred to and
analysed the concept of constitutional morality and ultimately struck down
Section 377 IPC clearly stating that carnal intercourse between homosexuals
and heterosexuals with consent cannot be an offence.
24\. The LGBT persons cannot, according to the petitioners, be penalized
simply for choosing a same sex partner, for the constitutional guarantee of
choice of partner extends to the LGBT persons as well. Learned counsel for the
petitioners and the supporting intervenors have submitted that sexual
orientation, being an innate facet of individual identity, is protected under
the right to dignity. To bolster the said argument, reliance has been placed
upon Francis Coralie Mullin v. Administrator, Union Territory of Delhi 9
(2014) 9 SCC 1  25 and others10 and Common Cause (A Registered Society) v.
Union of India and another11 wherein it was held that the right to life and
liberty, as envisaged under Article 21, is meaningless unless it encompasses
within its sphere individual dignity and right to dignity includes the right
to carry such functions and activities as would constitute the meaningful
expression of the human self.
25\. It is submitted that Section 377 is an anathema to the concept of
fraternity as enshrined in the Preamble to our Constitution and the Indian
Constitution mandates that we must promote fraternity amongst the citizens
sans which unity shall remain a distant dream.
26\. The petitioners have further contended that Section 377 is violative of
Article 14 of the Constitution as the said Section is vague in the sense that
carnal intercourse against the order of nature is neither defined in the
Section nor in the IPC or, for that matter, any other law. There is, as per
the petitioners, no intelligible differentia or reasonable classification
between natural and unnatural sex as long as it is consensual in view of the
decision of this Court in Anuj Garg and others v. Hotel Association of India
and others12 which lays down the principle that classification which may have
been treated as 10(1981) 1 SCC 608 11(2018) 5 SCC 1 12(2008) 3 SCC 1  26 valid
at the time of its adoption may cease to be so on account of changing social
norms.
27\. Section 377, as argued by the petitioners, is manifestly arbitrary and
over-broad and for the said purpose, immense inspiration has been drawn from
the principles stated in Shayara Bano v. Union of India and others13 , for
making consensual relationship a crime on the ground that it is against the
order of nature suffers from manifest arbitrariness at the fulcrum.
28\. It is the case of the petitioners that Section 377 violates Article 15 of
the Constitution since there is discrimination inherent in it based on the sex
of a person‘s sexual partner as under Section 376(c) to (e), a person can be
prosecuted for acts done with an opposite sex partner without her consent,
whereas the same acts if done with a same-sex partner are criminalized even if
the partner consents. The petitioners have drawn the attention of this Court
to the Justice J.S Verma Committee on Amendments to Criminal Law which had
observed that ‗sex‘ occurring in Article 15 includes sexual orientation and,
thus, as per the petitioners, Section 377 is also violative of Article 15 of
the Constitution on this count.
13(2017) 9 SCC 1  27
29\. It is argued with astuteness that Section 377 has a chilling effect on
Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution which protects the fundamental right of
freedom of expression including that of LGBT persons to express their sexual
identity and orientation, through speech, choice of romantic/sexual partner,
expression of romantic/sexual desire, acknowledgment of relationships or any
other means and that Section 377 constitutes an unreasonable exception and is
thereby not covered under Article 19(2) of the Constitution. To buttress the
said stance, reliance is placed upon the decision in S. Khushboo v. Kanniammal
and another14 wherein it has been held that law should not be used in such a
manner that it has a chilling effect on the freedom of speech and expression.
Additionally, the view in NALSA case has also been strongly pressed into
service to emphasize that the said decision clearly spells out that the right
under Article 19(1)(a) includes one‘s right to expression of his/her self-
identified gender which can be expressed through words, action, behaviour or
any other form.
30\. The petitioners have also contended that Section 377 violates the rights
of LGBT persons under Article 19(1)(c) and denies them the 14(2010) 5 SCC 600
28 right to form associations. Similarly, such persons are hesitant to
register companies to provide benefits to sexual minorities due to the fear of
state action and social stigma. Further, a conviction under Section 377 IPC
renders such persons ineligible for appointment as a director of a company.
31\. It is averred that Section 377 IPC, by creating a taint of criminality,
deprives the LGBT persons of their right to reputation which is a facet of the
right to life and liberty of a citizen under Article 21 of the Constitution as
observed by this Court in Kishore Samrite v. State of U.P. and others15 and
Umesh Kumar v. State of Andhra Pradesh and another16 to the effect that
reputation is an element of personal security and protected by the
Constitution with the right to enjoyment of life and liberty. This right, as
per the petitioners, is being denied to the LGBT persons because of Section
377 IPC as it makes them apprehensive to speak openly about their sexual
orientation and makes them vulnerable to extortion, blackmail and denial of
State machinery for either protection or for enjoyment of other rights and
amenities and on certain occasions, the other concomitant rights are affected.
15(2013) 2 SCC 398 16(2013) 10 SCC 591  29
32\. The petitioners have advanced their argument that Section 377 IPC impedes
the ability of the LGBTs to realize the constitutionally guaranteed right to
shelter. To illustrate the same, the petitioners have drawn the attention of
the Court to the fact that LGBTs seek assistance of private resources such as
Gay Housing Assistance Resources (GHAR) in order to access safe and suitable
shelter and this is an indication that the members of this community are in
need of immediate care and protection of the State.
33\. The decision in Suresh Koushal (supra), as per the petitioners, is per
incuriam as the view observed therein has failed to take into account the
amendment to Section 375 IPC which has rendered sexual ‗carnal intercourse
against the order of nature‘ between man and woman as permissible. Section
377, on the other hand, has continued to render same sex carnal intercourse as
an offence, even if it is consensual. Further, the petitioners have assailed
the decision of this Court in Suresh Koushal’s case on the ground that the
view in the said decision on classification is contrary to the ‗impact or
effect test‘, for the result, in ultimate eventuality, leads to
discrimination. Thus, the petitioners have contended that after Puttaswamy
(supra), the view in Suresh Koushal (supra) needs to be overruled and the  30
proper test would be whether Section 377 IPC can be enacted by the Parliament
today after the decisions of this Court in NALSA (supra) and Puttaswamy
(supra) and other authorities laying immense emphasis on individual choice.
34\. It is further contended that LGBT persons are deprived of their rights
due to the presence of Section 377 as they fear prosecution and persecution
upon revealing their sexual identities and, therefore, this class of persons
never approached this Court as petitioners, rather they have always relied
upon their teachers, parents, mental health professionals and other
organizations such as NGOs to speak on their behalf. It is urged that the
appellants in Suresh Koushal (supra) led this Court to assume that LGBT
persons constitute only a minuscule fraction whereas most of the studies
indicate that they constitute at least 7-8% of the population and that apart,
rights are not determined on the basis of percentage of populace but on a real
scrutiny of the existence of right and denial of the same. It is the stand of
the petitioners that majority perception or view cannot be the guiding factor
for sustaining the constitutionality of a provision or to declare a provision
as unconstitutional.
31
D. Submissions on behalf of the respondents and other intervenors
35\. The respondent, Union of India, has, vide affidavit dated 11th July,
2018, submitted that the matter at hand was referred to a Constitution Bench
to decide as to whether the law laid down in Suresh Koushal (supra) is correct
or not and the only question referred to this Bench is the question of the
constitutional validity of criminalizing 'consensual acts of adults in
private' falling under Section 377 IPC.
36\. Further, the Union has submitted that so far as the constitutional
validity of Section 377 IPC, to the extent it applies to 'consensual acts of
adults in private', is concerned, the respondent leaves the same to the wisdom
of this Court.
37\. The respondent has also contended that in the event Section 377 IPC so
far as 'consensual acts of adults in private' is declared unconstitutional,
other ancillary issues or rights which have not been referred to this Bench
for adjudication may not be dealt with by this Bench as in that case, the
Union of India expresses the wish to file detailed affidavit in reply, for
consideration of other issues and rights would have far reaching and wide
ramifications under various other laws and will also have consequences which
are neither  32 contemplated in the reference nor required to be answered by
this Hon‘ble Bench.
38\. The respondent has submitted that allowing any other issue (other than
the constitutional validity of Section 377 IPC) to be argued and adjudicating
the same without giving an opportunity to the Union of India to file a counter
affidavit may not be in the interest of justice and would be violative of the
principles of natural justice.
39\. Another set of written submissions has been filed by Shri K.
Radhakrishnan, senior counsel, on behalf of intervenor-NGO, Trust God
Ministries. The said intervenor has submitted that the observations of this
Court in Puttaswamy (supra), particularly in Para 146, virtually pre-empt and
forestall the aforesaid NGO from raising substantial contentions to the effect
that there is no uncanalised and unbridled right to privacy and the said right
cannot be abused. Further, the intervenor has contended that there is no
personal liberty to abuse one‘s organs and that the offensive acts proscribed
by Section 377 IPC are committed by abusing the organs. Such acts, as per the
intervenor, are undignified and derogatory to the constitutional concept of
dignity and if any infraction is caused to the concept of  33 dignity, then it
would amount to constitutional wrong and constitutional immorality.
40\. It is also the case of the intervenor that issues pertaining to the
constitutional and other legal rights of the transgender community, their
gender identity and sexual orientation have been exhaustively considered in
the light of the various provisions of the Constitution and, accordingly,
reliefs have been granted by this Court in NALSA (supra). It is contended by
the intervenor that no further reliefs can be granted to them and the prayers
made by them is only to abuse privacy and personal liberty by transgressing
the concepts of dignity and public morality.
41\. As per the intervenor, Section 377 rightly makes the acts stated therein
punishable as Section 377 has been incorporated after taking note of the legal
systems and principles which prevailed in ancient India and now in 2018, the
said Section is more relevant legally, medically, morally and
constitutionally.
42\. To illustrate this, the intervenor has drawn the attention of this Court
to W. Friedmann from 'Law in a Changing Society' wherein he has observed that
to prohibit a type of conduct which a particular society considers worthy of
condemnation by criminal sanctions is  34 deeply influenced by the values
governing that society and it, therefore, varies from one country to another
and one period of history to another.
43\. Further, it has been contended by the intervenor that persons indulging
in unnatural sexual acts which have been made punishable under Section 377 IPC
are more susceptible and vulnerable to contracting HIV/AIDS and the percentage
of prevalence of AIDS in homosexuals is much greater than heterosexuals and
that the right to privacy may not be extended in order to enable people to
indulge in unnatural offences and thereby contact AIDS.
44\. It is also the case of the intervenor that if Section 377 is declared
unconstitutional, then the family system which is the bulwark of social
culture will be in shambles, the institution of marriage will be detrimentally
affected and rampant homosexual activities for money would tempt and corrupt
young Indians into this trade.
45\. Written submissions have also been filed on behalf of Mr. Suresh Kumar
Koushal, intervenor, submitting therein that the argument of the petitioners
that consensual acts of adults in private have been decriminalized in many
parts of the world and, therefore, it deserves to be decriminalized in India
as well does not hold good for  35 several reasons inasmuch as the political,
economic and cultural heritage of those countries are very different from
India which is a multicultural and multi-linguistic country.
46\. The intervenor has contended that since fundamental rights are not
absolute, there is no unreasonableness in Section 377 IPC and decriminalizing
the same would run foul to all religions practised in the country, and, while
deciding the ambit and scope of constitutional morality, Article 25 also
deserves to be given due consideration.
47\. Another application for intervention, being I.A No. 91250 of 2018, was
filed and the same was allowed. It has been contended by the said intervenor
that in the attempt that Section 377 is struck down, it would render the
victims complaining of forced acts covered under the existing Section 377 IPC
remediless as the said Section not only impinges on carnal intercourse against
the order of nature between two consenting adults but also applies to forced
penile non- vaginal sexual intercourse between adults. This, as per the
intervenor, would be contrary to the decision of this Court in Iqbal Singh
Marwah and another v. Meenakshi Marwah and another17.
17 (2005) 4 SCC 370  36
48\. The applicant has also submitted that in the event consenting acts
between two same sex adults are excluded from the ambit of Section 377 IPC,
then a married woman would be rendered remediless under the IPC against her
bi-sexual husband and his consenting male partner indulging in any sexual
acts.
49\. The intervenor has suggested that the alleged misuse of Section 377 IPC
as highlighted by the petitioners can be curbed by adding an explanation to
Section 377 IPC defining 'aggrieved person' which shall include only non-
consenting partner or aggrieved person or wife or husband or any person on
their behalf on the lines of Section 198(1) of Code of Criminal Procedure,
1973. This, as per the applicant, would curb any mala fide complaint lodged by
authorities and vindictive or mischievous persons when the act complained of
is 'consenting act' between two persons. Further, the applicant has submitted
that this Court may be pleased to identify that the courts shall take
cognizance of an offence under Section 377 IPC only on a complaint made by an
aggrieved person. Such an approach, as per the applicant, inherently respects
consent and also protects from interference and safeguards the privacy and
dignity of an individual under Article 21 of the Constitution.  37
50\. The applicant has also contended that the constitutionality of any
legislation is always to be presumed and if there is any vagueness in the
definition of any section, the courts have to give such a definition which
advances the purpose of the legislation and that the courts must make every
effort to uphold the constitutional validity of a statute if that requires
giving a stretched construction in view of the decisions of this Court in K.A.
Abbas v. Union of India and another18 and Rt. Rev. Msgr. Mark Netto v. State
of Kerala and others19.
51\. The applicant, through his learned counsel Mr. Harvinder Chowdhury,
submits that if the right to privacy as recognized in Puttaswamy (supra) is
allowed its full scope and swing, then that itself would rule out prosecution
in all cases of consensual unnatural sex between all couples, whether
heterosexual or homosexual, and without having to engage in reading down, much
less striking down of, the provisions of Section 377 IPC in its present form.
This is so because the State cannot compel individuals engaging in consensual
sexual acts from testifying 18 (1970) 2 SCC 780 19 (1979) 1 SCC 23  38 against
one another as it involves a breach of privacy unless the consent itself is
under challenge and one cannot be a consenting victim of a crime so long as
the consent is legally valid.
52\. Submissions have also been advanced on behalf of Raza Academy,
intervenor, through its learned counsel Mr. R.R Kishore, who has contended
that homosexuality is against the order of nature and Section 377 rightly
forbids it. Prohibition against carnal intercourse involving penetration into
non-sexual parts of the body does not constitute discrimination as laws based
on biological reality can never be unconstitutional, for if a male is treated
as a male, a female as a female and a transgender as a transgender, it does
not amount to discrimination.
53\. The applicant has submitted that the purpose of criminal law is to
protect the citizens from something that is injurious and since carnal
intercourse between two persons is offensive and injurious, it is well within
the State's jurisdiction to put reasonable restrictions to forbid such
aberrant human behaviour by means of legislation, for it is the duty of the
State that people with abnormal conduct are prohibited from imperiling the
life, health and security of the  39 community. Unrestrained pleasure, and
that too of a lascivious nature, is not conducive for the growth of a
civilized society, such inordinate gratification needs to be curbed and, thus,
prohibition against carnal intercourse as defined in Section 377 IPC does not
violate the constitutional rights of a person.
54\. Another application for intervention, being I.A No. 9341 of 2011, was
filed and allowed. The applicant, in his written submissions, after
delineating the concept of immorality, has submitted that the doctrine of
manifest arbitrariness is of no application to the present case as the law is
not manifestly or otherwise arbitrary, for Section 377 criminalizes an act
irrespective of gender or sexual orientation of the persons involved. The
universal application of the said provision without any gender bias is the
touchstone of Part III of the Constitution and is not arbitrary as there is no
intentional or unreasonable discrimination in the provision.
55\. The applicant has drawn the attention of this Court to the case of Fazal
Rab Choudhary v. State of Bihar20 wherein this Court held that the offence
under Section 377 IPC implies sexual 20(1982) 3 SCC 9  40 perversity. Further,
it is the case of the applicant that there should not be identical
transplantation of Western ideology in our country which has also been a
matter of concern for this Court in Jagmohan Singh v. State of U.P.21
56\. The applicant, after citing the case of State of Gujarat v. Mirzapur Moti
Kureshi Kassab Jamat and others22, has stressed upon the fact that the
interest of a citizen or a section of the society, howsoever important, is
secondary to the interest of the country or community as a whole and while
judging the reasonability of restrictions imposed on fundamental rights, due
consideration must also be given to the Directive Principles stated in Part
IV. In view of these aforesaid submissions, the applicant has submitted that
fundamental rights may not be overstretched and the Directive Principles of
State Policy which are fundamental in the governance of the country cannot be
neglected, for they are not less significant than what is fundamental in the
life of an individual as held in Kesavananda Bharati v. Union of India23.
21 (1973) 1 SCC 20 22 (2005) 8 SCC 534 23 (1973) 4 SCC 225  41
57\. Another application for intervention, being I.A. No. 76790 of 2018, has
been filed by Apostolic Alliance of Churches and the Utkal Christian Council.
The applicants have submitted that the Court, while interpreting Section 377
IPC, has to keep in mind that there can be situations where consent is
obtained by putting a person in fear of death or hurt or consent can also be
obtained under some misconception or due to unsoundness of mind, intoxication
or inability to understand the nature and the consequences of the acts
prohibited by Section 377 IPC.
58\. The applicant has also advanced the argument that Section 377 IPC in its
present form does not violate Article 14 of the Constitution as it merely
defines a particular offence and its punishment and it is well within the
power of the State to determine who should be regarded as a class for the
purpose of a legislation and this, as per the applicant, is reasonable
classification in the context of Section 377 IPC.
59\. Further, the applicant has contended that Section 377 IPC is not
violative of Article 15 of the Constitution as the said Article prohibits
discrimination on the grounds of only religion, race, caste,  42 sex, place of
birth or any of them but not sexual orientation. The word ‗sexual
orientation‘, as per the applicant, is alien to our Constitution and the same
cannot be imported within it for testing the constitutional validity of a
provision or legislation. As per the applicant, if the word 'sex' has to be
replaced by 'sexual orientation', it would require a constitutional amendment.
60\. It is also the case of the applicant that the Yogyakarta principles which
have been heavily relied upon by the petitioners to bolster their stand have
limited sanctity inasmuch as they do not amount to an international treaty
binding on the State parties and there are no inter-governmentally negotiated
international instruments or agreed human rights treaties on the issue of
LGBTs.
61\. Further, the applicant has submitted that there is no requirement to
reconsider the decision of this Court in Suresh Koushal (supra) wherein it was
held that there is a presumption of constitutionality of a legislation and the
Court must adopt self- restraint and thereby refrain from giving birth to
judicial legislation. In the applicant's view, the legislative wisdom of the
Parliament must be  43 respected and it must be left to the Parliament to
amend Section 377 IPC, if so desired.
62\. The applicant has contended that if the prayers of the petitioners herein
are allowed, it would amount to judicial legislation, for the Courts cannot
add or delete words into a statute. It is stated that the words 'consent'
and/or 'without consent' are not mentioned in Section 377 IPC and, therefore,
the Courts cannot make such an artificial distinction. To buttress this stand,
the applicant has relied upon the decision of this Court in Sakshi v. Union of
India and others 24 wherein it was observed that the attention of the Court
should be on what has been said and also on what has not been said while
interpreting the statute and that it would be wrong and dangerous for the
Court to proceed by substituting some other words in a statute since it is
well settled that a statute enacting an offence or imposing a penalty has to
be strictly construed.
63\. The applicant has also drawn the attention of this Court to the decision
in Union of India and another v. Deoki Nandan Aggarwal25 wherein it was
observed that the Court cannot rewrite, 24(2004) 5 SCC 518 251992 Supp. (1)
SCC 323  44 recast or re-frame the legislation for the good reason that it has
no power to legislate since the power to legislate has not been conferred upon
the Court and, therefore, the Courts cannot add words to a statute or read
words into it which are not there. The Courts are to decide what the law is
and not what it should be.
64\. It is also the case of the applicant that the decriminalization of
Section 377 IPC will open a floodgate of social issues which the legislative
domain is not capable of accommodating as same sex marriages would become
social experiments with unpredictable outcome.
65\. Further, it is the contention of the applicant that decriminalization of
Section 377 IPC will have cascading effect on existing laws such as Section
32(d) of the Parsi Marriage and Divorce Act, 1936; Section 27(7)(1A) A of the
Special Marriage Act, 1954 which permits a wife to present a petition for
divorce to the district court on the ground,—(i) that her husband has, since
the solemnization of the marriage, been guilty of rape, sodomy or bestiality;
Section 10(2) of the Indian Divorce Act, 1869 and Section 13(2) of the Hindu
Marriage Act, 1955.
45
E. Decisions in Naz Foundation and Suresh Koushal
66\. We shall now advert to what had been stated by the Delhi High Court in
Naz Foundation and thereafter advert to the legal base of the decision in
Suresh Koushal’s case. The Delhi High Court had taken the view that Article 15
of the Constitution prohibits discrimination on several enumerated grounds
including sex. The High Court preferred an expansive interpretation of 'sex'
so as to include prohibition of discrimination on the ground of 'sexual
orientation' and that sex-discrimination cannot be read as applying to gender
simpliciter. Discrimination, as per the High Court's view, on the basis of
sexual orientation is grounded in stereotypical judgments and generalization
about the conduct of either sex.
67\. Another facet of the Indian Constitution that the High Court delineated
was that of inclusiveness as the Indian Constitution reflects this value of
inclusiveness deeply ingrained in the Indian society and nurtured over several
generations. The High Court categorically said that those who are perceived by
the majority as deviants or different are not to be, on that score, excluded
or ostracised. In the High Court's view, where a society displays  46
inclusiveness and understanding, the LGBT persons can be assured of a life of
dignity and non-discrimination.
68\. It has been further opined by the High Court that the Constitution does
not permit any statutory criminal law to be held captive of the popular
misconceptions of who the LGBTs are, as it cannot be forgotten that
discrimination is the antithesis of equality and recognition of equality in
its truest sense will foster the dignity of every individual. That apart, the
High Court had taken the view that social morality has to succumb to the
concept of constitutional morality.
69\. On the basis of the aforesaid reasons, the High Court declared Section
377 IPC violative of Articles 14, 15 and 21 of the Constitution in so far as
it criminalises consensual sexual acts of adults in private, whereas for non-
consensual penile non-vaginal sex and penile non- vaginal sex involving
minors, the High Court ruled that Section 377 IPC was valid.
70\. The Delhi High Court judgment was challenged in Suresh Koushal (supra)
wherein this Court opined that acts which fall within the ambit of Section 377
IPC can only be determined with reference to the act itself and to the
circumstances in which it is executed.  47 While so opining, the Court held
that Section 377 IPC would apply irrespective of age and consent, for Section
377 IPC does not criminalize a particular people or identity or orientation
and only identifies certain acts which, when committed, would constitute an
offence. Such a prohibition, in the Court's view in Suresh Koushal (supra),
regulates sexual conduct regardless of gender identity and orientation.
71\. The Court further observed that those who indulge in carnal intercourse
in the ordinary course and those who indulge in carnal intercourse against the
order of nature constitute different classes and the people falling in the
latter category cannot claim that Section 377 IPC suffers from the vice of
arbitrariness and irrational classification. The Court further observed that
while reading down Section 377 of the Indian Penal Code, it cannot be
overlooked that only a minuscule fraction of the country's population
constitutes lesbians, gays, bisexuals or transgenders and in last more than
150 years, less than 200 persons have been prosecuted under Section 377 of the
Indian Penal Code which cannot, therefore, be made a sound basis for declaring
Section 377 IPC ultra vires the provisions of Articles 14, 15 and 21 of the
Constitution.
48
72\. The submission advanced by the respondents therein to the effect that the
provision had become a pernicious tool for perpetrating harassment, blackmail
and torture on those belonging to the LGBT community was repelled by stating
that such treatment is neither mandated by the Section nor condoned by it and
the mere fact that the Section is misused by police authorities and others is
not a reflection of the vires of the Section, though it might be a relevant
factor for the Legislature to consider while judging the desirability of
amending Section 377 of the Indian Penal Code. F. Other judicial
pronouncements on Section 377 IPC
73\. Presently, we may refer to some of the judgments and the views taken
therein by this Court as well as by the High Courts on Section 377 IPC so as
to have a holistic perspective.
74\. While interpreting the said provision, the Courts have held that the
provision stipulates certain acts, which when committed, would constitute a
criminal offence. In Childline India Foundation and another v. Allan John
Waters and others26, the Court was dealing with carnal intercourse against the
order of nature when the material on record showed that the accused Nos. 2 and
3 used to have sex 26 (2011) 6 SCC 261  49 and fellatio with PWs 1 and 4. The
Court opined that the ingredients of Section 377 IPC were proved and,
accordingly, restored the conviction and sentence of 6 years‘ rigorous
imprisonment and confirmed the imposition of fine. In Fazal Rab Choudhary
(supra), although the Court convicted the accused under Section 377 IPC, yet
it took note of the absence of any force in the commission of the act. The
Court also took into account the prevalent notions of permissive society and
the fact that homosexuality has been legalized in some countries. In view of
the same, the Court reduced the sentence of 3 years imposed on the accused to
6 months opining that the aforesaid aspects must also be kept in view as they
have a bearing on the question of offence and quantum of sentence.
75\. A reference may be made to Khanu v. Emperor27 which was also alluded to
in Suresh Koushal‘s case. We deem it appropriate to reproduce a part of
Khanu‘s decision to understand how the courts in India had understood the word
―carnal intercourse against the order of nature‖. The said passage reads
thus:-
> ―The principal point in this case is: whether the accused (who is clearly
> guilty of having committed the sin of Gomorrah coitus per os) with a certain
> little child, the innocent accomplice of his abomination, has 27 AIR 1925
> Sind 286  50 thereby committed an offence under Section 377 of the Penal
> Code.
Section 377 punishes certain persons who have carnal intercourse against the
order of nature with inter alia human beings. Is the act here committed one of
carnal intercourse? If so, it is clearly against the order of nature, because
the natural object of carnal intercourse is that there should be the
possibility of conception of human beings which in the case of coitus per os
is impossible. Intercourse may be defined as mutual frequent action by members
of independent organisation. Commercial intercourse [is thereafter referred
to; emphasis is made on the reciprocity]. By a metaphor the word intercourse
like the word commerce is applied to the relations of the sexes. Here also
there is the temporary visitation of one organism by a member of other
organisation, for certain clearly defined and limited objects. The primary
object of the visiting organisation is to obtain euphoria by means of a detent
of the nerves consequent on the sexual crisis. But there is no intercourse
unless the visiting member is enveloped at least partially by the visited
organism, for intercourse connotes reciprocity. Looking at the question in
this way it would seem that sin of Gomorrah is no less carnal intercourse than
the sin of sodomy. … It is to be remembered that the Penal Code does not,
except in Section 377, render abnormal sexual vice punishable at all. In
England indecent assaults are punishable very severely. It is possible that
under the Penal Code, some cases might be met by prosecuting the offender for
simple assault, but that is a compoundable offence and in any case the patient
could in no way be punished. It is to be supposed that the legislature
intended that a Tigellinus should carry  51 on his nefarious profession
perhaps vitiating and depraving hundreds of children with perfect immunity? I
doubt not, therefore, that coitus per os is punishable under Section 377 of
the Penal Code.‖
76\. In Suresh Koushal‘s case, there has also been a reference to the decision
of the Gujarat High Court in Lohana Vasantlal Devchand v. State 28 wherein the
issue presented before the High Court was whether an offence under Section 377
read with Section 511 IPC had been committed on account of the convict putting
his male organ in the mouth of the victim, if the act was done voluntarily by
him. A contention was raised that there was no penetration and, therefore,
there could not have been any carnal intercourse. The High Court referred to a
passage from the book ‗Pyschology of Sex‘ 29 authored by Mr. Havelock Ellis
which reads thus:-
> "While the kiss may be regarded as the typical and normal erogenic method of
> contrectation for the end of attaining tumescene, there are others only less
> important. Any orifical contact 'between persons of opposite sex' is
> sometimes almost equally as effective as the kiss in stimulating tumescene;
> all such contacts, indeed, belong to the group of which the kiss is the
> type, Cunnilinctus (often incorrectly termed cunnilingus) and fellatio
> cannot be regarded as unnatural for they have their prototypic forms among
> animals, and they are found among various savage 28 AIR 1968 Guj 252 29
> ‘Psychology of Sex’ Twelfth Impression, 1948, London  52 races. As forms of
> contrecttion and aides to tumescene they are thus natural and are sometimes
> regarded by both sexes as quintessential forms of sexual pleasure, though
> they may not be considered aesthetic. They become deviations, however, and
> this liable to be termed "perversions", when they replace the desire of
> coitus"‖
77\. After referring to the definition of sodomy, the pronouncement in Khanu
(supra), Stroud‘s Judicial Dictionary, 3rd Edition and Webster‘s New 20th
Century Dictionary, unabridged, 2nd Edition, the Gujarat High Court opined
thus:-
> ―In the instant case, there was an entry of a male penis in the orifice of
> the mouth of the victim. There was the enveloping of a visiting member by
> the visited organism. There was thus reciprocity; intercourse connotes
> reciprocity. It could, therefore, be said without any doubt in my mind that
> the act in question will amount to an offence, punishable under Section 337
> of the Indian Penal Code.‖
78\. The decision in State of Kerala v. Kundumkara Govindan and another30 has
also been reproduced in Suresh Koushal‘s case. The High Court of Kerala held
thus:-
> ―18. Even if I am to hold that there was no penetration into the vagina and
> the sexual acts were committed only between the thighs, I do not think that
> the respondents can escape conviction under Section 377 of the Penal Code.
> The counsel of the respondents contends (in this argument the Public
> Prosecutor also 301969 Cri LJ 818 (Ker)  53 supports him) that sexual act
> between the thighs is not intercourse. The argument is that for intercourse
> there must be encirclement of the male organ by the organ visited; and that
> in the case of sexual act between the thighs, there is no possibility of
> penetration.
19\. The word ‗intercourse‘ means ‗sexual connection‘ (Concise Oxford
Dictionary). In Khanu v. Emperor the meaning of the word ‗intercourse‘ has
been considered: (AIR p. 286) ‗Intercourse may be defined as mutual frequent
action by members of independent organisation.‘ Then commercial intercourse,
social intercourse, etc. have been considered; and then appears:
‗By a metaphor the word intercourse, like the word commerce, is applied to the
relations of the sexes. Here also there is the temporary visitation of one
organism by a member of the other organisation, for certain clearly defined
and limited objects. The primary object of the visiting organisation is to
obtain euphoria by means of a detent of the nerves consequent on the sexual
crisis. But there is no intercourse unless the visiting member is enveloped at
least partially by the visited organism, for intercourse connotes
reciprocity.‘ Therefore, to decide whether there is intercourse or not, what
is to be considered is whether the visiting organ is enveloped at least
partially by the visited organism. In intercourse between the thighs, the
visiting male organ is enveloped at least partially by the organism visited,
the thighs: the thighs are kept together and tight.
20\. Then about penetration. The word ‗penetrate‘ means in the Concise Oxford
Dictionary ‗find access into or through, pass through.‘ When the male organ is
inserted between the thighs kept together and tight, is there no penetration?
The word ‗insert‘ means place,  54 fit, thrust.‘ Therefore, if the male organ
is ‗inserted‘ or ‗thrust‘ between the thighs, there is ‗penetration‘ to
constitute unnatural offence.
21\. Unnatural offence is defined in Section 377 of the Penal Code; whoever
voluntarily has carnal intercourse against the order of nature with any man,
woman or animal commits unnatural offence. The act of committing intercourse
between the thighs is carnal intercourse against the order of nature.
Therefore committing intercourse by inserting the male organ between the
thighs of another is an unnatural offence. In this connection, it may be noted
that the act in Section 376 is ‗sexual intercourse‘ and the act in Section 377
is ‗carnal intercourse against the order of nature‘.
22\. The position in English law on this question has been brought to my
notice. The old decision of R. v. Samuel Jacobs 31 lays down that penetration
through the mouth does not amount to the offence of sodomy under English law.
The counsel therefore argues that sexual intercourse between the thighs cannot
also be an offence under Section 377 of the Penal Code. In Sirkar v. Gula
Mythien Pillai Chaithu Maho Mathu32 a Full Bench of the Travancore High Court
held that having connection with a person in the mouth was an offence under
Section 377 of the Penal Code. In a short judgment, the learned Judges held
that it was unnecessary to refer to English Statute Law and English text books
which proceeded upon an interpretation of the words sodomy, buggery and
bestiality; and that the words used in the Penal Code were very simple and
wide enough to include all acts against the order of nature. My view on the
question is also that the words of Section 377 are simple and wide enough to
include any carnal intercourse against the order of nature within its ambit.
Committing intercourse 31 1817 Russ & Ry 331 : 168 ER 830 (CCR) 32 (1908) 14
TLR Appendix 43 (Ker)  55 between the thighs of another is carnal intercourse
against the order of nature.‖
79\. In Calvin Francis v. State of Orissa33, the Orissa High Court had
reproduced certain passages from Corpus Juris Secundum, Vol. 81, pp. 368-70.
We may reproduce the same:-
> ―A statute providing that any person who shall commit any act or practice of
> sexual perversity, either with mankind or beast, on conviction shall be
> punished, is not limited to instances involving carnal copulation, but is
> restricted to cases involving the sex organ of at least one of the parties.
> The term ‗sexual perversity‘ does not refer to every physical contact by a
> male with the body of the female with intent to cause sexual satisfaction to
> the actor, but the condemnation of the statute is limited to unnatural
> conduct performed for the purpose of accomplishing abnormal sexual
> satisfaction for the actor. Under a statute providing that any person
> participating in the act or copulating the mouth of one person with the
> sexual organ of another is guilty of the offence a person is guilty of
> violating the statute when he has placed his mouth on the genital organ of
> another, and the offence may be committed by two persons of opposite sex.‖
80\. Referring to the said decision, the two-Judge Bench in Suresh Koushal‘s
case has opined:-
> ―60. However, from these cases no uniform test can be culled out to classify
> acts as ―carnal intercourse against the order of nature‖. In our opinion the
> acts which fall within the ambit of Section 377 IPC can only be determined
> with reference to the act itself and the circumstances in which it is
> executed. All the 33 1992 (1) OLR 316  56 aforementioned cases refer to non-
> consensual and markedly coercive situations and the keenness of the Court in
> bringing justice to the victims who were either women or children cannot be
> discounted while analysing the manner in which the section has been
> interpreted. We are apprehensive of whether the court would rule similarly
> in a case of proved consensual intercourse between adults. …‖
81\. From the aforesaid analysis, it is perceptible that the two-Judge Bench
has drawn a distinction between the ―class‖ and the ―act‖ that has been
treated as an offence. On a plain reading of the provision, it is noticeable
that the ―act‖ covers all categories of persons if the offence is committed.
Thus, the seminal issue that emerges for consideration, as has been understood
by various High Courts and this Court, is whether the act can be treated as a
criminal offence if it violates Articles 19(1)(a) and 21 of the Constitution.
Therefore, the provision has to be tested on the anvil of the said
constitutional provisions. Additionally, it is also to be tested on the
touchstone of Article 14 especially under the scanner of its second limb, that
is, manifest arbitrariness. For adjudging the aforesaid facets, certain
fundamental concepts which are intrinsically and integrally associated with
the expression of a person who enjoys certain inalienable natural rights which
also have been recognized under the Constitution are required to be addressed.
In this context, the individuality of a person  57 and the acceptance of
identity invite advertence to some necessary concepts which eventually
recognize the constitutional status of an individual that resultantly brushes
aside the ―act‖ and respects the dignity and choice of the individual.
G. The Constitution – an organic charter of progressive rights
82\. A democratic Constitution like ours is an organic and breathing document
with senses which are very much alive to its surroundings, for it has been
created in such a manner that it can adapt to the needs and developments
taking place in the society. It was highlighted by this Court in the case of
Chief Justice of Andhra Pradesh and others v. L.V.A. Dixitulu and others 34
that the Constitution is a living, integrated organism having a soul and
consciousness of its own and its pulse beats, emanating from the spinal cord
of its basic framework, can be felt all over its body, even in the extremities
of its limbs.
83\. In the case of Saurabh Chaudri and others v. Union of India and others35,
it was observed:-
"Our Constitution is organic in nature, being a living organ, it is ongoing
and with the passage of time, law 34 (1979) 2 SCC 34 35 (2003) 11 SCC 146  58
must change. Horizons of constitutional law are expanding."
84\. Thus, we are required to keep in view the dynamic concepts inherent in
the Constitution that have the potential to enable and urge the constitutional
courts to beam with expansionism that really grows to adapt to the ever-
changing circumstances without losing the identity of the Constitution. The
idea of identity of the individual and the constitutional legitimacy behind
the same is of immense significance. Therefore, in this context, the duty of
the constitutional courts gets accentuated. We emphasize on the role of the
constitutional courts in realizing the evolving nature of this living
instrument. Through its dynamic and purposive interpretative approach, the
judiciary must strive to breathe life into the Constitution and not render the
document a collection of mere dead letters. The following observations made in
the case of Ashok Kumar Gupta and another v. State of U.P. and others36
further throws light on this role of the courts:-
> "Therefore, it is but the duty of the Court to supply vitality, blood and
> flesh, to balance the competing rights by interpreting the principles, to
> the language or the words contained in the living and organic Constitution,
> broadly and liberally."
36 (1997) 5 SCC 201  59
85\. The rights that are guaranteed as Fundamental Rights under our
Constitution are the dynamic and timeless rights of 'liberty' and 'equality'
and it would be against the principles of our Constitution to give them a
static interpretation without recognizing their transformative and evolving
nature. The argument does not lie in the fact that the concepts underlying
these rights change with the changing times but the changing times illustrate
and illuminate the concepts underlying the said rights. In this regard, the
observations in Video Electronics Pvt. Ltd. and another v. State of Punjab and
another37 are quite instructive:-
> "Constitution is a living organism and the latent meaning of the expressions
> used can be given effect to only if a particular situation arises. It is not
> that with changing times the meaning changes but changing times illustrate
> and illuminate the meaning of the expressions used. The connotation of the
> expressions used takes its shape and colour in evolving dynamic situations."
86\. Our Constitution fosters and strengthens the spirit of equality and
envisions a society where every person enjoys equal rights which enable
him/her to grow and realize his/her potential as an individual. This guarantee
of recognition of individuality runs through the entire 37 (1990) 3 SCC 87  60
length and breadth of this dynamic instrument. The Constitution has been
conceived of and designed in a manner which acknowledges the fact that 'change
is inevitable'. It is the duty of the courts to realize the constitutional
vision of equal rights in consonance with the current demands and situations
and not to read and interpret the same as per the standards of equality that
existed decades ago. The judiciary cannot remain oblivious to the fact that
the society is constantly evolving and many a variation may emerge with the
changing times. There is a constant need to transform the constitutional
idealism into reality by fostering respect for human rights, promoting
inclusion of pluralism, bringing harmony, that is, unity amongst diversity,
abandoning the idea of alienation or some unacceptable social notions built on
medieval egos and establishing the cult of egalitarian liberalism founded on
reasonable principles that can withstand scrutiny.
87\. In Ashok Kumar Gupta (supra), the Court had observed that common sense
has always served in the court's ceaseless striving as a voice of reason to
maintain the blend of change and continuity of order which are sine qua non
for stability in the process of change in a parliamentary democracy. The Court
ruled that it is not bound to  61 accept an interpretation which retards the
progress or impedes social integration. The Court further observed that it is
required to adopt such interpretation which would give the ideals set out in
the Preamble to the Constitution aided by Part III and Part IV a meaningful
and living reality for all sections of the society.
88\. It is through this armoury of expansive dynamism that the courts have
been able to give an all-inclusive interpretation to the fundamental rights
enshrined in Part III of our Constitution. This is borne testimony by the
decisions of the constitutional courts which have evolved views for extending
the protection of fundamental rights to those who have been deprived of the
enjoyment of the same. If not for such an approach adopted by the courts, our
Constitution and its progressive principles would have been rendered
ineffective and the dynamic charter would be reduced to a mere ornate document
without any purpose or object.
89\. The Court, as the final arbiter of the Constitution, has to keep in view
the necessities of the needy and the weaker sections. The role of the Court
assumes further importance when the class or community whose rights are in
question are those who have been the object of humiliation, discrimination,
separation and violence by not  62 only the State and the society at large but
also at the hands of their very own family members. The development of law
cannot be a mute spectator to the struggle for the realisation and attainment
of the rights of such members of the society.
90\. The authority in NALSA is one such recent illustration where the rights
of transgenders as a third sex was recognized which had been long due in a
democracy like ours. This Court ruled: -
> "It is now very well recognized that the Constitution is a living character;
> its interpretation must be dynamic. It must be understood in a way that
> intricate and advances modern realty. The judiciary is the guardian of the
> Constitution and by ensuring to grant legitimate right that is due to TGs,
> we are simply protecting the Constitution and the democracy inasmuch as
> judicial protection and democracy in general and of human rights in
> particular is a characteristic of our vibrant democracy.
> As we have pointed out above, our Constitution inheres liberal and
> substantive democracy with rule of law as an important and fundamental
> pillar. It has its own internal morality based on dignity and equality of
> all human beings. Rule of law demands protection of individual human rights.
> Such rights are to be guaranteed to each and every human being. These TGs,
> even though insignificant in numbers, are still human beings and therefore
> they have every right to enjoy their human rights."
The ‗living document‘ concept finds place in several international authorities
as well. The courts in other jurisdictions have  63 endorsed the view that the
Constitution is forever evolving in nature and that a progressive approach is
mandated by the principles inherent in the Constitution itself.
91\. The Supreme Court of Canada, while giving an expansive interpretation to
marriage by including same-sex unions within its encompass, in Re: Same Sex
Marriage38, has observed:-
> "The "frozen concepts" reasoning runs contrary to one of the most
> fundamental principles of Canadian constitutional interpretation: that our
> Constitution is a living tree which, by way of progressive interpretation,
> accommodates and addresses the realities of modern life."
92\. As early as the 1920s, the Supreme Court of the United States in the case
of State of Missouri v. Holland 39 , while making a comparison between the
‗instrument in dispute' and the 'Constitution', had made the following
observations with regard to the nature of the Constitution:-
> "When we are dealing with words that also are a constituent act, like the
> Constitution of the United States, we must realize that they have called
> into life a being the development of which could not have been foreseen
> completely by the most gifted of its begetters.
It was enough for them to realize or to hope that they had created an
organism; it has taken a century and 38[2004] 3 S.C.R. 698 39 252 U.S. 416
(1920)  64 has cost their successors much sweat and blood to prove that they
created a nation."
93\. In one of his celebrated works, Judge Richard Posner made certain
observations which would be relevant to be reproduced here:-
> "A constitution that did not invalidate so offensive, oppressive, probably
> undemocratic, and sectarian law [as the Connecticut law banning
> contraceptives] would stand revealed as containing major gaps. Maybe that is
> the nature of our, or perhaps any, written Constitution; but yet, perhaps
> the courts are authorized to plug at least the most glaring gaps. Does
> anyone really believe, in his heart of hearts, that the Constitution should
> be interpreted so literally as to authorize every conceivable law that would
> not violate a specific constitutional clause? This would mean that a state
> could require everyone to marry, or to have intercourse at least once a
> month, or it could take away every couple's second child and place it in a
> foster home.... We find it reassuring to think that the courts stand between
> us and legislative tyranny even if a particular form of tyranny was not
> foreseen and expressly forbidden by framers of the Constitution."40
94\. Thus, it is demonstrable that expansive growth of constitutional idealism
is embedded in the theory of progress, abandonment of status quoist attitude,
expansion of the concept of inclusiveness and constant remembrance of the
principle of fitting into the norm of change with a constitutional philosophy.
40 Posner, Richard: (1992) Sex and Reason, Harvard University Press, pg. 328.
ISBN 0-674- 80280-2  65 H. Transformative constitutionalism and the rights of
LGBT community
95\. For understanding the need of having a constitutional democracy and for
solving the million dollar question as to why we adopted the Constitution, we
perhaps need to understand the concept of transformative constitutionalism
with some degree of definiteness. In this quest of ours, the ideals enshrined
in the Preamble to our Constitution would be a guiding laser beam. The
ultimate goal of our magnificent Constitution is to make right the upheaval
which existed in the Indian society before the adopting of the Constitution.
The Court in State of Kerala and another v. N.M. Thomas and others 41 observed
that the Indian Constitution is a great social document, almost revolutionary
in its aim of transforming a medieval, hierarchical society into a modern,
egalitarian democracy and its provisions can be comprehended only by a
spacious, social- science approach, not by pedantic, traditional legalism. The
whole idea of having a Constitution is to guide the nation towards a
resplendent future. Therefore, the purpose of having a Constitution is to
transform the society for the better and this objective is the fundamental
pillar of transformative constitutionalism. 41 AIR 1976 SC 490  66
96\. The concept of transformative constitutionalism has at its kernel a
pledge, promise and thirst to transform the Indian society so as to embrace
therein, in letter and spirit, the ideals of justice, liberty, equality and
fraternity as set out in the Preamble to our Constitution. The expression
‗transformative constitutionalism‘ can be best understood by embracing a
pragmatic lens which will help in recognizing the realities of the current
day. Transformation as a singular term is diametrically opposed to something
which is static and stagnant, rather it signifies change, alteration and the
ability to metamorphose. Thus, the concept of transformative
constitutionalism, which is an actuality with regard to all Constitutions and
particularly so with regard to the Indian Constitution, is, as a matter of
fact, the ability of the Constitution to adapt and transform with the changing
needs of the times.
97\. It is this ability of a Constitution to transform which gives it the
character of a living and organic document. A Constitution continuously shapes
the lives of citizens in particular and societies in general. Its exposition
and energetic appreciation by constitutional courts constitute the lifeblood
of progressive societies. The Constitution would become a stale and dead
testament without  67 dynamic, vibrant and pragmatic interpretation.
Constitutional provisions have to be construed and developed in such a manner
that their real intent and existence percolates to all segments of the
society. That is the raison d'etre for the Constitution.
98\. The Supreme Court as well as other constitutional courts have time and
again realized that in a society undergoing fast social and economic change,
static judicial interpretation of the Constitution would stultify the spirit
of the Constitution. Accordingly, the constitutional courts, while viewing the
Constitution as a transformative document, have ardently fulfilled their
obligation to act as the sentinel on qui vive for guarding the rights of all
individuals irrespective of their sex, choice and sexual orientation.
99\. The purpose of transformative constitutionalism has been aptly described
in the case of Road Accident Fund and another v. Mdeyide42 wherein the
Constitutional Court of South Africa, speaking in the context of the
transformative role of the Constitution of South Africa, had observed:-
> ―Our Constitution has often been described as ―transformative‖. One of the
> most important purposes of this transformation is to ensure that, by the
> realisation of fundamental socio-economic rights, 422008 (1) SA 535 (CC)  68
> people disadvantaged by their deprived social and economic circumstances
> become more capable of enjoying a life of dignity, freedom and equality that
> lies at the heart of our constitutional democracy.‖
100\. In Bato Star Fishing (Pty) Ltd v. Minister of Environmental Affairs and
Tourism and others43, the Constitutional Court of South Africa opined:-
> ―The achievement of equality is one of the fundamental goals that we have
> fashioned for ourselves in the Constitution. Our constitutional order is
> committed to the transformation of our society from a grossly unequal
> society to one "in which there is equality between men and women and people
> of all races". In this fundamental way, our Constitution differs from other
> constitutions which assume that all are equal and in so doing simply
> entrench existing inequalities. Our Constitution recognises that decades of
> systematic racial discrimination entrenched by the apartheid legal order
> cannot be eliminated without positive action being taken to achieve that
> result. We are required to do more than that. The effects of discrimination
> may continue indefinitely unless there is a commitment to end it."
101\. Davies44 understands transformation as follows:-
> "Transformation which is based on the continuing evaluation and modification
> of a complex material and ideological environment cannot be reduced to a
> scientific theory of change, like those of evolution or the halflife of
> radioactive substances ... practical change occurs within a climate of
> serious reflection, 43 [2004] ZACC 15 44 Asking the Law Question: The
> Dissolution of Legal Theory 205 (2002), Margaret Davies.
69
> and diversity of opinion is in my view absolutely essential as a stimulus to
> theory."
45
102\. A J Van der Walt has metaphorically, by comparing 'constitutional
transformation' to 'dancing', described the art of constitutional
transformation to be continually progressive where one does not stop from
daring to imagine alternatives and that the society could be different and a
better place where the rights of every individual are given due recognition:-
> "However, even when we trade the static imagery of position, standing, for
> the more complex imagery of dancing, we still have to resist the temptation
> to see transformation as linear movement or progress - from authoritarianism
> to justification, from one dancing code to another, or from volkspele
> jurisprudence to toyitoyi jurisprudence... I suggest that we should not only
> switch to a more complex metaphorical code such as dancing when discussing
> transformation, but that we should also deconstruct the codes we dance to;
> pause to reflect upon the language in terms of which we think and talk and
> reason about constitutionalism, about rights, and about transformation, and
> recognize the liberating and the captivating potential of the codes shaping
> and shaped by that language.
103\. Again, the Supreme Court of South Africa in President of the Republic of
South Africa v. Hugo46 observed that the prohibition on unfair discrimination
in the interim Constitution seeks not only to 45 Van der Walt, Dancing with
codes - Protecting, developing and deconstructing property rights in a
constitutional state, 118 (2) J. S. APR. L. 258 (2001) 46 (1997) 6 B.C.L.R.
708 (CC)  70 avoid discrimination against people who are members of
disadvantaged groups but also that at the heart of the prohibition of unfair
discrimination lies a recognition that the purpose of our new constitutional
and democratic order is the establishment of a society in which all human
beings will be accorded equal dignity and respect, regardless of their
membership of particular groups.
104\. Equality does not only imply recognition of individual dignity but also
includes within its sphere ensuring of equal opportunity to advance and
develop their human potential and social, economic and legal interests of
every individual and the process of transformative constitutionalism is
dedicated to this purpose. It has been observed by Albertyn & Goldblatt47:-
> "The challenge of achieving equality within this transformation project
> involves the eradication of systemic forms of discrimination and material
> disadvantage based on race, gender, class and other forms of inequality. It
> also entails the development of opportunities which allow people to realise
> their full human potential within positive social relationships."
105\. In Investigating Directorate: Serious Economic Offences and others v.
Hyundai Motor Distributors (Pty) Ltd and others: In 47 Albertyn & Goldblatt,
Facing the challenge of transformation: Difficulties in the development of an
indigenous jurisprudence of equality, 14 S. AFR. J. HUM. RTS. 248 (1998)  71
Re Hyundai Motor Distributors (Pty) Ltd and others v. Smit NO and others48,
the Constitutional Court of South Africa observed:-
> "The Constitution is located in a history which involves a transition from a
> society based on division, injustice and exclusion from the democratic
> process to one which respects the dignity of all citizens and includes all
> in the process of governance. As such, the process of interpreting the
> Constitution must recognise the context in which we find ourselves and the
> Constitution's goal of a society based on democratic values, social justice
> and fundamental human rights. This spirit of transition and transformation
> characterises the constitutional enterprise as a whole.
> ... The Constitution requires that judicial officers read legislation, where
> possible, in ways which give effect to its fundamental values. Consistently
> with this, when the constitutionality of legislation is in issue, they are
> under a duty to examine the objects and purport of an Act and to read the
> provisions of the legislation, so far as is possible, in conformity with the
> Constitution."
106\. The society has changed much now, not just from the year 1860 when the
Indian Penal Code was brought into force but there has also been continuous
progressive change. In many spheres, the sexual minorities have been accepted.
They have been given space after the NALSA judgment but the offence punishable
under Section 377 IPC, as submitted, creates a chilling effect. The freedom
that is required to be attached to sexuality still remains in the pavilion
with 482001 (1) SA 545 (CC)  72 no nerves to move. The immobility due to fear
corrodes the desire to express one‘s own sexual orientation as a consequence
of which the body with flesh and bones feels itself caged and a sense of fear
gradually converts itself into a skeleton sans spirit.
107\. The question of freedom of choosing a partner is reflective from a
catena of recent judgments of this Court such as Shafin Jahan (supra) wherein
the Court held that a person who has come of age and has the capability to
think on his/her own has a right to choose his/her life partner. It is
apposite to reproduce some of the observations made by the Court which are to
the following effect:-
> ―It is obligatory to state here that expression of choice in accord with law
> is acceptance of individual identity. Curtailment of that expression and the
> ultimate action emanating therefrom on the conceptual structuralism of
> obeisance to the societal will destroy the individualistic entity of a
> person. The social values and morals have their space but they are not above
> the constitutionally guaranteed freedom. The said freedom is both a
> constitutional and a human right. Deprivation of that freedom which is
> ingrained in choice on the plea of faith is impermissible.‖
108\. Recently, in Shakti Vahini (supra), the Court has ruled that the right
to choose a life partner is a facet of individual liberty and the Court, for
the protection of this right, issued preventive, remedial and  73 punitive
measures to curb the menace of honour killings. The Court observed:-
> ―When the ability to choose is crushed in the name of class honour and the
> person‘s physical frame is treated with absolute indignity, a chilling
> effect dominates over the brains and bones of the society at large.‖
109\. An argument is sometimes advanced that what is permissible between two
adults engaged in acceptable sexual activity is different in the case of two
individuals of the same sex, be it homosexuals or lesbians, and the ground of
difference is supported by social standardization. Such an argument ignores
the individual orientation, which is naturally natural, and disrobes the
individual of his/her identity and the inherent dignity and choice attached to
his/her being.
110\. The principle of transformative constitutionalism also places upon the
judicial arm of the State a duty to ensure and uphold the supremacy of the
Constitution, while at the same time ensuring that a sense of transformation
is ushered constantly and endlessly in the society by interpreting and
enforcing the Constitution as well as other provisions of law in consonance
with the avowed object. The idea is to steer the country and its institutions
in a democratic egalitarian direction where there is increased protection of
fundamental rights  74 and other freedoms. It is in this way that
transformative constitutionalism attains the status of an ideal model imbibing
the philosophy and morals of constitutionalism and fostering greater respect
for human rights. It ought to be remembered that the Constitution is not a
mere parchment; it derives its strength from the ideals and values enshrined
in it. However, it is only when we adhere to constitutionalism as the supreme
creed and faith and develop a constitutional culture to protect the
fundamental rights of an individual that we can preserve and strengthen the
values of our compassionate Constitution.
I. Constitutional morality and Section 377 IPC
111\. The concept of constitutional morality is not limited to the mere
observance of the core principles of constitutionalism as the magnitude and
sweep of constitutional morality is not confined to the provisions and literal
text which a Constitution contains, rather it embraces within itself virtues
of a wide magnitude such as that of ushering a pluralistic and inclusive
society, while at the same time adhering to the other principles of
constitutionalism. It is further the result of embodying constitutional
morality that the values of constitutionalism trickle down and percolate
through the apparatus of  75 the State for the betterment of each and every
individual citizen of the State.
112\. In one of the Constituent Assembly Debates, Dr. Ambedkar, explaining the
concept of constitutional morality by quoting the Greek historian, George
Grote, said:-
> "By constitutional morality, Grote meant... a paramount reverence for the
> forms of the constitution, enforcing obedience to authority and acting under
> and within these forms, yet combined with the habit of open speech, of
> action subject only to definite legal control, and unrestrained censure of
> those very authorities as to all their public acts combined, too with a
> perfect confidence in the bosom of every citizen amidst the bitterness of
> party contest that the forms of constitution wall not be less sacred in the
> eyes of his opponents than his own."49
113\. Our Constitution was visualized with the aim of securing to the citizens
of our country inalienable rights which were essential for fostering a spirit
of growth and development and at the same time ensuring that the three organs
of the State working under the aegis of the Constitution and deriving their
authority from the supreme document, that is, the Constitution, practise
constitutional morality. The Executive, the Legislature and the Judiciary all
have to stay alive to the concept of constitutional morality.
49 Constituent Assembly Debates, Vol. 7 (4th November 1948)  76
114\. In the same speech50, Dr. Ambedkar had quoted George Grote who had
observed:-
> "The diffusion of 'constitutional morality', not merely among the majority
> of any community, but throughout the whole is the indispensable condition of
> a government at once free and peaceable; since even any powerful and
> obstinate minority may render the working of a free institution
> impracticable, without being strong enough to conquer ascendance for
> themselves."51 This statement of Dr. Ambedkar underscores that
> constitutional morality is not a natural forte for our country for the
> simple reason that our country had attained freedom after a long period of
> colonial rule and, therefore, constitutional morality at the time when the
> Constituent Assembly was set up was an alien notion. However, the
> strengthening of constitutional morality in contemporary India remains a
> duty of the organs of the State including the Judiciary.
115\. The society as a whole or even a minuscule part of the society may
aspire and prefer different things for themselves. They are perfectly
competent to have such a freedom to be different, like different things, so on
and so forth, provided that their different tastes and liking remain within
their legal framework and neither violates any statute nor results in the
abridgement of fundamental rights of any 50 Ibid 51 Grote, A History of
Greece. Routledge, London, 2000, p. 93.  77 other citizen. The Preambular
goals of our Constitution which contain the noble objectives of Justice,
Liberty, Equality and Fraternity can only be achieved through the commitment
and loyalty of the organs of the State to the principle of constitutional
morality.
116\. It is the concept of constitutional morality which strives and urges the
organs of the State to maintain such a heterogeneous fibre in the society, not
just in the limited sense, but also in multifarious ways. It is the
responsibility of all the three organs of the State to curb any propensity or
proclivity of popular sentiment or majoritarianism. Any attempt to push and
shove a homogeneous, uniform, consistent and a standardised philosophy
throughout the society would violate the principle of constitutional morality.
Devotion and fidelity to constitutional morality must not be equated with the
popular sentiment prevalent at a particular point of time.
117\. Any asymmetrical attitude in the society, so long as it is within the
legal and constitutional framework, must at least be provided an environment
in which it could be sustained, if not fostered. It is only when such an
approach is adopted that the freedom of expression including that of choice
would be allowed to prosper and flourish and  78 if that is achieved, freedom
and liberty, which is the quintessence of constitutional morality, will be
allowed to survive.
118\. In Government of NCT of Delhi v. Union of India and others52, one of us
(Dipak Misra, CJI) observed:-
> "Constitutional morality, appositely understood, means the morality that has
> inherent elements in the constitutional norms and the conscience of the
> Constitution. Any act to garner justification must possess the potentiality
> to be in harmony with the constitutional impulse. We may give an example.
> When one is expressing an idea of generosity, he may not be meeting the
> standard of justness. There may be an element of condescension. But when one
> shows justness in action, there is no feeling of any grant or generosity.
> That will come within the normative value. That is the test of
> constitutional justness which falls within the sweep of constitutional
> morality. It advocates the principle of constitutional justness without
> subjective exposition of generosity."
119\. The duty of the constitutional courts is to adjudge the validity of law
on well-established principles, namely, legislative competence or violations
of fundamental rights or of any other constitutional provisions. At the same
time, it is expected from the courts as the final arbiter of the Constitution
to uphold the cherished principles of the Constitution and not to be remotely
guided by majoritarian view or 522018 (8) SCALE 72  79 popular perception. The
Court has to be guided by the conception of constitutional morality and not by
the societal morality.
120\. We may hasten to add here that in the context of the issue at hand, when
a penal provision is challenged as being violative of the fundamental rights
of a section of the society, notwithstanding the fact whether the said section
of the society is a minority or a majority, the magna cum laude and creditable
principle of constitutional morality, in a constitutional democracy like ours
where the rule of law prevails, must not be allowed to be trampled by obscure
notions of social morality which have no legal tenability. The concept of
constitutional morality would serve as an aid for the Court to arrive at a
just decision which would be in consonance with the constitutional rights of
the citizens, howsoever small that fragment of the populace may be. The idea
of number, in this context, is meaningless; like zero on the left side of any
number.
121\. In this regard, we have to telescopically analyse social morality vis-à-
vis constitutional morality. It needs no special emphasis to state that
whenever the constitutional courts come across a situation of transgression or
dereliction in the sphere of fundamental rights, which are also the basic
human rights of a section, howsoever small part of  80 the society, then it is
for the constitutional courts to ensure, with the aid of judicial engagement
and creativity, that constitutional morality prevails over social morality.
122\. In the garb of social morality, the members of the LGBT community must
not be outlawed or given a step-motherly treatment of malefactor by the
society. If this happens or if such a treatment to the LGBT community is
allowed to persist, then the constitutional courts, which are under the
obligation to protect the fundamental rights, would be failing in the
discharge of their duty. A failure to do so would reduce the citizenry rights
to a cipher.
123\. We must not forget that the founding fathers adopted an inclusive
Constitution with provisions that not only allowed the State, but also, at
times, directed the State, to undertake affirmative action to eradicate the
systematic discrimination against the backward sections of the society and the
expulsion and censure of the vulnerable communities by the so-called upper
caste/sections of the society that existed on a massive scale prior to coming
into existence of the Constituent Assembly. These were nothing but facets of
the majoritarian social morality which were sought to be rectified by bringing
into force the Constitution of India. Thus, the adoption of the  81
Constitution, was, in a way, an instrument or agency for achieving
constitutional morality and means to discourage the prevalent social morality
at that time. A country or a society which embraces constitutional morality
has at its core the well-founded idea of inclusiveness.
124\. While testing the constitutional validity of impugned provision of law,
if a constitutional court is of the view that the impugned provision falls
foul to the precept of constitutional morality, then the said provision has to
be declared as unconstitutional for the pure and simple reason that the
constitutional courts exist to uphold the Constitution.
J. Perspective of human dignity
125\. While discussing about the role of human dignity in gay rights
adjudication and legislation, Michele Finck53 observes:-
> ―As a concept devoid of a precise legal meaning, yet widely appealing at an
> intuitive level, dignity- can be easily manipulated and transposed into a
> number of legal contexts. With regard to the rights of lesbian and gay
> individuals, dignity captures what Nussbaum described as the transition from
> "disgust" to "humanity." Once looked at with disgust and considered unworthy
> of some rights, there is 53The role of human dignity in gay rights
> adjudication and legislation: A comparative perspective, Michele Finck,
> International Journal of Constitutional Law, Volume 14, Jan 2016, page no.26
> to 53  82 increasing consensus that homosexuals should no longer be deprived
> of the benefits of citizenship that are available to heterosexuals, such as
> the ability to contract marriage, on the sole ground of their sexual
> orientation. Homosexuals are increasingly considered as "full humans"
> disposing of equal rights, and dignity functions as the vocabulary that
> translates such socio- cultural change into legal change‖
126\. The Universal Declaration of Human Rights, 1948 became the Magna Carta
of people all over the world. The first Article of the UDHR was uncompromising
in its generality of application: All human beings are born free and equal in
dignity and rights. Justice Kirby succinctly observed:-
> ―This language embraced every individual in our world. It did not apply only
> to citizens. It did not apply only to 'white' people. It did not apply only
> to good people. Prisoners, murderers and even traitors were to be entitled
> to the freedoms that were declared. There were no exceptions to the
> principles of equality.‖54
127\. The fundamental idea of dignity is regarded as an inseparable facet of
human personality. Dignity has been duly recognized as an important aspect of
the right to life under Article 21 of the Constitution. In the international
sphere, the right to live with dignity had been identified as a human right
way back in 1948 with the introduction of the Universal Declaration of Human
Rights. The constitutional courts 54Human Rights Gay Rights by Michael Kirby,
Published in ‘Humane Rights’ in 2016 by Future Leaders  83 of our country have
solemnly dealt with the task of assuring and preserving the right to dignity
of each and every individual whenever the occasion arises, for without the
right to live with dignity, all other fundamental rights may not realise their
complete meaning.
128\. To understand a person‘s dignity, one has to appreciate how the dignity
of another is to be perceived. Alexis de Tocqueville tells us55:-
> ―Whenever I find myself in the presence of another human being, of whatever
> station, my dominant feeling is not so much to serve him or please him as
> not to offend his dignity.‖
129\. Every individual has many possessions which assume the position of
his/her definitive characteristics. There may not be any obsession with them
but he/she may abhor to be denuded of them, for they are sacred to him/her and
so inseparably associated that he/she may not conceive of any dissolution.
He/she would like others to respect the said attributes with a singular
acceptable condition that there is mutual respect. Mutual respect abandons
outside interference and is averse to any kind of interdiction. It is based on
the precept that the individuality of an individual is recognized, accepted
and respected. Such respect for the conception of dignity 5556, New York State
Bar Journal (No 3. April, 1984), p.50  84 has become a fundamental right under
Article 21 of the Constitution and that ushers in the right of liberty of
expression. Dignity and liberty as a twin concept in a society that cares for
both, apart from painting a grand picture of humanity, also smoothens the
atmosphere by promoting peaceful co-existence and thereby makes the
administration of justice easy. In such a society, everyone becomes a part of
the social engineering process where rights as inviolable and sacrosanct
principles are adhered to; individual choice is not an exception and each one
gets his/her space. Though no tower is built, yet the tower of individual
rights with peaceful co-existence is visible.
130\. In Common Cause (A Regd. Society) (supra), one of us has observed that
human dignity is beyond definition and it may, at times, defy description. To
some, it may seem to be in the world of abstraction and some may even
perversely treat it as an attribute of egotism or accentuated eccentricity.
This feeling may come from the roots of absolute cynicism, but what really
matters is that life without dignity is like a sound that is not heard.
Dignity speaks, it has its sound, it is natural and human. It is a combination
of thought and feeling.
85
131\. In Maneka Gandhi v. Union of India and another56, Krishna Iyer, J.
observed that life is a terrestrial opportunity for unfolding personality and
when any aspect of Article 21 is viewed in a truncated manner, several other
freedoms fade out automatically. It has to be borne in mind that dignity of
all is a sacrosanct human right and sans dignity, human life loses its
substantial meaning.
132\. Dignity is that component of one‘s being without which sustenance of
his/her being to the fullest or completest is inconceivable. In the theatre of
life, without possession of the attribute of identity with dignity, the entity
may be allowed entry to the centre stage but would be characterized as a
spineless entity or, for that matter, projected as a ruling king without the
sceptre. The purpose of saying so is that the identity of every individual
attains the quality of an ―individual being‖ only if he/she has the dignity.
Dignity while expressive of choice is averse to creation of any dent. When
biological expression, be it an orientation or optional expression of choice,
is faced with impediment, albeit through any imposition of law, the
individual‘s natural and constitutional right is dented. Such a situation
urges the conscience of the final constitutional arbiter to 56 (1978) 1 SCC
248  86 demolish the obstruction and remove the impediment so as to allow the
full blossoming of the natural and constitutional rights of individuals. This
is the essence of dignity and we say, without any inhibition, that it is our
constitutional duty to allow the individual to behave and conduct
himself/herself as he/she desires and allow him/her to express
himself/herself, of course, with the consent of the other. That is the right
to choose without fear. It has to be ingrained as a necessary pre-requisite
that consent is the real fulcrum of any sexual relationship.
133\. In this context, we may travel a little abroad. In Law v. Canada
(Minister of Employment and Immigration)57 capturing the essence of dignity,
the Supreme Court of Canada has made the following observations:-
> "Human dignity means that an individual or group feels self-respect and
> self-worth. It is concerned with physical and psychological integrity and
> empowerment. Human dignity is harmed by unfair treatment premised upon
> personal traits or circumstances which do not relate to individual needs,
> capacities, or merits. It is enhanced by laws which are sensitive to the
> needs, capacities, and merits of different individuals, taking into account
> the context underlying their differences.
Human dignity is harmed when individuals and groups are marginalized, ignored,
or devalued, and is 57 1999 1 S.C.R. 497  87 enhanced when laws recognise the
full place of all individuals and groups within Canadian society."
134\. It is not only the duty of the State and the Judiciary to protect this
basic right to dignity, but the collective at large also owes a responsibility
to respect one another's dignity, for showing respect for the dignity of
another is a constitutional duty. It is an expression of the component of
constitutional fraternity.
135\. The concept of dignity gains importance in the present scenario, for a
challenge has been raised to a provision of law which encroaches upon this
essential right of a severely deprived section of our society. An individual's
choice to engage in certain acts within their private sphere has been
restricted by criminalising the same on account of the age old social
perception. To harness such an essential decision, which defines the
individualism of a person, by tainting it with criminality would violate the
individual's right to dignity by reducing it to mere letters without any
spirit.
136\. The European Court of Justice in P v. S 58 in the context of rights of
individuals who intend to or have undergone sex reassignment has observed that
where a person is dismissed on the ground that he or she intends to undergo or
has undergone gender 58 Judgment of 30 April 1996. P v S and Cornwall County
Council Case C-13/94. paras. 21-22.  88 reassignment, he or she is treated
unfavorably by comparison with persons of the sex to which he or she was
deemed to belong before undergoing gender reassignment. To tolerate such
discrimination would tantamount, as regards such a person, to a failure to
respect the dignity and freedom to which he or she is entitled and which the
Court has a duty to safeguard.
137\. In Planned Parenthood of Southeastern Pa. v. Casey59, the United States
Supreme Court had opined that such matters which involve the most intimate and
personal choices a person may make in a lifetime, choices central to personal
dignity and autonomy, are central to the liberty protected by the Fourteenth
Amendment.
138\. From the aforesaid pronouncements, some in different spheres but some
also in the sphere of sexual orientation, the constitutional courts have laid
emphasis on individual inclination, expression of both emotional and physical
behaviour and freedom of choice, of course, subject to the consent of the
other. A biological engagement, in contradistinction to going to a restaurant
or going to a theatre to see a film or a play, is founded on company wherein
both the parties have consented for the act. The inclination is an expression
of choice that 59505 U.S. 833 (1992)  89 defines the personality to
cumulatively build up the elevated paradigm of dignity. Be it clarified that
expression of choice, apart from being a facet of dignity, is also an
essential component of liberty. Liberty as a concept has to be given its due
place in the realm of dignity, for both are connected with the life and living
of a persona.
K. Sexual orientation
139\. After stating about the value of dignity, we would have proceeded to
deal with the cherished idea of privacy which has recently received concrete
clarity in Puttaswamy‘s case. Prior to that, we are advised to devote some
space to sexual orientation and the instructive definition of LGBT by Michael
Kirby, former Judge of the High Court of Australia:-
―Homosexual: People of either gender who are attracted, sexually, emotionally
and in relationships, to persons of the same sex. Bisexual: Women who are
attracted to both sexes; men who are attracted to both sexes.
Lesbian: Women who are attracted to women.
Gay: Men who are attracted to men, although this term is sometimes also used
generically for all same-sex attracted persons.  90 Gender identity: A
phenomenon distinct from sexual orientation which refers to whether a person
identifies as male or female. This identity' may exist whether there is
"conformity or non-conformity" between their physical or biological or birth
sex and their psychological sex and the way they express it through physical
characteristics, appearance and conduct. It applies whether, in the Indian
sub-continent, they identify as hijra or kothi or by another name.
Intersex: Persons who are born with a chromosomal pattern or physical
characteristics that do not clearly fall on one side or the other of a binary
malefemale line.
LGBT or LGBTIQ: Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transsexual, Intersex and Queer
minorities. The word 'Queer' is sometimes used generically, usually by younger
people, to include the members of all of the sexual minorities. I usually
avoid this expression because of its pejorative overtones within an audience
unfamiliar with the expression. However, it is spreading and, amongst the
young, is often seen as an instance of taking possession of a pejorative word
in order to remove its sting.
91
MSM: Men who have sex with men. This expression is common in United Nations
circles. It refers solely to physical, sexual activity by men with men. The
expression is used on the basis that in some countries - including India -
some men may engage in sexual acts with their own sex although not identifying
as homosexual or even accepting a romantic or relationship emotion.‖60
140\. Presently, we shall focus on the aspect of sexual orientation. Every
human being has certain basic biological characteristics and acquires or
develops some facets under certain circumstances. The first can generally be
termed as inherent orientation that is natural to his/her being. The second
can be described as a demonstration of his/her choice which gradually becomes
an inseparable quality of his/her being, for the individual also leans on a
different expression because of the inclination to derive satisfaction. The
third one has the proclivity which he/she maintains and does not express any
other inclination. The first one is homosexuality, the second, bisexuality and
third, heterosexuality. The third one is regarded as natural and the first
one, by the same standard, is treated to be unnatural. When the second
category 60SexualOrientation & Gender Identity – A New Province of Law for
India, J. Michael D. Kirby, Tagore Lectures, 2013  92 exercises his/her choice
of homosexuality and involves in such an act, the same is also not accepted.
In sum, the ‗act‘ is treated either in accord with nature or against the order
of nature in terms of societal perception.
141\. The Yogyakarta Principles define the expression "sexual orientation‖
thus:-
> "Sexual Orientation" is understood to refer to each person's capacity for
> profound emotional, affectional and sexual attraction to and intimate and
> sexual relations with, individuals of a different gender or the same gender
> or more than one gender."
142\. In its study, the American Psychological Association has attempted to
define ―sexual orientation‖ in the following manner:-
> "Sexual orientation refers to an enduring pattern of emotional, romantic
> and/or sexual attractions to men. women or both sexes. Sexual orientation
> also refers to a person's sense of identity based on those attractions,
> related behaviors, and membership in a community of others who share those
> attractions. Research over several decades has demonstrated that sexual
> orientation ranges along a continuum, from exclusive attraction to the other
> sex to exclusive attraction to the same sex.‖61
143\. From the aforesaid, it has to be appreciated that homosexuality is
something that is based on sense of identity. It is the reflection of a
61American Psychological Association, "Answers to Your Questions for a Better
Understanding of Sexual Orientation & Homosexuality," 2008  93 sense of
emotion and expression of eagerness to establish intimacy. It is just as much
ingrained, inherent and innate as heterosexuality. Sexual orientation, as a
concept, fundamentally implies a pattern of sexual attraction. It is as
natural a phenomenon as other natural biological phenomena. What the science
of sexuality has led to is that an individual has the tendency to feel
sexually attracted towards the same sex, for the decision is one that is
controlled by neurological and biological factors. That is why it is his/her
natural orientation which is innate and constitutes the core of his/her being
and identity. That apart, on occasions, due to a sense of mutuality of release
of passion, two adults may agree to express themselves in a different sexual
behaviour which may include both the genders. To this, one can attribute a
bisexual orientation which does not follow the rigidity but allows room for
flexibility.
144\. The society cannot remain unmindful to the theory which several
researches, conducted both in the field of biological and psychological
science, have proven and reaffirmed time and again. To compel a person having
a certain sexual orientation to proselytize to another is like asking a body
part to perform a function it was never designed to perform in the first
place. It is pure science, a certain  94 manner in which the brain and
genitals of an individual function and react. Whether one's sexual orientation
is determined by genetic, hormonal, developmental, social and/or cultural
influences (or a combination thereof), most people experience little or no
sense of choice about their sexual orientation.62
145\. The statement of the American Psychological Association on homosexuality
which was released in July 1994 reiterates this position in the following
observations:-
> "The research on homosexuality is very7 clear. Homosexuality is neither
> mental illness nor moral depravity. It is simply the way a minority of our
> population expresses human love and sexuality. Study after study documents
> the mental health of gay men and lesbians. Studies of judgment, stability,
> reliability, and social and vocational adaptiveness all show that gay men
> and lesbians function every bit as well as heterosexuals. Nor is
> homosexuality a matter of individual choice. Research suggests that the
> homosexual orientation is in place very early in the life cycle, possibly
> even before birth. It is found in about ten percent of the population, a
> figure which is surprisingly constant across cultures, irrespective of the
> different moral values and standards of a particular culture. Contrary to
> what some imply, the incidence of homosexuality in a population does not
> appear to change with new moral codes or social mores. Research findings
> suggest that efforts to repair homosexuals are nothing more than social
> prejudice garbed in psychological accouterments."
> (Emphasis is ours) 62 UNHCR GUIDELINES ON INTERNATIONAL PROTECTION NO. 9:
> Claims to Refugee Status based on Sexual Orientation and/or Gender Identity
> within the context of Article 1A(2) of the 1951 Convention and/or its 1967
> Protocol relating to the Status of Refugees  95
146\. In the said context, the observations made by Leonard Sax to the
following effect are relevant and are reproduced below:-
> ―Biologically, the difference between a gay man and a straight man is
> something like the difference between a left-handed person and a right-
> handed person. Being left- handed isn't just a phase. A left-handed person
> won't someday magically turn into a right-handed person.... Some children
> are destined at birth to be left- handed, and some boys are destined at
> birth to grow up to be gay.‖
147\. The Supreme Court of Canada in the case of James Egan and John Norris
Nesbit v. Her Majesty The Queen in Right of Canada and another 63 , while
holding that sexual orientation is one of the grounds for claiming the benefit
under Section 15(1) as it is analogous to the grounds already set out in the
list in Section 15(1) and the said list not being finite and exhaustive can be
extended to LGBTs on account of the historical, social, political and economic
disadvantage suffered by LGBTs, has observed:-
> "Sexual orientation is a deeply personal characteristic that is either
> unchangeable or changeable only at unacceptable personal costs, and so falls
> within the ambit of s. 15 protection as being analogous to the enumerated
> grounds."
148\. It is worth noting that scientific study has, by way of keen analysis,
arrived at the conclusion as regards the individual‘s 63[1995] 2 SCR 513  96
inherent orientation. Apart from orientation, as stated earlier, there can be
situations which influence the emotional behaviour of an individual to seek
intimacy in the same gender that may bring two persons together in a
biological pattern. It has to be treated as consensual activity and reflective
of consensual choice. L. Privacy and its concomitant aspects
149\. While testing the constitutional validity of Section 377 IPC, due regard
must be given to the elevated right to privacy as has been recently proclaimed
in Puttaswamy (supra). We shall not delve in detail upon the concept of the
right to privacy as the same has been delineated at length in Puttaswamy
(supra). In the case at hand, our focus is limited to dealing with the right
to privacy vis-à-vis Section 377 IPC and other facets such as right to choice
as part of the freedom of expression and sexual orientation. That apart,
within the compartment of privacy, individual autonomy has a significant
space. Autonomy is individualistic. It is expressive of self-determination and
such self-determination includes sexual orientation and declaration of sexual
identity. Such an orientation or choice that reflects an individual‘s autonomy
is innate to him/her. It is an inalienable part of  97 his/her identity. The
said identity under the constitutional scheme does not accept any interference
as long as its expression is not against decency or morality. And the morality
that is conceived of under the Constitution is constitutional morality. Under
the autonomy principle, the individual has sovereignty over his/her body.
He/she can surrender his/her autonomy wilfully to another individual and their
intimacy in privacy is a matter of their choice. Such concept of identity is
not only sacred but is also in recognition of the quintessential facet of
humanity in a person‘s nature. The autonomy establishes identity and the said
identity, in the ultimate eventuate, becomes a part of dignity in an
individual. This dignity is special to the man/woman who has a right to enjoy
his/her life as per the constitutional norms and should not be allowed to
wither and perish like a mushroom. It is a directional shift from conceptual
macrocosm to cognizable microcosm. When such culture grows, there is an
affirmative move towards a more inclusive and egalitarian society. Non-
acceptance of the same would tantamount to denial of human rights to people
and one cannot be oblivious of the saying of Nelson Mandela ― ―to deny people
their human rights is to challenge their very humanity.‖  98
150\. Article 12 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, (1948) makes a
reference to privacy by stating:-
> "No one shall be subjected to arbitrary interference with his privacy,
> family, home or correspondence nor to attacks upon his honour and
> reputation. Everyone has the right to the protection of the law against such
> interference or attacks."
151\. Similarly, Article 17 of the International Covenant of Civil and
Political Rights, to which India is a party, talks about privacy thus:-
> "No one shall be subjected to arbitrary or unlawful interference with his
> privacy, family, home and correspondence, nor to unlawful attacks on his
> honour and reputation."
152\. The European Convention on Human Rights also seeks to protect the right
to privacy by stating:-
> "1. Everyone has the right to respect for his private and family life, his
> home and his correspondence.
> 2\. There shall be no interference by a public authority except such as is
> in accordance with law and is necessary in a democratic society in the
> interests of national security, public safety or the economic well being of
> the country, for the protection of health or morals or for the protection of
> the rights and freedoms of others."
153\. In the case of Dudgeon v. United Kingdom 64 , privacy has been defined
as under:-
64
> [1981] 4 EHRR 149  99 "Perhaps the best and most succinct legal definition
> of privacy is that given by Warren and Brandeis - it is "the right to be let
> alone"."
154\. In R. Rajagopal v. State of Tamil Nadu and others65, while discussing
the concept of right to privacy, it has been observed that the right to
privacy is implicit in the right to life and liberty guaranteed to the
citizens of this country by Article 21 and it is a "right to be let alone",
for a citizen has a right to safeguard the privacy of his/her own, his/her
family, marriage, procreation, motherhood, child-bearing and education, among
other matters.
155\. The above authorities capture the essence of the right to privacy. There
can be no doubt that an individual also has a right to a union under Article
21 of the Constitution. When we say union, we do not mean the union of
marriage, though marriage is a union. As a concept, union also means
companionship in every sense of the word, be it physical, mental, sexual or
emotional. The LGBT community is seeking realisation of its basic right to
companionship, so long as such a companionship is consensual, free from the
vice of deceit, force, coercion and does not result in violation of the
fundamental rights of others.
65
(1994) 6 SCC 632  100
156\. Justice Blackmun, in his vigorous dissent, in the case of Bowers,
Attorney General of Georgia v. Hardwick et al. 66 , regarding the ―right to be
let alone‖, referred to Paris Adult Theatre I v. Slaton67 wherein he observed
that only the most willful blindness could obscure the fact that sexual
intimacy is a sensitive, key relationship of human existence, central to
family life, community welfare and the development of human personality.
Justice Blackmun went on to observe:-
> ―The fact that individuals define themselves in a significant way through
> their intimate sexual relationships with others suggests, in a Nation as
> diverse as ours, that there may be many "right" ways of conducting those
> relationships, and that much of the richness of a relationship will come
> from the freedom an individual has to choose the form and nature of these
> intensely personal bonds. … In a variety of circumstances, we have
> recognized that a necessary corollary of giving individuals freedom to
> choose how to conduct their lives is acceptance of the fact that different
> individuals will make different choices.‖
157\. In A.R. Coeriel and M.A.R. Aurik v. The Netherlands68, the Human Rights
Committee observed that the notion of privacy refers to the sphere of a
person's life in which he or she can freely express his or her identity, be it
by entering into relationships with others or 66 Bowers v. Hardwick, 478 U.S.
186 (1986) 67 413 U.S. 49 (1973) 68 Communication No. 453/1991, para. 10.2
101 alone. The Committee was of the view that a person's surname constitutes
an important component of one's identity and that the protection against
arbitrary or unlawful interference with one's privacy includes the protection
against arbitrary or unlawful interference with the right to choose and change
one's own name.
158\. We may also usefully refer to the views of the Human Rights Committee in
Toonen v. Australia69 to the effect that the introduction of the concept of
arbitrariness is intended to guarantee that every interference provided for by
the law should be in accordance with the provisions, aims and objectives of
the Covenant and should be, in any event, reasonable in the circumstances. The
requirement of reasonableness implies that any interference with privacy must
be proportional to the end sought and be necessary in the circumstances of any
given case.
159\. The South African Constitutional Court in National Coalition for Gay and
Lesbian Equality and another v. Minister of Justice and others 70 has arrived
at a theory of privacy in sexuality that includes both decisional and
relational elements. It lays down that privacy recognises that we all have a
right to a sphere of private 69 Communication No. 488/1992, U.C. Doc CCPR/C/
50/D 488/ 1992, March 31, 1994, para. 8.3 70 1998 (12) BCLR 1517 (CC)  102
intimacy and autonomy which allows us to establish and nurture human
relationships without interference from the outside community. The way in
which we give expression to our sexuality is at the core of this area of
private intimacy. If, in expressing our sexuality, we act consensually and
without harming one another, invasion of that precinct will be a breach of our
privacy. The Court admitted that the society had a poor record of seeking to
regulate the sexual expression of South Africans. It observed that in some
cases, as in this one, the reason for the regulation was discriminatory; the
law, for example, outlawed sexual relationships among people of different
races. The fact that a law prohibiting forms of sexual conduct is
discriminatory does not, however, prevent it at the same time from being an
improper invasion of the intimate sphere of human life to which protection is
given by the Constitution in Section 14. The Court emphasized that the
importance of a right to privacy in the new constitutional order should not be
denied even while acknowledging the importance of equality. In fact,
emphasising the breach of both these rights in the present case highlights
just how egregious the invasion of the constitutional rights of gay persons
has been. The offence which lies at the heart of the discrimination in this
case  103 constitutes, at the same time and independently, a breach of the
rights of privacy and dignity which, without doubt, strengthens the conclusion
that the discrimination is unfair.
160\. At home, the view as to the right to privacy underwent a sea- change
when a nine-Judge Bench of this Court in Puttaswamy (supra) elevated the right
to privacy to the stature of fundamental right under Article 21 of the
Constitution. One of us, Chandrachud, J., speaking for the majority, regarded
the judgment in Suresh Koushal as a discordant note and opined that the
reasons stated therein cannot be regarded as a valid constitutional basis for
disregarding a claim based on privacy under Article 21 of the Constitution.
Further, he observed that the reasoning in Suresh Koushal‘s decision to the
effect that ―a minuscule fraction of the country's population constitutes
lesbians, gays, bisexuals or transgenders" is not a sustainable basis to deny
the right to privacy.
161\. It was further observed that the purpose of elevating certain rights to
the stature of guaranteed fundamental rights is to insulate their exercise
from the disdain of majorities, whether legislative or popular, and the
guarantee of constitutional rights does not depend upon their exercise being
favourably regarded by majoritarian opinion.  104
162\. The test of popular acceptance, in view of the majority opinion, was not
at all a valid basis to disregard rights which have been conferred with the
sanctity of constitutional protection. The Court noted that the discrete and
insular minorities face grave dangers of discrimination for the simple reason
that their views, beliefs or way of life does not accord with the
'mainstream', but in a democratic Constitution founded on the Rule of Law, it
does not mean that their rights are any less sacred than those conferred on
other citizens.
163\. As far as the aspect of sexual orientation is concerned, the Court
opined that it is an essential attribute of privacy and discrimination against
an individual on the basis of sexual orientation is deeply offensive to the
dignity and self-worth of the individual. The Court was of the view that
equality demands that the sexual orientation of each individual in the society
must be protected on an even platform, for the right to privacy and the
protection of sexual orientation lie at the core of the fundamental rights
guaranteed by Articles 14, 15 and 21 of the Constitution.
164\. Regarding the view in Suresh Koushal‘s case to the effect that the Delhi
High Court in Naz Foundation case had erroneously relied upon international
precedents in its anxiety to protect the so-called  105 rights of LGBT
persons, the nine-Judge Bench was of the opinion that the aforesaid view in
Suresh Koushal (supra) was unsustainable. The rights of the lesbian, gay,
bisexual and transgender population, as per the decision in Puttaswamy
(supra), cannot be construed to be "so-called rights" as the expression "so-
called" seems to suggest the exercise of liberty in the garb of a right which
is illusory.
165\. The Court regarded such a construction in Suresh Koushal‘s case as
inappropriate of the privacy based claims of the LGBT population, for their
rights are not at all "so-called" but are real rights founded on sound
constitutional doctrine. The Court went on to observe that the rights of the
LGBT community inhere in the right to life, dwell in privacy and dignity and
they constitute the essence of liberty and freedom. Further, the Court
observed that sexual orientation being an essential component of identity,
equal protection demands equal protection of the identity of every individual
without discrimination.
166\. Speaking in the same tone and tenor, Kaul, J., while concurring with the
view of Chandrachud, J., observed that the right to privacy cannot be denied
even if there is a minuscule fraction of the population which is affected. He
was of the view that the majoritarian  106 concept does not apply to
constitutional rights and the Courts are often called upon to take what may be
categorized as a non- majoritarian view.
167\. Kaul, J. went on to opine that one‘s sexual orientation is undoubtedly
an attribute of privacy and in support of this view, he referred to the
observations made in Mosley (supra) which read thus:-
> "130... It is not simply a matter of personal privacy v. the public
> interest. The modern perception is that there is a public interest in
> respecting personal privacy. It is thus a question of taking account of
> conflicting public interest considerations and evaluating them according to
> increasingly well recognized criteria.
> 131\. When the courts identify an infringement of a person‘s Article 8
> rights, and in particular in the context of his freedom to conduct his sex
> life and personal relationships as he wishes, it is right to afford a remedy
> and to vindicate that right. The only permitted exception is where there is
> a countervailing public interest which in the particular circumstances is
> strong enough to outweigh it; that is to say. because one at least of the
> established "limiting principles" comes into play. Was it necessary and
> proportionate for the intrusion to take place, for example, in order to
> expose illegal activity or to prevent the public from being significantly
> misled by public claims hitherto made by the individual concerned (as with
> Naomi Campbell's public denials of drug- taking)? Or was it necessary
> because the information, in the words of the Strasbourg court in Von
> Hannover at (60) and (76). would make a contribution to "a debate of general
> interest"? That is, of course, a very high test, it is yet to  107 be
> determined how far that doctrine will be taken in the courts of this
> jurisdiction in relation to photography in public places. If taken
> literally, it would mean a very significant change in what is permitted. It
> would have a profound effect on the tabloid and celebrity culture to which
> we have become accustomed in recent years.""
168\. After the nine-Judge bench decision in Puttaswamy (supra), the challenge
to the vires of Section 377 IPC has been stronger than ever. It needs to be
underscored that in the said decision, the nine- Judge Bench has held that
sexual orientation is also a facet of a person's privacy and that the right to
privacy is a fundamental right under the Constitution of India.
169\. The observation made in Suresh Koushal (supra) that gays, lesbians,
bisexuals and transgenders constitute a very minuscule part of the population
is perverse due to the very reason that such an approach would be violative of
the equality principle enshrined under Article 14 of the Constitution. The
mere fact that the percentage of population whose fundamental right to privacy
is being abridged by the existence of Section 377 in its present form is low
does not impose a limitation upon this Court from protecting the fundamental
rights of those who are so affected by the present Section 377 IPC.
170\. The constitutional framers could have never intended that the protection
of fundamental rights was only for the majority population.  108 If such had
been the intention, then all provisions in Part III of the Constitution would
have contained qualifying words such as 'majority persons' or 'majority
citizens'. Instead, the provisions have employed the words 'any person‘ and
‗any citizen' making it manifest that the constitutional courts are under an
obligation to protect the fundamental rights of every single citizen without
waiting for the catastrophic situation when the fundamental rights of the
majority of citizens get violated.
171\. Such a view is well supported on two counts, namely, one that the
constitutional courts have to embody in their approach a telescopic vision
wherein they inculcate the ability to be futuristic and do not procrastinate
till the day when the number of citizens whose fundamental rights are affected
and violated grow in figures. In the case at hand, whatever be the percentage
of gays, lesbians, bisexuals and transgenders, this Court is not concerned
with the number of persons belonging to the LGBT community. What matters is
whether this community is entitled to certain fundamental rights which they
claim and whether such fundamental rights are being violated due to the
presence of a law in the statute book. If the answer to both these questions
is in the affirmative, then the  109 constitutional courts must not display an
iota of doubt and must not hesitate in striking down such provision of law on
the account of it being violative of the fundamental rights of certain
citizens, however minuscule their percentage may be.
172\. A second count on which the view in Suresh Koushal (supra) becomes
highly unsustainable is that the language of both Articles 32 and 226 of the
Constitution is not reflective of such an intention. A cursory reading of both
the Articles divulges that the right to move the Supreme Court and the High
Courts under Articles 32 and 226 respectively is not limited to a situation
when there is violation of the fundamental rights of a large chunk of
populace.
173\. Such a view is also fortified by several landmark judgments of the
Supreme Court such as D.K. Basu v. State of W.B.71 wherein the Court was
concerned with the fundamental rights of only those persons who were put under
arrest and which again formed a minuscule fraction of the total populace.
Another recent case wherein the Supreme Court while discharging its
constitutional duty did not hesitate to protect the fundamental right to die
with dignity is Common Cause (A Regd. Society) (supra) wherein the Supreme 71
(1997) 1 SCC 416  110 Court stepped in to protect the said fundamental right
of those who may have slipped into permanent vegetative state, who again form
a very minuscule part of the society.
174\. Such an approach reflects the idea as also mooted by Martin Luther King
Jr. who said, ―Injustice anywhere is a threat to justice everywhere‖. While
propounding this view, we are absolutely conscious of the concept of
reasonable classification and the fact that even single person legislation
could be valid as held in Chiranjit Lal Chowdhury v. Union of India72, which
regarded the classification to be reasonable from both procedural and
substantive points of view.
175\. We are aware that the legislature is fully competent to enact laws which
are applicable only to a particular class or group. But, for the
classification to be valid, it must be founded on an intelligible differentia
and the differentia must have a rational nexus with the object sought to be
achieved by a particular provision of law.
176\. That apart, since it is alleged that Section 377 IPC in its present form
violates a fundamental right protected by Article 21 of the Constitution, that
is, the right to personal liberty, it has to not only stand the test of
Article 21 but it must also stand the test of Article 19 72 [1950] 1 SCR 869
111 which is to say that the restriction imposed by it has to be reasonable
and also that of Article 14 which is to say that Section 377 must not be
arbitrary.
177\. Whether Section 377 stands the trinity test of Articles 14, 19 and 21 as
propounded in the case of Maneka Gandhi (supra) will be ascertained and
determined at a later stage of this judgment when we get into the
interpretative dissection of Section 377 IPC. M. Doctrine of progressive
realization of rights
178\. When we talk about the rights guaranteed under the Constitution and the
protection of these rights, we observe and comprehend a manifest ascendance
and triumphant march of such rights which, in turn, paves the way for the
doctrine of progressive realization of the rights under the Constitution. This
doctrine invariably reminds us about the living and dynamic nature of a
Constitution. Edmund Burke, delineating upon the progressive and the perpetual
growing nature of a Constitution, had said that a Constitution is ever-growing
and it is perpetually continuous as it embodies the spirit of a nation. It is
enriched at the present by the past experiences and influences and makes the
future richer than the present.
112
179\. In N.M. Thomas (supra), Krishna Iyer, J., in his concurring opinion,
observed thus:-
> "Law, including constitutional law, can no longer go it alone' but must be
> illumined in the interpretative process by sociology and allied fields of
> knowledge. Indeed, the term 'constitutional law' symbolizes an intersection
> of law and politics, wherein issues of political power are acted on by
> persons trained in the legal tradition, working in judicial institutions,
> following the procedures of law, thinking as lawyers think. So much so, a
> wider perspective is needed to resolve issues of constitutional law."
> And again:-
―An overview of the decided cases suggests the need to re-interpret the
dynamic import of the 'equality clauses' and, to stress again, beyond
reasonable doubt, that the paramount law. which is organic and regulates our
nation's growing life, must take in its sweep ethics, economics, politics and
sociology'.‖ The learned Judge, expanding the horizon of his concern,
reproduced the lament of Friedman:-
> "It would be tragic if the law were so petrified as to be unable to respond
> to the unending challenge of evolutionary or revolutionary changes in
> society.'' The main assumptions which Friedman makes are:
> "first, the law is, in Holmes' phrase, not a brooding omnipotence in the
> sky', but a flexible instrument of social order, dependent on the political
> values of the society which it purports to regulate...."
113
> Naturally surges the interrogation, what are the challenges of changing
> values to which the guarantee of equality must respond and how?‖
180\. Further, Krishna Iyer, J. referred to the classic statement made by
Chief Justice Marshall in McCulloch v. Maryland 73 which was also followed by
Justice Brennan in Kazenbach v. Morgan74. The said observation reads thus:-
> "Let the end be legitimate, let it be within the scope of the constitution,
> and all means which are appropriate, which are plainly adapted to that end,
> which are not prohibited, but consist with the letter and spirit of the
> constitution, are constitutional."
181\. In Manoj Narula (supra), the Court recognized the dynamic nature of the
Indian Constitution and observed that it is a living document with
capabilities of enormous dynamism. It is a Constitution made for a progressive
society and the working of such a Constitution depends upon the prevalent
atmosphere and conditions.
182\. In Government of NCT of Delhi (supra), the Court, while contemplating on
what is it that makes a Constitution a dynamic and a living document, observed
that it is the philosophy of 'constitutional culture' which, as a set of norms
and practices, breathes life into the 73 (1816) 17 US 316 74 (1966) 384 US 641
114 words of the great document and it constantly enables the words to keep
stride with the rapid and swift changes occurring in the society and the
responsibility of fostering a constitutional culture rests upon the shoulders
of the State. Thereafter, the Court went on to observe:-
> ―The Constitutional Courts, while interpreting the constitutional
> provisions, have to take into account the constitutional culture, bearing in
> mind its flexible and evolving nature, so that the provisions are given a
> meaning which reflect the object and purpose of the Constitution.‖ And
> again, it proceeded to reproduce the wise words of Justice Brennan:-
> "We current Justices read the Constitution in the only way that we can: as
> Twentieth Century Americans. We look to the history of the time of framing
> and to the intervening history of interpretation. But the ultimate question
> must be, what do the words of the text mean in our time? For the genius of
> the Constitution rests not in any static meaning it might have had in a
> world that is dead and gone, but in the adaptability of its great principles
> to cope with current problems and current needs. What the constitutional
> fundamentals meant to the wisdom of other times cannot be their measure to
> the vision of our time. Similarly, what those fundamentals mean for us, our
> descendants will learn, cannot be the measure to the vision of their time."
> 183\. We have discussed, in brief, the dynamic and progressive nature of the
> Constitution to accentuate that rights under the Constitution are also
> dynamic and progressive, for they evolve with  115 the evolution of a
> society and with the passage of time. The rationale behind the doctrine of
> progressive realization of rights is the dynamic and ever growing nature of
> the Constitution under which the rights have been conferred to the
> citizenry.
184\. The constitutional courts have to recognize that the constitutional
rights would become a dead letter without their dynamic, vibrant and pragmatic
interpretation. Therefore, it is necessary for the constitutional courts to
inculcate in their judicial interpretation and decision making a sense of
engagement and a sense of constitutional morality so that they, with the aid
of judicial creativity, are able to fulfill their foremost constitutional
obligation, that is, to protect the rights bestowed upon the citizens of our
country by the Constitution.
185\. Here, it is also apposite to refer to the words of Lord Roskill in his
presidential address to the Bentham Club at University College of London on
February 29, 1984 on the subject 'Law Lords, Reactionaries or Reformers'75
which read as follows:-
> "Legal policy now stands enthroned and will I hope remain one of the
> foremost considerations governing the development by the House of Lords of
> the common law. What direction should this development now take? I can think
> of several occasions upon which we have all said to ourselves:-
75
> Lord Roskill, “Law Lords, Reactionaries or Reformers”, Current Legal
> Problems (1984)  116 "this case requires a policy decision what is the right
> policy decision?" The answer is, and I hope will hereafter be, to follow
> that route which is most consonant with the current needs of the society,
> and which will be seen to be sensible and will pragmatically thereafter be
> easy to apply. No doubt the Law Lords will continue to be the targets for
> those academic lawyers who will seek intellectual perfection rather than
> imperfect pragmatism. But much of the common law and virtually all criminal
> law, distasteful as it may be to some to have to acknowledge it. is a blunt
> instrument by means of which human beings, whether they like it or not, are
> governed and subject to which they are required to live, and blunt
> instruments are rarely perfect intellectually or otherwise. By definition
> they operate bluntly and not sharply."
> [Emphasis supplied]
> 186\. What the words of Lord Roskill suggest is that it is not only the
> interpretation of the Constitution which needs to be pragmatic, due to the
> dynamic nature of a Constitution, but also the legal policy of a particular
> epoch must be in consonance with the current and the present needs of the
> society, which are sensible in the prevalent times and at the same time easy
> to apply.
187\. This also gives birth to an equally important role of the State to
implement the constitutional rights effectively. And of course, when we say
State, it includes all the three organs, that is, the legislature,  117 the
executive as well as the judiciary. The State has to show concerned commitment
which would result in concrete action. The State has an obligation to take
appropriate measures for the progressive realization of economic, social and
cultural rights.
188\. The doctrine of progressive realization of rights, as a natural
corollary, gives birth to the doctrine of non-retrogression. As per this
doctrine, there must not be any regression of rights. In a progressive and an
ever-improving society, there is no place for retreat. The society has to
march ahead.
189\. The doctrine of non-retrogression sets forth that the State should not
take measures or steps that deliberately lead to retrogression on the
enjoyment of rights either under the Constitution or otherwise.
190\. The aforesaid two doctrines lead us to the irresistible conclusion that
if we were to accept the law enunciated in Suresh Koushal's case, it would
definitely tantamount to a retrograde step in the direction of the progressive
interpretation of the Constitution and denial of progressive realization of
rights. It is because Suresh Koushal’s view gets wrongly embedded with the
minuscule facet and assumes criminality on the bedrock being guided by a sense
of social  118 morality. It discusses about health which is no more a phobia
and is further moved by the popular morality while totally ignoring the
concepts of privacy, individual choice and the orientation. Orientation, in
certain senses, does get the neuro-impulse to express while seeing the other
gender. That apart, swayed by data, Suresh Koushal fails to appreciate that
the sustenance of fundamental rights does not require majoritarian sanction.
Thus, the ruling becomes sensitively susceptible.
    N.        International perspective
    (i)       United States
191\. The Supreme Court of the United States in Obergefell, et al. v. Hodges,
Director, Ohio Department of Health, et al.76, highlighting the plight of
homosexuals, observed that until the mid-20th century, same-sex intimacy had
long been condemned as immoral by the State itself in most Western nations and
a belief was often embodied in the criminal law and for this reason,
homosexuals, among others, were not deemed to have dignity in their own
distinct identity. The Court further noted that truthful declaration by same-
sex couples of what was in their hearts had to remain unspoken and even when a
76576 US (2015)  119 greater awareness of the humanity and integrity of
homosexual persons came in the period after World War II, the argument that
gays and lesbians had a just claim to dignity was in conflict with both law
and widespread social conventions. The Court also observed that same-sex
intimacy remained a crime in many States and that gays and lesbians were
prohibited from most government employment, barred from military service,
excluded under immigration laws, targeted by the police and burdened in their
rights to associate.
192\. The Court further observed that what the statutes in question seek to
control is a personal relationship, whether or not entitled to formal
recognition in the law, that is within the liberty of persons to choose
without being punished as criminals. Further, the Court acknowledged that
adults may choose to enter upon a relationship in the confines of their homes
and their own private lives and still retain their dignity as free persons and
that when sexuality finds overt expression in intimate conduct with another
person, the conduct can be but one element in a personal bond that is more
enduring. The Court held that such liberty protected by the Constitution
allows homosexual persons the right to make this choice.  120
193\. In the case of Price Waterhouse v. Hopkins77, the Supreme Court of the
United States, while evaluating the legal relevance of sex stereotyping,
observed thus:-
> "...we are beyond the day when an employer could evaluate employees by
> assuming or insisting that they matched the stereotype associated with their
> group, for, "'[i]n forbidding employers to discriminate against individuals
> because of their sex, Congress intended to strike at the entire spectrum of
> disparate treatment of men and women resulting from sex stereotypes.""
194\. In the case of Kimberly Hively v. Ivy Tech Community College of Indiana
78 , while holding that discrimination amongst employees based on their sexual
orientation amounts to discrimination based on sex, the Court observed as
under:-
> "We would be remiss not to consider the EEOC's recent decision in which it
> concluded that "sexual orientation is inherently a 'sex-based
> consideration,' and an allegation of discrimination based on sexual
> orientation is necessarily an allegation of sex discrimination under Title
> VII." Baldwin v. Foxx, EEOC Appeal No. 0120133080, 2015 WL 4397641, at *5,
> *10 (July 16, 2015). The EEOC, the body charged with enforcing Title VII,
> came to this conclusion for three primary reasons. First, it concluded that
> "sexual orientation discrimination is sex discrimination because it
> necessarily entails treating an employee less favorably because of the
> employee's sex."
Id. at *5 (proffering the example of a woman who is suspended for placing a
photo of her female spouse on her desk, and a man who faces no consequences
for the 77490U.S. 228 (1989) 78 830 F.3d 698 (7th Cir. 2016)  121 same act).
Second, it explained that "sexual orientation discrimination is also sex
discrimination because it is associational discrimination on the basis of
sex," in which an employer discriminates against lesbian, gay, or bisexual
employees based on who they date or marry. Id. at *6-7. Finally, the EEOC
described sexual orientation discrimination as a form of discrimination based
on gender stereotypes in which employees are harassed or punished for failing
to live up to societal norms about appropriate masculine and feminine
behaviors, mannerisms, and appearances. Id. In coming to these conclusions,
the EEOC noted critically that "courts have attempted to distinguish
discrimination based on sexual orientation from discrimination based on sex,
even while noting that the "borders [between the two classes] are imprecise."
Id. at *8 (quoting Simonton, 232 F.3d at 35).
[Underlining is ours]
195\. In the case of Lawrence v. Texas79, while dealing with the issue of
decriminalization of sexual conduct between homosexuals, the U.S. Supreme
Court observed that the said issue neither involved minors nor persons who
might be injured or coerced or who are situated in relationships where consent
might not easily be refused nor did it involve public conduct or prostitution
nor the question whether the government must give formal recognition to any
relationship that homosexual persons seek to enter. The Court further observed
that the issue related to two adults who, with full and mutual consent of each
other, engaged in sexual practices common to a 79 539 U.S. 558 (2003)  122
homosexual lifestyle. The Court declared that the petitioners were entitled to
respect for their private lives and that the State could not demean their
existence or control their destiny by making their private sexual conduct a
crime, for their right to liberty under the Due Process Clause gives them the
full right to engage in their conduct without the intervention of the State.
196\. In Roberts v. United States Jaycees80, the Supreme Court of the United
States observed:-
> "Our decisions have referred to constitutionally protected "freedom of
> association" in two distinct senses. In one line of decisions, the Court has
> concluded that choices to enter into and maintain certain intimate human
> relationships must be secured against undue intrusion by the State because
> of the role of such relationships in safeguarding the individual freedom
> that is central to our constitutional scheme. In this respect, freedom of
> association receives protection as a fundamental element of personal
> liberty. In another set of decisions, the Court has recognized a right to
> associate for the purpose of engaging in those activities protected by the
> First Amendment ~ speech, assembly, petition for the redress of grievances,
> and the exercise of religion. The Constitution guarantees freedom of
> association of this kind as an indispensable means of preserving other
> individual liberties. The intrinsic and instrumental features of
> constitutionally protected association may, of course, coincide."
> [Emphasis added] 80468 U.S. 609 (1984)  123
> (ii) Canada
197\. The Supreme Court of Canada, in Delwin Vriend and others v. Her Majesty
the Queen in Right of Alberta and others81, while interpreting a breach of
Section 15(1) of the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms, arrived at the
conclusion that 'sex' includes sexual orientation. Section 15(1) of the
Charter reads thus:-
> "Every individual is equal before and under the law and has the right to the
> equal protection and equal benefit of the law without discrimination and, in
> particular, without discrimination based on race, national or ethnic origin,
> colour, religion, sex, age or physical disability."
198\. In Delwin Vriend, the Supreme Court of Canada, relying on the reasoning
adopted by it in Egan v. Canada (supra), applied its well- known test of
grounds analogous to those specified textually. The Egan test is:-
> "In Egan, it was said that there are two aspects which are relevant in
> determining whether the distinction created by the law constitutes
> discrimination. First, "whether the equality right was denied on the basis
> of a personal characteristic which is either enumerated in  s. 15(1) or
> which is analogous to those enumerated". Second "whether that distinction
> has the effect on the claimant of imposing a burden, obligation or
> disadvantage not imposed upon others or of withholding or limiting access to
> benefits or advantages which are available to others" (para. 131).
81
[1998] 1 SCR 493  124 A discriminatory distinction was also described as one
which is "capable of either promoting or perpetuating the view that the
individual adversely affected by this distinction is less capable, or less
worthy of recognition or value as a human being or as a member of Canadian
society, equally deserving of concern, respect, and consideration" (Egan, at
para. 56, per L'Heureux - Dube J.). It may as well be appropriate to consider
whether the unequal treatment is based on "the stereotypical application of
presumed group or personal characteristics" (Miron, at para. 128, per
McLachlin J.) In Egan, it was held, on the basis of "historical social,
political and economic disadvantage suffered by homosexuals" and the emerging
consensus among legislatures (at para. 176), as well as previous judicial
decisions (at para. 177), that sexual orientation is a ground analogous to
those listed in s. 15(1). Sexual orientation is "a deeply personal
characteristic that is either unchangeable or changeable only at unacceptable
personal costs" (para. 5). It is analogous to the other personal
characteristics enumerated in s. 15(1); and therefore this step of the test is
satisfied."
199\. Thereafter, the Court in Delwin Vriend (supra) observed that perhaps the
most important outcome is the psychological harm which may ensue from the
state of affairs as the fear of discrimination (by LGBT) would logically lead
them to concealment of true identity and this is harmful to their personal
confidence and self-esteem. The Court held that this is a clear example of a
distinction which demeans the individual and strengthens and perpetrates the
view that gays and  125 lesbians are less worthy of protection as individuals
in Canada‘s society and the potential harm to the dignity and perceived worth
of gay and lesbian individuals constitutes a particularly cruel form of
discrimination.
(iii) South Africa
200\. The Constitutional Court of South Africa in National Coalition for Gay &
Lesbian Equality (supra) made the following relevant observations:-
> "Its symbolic effect is to state that in the eyes of our legal system all
> gay men are criminals. The stigma thus attached to a significant proportion
> of our population is manifest. But the harm imposed by the criminal law is
> far more than symbolic. As a result of the criminal offence, gay men are at
> risk of arrest, prosecution and conviction of the offence of sodomy simply
> because they seek to engage in sexual conduct which is part of their
> experience of being human. Just as apartheid legislation rendered the lives
> of couples of different racial groups perpetually at risk, the sodomy
> offence builds insecurity and vulnerability into the daily lives of gay men.
> There can be no doubt that the existence of a law which punishes a form of
> sexual expression for gay men degrades and devalues gay men in our broader
> society. As such it is a palpable invasion of their dignity and a breach of
> section 10 of the Constitution."
126
(iv) United Kingdom
201\. In Euan Sutherland v. United Kingdom82, the issue before the European
Commission of Human Rights was whether the difference in age limit for consent
for sexual activities for homosexuals and heterosexuals, the age limit being
16 years in the case of heterosexuals and 18 years in the case of homosexuals,
is justified. While considering the same, the Commission observed that no
objective and reasonable justification exists for the maintenance of a higher
minimum age of consent in case of male homosexuals as compared to
heterosexuals and that the application discloses discriminatory treatment in
the exercise of the applicant's right to respect for private life under
Article 8 of the Convention. The Commission further observed that sexual
orientation was usually established before the age of puberty in both boys and
girls and referred to evidence that reducing the age of consent would unlikely
affect the majority of men engaging in homosexual activity, either in general
or within specific age groups. The Council of the British Medical Association
(BMA) concluded in its Report that the age of consent 82 2001 ECHR 234  127
for homosexual men should be set at 16 since the then existing law might
inhibit efforts to improve the sexual health of young homosexual and bisexual
men. An equal age of consent was also supported by the Royal College of
Psychiatrists, the Health Education Authority and the National Association of
Probation Officers as well as by other bodies and organizations concerned with
health and social welfare. It is further noted that equality of treatment in
respect of the age of consent is now recognized by the great majority of
Member States of the Council of Europe.
(v) Other Courts/Jurisdictions
202\. In Ang Ladlad LGBT Party v. Commission of Elections83, the Supreme Court
of the Republic of the Philippines observed:-
> "Freedom of expression constitutes one of the essential foundations of a
> democratic society, and this freedom applies not only to those that are
> favorably received but also to those that offend, shock, or disturb. Any
> restriction imposed in this sphere must be proportionate to the legitimate
> aim pursued. Absent any compelling state interest, it is not for the COMELEC
> or this Court to impose its views on the populace.‖ Elaborating further, the
> Court held:-
―It follows that both expressions concerning one's homosexuality and the
activity of forming a political 83 G. R. No.190582, Supreme Court of
Philippines (2010)  128 association that supports LGBT individuals are
protected as well.‖ The Court navigated through European and United Nations
Judicial decisions and held:-
> ―In the area of freedom of expression, for instance, United States courts
> have ruled that existing free speech doctrines protect gay and lesbian
> rights to expressive conduct. In order to justify the prohibition of a
> particular expression of opinion, public institutions must show that their
> actions were caused by "something more than a mere desire to avoid the
> discomfort and unpleasantness that always accompany an unpopular viewpoint."
203\. Further, in Toonen‘s case, the Human Rights Committee made the following
relevant observations:-
> "I concur with this view, as the common denominator for the grounds "race,
> colour and sex" are biological or genetic factors. This being so, the
> criminalization of certain behaviour operating under Sections 122(a), (c)
> and 123 of the Tasmanian Criminal Code must be considered incompatible with
> article 26 of the Covenant.
> Firstly, these provisions of the Tasmanian Criminal Code prohibit sexual
> intercourse between men and between women, thereby making a distinction
> between heterosexuals and homosexuals. Secondly, they criminalize other
> sexual contacts between consenting men without at the same time
> criminalizing such contacts between women. These provisions therefore set
> aside the principle of equality before the law. It should be emphasized that
> it is the criminalization as such that constitutes discrimination of which
> individuals may claim to be victims, and thus  129 violates article 26,
> notwithstanding the fact that the law has not been enforced over a
> considerable period of time: the designated behaviour none the less remains
> a criminal offence."
204\. In Dudgeon (supra), the European Court of Human Rights made the
following observations with respect to homosexuality:-
> "It cannot be maintained in these circumstances that there is a "pressing
> social need" to make such acts criminal offences, there being no sufficient
> justification provided by the risk of harm to vulnerable sections of society
> requiring protection or by the effects on the public. On the issue of
> proportionality, the Court considers that such justifications as there are
> for retaining the law in force unamended are outweighed by the detrimental
> effects which the very existence of the legislative provisions in question
> can have on the life of a person of homosexual orientation like the
> applicant. Although members of the public who regard homosexuality as
> immoral may be shocked, offended or disturbed by the commission by others of
> private homosexual acts, this cannot on its own warrant the application of
> penal sanctions when it is consenting adults alone who are involved."
> [Emphasis supplied] O. Comparative analysis of Section 375 and Section 377
> IPC
205\. Let us, in the obtaining situation, conduct a comparative analysis of
the offence of rape and unnatural offences as defined under Section 375 and
Section 377 of the IPC respectively. Section 375 IPC defines the offence of
rape and reads as under:-  130 Section 375. Rape-A man is said to commit
"rape" if he —
(a) penetrates his penis, to any extent, into the vagina, mouth, urethra or
anus of a woman or makes her to do so with him or any other person; or
(b) inserts, to any extent, any object or a part of the body, not being the
penis, into the vagina, the urethra or anus of a woman or makes her to do so
with him or any other person; or
(c) manipulates any part of the body of a woman so as to cause penetration
into the vagina, urethra, anus or any part of body of such woman or makes her
to do so with him or any other person; or
(d) applies his mouth to the vagina, anus, urethra of a woman or makes her to
do so with him or any other person, under the circumstances falling under any
of the following seven descriptions: — First. —Against her will.
Secondly. —Without her consent.
Thirdly. —With her consent, when her consent has been obtained by putting her
or any person in whom she is interested, in fear of death or of hurt.
Fourthly. —With her consent, when the man knows that he is not her husband and
that her consent is given because she believes that he is another man to whom
she is or believes herself to be lawfully married. Fifthly. —With her consent
when, at the time of giving such consent, by reason of unsoundness of mind or
intoxication or the administration by him personally or through another of any
stupefying or unwholesome  131 substance, she is unable to understand the
nature and consequences of that to which she gives consent. Sixthly. —With or
without her consent, when she is under eighteen years of age.
Seventhly. —When she is unable to communicate consent.
Explanation I.—For the purposes of this section, "vagina" shall also include
labia majora.
Explanation 2. — Consent means an unequivocal voluntary agreement when the
woman by words, gestures or any form of verbal or non-verbal communication,
communicates willingness to participate in the specific sexual act:
Provided that a woman who does not physically resist to the act of penetration
shall not by the reason only of that fact, be regarded as consenting to the
sexual activity.
Exception I.—A medical procedure or intervention shall not constitute rape.
Exception 2. —Sexual intercourse or sexual acts by a man with his own wife,
the wife not being under fifteen years of age, is not rape.'.
206\. A cursory reading of Section 375 IPC divulges that it is a gender
specific provision for the protection of women as only a man can commit the
offence of rape. The Section has been divided into two parts. The former part,
comprising of Clauses (a) to (d), simply  132 describes what acts committed by
a man with a woman would amount to rape provided that the said acts are
committed in the circumstances falling under any of the seven descriptions as
stipulated by the latter part of the Section.
207\. It is in this way that the latter part of Section 375 IPC becomes
important as it lays down the circumstances, either of which must be present,
for an act committed by a man with a woman to come within the sweep of the
offence of rape. To put it differently, for completing the offence of rape,
any of the circumstances described in the latter part of Section 375 must be
present. Let us now dissect each of the seven descriptions appended to Section
375 IPC which specify the absence of a willful and informed consent for
constituting the offence of rape.
208\. The first description provides that any of the acts described in the
former part of Section 375 IPC would amount to rape if such acts are committed
against the will of the woman. The second description stipulates that the acts
described in the former part would amount to rape if such acts are committed
without the consent of the woman. As per the third description, the acts would
amount to rape even if the woman has given her consent but the said consent
has been  133 obtained by putting her or any person in whom she is interested,
in fear of death or of hurt. As per the fourth description, the acts would
amount to rape when the woman has given her consent but the same was given by
her under the belief that she is or believes herself to be lawfully married to
the man committing the acts stated in the former part of the Section. The
fifth description provides that the acts described in the former part would
amount to rape if the woman gives her consent but at the time of giving such
consent, she is unable to understand the nature and consequences of the acts
to which she consents due to the reason of unsoundness of mind or intoxication
or the administration of any stupefying or unwholesome substance either by the
man who commits the acts or through another third person. The sixth
description is plain and simple as it stipulates that the acts described in
the former part of the Section would amount to rape, irrespective of the fact
whether the woman has given her consent or not, if, at the time when the acts
were committed, the woman was below the age of eighteen years. Coming to the
seventh and the last description, it provides that the acts prescribed in the
former part would amount to rape if the woman is unable to communicate her
consent.
134
209\. Explanation 2 to Section 375 IPC gives the definition of consent for the
purpose of Section 375 to the effect that consent means an unequivocal
voluntary agreement by the woman through words, gestures or any form of verbal
or non-verbal communication whereby she communicates her willingness to
participate in any of the sexual acts described in the former part of Section
375 IPC.
210\. We have scrutinized the anatomy of the seven descriptions contained in
the latter part of Section 375 IPC along with Explanation 2 to Section 375 IPC
to emphasize and accentuate that the element of absence of consent is firmly
ingrained in all the descriptions contained in the latter part of Section 375
IPC and the absence of a willful and informed consent is sine qua non to
designate the acts contained in the former part of Section 375 IPC as rape.
211\. Presently, we proceed to scan the anatomy of Section 377 of IPC and
x-ray the provision to study its real nature and content. It reads thus:-
> ―Section 377. Unnatural offences.—Whoever voluntarily has carnal intercourse
> against the order of nature with any man, woman or animal, shall be punished
> with imprisonment for life, or with imprisonment of either description for a
> term which may extend to ten years, and shall also be liable to fine.
135
> Explanation.—Penetration is sufficient to constitute the carnal intercourse
> necessary to the offence described in this section.‖
212\. Section 377 IPC, unlike Section 375, is a gender-neutral provision as it
uses the word ‗whoever‘. The word ‗carnal‘, as per the Black‘s Law Dictionary
84 , means of the body, relating to the body, fleshy or sexual. ‗Sexual
intercourse‘ has been defined in Black‘s Law Dictionary as a contact between a
male and a female‘s organ.
213\. Another expression which has been employed in Section 377 is ‗against
the order of nature‘. The phrase ‗against the order of nature‘ has neither
been defined in Section 377 IPC nor in any other provision of the IPC. The
foundation on which Section 377 IPC makes carnal intercourse an offence is the
precept that such carnal intercourse is against the order of nature. This
brings us to the important question as to what is ‗against the order of
nature‘?
214\. In Khanu (supra), where the question before the Court was whether coitus
per os (mouth contact with the male genitals) amounts to carnal intercourse
against the order of nature, the Court ruled in the affirmative observing that
the natural object of intercourse is that there should be the possibility of
conception of human beings which 84 nd Black’s Law Dictionary, 2 edn.
136
in the case of coitus per os is impossible. Thus, the most common argument
against homosexuality and criminalization of carnal intercourse even between
consenting adults of opposite sex is that traditionally, the essential purpose
of sex is to procreate.
215\. With the passage of time and evolution of the society, procreation is
not the only reason for which people choose to come together, have live-in
relationships, perform coitus or even marry. They do so for a whole lot of
reasons including emotional companionship. Homer Clark writes:-
> ―But the fact is that the most significant function of marriage today seems
> to be that it furnishes emotional satisfactions to be found in no other
> relationships. For many people it is the refuge from the coldness and
> impersonality of contemporary existence.‖
216\. In the contemporary world where even marriage is now not equated to
procreation of children, the question that would arise is whether
homosexuality and carnal intercourse between consenting adults of opposite sex
can be tagged as ‗against the order of nature‘. It is the freedom of choice of
two consenting adults to perform sex for procreation or otherwise and if their
choice is that of the latter, it cannot be said to be against the order of
nature. Therefore, sex, if performed differently, as per the choice of the
consenting adults,  137 does not per se make it against the order of nature.
217\. Section 377 criminalises even voluntary carnal intercourse not only
between homosexuals but also between heterosexuals. The major difference
between the language of Section 377 and Section 375 is that of the element of
absence consent which has been elaborately incorporated in the seven
descriptions contained in the latter part of Section 375 IPC. It is the
absence of willful and informed consent embodied in the seven descriptions to
Section 375 which makes the offence of rape criminal.
218\. On the other hand, Section 377 IPC contains no such
descriptions/exceptions embodying the absence of willful and informed consent
and criminalises even voluntary carnal intercourse both between homosexuals as
well as between heterosexuals. While saying so, we gain strength and support
from the fact that the legislature, in its wisdom, while enacting Section 375
IPC in its amended form after the Criminal Law (Amendment) Act, 2013, has not
employed the words ―subject to any other provision of the IPC‖. The
implication of the absence of these words simply indicates that Section 375
IPC which does not criminalize consensual carnal intercourse between
heterosexuals is not subject to Section 377 IPC.  138
219\. Section 377, so far as it criminalises carnal intercourse between
heterosexuals is legally unsustainable in its present form for the simple
reason that Section 375 IPC clearly stipulates that carnal intercourse between
a man and a woman with the willful and informed consent of the woman does not
amount to rape and is not penal.
220\. Despite the Criminal Law (Amendment) Act, 2013 coming into force, by
virtue of which Section 375 was amended, whereby the words ‗sexual
intercourse‘ in Section 375 were replaced by four elaborate clauses from (a)
to (d) giving a wide definition to the offence of rape, Section 377 IPC still
remains in the statute book in the same form. Such an anomaly, if allowed to
persist, may result in a situation wherein a heterosexual couple who indulges
in carnal intercourse with the willful and informed consent of each other may
be held liable for the offence of unnatural sex under Section 377 IPC, despite
the fact that such an act would not be rape within the definition as provided
under Section 375 IPC.
221\. Drawing an analogy, if consensual carnal intercourse between a
heterosexual couple does not amount to rape, it definitely should not be
labelled and designated as unnatural offence under Section  139 377 IPC. If
any proclivity amongst the heterosexual population towards consensual carnal
intercourse has been allowed due to the Criminal Law (Amendment) Act, 2013,
such kind of proclivity amongst any two persons including LGBT community
cannot be treated as untenable so long as it is consensual and it is confined
within their most private and intimate spaces.
222\. There is another aspect which needs to be discussed, which is whether
criminalisation of carnal intercourse under Section 377 serves any useful
purpose under the prevalent criminal law. Delineating on this aspect, the
European Commission of Human Rights in Dudgeon (supra) opined thus:-
> ―The 1967 Act, which was introduced into Parliament as a Private Member‘s
> Bill, was passed to give effect to the recommendations concerning
> homosexuality made in 1957 in the report of the Departmental Committee on
> Homosexual Offences and Prostitution established under the chairman ship of
> Sir John Wolfenden (the ―Wolfenden Committee‖ and ―Wolfenden report‖). The
> Wolfenden Committee regarded the function of the criminal law in this field
> as:
> ―to preserve public order and decency, to protect the citizen from what is
> offensive or injurious, and to provide sufficient safeguards against
> exploitation and corruption of others, particularly those who are specially
> vulnerable because they are young, weak in body or mind, inexperienced, or
> in a state of special physical, official, or economic dependence‖,  140 but
> not ―to intervene in the private lives of citizens, or to seek to enforce
> any particular pattern of behaviour, further than is necessary to carry out
> the purposes we have outlined‖.
> The Wolfenden Committee concluded that homosexual behaviour between
> consenting adults in private was part of the ―realm of private morality and
> immorality which is, in brief and crude terms, not the law‘s business‖ and
> should no longer be criminal‖ [Underlining is ours]
223\. At the very least, it can be said that criminalisation of consensual
carnal intercourse, be it amongst homosexuals, heterosexuals, bi-sexuals or
transgenders, hardly serves any legitimate public purpose or interest. Per
contra, we are inclined to believe that if Section 377 remains in its present
form in the statute book, it will allow the harassment and exploitation of the
LGBT community to prevail. We must make it clear that freedom of choice cannot
be scuttled or abridged on the threat of criminal prosecution and made
paraplegic on the mercurial stance of majoritarian perception.
P. The litmus test for survival of Section 377 IPC
224\. Having discussed the various principles and concepts and bearing in mind
the sacrosanctity of the fundamental rights which  141 guides the
constitutional courts, we shall now proceed to deal with the constitutionality
of Section 377 IPC on the bedrock of the principles enunciated in Articles 14,
19 and 21 of the Constitution.
225\. It is axiomatic that the expression ‗life or personal liberty‘ in
Article 21 embodies within itself a variety of rights. In Maneka Gandhi
(supra), Bhagwati, J. (as he then was) observed:-
> ―The expression 'personal liberty' in Article 21 is of the widest amplitude
> and it covers a variety of rights which go to constitute the personal
> liberty of man and some of them have been raised to the status of distinct
> fundamental rights and given additional protection under Article 19...‖
226\. In Anuj Garg (supra), while dealing with the constitutional validity of
Section 30 of the Punjab Excise Act, 1914 prohibiting employment of ―any man
under the age of 25 years‖ or ―any woman‖, the Court, holding it ultra vires,
ruled thus:-
> ―31. … It is their life; subject to constitutional, statutory and social
> interdicts—a citizen of India should be allowed to live her life on her own
> terms.‖ And again:-
> ―35. Privacy rights prescribe autonomy to choose profession whereas security
> concerns texture methodology of delivery of this assurance. But it is a
> reasonable proposition that the measures to safeguard such a guarantee of
> autonomy should not be so strong  142 that the essence of the guarantee is
> lost. State protection must not translate into censorship.‖
227\. In Common Cause (A Regd. Society) (supra), the Court, in the context of
right to dignity, observed:-
> ―Right to life and liberty as envisaged under Article 21 is meaningless
> unless it encompasses within its sphere individual dignity and right to
> dignity includes the right to carry such functions and activities as would
> constitute the meaningful expression of the human self.‖
228\. In Puttaswamy (supra), the right to privacy has been declared to be a
fundamental right by this Court as being a facet of life and personal liberty
protected under Article 21 of the Constitution.
229\. In view of the above authorities, we have no hesitation to say that
Section 377 IPC, in its present form, abridges both human dignity as well as
the fundamental right to privacy and choice of the citizenry, howsoever small.
As sexual orientation is an essential and innate facet of privacy, the right
to privacy takes within its sweep the right of every individual including that
of the LGBT to express their choices in terms of sexual inclination without
the fear of persecution or criminal prosecution.
230\. The sexual autonomy of an individual to choose his/her sexual partner is
an important pillar and an insegregable facet of individual  143 liberty. When
the liberty of even a single person of the society is smothered under some
vague and archival stipulation that it is against the order of nature or under
the perception that the majority population is peeved when such an individual
exercises his/her liberty despite the fact that the exercise of such liberty
is within the confines of his/her private space, then the signature of life
melts and living becomes a bare subsistence and resultantly, the fundamental
right of liberty of such an individual is abridged.
231\. While saying so, we are absolutely conscious of the fact that the
citizenry may be deprived of their right to life and personal liberty if the
conditions laid down in Article 21 are fulfilled and if, at the same time, the
procedure established by law as laid down in Maneka Gandhi (supra) is
satisfied. Article 21 requires that for depriving a person of his right to
life and personal liberty, there has to be a law and the said law must
prescribe a fair procedure. The seminal point is to see whether Section 377
withstands the sanctity of dignity of an individual, expression of choice,
paramount concept of life and whether it allows an individual to lead to a
life that one‘s natural orientation commands. That apart, more importantly,
the question is whether such a gender-neutral offence, with the efflux of
time, should  144 be allowed to remain in the statute book especially when
there is consent and such consent elevates the status of bodily autonomy.
Hence, the provision has to be tested on the principles evolved under Articles
14, 19 and 21 of the Constitution.
232\. In Sunil Batra v. Delhi Administration and others85, Krishna Iyer, J.
opined that what is punitively outrageous, scandalizingly unusual or cruel and
rehabilitatively counterproductive, is unarguably unreasonable and arbitrary
and is shot down by Article 14 and 19 and if inflicted with procedural
unfairness, falls foul of Article 21.
233\. We, first, must test the validity of Section 377 IPC on the anvil of
Article 14 of the Constitution. What Article 14 propounds is that ‗all like
should be treated alike‘. In other words, it implies equal treatment for all
equals. Though the legislature is fully empowered to enact laws applicable to
a particular class, as in the case at hand in which Section 377 applies to
citizens who indulge in carnal intercourse, yet the classification, including
the one made under Section 377 IPC, has to satisfy the twin conditions to the
effect that the classification must be founded on an intelligible differentia
and the said differentia must 85AIR 1978 SC 1675 : (1978) 4 SCC 494  145 have
a rational nexus with the object sought to be achieved by the provision, that
is, Section 377 IPC.
234\. In M. Nagaraj and others v. Union of India and others86, it has been
held:-
> ―The gravamen of Article 14 is equality of treatment. Article 14 confers a
> personal right by enacting a prohibition which is absolute. By judicial
> decisions, the doctrine of classification is read into Article 14. Equality
> of treatment under Article 14 is an objective test. It is not the test of
> intention. Therefore, the basic principle underlying Article 14 is that the
> law must operate equally on all persons under like circumstances.‖
235\. In E.P. Royappa v. State of Tamil Nadu and another87, this Court
observed that equality is a dynamic concept with many aspects and dimensions
and it cannot be "cribbed, cabined and confined" within traditional and
doctrinaire limits. It was further held that equality is antithetic to
arbitrariness, for equality and arbitrariness are sworn enemies; one belongs
to the rule of law in a republic while the other, to the whim and caprice of
an absolute monarch.  88
236\. In Budhan Choudhry v. The State of Bihar , while delineating on the
concept of reasonable classification, the Court observed thus:-
86 AIR 2007 SC 71 : (2006) 8 SCC 212 87 AIR 1974 SC 555 : (1974) 4 SCC 3 88
AIR 1955 SC 191  146 ―It is now well-established that while article 14 forbids
class legislation, it does not forbid reasonable classification for the
purposes of legislation. In order, however, to pass the test of permissible
classification two conditions must be fulfilled, namely, (i) that the
classification must be founded on an intelligible differentia which
distinguishes persons or things that are grouped together from others left out
of the group and (ii) that differentia must have a rational relation to the
object sought to be achieved by the statute in question. The classification
may be founded on different bases; namely, geographical, or according to
objects or occupations or the like. What is necessary is that there must be a
nexus between the basis of classification and the object of the Act under
consideration. It is also well established by the decisions of this Court that
article 14 condemns discrimination not only by a substantive law but also by a
law of procedure.‖
237\. A perusal of Section 377 IPC reveals that it classifies and penalizes
persons who indulge in carnal intercourse with the object to protect women and
children from being subjected to carnal intercourse. That being so, now it is
to be ascertained whether this classification has a reasonable nexus with the
object sought to be achieved. The answer is in the negative as the non-
consensual acts which have been criminalized by virtue of Section 377 IPC have
already been designated as penal offences under Section 375 IPC and under the
POCSO Act. Per contra, the presence of this Section in its present form has
resulted in a distasteful and objectionable  147 collateral effect whereby
even ‗consensual acts‘, which are neither harmful to children nor women and
are performed by a certain class of people (LGBTs) owning to some inherent
characteristics defined by their identity and individuality, have been
woefully targeted. This discrimination and unequal treatment meted out to the
LGBT community as a separate class of citizens is unconstitutional for being
violative of Article 14 of the Constitution.
238\. In Shayara Bano (supra), the Court observed that manifest arbitrariness
of a provision of law can also be a ground for declaring a law as
unconstitutional. Opining so, the Court observed thus:-
> ―The test of manifest arbitrariness, therefore, as laid down in the
> aforesaid judgments would apply to invalidate legislation as well as
> subordinate legislation under Article 14. Manifest arbitrariness, therefore,
> must be something done by the legislature capriciously, irrationally and/or
> without adequate determining principle. Also, when something is done which
> is excessive and disproportionate, such legislation would be manifestly
> arbitrary. We are, therefore, of the view that arbitrariness in the sense of
> manifest arbitrariness as pointed out by us above would apply to negate
> legislation as well under Article 14.‖
239\. In view of the law laid down in Shayara Bano (supra) and given the fact
that Section 377 criminalises even consensual sexual acts between adults, it
fails to make a distinction between consensual and non-consensual sexual acts
between competent  148 adults. Further, Section 377 IPC fails to take into
account that consensual sexual acts between adults in private space are
neither harmful nor contagious to the society. On the contrary, Section 377
trenches a discordant note in respect of the liberty of persons belonging to
the LGBT community by subjecting them to societal pariah and dereliction.
Needless to say, the Section also interferes with consensual acts of competent
adults in private space. Sexual acts cannot be viewed from the lens of social
morality or that of traditional precepts wherein sexual acts were considered
only for the purpose of procreation. This being the case, Section 377 IPC, so
long as it criminalises consensual sexual acts of whatever nature between
competent adults, is manifestly arbitrary.
240\. The LGBT community possess the same human, fundamental and
constitutional rights as other citizens do since these rights inhere in
individuals as natural and human rights. We must remember that equality is the
edifice on which the entire non-discrimination jurisprudence rests. Respect
for individual choice is the very essence of liberty under law and, thus,
criminalizing carnal intercourse under Section 377 IPC is irrational,
indefensible and manifestly arbitrary. It is true that the principle of choice
can never be absolute under a  149 liberal Constitution and the law restricts
one individual‘s choice to prevent harm or injury to others. However, the
organisation of intimate relations is a matter of complete personal choice
especially between consenting adults. It is a vital personal right falling
within the private protective sphere and realm of individual choice and
autonomy. Such progressive proclivity is rooted in the constitutional
structure and is an inextricable part of human nature.
241\. In the adverting situation, we must also examine whether Section 377, in
its present form, stands the test of Article 19 of the Constitution in the
sense of whether it is unreasonable and, therefore, violative of Article 19.
In Chintaman Rao v. State of Madhya Pradesh89, this Court, in the context of
reasonable restrictions under Article 19, opined thus:-
> "The phrase "reasonable restriction" connotes that the limitation imposed on
> a person in enjoyment of the right should not be arbitrary or of an
> excessive nature, beyond what is required in the interests of the public.
The word "reasonable" implies intelligent care and deliberation, that is, the
choice of a course which reason dictates. Legislation which arbitrarily or
excessively invades the right cannot be said to contain the quality of
reasonableness and unless it strikes a proper balance between the freedom
guaranteed in article 19(1)(g) and the social control permitted by 89 AIR 1951
SC 118  150 clause (6) of article 19, it must be held to be wanting in that
quality."
242\. In S. Rangarajan v. P. Jagjivan Ram and others90, the Court observed,
though in a different context, thus:-
> " ... Our commitment of freedom of expression demands that it cannot be
> suppressed unless the situations created by allowing the freedom are
> pressing and the community interest is endangered. The anticipated danger
> should not be remote, conjectural or far-fetched. It should have proximate
> and direct nexus with the expression.‖
243\. In S. Khushboo (supra), this Court, while observing that ‗morality and
decency‘ on the basis of which reasonable restrictions can be imposed on the
rights guaranteed under Article 19 should not be amplified beyond a rational
and logical limit, ruled that even though the constitutional freedom of speech
and expression is not absolute and can be subjected to reasonable restrictions
on grounds such as `decency and morality' among others, yet it is necessary to
tolerate unpopular views in the socio-cultural space.
244\. In the case of Shreya Singhal v. Union of India91, this Court, while
striking down Section 66A of the Information Technology Act, 2000, had
observed that when a provision is vague and overboard in 90 (1989) 2 SCC 574
91 (2015) 5 SCC 1  151 the sense that it criminalises protected speech and
speech of innocent nature, resultantly, it has a chilling effect and is liable
to be struck down. The Court opined:-
> ―We, therefore, hold that the Section is unconstitutional also on the ground
> that it takes within its sweep protected speech and speech that is innocent
> in nature and is liable therefore to be used in such a way as to have a
> chilling effect on free speech and would, therefore, have to be struck down
> on the ground of overbreadth.‖
245\. In the obtaining situation, we need to check whether public order,
decency and morality as grounds to limit the fundamental right of expression
including choice can be accepted as reasonable restrictions to uphold the
validity of Section 377 IPC. We are of the conscious view that Section 377 IPC
takes within its fold private acts of adults including the LGBT community
which are not only consensual but are also innocent, as such acts neither
cause disturbance to the public order nor are they injurious to public decency
or morality. The law is et domus sua cuique est tutissimum refugium – A man‘s
house is his castle. Sir Edward Coke92 said:-
> ―The house of everyone is to him as his castle and fortress, as well for his
> defence against injury and violence as for his repose.‖ 92 Semayne’s Case,
> 77 Eng. Rep. 194, 195; 5 Co. Rep. 91, 195 (K.B. 1604)  152
246\. That apart, any display of affection amongst the members of the LGBT
community towards their partners in the public so long as it does not amount
to indecency or has the potentiality to disturb public order cannot be bogged
down by majority perception. Section 377 IPC amounts to unreasonable
restriction as it makes carnal intercourse between consenting adults within
their castle a criminal offence which is manifestly not only overboard and
vague but also has a chilling effect on an individual‘s freedom of choice.
247\. In view of the test laid down in the aforesaid authorities, Section 377
IPC does not meet the criteria of proportionality and is violative of the
fundamental right of freedom of expression including the right to choose a
sexual partner. Section 377 IPC also assumes the characteristic of
unreasonableness, for it becomes a weapon in the hands of the majority to
seclude, exploit and harass the LGBT community. It shrouds the lives of the
LGBT community in criminality and constant fear mars their joy of life. They
constantly face social prejudice, disdain and are subjected to the shame of
being their very natural selves. Thus, an archaic law which is incompatible
with constitutional values cannot be allowed to be preserved.
248\. Bigoted and homophobic attitudes dehumanize the  153 transgenders by
denying them their dignity, personhood and above all, their basic human
rights. It is important to realize that identity and sexual orientation cannot
be silenced by oppression. Liberty, as the linchpin of our constitutional
values, enables individuals to define and express their identity and
individual identity has to be acknowledged and respected.
249\. The very existence of Section 377 IPC criminalising transgenders casts a
great stigma on an already oppressed and discriminated class of people. This
stigma, oppression and prejudice has to be eradicated and the transgenders
have to progress from their narrow claustrophobic spaces of mere survival in
hiding with their isolation and fears to enjoying the richness of living out
of the shadows with full realization of their potential and equal
opportunities in all walks of life. The ideals and objectives enshrined in our
benevolent Constitution can be achieved only when each and every individual is
empowered and enabled to participate in the social mainstream and in the
journey towards achieving equality in all spheres, equality of opportunities
in all walks of life, equal freedoms and rights and, above all, equitable
justice. This can be achieved only by inclusion of all and exclusion of none
from the mainstream.  154
250\. We must realize that different hues and colours together make the
painting of humanity beautiful and this beauty is the essence of humanity. We
need to respect the strength of our diversity so as to sustain our unity as a
cohesive unit of free citizens by fostering tolerance and respect for each
others‘ rights thereby progressing towards harmonious and peaceful co-
existence in the supreme bond of humanity. Attitudes and mentality have to
change to accept the distinct identity of individuals and respect them for who
they are rather than compelling them to ‗become‘ who they are not. All human
beings possess the equal right to be themselves instead of transitioning or
conditioning themselves as per the perceived dogmatic notions of a group of
people. To change the societal bias and root out the weed, it is the foremost
duty of each one of us to ―stand up and speak up‖ against the slightest form
of discrimination against transgenders that we come across. Let us move from
darkness to light, from bigotry to tolerance and from the winter of mere
survival to the spring of life ― as the herald of a New India ― to a more
inclusive society.
251\. It is through times of grave disappointment, denunciation, adversity,
grief, injustice and despair that the transgenders have  155 stood firm with
their formidable spirit, inspired commitment, strong determination and
infinite hope and belief that has made them look for the rainbow in every
cloud and lead the way to a future that would be the harbinger of liberation
and emancipation from a certain bondage indescribable in words – towards the
basic recognition of dignity and humanity of all and towards leading a life
without pretence eschewing duality and ambivalence. It is their momentous
―walk to freedom‖ and journey to a constitutional ethos of dignity, equality
and liberty and this freedom can only be fulfilled in its truest sense when
each of us realize that the LGBT community possess equal rights as any other
citizen in the country under the magnificent charter of rights – our
Constitution.
252\. Thus analysed, Section 377 IPC, so far as it penalizes any consensual
sexual activity between two adults, be it homosexuals (man and a man),
heterosexuals (man and a woman) and lesbians (woman and a woman), cannot be
regarded as constitutional. However, if anyone, by which we mean both a man
and a woman, engages in any kind of sexual activity with an animal, the said
aspect of Section 377 IPC is constitutional and it shall remain a penal
offence under Section 377 IPC. Any act of the description covered  156 under
Section 377 IPC done between the individuals without the consent of any one of
them would invite penal liability under Section 377 IPC.
Q. Conclusions
253\. In view of the aforesaid analysis, we record our conclusions in
seriatim:-
> (i) The eminence of identity which has been luculently stated in the NALSA
> case very aptly connects human rights and the constitutional guarantee of
> right to life and liberty with dignity.
> With the same spirit, we must recognize that the concept of identity which
> has a constitutional tenability cannot be pigeon-holed singularly to one‘s
> orientation as it may keep the individual choice at bay. At the core of the
> concept of identity lies self-determination, realization of one‘s own
> abilities visualizing the opportunities and rejection of external views with
> a clear conscience that is in accord with constitutional norms and values or
> principles that are, to put in a capsule, ―constitutionally permissible‖.
> (ii) In Suresh Koushal (supra), this Court overturned the decision of the
> Delhi High Court in Naz Foundation (supra)  157 thereby upholding the
> constitutionality of Section 377 IPC and stating a ground that the LGBT
> community comprised only a minuscule fraction of the total population and
> that the mere fact that the said Section was being misused is not a
> reflection of the vires of the Section. Such a view is constitutionally
> impermissible.
(iii) Our Constitution is a living and organic document capable of expansion
with the changing needs and demands of the society. The Courts must
commemorate that it is the Constitution and its golden principles to which
they bear their foremost allegiance and they must robe themselves with the
armoury of progressive and pragmatic interpretation to combat the evils of
inequality and injustice that try to creep into the society. The role of the
Courts gains more importance when the rights which are affected belong to a
class of persons or a minority group who have been deprived of even their
basic rights since time immemorial.
(iv) The primary objective of having a constitutional democracy is to
transform the society progressively and inclusively. Our Constitution has been
perceived to be transformative in the  158 sense that the interpretation of
its provisions should not be limited to the mere literal meaning of its words;
instead they ought to be given a meaningful construction which is reflective
of their intent and purpose in consonance with the changing times.
Transformative constitutionalism not only includes within its wide periphery
the recognition of the rights and dignity of individuals but also propagates
the fostering and development of an atmosphere wherein every individual is
bestowed with adequate opportunities to develop socially, economically and
politically. Discrimination of any kind strikes at the very core of any
democratic society. When guided by transformative constitutionalism, the
society is dissuaded from indulging in any form of discrimination so that the
nation is guided towards a resplendent future.
(v) Constitutional morality embraces within its sphere several virtues,
foremost of them being the espousal of a pluralistic and inclusive society.
The concept of constitutional morality urges the organs of the State,
including the Judiciary, to preserve the heterogeneous nature of the society
and to curb any attempt by the majority to usurp the rights and  159 freedoms
of a smaller or minuscule section of the populace. Constitutional morality
cannot be martyred at the altar of social morality and it is only
constitutional morality that can be allowed to permeate into the Rule of Law.
The veil of social morality cannot be used to violate fundamental rights of
even a single individual, for the foundation of constitutional morality rests
upon the recognition of diversity that pervades the society.
(vi) The right to live with dignity has been recognized as a human right on
the international front and by number of precedents of this Court and,
therefore, the constitutional courts must strive to protect the dignity of
every individual, for without the right to dignity, every other right would be
rendered meaningless. Dignity is an inseparable facet of every individual that
invites reciprocative respect from others to every aspect of an individual
which he/she perceives as an essential attribute of his/her individuality, be
it an orientation or an optional expression of choice. The Constitution has
ladened the judiciary with the very important duty to protect and ensure the
right of every individual  160 including the right to express and choose
without any impediments so as to enable an individual to fully realize his/her
fundamental right to live with dignity.
(vii) Sexual orientation is one of the many biological phenomena which is
natural and inherent in an individual and is controlled by neurological and
biological factors. The science of sexuality has theorized that an individual
exerts little or no control over who he/she gets attracted to. Any
discrimination on the basis of one‘s sexual orientation would entail a
violation of the fundamental right of freedom of expression.
(viii) After the privacy judgment in Puttaswamy (supra), the right to privacy
has been raised to the pedestal of a fundamental right. The reasoning in
Suresh Koushal (supra), that only a minuscule fraction of the total population
comprises of LGBT community and that the existence of Section 377 IPC abridges
the fundamental rights of a very minuscule percentage of the total populace,
is found to be a discordant note. The said reasoning in Suresh Koushal
(supra), in our opinion, is fallacious, for the framers of our Constitution
could have never intended that the fundamental rights shall  161 be extended
for the benefit of the majority only and that the Courts ought to interfere
only when the fundamental rights of a large percentage of the total populace
is affected. In fact, the said view would be completely against the
constitutional ethos, for the language employed in Part III of the
Constitution as well as the intention of the framers of our Constitution
mandates that the Courts must step in whenever there is a violation of the
fundamental rights, even if the right/s of a single individual is/are in
peril.
(ix) There is a manifest ascendance of rights under the Constitution which
paves the way for the doctrine of progressive realization of rights as such
rights evolve with the evolution of the society. This doctrine, as a natural
corollary, gives birth to the doctrine of non-retrogression, as per which
there must not be atavism of constitutional rights. In the light of the same,
if we were to accept the view in Suresh Koushal (supra), it would tantamount
to a retrograde step in the direction of the progressive interpretation of the
Constitution and denial of progressive realization of rights.
162
(x) Autonomy is individualistic. Under the autonomy principle, the individual
has sovereignty over his/her body. He/she can surrender his/her autonomy
wilfully to another individual and their intimacy in privacy is a matter of
their choice. Such concept of identity is not only sacred but is also in
recognition of the quintessential facet of humanity in a person‘s nature. The
autonomy establishes identity and the said identity, in the ultimate
eventuate, becomes a part of dignity in an individual.
(xi) A cursory reading of both Sections 375 IPC and 377 IPC reveals that
although the former Section gives due recognition to the absence of ‗wilful
and informed consent‘ for an act to be termed as rape, per contra, Section 377
does not contain any such qualification embodying in itself the absence of
‗wilful and informed consent‘ to criminalize carnal intercourse which
consequently results in criminalizing even voluntary carnal intercourse
between homosexuals, heterosexuals, bisexuals and transgenders. Section 375
IPC, after the coming into force of the Criminal Law (Amendment) Act, 2013,
has not used the words  163 ‗subject to any other provision of the IPC‘. This
indicates that Section 375 IPC is not subject to Section 377 IPC.
(xii) The expression ‗against the order of nature‘ has neither been defined in
Section 377 IPC nor in any other provision of the IPC. The connotation given
to the expression by various judicial pronouncements includes all sexual acts
which are not intended for the purpose of procreation. Therefore, if coitus is
not performed for procreation only, it does not per se make it ‗against the
order of nature‘.
(xiii) Section 377 IPC, in its present form, being violative of the right to
dignity and the right to privacy, has to be tested, both, on the pedestal of
Articles 14 and 19 of the Constitution as per the law laid down in Maneka
Gandhi (supra) and other later authorities.
(xiv) An examination of Section 377 IPC on the anvil of Article 14 of the
Constitution reveals that the classification adopted under the said Section
has no reasonable nexus with its object as other penal provisions such as
Section 375 IPC and the POCSO Act already penalize non-consensual carnal
intercourse. Per contra, Section 377 IPC in its present form  164 has resulted
in an unwanted collateral effect whereby even ‗consensual sexual acts‘, which
are neither harmful to children nor women, by the LGBTs have been woefully
targeted thereby resulting in discrimination and unequal treatment to the LGBT
community and is, thus, violative of Article 14 of the Constitution.
(xv) Section 377 IPC, so far as it criminalises even consensual sexual acts
between competent adults, fails to make a distinction between non-consensual
and consensual sexual acts of competent adults in private space which are
neither harmful nor contagious to the society. Section 377 IPC subjects the
LGBT community to societal pariah and dereliction and is, therefore,
manifestly arbitrary, for it has become an odious weapon for the harassment of
the LGBT community by subjecting them to discrimination and unequal treatment.
Therefore, in view of the law laid down in Shayara Bano (supra), Section 377
IPC is liable to be partially struck down for being violative of Article 14 of
the Constitution.
165
(xvi) An examination of Section 377 IPC on the anvil of Article 19(1)(a)
reveals that it amounts to an unreasonable restriction, for public decency and
morality cannot be amplified beyond a rational or logical limit and cannot be
accepted as reasonable grounds for curbing the fundamental rights of freedom
of expression and choice of the LGBT community. Consensual carnal intercourse
among adults, be it homosexual or heterosexual, in private space, does not in
any way harm the public decency or morality. Therefore, Section 377 IPC in its
present form violates Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution.
(xvii) Ergo, Section 377 IPC, so far as it penalizes any consensual sexual
relationship between two adults, be it homosexuals (man and a man),
heterosexuals (man and a woman) or lesbians (woman and a woman), cannot be
regarded as constitutional. However, if anyone, by which we mean both a man
and a woman, engages in any kind of sexual activity with an animal, the said
aspect of Section 377 is constitutional and it shall remain a penal offence
under Section 377 IPC. Any act of the description covered under  166 Section
377 IPC done between two individuals without the consent of any one of them
would invite penal liability under Section 377 IPC.
(xviii) The decision in Suresh Koushal (supra), not being in consonance with
what we have stated hereinabove, is overruled.
254\. The Writ Petitions are, accordingly, disposed of. There shall be no
order as to costs.
……………………………….CJI (Dipak Misra) …………………………….…..J.
(A.M. Khanwilkar) New Delhi;
September 6, 2018 REPORTABLE IN THE SUPREME COURT OF INDIA CRIMINAL/CIVIL
ORIGINAL JURISDICTION WRIT PETITION (CRIMINAL) NO. 76 OF 2016 NAVTEJ SINGH
JOHAR & ORS. …PETITIONERS VERSUS UNION OF INDIA …RESPONDENT WITH WRIT PETITION
(CIVIL) NO.572 OF 2016 WITH WRIT PETITION (CRIMINAL) NO.88 OF 2018 WITH WRIT
PETITION (CRIMINAL) NO.100 OF 2018 WITH WRIT PETITION (CRIMINAL) NO.101 OF
2018 WITH WRIT PETITION (CRIMINAL) NO.121 OF 2018  1 JUDGMENT R.F. Nariman, J.
1\. “The love that dare not speak its name” is how the love that exists
between same-sex couples was described by Lord Alfred Douglas, the lover of
Oscar Wilde, in his poem Two Loves published in 1894 in Victorian England.
2\. The word “homosexual” is not derived from “homo” meaning man, but from
“homo” meaning same.1 The word “lesbian” is derived from the name of the Greek
island of Lesbos, where it was rumored that female same-sex couples
proliferated. What we have before us is a relook at the constitutional
validity of Section 377 of the Indian Penal Code which was enacted in the year
1860 (over 150 years ago) insofar as it criminalises consensual sex between
adult same- sex couples.
3\. These cases have had a chequered history. Writ petitions were filed before
the Delhi High Court challenging the 1 Homo in Greek means ‘same’ – the Nicene
creed that was accepted by the Catholic Church after the Council at Nicaea,
held by Emperor Constantine in 325 AD, was formulated with the word ‘homo’ at
the forefront. When coupled with ‘sios’ it means same substance, meaning
thereby that Jesus Christ was divine as he was of the same substance as God.
2
constitutional validity of Section 377 of the Penal Code insofar as it
criminalizes consensual sex between adult same-sex couples within the confines
of their homes or other private places. A Division Bench of the Delhi High
Court in Naz Foundation v. Government of NCT of Delhi (“Naz Foundation”), 111
DRJ 1 (2009), after considering wide- ranging arguments on both sides, finally
upheld the plea of the petitioners in the following words:
> “132. We declare that Section 377 IPC, insofar it criminalises consensual
> sexual acts of adults in private, is violative of Articles 21, 14 and 15 of
> the Constitution. The provisions of Section 377 IPC will continue to govern
> non-consensual penile non- vaginal sex and penile non-vaginal sex involving
> minors. By ‘adult’ we mean everyone who is 18 years of age and above. A
> person below 18 would be presumed not to be able to consent to a sexual act.
> This clarification will hold till, of course, Parliament chooses to amend
> the law to effectuate the recommendation of the Law Commission of India in
> its 172nd Report which we believe removes a great deal of confusion.
> Secondly, we clarify that our judgment will not result in the re-opening of
> criminal cases involving Section 377 IPC that have already attained
> finality.
> We allow the writ petition in the above terms.”
4\. Despite the fact that no appeal was filed by the Union of India, in
appeals filed by private individuals and groups, the  3 Supreme Court in
Suresh Kumar Koushal and Anr. v. Naz Foundation and Ors. (“Suresh Kumar
Koushal”), (2014) 1 SCC 1, reversed the judgment of the High Court. Reviews
that were filed against the aforesaid judgment, including by the Union of
India, were dismissed by this Court.
5\. Meanwhile, the Supreme Court delivered an important judgment reported as
National Legal Services Authority v. Union of India (“NALSA”), (2014) 5 SCC
438, which construed Articles 15 and 21 of the Constitution of India as
including the right to gender identity and sexual orientation, and held that
just like men and women, transgenders could enjoy all the fundamental rights
that other citizens of India could enjoy. Thereafter, in Justice K.S.
Puttaswamy (Retd.) and Anr. v. Union of India and Ors. (“Puttaswamy”), (2017)
10 SCC 1, a nine-Judge Bench of this Court unanimously declared that there is
a fundamental right of privacy which enured in favour of all persons, the
concomitant of which was that the right to make choices that were fundamental
to a person’s way of living could not be interfered with by the State without
compelling necessity and/or harm caused to other individuals.
4
6\. The impetus of this decision is what led to a three-Judge Bench order of
08.01.2018, which referred to the judgment of Puttaswamy (supra) and other
arguments made by Shri Datar, to refer the correctness of Suresh Kumar
Koushal’s case (supra) to a larger Bench. This is how the matter has come to
us.
History of Section 377
7\. In the western world, given the fact that both Judaism and Christianity
outlawed sexual intercourse by same-sex couples, offences relating thereto
were decided by ecclesiastical courts. It is only as a result of Henry VIII of
England breaking with the Roman Catholic Church that legislation in his reign,
namely the Buggery Act of 1533, prohibited “the detestable and abominable
offence” of buggery committed with mankind or beast.
8\. Between 1806, when reliable figures begin, and 1900, 8,921 men were
indicted for sodomy, gross indecency or other ‘unnatural misdemeanours’ in
England and Wales. Ninety men per year were, on average, indicted for
homosexual offences in  5 this period. About a third as many were arrested and
their case considered by magistrates. Most of the men convicted were
imprisoned, but between 1806 and 1861, when the death penalty for sodomy was
finally abolished, 404 men were sentenced to death. Fifty-six were executed,
and the remainder were either imprisoned or transported to Australia for life.
Two such men, James Pratt and John Smith, were the last to be executed in
Britain for sodomy on 27 November, 1835.
9\. During the reign of the East India Company in India, Parliament
established what was called the Indian Law Commission. In 1833, Thomas
Babington Macaulay was appointed to chair the Commission.2
10\. The Indian Law Commission, with Macaulay as its head, submitted the Draft
Penal Code to the Government of India on 14.10.1837. This draft consisted of
488 clauses. After the First Report submitted on 23.07.1846, the Second Report
of Her Majesty’s Commissioners for revising and consolidating the law was
submitted by C.H. Cameron and D. Eliott on 24.06.1847. 2Thomas Babington
Macaulay was a Whig liberal who was a precocious genius. Apart from having a
photographic memory with which he astounded persons around him, one incident
which took place when Macaulay was only 5 years old told the world what was in
store for it when Macaulay would reach adulthood. A lady dropped some hot
coffee on the five-year old child and expressed great sorrow for doing so. The
child riposted, after letting out a scream, “Madam, the agony has abated”.  6
These Commissioners concluded that the Draft Penal Code was sufficiently
complete, and, with slight modifications, fit to be acted upon. The revised
edition of the Penal Code was then forwarded to the Judges of the Supreme
Court at Calcutta on 30.05.1851, and also to the Judges of the Sudder Court at
Calcutta.
11\. The revised edition of the Penal Code as prepared by Mr. Bethune, the
Legislative member of the Legislative Council of India, together with the
views of the Chief Justice and Mr. Justice Buller of the Supreme Court at
Calcutta, as well as those of Mr. Justice Colvile were sent to the Company in
London. The Court of Directors in London were anxious to see the Penal Code
enacted as early as possible. They, therefore, constituted a Council in which
Sir Barnes Peacock was made the fourth member.
12\. This Council or Committee prepared a revised Penal Code which was then
referred to a Select Committee in 1857. Given the Indian Mutiny of 1857, the
Code was passed soon thereafter in October, 1860 and brought into force on
01.01.1862. Sir James Fitzjames Stephen proclaimed that:  7 “The Indian Penal
Code is to the English criminal law what a manufactured article ready for use
is to the materials out of which it is made. It is to the French Penal Code
and, I may add, to the North Germany Code of 1871, what a finished picture is
to a sketch. It is far simpler, and much better expressed, than Livingston’s
Code for Louisiana; and its practical success has been complete”.
13\. He further described the Penal Code as:-
> “the criminal law of England freed from all technicalities and
> superfluities, systematically arranged and modified in some few particulars
> (they are surprisingly few), to suit circumstances of British India.”
14\. According to Lord Macaulay, a good Code should have the qualities of
precision and comprehensibility. In a letter to Lord Auckland, the Governor
General of India in Council, which accompanied his draft Penal Code, he
stated:
> “There are two things which a legislator should always have in view while he
> is framing laws: the one is that they should be as far as possible precise;
> the other that they should be easily understood. That a law, and especially
> a penal law, should be drawn in words which convey no meaning to the people
> who are to obey it, is an evil. On the other hand, a loosely worded law is
> no law, and to whatever extent a legislature uses vague expressions, to that
> extent it abdicates its functions, and resigns the power of making law to
> the Courts of Justice.”  8
15\. Stung to the quick, when criticized as to the delay in bringing out the
Code, he observed in a Minute to Lord Auckland as follows:
> “…when I remember the slow progress of law reforms at home and when I
> consider that our Code decides hundreds of questions… every one of which if
> stirred in England would give occasion to voluminous controversy and to many
> animated debates, I must acknowledge that I am inclined to fear that we have
> been guilty rather of precipitation than of delay.”
16\. Earlier, he had described the core objective of his project in his
04.06.1835 Minute to the Council which could be paraphrased as follows:-
> It should be more than a mere digest of existing laws, covering all
> contingencies, and ‘nothing that is not in the Code ought to be law’.
> It should suppress crime with the least infliction of suffering and allow
> for the ascertaining of the truth at the smallest possible cost of time and
> money. Its language should be clear, unequivocal and concise. Every criminal
> act should be separately defined, its language followed precisely in
> indictment and conduct found to fall clearly within the definition.
> Uniformity was to be the chief end and special definitions, procedures or
> other exceptions to account for different races or sects should not be
> included without clear and strong reasons.
9
17\. It is interesting to note that Lord Macaulay’s Draft was substantially
different from what was enacted as Section 377. Macaulay’s original draft
read:-
> “361. Whoever, intending to gratify unnatural lust, touches for that purpose
> any person, or any animal, or is by his own consent touched by any person,
> for the purpose of gratifying unnatural lust, shall be punished with
> imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to fourteen
> years and must not be less than two years, and shall be liable to fine.
> 362\. Whoever, intending to gratify unnatural lust, touches for that purpose
> any person without that person’s free and intelligent consent, shall be
> punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend
> to life and must not be less than seven years, and shall also be liable to
> fine.”
18\. What is remarkable for the time in which he lived is the fact that Lord
Macaulay would punish touching another person for the purpose of gratifying
“unnatural lust” without their “free and intelligent consent” with a term of
imprisonment extendable to life (but not less than seven years) while the
penalty for the same offence, when consensual, would be imprisonment for a
maximum term of fourteen years (but not less than two years). Even in this
most prudish of all periods of English history, Lord  10 Macaulay recognized a
lesser sentence for the crime of “unnatural lust”, if performed with consent.
Living in the era in which he lived, he clearly eschewed public discussion on
this subject, stating:-
> “Clause 361 and 362 relate to an odious class of offences respecting which
> it is desirable that as little as possible should be said. We leave, without
> comment, to the judgment of his Lordship in Council the two clauses which we
> have provided for these offences. We are unwilling to insert, either in the
> text or in the notes, anything which could give rise to public discussion on
> this revolting subject; as we are decidedly of the opinion that the injury
> which would be done to the morals of the community by such discussion would
> far more than compensate for any benefits which might be derived from
> legislative measures framed with the greatest precision.”
19\. At what stage of the proceedings before the various persons and
committees after 1837, Section 377 finally took shape, is not clear. What is
clear is that it is the Committee of Sir Barnes Peacock which finally sent the
draft equivalent of Section 377 for enactment.
20\. The Indian Penal Code, given its long life of over 150 years, has had
surprisingly few amendments made to it. The 42nd Law Commission Report, early
in this country’s history, did not recommend the amendment or deletion of
Section 377. But  11 B. P. Jeevan Reddy, J.’s Law Commission Report of the
year 2000 (the 172nd Report) recommended its deletion consequent to changes
made in the preceding sections, which made it clear that anal sex between
consenting adults, whether same-sex or otherwise, would not be penalized.
Law in the United Kingdom
21\. As has been mentioned earlier in this judgment, the first enactment
prohibiting same-sex intercourse was passed in the year 1533 in the reign of
Henry VIII. The death penalty was prescribed even for consenting adults who
indulged in this “abomination”. The trial of persons such as Oscar Wilde is
what led to law reform in the U.K., albeit 60 years later.
22\. The Marquess of Queensberry’s son, Lord Alfred Douglas, was having an
affair with Oscar Wilde, which the Marquess discovered. At Oscar Wilde’s club,
the Marquess left a note describing Oscar Wilde as a “somdomite” which led to
one of the most celebrated defamation actions in England. In the course of his
cross-examination of Oscar Wilde, Sir Edward Carson was able to draw from his
famous witness the fact that  12 boys could be plain or ugly, which would have
led to the truth of establishing the charge against Oscar Wilde. Rather than
go on with the trial, Oscar Wilde hastily withdrew his action for defamation.
But that was not the end. A prosecution under the Criminal Law Amendment Act
of 1885 followed, in which Oscar Wilde was convicted and sent to jail for a
period of two years. He never quite recovered, for after his jail sentence was
served out, he died a broken and impoverished man in Paris at the early age of
46.3
23\. The winds of change slowly blew over the British Isles and finally, post
the Second World War, what is known as the Wolfenden Committee was appointed
on 24.08.1954, inter alia to consider the law and practice relating to
homosexual offences and the treatment of persons convicted of such offences by
the courts. The Committee Report, even though it is of a vintage of September
1957, makes interesting reading. In paragraphs 31 and 32 of the Report, the
Committee opined:- 3 Much more could have come from the pen of this genius. In
fact, when crossing the U.S. Customs and being asked whether he had anything
to declare, his famous answer was said to have been, “I have nothing to
declare except my genius.” But even unjust jail sentences can produce
remarkable things – The Ballad of Reading Gaol is a masterpiece of English
poetry which the world would never have received had he not been incarcerated
in Reading Gaol.  13 “31. Even if it could be established that homosexuality
were a disease, it is clear that many individuals, however their state is
reached, present social rather than medical problems and must be dealt with by
social, including penological, methods. This is especially relevant when the
claim that homosexuality is an illness is taken to imply that its treatment
should be a medical responsibility. Much more important than the academic
question whether homosexuality is a disease is the practical question whether
a doctor should carry out any part or all of the treatment. Psychiatrists deal
regularly with problems of personality which are not regarded as diseases, and
conversely the treatment of cases of recognized psychiatric illness may not be
strictly medical but may best be carried out by non-medical supervision or
environmental change. Examples would be certain cases of senile dementia or
chronic schizophrenia which can best be managed at home. In fact, the
treatment of behavior disorders, even when medically supervised, is rarely
confined to psychotherapy or to treatment of a strictly medical kind. This is
not to deny that expert advice should be sought in very many homosexual cases.
We shall have something more to say on these matters in connection with the
treatment of offenders.
32\. The claim that homosexuality is an illness carries the further
implication that the sufferer cannot help it and therefore carries a
diminished responsibility for his actions. Even if it were accepted that
homosexuality could properly be described as a “disease”, we should not accept
this corollary. There are no prima facie grounds for supposing that because a
particular person’s sexual propensity happens to lie in the direction of
persons of his or her own sex it is any less controllable than that of those
whose propensity is for persons of the opposite sex. We are informed that
patients in mental hospitals, with few exceptions, show clearly  14 by their
behavior that they can and do exercise a high degree of responsibility and
self-control; for example, only a small minority need to be kept in locked
wards. The existence of varying degrees of self-control is a matter of daily
experience - the extent to which coughing can be controlled is an example -
and the capacity for self-control can vary with the personality structure or
with temporary physical or emotional conditions. The question which is
important for us here is whether the individual suffers from a condition which
causes diminished responsibility. This is a different question from the
question whether he was responsible in the past for the causes or origins of
his present condition. That is an interesting enquiry and may be of relevance
in other connections; but our concern is with the behavior which flows from
the individual’s present condition and with the extent to which he is
responsible for that behavior, whatever may have been the causes of the
condition from which it springs. Just as expert opinion can give valuable
assistance in deciding on the appropriate ways of dealing with a convicted
person, so can it help in assessing the additional factors that may affect his
present responsibility?”
24\. It then went on to note in paragraph 36 that the evidence before them
showed that homosexuality existed in all levels of society and was prevalent
in all trades and professions. In paragraph 53, the main arguments for
retention of the existing law were set out. Insofar as societal health was
concerned, the Committee rejected this for lack of evidence. It went on to
state:-
15 “54. As regards the first of these arguments, it is held that conduct of
this kind is a cause of the demoralization and decay of civilisations, and
that therefore, unless we wish to see our nation degenerate and decay, such
conduct must be stopped, by every possible means. We have found no evidence to
support this view, and we cannot feel it right to frame the laws which should
govern this country in the present age by reference to hypothetical
explanations of the history of other peoples in ages distant in time and
different in circumstances from our own. In so far as the basis of this
argument can be precisely formulated, it is often no more than the expression
of revulsion against what is regarded as unnatural, sinful or disgusting. Many
people feel this revulsion, for one or more of these reasons. But moral
conviction or instinctive feeling, however strong, is not a valid basis for
overriding the individual’s privacy and for bringing within the ambit of the
criminal law private sexual behaviour of this kind. It is held also that if
such men are employed in certain professions or certain branches of the public
service their private habits may render them liable to threats of blackmail or
to other pressures which may make them “bad security risks.” If this is true,
it is true also of some other categories of persons: for example, drunkards,
gamblers and those who become involved in compromising situations of a
heterosexual kind; and while it may be a valid ground for excluding from
certain forms of employment men who indulge in homosexual behaviour, it does
not, in our view, constitute a sufficient reason for making their private
sexual behaviour an offence in itself.” (Emphasis supplied)  16
25\. Insofar as the damaging effects on family life were concerned, this was
rejected by stating:-
> “55. The second contention, that homosexual behaviour between males has a
> damaging effect on family life, may well be true. Indeed, we have had
> evidence, that it often is; cases in which homosexual behaviour on the part
> of the husband has broken up a marriage are by no means rare, and there are
> also cases in which a man in whom the homosexual component is relatively
> weak nevertheless derives such satisfaction from homosexual outlets that he
> does not enter upon a marriage which might have been successfully and
> happily consummated. We deplore this damage to what we regard as the basic
> unit of society; but cases are also frequently encountered in which a
> marriage has been broken up by homosexual behaviour on the part of the wife,
> and no doubt some women, too, derive sufficient satisfaction from homosexual
> outlets to prevent their marrying. We have had no reasons shown to us which
> would lead us to believe that homosexual behaviour between males inflicts
> any greater damage on family life than adultery, fornication or lesbian
> behaviour. These practices are all reprehensible from the point of view of
> harm to the family, but it is difficult to see why on this ground male
> homosexual behaviour alone among them should be a criminal offence. This
> argument is not to be taken as saying that society should condone or approve
> male homosexual behaviour. But where adultery, fornication and lesbian
> behaviour are not criminal offences there seems to us to be no valid ground,
> on the basis of damage to the family, for so regarding homosexual behaviour
> between men. Moreover, it has to be recognized that the mere existence of
> the condition of homosexuality in one of the partners can result in an
> unsatisfactory marriage, so that for a  17 homosexual to marry simply for
> the sake of conformity with the accepted structure of society or in the hope
> of curing his condition may result in disaster.”
26\. And in rejecting the allegation that men indulging in such practices with
other men may turn their attention to boys, the Committee said:-
> “56. We have given anxious consideration to the third argument, that an
> adult male who has sought as his partner another adult male may turn from
> such a relationship and seek as his partner a boy or succession of boys. We
> should certainly not wish to countenance any proposal which might tend to
> increase offences against minors. Indeed, if we thought that any
> recommendation for a change in the law would increase the danger to minors,
> we should not make it. But in this matter, we have been much influenced by
> our expert witnesses. They are in no doubt that whatever may be the origins
> of the homosexual condition, there are two recognisably different categories
> among adult male homosexuals. There are those who seek as partners other
> adult males, and there are paedophiliacs, that is to say men who seek as
> partners boys who have not reached puberty.
> 57\. We are authoritatively informed that a man who has homosexual relations
> with an adult partner seldom turns to boys, and vice-versa, though it is
> apparent from the police reports we have seen and from other evidence
> submitted to us that such cases do happen.”
27\. Finally, the Committee stated:
“60. We recognise that a proposal to change a law which has operated for many
years so as to make  18 legally permissible acts which were formerly unlawful,
is open to criticisms which might not be made in relation to a proposal to
omit, from a code of laws being formulated de novo, any provision making these
acts illegal. To reverse a long-
standing tradition is a serious matter and not to be suggested lightly. But
the task entrusted to us, as we conceive it, is to state what we regard as a
just and equitable law. We therefore do not think it appropriate that
consideration of this question should be unduly influenced by a regard for the
present law, much of which derives from traditions whose origins are obscure.
61\. Further, we feel bound to say this. We have outlined the arguments
against a change in the law, and we recognise their weight. We believe,
however, that they have been met by the counter- arguments we have already
advanced. There remains one additional counter-argument which we believe to be
decisive, namely, the importance which society and the law ought to give to
individual freedom of choice and action in matters of private morality. Unless
a deliberate attempt is to be made by society, acting through the agency of
the law, to equate the sphere of crime with that of sin, there must remain a
realm of private morality and immorality which is, in brief and crude terms,
not the law’s business. To say this is not to condone or encourage private
immorality. On the contrary, to emphasise the personal and private
responsibility of the individual for his own actions, and that is a
responsibility which a mature agent can properly be expected to carry for
himself without the threat of punishment from the law.
62\. We accordingly recommend that homosexual behaviour between consenting
adults in private should no longer be a criminal offence.”  19
28\. Change came slowly. It was only in 1967 that the Wolfenden Committee
Report was acted upon by the British Parliament by enacting the Sexual
Offences Act, 1967, which abolished penal offences involving consenting same-
sex adults.
29\. In 2017, the United Kingdom passed the Policing and Crimes Act which
served as an amnesty law to pardon persons who were cautioned or convicted
under legislations that outlawed homosexual acts.4 The Law in the United
States
30\. At the time that the United States achieved independence in 1776, the law
in all the States insofar as same-sex offences were concerned, was the English
law. This state of affairs continued until challenges were made in the last
century to state statutes which criminalized sodomy. One such case, namely,
Bowers v. Hardwick (“Bowers”), 92 L. Ed. 2d 140 (1986), reached the United
States Supreme Court in the year 1986\. By a 5:4 decision, the United States
Supreme Court upheld a Georgia statute criminalizing sodomy and its 4 The
impetus for this law was the prosecution of Alan Turing in 1952. Alan Turing
was instrumental in cracking intercepted code messages that enabled the Allies
to defeat Germany in many crucial engagements in the War. Turing accepted
chemical castration treatment as an alternative to prison upon conviction, but
committed suicide just before his 42nd birthday in 1954.  20 applicability to
the commission of that act with another adult male in the bedroom of the
respondent’s home. Justice White, who spoke for the majority of the Court, did
this on several grounds.
31\. First and foremost, he stated that there was no right to privacy that
extended to homosexual sodomy. No connection between family, marriage, or
procreation and homosexuality had been demonstrated to the court. The next
ground for upholding such law was that proscriptions against such conduct had
ancient roots. Stanley v. Georgia (“Stanley”), 22 L. Ed. 2d 542 (1969), where
the Court held that the First Amendment prohibits conviction for possessing
and reading obscene material in the privacy of one’s home, was brushed aside
stating that Stanley itself recognized that its holding offered no protection
for possession of drugs, firearms or stolen goods in the home. Therefore, such
a claimed fundamental right could not possibly exist when adultery, incest and
other sexual crimes are punished, even though they may be committed in the
home. Another important rationale was that the Georgia law was based on a
notion of morality, which is a choice that could  21 legitimately be exercised
by a State Legislature. Chief Justice Burger, concurring, again relied heavily
on ‘ancient roots’, stating that throughout the history of western
civilization, homosexual sodomy was outlawed in the Judeo-Christian tradition,
which the Georgia legislature could well follow. Justice Powell, concurring
with the majority, found that to imprison a person upto 20 years for a single,
private, consensual act of sodomy within the home would be a cruel and unusual
punishment within the meaning of the Eighth Amendment. However, since no trial
had taken place on the facts, and since the respondent did not raise any such
Eighth Amendment issue, Justice Powell concurred with the majority.
32\. The dissenting opinion of four Justices makes interesting reading.
Justice Blackmun, who spoke for four dissenters, began with the classical
definition of the old privacy right which is the “right to be let alone”, and
quoted from Justice Holmes’ article The Path of the Law, stating:-
> “[i]t is revolting to have no better reason for a rule of law than that so
> it was laid down in the time of Henry IV. It is still more revolting if the
> grounds upon which it was laid down have vanished long since,  22 and the
> rule simply persists from blind imitation of the past.”
33\. So much, then, for history and its “ancient roots”. Justice Blackmun’s
dissent then went on to consider the famous judgment in Wisconsin v. Yoder, 32
L. Ed. 2d 15 (1972), in which the Court had upheld the fundamental right of
the Amish community not to send their children to schools, stating that a way
of life that is odd or even erratic but interferes with no rights or interests
of others is not to be condemned because it is different. Referring to Judeo-
Christian values, the Court said that the fact that certain religious groups
condemn the behavior of sodomy gives the State no licence to impose their
moral judgment on the entire citizenry of the United States. Ending with a
John Stuart Mill type of analysis, the dissent stated:-
> “44. This case involves no real interference with the rights of others, for
> the mere knowledge that other individuals do not adhere to one’s value
> system cannot be a legally cognizable interest, cf. Diamond v. Charles, 476
> U.S. 54, 65-66, 106 S. Ct. 1697, 1705, 90 L.Ed.2d 48 (1986), let alone an
> interest that can justify invading the houses, hearts, and minds of citizens
> who choose to live their lives differently.”  23
34\. Justice Stevens, also in a powerfully worded dissent, specifically stated
that the protection of privacy extends to intimate choices made by unmarried
as well as married persons.
35\. It took the United States 17 years to set aside this view of the law and
to accept the dissenting judgments in Bowers (supra).
36\. In Lawrence v. Texas, 539 U.S. 558 (2003), by a majority of 6:3, Justice
Anthony Kennedy, speaking for the majority, set aside the judgment in Bowers
(supra), accepting that the dissenting judgments in that case were correct. In
a tilt at the history analysis of the majority judgment in Bowers (supra), the
Court found that earlier sodomy laws were not directed at homosexuals at
large, but instead sought to prohibit non-procreative sexual activity more
generally, and were not enforced against consenting adults acting in private.
After citing from Planned Parenthood of Southeastern Pa. v. Casey (“Casey”),
505 U.S. 833 (1992), the majority held – “our obligation is to define the
liberty of all, not to mandate our own moral code.” The majority judgment then
referred to a Model  24 Penal Code that the American Law Institute took out in
1955, making it clear that it did not provide for criminal penalties for
consensual same-sex relationships conducted in private. The judgment then went
on to refer to the Wolfenden Committee Report and the Sexual Offences Act,1967
in the United Kingdom and referred to the European Court’s decision in Dudgeon
v. United Kingdom, 45 Eur. Ct. H. R. (1981). It then referred to Romer v.
Evans (“Romer”), 517 U.S. 620 (1996), where the Court struck down a class-
based legislation which deprived homosexuals of State anti-discrimination laws
as a violation of the Equal Protection Clause. The majority then found that
the 1986 decision of Bowers (supra), had “sustained serious erosion” through
their recent decisions in Casey (supra) and Romer (supra), and had, therefore,
to be revisited.5 Justice 5The majority’s decision echoes what had happened
earlier in what is referred to as the celebrated flag salute case, namely,
West Virginia State Board of Education v. Barnette, 319 U.S. 624 (1943). The
U.S. Supreme Court had overruled its recent judgment in Minersville School
District v. Gobitis, 310 U.S. 586 (1940). Justice Jackson speaking for the
majority of the Court found:-
> “The freedom asserted by these appellees does not bring them into collision
> with rights asserted by any other individual. It is such conflicts which
> most frequently require intervention of the State to determine where the
> rights of one end and those of another begin. But the refusal of these
> persons to participate in the ceremony does not interfere with or deny
> rights of others to do so. Nor is there any question in this case that their
> behavior is peaceable and orderly.” The learned Judge then went on to find:
> “The very purpose of a Bill of Rights was to withdraw certain subjects from
> the vicissitudes of political controversy, to place them beyond the reach of
> majorities and officials and to establish them as legal principles to be
> applied by the courts. One's right to life, liberty, and property, to free
> speech, a free press, freedom of worship and  25 O’Connor concurred in the
> judgment but side-stepped rather than overruled Bowers (supra). Justice
> Scalia, with whom the Chief Justice and Justice Thomas joined, found no
> reason to undo the Bowers (supra) verdict stating that stare decisis should
> carry the day. An interesting passage in Justice Scalia’s judgment reads as
> follows:-
> “Let me be clear that I have nothing against homosexuals, or any other
> group, promoting their agenda through normal democratic means. Social
> perceptions of sexual and other morality change over time, and every group
> has the right to persuade its fellow citizens that its view of such matters
> is the best. That homosexuals have achieved some success in that enterprise
> is attested to by the fact that Texas is one of the few remaining States
> that criminalize private, consensual homosexual acts. But persuading one’s
> fellow citizens is one thing, and imposing one’s views in absence of
> democratic majority will is something else. I would no more require a State
> to criminalize homosexual acts—or, for that matter, display any moral
> disapprobation of them—than I would forbid it to do so. What Texas has
> chosen to do is well within the range of traditional democratic action, and
> its hand should not be stayed through the invention of a brand-new
> “constitutional right” by a Court that is impatient of democratic change. It
> is indeed true that “later generations can see that laws once assembly, and
> other fundamental rights may not be submitted to vote; they depend on the
> outcome of no elections.” And finally, it was held:-
> “If there is any fixed star in our constitutional constellation, it is that
> no official, high or petty, can prescribe what shall be orthodox in
> politics, nationalism, religion, or other matters of opinion or force
> citizens to confess by word or act their faith therein. If there are any
> circumstances which permit an exception, they do not now occur to us.”  26
> thought necessary and proper in fact serve only to oppress,” [ante, at 579];
> and when that happens, later generations can repeal those laws. But it is
> the premise of our system that those judgments are to be made by the people,
> and not imposed by a governing caste that knows best.”
> 37\. Before coming to our own judgments, we may quickly survey some of the
> judgments of the courts of other democratic nations. The European Community
> decisions, beginning with Dudgeon v. United Kingdom (supra) and continuing
> with Norris v. Ireland, Application no. 10581/83, and Modinos v.
Cyprus, 16 EHRR 485 (1993), have all found provisions similar to Section 377
to be violative of Article 8 of the European Human Rights Convention, 1948 in
which everyone has the right to respect for his private and family life, his
home and his correspondence, and no interference can be made with these rights
unless the law is necessary in a democratic society inter alia for the
prevention of disorder or crime, for the protection of health or morals, or
for the protection of the rights and freedoms of others.
38\. In El-Al Israel Airlines Ltd. v. Jonathan Danielwitz, H.C.J. 721/94, the
Supreme Court of Israel, speaking through  27 Barak, J., recognized a same-sex
relationship so that a male companion could be treated as being a companion
for the receipt of a free or discounted aeroplane ticket. The Court held:-
> “14.….The principle of equality demands that the existence of a rule that
> treats people differently is justified by the nature and substance of the
> issue. The principle of equality therefore presumes the existence of
> objective reasons that justify a difference (a distinction, dissimilarity).
> Discrimination — which is the opposite of equality — exists therefore in
> those situations where a different law for people who are (de facto)
> different from one another is based on reasons that are insufficient to
> justify a distinction between them in a free and democratic society. In
> Justice Or’s words, discrimination is ‘different treatment without an
> objective justification’ (Hoppert v. ‘Yad VaShem’ Holocaust Martyrs and
> Heroes Memorial Authority [12], at p. 360). President Agranat discussed this
> and pointed out:
> ‘The principle of equality, which is merely the opposite of discrimination
> and which, for reasons of justice and fairness, the law of every democratic
> country aspires to achieve, means that people must be treated equally for a
> particular purpose, when no real differences that are relevant to this
> purpose exist between them. If they are not treated equally, we have a case
> of discrimination. However, if the difference or differences between
> different people are relevant for the purpose under discussion, it is a
> permitted distinction to treat them differently for that purpose, provided
> that  28 those differences justify this. In this context, the concept of
> “equality” therefore means “relevant equality”, and it requires, with regard
> to the purpose under discussion, “equality of treatment” for those persons
> in this state. By contrast, it will be a permitted distinction if the
> different treatment of different persons derives from their being for the
> purpose of the treatment, in a state of relevant inequality, just as it will
> be discrimination if it derives from their being in a state of inequality
> that is not relevant to the purpose of the treatment’ (FH 10/69 Boronovski
> v. Chief Rabbis [16], at p. 35).
> Therefore, a particular law will create discrimination when two individuals,
> who are different from one another (factual inequality), are treated
> differently by the law, even though the factual difference between them does
> not justify different treatment in the circumstances. Discrimination is
> therefore based on the factors of arbitrariness, injustice and
> unreasonableness.
XXX
17\. We have seen, therefore, that giving a benefit to a (permanent) employee
for a spouse or recognized companion of the opposite sex and not giving the
same benefit for a same-sex companion amounts to a violation of equality. What
is the nature of this discrimination? Indeed, all discrimination is
prohibited, but among the different kinds of discrimination, there are varying
degrees. The severity of the discrimination is determined by the severity of
the violation of the principle of equality. Thus, for example, we consider
discrimination on the basis of race, religion, nationality, language, ethnic
group and age to be particularly serious. In  29 this framework, the Israeli
legal system attaches great importance to the need to guarantee equality
between the sexes and to prevent discrimination on the basis of sex (see HCJ
153/87 Shakdiel v.
Minister of Religious Affairs [19]; Poraz v. Mayor of Tel Aviv-Jaffa [6]).”
(Emphasis supplied)
39\. An instructive recent judgment from Trinidad and Tobago in Jason Jones v.
Attorney General of Trinidad and Tobago, Claim No. CV 2017-00720, followed our
judgment in Puttaswamy (supra) in order to strike down Section 13 of the
Sexual Offences Act, 1986 on the ground that the State cannot criminalise
sexual relations of the same sex between consenting adults. The court
concluded:-
> “168. Having regard to the evidence and submissions before this court on all
> sides, there is no cogent evidence that the legislative objective is
> sufficiently important to justify limiting the claimant’s rights. Mr.
> Hosein’s stated objectives of: 168.1. Maintaining traditional family and
> values that represent society;
> 168.2. Preserving the legislation as it is and clarifying the law; and
> 168.3. Extending the offence in section 16 to women and reduce it to serious
> indecency from gross indecency;
> do not counterbalance the claimant’s limit of his fundamental right of which
> he has given evidence.
30
Instead, the court accepts the claimant’s position that the law as it stands
is not sufficiently important to justify limiting his fundamental rights and
that he has proven it on a balance of probabilities.”
40\. To similar effect is the judgment of the High Court of Fiji in Dhirendra
Nadan v. State, Case No. HAA0085 of 2005, where a Section similar to Section
377 was held to be inconsistent with the constitutional right of privacy and
invalid to the extent that the law criminalises acts constituting private
consensual sexual conduct “against the course of nature” between adults.
41\. The South African Supreme Court, by a decision of 1999 in The National
Coalition for Gay and Lesbian Equality v. The Minister of Home Affairs, Case
CCT 10/99, after referring to various judgments of other courts, also found a
similar section to be inconsistent with the fundamental rights under its
Constitution.
42\. Another important decision is that of the United Nations Human Rights
Committee in Toonen v. Australia, Communication No. 488/1992, U.N. Doc
CCPR/C/50/D/488/1992 (1994), dated 31.03.1994. The Committee was called upon
to determine whether Mr. Nicholas  31 Toonen, who resided in the state of
Tasmania, had been the victim of arbitrary interference with his privacy, and
whether he had been discriminated against on the basis of his sexual
orientation of being a homosexual. The Committee found:-
> “8.2 Inasmuch as Article 17 is concerned, it is undisputed that adult
> consensual sexual activity in private is covered by the concept of
> “privacy”, and that Mr. Toonen is actually and currently affected by the
> continued existence of the Tasmanian laws. The Committee considers that
> Sections 122 (a), (c) and 123 of the Tasmanian Criminal Code “interfere”
> with the author's privacy, even if these provisions have not been enforced
> for a decade. In this context, it notes that the policy of the Department of
> Public Prosecutions not to initiate criminal proceedings in respect of
> private homosexual conduct does not amount to a guarantee that no actions
> will be brought against homosexuals in the future, particularly in the light
> of undisputed statements of the Director of Public Prosecutions of Tasmania
> in 1988 and those of members of the Tasmanian Parliament. The continued
> existence of the challenged provisions therefore continuously and directly
> “interferes” with the author's privacy.
8.3 The prohibition against private homosexual behaviour is provided for by
law, namely, Sections 122 and 123 of the Tasmanian Criminal Code. As to
whether it may be deemed arbitrary, the Committee recalls that pursuant to its
General Comment 16 on article 17, the "introduction of the concept of
arbitrariness is intended to guarantee that even interference provided for by
the law should be in accordance with the provisions, aims and objectives of
the Covenant and should be, in any event, reasonable in the circumstances”.(4)
The  32 Committee interprets the requirement of reasonableness to imply that
any interference with privacy must be proportional to the end sought and be
necessary in the circumstances of any given case.
XXX 8.5 As far as the public health argument of the Tasmanian authorities is
concerned, the Committee notes that the criminalization of homosexual
practices cannot be considered a reasonable means or proportionate measure to
achieve the aim of preventing the spread of AIDS/HIV. The Australian
Government observes that statutes criminalizing homosexual activity tend to
impede public health programmes “by driving underground many of the people at
the risk of infection”. Criminalization of homosexual activity thus would
appear to run counter to the implementation of effective education programmes
in respect of the HIV/AIDS prevention. Secondly, the Committee notes that no
link has been shown between the continued criminalization of homosexual
activity and the effective control of the spread of the HIV/AIDS virus.
XXX 8.7 The State party has sought the Committee's guidance as to whether
sexual orientation may be considered an “other status” for the purposes of
article 26. The same issue could arise under article 2, paragraph 1, of the
Covenant. The Committee confines itself to noting, however, that in its view
the reference to "sex" in articles 2, paragraph 1, and 26 is to be taken as
including sexual orientation. XXX
10\. Under article 2(3)(a) of the Covenant, the author, victim of a violation
of articles 17, paragraph 1, juncto 2, paragraph 1, of the Covenant, is
entitled to a remedy. In the opinion of the Committee, an  33 effective remedy
would be the repeal of Sections 122(a), (c) and 123 of the Tasmanian Criminal
Code.”
43\. As a result of these findings, the Australian Parliament, on 19.12.1994,
passed the Human Rights (Sexual Conduct) Act, 1994, Section 4 of which reads
as under:-
> “4. Arbitrary interferences with privacy (1) Sexual conduct involving only
> consenting adults acting in private is not to be subject, by or under any
> law of the Commonwealth, a State or a Territory, to any arbitrary
> interference with privacy within the meaning of Article 17 of the
> International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights.
(2) For the purposes of this section, an adult is a person who is 18 years old
or more.” Recent Judgments of this Court
44\. Anuj Garg and Ors. v. Hotel Association of India and Ors., (2008) 3 SCC
1, is an important decision of this Court, which dealt with the constitutional
validity of another pre- constitution enactment, namely, Section 30 of the
Punjab Excise Act of 1914, which prohibited employment of any woman in any
part of premises in which liquor is consumed by the public. Sinha, J. adverted
to the fact that when the original  34 Act was enacted, the concept of
equality between the two sexes was unknown. The Constitution changed all that
when it enacted Articles 14 and 15. What is of importance is that when
discrimination is made between two sets of persons, the classification must be
founded on some rational criteria having regard to the societal conditions as
they exist presently, and not as they existed in the early 20th century or
even earlier. This was felicitously stated by the learned Judge as follows:-
> “7. The Act is a pre-constitutional legislation. Although it is saved in
> terms of Article 372 of the Constitution, challenge to its validity on the
> touchstone of Articles 14, 15 and 19 of the Constitution of India, is
> permissible in law. While embarking on the questions raised, it may be
> pertinent to know that a statute although could have been held to be a valid
> piece of legislation keeping in view the societal condition of those times,
> but with the changes occurring therein both in the domestic as also
> international arena, such a law can also be declared invalid.
> 8\. In John Vallamattom v. Union of India, (2003) 6 SCC 611, this Court,
> while referring to an amendment made in UK in relation to a provision which
> was in pari materia with Section 118 of Indian Succession Act, observed (SCC
> p. 624, para 28):
> “28…The constitutionality of a provision, it is trite, will have to be
> judged keeping in view the interpretative changes of the statute affected by
> passage of time.”  35 Referring to the changing legal scenario and having
> regard to the Declaration on the Right to Development adopted by the World
> Conference on Human Rights as also Article 18 of the United Nations Covenant
> on Civil and Political Rights, 1966, it was held (John Vallamattom case, SCC
> p.
> 625, para 33):
> “33. It is trite that having regard to Article 13(1) of the Constitution,
> the constitutionality of the impugned legislation is required to be
> considered on the basis of laws existing on 26-1-1950, but while doing so
> the court is not precluded from taking into consideration the subsequent
> events which have taken place thereafter. It is further trite that the law
> although may be constitutional when enacted but with passage of time the
> same may be held to be unconstitutional in view of the changed situation.”
> XXX
> 26\. When a discrimination is sought to be made on the purported ground of
> classification, such classification must be founded on a rational criteria.
The criteria which in absence of any constitutional provision and, it will
bear repetition to state, having regard to the societal conditions as they
prevailed in early 20th century, may not be a rational criteria in the 21st
century. In the early 20th century, the hospitality sector was not open to
women in general. In the last 60 years, women in India have gained entry in
all spheres of public life. They have also been representing people at grass
root democracy. They are now employed as drivers of heavy transport vehicles,
conductors of service carriages, pilots, et. al. Women can be seen to be
occupying Class IV posts to the post of a Chief Executive Officer of a
Multinational Company. They  36 are now widely accepted both in police as also
army services.”
45\. The Court went on to hold that “proportionality” should be a standard
capable of being called reasonable in a modern democratic society (See
paragraph 36).
In a significant paragraph, the learned Judge held:-
> “43. Instead of prohibiting women employment in the bars altogether the
> State should focus on factoring in ways through which unequal consequences
> of sex differences can be eliminated. It is the State’s duty to ensure
> circumstances of safety which inspire confidence in women to discharge the
> duty freely in accordance to the requirements of the profession they choose
> to follow. Any other policy inference (such as the one embodied under
> Section 30) from societal conditions would be oppressive on the women and
> against the privacy rights.”
46\. The learned Judge then went on to further hold that the standard of
judicial scrutiny of legislations, which on their face effect discrimination,
is as follows:-
> “46. It is to be borne in mind that legislations with pronounced “protective
> discrimination” aims, such as this one, potentially serve as double-edged
> swords. Strict scrutiny test should be employed while assessing the
> implications of this variety of legislations. Legislation should not be only
> 37 assessed on its proposed aims but rather on the implications and the
> effects. The impugned legislation suffers from incurable fixations of
> stereotype morality and conception of sexual role. The perspective thus
> arrived at is outmoded in content and stifling in means.
> 47\. No law in its ultimate effect should end up perpetuating the oppression
> of women. Personal freedom is a fundamental tenet which cannot be
> compromised in the name of expediency until and unless there is a compelling
> State purpose. Heightened level of scrutiny is the normative threshold for
> judicial review in such cases.”
47\. Finally, the Court held:-
> “50. The test to review such a protective discrimination statute would
> entail a two-pronged scrutiny:
> (a) the legislative interference (induced by sex discriminatory legislation
> in the instant case) should be justified in principle,
> (b) the same should be proportionate in measure.
> 51\. The Court’s task is to determine whether the measures furthered by the
> State in the form of legislative mandate, to augment the legitimate aim of
> protecting the interests of women are proportionate to the other bulk of
> well-settled gender norms such as autonomy, equality of opportunity, right
> to privacy, et al. The bottomline in this behalf would be a functioning
> modern democratic society which ensures freedom to pursue varied
> opportunities and options without discriminating on the basis of sex, race,
> caste or any other like basis.
38
In fine, there should be a reasonable relationship of proportionality between
the means used and the aim pursued.”
48\. The Section which had been struck down by the High Court was held to be
arbitrary and unreasonable by this Court as well.
49\. Close on the heels of this Court’s judgment in Suresh Kumar Koushal
(supra) is this Court’s judgment in NALSA (supra). In this case, the Court had
to grapple with the trauma, agony and pain of the members of the transgender
community. The Court referred to Section 377 in the following words:
> “19. Section 377 IPC found a place in the Penal Code, 1860, prior to the
> enactment of the Criminal Tribes Act that criminalised all penile non-
> vaginal sexual acts between persons, including anal sex and oral sex, at a
> time when transgender persons were also typically associated with the
> proscribed sexual practices. Reference may be made to the judgment of the
> Allahabad High Court in Queen Empress v. Khairati, ILR (1884) 6 All 204,
> wherein a transgender person was arrested and prosecuted under Section 377
> on the suspicion that he was a “habitual sodomite” and was later acquitted
> on appeal. In that case, while acquitting him, the Sessions Judge stated as
> follows: (ILR pp. 204-05) “… ‘This case relates to a person named Khairati,
> over whom the police seem to have exercised some sort of supervision,
> whether strictly regular or not, as a  39 eunuch. The man is not a eunuch in
> the literal sense, but he was called for by the police when on a visit to
> his village, and was found singing dressed as a woman among the women of a
> certain family.
> Having been subjected to examination by the Civil Surgeon (and a subordinate
> medical man), he is shown to have the characteristic mark of a habitual
> catamite—the distortion of the orifice of the anus into the shape of a
> trumpet— and also to be affected with syphilis in the same region in a
> manner which distinctly points to unnatural intercourse within the last few
> months.’” Even though, he was acquitted on appeal, this case would
> demonstrate that Section 377, though associated with specific sexual acts,
> highlighted certain identities, including hijras and was used as an
> instrument of harassment and physical abuse against hijras and transgender
> persons.”
50\. The Court went on to explain the concepts of gender identity and sexual
orientation, and relied heavily upon Yogyakarta Principles on the Application
of International Human Rights Law in Relation to Sexual Orientation and Gender
Identity. The Court then went on to hold:
> “60. The principles discussed hereinbefore on TGs and the international
> conventions, including Yogyakarta Principles, which we have found not
> inconsistent with the various fundamental rights guaranteed under the Indian
> Constitution, must be recognised and followed, which has sufficient legal
> and historical justification in our country.”  40
51\. Insofar as Articles 15 and 16 of the Constitution were concerned, the
Court held:
> “66. Articles 15 and 16 sought to prohibit discrimination on the basis of
> sex, recognising that sex discrimination is a historical fact and needs to
> be addressed. The Constitution-makers, it can be gathered, gave emphasis to
> the fundamental right against sex discrimination so as to prevent the direct
> or indirect attitude to treat people differently, for the reason of not
> being in conformity with stereotypical generalisations of binary genders.
> Both gender and biological attributes constitute distinct components of sex.
> The biological characteristics, of course, include genitals, chromosomes and
> secondary sexual features, but gender attributes include one's self-image,
> the deep psychological or emotional sense of sexual identity and character.
> The discrimination on the ground of “sex” under Articles 15 and 16,
> therefore, includes discrimination on the ground of gender identity. The
> expression “sex” used in Articles 15 and 16 is not just limited to
> biological sex of male or female, but intended to include people who
> consider themselves to be neither male nor female.”
52\. Insofar as Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution and transgenders were
concerned, the Court held:
> “72. Gender identity, therefore, lies at the core of one's personal
> identity, gender expression and presentation and, therefore, it will have to
> be protected under Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution of India. A
> transgender's personality could be expressed by the transgender's behaviour
> and presentation. State cannot prohibit, restrict or  41 interfere with a
> transgender's expression of such personality, which reflects that inherent
> personality. Often the State and its authorities either due to ignorance or
> otherwise fail to digest the innate character and identity of such persons.
> We, therefore, hold that values of privacy, self-identity, autonomy and
> personal integrity are fundamental rights guaranteed to members of the
> transgender community under Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution of India
> and the State is bound to protect and recognise those rights.”
53\. In a significant paragraph relating to the personal autonomy of an
individual, this Court held:
> “75. Article 21, as already indicated, guarantees the protection of
> “personal autonomy” of an individual. In Anuj Garg v. Hotel Assn. of India
> [(2008) 3 SCC 1] (SCC p. 15, paras 34-35), this Court held that personal
> autonomy includes both the negative right of not to be subject to
> interference by others and the positive right of individuals to make
> decisions about their life, to express themselves and to choose which
> activities to take part in. Self-determination of gender is an integral part
> of personal autonomy and self-expression and falls within the realm of
> personal liberty guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution of India.”
54\. The conclusion therefore was:-
> “83. We, therefore, conclude that discrimination on the basis of sexual
> orientation or gender identity includes any discrimination, exclusion,
> restriction or preference, which has the effect of nullifying or transposing
> equality by the law or the equal protection of laws guaranteed under our  42
> Constitution, and hence we are inclined to give various directions to
> safeguard the constitutional rights of the members of the TG community.”
55\. Dr. A.K. Sikri, J., in a separate concurring judgment, spoke of the
fundamental and universal principle of the right of choice given to every
individual, which is an inseparable part of human rights. He then went on to
hold:-
> “116.1. Though in the past TGs in India were treated with great respect,
> that does not remain the scenario any longer. Attrition in their status was
> triggered with the passing of the Criminal Tribes Act, 1871 which deemed the
> entire community of hijra persons as innately “criminal” and “adapted to the
> systematic commission of non-bailable offences”. This dogmatism and
> indoctrination of the Indian people with aforesaid presumption, was totally
> capricious and nefarious. There could not have been more harm caused to this
> community with the passing of the aforesaid brutal legislation during the
> British Regime with the vicious and savage mind- set. To add insult to the
> irreparable injury caused, Section 377 of the Penal Code was misused and
> abused as there was a tendency, in the British period, to arrest and
> prosecute TG persons under Section 377 merely on suspicion. To undergo this
> sordid historical harm caused to TGs of India, there is a need for incessant
> efforts with effervescence.”
56\. And in paragraphs 125 and 129, he outlined the role of our Court as
follows:-
43 “125. The role of the Court is to understand the central purpose and theme
of the Constitution for the welfare of the society. Our Constitution, like the
law of the society, is a living organism. It is based on a factual and social
reality that is constantly changing. Sometimes a change in the law precedes
societal change and is even intended to stimulate it. Sometimes, a change in
the law is the result in the social reality. When we discuss about the rights
of TGs in the constitutional context, we find that in order to bring about
complete paradigm shift, the law has to play more predominant role. As TGs in
India, are neither male nor female, treating them as belonging to either of
the aforesaid categories, is the denial of these constitutional rights. It is
the denial of social justice which in turn has the effect of denying political
and economic justice.
XXX
129\. As we have pointed out above, our Constitution inheres liberal and
substantive democracy with the rule of law as an important and fundamental
pillar. It has its own internal morality based on dignity and equality of all
human beings. The rule of law demands protection of individual human rights.
Such rights are to be guaranteed to each and every human being. These TGs,
even though insignificant in numbers, are still human beings and therefore
they have every right to enjoy their human rights.”
57\. In an unusual final order, the Court declared:-
> “135. We, therefore, declare:
> 135.1. Hijras, eunuchs, apart from binary genders, be treated as “third
> gender” for the purpose of safeguarding their rights under Part III of our
> Constitution and the laws made by Parliament and the State Legislature.
44
135.2. Transgender persons' right to decide their self-identified gender is
also upheld and the Centre and State Governments are directed to grant legal
recognition of their gender identity such as male, female or as third gender.
135.3. We direct the Centre and the State Governments to take steps to treat
them as Socially and Educationally Backward Classes of citizens and extend all
kinds of reservation in cases of admission in educational institutions and for
public appointments.
135.4. The Centre and State Governments are directed to operate separate HIV
serosurveillance centres since hijras/transgenders face several sexual health
issues.
135.5. The Centre and State Governments should seriously address the problems
being faced by hijras/transgenders such as fear, shame, gender dysphoria,
social pressure, depression, suicidal tendencies, social stigma, etc. and any
insistence for SRS for declaring one's gender is immoral and illegal.
135.6. The Centre and State Governments should take proper measures to provide
medical care to TGs in the hospitals and also provide them separate public
toilets and other facilities.
135.7. The Centre and State Governments should also take steps for framing
various social welfare schemes for their betterment.
135.8. The Centre and State Governments should take steps to create public
awareness so that TGs will feel that they are also part and parcel of the
social life and be not treated as untouchables. 135.9. The Centre and the
State Governments should also take measures to regain their respect  45 and
place in the society which once they enjoyed in our cultural and social life.”
58\. Puttaswamy (supra) is the next important nail in the coffin of section
377 insofar as it pertains to consensual sex between same-sex adults. In this
judgment, Chandrachud, J. referred approvingly to the NALSA (supra) judgment
in paragraph 96 and went on to hold that privacy is intrinsic to freedom and
liberty. In referring to Suresh Kumar Koushal (supra), Chandrachud, J.
referred to the judgment as “another discordant note” which directly bears
upon the evolution of constitutional jurisprudence on the right to privacy.
Chandrachud, J. went on to castigate the judgment in Suresh Kumar Koushal
(supra), and held:-
> “144. Neither of the above reasons can be regarded as a valid constitutional
> basis for disregarding a claim based on privacy under Article 21 of the
> Constitution. That “a miniscule fraction of the country's population
> constitutes lesbians, gays, bisexuals or transgenders” (as observed in the
> judgment of this Court) is not a sustainable basis to deny the right to
> privacy. The purpose of elevating certain rights to the stature of
> guaranteed fundamental rights is to insulate their exercise from the disdain
> of majorities, whether legislative or popular. The guarantee of
> constitutional rights does not depend upon their exercise being favourably
> regarded by majoritarian opinion. The test of  46 popular acceptance does
> not furnish a valid basis to disregard rights which are conferred with the
> sanctity of constitutional protection. Discrete and insular minorities face
> grave dangers of discrimination for the simple reason that their views,
> beliefs or way of life does not accord with the “mainstream”. Yet in a
> democratic Constitution founded on the Rule of Law, their rights are as
> sacred as those conferred on other citizens to protect their freedoms and
> liberties. Sexual orientation is an essential attribute of privacy.
Discrimination against an individual on the basis of sexual orientation is
deeply offensive to the dignity and self-worth of the individual. Equality
demands that the sexual orientation of each individual in society must be
protected on an even platform. The right to privacy and the protection of
sexual orientation lie at the core of the fundamental rights guaranteed by
Articles 14, 15 and 21 of the Constitution.
145\. The view in Koushal [Suresh Kumar Koushal v. Naz Foundation, (2014) 1
SCC 1 : (2013) 4 SCC (Cri) 1] that the High Court had erroneously relied upon
international precedents “in its anxiety to protect the so-called rights of
LGBT persons” is similarly, in our view, unsustainable. The rights of the
lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender population cannot be construed to be
“so-called rights”. The expression “so-called” seems to suggest the exercise
of a liberty in the garb of a right which is illusory. This is an
inappropriate construction of the privacy-based claims of the LGBT population.
Their rights are not “so-called” but are real rights founded on sound
constitutional doctrine. They inhere in the right to life. They dwell in
privacy and dignity. They constitute the essence of liberty and freedom.
Sexual orientation is an essential component of identity. Equal protection
demands protection of the identity of every individual without discrimination.
47
146\. The decision in Koushal [Suresh Kumar Koushal v. Naz Foundation, (2014)
1 SCC 1 :
(2013) 4 SCC (Cri) 1] presents a de minimis rationale when it asserts that
there have been only two hundred prosecutions for violating Section 377. The
de minimis hypothesis is misplaced because the invasion of a fundamental right
is not rendered tolerable when a few, as opposed to a large number of persons,
are subjected to hostile treatment. The reason why such acts of hostile
discrimination are constitutionally impermissible is because of the chilling
effect which they have on the exercise of the fundamental right in the first
place. For instance, pre-publication restraints such as censorship are
vulnerable because they discourage people from exercising their right to free
speech because of the fear of a restraint coming into operation. The chilling
effect on the exercise of the right poses a grave danger to the unhindered
fulfilment of one's sexual orientation, as an element of privacy and dignity.
The chilling effect is due to the danger of a human being subjected to social
opprobrium or disapproval, as reflected in the punishment of crime. Hence the
Koushal [Suresh Kumar Koushal v. Naz Foundation, (2014) 1 SCC 1 : (2013) 4 SCC
(Cri) 1] rationale that prosecution of a few is not an index of violation is
flawed and cannot be accepted. Consequently, we disagree with the manner in
which Koushal [Suresh Kumar Koushal v. Naz Foundation, (2014) 1 SCC 1 : (2013)
4 SCC (Cri) 1] has dealt with the privacy-dignity based claims of LGBT persons
on this aspect.
147\. Since the challenge to Section 377 is pending consideration before a
larger Bench of this Court, we would leave the constitutional validity to be
decided in an appropriate proceeding.”  48
59\. In an important paragraph, the learned Judge finally held:
> “323. Privacy includes at its core the preservation of personal intimacies,
> the sanctity of family life, marriage, procreation, the home and sexual
> orientation. Privacy also connotes a right to be left alone. Privacy
> safeguards individual autonomy and recognises the ability of the individual
> to control vital aspects of his or her life. Personal choices governing a
> way of life are intrinsic to privacy. Privacy protects heterogeneity and
> recognises the plurality and diversity of our culture. While the legitimate
> expectation of privacy may vary from the intimate zone to the private zone
> and from the private to the public arenas, it is important to underscore
> that privacy is not lost or surrendered merely because the individual is in
> a public place. Privacy attaches to the person since it is an essential
> facet of the dignity of the human being.”
60\. Nariman, J., in his judgment, which was concurred in by three other
learned Judges, recognized the privacy of choice which protects an
individual’s autonomy over fundamental personal choices as follows:-
> “521. In the Indian context, a fundamental right to privacy would cover at
> least the following three aspects:
> • Privacy that involves the person i.e. when there is some invasion by the
> State of a person's rights relatable to his physical body, such as the right
> to move freely;
• Informational privacy which does not deal with a person's body but deals
with a person's mind, and therefore recognises that an individual may have  49
control over the dissemination of material that is personal to him.
Unauthorised use of such information may, therefore lead to infringement of
this right; and • The privacy of choice, which protects an individual's
autonomy over fundamental personal choices.
For instance, we can ground physical privacy or privacy relating to the body
in Articles 19(1)(d) and
(e) read with Article 21; ground personal information privacy under Article
21; and the privacy of choice in Articles 19(1)(a) to (c), 20(3), 21 and 25.
The argument based on “privacy” being a vague and nebulous concept need not,
therefore, detain us.”
61\. Kaul, J., in a separate judgment, also joined Chandrachud, J. in
castigating Suresh Kumar Koushal’s judgment as follows:
> “647. There are two aspects of the opinion of Dr D.Y. Chandrachud, J., one
> of which is common to the opinion of Rohinton F. Nariman, J., needing
> specific mention. While considering the evolution of constitutional
> jurisprudence on the right to privacy he has referred to the judgment in
> Suresh Kumar Koushal v. Naz Foundation [Suresh Kumar Koushal v. Naz
> Foundation, (2014) 1 SCC 1 : (2013) 4 SCC (Cri) 1]. In the challenge laid to
> Section 377 of the Penal Code before the Delhi High Court, one of the
> grounds of challenge was that the said provision amounted to an infringement
> of the right to dignity and privacy. The Delhi High Court, inter alia,
> observed [Naz Foundation v. Govt. (NCT of Delhi), 2009 SCC OnLine Del 1762 :
> 2010 Cri LJ 94] that the right to live with dignity and the right to privacy
> both are recognised as dimensions of Article 21 of  50 the Constitution of
> India. The view of the High Court, however did not find favour with the
> Supreme Court and it was observed that only a miniscule fraction of the
> country's population constitutes lesbians, gays, bisexuals or transgenders
> and thus, there cannot be any basis for declaring the section ultra vires of
> provisions of Articles 14, 15 and 21 of the Constitution. The matter did not
> rest at this, as the issue of privacy and dignity discussed by the High
> Court was also observed upon. The sexual orientation even within the four
> walls of the house thus became an aspect of debate. I am in agreement with
> the view of Dr D.Y. Chandrachud, J., who in paras 144 to 146 of his
> judgment, states that the right to privacy cannot be denied, even if there
> is a miniscule fraction of the population which is affected. The
> majoritarian concept does not apply to constitutional rights and the courts
> are often called up on to take what may be categorised as a non-majoritarian
> view, in the check and balance of power envisaged under the Constitution of
> India.
One's sexual orientation is undoubtedly an attribute of privacy. The
observations made in Mosley v. News Group Papers Ltd. [Mosley v. News Group
Papers Ltd., 2008 EWHC 1777 (QB)], in a broader concept may be usefully
referred to:
> “130. … It is not simply a matter of personal privacy versus the public
> interest. The modern perception is that there is a public interest in
> respecting personal privacy. It is thus a question of taking account of
> conflicting public interest considerations and evaluating them according to
> increasingly well-recognised criteria.
131\. When the courts identify an infringement of a person's Article 8 rights,
and in particular in the context of his freedom to conduct his sex life and
51 personal relationships as he wishes, it is right to afford a remedy and to
vindicate that right. The only permitted exception is where there is a
countervailing public interest which in the particular circumstances is strong
enough to outweigh it; that is to say, because one at least of the established
“limiting principles” comes into play. Was it necessary and proportionate for
the intrusion to take place, for example, in order to expose illegal activity
or to prevent the public from being significantly misled by public claims
hitherto made by the individual concerned (as with Naomi Campbell's public
denials of drug-taking)? Or was it necessary because the information, in the
words of the Strasbourg Court in Von Hannover [Von Hannover v. Germany, (2004)
40 EHRR 1] at pp. 60 and 76, would make a contribution to “a debate of general
interest”? That is, of course, a very high test, it is yet to be determined
how far that doctrine will be taken in the courts of this jurisdiction in
relation to photography in public places. If taken literally, it would mean a
very significant change in what is permitted. It would have a profound effect
on the tabloid and celebrity culture to which we have become accustomed in
recent years.”
62\. Close upon the heels of these three judgments are three other important
recent decisions. In Common Cause v. Union of India, 2018 5 SCC 1, a case
dealing with euthanasia, Dipak Misra, C.J., states as under:-
52 “166. The purpose of saying so is only to highlight that the law must take
cognizance of the changing society and march in consonance with the developing
concepts. The need of the present has to be served with the interpretative
process of law. However, it is to be seen how much strength and sanction can
be drawn from the Constitution to consummate the changing ideology and convert
it into a reality. The immediate needs are required to be addressed through
the process of interpretation by the Court unless the same totally falls
outside the constitutional framework or the constitutional interpretation
fails to recognise such dynamism. The Constitution Bench in Gian Kaur [Gian
Kaur v. State of Punjab, (1996) 2 SCC 648 : 1996 SCC (Cri) 374], as stated
earlier, distinguishes attempt to suicide and abetment of suicide from
acceleration of the process of natural death which has commenced. The
authorities, we have noted from other jurisdictions, have observed the
distinctions between the administration of lethal injection or certain
medicines to cause painless death and non- administration of certain treatment
which can prolong the life in cases where the process of dying that has
commenced is not reversible or withdrawal of the treatment that has been given
to the patient because of the absolute absence of possibility of saving the
life. To explicate, the first part relates to an overt act whereas the second
one would come within the sphere of informed consent and authorised omission.
The omission of such a nature will not invite any criminal liability if such
action is guided by certain safeguards. The concept is based on non-
prolongation of life where there is no cure for the state the patient is in
and he, under no circumstances, would have liked to have such a degrading
state. The words “no cure” have to be understood to convey that the patient
remains in the same state of pain and suffering or the dying process is
delayed by means of taking recourse to  53 modern medical technology. It is a
state where the treating physicians and the family members know fully well
that the treatment is administered only to procrastinate the continuum of
breath of the individual and the patient is not even aware that he is
breathing. Life is measured by artificial heartbeats and the patient has to go
through this undignified state which is imposed on him. The dignity of life is
denied to him as there is no other choice but to suffer an avoidable
protracted treatment thereby thus indubitably casting a cloud and creating a
dent in his right to live with dignity and face death with dignity, which is a
preserved concept of bodily autonomy and right to privacy. In such a stage, he
has no old memories or any future hopes but he is in a state of misery which
nobody ever desires to have. Some may also silently think that death, the
inevitable factum of life, cannot be invited. To meet such situations, the
Court has a duty to interpret Article 21 in a further dynamic manner and it
has to be stated without any trace of doubt that the right to life with
dignity has to include the smoothening of the process of dying when the person
is in a vegetative state or is living exclusively by the administration of
artificial aid that prolongs the life by arresting the dignified and
inevitable process of dying. Here, the issue of choice also comes in. Thus
analysed, we are disposed to think that such a right would come within the
ambit of Article 21 of the Constitution.
L. Right of self-determination and individual autonomy
167\. Having dealt with the right to acceleration of the process of dying a
natural death which is arrested with the aid of modern innovative technology
as a part of Article 21 of the Constitution, it is necessary to address the
issues of right of self- determination and individual autonomy.
54
168\. John Rawls says that the liberal concept of autonomy focuses on choice
and likewise, self- determination is understood as exercised through the
process of choosing [Rawls, John, Political Liberalism, 32, 33 (New York:
Columbia University Press, 1993)]. The respect for an individual human being
and in particular for his right to choose how he should live his own life is
individual autonomy or the right of self-determination. It is the right
against non- interference by others, which gives a competent person who has
come of age the right to make decisions concerning his or her own life and
body without any control or interference of others. Lord Hoffman, in Reeves v.
Commr. of Police of the Metropolis [Reeves v. Commr. of Police of the
Metropolis, (2000) 1 AC 360 : (1993) 3 WLR 363 (HL)] has stated: (AC p. 369 B)
“… Autonomy means that every individual is sovereign over himself and cannot
be denied the right to certain kinds of behaviour, even if intended to cause
his own death.” XXX 202.8. An inquiry into Common Law jurisdictions reveals
that all adults with capacity to consent have the right of self-determination
and autonomy. The said rights pave the way for the right to refuse medical
treatment which has acclaimed universal recognition. A competent person who
has come of age has the right to refuse specific treatment or all treatment or
opt for an alternative treatment, even if such decision entails a risk of
death. The “Emergency Principle” or the “Principle of Necessity” has to be
given effect to only when it is not practicable to obtain the patient's
consent for treatment and his/her life is in danger. But where a patient has
already made a valid Advance Directive which is free from reasonable doubt and
specifying  55 that he/she does not wish to be treated, then such directive
has to be given effect to.”
63\. In the same case, Chandrachud J. went on to hold:
> “437. Under our Constitution, the inherent value which sanctifies life is
> the dignity of existence. Recognising human dignity is intrinsic to
> preserving the sanctity of life. Life is truly sanctified when it is lived
> with dignity. There exists a close relationship between dignity and the
> quality of life. For, it is only when life can be lived with a true sense of
> quality that the dignity of human existence is fully realised. Hence, there
> should be no antagonism between the sanctity of human life on the one hand
> and the dignity and quality of life on the other hand. Quality of life
> ensures dignity of living and dignity is but a process in realising the
> sanctity of life.
> 438\. Human dignity is an essential element of a meaningful existence. A
> life of dignity comprehends all stages of living including the final stage
> which leads to the end of life. Liberty and autonomy are essential
> attributes of a life of substance. It is liberty which enables an individual
> to decide upon those matters which are central to the pursuit of a
> meaningful existence. The expectation that the individual should not be
> deprived of his or her dignity in the final stage of life gives expression
> to the central expectation of a fading life: control over pain and suffering
> and the ability to determine the treatment which the individual should
> receive. When society assures to each individual a protection against being
> subjected to degrading treatment in the process of dying, it seeks to assure
> basic human dignity. Dignity ensures the sanctity of life.
The recognition afforded to the autonomy of the individual in matters relating
to end-of-life decisions  56 is ultimately a step towards ensuring that life
does not despair of dignity as it ebbs away.
XXX
441\. The protective mantle of privacy covers certain decisions that
fundamentally affect the human life cycle. [Richard Delgado, “Euthanasia
Reconsidered—The Choice of Death as an Aspect of the Right of Privacy”,
Arizona Law Review (1975), Vol. 17, at p. 474.] It protects the most personal
and intimate decisions of individuals that affect their life and development.
[Ibid.] Thus, choices and decisions on matters such as procreation,
contraception and marriage have been held to be protected. While death is an
inevitable end in the trajectory of the cycle of human life of individuals are
often faced with choices and decisions relating to death. Decisions relating
to death, like those relating to birth, sex, and marriage, are protected by
the Constitution by virtue of the right of privacy. The right to privacy
resides in the right to liberty and in the respect of autonomy. [T.L.
Beauchamp, “The Right to Privacy and the Right to Die”, Social Philosophy and
Policy (2000), Vol. 17, at p. 276.] The right to privacy protects autonomy in
making decisions related to the intimate domain of death as well as bodily
integrity. Few moments could be of as much importance as the intimate and
private decisions that we are faced regarding death. [Ibid.] Continuing
treatment against the wishes of a patient is not only a violation of the
principle of informed consent, but also of bodily privacy and bodily integrity
that have been recognised as a facet of privacy by this Court.”
64\. Similarly, in Shafin Jahan v. Asokan K.M., 2018 SCC Online 343, this
Court was concerned with the right of an adult  57 citizen to make her own
marital choice. The learned Chief Justice referred to Articles 19 and 21 of
the Constitution of India as follows:-
> “28. Thus, the pivotal purpose of the said writ is to see that no one is
> deprived of his/her liberty without sanction of law. It is the primary duty
> of the State to see that the said right is not sullied in any manner
> whatsoever and its sanctity is not affected by any kind of subterfuge. The
> role of the Court is to see that the detenue is produced before it, find out
> about his/her independent choice and see to it that the person is released
> from illegal restraint. The issue will be a different one when the detention
> is not illegal. What is seminal is to remember that the song of liberty is
> sung with sincerity and the choice of an individual is appositely respected
> and conferred its esteemed status as the Constitution guarantees. It is so
> as the expression of choice is a fundamental right under Articles 19 and 21
> of the Constitution, if the said choice does not transgress any valid legal
> framework. Once that aspect is clear, the enquiry and determination have to
> come to an end.
XXX
54\. It is obligatory to state here that expression of choice in accord with
law is acceptance of individual identity. Curtailment of that expression and
the ultimate action emanating therefrom on the conceptual structuralism of
obeisance to the societal will destroy the individualistic entity of a person.
The social values and morals have their space but they are not above the
constitutionally guaranteed freedom. The said freedom is both a constitutional
and a human right. Deprivation of that freedom which is ingrained in choice on
the plea of faith is impermissible. Faith of a person is intrinsic to  58
his/her meaningful existence. To have the freedom of faith is essential to
his/her autonomy; and it strengthens the core norms of the Constitution.
Choosing a faith is the substratum of individuality and sans it, the right of
choice becomes a shadow. It has to be remembered that the realization of a
right is more important than the conferment of the right. Such actualization
indeed ostracises any kind of societal notoriety and keeps at bay the
patriarchal supremacy. It is so because the individualistic faith and
expression of choice are fundamental for the fructification of the right.
Thus, we would like to call it indispensable preliminary condition.”
65\. In another recent judgment of a three-Judge Bench, in Shakti Vahini v.
Union of India, 2018 SCC Online SC 275, which dealt with honour killings, this
Court held:-
> “44. Honour killing guillotines individual liberty, freedom of choice and
> one's own perception of choice. It has to be sublimely borne in mind that
> when two adults consensually choose each other as life partners, it is a
> manifestation of their choice which is recognized under Articles 19 and 21
> of the Constitution. Such a right has the sanction of the constitutional law
> and once that is recognized, the said right needs to be protected and it
> cannot succumb to the conception of class honour or group thinking which is
> conceived of on some notion that remotely does not have any legitimacy.
45\. The concept of liberty has to be weighed and tested on the touchstone of
constitutional sensitivity, protection and the values it stands for. It is the
obligation of the Constitutional Courts as the sentinel on qui vive to
zealously guard the right to liberty of an individual as the dignified
existence of  59 an individual has an inseparable association with liberty.
Without sustenance of liberty, subject to constitutionally valid provisions of
law, the life of a person is comparable to the living dead having to endure
cruelty and torture without protest and tolerate imposition of thoughts and
ideas without a voice to dissent or record a disagreement. The fundamental
feature of dignified existence is to assert for dignity that has the spark of
divinity and the realization of choice within the parameters of law without
any kind of subjugation. The purpose of laying stress on the concepts of
individual dignity and choice within the framework of liberty is of paramount
importance. We may clearly and emphatically state that life and liberty sans
dignity and choice is a phenomenon that allows hollowness to enter into the
constitutional recognition of identity of a person.
46\. The choice of an individual is an inextricable part of dignity, for
dignity cannot be thought of where there is erosion of choice. True it is, the
same is bound by the principle of constitutional limitation but in the absence
of such limitation, none, we mean, no one shall be permitted to interfere in
the fructification of the said choice. If the right to express one's own
choice is obstructed, it would be extremely difficult to think of dignity in
its sanctified completeness. When two adults marry out of their volition, they
choose their path; they consummate their relationship; they feel that it is
their goal and they have the right to do so. And it can unequivocally be
stated that they have the right and any infringement of the said right is a
constitutional violation. The majority in the name of class or elevated honour
of clan cannot call for their presence or force their appearance as if they
are the monarchs of some indescribable era who have the power, authority and
final say to impose any sentence and determine the execution of the same in
the way they desire possibly harbouring the  60 notion that they are a law
unto themselves or they are the ancestors of Caesar or, for that matter, Louis
the XIV. The Constitution and the laws of this country do not countenance such
an act and, in fact, the whole activity is illegal and punishable as offence
under the criminal law.” Mental Healthcare Act, 2017
66\. Parliament is also alive to privacy interests and the fact that persons
of the same-sex who cohabit with each other are entitled to equal treatment.
67\. A recent enactment, namely the Mental Healthcare Act, 2017, throws a
great deal of light on recent parliamentary legislative understanding and
acceptance of constitutional values as reflected by this Court’s judgments.
Section 2(s) of the Act defines mental illness, which reads as under:
> “2(s) “mental illness” means a substantial disorder of thinking, mood,
> perception, orientation or memory that grossly impairs judgment, behaviour,
> capacity to recognise reality or ability to meet the ordinary demands of
> life, mental conditions associated with the abuse of alcohol and drugs, but
> does not include mental retardation which is a condition of arrested or
> incomplete development of mind of a person, specially characterised by
> subnormality of intelligence;”  61
68\. This definition throws to the winds all earlier misconceptions of mental
illness including the fact that same- sex couples who indulge in anal sex are
persons with mental illness. At one point of time, the thinking in Victorian
England and early on in America was that homosexuality was to be considered as
a mental disorder. The amicus curiae brief of the American Psychiatric
Association in support of the petitioners in Lawrence v. Texas (supra) has put
paid to this notion. This brief set out the research that has been done in
this area as follows:
> “D. The Recognition That Homosexuality Is Not A “Mental Disorder” The
> American mental health professions concluded more than a quarter-century ago
> that homosexuality is not a mental disorder. That conclusion was reached
> after decades of study of homosexuality by independent researchers, as well
> as numerous attempts by practitioners in the mental-health professions to
> effectuate a change in individuals’ sexual orientation. During the first
> half of the 20th century, many mental health professionals regarded
> homosexuality as a pathological condition, but that perspective reflected
> untested assumptions supported largely by clinical impressions of patients
> seeking therapy and individuals whose conduct brought them into the criminal
> justice system. See J.C. Gonsiorek, The Empirical Basis for the Demise of
> the Illness Model of Homosexuality, in Homosexuality: Research Implications
> for Public  62 Policy 115 (J.C. Gonsiorek & J.D. Weinrich eds., 1991). Those
> assumptions were not subjected to rigorous scientific scrutiny with
> nonclinical, nonincarcerated samples until the latter half of the century.
> Once the notion that homosexuality is linked to mental illness was
> empirically tested, it proved to be based on untenable assumptions and value
> judgments.
In one of the first rigorous examinations of the mental health status of
homosexuality, Dr. Evelyn Hooker administered a battery of standard
psychological tests to homosexual and heterosexual men who were matched for
age, IQ, and education. See Evelyn Hooker, The Adjustment of the Male Overt
Homosexual, 21 J. Projective Techniques 17- 31 (1957). None of the men was in
therapy at the time of the study. Based on the ratings of expert judges who
were kept unaware of the men’s sexual orientation, Hooker determined that
homosexual and heterosexual men could not be distinguished from one another on
the basis of the psychological testing, and that a similar majority of the two
groups appeared to be free of psychopathology. She concluded from her data
that homosexuality is not inherently associated with psychopathology and that
“homosexuality as a clinical entity does not exist.” Id. at 18-19. Hooker’s
findings were followed over the next two decades by numerous studies, using a
variety of research techniques, which similarly concluded that homosexuality
is not related to psychopathology or social maladjustment.
In 1973, in recognition that scientific data do not indicate that a homosexual
orientation is inherently associated with psychopathology, amicus American
Psychiatric Association’s Board of Trustees voted to remove homosexuality from
the Psychiatric Association’s Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental
Disorders. That resolution stated that “homosexuality per se implies no
impairment in  63 judgment, stability, reliability, or general social or
vocational capabilities.” Am. Psychiatric Ass’n, Position Statement on
Homosexuality and Civil Rights (Dec. 15, 1973), printed in 131 Am. J.
Psychiatry 497 (1974). That decision was upheld by a vote of the Psychiatric
Association’s membership the following year. After a thorough review of the
scientific evidence, amicus American Psychological Association adopted the
same position in 1975, and urged all mental health professionals to help
dispel the stigma of mental illness that had long been associated with
homosexual orientation. See Am. Psychol. Ass’n, Minutes of the Annual Meeting
of the Council of Representatives, 30 Am.
Psychologist 620, 633 (1975). Amicus National Association of Social Workers
(NASW) has adopted a similar policy. See NASW, Policy Statement on Lesbian and
Gay Issues (Aug. 1993) (approved by NASW Delegate Assembly), reprinted in
NASW, Social Work Speaks: NASW Policy Statements 162 (3d ed. 1994).
Of course, as is the case for heterosexuals, some homosexuals have mental
illnesses, psychological disturbances, or poor social adjustment. Gay men,
lesbians, and bisexuals also may be at somewhat greater risk for some kinds of
psychological problems because of stresses associated with the experiences of
social stigma and prejudice (see pp. 23-27, infra). But research conducted
over four decades has established that “homosexuality in and of itself bears
no necessary relationship to psychological adjustment.” The efforts to “cure”
homosexuality that were prevalent in earlier generations—which included
hypnosis, administration of hormones, aversive conditioning with electric
shock or nausea-inducing drugs, lobotomy, electroshock, and castration—are now
regarded by the mental-health professions as regrettable.”  64
69\. It also outlined the prejudice, discrimination and violence that has been
encountered by gay people, as follows:
> “A. Discrimination, Prejudice, And Violence Encountered By Gay People
> Lesbians and gay men in the United States encounter extensive prejudice,
> discrimination, and violence because of their sexual orientation. Intense
> prejudice against gay men and lesbians was widespread throughout much of the
> 20th century; public opinion studies routinely showed that, among large
> segments of the public, gay people were the target of strong antipathy.
> Although a shift in public opinion concerning homosexuality occurred in the
> 1990s, hostility toward gay men and lesbians remains common in contemporary
> American society. Prejudice against bisexuals appears to exist at comparable
> levels. Discrimination against gay people in employment and housing also
> appears to remain widespread.
> The severity of this anti-gay prejudice is reflected in the consistently
> high rate of anti-gay harassment and violence in American society. Numerous
> surveys indicate that verbal harassment and abuse are nearly universal
> experiences of gay people. Although physical violence is less common,
> substantial numbers of gay people report having experienced crimes against
> their person or property because of their sexual orientation. In 2001, the
> most recent year for which FBI statistics are available, there were 1,375
> reported bias motivated incidents against gay men, lesbians, and bisexuals.
That figure likely represents only a fraction of such crimes, because
reporting of hate crimes by law enforcement agencies is voluntary, the
thoroughness of police statistics differs widely  65 among jurisdictions, and
many victims do not report their experiences to police because they fear
further harassment or lack confidence that the assailants will be caught.
Although homosexuality is not a mental disorder, this societal prejudice
against gay men and lesbians can cause them real and substantial psychological
harm. Research indicates that experiencing rejection, discrimination, and
violence is associated with heightened psychological distress among gay men
and lesbians. These problems are exacerbated by the fact that, because of
anti-gay stigma, gay men and lesbians have less access to social support and
other resources that assist heterosexuals in coping with stress. Although many
gay men and lesbians learn to cope with the social stigma against
homosexuality, efforts to avoid that social stigma through attempts to conceal
or dissimulate sexual orientation can be seriously damaging to the
psychological well-being of gay people. Lesbians and gay men have been found
to manifest better mental health to the extent that they feel positively about
their sexual orientation and have integrated it into their lives through
“coming out” and participating in the gay community. Being able to disclose
one’s sexual orientation to others also increases the availability of social
support, which is crucial to mental health.”
70\. Expressing its approval of the position taken by the American Psychiatric
Association, the Indian Psychiatric Society in its recent Position Statement
on Homosexuality dated 02.07.2018 has stated:-
66 “In the opinion of the Indian Psychiatric Society (IPS) homosexuality is
not a psychiatric disorder. This is in line with the position of American
Psychiatric Association and The International Classification of Diseases of
the World health Organization which removed homosexuality from the list of
psychiatric disorders in 1973 and 1992 respectively.
The I.P.S recognizes same-sex sexuality as a normal variant of human sexuality
much like heterosexuality and bisexuality. There is no scientific evidence
that sexual orientation can be altered by any treatment and that any such
attempts may in fact lead to low self-esteem and stigmatization of the person.
The Indian Psychiatric Society further supports de- criminalization of
homosexual behavior.”
71\. The US Supreme Court, in its decision in Obergefell et al. v. Hodges,
Director, Ohio Department of Health, et al., 576 US (2015), also took note of
the enormous sufferings of homosexual persons in the time gap between Bowers
(supra) and Lawrence v. Texas (supra), in the following words:-
> “This is not the first time the Court has been asked to adopt a cautious
> approach to recognizing and protecting fundamental rights. In Bowers, a bare
> majority upheld a law criminalizing same-sex intimacy. See 478 U.S., at 186,
> 190–195. That approach might have been viewed as a cautious endorsement of
> the democratic process, which had only just begun to consider the rights of
> gays and lesbians. Yet, in effect, Bowers upheld state action  67 that
> denied gays and lesbians a fundamental right and caused them pain and
> humiliation. As evidenced by the dissents in that case, the facts and
> principles necessary to a correct holding were known to the Bowers Court.
> See id., at 199 (Blackmun, J., joined by Brennan, Marshall, and Stevens,
> JJ., dissenting); id., at 214 (Stevens, J., joined by Brennan and Marshall,
> JJ., dissenting). That is why Lawrence held Bowers was “not correct when it
> was decided.” 539 U.S., at 578. Although Bowers was eventually repudiated in
> Lawrence, men and women were harmed in the interim, and the substantial
> effects of these injuries no doubt lingered long after Bowers was overruled.
> Dignitary wounds cannot always be healed with the stroke of a pen.”
72\. The present definition of mental illness in the 2017 Parliamentary
statute makes it clear that homosexuality is not considered to be a mental
illness. This is a major advance in our law which has been recognized by the
Parliament itself. Further, this is buttressed by Section 3 of the Act which
reads as follows:-
> “3. Determination of Mental Illness. (1) Mental illness shall be determined
> in accordance with such nationally or internationally accepted medical
> standards (including the latest edition of the International Classification
> of Disease of the World Health Organisation) as may be notified by the
> Central Government.
(2) No person or authority shall classify a person as a person with mental
illness, except for purposes  68 directly relating to the treatment of the
mental illness or in other matters as covered under this Act or any other law
for the time being in force.
(3) Mental illness of a person shall not be determined on the basis of––
(a) political, economic or social status or membership of a cultural, racial
or religious group, or for any other reason not directly relevant to mental
health status of the person;
(b) non-conformity with moral, social, cultural, work or political values or
religious beliefs prevailing in a person’s community.
(4) Past treatment or hospitalisation in a mental health establishment though
relevant, shall not by itself justify any present or future determination of
the person’s mental illness. (5) The determination of a person’s mental
illness shall alone not imply or be taken to mean that the person is of
unsound mind unless he has been declared as such by a competent court.”
73\. Mental illness in our statute has to keep pace with international notions
and accepted medical standards including the latest edition of the
International Classification of Diseases of the World Health Organization
under Section 3(1) of the Act. Under Section 3(3), mental illness shall not be
determined on the basis of social status or membership of a cultural group or
for any other reason not directly relevant to the mental health of  69 the
person. More importantly, mental illness shall not be determined on the basis
of non-conformity with moral, social, cultural, work or political values or
religious beliefs prevailing in a person’s community. It is thus clear that
Parliament has unequivocally declared that the earlier stigma attached to
same-sex couples, as persons who are regarded as mentally ill, has gone for
good. This is another very important step forward taken by the legislature
itself which has undermined one of the basic underpinnings of the judgment in
Suresh Kumar Koushal (supra).
Section 21(1)(a) is important and set out hereinbelow:
> “21. Right to equality and non-discrimination. (1) Every person with mental
> illness shall be treated as equal to persons with physical illness in the
> provision of all healthcare which shall include the following, namely:–
> (a) there shall be no discrimination on any basis including gender, sex,
> sexual orientation, religion, culture, caste, social or political beliefs,
> class or disability;”
74\. This Section is parliamentary recognition of the fact that gay persons
together with other persons are liable to be affected with mental illness, and
shall be treated as equal to the  70 other persons with such illness as there
is to be no discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation. Section 30 is
extremely important and reads as under:
> “30. Creating awareness about mental health and illness and reducing stigma
> associated with mental illness.
> The appropriate Government shall take all measures to ensure that,—
> (a) the provisions of this Act are given wide publicity through public
> media, including television, radio, print and online media at regular
> intervals;
> (b) the programmes to reduce stigma associated with mental illness are
> planned, designed, funded and implemented in an effective manner;
> (c) the appropriate Government officials including police officers and other
> officers of the appropriate Government are given periodic sensitisation and
> awareness training on the issues under this Act.”
75\. Section 115 largely does away with one other outmoded Section of the
Indian Penal Code, namely, Section 309. This Section reads as follows.
“115. Presumption of severe stress in case of attempt to commit suicide. (1)
Notwithstanding anything contained in section 309 of the Indian Penal Code any
person who attempts to commit suicide shall be presumed, unless proved
otherwise, to have severe stress and shall not be tried and punished under the
said Code.
(2) The appropriate Government shall have a duty to provide care, treatment
and rehabilitation to a person, having severe stress and who attempted to  71
commit suicide, to reduce the risk of recurrence of attempt to commit
suicide.”
76\. Instead of the inhumane Section 309 which has remained on the statute
book for over 150 years, Section 115 makes it clear that Section 309 is
rendered largely ineffective, and on the contrary, instead of committing a
criminal offence, any person who attempts to commit suicide shall be presumed
to have severe stress and shall not be tried and punished under Section 309 of
the Indian Penal Code. More importantly, the Government has an affirmative
duty to provide care, treatment and rehabilitation to such a person to reduce
the risk of recurrence of that person’s attempt to commit suicide. This
parliamentary declaration under Section 115 again is in keeping with the
present constitutional values, making it clear that humane measures are to be
taken by the Government in respect of a person who attempts to commit suicide
instead of prosecuting him for the offence of attempt to commit suicide.
77\. And finally, Section 120 of the Act reads as under:-
> “120. Act to have overriding effect. The provisions of this Act shall have
> overriding effect notwithstanding anything inconsistent therewith  72
> contained in any other law for the time being in force or in any instrument
> having effect by virtue of any law other than this Act.”
78\. The Latin maxim cessant ratione legis, cessat ipsa lex, meaning when the
reason for a law ceases, the law itself ceases, is a rule of law which has
been recognized by this Court in H.H. Shri Swamiji of Shri Amar Mutt v.
Commissioner, Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Dept, 1979 4 SCC 642
at paragraph 29, and State of Punjab v. Devans Modern Breweries Ltd., (2004)
11 SCC 26 at paragraph 335. It must not be forgotten that Section 377 was the
product of the Victorian era, with its attendant puritanical moral values.
Victorian morality must give way to constitutional morality as has been
recognized in many of our judgments. Constitutional morality is the soul of
the Constitution, which is to be found in the Preamble of the Constitution,
which declares its ideals and aspirations, and is also to be found in Part III
of the Constitution, particularly with respect to those provisions which
assure the dignity of the individual. The rationale for Section 377, namely
Victorian morality, has long gone and there is no reason to continue with  73
\- as Justice Holmes said in the lines quoted above in this judgment - a law
merely for the sake of continuing with the law when the rationale of such law
has long since disappeared.
79\. Given our judgment in Puttaswamy (supra), in particular, the right of
every citizen of India to live with dignity and the right to privacy including
the right to make intimate choices regarding the manner in which such
individual wishes to live being protected by Articles 14, 19 and 21, it is
clear that Section 377, insofar as it applies to same-sex consenting adults,
demeans them by having them prosecuted instead of understanding their sexual
orientation and attempting to correct centuries of the stigma associated with
such persons.
80\. The Union of India, seeing the writing on the wall, has filed an
affidavit in which it has not opposed the Petitioners but left the matter to
be considered by the wisdom of this Court. Some of the intervenors have argued
in favour of the retention of Section 377 qua consenting adults on the grounds
that homosexual acts are not by themselves proscribed by Section
377\. Unless there is penetration in the manner pointed out by the explanation
to the Section, no offence takes place. They  74 have also added that the
Section needs to be retained given the fact that it is only a parliamentary
reflection of the prevailing social mores of today in large segments of
society. According to them, this furthers a compelling state interest to
reinforce morals in public life which is not disproportionate in nature. We
are afraid that, given the march of events in constitutional law by this
Court, and parliamentary recognition of the plight of such persons in certain
provisions of the Mental Healthcare Act, 2017, it will not be open for a
constitutional court to substitute societal morality with constitutional
morality, as has been stated by us hereinabove. Further, as stated in S.
Khushboo v. Kanniammal and Anr., (2010) 5 SCC 600, at paragraphs 46 and 50,
this Court made it clear that notions of social morality are inherently
subjective and the criminal law cannot be used as a means to unduly interfere
with the domain of personal autonomy. Morality and criminality are not co-
extensive - sin is not punishable on earth by Courts set up by the State but
elsewhere; crime alone is punishable on earth. To confuse the one with the
other is what causes the death knell of Section 377, insofar as it applies to
consenting homosexual adults.  75
81\. Another argument raised on behalf of the intervenors is that change in
society, if any, can be reflected by amending laws by the elected
representatives of the people. Thus, it would be open to the Parliament to
carve out an exception from Section 377, but this Court should not indulge in
taking upon itself the guardianship of changing societal mores. Such an
argument must be emphatically rejected. The very purpose of the fundamental
rights chapter in the Constitution of India is to withdraw the subject of
liberty and dignity of the individual and place such subject beyond the reach
of majoritarian governments so that constitutional morality can be applied by
this Court to give effect to the rights, among others, of ‘discrete and
insular’ minorities.6 One such minority has knocked on the doors of this Court
as this Court is the custodian of the fundamental rights of citizens. These
fundamental rights do not depend upon the outcome of elections. And, it is not
left to majoritarian governments to prescribe what shall be orthodox in
matters concerning social morality. The fundamental rights chapter is like the
north star in the universe of constitutionalism 6 This phrase occurs in one of
the most celebrated footnotes in the US Supreme Court’s constitutional history
– namely, Footnote 4 of United States v. Carolene Products Co., 304 U.S. 144
(1938).  76 in India.7 Constitutional morality always trumps any imposition of
a particular view of social morality by shifting and different majoritarian
regimes.
82\. Insofar as Article 14 is concerned, this Court in Shayara Bano v. Union
of India, (2017) 9 SCC 1, has stated, in paragraph 101, that a statutory
provision can be struck down on the ground of manifest arbitrariness, when the
provision is capricious, irrational and/or without adequate determining
principle, as also if it is excessive or disproportionate. We find that
Section 377, in penalizing consensual gay sex, is manifestly arbitrary. Given
modern psychiatric studies and legislation which recognizes that gay persons
and transgenders are not persons suffering from mental disorder and cannot
therefore be penalized, the Section must be held to be a provision which is
capricious and irrational. Also, roping in such persons with sentences going
upto life imprisonment is clearly excessive and disproportionate, as a result
of which, when applied to such persons, Articles 14 and 21 of the Constitution
7 In William Shakespeare’s Julius Caesar (Act III, Scene 1), Caesar tells
Cassius-
> “I could be well moved, if I were as you;
> If I could pray to move, prayers would move me:
> But I am constant as the Northern Star, Of whose true-fixed and resting
> quality There is no fellow in the firmament.”  77 would clearly be violated.
> The object sought to be achieved by the provision, namely to enforce
> Victorian mores upon the citizenry of India, would be out of tune with the
> march of constitutional events that has since taken place, rendering the
> said object itself discriminatory when it seeks to single out same-sex
> couples and transgenders for punishment.
> 83\. As has been stated in the judgment of Nariman, J. in Shreya Singhal v.
> Union of India, (2015) 5 SCC 1, the chilling effect caused by such a
> provision would also violate a privacy right under Article 19(1)(a), which
> can by no stretch of imagination be said to be a reasonable restriction in
> the interest of decency or morality (See paragraphs 87 to 94).
84\. We may hasten to add, that the Yogyakarta Principles on the Application
of International Human Rights Law in relation to Sexual Orientation and Gender
Identity discussed below, which were also referred to by Radhakrishnan, J. in
NALSA (supra), conform to our constitutional view of the fundamental rights of
the citizens of India and persons who come to this Court.  78
85\. The International Commission of Jurists and the International Service for
Human Rights, on behalf of a coalition of human rights organisations, had
undertaken a project to develop a set of international legal principles on the
application of international law to human rights violations based on sexual
orientation and gender identity to bring greater clarity and coherence to
States’ human rights obligations.
86\. A distinguished group of human rights experts drafted, developed,
discussed and refined these Principles. Following an experts’ meeting held at
Gadjah Mada University in Yogyakarta, Indonesia from 6th to 9th November,
2006, 29 distinguished experts from 25 countries with diverse backgrounds and
expertise relevant to issues of human rights law unanimously adopted the
Yogyakarta Principles on the Application of International Human Rights Law in
relation to Sexual Orientation and Gender Identity.
87\. A few relevant extracts from the Yogyakarta Principles and its Preamble
are as follows:-
79 “Preamble WE, THE INTERNATIONAL PANEL OF EXPERTS IN INTERNATIONAL HUMAN
RIGHTS LAW AND ON SEXUAL ORIENTATION AND GENDER IDENTITY, XX XX UNDERSTANDING
‘sexual orientation’ to refer to each person’s capacity for profound
emotional, affectional and sexual attraction to, and intimate and sexual
relations with, individuals of a different gender or the same gender or more
than one gender;
XX XX FOLLOWING AN EXPERTS’ MEETING HELD IN YOGYAKARTA, INDONESIA FROM 6 TO 9
NOVEMBER 2006, HEREBY ADOPT THESE PRINCIPLES:
1\. The right to the universal enjoyment of human rights.—All human beings are
born free and equal in dignity and rights. Human beings of all sexual
orientations and gender identities are entitled to the full enjoyment of all
human rights.
States shall:
(a) embody the principles of the universality, interrelatedness,
interdependence and indivisibility of all human rights in their national
constitutions or other appropriate legislation and ensure the practical
realisation of the universal enjoyment of all human rights;
(b) amend any legislation, including criminal law, to ensure its consistency
with the universal enjoyment of all human rights;
(c) undertake programmes of education and awareness to promote and enhance the
full  80 enjoyment of all human rights by all persons, irrespective of sexual
orientation or gender identity;
(d) integrate within State policy and decision making a pluralistic approach
that recognises and affirms the interrelatedness and indivisibility of all
aspects of human identity including sexual orientation and gender identity.
2\. The rights to equality and non-
discrimination.—Everyone is entitled to enjoy all human rights without
discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation or gender identity. Everyone
is entitled to equality before the law and the equal protection of the law
without any such discrimination whether or not the enjoyment of another human
right is also affected. The law shall prohibit any such discrimination and
guarantee to all persons equal and effective protection against any such
discrimination.
Discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation or gender identity includes
any distinction, exclusion, restriction or preference based on sexual
orientation or gender identity which has the purpose or effect of nullifying
or impairing equality before the law or the equal protection of the law, or
the recognition, enjoyment or exercise, on an equal basis, of all human rights
and fundamental freedoms.
Discrimination based on sexual orientation or gender identity may be, and
commonly is, compounded by discrimination on other grounds including gender,
race, age, religion, disability, health and economic status.
States shall:
(a) embody the principles of equality and non- discrimination on the basis of
sexual orientation and gender identity in their national constitutions or
other appropriate legislation, if not yet incorporated therein, including by
means of amendment and  81 interpretation, and ensure the effective
realisation of these principles;
(b) repeal criminal and other legal provisions that prohibit or are, in
effect, employed to prohibit consensual sexual activity among people of the
same-sex who are over the age of consent, and ensure that an equal age of
consent applies to both same-sex and different-sex sexual activity;
(c) adopt appropriate legislative and other measures to prohibit and eliminate
discrimination in the public and private spheres on the basis of sexual
orientation and gender identity;
(d) take appropriate measures to secure adequate advancement of persons of
diverse sexual orientations and gender identities as may be necessary to
ensure such groups or individuals equal enjoyment or exercise of human rights.
Such measures shall not be deemed to be discriminatory;
(e) in all their responses to discrimination on the basis of sexual
orientation or gender identity, take account of the manner in which such
discrimination may intersect with other forms of discrimination;
(f) take all appropriate action, including programmes of education and
training, with a view to achieving the elimination of prejudicial or
discriminatory attitudes or behaviours which are related to the idea of the
inferiority or the superiority of any sexual orientation or gender identity or
gender expression.
3\. The right to recognition before the law.— Everyone has the right to
recognition everywhere as a person before the law. Persons of diverse sexual
orientations and gender identities shall enjoy legal capacity in all aspects
of life. Each person's self- defined sexual orientation and gender identity is
integral to their personality and is one of the most basic aspects of self-
determination, dignity and freedom. No one shall be forced to undergo medical
procedures, including sex reassignment surgery,  82 sterilisation or hormonal
therapy, as a requirement for legal recognition of their gender identity. No
status, such as marriage or parenthood, may be invoked as such to prevent the
legal recognition of a person's gender identity. No one shall be subjected to
pressure to conceal, suppress or deny their sexual orientation or gender
identity.
States shall:
(a) ensure that all persons are accorded legal capacity in civil matters,
without discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation or gender identity,
and the opportunity to exercise that capacity, including equal rights to
conclude contracts, and to administer, own, acquire (including through
inheritance), manage, enjoy and dispose of property;
(b) take all necessary legislative, administrative and other measures to fully
respect and legally recognise each person's self-defined gender identity;
(c) take all necessary legislative, administrative and other measures to
ensure that procedures exist whereby all State-issued identity papers which
indicate a person's gender/sex—including birth certificates, passports,
electoral records and other documents—reflect the person's profound self-
defined gender identity;
(d) ensure that such procedures are efficient, fair and non-discriminatory,
and respect the dignity and privacy of the person concerned;
(e) ensure that changes to identity documents will be recognised in all
contexts where the identification or disaggregation of persons by gender is
required by law or policy;
(f) undertake targeted programmes to provide social support for all persons
experiencing gender transitioning or reassignment.
83 XXX
4\. The right to life.—Everyone has the right to life. No one shall be
arbitrarily deprived of life, including by reference to considerations of
sexual orientation or gender identity. The death penalty shall not be imposed
on any person on the basis of consensual sexual activity among persons who are
over the age of consent or on the basis of sexual orientation or gender
identity.
States shall:
(a) repeal all forms of crime that have the purpose or effect of prohibiting
consensual sexual activity among persons of the same-sex who are over the age
of consent and, until such provisions are repealed, never impose the death
penalty on any person convicted under them;
(b) remit sentences of death and release all those currently awaiting
execution for crimes relating to consensual sexual activity among persons who
are over the age of consent;
(c) cease any State-sponsored or State-condoned attacks on the lives of
persons based on sexual orientation or gender identity, and ensure that all
such attacks, whether by government officials or by any individual or group,
are vigorously investigated, and that, where appropriate evidence is found,
those responsible are prosecuted, tried and duly punished.
XXX
6\. The right to privacy.—Everyone, regardless of sexual orientation or gender
identity, is entitled to the enjoyment of privacy without arbitrary or
unlawful interference, including with regard to their family, home or
correspondence as well as to protection from unlawful attacks on their honour
and  84 reputation. The right to privacy ordinarily includes the choice to
disclose or not to disclose information relating to one's sexual orientation
or gender identity, as well as decisions and choices regarding both one's own
body and consensual sexual and other relations with others.
States shall:
(a) take all necessary legislative, administrative and other measures to
ensure the right of each person, regardless of sexual orientation or gender
identity, to enjoy the private sphere, intimate decisions, and human
relations, including consensual sexual activity among persons who are over the
age of consent, without arbitrary interference;
(b) repeal all laws that criminalise consensual sexual activity among persons
of the same-sex who are over the age of consent, and ensure that an equal age
of consent applies to both same-sex and different-sex sexual activity;
(c) ensure that criminal and other legal provisions of general application are
not applied de facto to criminalise consensual sexual activity among persons
of the same-sex who are over the age of consent;
(d) repeal any law that prohibits or criminalises the expression of gender
identity, including through dress, speech or mannerisms, or that denies to
individuals the opportunity to change their bodies as a means of expressing
their gender identity;
(e) release all those held on remand or on the basis of a criminal conviction,
if their detention is related to consensual sexual activity among persons who
are over the age of consent, or is related to gender identity;
(f) ensure the right of all persons ordinarily to choose when, to whom and how
to disclose information pertaining to their sexual orientation or gender
identity, and protect all persons from  85 arbitrary or unwanted disclosure,
or threat of disclosure of such information by others.
XXX
18\. Protection from medical abuses.—No person may be forced to undergo any
form of medical or psychological treatment, procedure, testing, or be confined
to a medical facility, based on sexual orientation or gender identity.
Notwithstanding any classifications to the contrary, a person's sexual
orientation and gender identity are not, in and of themselves, medical
conditions and are not to be treated, cured or suppressed.
States shall:
(a) take all necessary legislative, administrative and other measures to
ensure full protection against harmful medical practices based on sexual
orientation or gender identity, including on the basis of stereotypes, whether
derived from culture or otherwise, regarding conduct, physical appearance or
perceived gender norms;
(b) take all necessary legislative, administrative and other measures to
ensure that no child's body is irreversibly altered by medical procedures in
an attempt to impose a gender identity without the full, free and informed
consent of the child in accordance with the age and maturity of the child and
guided by the principle that in all actions concerning children, the best
interests of the child shall be a primary consideration;
(c) establish child protection mechanisms whereby no child is at risk of, or
subjected to, medical abuse;
(d) ensure protection of persons of diverse sexual orientations and gender
identities against unethical or involuntary medical procedures or research,
including in relation to vaccines, treatments or microbicides for HIV/AIDS or
other diseases;  86
(e) review and amend any health funding provisions or programmes, including
those of a development- assistance nature, which may promote, facilitate or in
any other way render possible such abuses;
(f) ensure that any medical or psychological treatment or counselling does
not, explicitly or implicitly, treat sexual orientation and gender identity as
medical conditions to be treated, cured or suppressed.
19\. The right to freedom of opinion and expression.— Everyone has the right
to freedom of opinion and expression, regardless of sexual orientation or
gender identity. This includes the expression of identity or personhood
through speech, deportment, dress, bodily characteristics, choice of name, or
any other means, as well as the freedom to seek, receive and impart
information and ideas of all kinds, including with regard to human rights,
sexual orientation and gender identity, through any medium and regardless of
frontiers. States shall:
(a) take all necessary legislative, administrative and other measures to
ensure full enjoyment of freedom of opinion and expression, while respecting
the rights and freedoms of others, without discrimination on the basis of
sexual orientation or gender identity, including the receipt and imparting of
information and ideas concerning sexual orientation and gender identity, as
well as related advocacy for legal rights, publication of materials,
broadcasting, organisation of or participation in conferences, and
dissemination of and access to safer-sex information;
(b) ensure that the outputs and the organisation of media that is State-
regulated is pluralistic and non- discriminatory in respect of issues of
sexual orientation and gender identity and that the personnel recruitment and
promotion policies of  87 such organisations are non-discriminatory on the
basis of sexual orientation or gender identity;
(c) take all necessary legislative, administrative and other measures to
ensure the full enjoyment of the right to express identity or personhood,
including through speech, deportment, dress, bodily characteristics, choice of
name or any other means;
(d) ensure that notions of public order, public morality, public health and
public security are not employed to restrict, in a discriminatory manner, any
exercise of freedom of opinion and expression that affirms diverse sexual
orientations or gender identities;
(e) ensure that the exercise of freedom of opinion and expression does not
violate the rights and freedoms of persons of diverse sexual orientations and
gender identities;
(f) ensure that all persons, regardless of sexual orientation or gender
identity, enjoy equal access to information and ideas, as well as to
participation in public debate.” (Emphasis supplied)
88\. These principles give further content to the fundamental rights contained
in Articles 14, 15, 19 and 21, and viewed in the light of these principles
also, Section 377 will have to be declared to be unconstitutional.
89\. Given the aforesaid, it has now to be decided as to whether the judgment
in Suresh Kumar Koushal (supra) is correct. Suresh Kumar Koushal’s judgment
(supra) first begins with the presumption of constitutionality attaching to
pre-  88 constitutional laws, such as the Indian Penal Code. The judgment goes
on to state that pre-constitutional laws, which have been adopted by
Parliament and used with or without amendment, being manifestations of the
will of the people of India through Parliament, are presumed to be
constitutional. We are afraid that we cannot agree.
90\. Article 372 of the Constitution of India continues laws in force in the
territory of India immediately before the commencement of the Constitution.
That the Indian Penal Code is a law in force in the territory of India
immediately before the commencement of this Constitution is beyond cavil.
Under Article 372(2), the President may, by order, make such adaptations and
modifications of an existing law as may be necessary or expedient to bring
such law in accord with the provisions of the Constitution. The fact that the
President has not made any adaptation or modification as mentioned in Article
372(2) does not take the matter very much further. The presumption of
constitutionality of a statute is premised on the fact that Parliament
understands the needs of the people, and that, as per the separation of powers
doctrine, Parliament is  89 aware of its limitations in enacting laws – it can
only enact laws which do not fall within List II of Schedule VII of the
Constitution of India, and cannot transgress the fundamental rights of the
citizens and other constitutional provisions in doing so. Parliament is
therefore deemed to be aware of the aforesaid constitutional limitations.
Where, however, a pre-constitution law is made by either a foreign legislature
or body, none of these parameters obtain. It is therefore clear that no such
presumption attaches to a pre-constitutional statute like the Indian Penal
Code. In fact, in the majority judgment of B.P. Jeevan Reddy, J. in New Delhi
Municipal Council v. State of Punjab and Ors., (1997) 7 SCC 339, the Punjab
Municipal Act of 1911 was deemed to be a post-constitutional law inasmuch as
it was extended to Delhi only in 1950, as a result of which the presumption of
constitutionality was raised. Ahmadi, C.J.’s dissenting opinion correctly
states that if a pre-constitutional law is challenged, the presumption of
constitutional validity would not obtain. The relevant paragraph is extracted
below:-
> “119. Reddy, J. has taken the view that the Doctrine of Presumption of
> Constitutionality of Legislations requires the saving of the taxes which
> these Acts impose upon the commercial activities of State  90 Governments.
> The Act is a pre-constitutional enactment. The basis of this doctrine is the
> assumed intention of the legislators not to transgress constitutional
> boundaries. It is difficult to appreciate how that intention can be assumed
> when, at the time that the law was passed, there was no such barrier and the
> limitation was brought in by a Constitution long after the enactment of the
> law. (This Court has in a Constitution Bench decision, Gulabbhai Vallabbhai
> Desai v. Union of India [AIR 1967 SC 1110 : (1967) 1 SCR 602] , (AIR at p.
> 1117 raised doubts along similar lines). The Framers obviously wanted the
> law under Article 289(2) to be of a very high standard. Can these laws,
> which are silent on the most important aspect required by Article 289(2),
> i.e., the specification of the trading activities of State Governments which
> would be liable to Union taxation, be said to meet with that standard?”
91\. It is a little difficult to subscribe to the view of the Division Bench
that the presumption of constitutionality of Section 377 would therefore
attach.
92\. The fact that the legislature has chosen not to amend the law, despite
the 172nd Law Commission Report specifically recommending deletion of Section
377, may indicate that Parliament has not thought it proper to delete the
aforesaid provision, is one more reason for not invalidating Section 377,
according to Suresh Kumar Koushal (supra). This is a little difficult to
appreciate when the Union of India admittedly did not  91 challenge the Delhi
High Court judgment striking down the provision in part. Secondly, the fact
that Parliament may or may not have chosen to follow a Law Commission Report
does not guide the Court’s understanding of its character, scope, ambit and
import as has been stated in Suresh Kumar Koushal (supra). It is a neutral
fact which need not be taken into account at all. All that the Court has to
see is whether constitutional provisions have been transgressed and if so, as
a natural corollary, the death knell of the challenged provision must follow.
93\. It is a little difficult to appreciate the Court stating that the ambit
of Section 377 IPC is only determined with reference to the sexual act itself
and the circumstances in which it is executed. It is also a little difficult
to appreciate that Section 377 regulates sexual conduct regardless of gender
identity and orientation.
94\. After 2013, when Section 375 was amended so as to include anal and
certain other kinds of sexual intercourse between a man and a woman, which
would not be criminalized as rape if it was between consenting adults, it is
clear that if  92 Section 377 continues to penalize such sexual intercourse,
an anomalous position would result. A man indulging in such sexual intercourse
would not be liable to be prosecuted for rape but would be liable to be
prosecuted under Section 377. Further, a woman who could, at no point of time,
have been prosecuted for rape would, despite her consent, be prosecuted for
indulging in anal or such other sexual intercourse with a man in private under
Section 377. This would render Section 377, as applied to such consenting
adults, as manifestly arbitrary as it would be wholly excessive and
disproportionate to prosecute such persons under Section 377 when the
legislature has amended one portion of the law in 2013, making it clear that
consensual sex, as described in the amended provision, between two consenting
adults, one a man and one a woman, would not be liable for prosecution. If, by
having regard to what has been said above, Section 377 has to be read down as
not applying to anal and such other sex by a male-female couple, then the
Section will continue to apply only to homosexual sex. If this be the case,
the Section will offend Article 14 as it will discriminate between
heterosexual and  93 homosexual adults which is a distinction which has no
rational relation to the object sought to be achieved by the Section - namely,
the criminalization of all carnal sex between homosexual and/or heterosexual
adults as being against the order of nature.8 Viewed either way, the Section
falls foul of Article 14.
95\. The fact that only a minuscule fraction of the country’s population
constitutes lesbians and gays or transgenders, and that in the last 150 years
less than 200 persons have been prosecuted for committing the offence under
Section 377, is neither here nor there. When it is found that privacy
interests come in and the State has no compelling reason to continue an
existing law which penalizes same-sex couples who cause no harm to others, on
an application of the recent judgments delivered by this Court after Suresh
Kumar Koushal (supra), it is clear that Articles 14, 15, 19 and 21 have all
been transgressed without any legitimate state rationale to uphold such
provision.
8 An argument was made by the Petitioners that Section 377, being vague and
unintelligible, should be struck down on this ground as it is not clear as to
what is meant by “against the order of nature”. Since Section 377 applies down
the line to carnal sex between human beings and animals as well, which is not
the subject matter of challenge here, it is unnecessary to go into this ground
as the Petitioners have succeeded on other grounds raised by them.
94
96\. For all these reasons therefore, we are of the view that, Suresh Kumar
Koushal (supra) needs to be, and is hereby, overruled.
97\. We may conclude by stating that persons who are homosexual have a
fundamental right to live with dignity, which, in the larger framework of the
Preamble of India, will assure the cardinal constitutional value of fraternity
that has been discussed in some of our judgments (See (1) Nandini Sundar v.
State of Chhattisgarh, (2011) 7 SCC 547 at paragraphs 16, 25 and 52; and (2)
Subramaniam Swamy v. Union of India (2016) 7 SCC 221 at paragraphs 153 to
156). We further declare that such groups are entitled to the protection of
equal laws, and are entitled to be treated in society as human beings without
any stigma being attached to any of them. We further declare that Section 377
insofar as it criminalises homosexual sex and transgender sex between
consenting adults is unconstitutional.
98\. We are also of the view that the Union of India shall take all measures
to ensure that this judgment is given wide publicity through the public media,
which includes television, radio, print and online media at regular intervals,
and initiate programs to  95 reduce and finally eliminate the stigma
associated with such persons. Above all, all government officials, including
and in particular police officials, and other officers of the Union of India
and the States, be given periodic sensitization and awareness training of the
plight of such persons in the light of the observations contained in this
judgment.
……………………………..J.
(R.F. Nariman) New Delhi;
September 06, 2018.
                                                                            96
                                                      REPORTABLE
                  IN THE SUPREME COURT OF INDIA
               CRIMINAL/CIVIL ORIGINAL JURISDICTION
                 WRIT PETITION (CRIMINAL) NO 76 OF 2016
    NAVTEJ SINGH JOHAR & ORS.                      ...Petitioner
                             VERSUS
    UNION OF INDIA, THR. SECRETARY,
    MINISTRY OF LAW AND JUSTICE                    …Respondent
                                WITH
                  WRIT PETITION (CIVIL) NO 572 OF 2016
    AKKAI PADMASHALI                               ...Petitioner
                             VERSUS
    UNION OF INDIA, THR.SECRETARY,
    MINISTRY OF LAW AND JUSTICE                    ...Respondent
                                 1
                                WITH
                  WRIT PETITION (CRIMINAL) NO 88 OF 2018
    KESHAV SURI                                     ...Petitioner
                               VERSUS
    UNION OF INDIA                                   ...Respondent
                                WITH
                  WRIT PETITION (CRIMINAL) NO 100 OF 2018
    ARIF JAFAR                                     ...Petitioner
                               VERSUS
    UNION OF INDIA AND ORS.                        ...Respondents
                                WITH
                                  2
                   WRIT PETITION (CRIMINAL) NO 101 OF 2018
    ASHOK ROW KAVI AND ORS.                         ...Petitioners
                                    VERSUS
    UNION OF INDIA AND ORS.                         ...Respondents
                                        AND
                                        WITH
                   WRIT PETITION (CRIMINAL) NO 121 OF 2018
    ANWESH POKKULURI AND ORS.                        ...Petitioners
                                    VERSUS
    UNION OF INDIA                                   ...Respondent
                                        JUDGMENT
    Index to the judgment
    A    From denial to freedom
    B    “To the wisdom of the Court”
                                         3
    C   From “The Ashes of the Gay”
        C.I   “Arc of the moral universe”
    D   An equal love
E Beyond physicality: sex, identity and stereotypes E.I Facial neutrality:
through the looking glass E.2 Deconstructing the polarities of binary genders
F Confronting the closet F.I Sexual privacy and autonomy- deconstructing the
heteronormative framework F.2 A right to intimacy- celebration of sexual
agency G Section 377 and the right to health G.I Section 377 and HIV
prevention efforts G.2 Mental health H Judicial review I India’s commitments
at International Law J Transcending borders - comparative law K Crime,
morality and the Constitution L Constitutional morality M In summation :
transformative constitutionalism  4 PART A Dr Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, J A
From denial to freedom “What makes life meaningful is love. The right that
makes us human is the right to love. To criminalize the expression of that
right is profoundly cruel and inhumane. To acquiesce in such criminalization,
or worse, to recriminalize it, is to display the very opposite of compassion.
To show exaggerated deference to a majoritarian Parliament when the matter is
one of fundamental rights is to display judicial pusillanimity, for there is
no doubt, that in the constitutional scheme, it is the judiciary that is the
ultimate interpreter.”1 1 The lethargy of the law is manifest yet again. 2 A
hundred and fifty eight years ago, a colonial legislature made it criminal,
even for consenting adults of the same gender, to find fulfillment in love.
The law deprived them of the simple right as human beings to live, love and
partner as nature made them. The human instinct to love was caged by
constraining the physical manifestation of their sexuality. Gays and lesbians2
were made subordinate to the authority of a coercive state. A charter of
morality made their relationships hateful. The criminal law became a willing
instrument of repression. To engage in ‘carnal intercourse’ against ‘the order
of nature’ risked being tucked away for ten years in a jail. The offence would
1 Justice Leila Seth, “A mother and a judge speaks out on Section 377”, The
Times of India, 26 January, 2014. 2 These terms as well as terms such as
“LGBT” and “LGBTIQ” used in the judgement are to be construed in an inclusive
sense to include members of all gender and sexual minorities, whose sexual
activity is criminalized by the application of Section 377 of the Indian Penal
Code, 1860.  5 PART A be investigated by searching the most intimate of spaces
to find tell-tale signs of intercourse. Civilisation has been brutal. 3 Eighty
seven years after the law was made, India gained her liberation from a
colonial past. But Macaulay’s legacy - the offence under Section 377 of the
Penal Code - has continued to exist for nearly sixty eight years after we gave
ourselves a liberal Constitution. Gays and lesbians, transgenders and
bisexuals continue to be denied a truly equal citizenship seven decades after
Independence. The law has imposed upon them a morality which is an
anachronism. Their entitlement should be as equal participants in a society
governed by the morality of the Constitution. That in essence is what Section
377 denies to them. The shadows of a receding past confront their quest for
fulfillment.
4 Section 377 exacts conformity backed by the fear of penal reprisal. There is
an unbridgeable divide between the moral values on which it is based and the
values of the Constitution. What separates them is liberty and dignity. We
must, as a society, ask searching questions to the forms and symbols of
injustice. Unless we do that, we risk becoming the cause and not just the
inheritors of an unjust society. Does the Constitution allow a quiver of fear
to become the quilt around the bodies of her citizens, in the intimacies which
6 PART A define their identities? If there is only one answer to this
question, as I believe there is, the tragedy and anguish which Section 377
inflicts must be remedied. 5 The Constitution brought about a transfer of
political power. But it reflects above all, a vision of a society governed by
justice. Individual liberty is its soul. The constitutional vision of justice
accommodates differences of culture, ideology and orientation. The stability
of its foundation lies in its effort to protect diversity in all its facets:
in the beliefs, ideas and ways of living of her citizens. Democratic as it is,
our Constitution does not demand conformity. Nor does it contemplate the
mainstreaming of culture. It nurtures dissent as the safety valve for societal
conflict. Our ability to recognise others who are different is a sign of our
own evolution. We miss the symbols of a compassionate and humane society only
at our peril. Section 377 provides for rule by the law instead of the rule of
law. The rule of law requires a just law which facilitates equality, liberty
and dignity in all its facets. Rule by the law provides legitimacy to
arbitrary state behaviour. 6 Section 377 has consigned a group of citizens to
the margins. It has been destructive of their identities. By imposing the
sanctions of the law on consenting adults involved in a sexual relationship,
it has lent the authority of  7 PART B the state to perpetuate social
stereotypes and encourage discrimination. Gays, lesbians, bisexuals and
transgenders have been relegated to the anguish of closeted identities. Sexual
orientation has become a target for exploitation, if not blackmail, in a
networked and digital age. The impact of Section 377 has travelled far beyond
the punishment of an offence. It has been destructive of an identity which is
crucial to a dignified existence. 7 It is difficult to right the wrongs of
history. But we can certainly set the course for the future. That we can do by
saying, as I propose to say in this case, that lesbians, gays, bisexuals and
transgenders have a constitutional right to equal citizenship in all its
manifestations. Sexual orientation is recognised and protected by the
Constitution. Section 377 of the Penal Code is unconstitutional in so far as
it penalises a consensual relationship between adults of the same gender. The
constitutional values of liberty and dignity can accept nothing less.
    B     “To the wisdom of the Court”
          Union Government before the Court
    8     After the hearing commenced, the Additional Solicitor General tendered
an affidavit. The Union government states that it leaves a decision on the  8
PART B validity of Section 377 ‘to the wisdom of this Court’. Implicit in this
is that the government has no view of its own on the subject and rests content
to abide by the decision of this Court. During the parleys in Court, the ASG
however submitted that the court should confine itself to the reference by
ruling upon the correctness of Suresh Kumar Koushal v. Naz Foundation3
(“Koushal”). 9 We would have appreciated a categorical statement of position
by the government, setting out its views on the validity of Section 377 and on
the correctness of Koushal. The ambivalence of the government does not obviate
the necessity for a judgment on the issues raised. The challenge to the
constitutional validity of Section 377 must squarely be addressed in this
proceeding. That is plainly the duty of the Court. Constitutional issues are
not decided on concession. The statement of the Union government does not
concede to the contention of the petitioners that the statutory provision is
invalid. Even if a concession were to be made, that would not conclude the
matter for this Court. All that the stand of the government indicates is that
it is to the ‘wisdom’ of this Court that the matter is left. In reflecting
upon this appeal to our wisdom, it is just as well that we as judges remind
ourselves of a truth which can unwittingly be forgotten: flattery is a
graveyard for the gullible. 3 (2014) 1 SCC 1  9 PART B 10 Bereft of a
submission on behalf of the Union government on a matter of constitutional
principle these proceedings must be dealt with in the only manner known to the
constitutional court: through an adjudication which fulfills constitutional
values and principles.
11 The ASG made a fair submission when he urged that the court should deal
with the matter in reference. The submission, to its credit, would have the
court follow a path of prudence. Prudence requires, after all, that the Court
should address itself to the controversy in the reference without pursuing an
uncharted course beyond it. While accepting the wisdom of the approach
suggested by the ASG, it is nonetheless necessary to make some prefatory
observations on the scope of the reference.
12 The correctness of the decision in Koushal is in question. Koushal [as
indeed the decision of the Delhi High Court in Naz Foundation v. Government of
NCT of Delhi4 (“Naz”)] dealt with the validity of Section 377 which
criminalizes even a consensual relationship between adults of the same gender
who engage in sexual conduct (‘carnal intercourse against the order of
nature’). In dealing with the validity of the provision, it is necessary to
understand the nature of the constitutional right which LGBT individuals
claim. 4(2010) Cri LJ 94  10 PART B According to them, the right to be in a
relationship with a consenting adult of the same gender emanates from the
right to life, as a protected value under the Constitution. They ground their
right on the basis of an identity resting in their sexual orientation.
According to them, their liberty and dignity require both an acknowledgement
as well as a protection under the law, of their sexual orientation.
Representing their identity, based on sexual orientation, to the world at
large and asserting it in their relationship with the community and the state
is stated to be intrinsic to the free exercise of speech and expression
guaranteed by the Constitution. Sexual orientation is claimed to be intrinsic
to the guarantee against discrimination on the ground of sex. The statutory
provision, it has been asserted, also violates the fundamental guarantee
against arbitrariness because it unequally targets gay men whose sexual
expression falls in the area prohibited by Section 377. 13 In answering the
dispute in regard to the validity of Section 377, the court must of necessity
understand and explain in a constitutional perspective, the nature of the
right which is claimed. The challenge to Section 377 has to be understood from
the perspective of a rights discourse. While doing so, it becomes necessary to
understand the constitutional source from which the claim emerges. When a
right is claimed to be constitutionally protected, it is but necessary for the
court to analyze the basis of that assertion. Hence, in  11 PART C answering
the reference, it is crucial for the court to place the entitlement of the
LGBT population in a constitutional framework. We have approached the matter
thus far from the perspective of constitutional analysis. But there is a more
simple line of reasoning as well, grounded as we believe, in common- sense.
Sexual acts between consenting adults of the same gender constitute one facet
– albeit an important aspect – of the right asserted by gay men to lead
fulfilling lives. Gay and lesbian relationships are sustained and nurtured in
every aspect which makes for a meaningful life. In understanding the true
nature of those relationships and the protection which the Constitution
affords to them, it is necessary to adopt a perspective which leads to their
acceptance as equal members of a humane and compassionate society. Forming a
holistic perspective requires the court to dwell on, but not confine itself,
to sexuality. Sexual orientation creates an identity on which there is a
constitutional claim to the entitlement of a dignified life. It is from that
broad perspective that the constitutional right needs to be adjudicated.
    C     From “The Ashes of the Gay”
                                             “Democracy
                              It's coming through a hole in the air,
                                                   …
                                      It's coming from the feel
                                     that this ain't exactly real,
                               or it's real, but it ain't exactly there.
                                 From the wars against disorder,
                                  from the sirens night and day,
                                                 12
                                                                                                                  PART C
                                             from the fires of the homeless,
                                                from the ashes of the gay:
                                                 Democracy is coming…”5
    14       Section 377 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 (“IPC”) has made ‘carnal
intercourse against the order of nature’ an offence. This provision,
understood as prohibiting non-peno vaginal intercourse, reflects the
imposition of a particular set of morals by a colonial power at a particular
point in history. A supposedly alien law,6 Section 377 has managed to survive
for over 158 years, impervious to both the anticolonial struggle as well as
the formation of a democratic India, which guarantees fundamental rights to
all its citizens. An inquiry into the colonial origins of Section 377 and its
postulations about sexuality is useful in assessing the relevance of the
provision in contemporary times.7 15 Lord Thomas Babington Macaulay, Chairman
of the First Law Commission of India and principal architect of the IPC, cited
two main sources from which he drew in drafting the Code: the French
(Napoleonic) Penal Code, 1810 and Edward Livingston’s Louisiana Code.8 Lord
Macaulay also 5 Lyrics from Leonard Cohen’s song “Democracy” (1992). 6 See
Same-Sex Love in India: A Literary History (Ruth Vanita and Saleem Kidwai,
eds.), Penguin India (2008) for writings spanning over more than 2,000 years
of Indian literature which demonstrate that same-sex love has flourished,
evolved and been embraced in various forms since ancient times. 7 Law like
Love: Queer Perspectives on Law (Arvind Narrain and Alok Gupta, eds.), Yoda
Press (2011). 8 K. N. Chandrasekharan Pillai and Shabistan Aquil, “Historical
Introduction to the Indian Penal Code”, in Essays on the Indian Penal Code,
New Delhi, Indian Law Institute (2005); Siyuan Chen, “Codification, Macaulay
and the Indian Penal Code [Book Review], Singapore Journal of Legal Studies,
National University of Singapore, Faculty of Law (2011), at pages 581-584.
13 PART C drew inspiration from the English common law and the British Royal
Commission’s 1843 Draft Code.9 Tracing that origin, English jurist Fitzjames
Stephen observes:
> “The Indian Penal Code may be described as the criminal law of England freed
> from all technicalities and superfluities, systematically arranged and
> modified in some few particulars (they are surprisingly few) to suit the
> circumstances of British India.”10 In order to understand the colonial
> origins of Section 377, it is necessary to go further back to modern English
> law’s conception of anal and oral intercourse, which was firmly rooted in
> Judeo-Christian morality and condemned non-
procreative sex.11 Though Jesus himself does not reference homosexuality or
homosexual sex,12 the “Holiness Code”13 found in Leviticus provides thus:
> “You shall not lie with a male as with a woman. It is an abomination.
> [18:22] If a man also lie with mankind, as he lieth with a woman, both of
> them have committed an abomination: they shall surely be put to death; their
> blood shall be upon them. [19:13] If a man lies with a male as with a woman,
> both of them have committed an abomination; they shall be put to death,
> their blood is upon them. [20:13]” 9 Douglas E. Sanders, “377 and the
> Unnatural Afterlife of British Colonialism in Asia”, Asian Journal of
> Comparative Law, Vol. 4 (2009), at page 11 (“Douglas”); David Skuy,
> “Macaulay and the Indian Penal Code of 1862: The Myth of the Inherent
> Superiority and Modernity of the English Legal System Compared to India’s
> Legal System in the Nineteenth Century”, Modern Asian Studies, Vol. 32
> (1998), at pages 513-557.
10 Barry Wright, “Macaulay’s Indian Penal Code: Historical Context and
Originating Principles”, Carleton University (2011).
11 Michael Kirby, “The Sodomy Offence: England's Least Lovely Law Export?”
Journal of Commonwealth Criminal Law, Inaugural Issue (2011).
12 Douglas, supra note 9, at page 4.
13 Ibid at page 2.
14 PART C Another Judeo-Christian religious interpretation refers to “sodomy”,
a term used for anal intercourse that is derived from an interpretation of
Genesis 18:20 of the Old Testament,14 known as the story of Sodom and
Gomorrah. Briefly, when two angels took refuge in the home of Lot, the men of
the town of Sodom surrounded the house and demanded that the angels be sent
out so that the men may “know” them (in this interpretation, with sexual
connotations). When Lot offered them his two virgin daughters instead, the men
of Sodom responded by threatening Lot. The angels then blinded the
“Sodomites.”15 The use of the term “sodomites” to describe those who engaged
in anal intercourse emerged in the 13th Century, and the term “sodomy” was
used as a euphemism for a number of sexual ‘sins’ two centuries earlier.16 16
The preservation of the Judeo-Christian condemnation of homosexuality is also
attributed to the Jewish theologian, Philo of Alexandria, who is regarded as
the father of the Church Fathers and who reviled homosexuals and called for
their execution.17 The condemnation of homosexuality can also be traced to
Roman law. Emperor Justinian’s Code of 529, for instance, stated 14 Douglas,
supra note 9, at page 4.
15 Jessica Cecil, “The Destruction of Sodom and Gomorrah”, British
Broadcasting Company, 11 February 2017. 16 Douglas, supra note 9, at page 4;
KSN Murthy’s Criminal Law: Indian Penal Code (KVS Sarma ed), Lexis Nexis
(2016).
17 Philo, translated by F.H. Colson and G.H. Whitaker, 10 Volumes, (Cambridge:
Harvard University Press, 1929-
1962).
15 PART C that persons who engaged in homosexual sex were to be executed.18
From Rome, the condemnation of homosexuality spread across Europe, where it
manifested itself in ecclesiastical law.19 During the Protestant Reformation,
these laws shifted from the ecclesiastical to the criminal domain, beginning
with Germany in 1532.20 While ecclesiastical laws against homosexual
intercourse were well established in England by the 1500s,21 England’s first
criminal (non- ecclesiastical) law was the Buggery Act of 1533, which
condemned “the detestable and abominable vice of buggeri committed with
mankind or beest.”22 “Buggery” is derived from the old French word for
heretic, “bougre”, and was taken to mean anal intercourse.23 17 The Buggery
Act, 1533, which was enacted by Henry VIII, made the offence of buggery
punishable by death, and continued to exist for nearly 300 years before it was
repealed and replaced by the Offences against the Person Act, 1828. Buggery,
however, remained a capital offence in England until 1861, one year after the
enactment of the IPC. The language of Section 377 18 David F. Greenberg and
Marcia H. Bystryn, “Christian Intolerance of Homosexuality”, American Journal
of Sociology, Vol. 88 (1982), at pages 515-548.
19 Douglas, supra note 9, at pages 5 and 8.
20 Ibid at page 5.
21 Ibid at page 2.
22 The Buggery Act, 1533.
23 Douglas, supra note 9, at page 2.
16 PART C has antecedents in the definition of buggery found in Sir Edward
Coke’s late 17th Century compilation of English law:24 “...Committed by carnal
knowledge against the ordinance of the Creator, and order of nature, by
mankind with mankind, or with brute beast, or by womankind with brute
beast.”25 18 The Criminal Law Amendment Act, 1885 made “gross indecency” a
crime in the United Kingdom, and was used to prosecute homosexuals where
sodomy could not be proven. In 1895, Oscar Wilde was arrested under the Act
for ‘committing acts of gross indecency with male persons’.26 During Wilde’s
trial, the Prosecutor, referring to homosexual love, asked him, “What is ‘the
love that dare not speak its name’?” Wilde responded:
> “The love that dare not speak its name” in this century is such a great
> affection of an elder for a younger man as there was between David and
> Jonathan, such as Plato made the very basis of his philosophy, and such as
> you find in the sonnets of Michelangelo and Shakespeare. It is that deep
> spiritual affection that is as pure as it is perfect. It dictates and
> pervades great works of art, like those of Shakespeare and Michelangelo, and
> those two letters of mine, such as they are. It is in this century
> misunderstood, so much misunderstood that it may be described as “the love
> that dare not speak its name,” and on that account of it I am placed where I
> am now.
It is beautiful, it is fine, it is the noblest form of affection. There is
nothing unnatural about it. It is intellectual, and it repeatedly exists
between an older and a younger man, when the older man has intellect, and the
younger man has all the joy, hope and glamour of life before him. That it
should be so, the world 24 Ibid at 7.
25 Human Rights Watch. This Alien Legacy: The Origins of “Sodomy” Laws in
British Colonialism (2008). 26 Douglas, supra note 9, at page 15.
17 PART C does not understand. The world mocks at it, and sometimes puts one
in the pillory for it.”27 Wilde was held guilty and was sentenced to two
years’ hard labour and subsequently incarcerated.
Following World War II, arrests and prosecutions of homosexuals increased.
Alan Turing, the renowned mathematician and cryptographer who was responsible
for breaking the Nazi Enigma code during World War II, was convicted of ‘gross
indecency’ in 1952. In order to avoid a prison sentence, Turing was forced to
agree to chemical castration. He was injected with synthetic female hormones.
Less than two years after he began the hormone treatment, Turing committed
suicide. The Amendment Act (also known as the Labouchere Amendment) remained
in English law until 1967. Turing was posthumously pardoned in 2013, and in
2017, the UK introduced the Policing and Crime Bill, also called the “Turing
Law,” posthumously pardoning 50,000 homosexual men and providing pardons for
the living. In the wake of several court cases in which homosexuality had been
featured, the British Parliament in 1954 set up the Wolfenden Committee,
headed by 27 H. Montgomery Hyde, John O'Connor, and Merlin Holland, The Trials
of Oscar Wilde (2014), at page 201.  18 PART C John Wolfenden, to
“consider…the law and practice relating to homosexual offenses and the
treatment of persons convicted of such offenses by the courts”, as well as the
laws relevant to prostitution and solicitation. The Wolfenden Report of 1957,
which was supported by the Church of England,28 proposed that there ‘must
remain a realm of private morality and immorality which is, in brief and crude
terms, not the law’s business’ and recommended that homosexual acts between
two consenting adults should no longer be a criminal offence.29 19 The success
of the report led England and Wales to enact The Sexual Offences Act, 1967,
which decriminalized private homosexual sex between two men over the age of
twenty-one. Britain continued to introduce and amend laws governing same-sex
intercourse to make them more equal, including the lowering of the age of
consent for gay/bisexual men to sixteen in 2001.30 In May 2007, in a statement
to the UN Human Rights Council, the UK, which imposed criminal prohibitions
against same-sex intercourse in its former colonies across the world,
committed itself to the cause of worldwide decriminalization of
homosexuality.31 Today, India continues to enforce a law 28 Ibid at 25.
29 Report of the Departmental Committee on Homosexual Offences and
Prostitution (1957) (“Wolfenden Report”). 30 Sexual Offences (Amendment) Act
2000, Parliament of the United Kingdom. 31 Douglas, supra note 9, at page 29.
19 PART C imposed by an erstwhile colonial government, a law that has been
long done away with by the same government in its own jurisdiction.
    C.I        “Arc of the moral universe”
    20         Lord Macaulay was greatly influenced by English philosopher and jurist
Jeremy Bentham, who coined the term codification and argued for replacing
existing laws with clear, concise, and understandable provisions that could be
universally applied across the Empire.32 Ironically, in a 1785 essay, Bentham
himself wrote one of the earliest known defences of homosexuality in the
English language, arguing against the criminalization of homosexuality.
However, this essay was only discovered 200 years after his death.33 21 The
Law Commission’s 1837 draft of the Penal Code (prepared by Lord Macaulay)
contained two sections (Clauses 361 and 362), which are considered the
immediate precursors to Section 377:
> “OF UNNATURAL OFFENCES
> 361\. Whoever, intending to gratify unnatural lust, touches, for that
> purpose, any person, or any animal, or is by his own consent touched by any
> person, for the purpose of gratifying unnatural lust, shall be punished with
> imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to fourteen
> years and 32 Douglas, supra note 9, at page 9.
33 Ibid.
20 PART C must not be less than two years, and shall also be liable to fine.
362\. Whoever, intending to gratify unnatural lust, touches for that purpose
any person without that person's free and intelligent consent, shall be
punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend
to life and must not be less than seven years, and shall also be liable to
fine.” Both the draft clauses are vague in their description of the acts they
seek to criminalize. Lord Macaulay also omitted an explanation to the Clauses.
In a note presented with the 1837 draft, Lord Macaulay elaborated:
> “Clauses 361 and 362 relate to an odious class of offences respecting which
> it is desirable that as little as possible be said. We leave without comment
> to the judgment of his Lordship in Council the two Clauses which we have
> provided for these offences. We are unwilling to insert, either in the text,
> or in the notes, anything which could give rise to public discussion on this
> revolting subject; as we are decidedly of opinion that the injury which
> would be done to the morals of the community by such discussion would far
> more than compensate for any benefits which might be derived from
> legislative measures framed with the greatest precision.”34 (Emphasis
> supplied) So abominable did Macaulay consider these offences that he
> banished the thought of providing a rationale for their being made culpable.
> The prospect of a public discussion was revolting.
34 Enze Han, Joseph O'Mahoney, “British Colonialism and the Criminalization of
Homosexuality: Queens, Crime and Empire”, Routledge (2018).
21 PART C After twenty-five years of revision, the IPC entered into force on 1
January 1862, two years after Lord Macaulay’s death. The IPC was the first
codified criminal code in the British Empire. Section 377 of the revised code
read as follows:
> “Of Unnatural Offences
> 377\. Unnatural Offences.- Whoever voluntarily has carnal intercourse
> against the order of nature with any man, woman or animal, shall be punished
> with [imprisonment for life]35, or with imprisonment of either description
> for a term which may extend to ten years, and shall also be liable to fine.
Explanation.- Penetration is sufficient to constitute the carnal intercourse
necessary to the offence described in this section.” 22 The Explanation is
unique in that it requires proof of penetration – something that British Law
did not. The two clauses in the Draft Code fell somewhere in between,
requiring proof of “touch”.36 By the time India gained independence in 1947,
Britain had introduced Penal Codes similar to the IPC in other former
colonies, including Zanzibar (Tanzania) in 1867, Singapore, Malaysia, and
Brunei in 1871, Ceylon (Sri Lanka) in 1885, Burma (Myanmar) in 1886,37 East
Africa Protectorate (Kenya) 35 Changed from “transportation for life” by Act
26 of 1955. 36 Douglas, supra note 9, at page 16.
37 Nang Yin Kham, “An Introduction to the Law and Judicial System of Myanmar”,
Centre for Asia Legal Studies Faculty of Law, National University of
Singapore, Working Paper 14/02, (2014).  22 PART C in 1897, Sudan in 1889,
Uganda in 1902, and Tanganyika (Tanzania) in 1920.38 Under Article 372(1) of
the Indian Constitution, which provides that all laws in force prior to the
commencement of the Constitution shall continue to be in force until altered
or repealed, the IPC and many other pre- Independence laws were “saved” and
allowed to operate in Independent India.
23 While Section 377 has been used to prosecute non-consensual sexual acts, it
has also been used to prosecute consensual sexual acts. In (Meharban)
Nowshirwan Irani v. Emperor39, for instance, a police officer observed
Nowshirwan, a young shopkeeper, engaged in homosexual acts with a young man,
Ratansi, through a keyhole in Nowshirwan’s house. The Prosecution argued that
the acts were non-consensual, but could not prove coercion.40 The High Court
of Sindh ultimately set aside the conviction based on insufficient evidence.
Nevertheless, what should have been an intimate act between two consenting
parties in their bedroom became a public scandal and the subject of judicial
scrutiny.41 38 Supra note 34.
39 AIR 1934 Sind. 206.
40 Arvind Narrain, “‘That Despicable Specimen of Humanity’: Policing of
Homosexuality in India”, in Challenging the Rule(s) of Law: Colonialism,
Criminology and Human Rights in India (Kalpana Kannabiran and Ranbir Singh
eds.), Sage (2008).
41 Arvind Narrain, “A New Language of Morality: From the Trial of Nowshirwan
to the Judgement in Naz Foundation”, The Indian Journal of Constitutional Law,
Vol. 4 (2010).  23 PART C In D P Minwalla v. Emperor42, Minawalla and
Tajmahomed, were seen having anal intercourse in a lorry and were arrested,
charged, and found guilty under Section 377. Tajmahomed was sentenced to four
months rigorous imprisonment, and Minawalla, who was charged with abetment,
was sentenced to a fine of Rs 100 and imprisonment until the rising of the
Bench. Minawalla appealed the decision on the grounds that he was not a
consenting partner, and submitted himself to a medical exam. The judge was
unconvinced, however, and Minawalla’s original sentence was upheld. The Court,
convinced that the acts were consensual, found the men guilty under Section
377.43 In Ratan Mia v. State of Assam44, the Court convicted two men (one aged
fifteen and a half, the other twenty) under Section 377 and treated them as
equally culpable, as he was unable to cast one of them as the perpetrator and
the other as the victim or abettor. Both men were originally sentenced to
imprisonment for six months and a fine of Rs 100. After Nur had spent six
years in prison and appealed three times,45 both men's sentences were 42 AIR
1935 Sind. 78.
43 Supra note 40.
44 (1988) Cr.L.J. 980.
45 Suparna Bhaskaran, “The Politics of Penetration: Section 377 of the Indian
Penal Code” in Queering India: Same-
Sex Love and Eroticism in Indian Culture and Society (Ruth Vanita ed.),
Routledge (2002).  24 PART C reduced to seven days rigorous imprisonment, in
view of the fact that they were first time offenders under the age of twenty-
one.46 Even though the government is not proactively enforcing a law that
governs private activities, the psychological impact for homosexuals who are,
for all practical purposes, felons in waiting, is damaging in its own right:
> “...The true impact of Section 377 on queer lives is felt outside the
> courtroom and must not be measured in terms of legal cases. Numerous
> studies, including both documented and anecdotal evidence, tell us that
> Section 377 is the basis for routine and continuous violence against sexual
> minorities by the police, the medical establishment, and the state. There
> are innumerable stories that can be cited – from the everyday violence faced
> by hijras [a distinct transgender category] and kothis [effeminate males] on
> the streets of Indian cities to the refusal of the National Human Rights
> Commission to hear the case of a young man who had been given electro-shock
> therapy for nearly two years. A recent report by the People’s Union for
> Civil Liberties (Karnataka), showed that Section 377 was used by the police
> to justify practices such as illegal detention, sexual abuse and harassment,
> extortion and outing of queer people to their families.”47 Before the end of
> the 19th century, gay rights movements were few and far between. Indeed,
> when Alfred Douglas, Oscar Wilde’s lover, wrote in his 1890s poem entitled
> “Two Loves” of “the love that dare not speak its name”, he was alluding to
> society’s moral disapprobation of homosexuality.48 The 20th 46 Ibid.
47 Douglas, supra note 9, at page 21; “Introduction” to Because I Have a
Voice: Queer Politics in India, (Gautam Bhan and Arvind Narrain eds), Yoda
Press (2005) at pages 7, 8. 48 Melba Cuddy-Keane, Adam Hammond and Alexandra
Peat, “Q” in Modernism: Keywords, Wiley-Blackwell (2014).  25 PART C century,
however, saw the LGBTIQ community emerge from the shadows worldwide, poised to
agitate and demand equal civil rights. LGBTIQ movements focused on issues of
intersectionality, the interplay of oppressions arising from being both queer
and lower class, coloured, disabled, and so on. Despite the movement making
numerous strides forward in the fight for equal rights, incidents of
homosexual arrests were nevertheless extant at the turn of the 21st century.
In many cases of unfulfilled civil rights, there is a tendency to operate
under the philosophy articulated by Dr. Martin Luther King, that “the arc of
the moral universe is long, but it bends towards justice.” It is likely that
those who subscribe to this philosophy believe that homosexuals should
practice the virtue of patience, and wait for society to understand and accept
their way of life. What those who purport this philosophy fail to recognize is
that Dr King himself argued against the doctrine of “wait”:
> “For years now I have heard the word “wait.” It rings in the ear of every
> Negro with a piercing familiarity. This “wait” has almost always meant
> “never.” It has been a tranquilizing thalidomide, relieving the emotional
> stress for a moment, only to give birth to an ill-formed infant of
> frustration. We must come to see with the distinguished jurist of yesterday
> that “justice too long delayed is justice denied.” We have waited for more
> than three hundred and forty years for our God-given and constitutional
> rights . . . when you are harried by day and haunted by night by the fact
> that you are a Negro, living constantly at tiptoe stance, never knowing what
> to expect next, and plagued with inner fears and outer resentments;
26
PART C when you are forever fighting a degenerating sense of “nobodyness” --
then you will understand why we find it difficult to wait. There comes a time
when the cup of endurance runs over and men are no longer willing to be
plunged into an abyss of injustice where they experience the bleakness of
corroding despair. I hope, sirs, you can understand our legitimate and
unavoidable impatience.” (Letter from a Birmingham Jail)49 24 Indian citizens
belonging to sexual minorities have waited. They have waited and watched as
their fellow citizens were freed from the British yoke while their fundamental
freedoms remained restrained under an antiquated and anachronistic colonial-
era law – forcing them to live in hiding, in fear, and as second-class
citizens. In seeking an adjudication of the validity of Section 377, these
citizens urge that the acts which the provision makes culpable should be
decriminalised. But this case involves much more than merely decriminalising
certain conduct which has been proscribed by a colonial law. The case is about
an aspiration to realise constitutional rights. It is about a right which
every human being has, to live with dignity. It is about enabling these
citizens to realise the worth of equal citizenship. Above all, our decision
will speak to the transformative power of the Constitution. For it is in the
transformation of society that the Constitution seeks to assure the values of
a just, humane and compassionate existence to all her citizens. 49 Martin
Luther King Jr., “Letter from a Birmingham Jail” (1963).
27 PART D D An equal love “Through Love's Great Power Through love's great
power to be made whole In mind and body, heart and soul – Through freedom to
find joy, or be By dint of joy itself set free In love and in companionhood:
This is the true and natural good.
To undo justice, and to seek To quash the rights that guard the weak -
To sneer at love, and wrench apart The bonds of body, mind and heart With
specious reason and no rhyme:
This is the true unnatural crime.”50 Article 14 is our fundamental charter of
equality:
> “The State shall not deny to any person equality before the law or the equal
> protection of the laws within the territory of India.” (Emphasis supplied)
> 25 In Naz, the Delhi High Court held that Section 377 violates Article 14 of
> the Constitution since the classification on which it is based does not bear
> any nexus to the object which the provision seeks to achieve.51 In Koushal,
> this Court rejected the Naz formulation on the ground that “those who
> indulge in carnal intercourse in the ordinary course and those who ... [do
> so] against the order of nature constitute different classes.”52 Koushal
> held on that logic that 50 Vikram Seth wrote this poem the morning after the
> Supreme Court refused to review its decision in Koushal.
51 Naz Foundation, at para 91.
52 Koushal, at para 65.
28 PART D Section 377 does not suffer from arbitrariness or from an irrational
classification.
26 A litany of our decisions – to refer to them individually would be a parade
of the familiar – indicates that to be a reasonable classification under
Article 14 of the Constitution, two criteria must be met: (i) the
classification must be founded on an intelligible differentia; and (ii) the
differentia must have a rational nexus to the objective sought to be achieved
by the legislation.53 There must, in other words, be a causal connection
between the basis of classification and the object of the statute. If the
object of the classification is illogical, unfair and unjust, the
classification will be unreasonable.54 27 Equating the content of equality
with the reasonableness of a classification on which a law is based advances
the cause of legal formalism. The problem with the classification test is that
what constitutes a reasonable classification is reduced to a mere formula: the
quest for an intelligible differentia and the rational nexus to the object
sought to be achieved. In doing so, the test of classification risks elevating
form over substance. The danger inherent in legal formalism lies in its
inability to lay threadbare the values which guide the process of judging
constitutional rights. Legal formalism 53 State of West Bengal v. Anwar Ali
Sarkar, AIR (1952) SC 75. 54 Deepak Sibal v. Punjab University, (1989) 2 SCC
145.  29 PART D buries the life-giving forces of the Constitution under a mere
mantra. What it ignores is that Article 14 contains a powerful statement of
values – of the substance of equality before the law and the equal protection
of laws. To reduce it to a formal exercise of classification may miss the true
value of equality as a safeguard against arbitrariness in state action. As our
constitutional jurisprudence has evolved towards recognizing the substantive
content of liberty and equality, the core of Article 14 has emerged out of the
shadows of classification. Article 14 has a substantive content on which,
together with liberty and dignity, the edifice of the Constitution is built.
Simply put, in that avatar, it reflects the quest for ensuring fair treatment
of the individual in every aspect of human endeavor and in every facet of
human existence.
In E P Royappa v. State of Tamil Nadu55, the validity of state action was made
subject to the test of arbitrariness:
> “Equality is a dynamic concept with many aspects and dimensions and it
> cannot be “cribbed cabined and confined” within traditional and doctrinaire
> limits. From a positivistic point of view, equality is antithetic to
> arbitrariness. In fact equality and arbitrariness are sworn enemies; one
> belongs to the rule of law in a republic while the other, to the whim and
> caprice of an absolute monarch. Where an act is arbitrary it is implicit in
> it that it is unequal both according to political logic and constitutional
> law and is therefore violative of Art.14…” 55 (1974) 4 SCC 3  30 PART D Four
> decades later, the test has been refined in Shayara Bano v. Union of
> India56:
> “The expression ‘arbitrarily’ means: in an unreasonable manner, as fixed or
> done capriciously or at pleasure, without adequate determining principle,
> not founded in the nature of things, non-rational, not done or acting
> according to reason or judgment, depending on the will alone.” 28 The
> wording of Section 377 does not precisely map on to a distinction between
> homosexuals and heterosexuals but a precise interpretation would mean that
> it penalizes some forms of sexual expression among heterosexuals while
> necessarily criminalizing every form of sexual expression and intimacy
> between homosexuals.57 For Section 377 to withstand the scrutiny of Article
> 14, it was necessary for the Court in Koushal to establish the difference
> between ‘ordinary intercourse’ and ‘intercourse against the order of
> nature’, the legitimate objective being pursued and the rational nexus
> between the goal and the classification. However, the Koushal approach has
> been criticised on the ground that while dealing with Article 14, it fell
> “short of the minimum standards of judicial reasoning that may be expected
> from the Supreme Court.”58 On a review of the prosecutions under Section
> 377, Koushal conceded that “no uniform test [could] be culled out to
> classify acts 56(2017) 9 SCC 1 57Gautam Bhatia, “Equal moral membership: Naz
> Foundation and the refashioning of equality under a transformative
> constitution”, Indian Law Review, Vol. 1 (2017), at pages 115-144.
> 58 Shubhankar Dam, “Suresh Kumar Koushal and Another v. NAZ Foundation and
> Others (Civil Appeal No. 10972 of 2013)” Public Law, International Survey
> Section (2014).
31
PART D as ‘carnal intercourse against the order of nature.’”59 Yet Koushal
upheld the classification of sexual acts in Section 377 without explaining the
difference between the classes, or the justification for treating the classes
differently. This lack of reasoning and analysis by the Court has been
critiqued in scholarly research on the subject. The following extract sums up
the criticism with telling effect:
> “The Court says – without an iota of evidence – that there are two classes
> of persons – those who engage in sexual intercourse in the “ordinary
> course”, and those who don’t. What is ordinary course? Presumably,
> heterosexuality. Why is this ordinary course? Perhaps because there are more
> heterosexuals than homosexuals around, although the Court gives no evidence
> for that. Well, there are also more black- haired people in India than
> brown-haired people. Is sex with a brown-haired person against the order of
> nature because it happens less often?... Where is the rational nexus? What
> is the legitimate governmental objective? Even if we accept that there is an
> intelligible differentia here, on what basis do you criminalize – and thus
> deny equal protection of laws – to one class of persons? The Court gives no
> answer.
Alternatively, “ordinary sex” is penal-vaginal, and every other kind of sex is
“against the ordinary course of nature”. Again, no evidence to back that claim
up apart from the say-so of the judge.”60 At the very outset, we must
understand the problem with the usage of the term ‘order of nature’. What is
‘natural’ and what is ‘unnatural’? And who decides the categorization into
these two ostensibly distinct and water-tight compartments? Do we allow the
state to draw the boundaries between 59 Koushal, at para 60.
60 Gautam Bhatia, “The Unbearable Wrongness of Koushal vs Naz Foundation”,
Indian Constitutional Law and Philosophy (2013).
32 PART D permissible and impermissible intimacies between consenting adults?
Homosexuality has been documented in almost 1500 species, who “unfortunately
are not blessed with rational capabilities (and the propensity to ‘nurture’
same sex thoughts) as are found in mankind.”61 An interesting article in this
regard notes that, “no species has been found in which homosexual behaviour
has not been shown to exist, with the exception of species that never have sex
at all, such as sea urchins and aphis.”62 29 In an incisive article,63
Ambrosino discusses the shift from reproductive instinct to erotic desire and
how crucial this shift is to understanding modern notions of sexuality. He
analyses how the lines between homosexuality and heterosexuality are blurred,
and perhaps even an outdated myth or invention when we understand the fluidity
of sexual identities today:64 ““No one knows exactly why heterosexuals and
homosexuals ought to be different,” wrote Wendell Ricketts, author of the 1984
study Biological Research on Homosexuality. The best answer we’ve got is
something of a tautology: “heterosexuals and homosexuals are considered
different because they can be divided into two groups on the basis of the
belief that they can be divided into two groups.” Though the hetero/homo
divide seems like an eternal, indestructible fact of nature, it simply isn’t.
It’s merely one recent grammar humans have invented to talk about what sex
means to us.” 61 Shamnad Basheer, Sroyon Mukherjee and Karthy Nair, “Section
377 and the ‘Order of Nature’: Nurturing ‘Indeterminacy’ in the Law”, NUJS Law
Review, Vol, 2 (2009). 62 Bruce Bagemihl, Biological Exuberance: Animal
Homosexuality and Natural Diversity, Stonewall Inn Editions (2000).
63 Brandon Ambrosino, “The Invention of Heterosexuality”, British Broadcasting
Company, 26 March, 2017. 64 Ibid.
33 PART D He questions the elevated status of ‘normalcy’ in the following
words:
> “Normal” is a loaded word, of course, and it has been misused throughout
> history. Hierarchical ordering leading to slavery was at one time accepted
> as normal, as was a geocentric cosmology. It was only by questioning the
> foundations of the consensus view that “normal” phenomena were dethroned
> from their privileged positions.” There are obvious shortcomings of the
> human element in the judgment of natural and unnatural:
> “Why judge what is natural and ethical to a human being by his or her animal
> nature? Many of the things human beings value, such as medicine and art, are
> egregiously unnatural. At the same time, humans detest many things that
> actually are eminently natural, like disease and death. If we consider some
> naturally occurring phenomena ethical and others unethical, that means our
> minds (the things looking) are determining what to make of nature (the
> things being looked at). Nature doesn’t exist somewhere “out there,”
> independently of us – we’re always already interpreting it from the inside.”
> It has been argued that “the ‘naturalness’ and omnipresence of
> heterosexuality is manufactured by an elimination of historical
> specificities about the organisation, regulation and deployment of sexuality
> across time and space.”65 It is thus this “closeting of history” that
> produces the “hegemonic heterosexual” - the ideological construction of a
> particular alignment of sex, gender and desire that posits itself as
> natural, inevitable and eternal.66 Heterosexuality becomes the site where
> the male sexed masculine man’s desire for the female sexed feminine woman is
> privileged over all other forms 65 Zaid Al Baset, “Section 377 and the Myth
> of Heterosexuality”, Jindal Global Law Review, Vol. 4 (2012).
> 66 Ibid.
34
PART D of sexual desire and becomes a pervasive norm that structures all
societal structures.67 The expression ‘carnal’ is susceptible to a wide range
of meanings. Among them are:
“sexual, sensual, erotic, lustful, lascivious, libidinous, lecherous,
licentious, lewd, prurient, salacious, coarse, gross, lubricious, venereal.”
That’s not all. The word incorporates meanings such as: “physical, bodily,
corporeal and of the flesh.” The late Middle English origin of ‘carnal’
derives from Christian Latin ‘carnalis’, from caro, carn – ‘flesh’. At one end
of the spectrum ‘carnal’ embodies something which relates to the physical
feelings and desires of the body. In another sense, the word implies ‘a
relation to the body or flesh as the state of basic physical appetites’. In a
pejorative sense, it conveys grossness or lewdness. The simple question which
we need to ask ourselves is whether liberty and equality can be made to depend
on such vagueness of expression and indeterminacy of content. Section 377 is
based on a moral notion that intercourse which is lustful is to be frowned
upon. It finds the sole purpose of intercourse in procreation. In doing so, it
imposes criminal sanctions upon basic human urges, by targeting 67 Ibid.
35 PART D some of them as against the order of nature. It does so, on the
basis of a social hypocrisy which the law embraces as its own. It would have
human beings lead sanitized lives, in which physical relationships are
conditioned by a moral notion of what nature does or does not ordain. It would
have human beings accept a way of life in which sexual contact without
procreation is an aberration and worse still, penal. It would ask of a section
of our citizens that while love, they may, the physical manifestation of their
love is criminal. This is manifest arbitrariness writ large.
If it is difficult to locate any intelligible differentia between
indeterminate terms such as ‘natural’ and ‘unnatural’, then it is even more
problematic to say that a classification between individuals who supposedly
engage in ‘natural’ intercourse and those who engage in ‘carnal intercourse
against the order of nature’ can be legally valid.
In addition to the problem regarding the indeterminacy of the terms, there is
a logical fallacy in ascribing legality or illegality to the ostensibly
universal meanings of ‘natural’ and ‘unnatural’ as is pointed out in a
scholarly article.68 Basheer, et al make this point effectively:
> “From the fact that something occurs naturally, it does not necessarily
> follow that it is socially desirable. Similarly, acts that are commonly
> perceived to be ‘unnatural’ may not necessarily deserve legal sanction.
> Illustratively, consider a 68 Supra note 61.
36
PART D person who walks on his hands all the time. Although this may be
unnatural, it is certainly not deserving of legal censure.
…In fact, several activities that might be seen to contravene the order of
nature (heart transplants, for example) are beneficial and desirable. Even if
an unnatural act is harmful to the extent that it justifies criminal sanctions
being imposed against it, the reason for proscribing such an act would be that
the act is harmful, and not that it is unnatural.” Indeed, there is no cogent
reasoning to support the idea that behaviour that may be uncommon on the basis
of mere statistical probability is necessarily abnormal and must be deemed
ethically or morally wrong.69 Even behaviour that may be considered wrong or
unnatural cannot be criminalised without sufficient justification given the
penal consequences that follow. Section 377 becomes a blanket offence that
covers supposedly all types of non- procreative ‘natural’ sexual activity
without any consideration given to the notions of consent and harm.
30 The meaning of ‘natural’ as understood in cases such as Khanu v. Emperor70,
which interpreted natural sex to mean only sex that would lead to procreation,
would lead to absurd consequences. Some of the consequences have been pointed
out thus:
> “The position of the court was thus that ‘natural’ sexual intercourse is
> restricted not only to heterosexual coitus, but further only to acts that
> might possibly result in conception.
69 Sex, Morality and the Law, (Lori Gruen and George Panichas eds.), Routledge
(1996). 70 AIR (1925) Sind. 286  37 PART D Such a formulation of the concept
of ‘natural’ sex excludes not only the use of contraception, which is likely
to have fallen outside the hegemonic view of normative sexuality at the time,
but also heterosexual coitus where one or both partners are infertile, or
during the ‘safe’ period of a woman’s menstrual cycle. It is perhaps
unnecessary to state that the formulation also excludes oral sex between
heterosexual partners and any homosexual act whatsoever.”71 The indeterminacy
and vagueness of the terms ‘carnal intercourse’ and ‘order of nature’ renders
Section 377 constitutionally infirm as violating the equality clause in
Article 14.
While it is evident that the classification is invalid, it is useful to
understand its purported goal by looking at the legislative history of Section
377. In Macaulay’s first draft of the Penal Code, the predecessor to present
day Section 377 was Clause 36172 which provided a severe punishment for
touching another for the purpose of ‘unnatural’ lust. Macaulay abhorred the
idea of any debate or discussion on this ‘heinous crime’. India’s anti-sodomy
law was conceived, legislated and enforced by the British without any kind of
public discussion.73 So abhorrent was homosexuality to the moral notions which
he espoused, that Macaulay believed that the idea of a discussion was 71
Andrew Davis, “The Framing of Sex: Evaluating Judicial Discourse on the
'Unnatural Offences'”, Alternative Law Journal, Vol. 5 (2006).
72 Clause 361 stated “Whoever, intending to gratify unnatural lust, touches,
for that purpose, any person, or any animal, or is by his own consent touched
by any person, for the purpose of gratifying unnatural lust, shall be punished
with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to
fourteen years and must not be less than two years, and shall also be liable
to fine.” 73 Alok Gupta, “Section 377 and the Dignity of Indian Homosexuals”
The Economic and Political Weekly, Vol. 41 (2006).
38 PART D repulsive. Section 377 reveals only the hatred, revulsion and
disgust of the draftsmen towards certain intimate choices of fellow human
beings. The criminalization of acts in Section 377 is not based on a legally
valid distinction, “but on broad moral proclamations that certain kinds of
people, singled out by their private choices, are less than citizens – or less
than human.”74 31 The Naz judgement has been criticised on the ground that
even though it removed private acts between consenting adults from the purview
of Section 377, it still retained the section along with its problematic
terminology regarding the ‘order of nature’:75 “…even though the acts would
not be criminal, they would still be categorized as “unnatural” in the law.
This is not an idle terminological issue. As Durkheim noted over a hundred
years ago, the law also works as a tool that expresses social relations.76
Hence, this expression itself is problematic from a dignitarian standpoint,
otherwise so eloquently referred to by the judgement.” At this point, we look
at some of the legislative changes that have taken place in India’s criminal
law since the enactment of the Penal Code. The Criminal Law (Amendment) Act
2013 imported certain understandings of the concept of sexual intercourse into
its expansive definition of rape in Section 375 of the Indian Penal Code,
which now goes beyond penile–vaginal penetrative 74 Supra note 25.
75 John Sebastian, “The opposite of unnatural intercourse: understanding
Section 377 through Section 375, Indian Law Review, Vol. 1 (2018).
76 Emile Durkheim, The Division of Labour in Society, Macmillan (1984).  39
PART D intercourse.77 It has been argued that if ‘sexual intercourse’ now
includes many acts which were covered under Section 377, those acts are
clearly not ‘against the order of nature’ anymore. They are, in fact, part of
the changed meaning of sexual intercourse itself. This means that much of
Section 377 has not only been rendered redundant but that the very word
‘unnatural’ cannot have the meaning that was attributed to it before the 2013
amendment.78 Section 375 defines the expression rape in an expansive sense, to
include any one of several acts committed by a man in relation to a woman. The
offence of rape is established if those acts are committed against her will or
without the free consent of the woman. Section 375 is a clear indicator that
in a heterosexual context, certain physical acts between a man and woman are
excluded from the operation of penal law if they are consenting adults. Many
of these acts which would have been within the purview of Section 377, stand
77 375. A man is said to commit “rape” if he- (a) penetrates his penis, to any
extent, into the vagina, mouth, urethra or anus of a woman or makes her to do
so with him or any other person; or (b) inserts, to any extent, any object or
a part of the body, not being the penis, into the vagina, the urethra or anus
of a woman or makes her to do so with him or any other person; or (c)
manipulates any part of the body of a woman so as to cause penetration into
the vagina, urethra, anus or any part of body of such woman or makes her to do
so with him or any other person; or
(d) applies his mouth to the vagina, anus, urethra of a woman or makes her to
do so with him or any other person, under the circumstances falling under any
of the following seven descriptions:— First.—Against her will.
Secondly.—Without her consent. Thirdly.—With her consent, when her consent has
been obtained by putting her or any person in whom she is interested, in fear
of death or of hurt. Fourthly.—With her consent, when the man knows that he is
not her husband and that her consent is given because she believes that he is
another man to whom she is or believes herself to be lawfully married.
Fifthly.—With her consent when, at the time of giving such consent, by reason
of unsoundness of mind or intoxication or the administration by him personally
or through another of any stupefying or unwholesome substance, she is unable
to understand the nature and consequences of that to which she gives consent
Sixthly.—With or without her consent, when she is under eighteen years of age.
Seventhly.—When she is unable to communicate consent. Explanation 1.—For the
purposes of this section, "vagina" shall also include labia majora.
Explanation 2.—Consent means an unequivocal voluntary agreement when the woman
by words, gestures or any form of verbal or non-verbal communication,
communicates willingness to participate in the specific sexual act: Provided
that a woman who does not physically resist to the act of penetration shall
not by the reason only of that fact, be regarded as consenting to the sexual
activity. Exception 1.—A medical procedure or intervention shall not
constitute rape. Exception 2.—Sexual intercourse or sexual acts by a man with
his own wife, the wife not being under fifteen years of age, is not rape. 78
Supra note 75, at pages 232-249.
40 PART D excluded from criminal liability when they take place in the course
of consensual heterosexual contact. Parliament has ruled against them being
regarded against the ‘order of nature’, in the context of Section 375. Yet
those acts continue to be subject to criminal liability, if two adult men or
women were to engage in consensual sexual contact. This is a violation of
Article 14. Nivedita Menon opposes the idea that ‘normal’ sexuality springs
from nature and argues that this idea of ‘normal’ sexuality is a cultural and
social construct:79 “Consider the possibility that rules of sexual conduct are
as arbitrary as traffic rules, created by human societies to maintain a
certain sort of order, and which could differ from place to place -- for
example, you drive on the left in India and on the right in the USA. Further,
let us say you question the sort of social order that traffic rules keep in
place. Say you believe that traffic rules in Delhi are the product of a model
of urban planning that privileges the rich and penalizes the poor, that this
order encourages petrol-consuming private vehicles and discourages forms of
transport that are energy-saving -- cycles, public transport, pedestrians. You
would then question that model of the city that forces large numbers of
inhabitants to travel long distances every day simply to get to school
andwork. You could debate the merits of traffic rules and urban planning on
the grounds of convenience, equity and sustainability of natural resources --
at least, nobody could seriously argue that any set of traffic rules is
natural.” 32 The struggle of citizens belonging to sexual minorities is
located within the larger history of the struggles against various forms of
social subordination 79 Nivedita Menon, “How Natural is Normal? Feminism and
Compulsory Heterosexuality”, In Because I have a Voice, Queer Politics in
India, (Narrain and Bhan eds.) Yoda Press (2005).  41 PART E in India. The
order of nature that Section 377 speaks of is not just about non- procreative
sex but is about forms of intimacy which the social order finds
“disturbing”.80 This includes various forms of transgression such as inter-
caste and inter-community relationships which are sought to be curbed by
society. What links LGBT individuals to couples who love across caste and
community lines is the fact that both are exercising their right to love at
enormous personal risk and in the process disrupting existing lines of social
authority.81 Thus, a re-imagination of the order of nature as being not only
about the prohibition of non-procreative sex but instead about the limits
imposed by structures such as gender, caste, class, religion and community
makes the right to love not just a separate battle for LGBT individuals, but a
battle for all.82 E Beyond physicality: sex, identity and stereotypes “Only in
the most technical sense is this a case about who may penetrate whom where. At
a practical and symbolical level it is about the status, moral citizenship and
sense of self- worth of a significant section of the community. At a more
general and conceptual level, it concerns the nature of the open, democratic
and pluralistic society contemplated by the Constitution.”83 80 Supra note 7.
81 Ibid.
82 Supra note 7.
83 The National Coalition for Gay and Lesbian Equality v. The Minister of
Justice, 1999 (1) SA 6 (CC), Sachs J., concurring.
42 PART E 33 The Petitioners contend that (i) Section 377 discriminates on the
basis of sex and violates Articles 15 and 16; and (ii) Discrimination on the
ground of sexual orientation is in fact, discrimination on the ground of sex.
The intervenors argue that (i) Section 377 criminalizes acts and not people;
(ii) It is not discriminatory because the prohibition on anal and oral sex
applies equally to both heterosexual and homosexual couples; and (iii) Article
15 prohibits discrimination on the ground of ‘sex’ which cannot be interpreted
so broadly as to include ‘sexual orientation’.
34 When the constitutionality of a law is challenged on the ground that it
violates the guarantees in Part III of the Constitution, what is determinative
is its effect on the infringement of fundamental rights.84 This affords the
guaranteed freedoms their true potential against a claim by the state that the
infringement of the right was not the object of the provision. It is not the
object of the law which impairs the rights of the citizens. Nor is the form of
the action taken determinative of the protection that can be claimed. It is
the effect of the law upon the fundamental right which calls the courts to
step in and remedy the violation. The individual is aggrieved because the law
hurts. The hurt to the individual is measured by the violation of a protected
right. Hence, while 84 Re. the Kerala Education Bill, AIR 1958 SC 956 at para
26; Sakal Papers v Union of India, AIR 1962 SC 305 at para 42; R.C. Cooper v
Union of India, (1970) 1 SCC 248 at paras 43, 49; Bennett Coleman v. Union of
India, AIR (1972) 2 SCC 788 at para 39; Maneka Gandhi v Union of India, (1978)
1 SCC 248 at para 19.  43 PART E assessing whether a law infringes a
fundamental right, it is not the intention of the lawmaker that is
determinative, but whether the effect or operation of the law infringes
fundamental rights.
Article 15 of the Constitution reads thus:
> “15. (1) The State shall not discriminate against any citizen on grounds
> only of religion, race, caste, sex, place of birth or any of them.”
> (Emphasis supplied) Article 15 prohibits the State from discriminating on
> grounds only of sex. Early judicial pronouncements adjudged whether
> discrimination aimed only at sex is covered by Article 15 or whether the
> guarantee is attracted even to a discrimination on the basis of sex and some
> other grounds (‘Sex plus’). The argument was that since Article 15
> prohibited discrimination on only specified grounds, discrimination
> resulting from a specified ground coupled with other considerations is not
> prohibited. The view was that if the discrimination is justified on the
> grounds of sex and another factor, it would not be covered by the
> prohibition in Article 15.
35 One of the earliest cases decided in 1951 was by the Calcutta High Court in
Sri Sri Mahadev Jiew v. Dr. B B Sen85. Under Order XXV, R. 1 of the Code of
Civil Procedure, men could be made liable for paying a security 85 AIR (1951)
Cal. 563.
44 PART E cost if they did not possess sufficient movable property in India
only if they were residing outside India. However, women were responsible for
paying such security, regardless of whether or not they were residing in
India. In other words, the law drew a distinction between resident males who
did not have sufficient immovable property, and resident females who did not
have sufficient immovable property. Upholding the provision, the Calcutta High
Court held:
“31. Article 15(1) of the Constitution pro-vides, inter alia, --
The State shall not discriminate against any citizen on grounds only of sex.
The word ‘only’ in this Article is of great importance and significance which
should not be missed. The impugned law must be shown to discriminate because
of sex alone. If other factors in addition to sex come into play in making the
discriminatory law, then such discrimination does not, in my judgment, come
within the provision of Article 15(1) of the Constitution.” (Emphasis
supplied) This interpretation was upheld by this Court in Air India v. Nergesh
Meerza (“Nergesh Meerza”).86 Regulations 46 and 47 of the Air India Employees’
Service Regulations were challenged for causing a disparity between the pay
and promotional opportunities of men and women in-flight cabin crew. Under
Regulation 46, while the retirement age for male Flight Pursers was fifty
eight, Air Hostesses were required to retire at thirty five, or on marriage
(if they married within four years of joining service), or on their first
pregnancy, whichever occurred earlier. This period could be extended in the 86
(1981) 4 SCC 335  45 PART E absolute discretion of the Managing Director. Even
though the two cadres were constituted on the grounds of sex, the Court upheld
the Regulations in part and opined:
> “68. Even otherwise, what Articles 15(1) and 16(2) prohibit is that
> discrimination should not be made only and only on the ground of sex. These
> Articles of the Constitution do not prohibit the State from making
> discrimination on the ground of sex coupled with other considerations.”
> (Emphasis supplied) 36 This formalistic interpretation of Article 15 would
> render the constitutional guarantee against discrimination meaningless. For
> it would allow the State to claim that the discrimination was based on sex
> and another ground (‘Sex plus’) and hence outside the ambit of Article 15.
> Latent in the argument of the discrimination, are stereotypical notions of
> the differences between men and women which are then used to justify the
> discrimination.
This narrow view of Article 15 strips the prohibition on discrimination of its
essential content. This fails to take into account the intersectional nature
of sex discrimination, which cannot be said to operate in isolation of other
identities, especially from the socio-political and economic context. For
example, a rule that people over six feet would not be employed in the army
would be able to stand an attack on its disproportionate impact on women if it
was maintained that the discrimination is on the basis of sex and height. Such
46 PART E a formalistic view of the prohibition in Article 15, rejects the
true operation of discrimination, which intersects varied identities and
characteristics. 37 A divergent note was struck by this Court in Anuj Garg v.
Hotel Association of India87. Section 30 of the Punjab Excise Act, 1914
prohibited the employment of women (and men under 25 years) in premises where
liquor or other intoxicating drugs were consumed by the public. Striking down
the law as suffering from “incurable fixations of stereotype morality and
conception of sexual role”, the Court held:
> “42… one issue of immediate relevance in such cases is the effect of the
> traditional cultural norms as also the state of general ambience in the
> society which women have to face while opting for an employment which is
> otherwise completely innocuous for the male counterpart...” “43…It is
> state’s duty to ensure circumstances of safety which inspire confidence in
> women to discharge the duty freely in accordance to the requirements of the
> profession they choose to follow. Any other policy inference (such as the
> one embodied under section 30) from societal conditions would be oppressive
> on the women and against the privacy rights.” (Emphasis supplied) The Court
> recognized that traditional cultural norms stereotype gender roles.
These stereotypes are premised on assumptions about socially ascribed roles of
gender which discriminate against women. The Court held that “insofar as
governmental policy is based on the aforesaid cultural norms, it is 87(2008) 3
SCC 1  47 PART E constitutionally invalid.” In the same line, the Court also
cited with approval, the judgments of the US Supreme Court in Frontiero v.
Richardson88, and United States v. Virginia89, and Justice Marshall’s dissent
in Dothard v. Rawlinson90, The Court grounded the anti-stereotyping principle
as firmly rooted in the prohibition under Article 15.
In National Legal Services Authority v. Union of India (“NALSA”)91, while
dealing with the rights of transgender persons under the Constitution, this
Court opined:
> “66. Articles 15 and 16 sought to prohibit discrimination on the basis of
> sex, recognizing that sex discrimination is a historical fact and needs to
> be addressed.
Constitution makers, it can be gathered, gave emphasis to the fundamental
right against sex discrimination so as to prevent the direct or indirect
attitude to treat people differently, for the reason of not being in
conformity with stereotypical generalizations of binary genders. Both gender
and biological attributes constitute distinct components of sex. Biological
characteristics, of course, include genitals, chromosomes and secondary sexual
features, but gender attributes include one’s self image, the deep
psychological or emotional sense of sexual identity and character. The
discrimination on the ground of ‘sex’ Under 88 411 U.S. 677 (1973). The case
concerned a statute that allowed service-members to claim additional benefits
if their spouse was dependent on them. A male claimant would automatically be
entitled to such benefits while a female claimant would have to prove that her
spouse was dependent on her for more than half his support. The Court struck
down this statute stating that the legislation violated the equal protection
clause of the American Constitution.
89 518 U.S. 515 (1996). The case concerned the Virginia Military Institute
(VMI), which had a stated objected of producing “citizen-soldiers.” However,
it did not admit women. The Court held that such a provision was
unconstitutional and that there were no “fixed notions concerning the roles
and abilities of males and females.” 90 433 U.S. 321 (1977).The case concerned
an effective bar on females for the position of guards or correctional
counsellors in the Alabama State Penitentiary system. Justice Marshall’s
dissent held that prohibition of women in ‘contact positions’ violated the
Title VII guarantee.
    91    (2014) 5 SCC 438
                                                              48
                                                                                PART E
Articles 15 and 16, therefore, includes discrimination on the ground of gender
identity.” (Emphasis supplied) This approach, in my view, is correct.
In Nergesh Meerza, this Court held that where persons of a particular class,
in view of the “special attributes, qualities” are treated differently in
‘public interest’, such a classification would not be discriminatory. The
Court opined that since the modes of recruitment, promotional avenues and
other matters were different for Air Hostesses, they constituted a class
separate from male Flight Pursers. This, despite noting that “a perusal of the
job functions which have been detailed in the affidavit, clearly shows that
the functions of the two, though obviously different overlap on some points
but the difference, if any, is one of degree rather than of kind.” 38 The
Court did not embark on the preliminary enquiry as to whether the initial
classification between the two cadres, being grounded in sex, was violative of
the constitutional guarantee against discrimination. Referring specifically to
the three significant disabilities that the Regulations imposed on Air
Hostesses, the Court held that “there can be no doubt that these peculiar
conditions do form part of the Regulations governing Air Hostesses but once we
have held that Air Hostesses form a separate category with different and  49
PART E separate incidents the circumstances pointed out by the petitioners
cannot amount to discrimination so as to violate Article 14 of the
Constitution on this ground.” 39 The basis of the classification was that only
men could become male Flight Pursers and only women could become Air
Hostesses. The very constitution of the cadre was based on sex. What this
meant was, that to pass the non-discrimination test found in Article 15, the
State merely had to create two separate classes based on sex and constitute
two separate cadres. That would not be discriminatory.
The Court went a step ahead and opined:
> “80…Thus, the Regulation permits an AH to marry at the age of 23 if she has
> joined the service at the age of 19 which is by all standards a very sound
> and salutary provision. Apart from improving the health of the employee, it
> helps a good in the promotion and boosting up of our family planning
> programme. Secondly, if a woman marries near about the age of 20 to 23
> years, she becomes fully mature and there is every chance of such a marriage
> proving a success, all things being equal. Thirdly, it has been rightly
> pointed out to us by the Corporation that if the bar of marriage within four
> years of service is removed then the Corporation will have to incur huge
> expenditure in recruiting additional AHs either on a temporary or on ad hoc
> basis to replace the working AHs if they conceive and any period short of
> four years would be too little a time for the Corporation to phase out such
> an ambitious plan.” (Emphasis supplied)  50 PART E 40 A strong stereotype
> underlines the judgment. The Court did not recognize that men were not
> subject to the same standards with respect to marriage. It holds that the
> burdens of health and family planning rest solely on women. This perpetuates
> the notion that the obligations of raising family are those solely of the
> woman. In dealing with the provision for termination of service on the first
> pregnancy, the Court opined that a substituted provision for termination on
> the third pregnancy would be in the “larger interest of the health of the
> Air Hostesses concerned as also for the good upbringing of the children.”
> Here again, the Court’s view rested on a stereotype. The patronizing
> attitude towards the role of women compounds the difficulty in accepting the
> logic of Nergesh Meerza. This approach, in my view, is patently incorrect.
41 A discriminatory act will be tested against constitutional values. A
discrimination will not survive constitutional scrutiny when it is grounded in
and perpetuates stereotypes about a class constituted by the grounds
prohibited in Article 15(1). If any ground of discrimination, whether direct
or indirect is founded on a stereotypical understanding of the role of the
sex, it would not be distinguishable from the discrimination which is
prohibited by Article 15 on the grounds only of sex. If certain
characteristics grounded in stereotypes, are to be associated with entire
classes of people constituted as groups by any of the grounds prohibited in
Article 15(1), that cannot establish  51 PART E a permissible reason to
discriminate. Such a discrimination will be in violation of the constitutional
guarantee against discrimination in Article 15(1). That such a discrimination
is a result of grounds rooted in sex and other considerations, can no longer
be held to be a position supported by the intersectional understanding of how
discrimination operates. This infuses Article 15 with true rigour to give it a
complete constitutional dimension in prohibiting discrimination.
The approach adopted the Court in Nergesh Meerza, is incorrect. A provision
challenged as being ultra vires the prohibition of discrimination on the
grounds only of sex under Article 15(1) is to be assessed not by the objects
of the state in enacting it, but by the effect that the provision has on
affected individuals and on their fundamental rights. Any ground of
discrimination, direct or indirect, which is founded on a particular
understanding of the role of the sex, would not be distinguishable from the
discrimination which is prohibited by Article 15 on the grounds only of sex.
E.I Facial neutrality: through the looking glass 42 The moral belief which
underlies Section 377 is that sexual activities which do not result in
procreation are against the ‘order of nature’ and ought  52 PART E to be
criminalized under Section 377. The intervenors submit that Section 377,
criminalizes anal and oral sex by heterosexual couples as well. Hence, it is
urged that Section 377 applies equally to all conduct against the ‘order of
nature’, irrespective of sexual orientation. This submission is incorrect. In
NALSA this Court held that Section 377, though associated with specific sexual
acts, highlights certain identities. In Naz, the Delhi High Court demonstrated
effectively how Section 377 though facially neutral in its application to
certain acts, targets specific communities in terms of its impact:
> “Section 377 IPC is facially neutral and it apparently targets not
> identities but acts, but in its operation it does end up unfairly targeting
> a particular community. The fact is that these sexual acts which are
> criminalised are associated more closely with one class of persons, namely,
> the homosexuals as a class. Section 377 IPC has the effect of viewing all
> gay men as criminals. When everything associated with homosexuality is
> treated as bent, queer, repugnant, the whole gay and lesbian community is
> marked with deviance and perversity. They are subject to extensive prejudice
> because what they are or what they are perceived to be, not because of what
> they do. The result is that a significant group of the population is,
> because of its sexual nonconformity, persecuted, marginalised and turned in
> on itself.”92 (Emphasis supplied) To this end, it chronicled the experiences
> of the victims of Section 377, relying on the extensive records and
> affidavits submitted by the Petitioners that brought to fore instances of
> custodial rape and torture, social boycott, degrading and inhuman treatment
> and incarceration. The court concluded that while Section 377 criminalized
> conduct, it created a systemic pattern of 92 Naz, at para 94.
53
PART E disadvantage, exclusion and indignity for the LGBT community, and for
individuals who indulge in non-heterosexual conduct. 43 Jurisprudence across
national frontiers supports the principle that facially neutral action by the
State may have a disproportionate impact upon a particular class. In Europe,
Directive 2006/54/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 5 July
2006 defines ‘indirect discrimination’ as: “where an apparently neutral
provision, criterion or practice would put persons of one sex at a particular
disadvantage compared with persons of the other sex, unless that provision,
criterion or practice is objectively justified by a legitimate aim, and the
means of achieving that aim are appropriate and necessary.” In Griggs v Duke
Power Co.93, the US Supreme Court, whilst recognizing that African-Americans
received sub-standard education due to segregated schools, opined that the
requirement of an aptitude/intelligence test disproportionately affected
African-American candidates. The Court held that “The Civil Rights Act”
proscribes not only overt discrimination but also practices that are fair in
form, but discriminatory in operation.” 93 401 U.S. 424 (1971)  54 PART E In
Bilka-Kaufhaus GmbH v. Karin Weber von Hartz94, the European Court of Justice
held that denying pensions to part-time employees is more likely to affect
women, as women were more likely to take up part-time jobs. The Court noted:
> “Article 119 of the EEC Treaty is infringed by a department store company
> which excludes part-time employees from its occupational pension scheme,
> where that exclusion affects a far greater number of women than men, unless
> the undertaking shows that the exclusion is based on objectively justified
> factors unrelated to any discrimination on grounds of sex.” (Emphasis
> supplied) The Canadian Supreme Court endorsed the notion of a disparate
> impact where an action has a disproportionate impact on a class of persons.
> In Andrews v. Law Society of British Columbia95, the Court noted:
> “Discrimination is a distinction which, whether intentional or not but based
> on grounds relating to personal characteristics of the individual or group,
> has an effect which imposes disadvantages not imposed upon others or which
> withholds or limits access to advantages available to other members of
> society. Distinctions based on personal characteristics attributed to an
> individual solely on the basis of association with a group will rarely
> escape the charge of discrimination, while those based on an individual's
> merits and capacities will rarely be so classed.” (Emphasis supplied) Thus,
> when an action has “the effect of imposing burdens, obligations, or
> disadvantages on such individual or group not imposed upon others, or which
> 94 (1986) ECR 1607 95 (1989) 1 SCR 143  55 PART E withholds or limits access
> to opportunities, benefits, and advantages available to other members of
> society”,96 it would be suspect.
> In City Council of Pretoria v. Walker97, the Constitutional Court of South
> Africa observed:
> “The concept of indirect discrimination, … was developed precisely to deal
> with situations where discrimination lay disguised behind apparently neutral
> criteria or where persons already adversely hit by patterns of historic
> subordination had their disadvantage entrenched or intensified by the impact
> of measures not overtly intended to prejudice them.
> In many cases, particularly those in which indirect discrimination is
> alleged, the protective purpose would be defeated if the persons complaining
> of discrimination had to prove not only that they were unfairly
> discriminated against but also that the unfair discrimination was
> intentional. This problem would be particularly acute in cases of indirect
> discrimination where there is almost always some purpose other than a
> discriminatory purpose involved in the conduct or action to which objection
> is taken.” (Emphasis supplied) E.2 Deconstructing the polarities of binary
> genders 44 Section 377 criminalizes behaviour that does not conform to the
> heterosexual expectations of society. In doing so it perpetuates a symbiotic
> relationship between anti-homosexual legislation and traditional gender
> roles.
96 Ibid.
97 (1998) 3 BCLR 257  56 PART E The notion that the nature of relationships is
fixed and within the ‘order of nature’ is perpetuated by gender roles, thus
excluding homosexuality from the narrative. The effect is described as
follows:
> “Cultural homophobia thus discourages social behavior that appears to
> threaten the stability of heterosexual gender roles.
These dual normative standards of social and sexual behavior construct the
image of a gay man as abnormal because he deviates from the masculine gender
role by subjecting himself in the sexual act to another man.”98 If individuals
as well as society hold strong beliefs about gender roles – that men (to be
characteristically reductive) are unemotional, socially dominant, breadwinners
that are attracted to women and women are emotional, socially submissive,
caretakers that are attracted to men – it is unlikely that such persons or
society at large will accept that the idea that two men or two women could
maintain a relationship. If such a denial is further grounded in a law, such
as Article 377 the effect is to entrench the belief that homosexuality is an
aberration that falls outside the ‘normal way of life.’ 45 An instructive
article by Zachary A. Kramer,99 notes that a heterosexist society both expects
and requires men and women to engage in only opposite-sex sexual
relationships. The existence of same-sex relationships is, 98 Elvia R.
Arriola, “Gendered Inequality: Lesbians, Gays, and Feminist Legal Theory”,
Berkeley Women’s Law Journal, Vol. 9 (1994), at pages 103-143.
99 Zachary A. Kramer, “The Ultimate Gender Stereotype: Equalizing Gender-
Conforming and Gender-Nonconforming Homosexuals under Title VII”, University
of Illinois Law Review (2004), at page 490.  57 PART E therefore, repugnant to
heterosexist societal expectations. Kramer argues that:
> “Discrimination against gays and lesbians reinforces traditional sex roles.
> The primary thrust of such discrimination is the gender-based stigmatization
> of gays and lesbians, deriving from the idea that homosexuality departs from
> traditional gender roles and that “real” men and women should not be
> attracted to a member of the same sex. This portrayal relies heavily on what
> Bennett Capers calls the “binary gender system.”100 46 Bennett Capers
> defines the binary gender system as based in “heterosexism,” which he
> defines as the “institutionalized valorization of heterosexual activity.”
> Capers, in fact suggests that:
> “The sanctioning of discrimination based on sexual orientation perpetuates
> the subordination not only of lesbians and gays but of women as well.
> Heterosexism, then, in its reliance on a bipolar system of sex and gender,
> reinforces sexism in two ways. First, by penalizing persons who do not
> conform to a bipolar gender system and rewarding men and women who do, the
> heterosexist hegemony perpetuates a schema that valorizes passive, dependent
> women, thus contributing to sexism. Second, heterosexism reinforces sexism
> because it subordinates the female sex through its hierarchical polarity.
> Because heterosexism perpetuates sexism, the extension of substantial rights
> to lesbians and gays, who by definition challenge heterosexism and the
> concept of a binary gender system, would result in a challenge to sexism and
> to male power.” 101 100 Ibid.
101 Bennett Capers, “Note, Sexual Orientation and Title VII”, Columbia Law
Review (1991), at pages 1159, 1160, 1163\.
58 PART E In other words, one cannot simply separate discrimination based on
sexual orientation and discrimination based on sex because discrimination
based on sexual orientation inherently promulgates ideas about stereotypical
notions of sex and gender roles. Taking this further, Andrew Koppelman argues
that:
> “Similarly, sodomy laws discriminate on the basis of sex-for example,
> permitting men, but not women, to have sex with women-in order to impose
> traditional sex roles. The Court has deemed this purpose impermissible in
> other contexts because it perpetuates the subordination of women. The same
> concern applies with special force to the sodomy laws, because their
> function is to maintain the polarities of gender on which the subordination
> of women depends.”102 Koppelman thus suggests that the taboo against
> homosexuals “polices the boundaries that separate the dominant from the
> dominated in a social hierarchy.”103 He expands on this idea, using the
> analogy of miscegenation, or the interbreeding of races:
> “Do statutes that outlaw homosexual sex impose traditional sex roles? One
> possible answer is that of McLaughlin [McLaughlin v. Florida]: The crime is
> by definition one of engaging in activity inappropriate to one's sex. But
> these statutes' inconsistency with the Constitution's command of equality is
> deeper. Like the miscegenation statutes, the sodomy statutes reflect and
> reinforce the morality of a hierarchy based on birth. Just as the
> prohibition of miscegenation preserved the polarities of race on which white
> supremacy rested, so the prohibition of sodomy preserves the polarities of
> gender on which rests the subordination of women.”104 102 Andrew Koppelman,
> “The Miscegenation Analogy: Sodomy Law as Sex Discrimination”, Yale Law
> Journal, Vol.
> 98 (1988), at page 147.
> 103 Andrew Koppelman, “Why Discrimination against Lesbians and Gay Men is
> Sex Discrimination”, New York University Law Review, Vol. 69 (1994).
104 Supra note 102, at page 148.
59 PART E Statutes like Section 377 give people ammunition to say “this is
what a man is” by giving them a law which says “this is what a man is not.”
Thus, laws that affect non-heterosexuals rest upon a normative stereotype:
“the bald conviction that certain behavior-for example, sex with women-is
appropriate for members of one sex, but not for members of the other sex.” 105
What this shows us is that LGBT individuals as well as those who do not
conform to societal expectations of sexual behaviour defy gender stereotypes.
“The construction of gender stereotypes ultimately rests on the assumption
that there are two opposite and mutually exclusive biological sexes. The
assumption of heterosexuality is central to this gender binary. In a
patriarchal context, some of the most serious transgressors are thus: a woman
who renounces a man sexual partner or an individual assigned female at birth
who renounces womanhood, thereby rejecting the patriarchal system and all
other forms of male supervision and control, and an individual assigned male
at birth who embraces womanhood, thereby abandoning privilege in favor of that
which is deemed subservient, femininity.”106 Prohibition of sex discrimination
is meant to change traditional practices which legally, and often socially and
economically, disadvantage persons on the basis of gender. The case for gay
rights undoubtedly seeks justice for gays. But it goes well beyond the concern
for the gay community. The effort to end 105 Ibid.
106 The Relationship between Homophobia, Transphobia, and Women’s Access to
Justice for the Forthcoming CEDAW General Recommendation on Women’s Access to
Justice. Submitted to the United Nations Committee for the Elimination of All
Forms of Discrimination against Women (2013).  60 PART E discrimination
against gays should be understood as a necessary part of the larger effort to
end the inequality of the sexes.
“To be a lesbian is to be perceived (labelled) as someone who has stepped out
of line, who has moved out of sexual/economic dependence on a male, who is
woman- identified. A lesbian is perceived as someone who can live without a
man, and who is therefore (however illogically) against men. A lesbian is
perceived as being outside the acceptable, routinized order of things. She is
seen as someone who has no societal institutions to protect her and who is not
privileged to the protection of individual males. A lesbian is perceived as a
threat to the nuclear family, to male dominance and control, to the very heart
of sexism.”107 Commenting on its link with the essence of Article 15, Tarunabh
Khaitan writes:
> “But the salience of a case on discrimination against a politically
> disempowered minority, based purely on the prejudices of a majority, goes
> beyond the issue of LGBTQ rights. Indian constitutional democracy is at a
> crossroads…Inclusiveness and pluralism lie at the heart of Article 15, which
> can be our surest vehicle for the Court to lend its institutional authority
> to the salience of these ideas in our constitutional identity.”108 47
> Relationships that tend to undermine the male/female divide are inherently
> required for the maintenance of a socially imposed gender inequality.
> Relationships which question the divide are picked up for target and abuse.
> Section 377 allows this. By attacking these gender roles, members of the
> affected community, in their move to build communities and 107 Suzanne
> Pharr, Homophobia: A weapon of Sexism, Chardon Press (1988), at page18.
108 Tarunabh Khaitan, “Inclusive Pluralism or Majoritarian Nationalism:
Article 15, Section 377 and Who We Really Are”, Indian Constitutional Law and
Philosophy (2018).  61 PART E relationships premised on care and reciprocity,
lay challenge to the idea that relationships, and by extension society, must
be divided along hierarchical sexual roles in order to function. For members
of the community, hostility and exclusion aimed at them, drive them into
hiding, away from public expression and view. It is this discrimination faced
by the members of the community, which results in silence, and consequently
invisibility, creating barriers, systemic and deliberate, that effect their
participation in the work force and thus undermines substantive equality. In
the sense that the prohibition of miscegenation was aimed to preserve and
perpetuate the polarities of race to protect white supremacy, the prohibition
of homosexuality serves to ensure a larger system of social control based on
gender and sex. 48 A report prepared by the International Commission of
Jurists109 has documented the persecution faced by the affected community due
to the operation of Section 377. The report documents numerous violations
inflicted on people under the authority of Section 377. According to the
National Crime Records Bureau, 1279 persons in 2014 and 1491 in 2015 were
arrested under Section 377.110 109 International Commission of Jurists,
“Unnatural Offences” Obstacles to Justice in India Based on Sexual Orientation
and Gender Identity (2017).
110 Ibid, at page 16.
62 PART E The report documents instances of abuse from law enforcement
agencies and how the possibility of persecution under Section 377 prevents
redress.111 Even though acts such as blackmail, assault, and bodily crimes are
punishable under penal laws, such methods of seeking redressal are not
accessed by those communities given the fear of retaliation or prosecution. 49
The petitioners in the present batch of cases have real life narrations of
suffering discrimination, prejudice and hate. In Anwesh Pokkuluri v. UOI112,
with which this case is connected, the Petitioners are a group of persons
belonging to the LGBTQ community, each of whom has excelled in their fields
but suffer immensely due to the operation of Section 377. To cope with the
growing isolation among the community, these Petitioners, all alumni of Indian
Institutes of Technology across the country, created a closed group called
“Pravritti”. The group consists of persons from the LGBTQ community. They are
faculty members, students, alumni and anyone who has ever stayed on the campus
of any IIT in the country. The group was formed in 2012 to help members cope
with loneliness and difficulties faced while accepting their identity along
with holding open discussions on awareness. 111 Ibid, at pages 16 – 18.
112 Writ Petition (Criminal) No. 121 of 2018.
63 PART E 50 Out of twenty Petitioners, sixteen are gay, two are bisexual
women and one is a bisexual man. One among the Petitioners is a transwoman.
Three of the Petitioners explain that they suffered immense mental agony due
to which they were on the verge of committing suicide. Another two stated that
speaking about their sexual identity has been difficult, especially since they
did not have the support of their families, who, upon learning of their sexual
orientation, took them for psychiatric treatment to cure the so-called
“disease.” The families of three Petitioners ignored their sexual identity.
One of them qualified to become an Indian Administrative Services officer in
an examination which more than 4,00,000 people write each year. But he chose
to forgo his dream because of the fear that he would be discriminated against
on the ground of his sexuality. Some of them have experienced depression;
others faced problems focusing on their studies while growing up; one among
them was forced to drop out of high school as she was residing in a girl’s
hostel where the authorities questioned her identity. The parents of one of
them brushed his sexuality under the carpet and suggested that he marry a
woman. Some doubted whether or not they should continue their relationships
given the atmosphere created by Section 377. Several work in organisations
that have policies protecting the LGBT community in place. Having faced so
much pain in their personal lives, the Petitioners submit that with the
continued operation of Section 377, such treatment will be unabated.  64 PART
E 51 In Navtej Johar v. Union of India113, with which this case is concerned,
the Petitioners have set out multiple instances of discrimination and
expulsion. The following is a realistic account:
> “While society, friends and family are accepting of my sexuality, I cannot
> be fully open about my identity and my relationships because I constantly
> fear arrest and violence by the police…Without the existence of this
> section, the social prejudice and shame that I have faced would have been
> considerably lessened…the fact that gay people, like me, are recognized only
> as criminals is deeply upsetting and denies me the dignity and respect that
> I feel I deserve.114 Apart from the visible social manifestations of Section
> 377, the retention of the provision perpetuates a certain culture. The
> stereotypes fostered by section 377 have an impact on how other individuals
> and non-state institutions treat the community. While this behaviour is not
> sanctioned by Section 377, the existence of the provision nonetheless
> facilitates it by perpetuating homophobic attitudes and making it almost
> impossible for victims of abuse to access justice. Thus, the social effects
> of such a provision, even when it is enforced with zeal, is to sanction
> verbal harassment, familial fear, restricted access to public spaces and the
> lack of safe spaces. This results in a denial of the self. Identities are
> obliterated, denying the entitlement to equal participation and dignity
> under the Constitution. Section 377 deprives them of an equal citizenship.
> Referring to the effect of Foucault’s panopticon in 113 Writ Petition
> (Criminal) No. 76 of 2016.
114 Written Submission on Behalf of the Voices Against 377, in W.P. (CRL.) No.
76/2016 at page 18.  65 PART E inducing “a state of conscious and permanent
visibility that assures the automatic functioning of power”,115 Ryan Goodman
writes:
> “The state's relationship to lesbian and gay individuals under a regime of
> sodomy laws constructs a similar, yet dispersed, structure of observation
> and surveillance. The public is sensitive to the visibility of lesbians and
> gays as socially and legally constructed miscreants. Admittedly certain
> individuals, namely those who are certified with various levels of state
> authority, are more directly linked to the extension of law's power. Yet the
> social effects of sodomy laws are not tied to these specialized agents
> alone. On the ground level, private individuals also perform roles of
> policing and controlling lesbian and gay lives in a mimetic relation to the
> modes of justice itself.”116 (Emphasis supplied) The effect of Section 377,
> thus, is not merely to criminalize an act, but to criminalize a specific set
> of identities. Though facially neutral, the effect of the provision is to
> efface specific identities. These identities are the soul of the LGBT
> community.
52 The Constitution envisaged a transformation in the order of relations not
just between the state and the individual, but also between individuals: in a
constitutional order characterized by the Rule of Law, the constitutional
commitment to egalitarianism and an anti-discriminatory ethos permeates and
infuses these relations. In K S Puttaswamy v. Union of India 115 Michel
Foucault, Discipline And Punish: the Birth of the Prison, Pantheon Books
(1977) at page 201. 116 Ryan Goodman, “Beyond the Enforcement Principle:
Sodomy Laws, Social Norms, and Social Panoptics”, California Law Review, Vol.
89 (2001), at page 688.  66 PART E (“Puttaswamy”)117, this Court affirmed the
individual as the bearer of the constitutional guarantee of rights. Such
rights are devoid of their guarantee when despite legal recognition, the
social, economic and political context enables an atmosphere of continued
discrimination. The Constitution enjoins upon every individual a commitment to
a constitutional democracy characterized by the principles of equality and
inclusion. In a constitutional democracy committed to the protection of
individual dignity and autonomy, the state and every individual has a duty to
act in a manner that advances and promotes the constitutional order of values.
By criminalizing consensual sexual conduct between two homosexual adults,
Section 377 has become the basis not just of prosecutions but of the
persecution of members of the affected community. Section 377 leads to the
perpetuation of a culture of silence and stigmatization. Section 377
perpetuates notions of morality which prohibit certain relationships as being
against the ‘order of nature.’ A criminal provision has sanctioned
discrimination grounded on stereotypes imposed on an entire class of persons
on grounds prohibited by Article 15(1). This constitutes discrimination on the
grounds only of sex and violates the guarantee of non-discrimination in
Article 15(1) 117(2017) 10 SCC 1  67 PART F 53 History has been witness to a
systematic stigmatization and exclusion of those who do not conform to
societal standards of what is expected of them. Section 377 rests on deep
rooted gender stereotypes. In the quest to assert their liberties, people
criminalized by the operation of the provision, challenge not only its
existence, but also a gamut of beliefs that are strongly rooted in
majoritarian standards of what is ‘normal’. In this quest, the attack on the
validity of Section 377 is a challenge to a long history of societal
discrimination and persecution of people based on their identities. They have
been subjugated to a culture of silence and into leading their lives in
closeted invisibility. There must come a time when the constitutional
guarantee of equality and inclusion will end the decades of discrimination
practiced, based on a majoritarian impulse of ascribed gender roles. That time
is now.
    F     Confronting the closet
    54    The right to privacy is intrinsic to liberty, central to human dignity and
the core of autonomy. These values are integral to the right to life under
Article 21 of the Constitution. A meaningful life is a life of freedom and
self- respect and nurtured in the ability to decide the course of living. In
the nine judge Bench decision in Puttaswamy, this Court conceived of the right
to privacy as natural and inalienable. The judgment delivered on behalf of
four judges holds:
68 PART F “Privacy is a concomitant of the right of the individual to exercise
control over his or her personality. It finds an origin in the notion that
there are certain rights which are natural to or inherent in a human being.
Natural rights are inalienable because they are inseparable from the human
personality. The human element in life is impossible to conceive without the
existence of natural rights…”118 Justice Bobde, in his exposition on the form
of the ‘right to privacy’ held thus:
> “Privacy, with which we are here concerned, eminently qualifies as an
> inalienable natural right, intimately connected to two values whose
> protection is a matter of universal moral agreement: the innate dignity and
> autonomy of man.”119 Justice Nariman has written about the inalienable
> nature of the right to privacy:
> “…Fundamental rights, on the other hand, are contained in the Constitution
> so that there would be rights that the citizens of this country may enjoy
> despite the governments that they may elect. This is all the more so when a
> particular fundamental right like privacy of the individual is an
> “inalienable” right which inheres in the individual because he is a human
> being. The recognition of such right in the fundamental rights chapter of
> the Constitution is only a recognition that such right exists
> notwithstanding the shifting sands of majority governments…”120 Justice
> Sapre, in his opinion, has also sanctified ‘privacy’ as a natural right:
> “In my considered opinion, “right to privacy of any individual” is
> essentially a natural right, which inheres in every human being by birth...
> It is indeed inseparable and inalienable…it is born with the human
> being…”121 118 Puttaswamy, at para 42.
119 Puttaswamy, at para 392.
120 Puttaswamy, at para 490.
121 Puttaswamy at para 557.
69 PART F These opinions establish that the right to privacy is a natural
right. The judgment of four judges in Puttaswamy held that the right to sexual
orientation is an intrinsic part of the right to privacy. To define the scope
of the right, it is useful to examine the discussion on the right to sexual
orientation in judicial precedents of this Court.
55 Speaking for a two judge Bench in NALSA, Justice K S Radhakrishnan
elucidated upon the term ‘sexual orientation’ as differentiable from an
individual’s ‘gender identity’, noting that:
> “Sexual orientation refers to an individual’s enduring physical, romantic
> and/or emotional attraction to another person.
Sexual orientation includes transgender and gender-variant people with heavy
sexual orientation and their sexual orientation may or may not change during
or after gender transmission, which also includes homo-sexuals, bysexuals,
heterosexuals, asexual etc. Gender identity and sexual orientation, as already
indicated, are different concepts. Each person’s self-defined sexual
orientation and gender identity is integral to their personality and is one of
the most basic aspects of self-determination, dignity and freedom…”122
Puttaswamy rejected the “test of popular acceptance” employed by this Court in
Koushal and affirmed that sexual orientation is a constitutionally guaranteed
freedom:
> “…The guarantee of constitutional rights does not depend upon their exercise
> being favourably regarded by majoritarian opinion. The test of popular
> acceptance does not furnish a valid basis to disregard rights which are
> conferred with the sanctity of constitutional protection. Discrete and
> insular 122 NALSA, at para 22.
70
PART F minorities face grave dangers of discrimination for the simple reason
that their views, beliefs or way of life do not accord with the ‘mainstream’.
Yet in a democratic Constitution founded on the rule of law, their rights are
as sacred as those conferred on other citizens to protect their freedoms and
liberties. Sexual orientation is an essential attribute of privacy.
Discrimination against an individual on the basis of sexual orientation is
deeply offensive to the dignity and self-worth of the individual. Equality
demands that the sexual orientation of each individual in society must be
protected on an even platform. The right to privacy and the protection of
sexual orientation lie at the core of the fundamental rights guaranteed by
Articles 14, 15 and 21 of the Constitution.”123 Rejecting the notion that the
rights of the LGBT community can be construed as illusory, the court held that
the right to privacy claimed by sexual minorities is a constitutionally
entrenched right:
> “…The rights of the lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender population cannot
> be construed to be “so-called rights”. The expression “so-called” seems to
> suggest the exercise of a liberty in the garb of a right which is illusory.
> This is an inappropriate construction of the privacy based claims of the
> LGBT population. Their rights are not “so-called” but are real rights
> founded on sound constitutional doctrine. They inhere in the right to life.
> They dwell in privacy and dignity. They constitute the essence of liberty
> and freedom. Sexual orientation is an essential component of identity. Equal
> protection demands protection of the identity of every individual without
> discrimination.”124 Justice Kaul, concurring with the recognition of sexual
> orientation as an aspect of privacy, noted that:
> “…The sexual orientation even within the four walls of the house thus became
> an aspect of debate. I am in agreement with the view of Dr. D.Y.
> Chandrachud, J., who in paragraphs 144 to 146 of his judgment, states that
> the right of privacy 123 Puttaswamy, at para 144.
> 124 Puttaswamy, at para 145.
71
PART F cannot be denied, even if there is a miniscule fraction of the
population which is affected. The majoritarian concept does not apply to
Constitutional rights and the Courts are often called up on to take what may
be categorized as a non- majoritarian view, in the check and balance of power
envisaged under the Constitution of India. One’s sexual orientation is
undoubtedly an attribute of privacy…”125 With these observations by five of
the nine judges in Puttaswamy, the basis on which Koushal upheld the validity
of Section 377 stands eroded and even disapproved.
56 We must now consider the impact of Section 377 on the exercise of the right
to privacy by sexual minorities. Legislation does not exist in a vacuum. The
social ramifications of Section 377 are enormous. While facially Section 377
only criminalizes certain “acts”, and not relationships, it alters the prism
through which a member of the LGBTQ is viewed. Conduct and identity are
conflated.126 The impact of criminalising non-conforming sexual relations is
that individuals who fall outside the spectrum of heteronormative127 sexual
identity are perceived as criminals.128 57 World over, sexual minorities have
struggled to find acceptance in the heteronormative structure that is imposed
by society. In her book titled 125 Puttaswamy, at para 647.
126 Supra note 116, at page 689.
127 The expression heteronormative is used to denote or relate to a world view
that promotes heterosexuality as the normal or preferred sexual orientation.
128 Supra note 116, at page 689.
72 PART F ‘Epistemology of the Closet’,129 Eve Sedgwick states that “the
closet is the defining structure for gay oppression in this century.” The
closet is symbolic of the exclusion faced by them:
> “Closets exist and they hide social information. They hide certain socially
> proscribed sexual desires, certain unnamable sexual acts deemed ‘unnatural‘
> by the cultural context and law, certain identities which dare not speak
> their name and certain forms of behaviour which can make an individual
> susceptible to stigma and oppression. The closet does not simply hide this
> susceptibility; it hides stigma and oppression itself. It marks the
> silencing of different voices, a silence which is achieved by a gross
> violation of lives that inhabit the closet, through both violence and pain
> inflicted by significant others both within and without the closet and
> instances of self-inflicted pain and violence. The closet also hides
> pleasure, myriad sexual expressions and furtive encounters that gratify the
> self. The closet also conceals the possibility of disease and death.”130 The
> existing heteronormative framework – which recognises only sexual relations
> that conform to social norms – is legitimized by the taint of
> ‘unnaturalness’ that Section 377 lends to sexual relations outside this
> framework. The notion of ‘unnatural acts’, viewed in myopic terms of a
> “fixed procreational model of sexual functioning”, is improperly applied to
> sexual relations between consenting adults.131 Sexual activity between
> adults and based on consent must be viewed as a “natural expression” of
> human sexual competences and sensitivities.132 The refusal to accept these
> acts amounts to 129 Eve Kosofsky Sedgwick, Epistemology of the Closet,
> University of California Press (1990).
130 Supra note 65, at page 102.
131 David A. J. Richards, “Sexual Autonomy and the Constitutional Right to
Privacy: A Case Study in Human Rights and the Unwritten Constitution”,
Hastings Law Journal, Vol. 30, at page 786. 132 Ibid.
73 PART F a denial of the distinctive human capacities for sensual experience
outside of the realm of procreative sex.133 58 To deny the members of the LGBT
community the full expression of the right to sexual orientation is to deprive
them of their entitlement to full citizenship under the Constitution. The
denial of the right to sexual orientation is also a denial of the right to
privacy. The application of Section 377 causes a deprivation of the
fundamental right to privacy which inheres in every citizen. This Court is
entrusted with the duty to act as a safeguard against such violations of human
rights. Justice Chelameswar, in his judgement in Puttaswamy, held that:
> “To sanctify an argument that whatever is not found in the text of the
> Constitution cannot become a part of the Constitution would be too primitive
> an understanding of the Constitution and contrary to settled cannons of
> constitutional interpretation. Such an approach regarding the rights and
> liberties of citizens would be an affront to the collective wisdom of our
> people and the wisdom of the members of the Constituent Assembly...”134 59
> The exercise of the natural and inalienable right to privacy entails
> allowing an individual the right to a self-determined sexual orientation.
> Thus, it is imperative to widen the scope of the right to privacy to
> incorporate a right to ‘sexual privacy’ to protect the rights of sexual
> minorities. Emanating from the 133 Ibid.
134 Puttaswamy, at Para 350.
74 PART F inalienable right to privacy, the right to sexual privacy must be
granted the sanctity of a natural right, and be protected under the
Constitution as fundamental to liberty and as a soulmate of dignity. 60
Citizens of a democracy cannot be compelled to have their lives pushed into
obscurity by an oppressive colonial legislation. In order to ensure to sexual
and gender minorities the fulfilment of their fundamental rights, it is
imperative to ‘confront the closet’ and, as a necessary consequence, confront
‘compulsory heterosexuality.’135 Confronting the closet would entail
“reclaiming markers of all desires, identities and acts which challenge
it.”136 It would also entail ensuring that individuals belonging to sexual
minorities, have the freedom to fully participate in public life, breaking the
invisible barrier that heterosexuality imposes upon them. The choice of
sexuality is at the core of privacy. But equally, our constitutional
jurisprudence must recognise that the public assertion of identity founded in
sexual orientation is crucial to the exercise of freedoms.
61 In conceptualising a right to sexual privacy, it is important to consider
how the delineation of ‘public’ and ‘private’ spaces affects the lives of the
LGBTIQ community. Members of the community have argued that to base 135 Supra
note 65, at page 103.
136 Ibid.
75 PART F their claims on a right to privacy is of no utility to individuals
who do not possess the privilege of a private space.137 In fact, even for
individuals who have access to private spaces the conflation of ‘private’ with
home and family may be misplaced.138 The home is often reduced to a public
space as heteronormativity within the family can force the individual to
remain inside the closet.139 Thus, even the conception of a private space for
certain individuals is utopian.140 62 Privacy creates “tiers of ‘reputable’
and ‘disreputable’ sex”, only granting protection to acts behind closed
doors.141 Thus, it is imperative that the protection granted for consensual
acts in private must also be available in situations where sexual minorities
are vulnerable in public spaces on account of their sexuality and
appearance.142 If one accepts the proposition that public places are
heteronormative, and same-sex sexual acts partially closeted, relegating
‘homosexual‘ acts into the private sphere, would in effect reiterate the
“ambient heterosexism of the public space.”143 It must be acknowledged that
members belonging to sexual minorities are often subjected to 137 Danish
Sheikh, “Queer Rights and the Puttaswamy Judgement”, Economic and Political
Weekly, Vol. 52 (2017), at page 51.
138 Supra note 65, at page 101.
139 Ibid.
140 Ibid.
141 Supra note 137, at page 51.
142 Saptarshi Mandal, “‘Right To Privacy’ In Naz Foundation: A Counter-
Heteronormative Critique”, NUJS Law Review, Vol. 2 (2009), at page 533.
143 Supra note 65, at page 100.
76 PART F harassment in public spaces.144 The right to sexual privacy, founded
on the right to autonomy of a free individual, must capture the right of
persons of the community to navigate public places on their own terms, free
from state interference.
F.I Sexual privacy and autonomy- deconstructing the heteronormative framework
63 In the absence of a protected zone of privacy, individuals are forced to
conform to societal stereotypes. Puttaswamy has characterised the right to
privacy as a shield against forced homogeneity and as an essential attribute
to achieve personhood:
> “…Recognizing a zone of privacy is but an acknowledgment that each
> individual must be entitled to chart and pursue the course of development of
> personality. Hence privacy is a postulate of human dignity itself. Thoughts
> and behavioural patterns which are intimate to an individual are entitled to
> a zone of privacy where one is free of social expectations. In that zone of
> privacy, an individual is not judged by others.
Privacy enables each individual to take crucial decisions which find
expression in the human personality. It enables individuals to preserve their
beliefs, thoughts, expressions, ideas, ideologies, preferences and choices
against societal demands of homogeneity. Privacy is an intrinsic recognition
of heterogeneity, of the right of the individual to be different and to stand
against the tide of conformity in creating a zone of solitude. Privacy
protects the individual from the searching glare of publicity in matters which
are personal to his or her 144 Supra note 137, at page 53.
77 PART F life. Privacy attaches to the person and not to the place where it
is associated.”145 This Court has recognized the right of an individual to
break free from the demands of society and the need to foster a plural and
inclusive culture. The judgment of four judges in Puttaswamy, for instance,
held that:
> “Privacy constitutes the foundation of all liberty because it is in privacy
> that the individual can decide how liberty is best exercised. Individual
> dignity and privacy are inextricably linked in a pattern woven out of a
> thread of diversity into the fabric of a plural culture.”146 64 In Santosh
> Singh v Union of India147, a two-judge Bench of this Court dismissed a
> petition under Article 32 seeking a direction to the Central Board of
> Secondary Education to include moral science as a compulsory subject in the
> school syllabus in order to inculcate moral values. One of us (Chandrachud
> J) underscored the importance of accepting a plurality of ideas and
> tolerance of radically different views:
> “Morality is one and, however important it may sound to some, it still is
> only one element in the composition of values that a just society must
> pursue. There are other equally significant values which a democratic
> society may wish for education to impart to its young. Among those is the
> acceptance of a plurality and diversity of ideas, images and faiths which
> unfortunately faces global threats. Then again, equally important is the
> need to foster tolerance of those who hold radically differing views,
> empathy for those whom the economic and social milieu has cast away to the
> margins, a 145 Puttaswamy, at para 297.
> 146 Puttaswamy, at para 297.
147 (2016) 8 SCC 253  78 PART F sense of compassion and a realisation of the
innate humanity which dwells in each human being. Value based education must
enable our young to be aware of the horrible consequences of prejudice, hate
and discrimination that continue to threaten people and societies the world
over…”148 The right to privacy enables an individual to exercise his or her
autonomy, away from the glare of societal expectations. The realisation of the
human personality is dependent on the autonomy of an individual. In a liberal
democracy, recognition of the individual as an autonomous person is an
acknowledgment of the State’s respect for the capacity of the individual to
make independent choices. The right to privacy may be construed to signify
that not only are certain acts no longer immoral, but that there also exists
an affirmative moral right to do them.149 As noted by Richards, this moral
right emerges from the autonomy to which the individual is entitled:
> “Autonomy, in the sense fundamental to the theory of human rights, is an
> empirical assumption that persons as such have a range of capacities that
> enables them to develop, and act upon plans of action that take as their
> object one's life and the way it is lived. The consequence of these
> capacities of autonomy is that humans can make independent decisions
> regarding what their life shall be, self-critically reflecting, as a
> separate being, which of one's first-order desires will be developed and
> which disowned, which capacities cultivated and which left barren, with whom
> one will or will not identify, or what one will define and pursue as needs
> and aspirations.
In brief, autonomy gives to persons the capacity to call their life their own.
The development of these capacities for separation and individuation is, from
birth, the central developmental task of becoming a person.”150 148 Ibid at
para 22.
149 Supra note 131, at pages 1000-1001.
150 Supra note 131, at pages 964-965; M. Mahler, “The Psychological Birth of
The Human Infant: Symbiosis And Individuation” (1975); L. Kaplan, Oneness And
Separateness: From Infant To Individual (1978).  79 PART F 65 In Common Cause
(A Registered Society) v. Union of India (“Common Cause”)151, a Constitution
Bench of this Court held that the right to die with dignity is integral to the
right to life recognised by the Constitution and an individual possessing
competent mental faculties is entitled to express his or her autonomy by the
issuance of an advance medical directive:
> “The protective mantle of privacy covers certain decisions that
> fundamentally affect the human life cycle. It protects the most personal and
> intimate decisions of individuals that affect their life and development.
> Thus, choices and decisions on matters such as procreation, contraception
> and marriage have been held to be protected. While death is an inevitable
> end in the trajectory of the cycle of human life individuals are often faced
> with choices and decisions relating to death. Decisions relating to death,
> like those relating to birth, sex, and marriage, are protected by the
> Constitution by virtue of the right of privacy…”152 Autonomy and privacy are
> inextricably linked. Each requires the other for its full realization. Their
> interrelationship has been recognised in Puttaswamy:
> “…Privacy postulates the reservation of a private space for the individual,
> described as the right to be left alone. The concept is founded on the
> autonomy of the individual. The ability of an individual to make choices
> lies at the core of the human personality. The notion of privacy enables the
> individual to assert and control the human element which is inseparable from
> the personality of the individual. The inviolable nature of the human
> personality is manifested in the ability to make decisions on matters
> intimate to human life.
> The autonomy of the individual is associated over matters which can be kept
> private. These are concerns over which there is a legitimate expectation of
> privacy...”153 151 (2018) 5 SCC 1 152 Ibid, at para 441.
153 Puttaswamy, at para 297.
80 PART F In order to understand how sexual choices are an essential attribute
of autonomy, it is useful to refer to John Rawls’ theory on social contract.
Rawls’ conception of the ‘Original Position’ serves as a constructive model to
illustrate the notion of choice behind a “partial veil of ignorance.”154
Persons behind the veil are assumed to be rational and mutually disinterested
individuals, unaware of their positions in society.155 The strategy employed
by Rawls is to focus on a category of goods which an individual would desire
irrespective of what individuals’ conception of ‘good’ might be.156 These
neutrally desirable goods are described by Rawls as ‘primary social goods’ and
may be listed as rights, liberties, powers, opportunities, income, wealth, and
the constituents of self-respect.157 Rawls's conception of self-respect, as a
primary human good, is intimately connected to the idea of autonomy.158 Self-
respect is founded on an individual's ability to exercise her native
capacities in a competent manner.159 66 An individual’s sexuality cannot be
put into boxes or compartmentalized; it should rather be viewed as fluid,
granting the individual the freedom to ascertain her own desires and
proclivities. The self- 154 Thomas M. Jr. Scanlon, Rawls’ Theory of Justice,
University of Pennsylvania Law Review (1973) at 1022. 155 Ibid at 1023.
156 Ibid at 1023.
157 Ibid at 1023.
158 Supra note 131, at page 971.
159 Ibid at page 972.
81 PART F determination of sexual orientation is an exercise of autonomy.
Accepting the role of human sexuality as an independent force in the
development of personhood is an acknowledgement of the crucial role of sexual
autonomy in the idea of a free individual.160 Such an interpretation of
autonomy has implications for the widening application of human rights to
sexuality.161 Sexuality cannot be construed as something that the State has
the prerogative to legitimize only in the form of rigid, marital procreational
sex.162 Sexuality must be construed as a fundamental experience through which
individuals define the meaning of their lives.163 Human sexuality cannot be
reduced to a binary formulation. Nor can it be defined narrowly in terms of
its function as a means to procreation. To confine it to closed categories
would result in denuding human liberty of its full content as a constitutional
right. The Constitution protects the fluidities of sexual experience. It
leaves it to consenting adults to find fulfilment in their relationships, in a
diversity of cultures, among plural ways of life and in infinite shades of
love and longing. F.2 A right to intimacy- celebration of sexual agency 67 By
criminalising consensual acts between individuals who wish to exercise their
constitutionally-protected right to sexual orientation, the State is 160 Supra
note 131, at page 1003.
161 Ibid.
162 Ibid.
163 Ibid.
82 PART F denying its citizens the right to intimacy. The right to intimacy
emanates from an individual’s prerogative to engage in sexual relations on
their own terms. It is an exercise of the individual’s sexual agency, and
includes the individual’s right to the choice of partner as well as the
freedom to decide on the nature of the relationship that the individual wishes
to pursue. In Shakti Vahini v. Union of India164, a three judge Bench of this
Court issued directives to prevent honour killings at the behest of Khap
Panchayats and protect persons who enter into marriages that do not have the
approval of the Panchayats. The Court recognised the right to choose a life
partner as a fundamental right under Articles 19 and 21 of the Constitution.
The learned Chief Justice held:
> “…when two adults consensually choose each other as life partners, it is a
> manifestation of their choice which is recognized under Articles 19 and 21
> of the Constitution. Such a right has the sanction of the constitutional law
> and once that is recognized, the said right needs to be protected and it
> cannot succumb to the conception of class honour or group thinking which is
> conceived of on some notion that remotely does not have any legitimacy.”165
> In Shafin Jahan v. Asokan166, this Court set aside a Kerala High Court
> judgement which annulled the marriage of a twenty-four year old woman with a
> man of her choice in a habeas corpus petition instituted by her father. The
> 164 (2018) SCC OnLine SC 275 165 Ibid, at para 44.
166 (2018) SCC OnLine SC 343  83 PART F Court upheld her right to choose of a
life partner as well as her autonomy in the sphere of “intimate personal
decisions.” The Chief Justice held thus:
> “…expression of choice in accord with law is acceptance of individual
> identity. Curtailment of that expression and the ultimate action emanating
> therefrom on the conceptual structuralism of obeisance to the societal will
> destroy the individualistic entity of a person. The social values and morals
> have their space but they are not above the constitutionally guaranteed
> freedom …”167 (Emphasis supplied) One of us (Chandrachud J) recognised the
> right to choose a partner as an important facet of autonomy:
> “…The choice of a partner whether within or outside marriage lies within the
> exclusive domain of each individual.
> Intimacies of marriage lie within a core zone of privacy, which is
> inviolable. The absolute right of an individual to choose a life partner is
> not in the least affected by matters of faith...Social approval for intimate
> personal decisions is not the basis for recognising them...”168 (Emphasis
> supplied) The judgement in Shafin Jahan delineates a space where an
> individual enjoys the autonomy of making intimate personal decisions:
> “The strength of the Constitution, therefore, lies in the guarantee which it
> affords that each individual will have a protected entitlement in
> determining a choice of partner to share intimacies within or outside
> marriage.”169 In furtherance of the Rawlsian notion of self-respect as a
> primary good, individuals must not be denied the freedom to form
> relationships based on sexual intimacy. Consensual sexual relationships
> between adults, based on 167 Ibid, at para 54.
> 168 Ibid, at para 88.
169 Ibid, at para 93.
84 PART F the human propensity to experience desire must be treated with
respect. In addition to respect for relationships based on consent, it is
important to foster a society where individuals find the ability for
unhindered expression of the love that they experience towards their partner.
This “institutionalized expression to love” must be considered an important
element in the full actualisation of the ideal of self-respect.170 Social
institutions must be arranged in such a manner that individuals have the
freedom to enter into relationships untrammelled by binary of sex and gender
and receive the requisite institutional recognition to perfect their
relationships.171 The law provides the legitimacy for social institutions. In
a democratic framework governed by the rule of law, the law must be consistent
with the constitutional values of liberty, dignity and autonomy. It cannot be
allowed to become a yoke on the full expression of the human personality. By
penalising sexual conduct between consenting adults, Section 377 imposes moral
notions which are anachronistic to a constitutional order. While ostensibly
penalising ‘acts’, it impacts upon the identity of the LGBT community and
denies them the benefits of a full and equal citizenship. Section 377 is based
on a stereotype about sex. Our Constitution which protects sexual orientation
must 170 David A. J. Richards, “Unnatural Acts and the Constitutional Right to
Privacy: A Moral Theory”, Fordham Law Review, Vol. 45 (1977), at pages
1130-1311.
171 Ibid at 1311.
85 PART G outlaw any law which lends the authority of the state to obstructing
its fulfilment.
G Section 377 and the right to health “Should medicine ever fulfil its great
ends, it must enter into the larger political and social life of our time; it
must indicate the barriers which obstruct the normal completion of the life
cycle and remove them.”
\- Virchow Rudolf 68 In the evolution of its jurisprudence on the
constitutional right to life under Article 21, this Court has consistently
held that the right to life is meaningless unless accompanied by the guarantee
of certain concomitant rights including, but not limited to, the right to
health.172 The right to health is understood to be indispensable to a life of
dignity and well-being, and includes, for instance, the right to emergency
medical care and the right to the maintenance and improvement of public
health.173 It would be useful to refer to judgments of this Court which have
recognised the right to health.
172 Dipika Jain and Kimberly Rhoten, “The Heteronormative State and the Right
to Health in India”, NUJS Law Review, Vol. 6 (2013).
173 C.E.S.C. Limited v. Subhash Chandra Bose, (1992) 1 SCC 441; Consumer
Education and Research Centre v.
UOI, (1995) 3 SCC 42; Paschim Banga Khet Mazdoor Samity v. State of West
Bengal, (1996) 4 SCC 37; Society for Unaided Private Schools of Rajasthan v.
Union of India, (2012) 6 SCC 1; Devika Biswas v. Union of India & Ors., (2016)
10 SCC 726; Common Cause v. Union of India & Ors., (2018) 5 SCC 1.  86 PART G
In Bandhua Mukti Morcha v. Union of India174, a three-judge Bench identified
the right to health within the right to life and dignity. In doing so, this
Court drew on the Directive Principles of State Policy:
> “It is the fundamental right of every one in this country … to live with
> human dignity, free from exploitation. This right to live with human dignity
> enshrined in Article 21 derives its life breath from the Directive
> Principles of State Policy and particularly Clauses (e) and (f) of Article
> 39 and Articles 41 and 42 and at the least, therefore, it must include
> protection of the health and strength of workers men and women, and of the
> tender age of children against abuse, opportunities and facilities for
> children to develop in a healthy manner and in conditions of freedom and
> dignity, educational facilities, just and humane conditions of work and
> maternity relief. These are the minimum requirements which must exist in
> order to enable a person to live with human dignity and no State neither the
> Central Government nor any State Government-has the right to take any action
> which will deprive a person of the enjoyment of these basic essentials.”
> (Emphasis supplied) In Consumer Education & Research Centre v. Union of
> India (“CERC”)175, a Bench of three judges dealt with the right to health of
> workers in asbestos industries. While laying down mandatory guidelines to be
> followed for the well-
being of workers, the Court held that:
> “The right to health to a worker is an integral facet of meaningful right to
> life to have not only a meaningful existence but also robust health and
> vigour without which worker would lead life of misery. Lack of health
> denudes his livelihood...Therefore, it must be held that the right to health
> and medical care is a fundamental right under 174 (1984) 3 SCC 161 175
> (1995) 3 SCC 42  87 PART G Article 21 read with Articles 39(c), 41 and 43 of
> the Constitution and makes the life of the workman meaningful and purposeful
> with dignity of person. Right to life includes protection of the health and
> strength of the worker and is a minimum requirement to enable a person to
> live with human dignity.” (Emphasis supplied) In a dissenting judgment in
> C.E.S.C. Limited v. Subhash Chandra Bose176, K Ramaswamy J observed that:
> “Health is thus a state of complete physical, mental and social well-being
> and not merely the absence of disease or infirmity. In the light of
> Articles. 22 to 25 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights,
> International Convention on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, and in the
> light of socio-economic justice assured in our constitution, right to health
> is a fundamental human right to workmen. The maintenance of health is a most
> imperative constitutional goal whose realisation requires interaction by
> many social and economic factors” (Emphasis supplied) In Kirloskar Brothers
> Ltd. V. Employees' State Insurance Corporation177, a three-judge Bench of
> this Court considered the applicability of the Employees' State Insurance
> Act, 1948 to the regional offices of the Appellant, observing that:
> “Health is thus a state of complete physical, mental and social well-being.
> Right to health, therefore, is a fundamental and human right to the workmen.
> The maintenance of health is the most imperative constitutional goal whose
> realisation requires interaction of many social and economic factors.” 176
> (1992) 1 SCC 441 177 (1996) 2 SCC 682  88 PART G In State of Punjab v. Ram
> Lubhaya Bagga178, a three-judge Bench of this Court considered a challenge
> to the State of Punjab’s medical reimbursement policy. A.P. Mishra J,
> speaking for the Bench, observed that:
> “Pith and substance of life is the health, which is the nucleus of all
> activities of life including that of an employee or other viz. the physical,
> social, spiritual or any conceivable human activities. If this is denied, it
> is said everything crumbles.
> This Court has time and again emphasised to the Government and other
> authorities for focussing and giving priority and other authorities for
> focussing and giving priority to the health of its, citizen, which not only
> makes one's life meaningful, improves one's efficiency, but in turn gives
> optimum out put.” In Smt M Vijaya v. The Chairman and Managing Director
> Singareni Collieries Co. Ltd.179, a five judge Bench of the Andhra Pradesh
> High Court considered a case where a girl was infected with HIV due to the
> negligence of hospital authorities. The Court observed that:
> “Article 21 of the Constitution of India provides that no person shall be
> deprived of his life or personal liberty except according to procedure
> established by law. By reason of numerous judgments of the Apex Court the
> horizons of Article 21 of the Constitution have been expanded recognising
> various rights of the citizens i.e...right to health...
> It is well settled that right to life guaranteed under Article 21 is not
> mere animal existence. It is a right to enjoy all faculties of life. As a
> necessary corollary, right to life includes right to healthy life.” 178
> (1998) 4 SCC 117 179 (2001) 5 ALD 522  89 PART G In Devika Biswas v. Union
> of India180, while hearing a public interest petition concerning several
> deaths that had taken place due to unsanitary conditions in sterilization
> camps across the country, a two judge Bench of this Court held that:
> “It is well established that the right to life under Article 21 of the
> Constitution includes the right to lead a dignified and meaningful life and
> the right to health is an integral facet of this right...That the right to
> health is an integral part of the right to life does not need any
> repetition.” In his concurring judgment in Common Cause v. Union of India,
> Sikri J, noted the inextricable link between the right to health and
> dignity:
> “There is a related, but interesting, aspect of this dignity which needs to
> be emphasised. Right to health is a part of Article 21 of the Constitution.
> At the same time, it is also a harsh reality that everybody is not able to
> enjoy that right because of poverty etc. The State is not in a position to
> translate into reality this right to health for all citizens. Thus, when
> citizens are not guaranteed the right to health, can they be denied right to
> die in dignity?” (Emphasis supplied) In addition to the constitutional
> recognition granted to the right to health, the right to health is also
> recognised in international treaties, covenants, and agreements which India
> has ratified, including the International Covenant on Economic, Social and
> Cultural Rights, 1966 (“ICESCR”) and the Universal 180 (2016) 10 SCC 726  90
> PART G Declaration of Human Rights, 1948 (“UDHR”). Article 25 of the UDHR
> recognizes the right to health:
> "Everyone has the right to a standard of living adequate for the health and
> well-being of himself and of his family, including food, clothing, housing
> and medical care and necessary social services."
> 69 Article 12 of the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural
> Rights (“ICESCR”) recognizes the right of all persons to the enjoyment of
> the highest attainable standard of physical and mental health:
> “The States Parties to the present Covenant recognize the right of everyone
> to the enjoyment of the highest attainable standard of physical and mental
> health.” Article 12.2 requires States Parties to take specific steps to
> improve the health of their citizens, including creating conditions to
> ensure equal and timely access to medical services. In its General Comment
> No. 14,181 the UN Economic and Social Council stated that States must take
> measures to respect, protect and fulfil the health of all persons. States
> are obliged to ensure the availability and accessibility of health-related
> information, education, facilities, goods and services, without
> discrimination, especially for vulnerable and marginalized populations.
> 181 UN Economic and Social Council (ECOSOC), Committee on Economic, Social
> and Cultural Rights, General Comment No. 14: The Right to the Highest
> Attainable Standard of Health, UN Doc. E/C.12/2004 (2000).
91
PART G Pursuant to General Comment No. 14, India is required to provide
marginalized populations, including members of the LGBTIQ community, goods and
services that are available (in sufficient quantity), accessible (physically,
geographically, economically and in a non-discriminatory manner), acceptable
(respectful of culture and medical ethics) and of quality (scientifically and
medically appropriate and of good quality). 70 As early as 1948, the World
Health Organization (“WHO”) defined the term ‘health’ broadly to mean “a state
of complete physical, mental and social well-being and not merely the absence
of disease or infirmity.”182 Even today, for a significant number of Indian
citizens this standard of health remains an elusive aspiration. Of relevance
to the present case, a particular class of citizens is denied the benefits of
this constitutional enunciation of the right to health because of their most
intimate sexual choices. 71 Sexuality is a natural and precious aspect of
life, an essential and fundamental part of our humanity.183 Sexual rights are
entitlements related to sexuality and emanate from the rights to freedom,
equality, privacy, autonomy, and dignity of all people.184 For people to
attain the highest 182Definitioncontained in the Preamble to the WHO
Constitution (1948). 183 Sexual Rights, International Planned Parenthood
Federation (2008). 184 Ibid.
92 PART G standard of health, they must also have the right to exercise choice
in their sexual lives and feel safe in expressing their sexual identity.
However, for some citizens, discrimination, stigma, fear and violence prevent
them from attaining basic sexual rights and health.
72 Individuals belonging to sexual and gender minorities experience
discrimination, stigmatization, and, in some cases, denial of care on account
of their sexual orientation and gender identity.185 However, it is important
to note that ‘sexual and gender minorities’ do not constitute a homogenous
group, and experiences of social exclusion, marginalization, and
discrimination, as well as specific health needs, vary considerably.186
Nevertheless, these individuals are united by one factor - that their
exclusion, discrimination and marginalization is rooted in societal
heteronormativity and society’s pervasive bias towards gender binary and
opposite-gender relationships, which marginalizes and excludes all non-
heteronormative sexual and gender identities.187 This, in turn, has important
implications for individuals’ health-seeking behaviour, how health services
are provided, and the extent to which sexual health can be achieved.188 185
Alexandra Muller, “Health for All? Sexual Orientation, Gender Identity, and
the Implementation of the Right to Access to Health Care in South Africa”,
Health and Human Rights (2016) at pages 195–208. 186 Institute of Medicine,
“The Health of Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, and Transgender People: Building a
Foundation for Better Understanding”, National Academies Press (2011). 187
Supra note 185, at pages 195–208.
188 Ibid.
93 PART G 73 The term ‘sexual health’ was first defined in a 1975 WHO
Technical Report series as “the integration of the somatic, emotional,
intellectual and social aspects of sexual being, in ways that are positively
enriching and that enhance personality, communication and love.”189 The WHO’s
current working definition of sexual health is as follows:
> “…a state of physical, emotional, mental and social well-being in relation
> to sexuality; it is not merely the absence of disease, dysfunction or
> infirmity. Sexual health requires a positive and respectful approach to
> sexuality and sexual relationships, as well as the possibility of having
> pleasurable and safe sexual experiences, free of coercion, discrimination
> and violence. For sexual health to be attained and maintained, the sexual
> rights of all persons must be respected, protected and fulfilled.” The WHO
> further states that “sexual health cannot be defined, understood or made
> operational without a broad consideration of sexuality, which underlies
> important behaviours and outcomes related to sexual health.” It defines
> sexuality thus:
> “…a central aspect of being human throughout life encompasses sex, gender
> identities and roles, sexual orientation, eroticism, pleasure, intimacy and
> reproduction.
> Sexuality is experienced and expressed in thoughts, fantasies, desires,
> beliefs, attitudes, values, behaviours, practices, roles and relationships.
> While sexuality can include all of these dimensions, not all of them are
> always experienced or expressed. Sexuality is influenced by the interaction
> of biological, psychological, social, economic, political, cultural, legal,
> historical, religious and spiritual factors.” 189 World Health Organization,
> “Gender and human rights: Defining sexual health”, (2002).
94
PART G 74 A report entitled “Sexual Health, Human Rights and the Law”,190
published by the WHO in 2015 explores the relationship between these concepts.
The report notes that “human sexuality includes many different forms of
behaviour and expression, and that the recognition of the diversity of sexual
behaviour and expression contributes to people’s overall sense of health and
well-being.”191 It emphasizes the importance of sexual health by stating that
not only is it essential to the physical and emotional well-being of
individuals, couples and families, but it is also fundamental to the social
and economic development of communities and countries.192 The ability of
individuals to progress towards sexual health and well-being depends on
various factors, including “access to comprehensive information about
sexuality, knowledge about the risks they face and their vulnerability to the
adverse consequences of sexual activity; access to good quality sexual health
care, and an environment that affirms and promotes sexual health.” 75 The
International Women’s Health Coalition has located the right to sexual health
within ‘sexual rights’, defined as follows:193 “Sexual rights embrace certain
human rights that are already recognized in national laws, international human
rights documents, and other consensus documents. They rest on the recognition
that all individuals have the right—free of 190 World Health Organisation,
“Sexual Health, Human Rights and the Law” (2015). 191 Ibid.
192 Ibid.
193 International Women’s Health Coalition, “Sexual Rights are Human Rights”
(2014).  95 PART G coercion, violence, and discrimination of any kind—to the
highest attainable standard of sexual health; to pursue a satisfying, safe,
and pleasurable sexual life; to have control over and decide freely, and with
due regard for the rights of others, on matters related to their sexuality,
reproduction, sexual orientation, bodily integrity, choice of partner, and
gender identity; and to the services, education, and information, including
comprehensive sexuality education, necessary to do so.” The discussion of
‘sexual rights’ (as they pertain to sexuality and sexual orientation) within
the framework of the right to health is a relatively new phenomenon:194
“..Before the 1993 World Conference on Human Rights in Vienna, and the
subsequent 1994 International Conference on Population and Development in
Cairo, sexuality, sexual rights, and sexual diversity had not formed part of
the international health and human rights discourse. These newly emerged
“sexual rights” were founded on the principles of bodily integrity,
personhood, equality, and diversity.”195 (Emphasis supplied) 76 The operation
of Section 377 denies consenting adults the full realization of their right to
health, as well as their sexual rights. It forces consensual sex between
adults into a realm of fear and shame, as persons who engage in anal and oral
intercourse risk criminal sanctions if they seek health advice. This lowers
the standard of health enjoyed by them and particularly by members of sexual
and gender minorities, in relation to the rest of society.
194 Supra note 185, at pages 195–208.
195 Supra note 185, at pages 195–208.
96 PART G 77 The right to health is not simply the right not to be unwell, but
rather the right to be well. It encompasses not just the absence of disease or
infirmity, but “complete physical, mental and social well being”,196 and
includes both freedoms such as the right to control one’s health and body and
to be free from interference (for instance, from non-consensual medical
treatment and experimentation), and entitlements such as the right to a system
of healthcare that gives everyone an equal opportunity to enjoy the highest
attainable level of health.
78 The jurisprudence of this Court, in recognizing the right to health and
access to medical care, demonstrates the crucial distinction between negative
and positive obligations. Article 21 does not impose upon the State only
negative obligations not to act in such a way as to interfere with the right
to health. This Court also has the power to impose positive obligations upon
the State to take measures to provide adequate resources or access to
treatment facilities to secure effective enjoyment of the right to health.197
79 A study of sexuality and its relationship to the right to health in South
Africa points to several other studies that suggest a negative correlation
between sexual orientation-based discrimination and the right to health: 196
Preamble to the Constitution of the World Health Organisation. 197 Jayna
Kothari, “Social Rights and the Indian Constitution”, Law, Social Justice and
Global Development Journal (2004).
97 PART G “For example, in a Canadian study, Brotman and colleagues found that
being open about their sexual orientation in health care settings contributed
to experiences of discrimination for lesbian, gay, and bisexual people.”198
“Lane and colleagues interviewed men who have sex with men in Soweto, and
revealed that all men who disclosed their sexual orientation at public health
facilities had experienced some form of discrimination. Such discrimination
[‘ranging from verbal abuse to denial of care’199], and also the anticipation
thereof, leads to delays when seeking sexual health services such as HIV
counseling and testing.”200 80 Alexandra Muller describes the story of two
individuals who experienced such discrimination. T, a gay man, broke both his
arms while fleeing from a group of people that attacked him because of his
sexuality. At the hospital, the staff learned about T’s sexual orientation,
and pejoratively discussed it in his presence. He also had to endure “a local
prayer group that visited the ward daily to provide spiritual support to
patients” which “prayed at his bedside to rectify his “devious” sexuality.
When he requested that they leave, or that he be transferred to another ward,
the nurses did not intervene, and the prayer group visited regularly to
continue to recite their homophobic prayers. T did not file an official
complaint, fearing future ramifications in accessing care. Following his
discharge, he decided not to return for follow up appointments and had his
casts removed at another facility.201 198 Supra note 185, at pages 195–208.
199 Ibid.
200 Ibid.
201 Ibid.
98 PART G Another woman, P, who had been with her female partner for three
years, wanted to get tested for HIV. The nurse at the hospital asked certain
questions to discern potential risk behaviours. When asked why she did not use
condoms or contraception, P revealed that she did not need to on account of
her sexuality. The nurse immediately exclaimed that P was not at risk for HIV,
and that she should “go home and not waste her time any longer.” P has not
attempted to have another HIV test since.202 These examples are illustrative
of a wider issue: individuals across the world are denied access to equal
healthcare on the basis of their sexual orientation. That people are
intimidated or blatantly denied healthcare access on a discriminatory basis
around the world proves that this issue is not simply an ideological tussle
playing out in classrooms and courtrooms, but an issue detrimentally affecting
individuals on the ground level and violating their rights including the right
to health.
81 The right to health is one of the major rights at stake in the struggle for
equality amongst gender and sexual minorities:203 “The right to physical and
mental health is at conflict with discriminatory policies and practices, some
physicians' homophobia, the lack of adequate training for health care 202
Ibid.
203 Study Guide: Sexual Orientation and Human Rights, University of Minnesota
Human RIghts Library (2003).  99 PART G personnel regarding sexual orientation
issues or the general assumption that patients are heterosexuals.”204 While
the enumeration of the right to equal healthcare is crucial, an individual’s
sexual health is also equally significant to holistic well-being. A healthy
sex life is integral to an individual’s physical and mental health, regardless
of whom an individual is attracted to. Criminalising certain sexual acts,
thereby shunning them from the mainstream discourse, would invariably lead to
situations of unsafe sex, coercion, and a lack of sound medical advice and
sexual education, if any at all.
82 A report by the Francois-Xavier Bagnoud Center for Health and Human Rights
at Harvard School of Public Health defines the term ‘sexual health’ as
follows:
> “A state of physical, emotional, mental, and social well-being in relation
> to sexuality. Like health generally, it is not merely the absence of
> disease, but encompasses positive and complex experiences of sexuality as
> well as freedom to determine sexual relationships, as well as the
> possibility of having pleasurable sexual experiences, free of coercion,
> discrimination and violence.”205 83 Laws that criminalize same-sex
> intercourse create social barriers to accessing healthcare, and curb the
> effective prevention and treatment of 204 Ibid.
205 Center for Health and Human Rights and Open Society Foundations. “Health
and Human Rights Resource Guide (2013).
100 PART G HIV/AIDS.206 Criminal laws are the strongest expression of the
State’s power to punish certain acts and behaviour, and it is therefore
incumbent upon the State to ensure full protection for all persons, including
the specific needs of sexual minorities. The equal protection of law mandates
the state to fulfill this constitutional obligation. Indeed, the state is duty
bound to revisit its laws and executive decisions to ensure that they do not
deny equality before the law and the equal protection of laws. That the law
must not discriminate is one aspect of equality. But there is more. The law
must take affirmative steps to achieve equal protection of law to all its
citizens, irrespective of sexual orientation.
In regard to sexuality and health, it is important to distinguish between
behaviour that is harmful to others, such as rape and coerced sex, and that
which is not, such as consensual same-sex conduct between adults, conduct
related to gender-expression such as cross-dressing, as well as seeking or
providing sexual and reproductive health information and services. The use of
criminal laws in relation to an expanding range of otherwise consensual sexual
conduct has been found to be discriminatory by international and 206 Supra
note 172.
101 PART G domestic courts, often together with violations of other human
rights, such as the rights to privacy, self-determination, human dignity and
health.207 G.I Section 377 and HIV prevention efforts 84 Section 377 has a
significant detrimental impact on the right to health of those persons who are
susceptible to contracting HIV – men who have sex with men (“MSM”)208 and
transgender persons.209 The Global Commission on HIV and the Law has noted the
impact of Section 377 on the right of health of persons afflicted with or
vulnerable to contracting HIV:
> “The law and its institutions can protect the dignity of all people living
> with HIV, and in so doing fortify those most vulnerable to HIV, so-called
> “key populations”, such as sex workers, MSM, transgender people, prisoners
> and migrants.
The law can open the doors to justice when these people’s rights are
trampled…. But the law can also do grave harm to the bodies and spirits of
people living with HIV. It can perpetuate discrimination and isolate the
people most vulnerable to HIV from the programmes that would help them to
avoid or cope with the virus. By dividing people into criminals and victims or
sinful and innocent, the legal environment can destroy the social, political,
and economic 207 Eszter Kismodi, Jane Cottingham, Sofia Gruskin & Alice M.
Miller, “Advancing sexual health through human rights: The role of the law”,
Taylor and Francis, (2015), at pages 252-267. 208 The term “men who have sex
with men” (MSM) denotes all men who have sex with men, regardless of their
sexual identity, sexual orientation and whether or not they also have sex with
females. MSM is an epidemiological term which focuses on sexual behaviours for
the purpose of HIV and STI surveillance. The assumption is that behaviour, not
sexual identity, places people at risk for HIV. See Regional Office for South-
East Asia, World Health Organization, “HIV/AIDS among men who have sex with
men and transgender populations in South-East Asia: the current situation and
national responses” (2010). 209 Transgender people continue to be included
under the umbrella term “MSM”. However, it has increasingly been recognized
that Transgender people have unique needs and concerns, and it would be more
useful to view them as a separate group. See Regional Office for South-East
Asia, World Health Organization, “HIV/AIDS among men who have sex with men and
transgender populations in South-East Asia: the current situation and national
responses” (2010).
102 PART G solidarity that is necessary to overcome this global epidemic.”210
85 Mr Anand Grover, learned Senior Counsel in his submissions, highlighted the
vulnerability of MSM and transgender persons. According to a study published
by the Global Commission on HIV and the Law, MSM were found to be 19 times
more susceptible to be infected with HIV than other adult men.211 86 The UN
Human Rights Committee has recognized the impact of the criminalization of
homosexuality on the spread of HIV/AIDS. In Toonen v Australia212, a
homosexual man from Tasmania, where homosexual sex was criminalized, argued
that criminalization of same-sex activities between consenting adults was an
infringement of his right to privacy under Article 17 of the International
Covenant on Civil and Political Rights (“ICCPR”). The Committee rejected the
argument of the Tasmanian authorities that the law was justified on grounds of
public health and morality as it was enacted to prevent the spread of HIV/AIDS
in Tasmania. The Committee observed that:
> “... the criminalization of homosexual practices cannot be considered a
> reasonable means or proportionate measure to achieve the aim of preventing
> the spread of AIDS/HIV … 210 United Nations Development Programme, “Global
> Commission on HIV and the Law: Risks, Rights and Health” (2012), at pages
> 11-12.
211 Ibid at page 45; HIV prevalence amongst MSM is 4.3% and amongst
transgender persons it is 7.5% as opposed to the overall adult HIV prevalence
of 0.26%.
212 Communication No. 488/1992, U.N. Doc CCPR/C/50/D/488/1992 (1994), decision
dated 31/03/1994.  103 PART G Criminalization of homosexual activity thus
would appear to run counter to the implementation of effective education
programmes in respect of the HIV/AIDS prevention. Secondly, the Committee
notes that no link has been shown between the continued criminalization of
homosexual activity and the effective control of the spread of the HIV/AIDS
virus.” In response to the Committee’s decision, a law was enacted to overcome
the Tasmanian law criminalizing homosexual sex. 87 Section 377 has had far-
reaching consequences for this “key population”, pushing them out of the
public health system. MSM and transgender persons may not approach State
health care providers for fear of being prosecuted for engaging in
criminalized intercourse. Studies show that it is the stigma attached to these
individuals that contributes to increased sexual risk behaviour and/or
decreased use of HIV prevention services.213 88 The silence and secrecy that
accompanies institutional discrimination may foster conditions which encourage
escalation of the incidence of HIV/AIDS.214 The key population is stigmatized
by health providers, employers and other service providers.215 As a result,
there exist serious obstacles to effective HIV prevention and treatment as
discrimination and 213 Beena Thomas, Matthew J. Mimiaga, Senthil Kumar, Soumya
Swaminathan, Steven A. Safren, and Kenneth H. Mayer, “HIV in Indian MSM:
Reasons for a concentrated epidemic & strategies for prevention”, Indian
Journal Medical Research (2011), at pages 920–929.
214 Ibid.
215 Ibid.
104 PART G harassment can hinder access to HIV and sexual health services and
prevention programmes.216 89 An incisive article, based on extensive empirical
research carried out in various countries, has concluded that there is a
demonstrable relationship between “laws which criminalize same-sex conduct and
adverse health effects on HIV-AIDs rates as well as other health indicators
for the MSM community” due to poor access to key HIV prevention tools and
outreach programmes.217 According to a report published by the Joint United
Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS (“UNAIDS”), in Caribbean countries where same-
sex relations are criminalised, almost one in four MSMs is infected with
HIV.218 In the absence of such criminal provisions, the prevalence of HIV is
one in fifteen among MSMs.219 90 Closer to home, the UNAIDS project found that
in the four years following the judgement in Naz, there had been an increase
of more than 50% in the number of healthcare centers providing HIV services to
MSM and transgender persons in India.220 If same-sex relations remain
criminalised, it is 216 Ibid.
217 Supra note 172, at page 636.
218 Supra note 210, at page 45.
219 Ibid.
220 UNAIDS, “UNAIDS Calls on India and All Countries to Repeal Laws That
Criminalize Adult Consensual Same Sex Sexual Conduct” (2013).
105 PART G likely that HIV interventions for MSMs will continue to be
inadequate, MSMs will continue to be marginalised from health services, and
the prevalence of HIV will exacerbate.221 91 To safeguard the health of
persons who are at the greatest risk of HIV infection, it is imperative that
access is granted to effective HIV prevention and treatment services and
commodities such as clean needles, syringes, condoms and lubricants.222 A
needle or a condom can only be considered a concrete representation of the
entitlements of vulnerable groups: the fundamental human rights of dignity,
autonomy and freedom from ill- treatment, along with the right to the highest
attainable standard of physical and mental health, without regard to sexuality
or legal status.223 This is the mandate of the Directive Principles contained
in Part IV of the Constitution. 92 In 2017, Parliament enacted the HIV
(Prevention and Control) Act, to provide for the prevention and control of the
spread of HIV/AIDS and for the protection of the human rights of persons
affected. Parliament recognized the importance of prevention interventions for
vulnerable groups including MSMs. Section 22 of this Act provides for
protection against criminal sanctions as well as any civil liability arising
out of promoting actions or practices or “any 221 UNAIDS, “Judging the
Epidemic: A Judicial Handbook on HIV, Human Rights and the Law” (2013) at page
165. 222 Supra note 210, at page 26.
223 Ibid, at page 26.
106 PART G strategy or mechanism or technique” undertaken for reducing the
risk of HIV transmission. Illustrations (a) and (b) to Section 22 read as
follows:
> “(a) A supplies condoms to B who is a sex worker or to C, who is a client of
> B. Neither A nor B nor C can be held criminally or civilly liable for such
> actions or be prohibited, impeded, restricted or prevented from implementing
> or using the strategy.
> (b) M carries on an intervention project on HIV or AIDS and sexual health
> information, education and counselling for men, who have sex with men,
> provides safer sex information, material and condoms to N, who has sex with
> other men.
Neither M nor N can be held criminally or civilly liable for such actions or
be prohibited, impeded, restricted or prevented from implementing or using the
intervention.” Persons who engage in anal or oral intercourse face significant
sexual health risks due to the operation of Section 377. Prevalence rates of
HIV are high, particularly among men who have sex with men. Discrimination,
stigma and a lack of knowledge on the part of many healthcare providers means
that these individuals often cannot and do not access the health care they
need. In order to promote sexual health and reduce HIV transmission among LGBT
individuals, it is imperative that the availability, effectiveness, and
quality of health services to the LGBT community be significantly improved.
Under our constitutional scheme, no minority group must suffer deprivation of
a constitutional right because they do not adhere to the majoritarian way of
life. By the application of Section 377 of the Indian Penal Code, MSM and
transgender persons are excluded from access to healthcare due to the  107
PART G societal stigma attached to their sexual identity. Being particularly
vulnerable to contraction of HIV, this deprivation can only be described as
cruel and debilitating. The indignity suffered by the sexual minority cannot,
by any means, stand the test of constitutional validity. G.2 Mental health 93
The treatment of homosexuality as a disorder has serious consequences on the
mental health and well-being of LGBT persons. The mental health of citizens
“growing up in a culture that devalues and silences same-sex desire” is
severely impacted.224 Global psychiatric expert Dinesh Bhugra has emphasised
that radical solutions are needed to combat the high levels of mental illness
among the LGBT population stating there is a “clear correlation between
political and social environments” and how persecutory laws against LGBT
individuals are leading to greater levels of depression, anxiety, self-harm,
and suicide. Even in Britain, gay people are at greater risk of a range of
mental health problems, and, it is believed, are more likely to take their own
lives.
“A number of studies this year have highlighted the disproportionate levels of
mental illness among LGBT people. In Britain, one of the world's most legally
equal countries for this community, research in the last few months has
revealed that LGBT people are nearly twice as likely to have 224 Ketki Ranade,
“Process of Sexual Identity Development for Young People with Same Sex
Desires: Experiences of Exclusion”, Psychological Foundations - The Journal
(2008).  108 PART G attempted suicide or harmed themselves, gay men are more
than twice as likely to have a mental illness than heterosexual men, and 4 in
5 transgender people have suffered depression in the last five years.”225
(Emphasis supplied) He discusses studies from various countries which indicate
that in countries where laws continue to discriminate against LGBT
individuals, there are high rates of mental illness. Similarly he states that
there have been a series of studies showing that in America, rates of
psychiatric disorders have dropped when state policies have recognised the
equal rights of LGBT individuals. 94 Mr Chander Uday Singh, learned Senior
Counsel appearing on behalf of an intervenor, a psychiatrist, has brought to
our notice how even the mental health sector has often reflected the societal
prejudice regarding homosexuality as a pathological condition.
95 Medical and scientific authority has now established that consensual same
sex conduct is not against the order of nature and that homosexuality is
natural and a normal variant of sexuality. Parliament has provided legislative
acknowledgment of this global consensus through the enactment of the Mental
Healthcare Act, 2017. Section 3 of the Act mandates that mental illness is to
be determined in accordance with ‘nationally’ or ‘internationally’ 225 Dinesh
Bhugra, globally renowned psychiatrist (article annexed in compilation
provided by Mr. Chander Uday Singh, learned Senior Counsel).
109 PART G accepted medical standards. The International Classification of
Diseases (ICD-10) by the World Health Organisation is listed as an
internationally accepted medical standard and does not consider non-peno-
vaginal sex between consenting adults either a mental disorder or an illness.
The Act through Section 18(2)226 and Section 21227 provides for protection
against discrimination on the grounds of sexual orientation. The repercussions
of prejudice, stigma and discrimination continue to impact the psychological
well-being of individuals impacted by Section 377. Mental health professionals
can take this change in the law as an opportunity to re- examine their own
views of homosexuality.
96 Counselling practices will have to focus on providing support to homosexual
clients to become comfortable with who they are and get on with their lives,
rather than motivating them for change. Instead of trying to cure something
that isn’t even a disease or illness, the counsellors have to adopt a more
progressive view that reflects the changed medical position and 226 Section
18. Right to access mental healthcare.—(1) Every person shall have a right to
access mental healthcare and treatment from mental health services run or
funded by the appropriate Government. (2) The right to access mental
healthcare and treatment shall mean mental health services of affordable cost,
of good quality, available in sufficient quantity, accessible geographically,
without discrimination on the basis of gender, sex, sexual orientation,
religion, culture, caste, social or political beliefs, class, disability or
any other basis and provided in a manner that is acceptable to persons with
mental illness and their families and care-givers. 227 Section 21. Right to
equality and non-discrimination.—(1) Every person with mental illness shall be
treated as equal to persons with physical illness in the provision of all
healthcare which shall include the following, namely:—
(a) there shall be no discrimination on any basis including gender, sex,
sexual orientation, religion, culture, caste, social or political beliefs,
class or disability.  110 PART H changing societal values. There is not only a
need for special skills of counsellors but also heightened sensitivity and
understanding of LGBT lives. The medical practice must share the
responsibility to help individuals, families, workplaces and educational and
other institutions to understand sexuality completely in order to facilitate
the creation of a society free from discrimination228 where LGBT individuals
like all other citizens are treated with equal standards of respect and value
for human rights.
    H          Judicial review
    97         The Constitution entrusts the function of making laws to Parliament and
the State Legislatures under Articles 245 and 246 of the Constitution.
Parliament and the State Legislatures are empowered to create offences against
laws with respect to the heads of legislation, falling within the purview of
their legislative authority. (See Entry 93 of List I and Entry 64 of List II
of the Seventh Schedule). Criminal law is a subject which falls within the
Concurrent List. Entry I of List III provides thus:
> “1. Criminal law, including all matters included in the Indian Penal Code at
> the commencement of this Constitution but excluding offences against laws
> with respect to any of the matters specified in List I or List II and
> excluding the use of naval, military or air forces or any other armed forces
> of the Union in aid of the civil power.” 228 Vinay Chandran, “From judgement
> to practice: Section 377 and the medical sector”, Indian Journal of Medical
> Ethics, Vol. 4 (2009).
111
PART H The power to enact legislation in the field of criminal law has been
entrusted to Parliament and, subject to its authority, to the State
Legislatures. Both Parliament and the State Legislatures can enact laws
providing for offences arising out of legislation falling within their
legislative domains. The authority to enact law, however, is subject to the
validity of the law being scrutinised on the touchstone of constitutional
safeguards. A citizen, or, as in the present case, a community of citizens,
having addressed a challenge to the validity of a law which creates an
offence, the authority to determine that question is entrusted to the judicial
branch in the exercise of the power of judicial review. The Court will not, as
it does not, in the exercise of judicial review, second guess a value judgment
made by the legislature on the need for or the efficacy of legislation. But
where a law creating an offence is found to be offensive to fundamental
rights, such a law is not immune to challenge. The constitutional authority
which is entrusted to the legislatures to create offences is subject to the
mandate of a written Constitution. Where the validity of the law is called
into question, judicial review will extend to scrutinising whether the law is
manifestly arbitrary in its encroachment on fundamental liberties. If a law
discriminates against a group or a community of citizens by denying them full
and equal participation as citizens, in the rights and liberties granted by
the Constitution, it would be for the Court to adjudicate upon validity of
such a law.
                                           112
                                                                                                                 PART I
    I          India’s commitments at International Law
    98         International human rights treaties and jurisprudence impose obligations
upon States to protect all individuals from violations of their human rights,
including on the basis of their sexual orientation.229 Nevertheless, laws
criminalizing same-sex relations between consenting adults remain on the
statute books in more than seventy countries. Many of them, including so-
called “sodomy laws”, are vestiges of colonial-era legislation that prohibits
either certain types of sexual activity or any intimacy or sexual activity
between persons of the same sex.230 In some cases, the language used refers to
vague and indeterminate concepts, such as ‘crimes against the order of
nature’, ‘morality’, or ‘debauchery’.231 There is a familiar ring to it in
India, both in terms of history and text.
99 International law today has evolved towards establishing that the
criminalization of consensual sexual acts between same-sex adults in private
contravenes the rights to equality, privacy, and freedom from discrimination.
These rights are recognised in international treaties, covenants, and 229
Dominic McGoldrick, “The Development and Status of Sexual Orientation
Discrimination under International Human Rights Law”, Human Rights Law Review,
Vol. 16 (2016). 230 UN Human Rights Council, “Discriminatory laws and
practices and acts of violence against individuals based on their sexual
orientation and gender identity” (2011). 231 UN Human Rights Council,
“Promotion and Protection of all Human Rights, Civil, Political, Economic,
Social and Cultural Rights, including the Right to Development” (2008).  113
PART I agreements which India has ratified, including the UDHR, ICCPR, and the
ICESCR. India has a constitutional duty to honour these internationally
recognized rules and principles.232 Article 51 of the Constitution, which
forms part of the Directive Principles of State Policy, requires the State to
endeavour to “foster respect for international law and treaty obligations in
the dealings of organised peoples with one another.” 100 The human rights
treaties that India has ratified require States Parties to guarantee the
rights to equality before the law, equal protection of the law and freedom
from discrimination. For example, Article 2 of the ICESCR requires states to
ensure that:
> “The rights enunciated in the present Covenant will be exercised without
> discrimination of any kind as to race, colour, sex, language, religion,
> political or other opinion, national or social origin, property, birth or
> other status.” 101 The Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights -
> the body mandated by the ICESCR to monitor States Parties’ implementation of
> the treaty – has stated that “other status” in article 2 (2) includes sexual
> orientation, and reaffirmed that “gender identity is recognized as among the
> 232 Vishaka v State of Rajasthan, (1997) 6 SCC 241.
114
PART I prohibited grounds of discrimination”, as “persons who are transgender,
transsexual or intersex often face serious human rights violations.”233 102
The prohibition against discrimination in the ICCPR is contained in Article
26, which guarantees equality before the law:
> “All persons are equal before the law and are entitled without any
> discrimination to the equal protection of the law. In this respect, the law
> shall prohibit any discrimination and guarantee to all persons equal and
> effective protection against discrimination on any ground such as race,
> colour, sex, language, religion, political or other opinion, national or
> social origin, property, birth or other status.” India is also required to
> protect the right to privacy, which includes within its ambit the right to
> engage in consensual same-sex sexual relations.234 Article 12 of the UDHR
> recognises the right to privacy:
> “Article 12: No one shall be subjected to arbitrary interference with his
> privacy, family, home or correspondence, nor to attacks upon his honour and
> reputation. Everyone has the right to the protection of the law against such
> interference or attacks.” 233 Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural
> Rights, “General Comment 20: Non-discrimination in economic, social and
> cultural rights” (2009), at para 32.
> 234 Toonen.
115
PART I Similarly, Article 17 of the ICCPR, which India ratified on 11 December
1977, provides that:
> “The obligations imposed by this article require the State to adopt
> legislative and other measures to give effect to the prohibition against
> such interferences and attacks as well as to the protection of the right.”
> In its General Comment No. 16, the Human Rights Committee confirmed that any
> interference with privacy, even if provided for by law, “should be in
> accordance with the provisions, aims and objectives of the Covenant and
> should be, in any event, reasonable in the particular circumstances.”235 In
> their general comments, concluding observations and views on communications,
> human rights treaty bodies have affirmed that States are obliged to protect
> individuals from discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation and/or
> gender identity, as these factors do not limit an individual’s entitlement
> to enjoy the full range of human rights to which they are entitled.236 103
> In NALSA, while dealing with the rights of transgender persons, this Court
> recognized the ‘Yogyakarta Principles on the Application of International
> Law in Relation to Issues of Sexual Orientation and Gender Identity’ – which
> 235 Supra note 230, at page 6.
236 Ibid.
116 PART I outline the rights that sexual minorities enjoy as human persons
under the protection of international law – and held that they should be
applied as a part of Indian law. Principle 33 provides thus:
> “Everyone has the right to be free from criminalisation and any form of
> sanction arising directly or indirectly from that person’s actual or
> perceived sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression or sex
> characteristics.” While the Yogyakarta Principles are not legally binding,
> NALSA nevertheless signifies an affirmation of the right to non-
> discrimination on the grounds of gender identity, as well as the relevance
> of international human rights norms in addressing violations of these
> rights.
104 There is a contradiction between India’s international obligations and
Section 377 of the Indian Penal Code, insofar as it criminalizes consensual
sexual acts between same-sex adults in private. In adjudicating the validity
of this provision, the Indian Penal Code must be brought into conformity with
both the Indian Constitution and the rules and principles of international law
that India has recognized. Both make a crucial contribution towards
recognizing the human rights of sexual and gender minorities.
                                                117
                                                                              PART J
    J          Transcending borders - comparative law
105 Over the past several decades, international and domestic courts have
developed a strong body of jurisprudence against discrimination based on
sexual orientation. This section analyses the evolution of the perspective of
the law towards sexual orientation from a comparative law perspective, and
looks at how sodomy laws have been construed in various jurisdictions based on
their histories.
106 In 1967, England and Wales decriminalized same-sex intercourse between
consenting adult males in private, and in 1980, Scotland followed suit. The
law in Northern Ireland only changed in 1982 with the decision of the ECtHR in
Dudgeon v The United Kingdom (“Dudgeon”).237 The Petitioners challenged the
Offences against the Person Act, 1861, the Criminal Law Amendment Act, 1885
and a sodomy law that made buggery and “gross indecency” a criminal offense,
irrespective of consent. Although the law did not specifically define these
terms, the Court interpreted ‘buggery’ to mean anal intercourse by a man with
a man or woman and gross indecency to mean any act “involving sexual indecency
between male persons.” Regarding acts prohibited by these provisions, the
ECtHR observed that: 237 App No 7525/76, (1981) ECHR 5.
118 PART J “Although it is not homosexuality itself which is prohibited but
the particular acts of gross indecency between males and buggery, there can be
no doubt but that male homosexual practices whose prohibition is the subject
of the applicant’s complaints come within the scope of the offences punishable
under the impugned legislation.” The ECtHR concluded that Dudgeon had suffered
and continued to suffer an unjustified interference with his right to respect
for his private life. Hence, the Court struck down the laws under challenge as
violative of Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights, in so far
as they criminalised “private homosexual relations between adult males capable
of valid consent.” In observing that these laws were not proportionate to
their purported need, the Court observed:
> “On the issue of proportionality, the Court considers that such
> justifications as there are for retaining the law in force unamended are
> outweighed by the detrimental effects which the very existence of the
> legislative provisions in question can have on the life of a person of
> homosexual orientation like the applicant. Although members of the public
> who regard homosexuality as immoral may be shocked, offended or disturbed by
> the commission by others of private homosexual acts, this cannot on its own
> warrant the application of penal sanctions when it is consenting adults
> alone who are involved.”238 The ECtHR thus concluded:
> “To sum up, the restriction imposed on Mr. Dudgeon under Northern Ireland
> law, by reason of its breadth and absolute character, is, quite apart from
> the severity of the possible 238 Ibid, at para 60.
119
> PART J penalties provided for, disproportionate to the aims sought to be
> achieved.”239 Later, in Norris v Ireland240, the Applicant challenged
> Ireland's criminalization of certain homosexual acts between consenting
> adult men as being violative of Article 8 of the European Convention on
> Human Rights, which protected the right to respect for private and family
> life. The ECtHR held that the law violated Article 8, regardless of whether
> it was actively enforced:
> “A law which remains on the statute books even though it is not enforced in
> a particular class of cases for a considerable time, may be applied again in
> such cases at any time, if for example, there is a change of policy. The
> applicant can therefore be said to ‘run the risk of being directly affected’
> by the legislation in question.” This decision was affirmed in Modinos v
> Cyprus241, where the Criminal Code of Cyprus, which penalized homosexual
> conduct, was alleged to constitute an unjustified interference with the
> Applicant’s private life.
> 107 Five years after Dudgeon, the United States Supreme Court, in Bowers v.
> Hardwick (“Bowers”)242, held that “sodomy” laws had been a significant part
> of American history and did not violate the Constitution. The Supreme
> Court’s reasoning in Bowers is a clear departure from that of the 239 Ibid,
> at para 61.
240 Application No. 10581/83, (1988) ECHR 22. 241 Application No. 15070/89,16
EHRR 485.
242 478 U.S. 186 (1986).
120 PART J ECtHR in Dudgeon. In Bowers, the Supreme Court declined to accept
that the question concerned the right to privacy. Instead, it stated that the
issue was about "a fundamental right upon homosexuals to engage in sodomy”,243
which was held not to be protected by the US Constitution. Seventeen years
later, the United States Supreme Court laid the constitutional foundation for
LGBT rights in the country with its judgment in Lawrence v Texas
(“Lawrence”).244 In Lawrence, the Petitioner had been arrested under a Texas
statute, which prohibited same-sex persons from engaging in sexual conduct,
regardless of consent. The validity of the statute was considered. Relying on
Dudgeon, the U S Supreme Court struck down the statute as violative of the Due
Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment to the U.S. Constitution.
Overruling the judgment in Bowers, Justice Kennedy, writing for the majority,
upheld Justice Stevens’ dissent in Bowers – who was also part of the majority
in Lawrence – to note that:
> “Our prior cases make two propositions abundantly clear. First, the fact
> that the governing majority in a State has traditionally viewed a particular
> practice as immoral is not a sufficient reason for upholding a law
> prohibiting the practice;
neither history nor tradition could save a law prohibiting miscegenation from
constitutional attack. Second, individual 243 Bowers, at para 190.
244 539 U.S. 558 (2003).
121 PART J decisions by married persons, concerning the intimacies of their
physical relationship, even when not intended to produce offspring, are a form
of “liberty” protected by the Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.
Moreover, this protection extends to intimate choices by unmarried as well as
married persons.”245 He also noted that the case concerned the private,
personal relationships of consenting adults, and that the laws challenged did
not further any legitimate state interest:
> “The present case does not involve minors. It does not involve persons who
> might be injured or coerced or who are situated in relationships where
> consent might not easily be refused. It does not involve public conduct or
> prostitution. It does not involve whether the government must give formal
> recognition to any relationship that homosexual persons seek to enter [eg, a
> right to marry or to register a ‘civil union’]. The case does involve two
> adults who, with full and mutual consent from each other, engaged in sexual
> practices common to a homosexual lifestyle. The petitioners are entitled to
> respect for their private lives. The State cannot demean their existence or
> control their destiny by making their private sexual conduct a crime. Their
> right to liberty under the Due Process Clause gives them the full right to
> engage in their conduct without intervention of the government. ... The
> Texas statute furthers no legitimate state interest which can justify its
> intrusion into the personal and private life of the individual....” 108
> Justice Kennedy also identified the harm caused by the operation of the
> criminal law:
> “When homosexual conduct is made criminal by the law of the State, that
> declaration in and of itself is an invitation to 245 Bowers, at para 216.
122
PART J subject homosexual persons to discrimination both in the public and in
the private spheres.” The Court thus struck down the Texas law banning
“deviate sexual intercourse” between persons of the same sex (and similar laws
in 13 other US states and Puerto Rico), holding that:
> “The laws involved in Bowers and here are, to be sure, statutes that purport
> to do no more than prohibit a particular sexual act. Their penalties and
> purposes, though, have more far-reaching consequences, touching upon the
> most private human conduct, sexual behavior, and in the most private of
> places, the home. The statutes do seek to control a personal relationship
> that, whether or not entitled to formal recognition in the law, is within
> the liberty of persons to choose without being punished as criminals.”
> (Emphasis supplied) 109 In Toonen, the UN Human Rights Committee held that
> laws used to criminalize private, adult, consensual same-sex sexual
> relations violate the right to privacy and the right to non-discrimination.
> Mr Toonen – a member of the Tasmanian Gay Law Reform Group – had complained
> to the Committee about a Tasmanian law that criminalized ‘unnatural sexual
> intercourse’, ‘intercourse against nature’ and ‘indecent practice between
> male persons’.
The law allowed police officers to investigate intimate aspects of his private
life and to detain him if they had reason to believe that he was involved in
sexual activities with his long-term partner in the privacy of their home. Mr
123 PART J Toonen challenged these laws as violative of Article 2(1)246,
Article 17247 and Article 26248 of the ICCPR, on the ground that:
> “[The provisions] have created the conditions for discrimination in
> employment, constant stigmatization, vilification, threats of physical
> violence and the violation of basic democratic rights.”249 The Committee
> rejected the argument that criminalization may be justified as “reasonable”
> on grounds of protection of public health or morals, noting that the use of
> criminal law in such circumstances is neither necessary nor
> proportionate:250 “As far as the public health argument of the Tasmanian
> authorities is concerned, the Committee notes that the criminalization of
> homosexual practices cannot be considered a reasonable means or
> proportionate measure to achieve the aim of preventing the spread of
> AIDS/HIV.” 246 Article 2(1): Each State Party to the present Covenant
> undertakes to respect and to ensure to all individuals within its territory
> and subject to its jurisdiction the rights recognized in the present
> Covenant, without distinction of any kind, such as race, colour, sex,
> language, religion, political or other opinion, national or social origin,
> property, birth or other status.
247 Article 17: No one shall be subjected to arbitrary or unlawful
interference with his privacy, family, home or correspondence, nor to unlawful
attacks on his honour and reputation. 248 Article 26: All persons are equal
before the law and are entitled without any discrimination to the equal
protection of the law. In this respect, the law shall prohibit any
discrimination and guarantee to all persons equal and effective protection
against discrimination on any ground such as race, colour, sex, language,
religion, political or other opinion, national or social origin, property,
birth or other status. 249 Toonen, at para 2.4.
250 Toonen, at para. 8.5.
124 PART J The Court concluded that the legislation was violative of Article 7
of the ICCPR, holding that:
> “… It is undisputed that adult consensual sexual activity in private is
> covered by the concept of “privacy”, and that Mr. Toonen is actually and
> currently affected by the continued existence of the Tasmanian laws.”251 110
> In X v. Colombia252, the Committee clarified that there is no “Global South
> exception” to Toonen.253 The Egyptian and Tunisian members of the Committee,
> who dissented from the majority’s decision requiring equal treatment of
> unmarried same-sex and different-sex couples, concurred with the principle
> laid down in Toonen:
> “[T]here is no doubt that [A]rticle 17…is violated by discrimination on
> grounds of sexual orientation. The Committee…has rightly and repeatedly
> found that protection against arbitrary or unlawful interference with
> privacy precludes prosecution and punishment for homosexual relations
> between consenting adults.” 111 The Constitutional Tribunal of Ecuador was
> the first Constitutional Court in the Global South to decriminalise sodomy
> laws.254 The constitutionality of Article 516 of the Penal Code, which
> penalised “cases of homosexualism, that do not constitute rape”, was
> challenged before the Tribunal. The Tribunal’s 251 Toonen, at para 8.2.
252 Communication No. 1361/2005.
> 253 Robert Wintemute, “Same-Sex Love and Indian Penal Code §377: An
> Important Human Rights Issue for India” National University of Juridical
> Sciences Law Review, (2011).
254 Case No. 111-97-TC (27 November 1997). 125
PART J reasoning was that “this abnormal behaviour should be the object of
medical treatment ... imprisonment in jails, creates a suitable environment
for the development of this dysfunction.” The Tribunal’s line of reasoning –
referring to homosexual activity as ‘abnormal behaviour’, requiring medical
treatment – is seriously problematic.255 That assumption is unfounded in fact
and is an incorrect doctrine for a constitutional court which protects liberty
and dignity. However ultimately, the Tribunal struck down the first paragraph
of Article 516 of the Penal Code, holding that:
> “Homosexuals are above all holders of all the rights of the human person and
> therefore, have the right to exercise them in conditions of full equality
> ... that is to say that their rights enjoy legal protection, as long as in
> the exteriorisation of their behaviour they do not harm the rights of
> others, as is the case with all other persons.” 112 The adverse impact of
> sodomy laws on the lives of homosexual adults was also considered by the
> Constitutional Court of South Africa in National Coalition for Gay and
> Lesbian Equality v. Minister of Justice (“National Coalition”)256, in which
> the constitutionality of the common law offence of sodomy and other
> legislations which penalised unnatural sexual acts between men was at issue.
> The Constitutional Court unanimously found that the sodomy laws, all of
> which purported to proscribe sexual intimacy between 255 The Tribunal’s
> decision was criticized by LGBT rights activists for its description of
> homosexuality as “abnormal conduct.” However, a year after this decision,
> Ecuador became the third country in the world to include sexual orientation
> as a constitutionally protected category against discrimination.
256 1999 (1) SA 6 (CC).
126 PART J homosexual adult men, violated their right to equality and
discriminated against them on the basis of their sexual orientation. Justice
Ackerman, concurring with the ECtHR’s observation in Norris, noted that:
> “The discriminatory prohibitions on sex between men reinforces already
> existing societal prejudices and severely increases the negative effects of
> such prejudices on their lives.”257 Justice Ackerman quoted from Edwin
> Cameron’s “Sexual Orientation and the Constitution: A Test Case for Human
> Rights”258:
> “Even when these provisions are not enforced, they reduce gay men… to what
> one author has referred to as ‘unapprehended felons’, thus entrenching
> stigma and encouraging discrimination in employment and insurance and in
> judicial decisions about custody and other matters bearing on
> orientation.”259 (Emphasis supplied) Commenting on the violation of
> individuals’ rights to privacy and dignity, the Court held that:
> “Gay people are a vulnerable minority group in our society. Sodomy laws
> criminalise their most intimate relationships. This devalues and degrades
> gay men and therefore constitutes a violation of their fundamental right to
> dignity.
> Furthermore, the offences criminalise private conduct 257 National
> Coalition, at para 23.
258 (1993) 110 SALJ 450.
259 National Coalition, at para 23.
127 PART J between consenting adults which causes no harm to anyone else. This
intrusion on the innermost sphere of human life violates the constitutional
right to privacy. The fact that the offences, which lie at the heart of the
discrimination, also violate the rights to privacy and dignity strengthens the
conclusion that the discrimination against gay men is unfair.” In its
conclusion, the Court held that all persons have a right to a “sphere of
private intimacy and autonomy that allows [them] to establish and nurture
human relationships without interference from the outside community.”260 113
In 2005, the High Court of Fiji, in Dhirendra Nadan Thomas McCoskar v.
State261, struck down provisions of the Fijian Penal Code, which punished any
person who permits a male person to have “carnal knowledge” of him, as well as
acts of “gross indecency” between male persons. The High Court read down the
provisions to the extent that they were inconsistent with the Constitution of
Fiji, drawing a clear distinction between consensual and non- consensual
sexual behavior:
> “What the constitution requires is that the Law acknowledges difference,
> affirms dignity and allows equal respect to every citizen as they are. The
> acceptance of difference celebrates diversity. The affirmation of individual
> dignity offers respect to the whole of society. The promotion of equality
> can be a source of interactive vitality…A country so founded will put sexual
> expression in private relationships into its proper perspective and allow
> citizens to define their own good moral sensibilities leaving the law to its
> necessary duties 260 National Coalition, at para 32.
261 [2005] FJHC 500.
128 PART J of keeping sexual expression in check by protecting the vulnerable
and penalizing the predator.” (Emphasis supplied) In recent years, the
Caribbean States of Belize and Trinidad and Tobago have also decriminalized
consensual sexual acts between adults in private. In Caleb Orozco v. The
Attorney General of Belize (“Caleb Orozco”)262, provisions of the Belize
Criminal Code which penalized “every person who has intercourse against the
order of nature with any person…” were challenged before the Supreme Court.
Commenting on the concept of dignity, Justice Benjamin borrowed from the
Canadian Supreme Court’s observations and noted that:263 “Human dignity means
that an individual or group feels self- respect and self-worth. It is
concerned with physical and psychological integrity and empowerment. Human
dignity is harmed by unfair treatment premised upon personal traits or
circumstances which do not relate to the individual needs, capacities or
merits. It is enhanced by laws which are sensitive to the needs, capacities
and merits of different individuals, taking into account the context
underlying the differences.” (Emphasis supplied) Relying on the judgments in
Dudgeons, National Coalition, McCoskar, Toonen, and Lawrence, the Supreme
Court struck down the provision as violative of the claimant’s constitutional
rights to privacy, dignity, and equality. Justice Benjamin held thus:
262 Claim No. 668 of 2010. 263 Law v Canada (Minister of Employment and
Immigration) [1999] 1 S.C.R. 497.  129 PART J “However, from the perspective
of legal principle, the Court cannot act upon prevailing majority views or
what is popularly accepted as moral…There must be demonstrated that some harm
will be caused should the proscribed conduct be rendered unregulated. No
evidence has been presented as to the real likelihood of such harm. The duty
of the Court is to apply the provisions of the Constitution.”264 114 In Jason
Jones v. The Attorney General of Trinidad and Tobago (“Jones”)265, an
expatriate gay rights activist living in the United Kingdom challenged the
provisions of Trinidad and Tobago’s Sexual Offences Act, which criminalized
‘buggery’ and ‘serious indecency’ before the High Court of Justice at Trinidad
and Tobago. The central issue before the Court was whether the provisions were
‘saved’ under Section 6 of the Constitution, which protects laws that were in
existence before the Constitution came into force and were only marginally
changed since, from being struck down for breach of fundamental rights.
The High Court struck down the provisions as unconstitutional, observing that
the right to choose a partner and to have a family is intrinsic to an
individual’s personal autonomy and dignity:
> “To this court, human dignity is a basic and inalienable right recognized
> worldwide in all democratic societies. Attached to that right is the concept
> of autonomy and the right of an individual to make decisions for
> herself/himself without any 264 Caleb Orozco, at para 81.
265 Claim no. CV2017-00720.
130 PART J unreasonable intervention by the State. In a case such as this,
she/he must be able to make decisions as to who she/he loves, incorporates in
his/her life, who she/he wishes to live with and with who to make a
family.”266 The High Court also held that the existence of such laws
deliberately undermined the lives of homosexuals:
> “A citizen should not have to live under the constant threat, the proverbial
> “Sword of Damocles,” that at any moment she/he may be persecuted or
> prosecuted. That is the threat that exists at present. It is a threat that
> is sanctioned by the State and that sanction is an important sanction
> because it justifies in the mind of others in society who are differently
> minded, that the very lifestyle, life and existence of a person who chooses
> to live in the way that the claimant does is criminal and is deemed to be of
> a lesser value than anyone else…The Parliament has taken the deliberate
> decision to criminalise the lifestyle of persons like the claimant whose
> ultimate expression of love and affection is crystallised in an act which is
> statutorily unlawful, whether or not enforced.”267 (Emphasis supplied) The
> High Court compared the impugned provisions to racial segregation, the
> Holocaust, and apartheid, observing that:
> “To now deny a perceived minority their right to humanity and human dignity
> would be to continue this type of thinking, this type of perceived
> superiority, based on the genuinely held beliefs of some.”268 266 Jones, at
> para 91.
> 267 Ibid.
268 Jones, at para 171.
131 PART J 115 In Leung TC William Roy v. Secretary for Justice269, the High
Court of Hong Kong considered the constitutional validity of provisions that
prescribed different ages of consent for buggery and regular sexual
intercourse. The court held that these provisions violated the petitioner’s
rights to privacy and equality:
> “Denying persons of a minority class the right to sexual expression in the
> only way available to them, even if that way is denied to all, remains
> discriminatory when persons of a majority class are permitted the right to
> sexual expression in a way natural to them. During the course of
> submissions, it was described as ‘disguised discrimination’. It is, I think,
> an apt description. It is disguised discrimination founded on a single base:
> sexual orientation.”270 The Court concluded that the difference in the ages
> of consent was unjustifiable, noting that:
> “No evidence has been placed before us to explain why the minimum age
> requirement for buggery is 21 whereas as far as sexual intercourse between a
> man and a woman is concerned, the age of consent is only 16. There is, for
> example, no medical reason for this and none was suggested in the course of
> argument.”271 Courts around the world have not stopped at decriminalizing
> sodomy laws;
> they have gone a step further and developed a catena of broader rights and
> protections for homosexuals. These rights go beyond the mere freedom to 269
> Civil Appeal No. 317 of 2005. 270 Ibid, at para 48.
271 Ibid, at para 51.
132 PART J engage in consensual sexual activity in private, and include the
right to full citizenship, the right to form unions and the right to family
life. 116 Israel was one of the first countries to recognize the rights of
homosexuals against discrimination in matters of employment. In El-Al Israel
Airlines Ltd v. Jonathan Danielwitz (“El-Al Israel Airlines”)272, the Supreme
Court of Israel considered an airline company’s policy of giving discounted
tickets to their employees and a ‘companion recognized as the husband/wife of
the employee’. This benefit was also given to a partner with whom the employee
was living together like husband and wife, but not married. However, the
airline refused to give the discounted tickets to the Respondent and his male
partner.
The Supreme Court of Israel observed thus:
> “The principle of equality demands that the existence of a rule that treats
> people differently is justified by the nature and substance of the
> issue…therefore, a particular law will create discrimination when two
> individuals who are different from one another (factual inequality), are
> treated differently by the law, even though the factual difference between
> them does not justify different treatment in the  273 circumstances.”
> (Emphasis supplied) 272 HCJ 721/94.
273 El-A Israel Airlines, at para 14.
133 PART J The Supreme Court held that giving a benefit to an employee who has
a spouse of the opposite sex and denying the same benefit to an employee whose
spouse is of the same sex amounts to discrimination based on sexual
orientation. This violated the Petitioner’s right to equality and created an
unjustifiable distinction in the context of employee benefits. 117 In Vriend v
Alberta274, the appellant, a homosexual college employee, was terminated from
his job. He alleged that his employer had discriminated against him because of
his sexual orientation, but that he could not make a complaint under Canada’s
anti-discrimination statute – the Individual’s Rights Protection Act (“IRPA”)
– because it did not include sexual orientation as a protected ground. The
Supreme Court of Canada held that the omission of protection against
discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation was an unjustified violation
of the right to equality under the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms.
118 The Supreme Court held that the State had failed to provide a rational
justification for the omission of sexual orientation as a protected ground
under the IRPA. Commenting on the domino effect that such discriminatory
measures have on the lives of homosexuals, the Supreme Court noted thus: 274
(1998) 1 S.C.R. 493.
134 PART J “Perhaps most important is the psychological harm which may ensue
from this state of affairs. Fear of discrimination will logically lead to
concealment of true identity and this must be harmful to personal confidence
and self-esteem. Compounding that effect is the implicit message conveyed by
the exclusion, that gays and lesbians, unlike other individuals, are not
worthy of protection. This is clearly an example of a distinction which
demeans the individual and strengthens and perpetrates [sic] the view that
gays and lesbians are less worthy of protection as individuals in Canada’s
society. The potential harm to the dignity and perceived worth of gay and
lesbian individuals constitutes a particularly cruel form of discrimination.”
The next breakthrough for LGBTQ rights came from the Supreme Court of Nepal,
in Sunil Babu Pant v. Nepal Government275. Sunil Pant – the first openly gay
Asian national leader – filed a PIL before the Supreme Court of Nepal praying
for the recognition of the rights of lesbians, gays, and third gender persons.
The Supreme Court located the rights of LGBTQ persons to their sexuality
within the right to privacy, holding that:
“The right to privacy is a fundamental right of any individual.
The issue of sexual activity falls under the definition of privacy. No one has
the right to question how do two adults perform the sexual intercourse and
whether this intercourse is natural or unnatural.” The Court held that all
individuals have an inherent right to marriage, regardless of their sexual
orientation:
275 Writ Petition No. 917 of 2007. 135 PART J “Looking at the issue of same
sex marriage, we hold that it is an inherent right of an adult to have marital
relation with another adult with his/her free consent and according to her/his
will.” In concluding, the Court directed the Nepalese government to enact new
legislation or amend existing legislation to ensure that persons of all sexual
orientations and gender identities could enjoy equal rights. 119 In 2015, in
Oliari v Italy (“Oliari”)276, the Applicants before the ECtHR argued that the
absence of legislation in Italy permitting same-sex marriage or any other type
of civil union constituted discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation,
in violation of Articles 8, 12, and 14 of the European Convention on Human
Rights. In line with its previous case law, the Court affirmed that same-sex
couples “are in need of legal recognition and protection of their
relationship.”277 The ECtHR concluded that gay couples are equally capable of
entering into stable and committed relationships in the same way as
heterosexual couples.278 120 The ECtHR examined the domestic context in Italy,
and noted a clear gap between the “social reality of the applicants”,279 who
openly live their 276 [2015] ECHR 716 277 Oliari, at para 165.
278 Ibid.
279 Oliari, at para. 173.
136 PART J relationship, and the law, which fails to formally recognize same-
sex partnerships. The Court held that in the absence of any evidence of a
prevailing community interest in preventing legal recognition of same-sex
partnerships, Italian authorities “have overstepped their margin of
appreciation and failed to fulfil their positive obligation to ensure that the
applicants have available a specific legal framework providing for the
recognition and protection of their same-sex unions.”280 121 In 2013, in
United States v. Windsor281, US Supreme Court considered the constitutionality
of the Defense of Marriage Act (“DOMA”) which states that, for the purposes of
federal law, the words ‘marriage’ and ‘spouse’ refer to legal unions between
one man and one woman. Windsor, who had inherited the estate of her same-sex
partner, was barred from claiming the federal estate tax exemption for
surviving spouses since her marriage was not recognized by federal law.282
Justice Kennedy writing for the majority, held that restricting the federal
interpretation of ‘marriage’ and ‘spouse’ to apply only to opposite-sex unions
was unconstitutional under the Due Process Clause of the Fifth Amendment:
“Its [the DOMA’s] unusual deviation from the tradition of recognizing and
accepting state definitions of marriage 280 Oliari, at para 185.
281 570 U.S. 744 (2013).
282 Section 3, Defense of Marriage Act.
137 PART J operates to deprive same-sex couples of the benefits and
responsibilities that come with federal recognition of their marriages. This
is strong evidence of a law having the purpose and effect of disapproval of a
class recognized and protected by state law. DOMA’s avowed purpose and
practical effect are to impose a disadvantage, a separate status, and so a
stigma upon all who enter into same-sex marriages made lawful by the
unquestioned authority of the States.” Two years later, in Obergefell v.
Hodges (“Obergefell”),283 while analysing precedent and decisions of other US
courts recognizing same-sex marriage, Justice Kennedy observed that:
> “A first premise of the Court’s relevant precedents is that the right to
> personal choice regarding marriage is inherent in the concept of individual
> autonomy… Like choices concerning contraception, family relationships,
> procreation, and childrearing, all of which are protected by the
> Constitution, decisions concerning marriage are among the most intimate that
> an individual can make.”284 122 Justice Kennedy expressed the need to go
> beyond the narrow holding in Lawrence, towards a more expansive view of the
> rights of homosexuals:
> “Lawrence invalidated laws that made same- sex intimacy a criminal act...
> But while Lawrence confirmed a dimension of freedom that allows individuals
> to engage in intimate association without criminal liability, it does not
> follow that freedom stops there. Outlaw to outcast may be a step forward,
> but it does not achieve the full promise of liberty.” (Emphasis supplied)
> 283 576 U.S. ___ (2015).
> 284 Obergefell, at page 12.
138
PART J By a 5-4 majority, the US Supreme Court ruled that the fundamental
right to marry is guaranteed to same-sex couples by the Due Process Clause and
the Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment to the US
Constitution. Commenting on the right to marriage, Justice Kennedy noted:
> “No union is more profound than marriage, for it embodies the highest ideals
> of love, fidelity, devotion, sacrifice, and family. … It would misunderstand
> these men and women to say they disrespect the idea of marriage. Their plea
> is that they do respect it, respect it so deeply that they seek to find its
> fulfilment for themselves. Their hope is not to be condemned to live in
> loneliness, excluded from one of civilization’s oldest institutions. They
> ask for equal dignity in the eyes of the law.
The Constitution grants them that right.” 123 The recent case of Masterpiece
Cakeshop v. Colorado Civil Rights Commission (“Masterpiece Cakeshop”)285
concerned a Christian baker who was accused of violating an anti-
discrimination ordinance for refusing to make a wedding cake for a same-sex
couple based on his religious beliefs. The Colorado Civil Rights Commission
(“CCRC”) decided against the baker, and, on appeal, the Supreme Court ruled
7-2 that the CCRC violated the baker’s rights under the First Amendment, which
guarantees freedom of expression. Writing for the majority, Justice Kennedy
said the CCRC showed “hostility” to the baker’s religious beliefs:
285 584 U.S. ____ (2018).
139 PART J “It must be concluded that the State’s interest could have been
weighed against Phillips’ sincere religious objections in a way consistent
with the requisite religious neutrality that must be strictly observed. The
official expressions of hostility to religion in some of the commissioners’
comments— comments that were not disavowed at the Commission or by the State
at any point in the proceedings that led to affirmance of the order—were
inconsistent with what the Free Exercise Clause requires. The Commission’s
disparate consideration of Phillips’ case compared to the cases of the other
bakers suggests the same. For these reasons, the order must be set aside.” The
majority held that while the Constitution allows gay persons to exercise their
civil rights, “religious and philosophical objections to gay marriage are
protected views and in some instances protected forms of expression.” The
Supreme Court found merit in the baker’s First Amendment claim, noting that
his dilemma was understandable, especially given that the cause of action
arose in 2012, before the enactment of Colorado’s anti-discrimination law and
the Obergefell judgment that legalised same-sex marriage. The court buttressed
its position by noting that in several other cases, bakers had declined to
decorate cakes with messages that were derogatory towards gay persons and the
State Civil Rights Division had held that the bakers were within their rights
to have done so. According to the majority in Masterpiece Cakeshop, the owner
was similarly entitled to decline the order, and his case should have been
treated no differently.
140 PART J 124 Justice Ginsburg’s dissenting opinion, which was supported by
Justice Sotomayor, distinguished the baker in Masterpiece Cakeshop from the
other three bakers. Justice Ginsburg noted that while the other bakers would
have refused the said cake decorations to all customers, Phillips refused to
bake a wedding cake (which he baked for other customers), specifically for the
couple. She observed that:
> “Phillips declined to make a cake he found offensive where the offensiveness
> of the product was determined solely by the identity of the customer
> requesting it. The three other bakeries declined to make cakes where their
> objection to the product was due to the demeaning message the requested
> product would literally display.” (Emphasis supplied) “When a couple
> contacts a bakery for a wedding cake, the product they are seeking is a cake
> celebrating their wedding—not a cake celebrating heterosexual weddings or
> same-sex weddings—and that is the service Craig and Mullins were denied.”
> Justice Ginsburg concluded that a proper application of the Colorado Anti-
Discrimination Act would require upholding the lower courts’ rulings. 125
Masterpiece Cakeshop is also distinguishable from a similar case, Lee v.
Ashers Bakery Co. Ltd.286, which is currently on appeal to the United Kingdom
Supreme Court. In that case, a bakery in Northern Ireland offered a 286 [2015]
NICty 2.
141 PART J service whereby customers could provide messages, pictures or
graphics that would be iced on a cake. Lee – a member of an LGBT organisation
– ordered a cake with the words “support gay marriage” on it. The Christian
owners refused, stating that preparing such an order would conflict with their
religious beliefs. Lee claimed that in refusing his order, the bakery
discriminated against him on grounds of sexual orientation. Both the County
Court and the Court of Appeal ruled in favour of Lee, on the ground that the
respondent’s refusal on the ground of his religious beliefs was contrary to
the provisions of the Equality Act (Sexual Orientation) Regulations (Northern
Ireland) 2006 and the Fair Employment and Treatment Order 1998. From an
analysis of comparative jurisprudence from across the world, the following
principles emerge:
1\. Sexual orientation is an intrinsic element of liberty, dignity, privacy,
individual autonomy and equality;
2\. Intimacy between consenting adults of the same-sex is beyond the
legitimate interests of the state;
3\. Sodomy laws violate equality by targeting a segment of the population for
their sexual orientation;
142 PART J
4\. Such a law perpetrates stereotypes, lends authority of the state to
societal stereotypes and has a chilling effect on the exercise of freedom;
5\. The right to love and to a partner, to find fulfillment in a same-sex
relationship is essential to a society which believes in freedom under a
constitutional order based on rights;
6\. Sexual orientation implicates negative and positive obligations on the
state. It not only requires the state not to discriminate, but also calls for
the state to recognise rights which bring true fulfillment to same-sex
relationships; and
7\. The constitutional principles which have led to decriminalization must
continuously engage in a rights discourse to ensure that same-sex
relationships find true fulfillment in every facet of life. The law cannot
discriminate against same-sex relationships. It must also take positive steps
to achieve equal protection.
The past two decades have witnessed several decisions by constitutional and
international courts, recognizing both the decriminalization of same-sex
intercourse in private, as well as broader rights recognizing sexual
orientation equality. In 1996, South Africa became the first country in the
world to  143 PART J constitutionally prohibit discrimination based on sexual
orientation.287 As on the date of this judgment, ten countries
constitutionally prohibit discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation.288
The United Kingdom, Bolivia, Ecuador, Fiji, and Malta specifically prohibit
discrimination on the basis of gender identity, either constitutionally or
through enacted laws.289 According the International Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual,
Trans and Intersex Association, 74 countries (including India) criminalize
same-sex sexual conduct, as of 2017.290 Most of these countries lie in the
Sub-Saharan and Middle East region. Some of them prescribe death penalty for
homosexuality.291 126 We are aware that socio-historical contexts differ from
one jurisdiction to another and that we must therefore look at comparative
law-making allowances for them. However, the overwhelming weight of
international opinion and the dramatic increase in the pace of recognition of
fundamental rights for same-sex couples reflects a growing consensus towards
sexual orientation equality. We feel inclined to concur with the accumulated
wisdom reflected in these judgments, not to determine the meaning of the
guarantees 287 Amy Raub, “Protections Of Equal Rights Across Sexual
Orientation And Gender Identity: An Analysis Of 193 National Constitutions”,
Yale Journal of Law and Feminism, Vol. 28 (2017). 288 Ibid. Of these, three
are in the Americas (Bolivia, Ecuador, and Mexico), four are in Europe and
Central Asia (Malta, Portugal, Sweden, and the United Kingdom), two are in
East Asia and the Pacific (Fiji and New Zealand), and one is in Sub-Saharan
Africa (South Africa). 289 Ibid.
290 The International Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Trans And Intersex Association,
“Sexual Orientation Laws of the World”, (2017).
291 Ibid.
144 PART K contained within the Indian Constitution, but to provide a sound
and appreciable confirmation of our conclusions about those guarantees. This
evolution has enabled societies governed by liberal constitutional values –
such as liberty, dignity, privacy, equality and individual autonomy – to move
beyond decriminalisation of offences involving consensual same-sex
relationships. Decriminalisation is of course necessary to bury the ghosts of
morality which flourished in a radically different age and time. But
decriminalisation is a first step. The constitutional principles on which it
is based have application to a broader range of entitlements. The Indian
Constitution is based on an abiding faith in those constitutional values. In
the march of civilizations across the spectrum of a compassionate global
order, India cannot be left behind.
K Crime, morality and the Constitution 127 The question of what qualifies as a
punishable offence under the law has played a central role in legal theory.
Attempts have been made by legal scholars and jurists alike, to define a
crime. Halsbury’s Laws of England defines a crime as “an unlawful act or
default which is an offence against the  145 PART K public and renders the
person guilty of the act or default liable to legal punishment.”292 As
Glanville Williams observes:
> “A crime is an act capable of being followed by criminal proceedings, having
> a criminal outcome…criminal law is that branch of law which deals with
> conduct…by prosecution in the criminal courts.”293 Henry Hart, in his essay
> titled “The Aims of Criminal Law”, 294 comments on the difficulty of a
> definition in this branch of law. A crime is a crime because it is called a
> crime:
> “If one were to judge from the notions apparently underlying many judicial
> opinions, and the overt language even of some of them, the solution of the
> puzzle is simply that a crime is anything which is called a crime, and a
> criminal penalty is simply the penalty provided for doing anything which has
> been given that name.”295 However, Hart confesses that such a simplistic
> definition would be “a betrayal of intellectual bankruptcy.”296 Roscoe Pound
> articulates the dilemma in defining what constitutes an offence:
> “A final answer to the question ‘what is a crime?’, is impossible, because
> law is a living, changing thing, which may at one time be uniform, and at
> another time give much room for judicial discretion, which may at one time
> be more 292 Halsbury’s Laws of England. 3rd edition, Vol. 3, Butterworths
> (1953) at page. 271.
293 Glanville Williams, ‘The Definition of Crime’, Current Legal Problems,
Vol. 8 (1955). 294 Henry M. Hart, “The Aims of the Criminal Law”, Law and
Contemporary Problems, Vol. 23 (1958), at pages 401–
441\. 295 Ibid.
296 Ibid.
146 PART K specific in its prescription and at another time much more
general.”297 Early philosophers sought to define crime by distinguishing it
from a civil wrong. In his study of rhetoric, Aristotle observed that:
> “Justice in relation to the person is defined in two ways. For it is defined
> either in relation to the community or to one of its members what one should
> or should not do. Accordingly, it is possible to perform just and unjust
> acts in two ways, either towards a defined individual or towards the
> community.”298 Kant, in the Metaphysics of Morals,299 observed that:
> “A transgression of public law that makes someone who commits it unfit to be
> a citizen is called a crime simply (crimen) but is also called a public
> crime (crimen publicum);
> so the first (private crime) is brought before a civil court, the latter
> before a criminal court.”300 Another method of defining crime is from the
> nature of injury caused, “of being public, as opposed to private,
> wrongs.”301 This distinction was brought out by Blackstone and later by
> Duff, in their theories on criminal law. Blackstone, in his “Commentaries on
> the Laws of England” put forth the idea that only 297 Roscoe Pound,
> Interpretation of Legal History, Harvard University Press (1946).
298 H.C. Lawson-Tancred, The Art of Rhetoric/ Aristotle, Penguin (2004). 299
Immanuel Kant: The Metaphysics of Morals (Mary Gregor ed.), Cambridge
University Press (1996). 300 Ibid, at pages 353, 331.
301 Grant Lamond, “What is a Crime?”, Oxford Journal of Legal Studies, Vol.27
(2007).  147 PART K actions which constitute a ‘public wrong’ will be
classified as a crime.302 He characterised public wrongs as “a breach and
violation of the public rights and duties, due to the whole community,
considered as a community, in its social aggregate capacity.”303 Duff adds to
the idea of public wrong by arguing that “[w]e should interpret a ‘public’
wrong, not as a wrong that injures the public, but as one that properly
concerns the public, i.e. the polity as a whole.”304 Nozick and Becker also
support the theory that crime is conduct that harms the public. Nozick argues
that the harm caused by a crime, unlike other private law wrongs, extends
beyond the immediate victim to all those who view themselves as potential
victims of the crime.305 When such an act is done on purpose, it spreads fear
in the general community, and it is due to this additional harm to the
community [of causing fear and insecurity], that such actions are classified
as crimes and pursued by the state.306 Becker preferred to describe crime as
something which disrupts social stability and has “the potential for
destructive disturbance of fundamental social structures.”307 302 Sir William
Blackstone, Commentaries on the Laws of England, Book IV, Ch. 1 & 2\. 303
Ibid.
304 Antony Duff and Sandra Marshall, “Criminalization and Sharing Wrongs”,
Canadian Journal of Law and Jurisprudence, Vol. 11, (1998) at pages 7-22. 305
Robert Nozick, Anarchy, State and Utopia, Basic Books (1974) ,at page 65. 306
Supra note 301.
307 Lawrence C. Becker, “Criminal Attempts and the Theory of the Law of
Crimes”, Philosophy & Public Affairs, Vol 3 (1974), at page 273.
148 PART K However, Hart questioned the theory of simply defining crime as a
public wrong, for all wrongs affect society in some way or the other:
> “Can crimes be distinguished from civil wrongs on the ground that they
> constitute injuries to society generally which society is interested in
> preventing? The difficulty is that society is interested also in the due
> fulfilment of contracts and the avoidance of traffic accidents and most of
> the other stuff of civil litigation.” 308 128 Hart preferred to define crime
> in terms of the methodology of criminal law and the characteristics of this
> method. He described criminal law as possessing the following features:
> “1. The method operates by means of a series of directions, or commands,
> formulated in general terms, telling people what they must or must not do…
> 2\. The commands are taken as valid and binding upon all those who fall
> within their terms when the time comes for complying with them, whether or
> not they have been formulated in advance in a single authoritative set of
> words…
> 3\. The commands are subject to one or more sanctions for disobedience which
> the community is prepared to enforce…
> 4\. What distinguishes a criminal from a civil sanction and all that
> distinguishes it, it is ventured, is the judgment of community condemnation
> which accompanies and justifies its imposition.”309 (Numbering and emphasis
> supplied) 308 Supra note 294.
> 309 Ibid.
149
PART K According to Hart, the first three characteristics above are common to
both civil and criminal law.310 However, the key differentiating factor
between criminal and civil law, he observed, is the “community condemnation.”
311 Thus, he attempted to define crime as:
> “Conduct which, if duly shown to have taken place, will incur a formal and
> solemn pronouncement of the moral condemnation of the community.” 312
> Perhaps it is difficult to carve out a single definition of crime due to the
> multi-
dimensional nature of criminal law. The process of deconstructing the
criminalisation of consensual sexual acts by adults will be facilitated by
examining some criminal theories and their interplay with Section 377.
Criminal Law Theories Bentham’s Utilitarian Theory 129 Utilitarianism has
provided some of the most powerful critiques of existing laws. Bentham was one
of the earliest supporters for reform in sodomy laws. In his essay, “Offences
Against One’s Self”,313 Bentham rebutted all the justifications given by the
state for enacting laws on 310 Ibid.
311 Ibid.
312 Ibid.
313 Jeremy Bentham, “Offences Against One's Self” (Louis Crompton Ed.),
Columbia University.  150 PART K sodomy.314 According to Bentham,
homosexuality, if viewed outside the realms of morality and religion, is
neutral behaviour which gives the participants pleasure and does not cause
pain to anyone else. 315 Therefore, he concluded that such an act cannot
constitute an offence, and there is “no reason for punishing it at all.”316
130 Bentham tested sodomy laws on three main principles: (i) whether they
produce any primary mischief, i.e., direct harm to another person; (ii)
whether they produce any secondary mischief, i.e., harm to the stability and
security of society; and (iii) whether they cause any danger to society.317 He
argued that sodomy laws do not satisfy any of the above tests, and hence,
should be repealed. On the first principle of primary mischief, Bentham said:
> “As to any primary mischief, it is evident that it produces no pain in
> anyone. On the contrary it produces pleasure, and that a pleasure which, by
> their perverted taste, is by this supposition preferred to that pleasure
> which is in general reputed the greatest. The partners are both willing. If
> either of them be unwilling, the act is not that which we have here in view:
> it is an offence totally different in its nature of effects: it is a
> personal injury; it is a kind of rape.” 318 314 Ibid.
315 Ibid.
316 Ibid.
317 Ibid.
318 Ibid.
151 PART K Thus, Bentham argued that consensual homosexual acts do not harm
anyone else. Instead, they are a source of pleasure to adults who choose to
engage in them. Bentham was clear about the distinction between ‘willing’
partners and ‘unwilling’ partners, and the latter according to him, would not
fall under his defence.
Bentham’s second argument was that there was no secondary mischief, which he
described as something which may “produce any alarm in the community.” On
this, Bentham argued:
> “As to any secondary mischief, it produces not any pain of apprehension. For
> what is there in it for any body to be afraid of? By the supposition, those
> only are the objects of it who choose to be so, who find a pleasure, for so
> it seems they do, in being so.”319 Bentham’s explanation was that only those
> adults who choose will be the objects of homosexual sexual acts. It does not
> involve any activity which will create anxiety among the rest of the
> society. Therefore, homosexuality does not cause secondary harm either.
Lastly, Bentham tested sodomy laws on whether they cause danger to society.
The only danger that Bentham could apprehend was the supposed 319 Ibid.
152 PART K danger of encouraging others to engage in homosexual practices.
However, Bentham argues that since homosexual activities in themselves do not
cause any harm, there is no danger even if they have a domino effect on other
individuals:
> “As to any danger exclusive of pain, the danger, if any, must consist in the
> tendency of the example. But what is the tendency of this example? To
> dispose others to engage in the same practises: but this practise for
> anything that has yet appeared produces not pain of any kind to anyone.” 320
> Thus, according to Bentham, sodomy laws fail on all three grounds- they
> neither cause primary mischief, nor secondary mischief, nor any danger to
> society.
Bentham also critiqued criminal laws by analysing the utility of the
punishment prescribed by them. He succinctly described the objective of law
through the principles of utility- “The general object which all laws have, or
ought to have…is to augment the total happiness of the community; [and] to
exclude…everything that tends to subtract from that happiness.”321 According
to Bentham, “all punishment in itself is evil”322 because it reduces the level
of happiness in society, and should be prescribed only if it “excludes some
320 Ibid.
321 Ibid.
322 Ibid.
153 PART K greater evil.”323 Bentham stipulated four kinds of situations where
it is not utilitarian to inflict punishment:
> “1. Where it is groundless: where there is no mischief for it to prevent;
> the act not being mischievous upon the whole.
> 2\. Where it must be inefficacious: where it cannot act so as to prevent the
> mischief.
> 3\. Where it is unprofitable, or too expensive: where the mischief it would
> produce would be greater than what it prevented.
4\. Where it is needless: where the mischief may be prevented, or cease of
itself, without it: that is, at a cheaper rate.”324 The Harm Principle 131
John Stuart Mill, in his treatise “On Liberty,” makes a powerful case to
preclude governments from interfering in those areas of an individual’s life
which are private. Mill’s theory, which came to be called the “harm
principle”, suggests that the state can intrude into private life by way of
sanction only if harm is caused to others or if the conduct is “other-
affecting.”325 In Mill’s words:
> “The only purpose for which power can be rightfully exercised over any
> member of a civilised community, against his will, is to prevent harm to
> others. His own good, either physical or moral, is not a sufficient warrant.
> He cannot rightfully be compelled to do or forbear because it will be better
> for him to do so, because it will make him happier, because, in the 323
> Ibid.
324 Jeremy Bentham, An Introduction to the Principles of Morals and
Legislation, The Library of Economics and Liberty (1823).
325 John Stuart Mill, On Liberty, (Elizabeth Rapaport ed), Hackett Publishing
Co, Inc (1978).  154 PART K opinions of others, to do so would be wise, or
even right… The only part of the conduct of any one, for which he is amenable
to society, is that which concerns others. In the part which merely concerns
himself, his independence is, of right, absolute. Over himself, over his own
body and mind, the individual is sovereign.” 326 (Emphasis supplied) Mill
created a dichotomy between “self-regarding” actions (those which affect the
individual himself and have no significant effect on society at large) and
“other-regarding” actions (those which affect the society).327 He was aware
that in a way, all actions of an individual are likely to affect “those nearly
connected with him and, in a minor degree, society at large.”328 However, he
argued that as long as an action does not “violate a distinct and assignable
obligation to any other person or persons”, it may not be taken out of the
self- regarding class of actions.329 Thus, Mill proposed that “all that
portion of a person’s life and conduct which affects only himself, or, if it
also affects others, only with their free, voluntary, and undeceived consent
and participation” should be free from state interference.330 He further added
that the state and society are not justified in interfering in the self-
regarding sphere, merely because they believe certain conduct to be “foolish,
perverse, or wrong.”331 326 Ibid.
327 Ibid.
328 Ibid.
329 Ibid.
330 Ibid.
331 Ibid.
155 PART K Essentially, Mill created a taxonomy on types of conduct – (a)
self-regarding actions should not be the subject of sanctions either from the
state or society;
(b) actions which may hurt others but do not violate any legal rights may only
be the subject of public condemnation but not state sanction; (c) only action
which violate the legal rights of others should be the subject of legal
sanction (and public condemnation).332 The harm principle thus, operated as a
negative or limiting principle, with the main objective of restricting
criminal law from penalising conduct merely on the basis of its perceived
immorality or unacceptability when the same is not harmful.333 While Mill’s
theory was not propounded in relation to LGBTQ rights, his understanding of
criminal law is well-suited to argue that sodomy laws criminalise ‘self-
regarding’ actions which fall under the first category of conduct, and should
not be subjected to sanctions either by the state or the society.
132 A jurisprudential debate on the interplay between criminal law and
morality was set off when Lord Devlin delivered the 1959 Maccabean Lecture,
332 Mark Strasser, “Lawrence, Mill, and Same Sex Relationships: On Values,
Valuing and the Constitution”, Southern California Interdisciplinary Law
Journal, Vol. 15 (2006). 333 Joseph Raz, ‘Autonomy, Toleration and the Harm
Principle’, in Issues in Contemporary Legal Philosophy: The Influence of HLA
Hart (R. Gavison ed.), Oxford University Press (1987).  156 PART K titled “The
Enforcement of Morals.”334 Lord Devlin’s lecture was an attack against the
Report of the Wolfenden Committee on Homosexual Offences and Prostitution
(“Wolfenden Report”), which had recommended the decriminalisation of sodomy
laws in England.335 The Wolfenden Committee, headed by Sir John Wolfenden,
Vice-Chancellor of Reading University, was set up in 1954 to consider the
criminalisation of homosexuality and prostitution, in the wake of increased
arrests and convictions in the UK for homosexuality between men.336 Among
those prosecuted for ‘gross indecency’ under the Buggery Act of 1553 and
Sexual Offences Act of 1967 were eminent persons like Oscar Wilde, Alan Turing
and Lord Montagu of Beaulieu.337 After conducting a three-year long inquiry,
carrying out empirical research, and interviewing three gay men, the Wolfenden
Committee released its Report in 1957.338 The Wolfenden Report recommended
that:
> “Homosexual behaviour between consenting adults should no longer be a
> criminal offence... Unless a deliberate attempt is to be made by society,
> acting through the agency of the law, to equate the sphere of crime with
> that of sin, there must remain a realm of private morality and immorality
> which is, in brief and crude terms, not the law’s business.”339 334 Graham
> Hughes, “Morals and the Criminal Law”, The Yale Law Journal, Vol.71 (1962).
335 Supra note 29.
336 Ibid.
337 Ibid.
338 Ibid.
339 Supra note 29, at paras 61 and 62.
157 PART K The Wolfenden Report stated that “it is not the purpose of law to
intervene in the private lives of citizens, or to seek to enforce any
particular pattern of behaviour…”340 The Wolfenden Report acknowledged that
the law and public opinion have a close relationship with each other – the law
ought to “follow behind public opinion” so that it garners the community
support, while at the same time, the law must also fortify and lead public
opinion.341 However, it made out a strong case for divorcing morality from
criminal law and stated that
\- “moral conviction or instinctive feeling, however strong, is not a valid
basis for overriding the individual’s privacy and for bringing within the
ambit of the criminal law private sexual behaviour of this kind.”342 Stating
that homosexuality is not a mental illness, the Wolfenden Report clarified
that homosexuality is “a sexual propensity for persons of one’s own sex…[it]
is a state or condition, and as such does not, and cannot, come within the
purview of criminal law.”343 133 Lord Devlin, perturbed by the Wolfenden
Report’s line of reasoning, framed questions on the issue of criminal law and
morality:
“1. Has society the right to pass judgments on all matters of morals?
340 Ibid, at para 14.
341 Ibid, at para 16.
342 Ibid, at para 54.
343 Ibid, at para 18.
158 PART K
2\. If society has the right to pass judgment, has it also the right to use
the weapon of the law to enforce it?”344 Devlin believed that society depends
upon a common morality for its stability and existence.345 On the basis of
this belief, Devlin answered the above questions in the affirmative, stating
that – society has the right to pass judgments on all matters of morality and
also the right to use law to enforce such morality.346 Devlin reasoned that
society would disintegrate if a common morality was not observed. Therefore,
society is justified in taking steps to preserve its morality as much as it
preserves the government.347 Devlin proposed that the common morality or
“collective judgment of the society” should be ascertained taking into
consideration the “reasonable man.”348 According to him, a reasonable man is
an ordinary man whose judgment “may largely be a matter of feeling.”349 He
added that if the reasonable man believed a practice to be immoral, and held
this belief honestly and dispassionately, then for the purpose of law such
practice should be considered immoral.350 344 Sir Patrick Arthur Devlin, “The
Enforcement Of Morals” Oxford University Press (1959) at page 9. 345 Supra
note 334, at page 662.
346 Animesh Sharma, “Section 377: No Jurisprudential Basis.” Economic and
Political Weekly, Vol. 43 (2008) at pages 12-14.
347 Supra note 344.
348 Ibid.
349 Ibid.
350 Ibid.
159 PART K 134 Countering Devlin’s theory, Hart argued that society is not
held together by a common morality, for, after all, it is not a hive mind or a
monolith, governed by a singular set of morals and principles.351 Hart
rebutted Devlin’s argument in the following way:
> “…apart from one vague reference to ‘history’ showing the ‘the loosening of
> moral bonds is often the first stage of disintegration,’ no evidence is
> produced to show that deviation from accepted sexual morality, even by
> adults in private is something which, like treason, threatens the existence
> of society. No reputable historian has maintained this thesis, and there is
> indeed much evidence against it…Lord Devlin’s belief in it [that
> homosexuality is a cause of societal disintegration], and his apparent
> indifference to the question of evidence, are at points traceable to an
> undiscussed assumption. This is that all morality – sexual morality together
> with the morality that forbids acts injurious to others such as killing,
> stealing, and dishonesty -- forms a single seamless web, so that those who
> deviate from any part are likely to perhaps bound to deviate from the whole.
> It is of course clear (and one of the oldest insights of political theory)
> that society could not exist without a morality which mirrored and
> supplemented the law’s proscription of conduct injurious to others. But
> there is again no evidence to support, and much to refute, the theory that
> those who deviate from conventional sexual morality are in other ways
> hostile to society.”352 Despite countering Devlin, Hart was not completely
> opposed to a relationship between law and morality, and in fact, he
> emphasised that the two are closely related:
351 Supra note 346, at pages 12-14.
352 Hart, H. L. A, “The Changing Sense of Morality” In Political Thought
(Michael Rosen and Jonathan Wolff eds.), Oxford University Press (1999) at
pages 140-141.  160 PART K “The law of every modem state shows at a thousand
points the influence of both the accepted social morality and wider moral
ideals. These influences enter into law either abruptly and avowedly through
legislation, or silently and piecemeal through the judicial process…The
further ways in which law mirrors morality are myriad, and still
insufficiently studied: statutes may be a mere legal shell and demand by their
express terms to be filled out with the aid of moral principles; the range of
enforceable contracts may be limited by reference to conceptions of morality
and fair- ness; liability for both civil and criminal wrongs may be adjusted
to prevailing views of moral responsibility.” 353 However, unlike Devlin, Hart
did not propose that morality is a necessary condition for the validity of
law.354 Hart argued, in summary, that “law is morally relevant,” but “not
morally conclusive.”355 Hart vehemently disagreed with Devlin's view that if
laws are not based on some collective morality and enacted to buttress that
morality, society will disintegrate.356 Hart draws this distinction by
conceding that certain sexual acts (including homosexual acts) were considered
‘immoral’ by mainstream Western society but adding that private sexual acts
are an issue of “private morality” over which society has no interest and the
law, no control.357 Hart further expounded his warning about the imposition of
majoritarian morals, propounding that “[l]t is fatally easy to confuse the
democratic 353 H.L.A. Hart, Law, Liberty And Morality (1979). 354 William
Starr, “Law and Morality in H.L.A. Hart’s Legal Philosophy”, Marquette Law
Review, Vol. 67 (1984). 355 Ibid.
356 Supra note 352.
357 Peter August Bittlinger, “Government enforcement of morality: a critical
analysis of the Devlin-Hart controversy”, Doctoral Dissertations 1896-February
2014 (1975) at pages 69-70.  161 PART K principle that power should be in the
hands of the majority with the utterly different claim that the majority, with
power in their hands, need respect no limits”358:
> “Whatever other arguments there may be for the enforcement of morality, no
> one should think even when popular morality is supported by an “overwhelming
> majority” or marked by widespread "intolerance, indignation, and disgust"
> that loyalty to democratic principles requires him to admit that its
> imposition on a minority is justified.”359 In this way, Hart avoided the
> specious generalization that the law must be severely quarantined from
> morality but still made it clear that laws like Section 377, which impose a
> majoritarian view of right and wrong upon a minority in order to protect
> societal cohesion, are jurisprudentially and democratically impermissible.
Bentham had a different view on morality and weighed morality against
utilitarian principles. Bentham argued that if the punishment is not
utilitarian (i.e. does not serve as a deterrent, is unprofitable, or
unnecessary), the ‘immoral’ action would have to go unpunished.360 He opined
that legislators should not be overly swayed by the society’s morality: 358
Ibid at page 91.
359 Ibid at page 93.
360 Supra note 334.
162 PART K “The strength of their prejudice is the measure of the indulgence
which should be granted to it…The legislator ought to yield to the violence of
a current which carries away everything that obstructs it.
But ought the legislator to be a slave to the fancies of those whom he
governs? No. Between an imprudent opposition and a servile compliance, there
is a middle path, honourable and safe.”361 In other words, it appears that
Bentham argued that the morality of the people ought not be ignored in
creating laws but also must not become their unchecked fount. And if
prejudicial moralities arise from the people, they should not be unthinkingly
and permanently cemented into the law, but rather addressed and conquered.
John Stuart Mill also made a strong argument against popular morality being
codified into laws. He argued that ‘disgust’ cannot be classified as harm, and
those “who consider as an injury to themselves any conduct which they have a
distaste for”, cannot dictate the actions of others merely because such
actions contradict their own beliefs or views.362 Mill believed that society
is not the right judge when dealing with the question of when to interfere in
conduct 361 Ibid.
362 Supra note 325.
163 PART K that is purely personal, and that when society does interfere, “the
odds are that it interferes wrongly and in the wrong place.”363 135
Christopher R Leslie points out the dangers of letting morality creep into
law:
> “Current generations enshrine their morality by passing laws and perpetuate
> their prejudices by handing these laws down to their children. Soon,
> statutes take on lives of their own, and their very existence justifies
> their premises and consequent implications. The underlying premises of
> ancient laws are rarely discussed, let alone scrutinized.”364 Leslie further
> adds that “sodomy laws do not merely express societal disapproval; they go
> much further by creating a criminal class”365:
> “Sodomy laws are kept on the books, even though state governments do not
> intend to actively enforce them, because the laws send a message to society
> that homosexuality is unacceptable. Even without actual criminal
> prosecution, the laws carry meaning… In short, the primary importance of
> sodomy laws today is the government’s message to diminish the societal
> status of gay men and lesbians.”366 136 A broad analysis of criminal theory
> points to the general conclusion that criminologists and legal philosophers
> have long been in agreement about one basic characteristic of crime: that it
> should injure a third person or the society.
> 363 Ibid.
364 Christopher. R. Leslie, “Creating criminals: The Injuries Inflicted by
“Unenforced” Sodomy Laws”, Harvard Civil Rights and Civil Liberties Law
Review, Vol. 35 (2000). 365 Ibid, at pages 103-181.
366 Ibid.
164 PART K An element of larger public interest emerges as the crux of crime.
The conduct which Section 377 criminalises voluntary ‘carnal intercourse
against the order of nature’ with a man or woman, inter alia – pertains solely
to acts between consenting adults. Such conduct is purely private, or as Mill
would call it, “self-regarding,” and is neither capable of causing injury to
someone else nor does it pose a threat to the stability and security of
society. Once the factor of consent is established, the question of such
conduct causing any injury, does not arise.
Although Section 377 prima facie appears to criminalise certain acts or
conduct, it creates a class of criminals, consisting of individuals who engage
in consensual sexual activity. It typecasts LGBTQ individuals as sex-
offenders, categorising their consensual conduct on par with sexual offences
like rape and child molestation. Section 377 not only criminalises acts
(consensual sexual conduct between adults) which should not constitute crime,
but also stigmatises and condemns LGBTQ individuals in society. 137 We are
aware of the perils of allowing morality to dictate the terms of criminal law.
If a single, homogenous morality is carved out for a society, it will
undoubtedly have the effect of hegemonizing or ‘othering’ the morality of
minorities. The LGBTQ community has been a victim of the pre-dominant  165
PART L (Victorian) morality which prevailed at the time when the Indian Penal
Code was drafted and enacted. Therefore, we are inclined to observe that it is
constitutional morality, and not mainstream views about sexual morality, which
should be the driving factor in determining the validity of Section 377.
L Constitutional morality 138 With the attainment of independence on 15 August
1947, Indians were finally free to shape their own destiny.367 The destiny was
to be shaped through a written Constitution. Constitutions are scripts in
which people inscribe the text of their professed collective destiny. They
write down who they think they are, what they want to be, and the principles
that will guide their interacting along that path in the future.368 The
Constitution of India was burdened with the challenge of “drawing a curtain on
the past”369 of social inequality and prejudices. Those who led India to
freedom established into the Constitution the ideals and vision of a vibrant
equitable society. The framing of India’s Constitution was a medium of
liberating the society by initiating the process of establishing and promoting
the shared values of liberty, equality 367 Jawaharlal Nehru, “Tryst with
Destiny”, address to the Constituent Assembly of India, delivered on 14-15
August 1947\.
368 Uday S. Mehta, “Constitutionalism”, In The Oxford Companion to Politics in
India (Niraja Gopal Jayal and Pratap Bhanu Mehta eds.), Oxford University
Press (2010), at page 15. 369 Ibid, at page 16.
166 PART L and fraternity. Throughout history, socio-cultural revolts, anti-
discrimination assertions, movements, literature and leaders have worked at
socializing people away from supremacist thought and towards an egalitarian
existence. The Indian Constitution is an expression of these assertions. It
was an attempt to reverse the socializing of prejudice, discrimination, and
power hegemony in a disjointed society. All citizens were to be free from
coercion or restriction by the state, or by society privately.370 Liberty was
no longer to remain the privilege of the few. The judgment in Puttaswamy
highlights the commitment of the constitution makers, thus:
> “The vision of the founding fathers was enriched by the histories of
> suffering of those who suffered oppression and a violation of dignity both
> here and elsewhere.” 139 Understanding the vision of India at a time when
> there was little else older than that vision, is of paramount importance for
> the reason that though the people may not have played any role in the actual
> framing of the Constitution, the Preamble professes that the Constitution
> has been adopted by the people themselves. Constitutional historian
> Granville Austin has said that the Indian Constitution is essentially a
> social document.371 The Indian Constitution does not provide merely a
> framework of governance. It embodies a vision. It is goal-oriented and its
> purpose is to bring about a social 370 Granville Austin, The Indian
> Constitution: Cornerstone of a Nation, Oxford University Press (1966), at
> page 65.
371 Ibid, at page 63.
167 PART L transformation in the country. It represents the aspirations of its
framers. The democratic Constitution of India embodies provisions which are
value-based. 140 During the framing of the Constitution, it was realized by
the members of the Constituent Assembly that there was a wide gap between
constitutional precept and reality. The draftspersons were clear that the
imbibing of new constitutional values by the population at large would take
some time. Society was not going to change overnight. Dr Ambedkar remarked in
the Constituent Assembly:
“Democracy in India is only a top-dressing on an Indian soil, which is
essentially undemocratic.” 141 The values of a democracy require years of
practice, effort, and experience to make the society work with those values.
Similar is the position of non-discrimination, equality, fraternity and
secularism. While the Constitution guarantees equality before the law and
equal protection of the law, it was felt that the realization of the
constitutional vision requires the existence of a commitment to that vision.
Dr Ambedkar described this commitment to be the presence of constitutional
morality among the members of the society. The conception of constitutional
morality is different from that of public or societal morality. Under a regime
of public morality, the conduct of  168 PART L society is determined by
popular perceptions existent in society. The continuance of certain symbols,
labels, names or body shapes determine the notions, sentiments and mental
attitudes of the people towards individuals and things.372 Constitutional
morality determines the mental attitude towards individuals and issues by the
text and spirit of the Constitution. It requires that the rights of an
individual ought not to be prejudiced by popular notions of society. It
assumes that citizens would respect the vision of the framers of the
Constitution and would conduct themselves in a way which furthers that vision.
Constitutional morality reflects that the ideal of justice is an overriding
factor in the struggle for existence over any other notion of social
acceptance. It builds and protects the foundations of a democracy, without
which any nation will crack under its fissures. For this reason,
constitutional morality has to be imbibed by the citizens consistently and
continuously. Society must always bear in mind what Dr Ambedkar observed
before the Constituent Assembly:
> “Constitutional morality is not a natural sentiment. It has to be
> cultivated. We must realize that our people have yet to learn it.” 372
> Babasaheb.R. Ambedkar, Annihilation of Caste, Navayana Publishing (2014);
> See also Martha C. Nussbaum, “Disgust or Equality? Sexual Orientation and
> Indian Law”, Journal of Indian Law and Society, Vol. 6 (2010).
169
PART L 142 In the decision in Government of NCT of Delhi v. Union of India373,
the Constitution Bench of this Court dealt with the constitutive elements of
constitutional morality which govern the working of a democratic system and
representative form of government. Constitutional morality was described as
founded on a “constitutional culture”, which requires the “existence of
sentiments and dedication for realizing a social transformation which the
Indian Constitution seeks to attain.” This Court held thus:
> “If the moral values of our .Constitution were not upheld at every stage,
> the text of the Constitution may not be enough to protect its democratic
> values.” This Court held that constitutional morality acts a check against
> the “tyranny of the majority” and as a “threshold against an upsurge in mob
> rule.” It was held to be a balance against popular public morality.
143 Constitutional morality requires in a democracy the assurance of certain
minimum rights, which are essential for free existence to every member of
society. The Preamble to the Constitution recognises these rights as “Liberty
of thought, expression, belief, faith and worship” and “Equality of status and
of opportunity.” Constitutional morality is the guarantee which seeks that all
inequality is eliminated from the social structure and each individual is 373
2018 (8) SCALE 72  170 PART L assured of the means for the enforcement of the
rights guaranteed. Constitutional morality leans towards making Indian
democracy vibrant by infusing a spirit of brotherhood amongst a heterogeneous
population, belonging to different classes, races, religions, cultures, castes
and sections. Constitutional morality cannot, however, be nurtured unless, as
recognised by the Preamble, there exists fraternity, which assures and
maintains the dignity of each individual. In his famous, yet undelivered
speech titled “Annihilation of Caste” (which has been later published as a
book), Dr Ambedkar described ‘fraternity’ as “primarily a mode of associated
living, of conjoint communicated experience” and “essentially an attitude of
respect and reverence towards fellow men.”374 He remarked:
> “An ideal society should be mobile, should be full of channels for conveying
> a change taking place in one part to other parts.
In an ideal society there should be many interests consciously communicated
and shared. There should be varied and free points of contact with other modes
of association. In other words there must be social endosmosis. This is
fraternity, which is only another name for democracy.” In his last address to
the Constituent Assembly, he defined fraternity as “a sense of common
brotherhood of all Indians.” As on the social and economic plane, Indian
society was based on graded inequality, Dr Ambedkar had warned in clear terms:
“Without fraternity, liberty [and] equality could not become a natural course
of things. It would require a constable to 374 Supra note 372, at para 14.2.
171 PART L enforce them… Without fraternity equality and liberty will be no
deeper than coats of paint.”375 144 Constitutional morality requires that all
the citizens need to have a closer look at, understand and imbibe the broad
values of the Constitution, which are based on liberty, equality and
fraternity. Constitutional morality is thus the guiding spirit to achieve the
transformation which, above all, the Constitution seeks to achieve. This
acknowledgement carries a necessary implication: the process through which a
society matures and imbibes constitutional morality is gradual, perhaps
interminably so. Hence, constitutional courts are entrusted with the duty to
act as external facilitators and to be a vigilant safeguard against excesses
of state power and democratic concentration of power. This Court, being the
highest constitutional court, has the responsibility to monitor the
preservation of constitutional morality as an incident of fostering conditions
for human dignity and liberty to flourish. Popular public morality cannot
affect the decisions of this Court. Lord Neuberger (of the UK Supreme Court)
has aptly observed:
> “[W]e must always remember that Parliament has democratic legitimacy – but
> that has disadvantages as well as advantages. The need to offer oneself for
> re-election sometimes makes it hard to make unpopular, but correct,
> decisions. At times it can be an advantage to have an 375 Constituent
> Assembly Debates (25 November 1949).
172
PART L independent body of people who do not have to worry about short term
popularity.”376 The flourishing of a constitutional order requires not only
the institutional leadership of constitutional courts, but also the responsive
participation of the citizenry.377 Constitutional morality is a pursuit of
this responsive participation. The Supreme Court cannot afford to denude
itself of its leadership as an institution in expounding constitutional
values. Any loss of its authority will imperil democracy itself.
145 The question of morality has been central to the concerns around
homosexuality and the rights of LGBT individuals. Opponents – including those
of the intervenors who launched a diatribe in the course of hearing – claim
that homosexuality is against popular culture and is thus unacceptable in
Indian society. While dealing with the constitutionality of Section 377 of the
Indian Penal Code, the Delhi High Court in Naz Foundation had held:
> “Thus popular morality or public disapproval of certain acts is not a valid
> justification for restriction of the fundamental rights under Article 21.
> Popular morality, as distinct from a constitutional morality derived from
> constitutional values, is based on shifting and subjecting notions of right
> and wrong. If there is any type of “morality” that can pass the test of
> compelling state interest, it must be “constitutional” morality 376 Lord
> Neuberger, “UK Supreme Court decisions on private and commercial law: The
> role of public policy and public interest”, Centre for Commercial Law
> Studies Conference (2015).
377 Marc Galanter, “Fifty Years on”, in BN Kirpal et al, Supreme but Not
Infallible: Essays in Honour of the Supreme Court of India, Oxford University
Press (2000), at page 57.  173 PART L and not public morality… In our scheme
of things, constitutional morality must outweigh the argument of public
morality, even if it be the majoritarian view.” The invocation of
constitutional morality must be seen as an extension of Dr Ambedkar’s
formulation of social reform and constitutional transformation. Highlighting
the significance of individual rights in social transformation, he had
observed:
> “The assertion by the individual of his own opinions and beliefs, his own
> independence and interest—over and against group standards, group authority,
> and group interests—is the beginning of all reform. But whether the reform
> will continue depends upon what scope the group affords for such individual
> assertion.”378 After the enactment of the Constitution, every individual
> assertion of rights is to be governed by the principles of the Constitution,
> by its text and spirit. The Constitution assures to every individual the
> right to lead a dignified life. It prohibits discrimination within society.
> It is for this reason that constitutional morality requires this court to
> issue a declaration - which we now do - that LGBT individuals are equal
> citizens of India, that they cannot be discriminated against and that they
> have a right to express themselves through their intimate choices. In
> upholding constitutional morality, we affirm that the protection of the
> rights of LGBT individuals are not only about guaranteeing a 378 Supra note
> 373, at para 12.1.
174
PART L minority their rightful place in the constitutional scheme, but that we
equally speak of the vision of the kind of country we want to live in and of
what it means for the majority.379 The nine-judge Bench of this Court in
Puttaswamy had held in clear terms that discrimination against an individual
on the basis of sexual orientation is deeply offensive to the dignity and
self-worth of the individual. The Bench held:
> “The purpose of elevating certain rights to the stature of guaranteed
> fundamental rights is to insulate their exercise from the disdain of
> majorities, whether legislative or popular.
The guarantee of constitutional rights does not depend upon their exercise
being favourably regarded by majoritarian opinion. The test of popular
acceptance does not furnish a valid basis to disregard rights which are
conferred with the sanctity of constitutional protection. Discrete and insular
minorities face grave dangers of discrimination for the simple reason that
their views, beliefs or way of life does not accord with the ‘mainstream’. Yet
in a democratic Constitution founded on the rule of law, their rights are as
sacred as those conferred on other citizens to protect their freedoms and
liberties.” Constitutional morality will impact upon any law which deprives
the LGBT individuals of their entitlement to a full and equal citizenship.
After the Constitution came into force, no law can be divorced from
constitutional morality. Society cannot dictate the expression of sexuality
between consenting adults. That is a private affair. Constitutional morality
will 379 Supra note 41.
175 PART M supersede any culture or tradition.
The interpretation of a right in a matter of decriminalisation and beyond must
be determined by the norms of the Constitution. 146 LGBT individuals living
under the threats of conformity grounded in cultural morality have been denied
a basic human existence. They have been stereotyped and prejudiced.
Constitutional morality requires this Court not to turn a blind eye to their
right to an equal participation of citizenship and an equal enjoyment of
living. Constitutional morality requires that this Court must act as a counter
majoritarian institution which discharges the responsibility of protecting
constitutionally entrenched rights, regardless of what the majority may
believe.380 Constitutional morality must turn into a habit of citizens. By
respecting the dignity of LGBT individuals, this Court is only fulfilling the
foundational promises of our Constitution.
M In summation : transformative constitutionalism 147 This case has required a
decision on whether Section 377 of the Penal Code fulfills constitutional
standards in penalising consensual sexual conduct between adults of the same
sex. We hold and declare that in penalising such 380 Ibid.
176 PART M sexual conduct, the statutory provision violates the constitutional
guarantees of liberty and equality. It denudes members of the LGBT communities
of their constitutional right to lead fulfilling lives. In its application to
adults of the same sex engaged in consensual sexual behaviour, it violates the
constitutional guarantee of the right to life and to the equal protection of
law. 148 Sexual orientation is integral to the identity of the members of the
LGBT communities. It is intrinsic to their dignity, inseparable from their
autonomy and at the heart of their privacy. Section 377 is founded on moral
notions which are an anathema to a constitutional order in which liberty must
trump over stereotypes and prevail over the mainstreaming of culture. Our
Constitution, above all, is an essay in the acceptance of diversity. It is
founded on a vision of an inclusive society which accommodates plural ways of
life. 149 The impact of Section 377 has travelled far beyond criminalising
certain acts. The presence of the provision on the statute book has reinforced
stereotypes about sexual orientation. It has lent the authority of the state
to the suppression of identities. The fear of persecution has led to the
closeting of same sex relationships. A penal provision has reinforced societal
disdain.  177 PART M 150 Sexual and gender based minorities cannot live in
fear, if the Constitution has to have meaning for them on even terms. In its
quest for equality and the equal protection of the law, the Constitution
guarantees to them an equal citizenship. In de-criminalising such conduct, the
values of the Constitution assure to the LGBT community the ability to lead a
life of freedom from fear and to find fulfilment in intimate choices. 151 The
choice of a partner, the desire for personal intimacy and the yearning to find
love and fulfilment in human relationships have a universal appeal, straddling
age and time. In protecting consensual intimacies, the Constitution adopts a
simple principle: the state has no business to intrude into these personal
matters. Nor can societal notions of heteronormativity regulate constitutional
liberties based on sexual orientation. 152 This reference to the Constitution
Bench is about the validity of Section 377 in its application to consensual
sexual conduct between adults of the same sex. The constitutional principles
which we have invoked to determine the outcome address the origins of the
rights claimed and the source of their protection. In their range and content,
those principles address issues broader than the acts which the statute
penalises. Resilient and universal as they are, these constitutional values
must enure with a mark of permanence.  178 PART M 153 Above all, this case has
had great deal to say on the dialogue about the transformative power of the
Constitution. In addressing LGBT rights, the Constitution speaks – as well –
to the rest of society. In recognising the rights of the LGBT community, the
Constitution asserts itself as a text for governance which promotes true
equality. It does so by questioning prevailing notions about the dominance of
sexes and genders. In its transformational role, the Constitution directs our
attention to resolving the polarities of sex and binarities of gender. In
dealing with these issues we confront much that polarises our society. Our
ability to survive as a free society will depend upon whether constitutional
values can prevail over the impulses of the time. 154 A hundred and fifty
eight years is too long a period for the LGBT community to suffer the
indignities of denial. That it has taken sixty eight years even after the
advent of the Constitution is a sobering reminder of the unfinished task which
lies ahead. It is also a time to invoke the transformative power of the
Constitution.
155 The ability of a society to acknowledge the injustices which it has
perpetuated is a mark of its evolution. In the process of remedying wrongs
under a regime of constitutional remedies, recrimination gives way to
restitution, diatribes pave the way for dialogue and healing replaces the hate
179 PART M of a community. For those who have been oppressed, justice under a
regime committed to human freedom, has the power to transform lives. In
addressing the causes of oppression and injustice, society transforms itself.
The Constitution has within it the ability to produce a social catharsis. The
importance of this case lies in telling us that reverberations of how we
address social conflict in our times will travel far beyond the narrow alleys
in which they are explored.
156 We hold and declare that:
(i) Section 377 of the Penal Code, in so far as it criminalises consensual
sexual conduct between adults of the same sex, is unconstitutional;
(ii) Members of the LGBT community are entitled, as all other citizens, to the
full range of constitutional rights including the liberties protected by the
Constitution;
(iii) The choice of whom to partner, the ability to find fulfilment in sexual
intimacies and the right not to be subjected to discriminatory behaviour are
intrinsic to the constitutional protection of sexual orientation;
(iv) Members of the LGBT community are entitled to the benefit of an equal
citizenship, without discrimination, and to the equal protection of law; and
180 PART M
(v) The decision in Koushal stands overruled. Acknowledgment Before
concluding, I acknowledge the efforts of counsel for the petitioners and
intervenors who appeared in this case – Mr Mukul Rohatgi, Mr Arvind Datar, Mr
Ashok Desai, Mr Anand Grover, Mr Shyam Divan, Mr CU Singh and Mr Krishnan
Venugopal, Senior Counsel; and Mr Saurabh Kirpal, Dr Menaka Guruswamy and Ms
Arundhati Katju, and Ms Jayna Kothari, learned Counsel. Their erudition has
enabled us to absorb, as we reflected and wrote. Mr Tushar Mehta, learned
Additional Solicitor General appeared for the Union of India. We acknowledge
the assistance rendered by the counsel for the intervenors who opposed the
petitioners.
…….....….............................................J [Dr Dhananjaya Y
Chandrachud] New Delhi;
September 06, 2018.
                                          181
                                                    REPORTABLE
                 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF INDIA
                 CRIMINAL ORIGINAL JURISDICTION
                WRIT PETITION (CRL.) NO. 76 OF 2016
    Navtej Singh Johar and Others                     …Petitioners
                                 VERSUS
    Union of India Ministry of Law
    and Justice Secretary                            …Respondent
                                 WITH
                         W.P. (C) NO. 572/2016
                       W.P. (CRL.) NO. 88/2018
                       W.P. (CRL.) NO. 100/2018
                       W.P. (CRL.) NO. 101/2018
                       W.P. (CRL.) NO. 121/2018
                            JUDGEMENT
    INDU MALHOTRA, J.
1\. I have had the advantage of reading the opinions prepared by the Hon’ble
Chief Justice, and my brother Judges Justice  1 Nariman and Justice
Chandrachud. The Judgments have dealt in-depth with the various issues that
are required to be examined by this Bench, to answer the reference.
2\. The present batch of Writ Petitions have been filed to challenge the
constitutional validity of Section 377 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 (“IPC”)
on the specific ground that it criminalises consensual sexual intercourse
between adult persons belonging to the same sex in private.
3\. The issue as to whether the decision in Suresh Kumar Koushal & Anr. v. Naz
Foundation & Ors.1 requires re-consideration was referred to the Constitution
Bench vide Order dated 8th January, 2018.
4\. The Petitioners have inter alia submitted that sexual expression and
intimacy between consenting adults of the same sex in private ought to receive
protection under Part III of the Constitution, as sexuality lies at the core
of a human being’s innate identity. Section 377 inasmuch as it criminalises
consensual relationships between same sex couples is violative of the
fundamental rights guaranteed by Articles 21, 19 and 14, in Part III of the
Constitution. 1 (2014) 1 SCC 1  2 The principal contentions raised by the
Petitioners during the course of hearing are:
i. Fundamental rights are available to LGBT persons regardless of the fact
that they constitute a minority. ii. Section 377 is violative of Article 14
being wholly arbitrary, vague, and has an unlawful objective. iii. Section 377
penalises a person on the basis of their sexual orientation, and is hence
discriminatory under Article 15.
iv. Section 377 violates the right to life and liberty guaranteed by Article
21 which encompasses all aspects of the right to live with dignity, the right
to privacy, and the right to autonomy and self-determination with respect to
the most intimate decisions of a human being.
5\. During the course of hearing, the Union of India tendered an Affidavit
dated 11th July, 2018 wherein it was submitted that with respect to the
Constitutional validity of Section 377 insofar as it applies to consensual
acts of adults in private, the Union of India would leave the said question to
the wisdom of this Hon’ble Court.
3 However, if the Court is to decide and examine any issue other than the
Constitutional validity of Section 377, or construe any other right in favour
of the LGBT community, the Union of India would like to file a detailed
Affidavit as that would have far-reaching and wide ramifications, not
contemplated by the reference.
6\. LEGISLATIVE BACKGROUND 6.1. The legal treatises Fleta and Britton, which
date back to 1290 and 1300 respectively, documented prevailing laws in England
at the time. These treatises made references to sodomy as a crime.2 6.2. The
Buggery Act, 1533 was re-enacted in 1563 during the regime of Queen Elizabeth
I, which penalized acts of sodomy by hanging.
In 1861, death penalty for buggery was abolished in England and Wales.
However, it remained a crime “not to be mentioned by Christians”.
6.3. The 1861 Act became the charter for enactments framed in the colonies of
Great Britain.
2 John Boswell, Christianity, Social Tolerance, and Homosexuality: Gay People
in Western Europe from the Beginning of the Christian Era to the Fourteenth
Century (University of Chicago Press, 1980), at p. 292  4 6.4. The Marginal
Note of Section 377, refers to “Unnatural Offences”. Section 377 reads as
under:
“377. Unnatural offences.— Whoever voluntarily has carnal intercourse against
the order of nature with any man, woman or animal, shall be punished with
imprisonment for life, or with imprisonment of either description for a term
which may extend to ten years, and shall also be liable to fine.
Explanation.—Penetration is sufficient to constitute the carnal intercourse
necessary to the offence described in this section.” (emphasis supplied) 6.5.
Section 377 does not define “carnal intercourse against the order of nature”.
Even though the provision is facially neutral, the Petitioners submit that the
thrust of this provision has been to target the LGBT community in light of the
colonial history of anti-sodomy laws, and penalise what was perceived to be
‘deviant’ or ‘perverse’ sexual behaviour.
7\. In the early 20th century, there were many psychiatric theories which
regarded homosexuality as a form of psychopathology or developmental arrest.3
It was believed that normal development resulted in a child growing up to be a
heterosexual adult, and that homosexuality was but a state of 3 Report of the
Committee on Homosexual Offences and Prostitution, 1957, at para 30.  5
arrested development.4 Homosexuality was treated as a disorder or mental
illness, which was meted out with social ostracism and revulsion.
8\. Towards the end of the 20th century, this notion began to change, and the
earlier theories gave way to a more enlightened perspective that characterized
homosexuality as a normal and natural variant of human sexuality. Scientific
studies indicated that human sexuality is complex and inherent.5 Kurt Hiller
in his speech delivered at the Second International Congress for Sexual Reform
held at Copenhagen in 19286, stated:
> “Same-sex love is not a mockery of nature, but rather nature at play…As
> Nietzsche expressed it in Daybreak, Procreation is a frequently occurring
> accidental result of one way of satisfying the sexual drive – it is neither
> its goal nor its necessary consequence. The theory which would make
> procreation the goal of sexuality is exposed as hasty, simplistic and false
> by the phenomenon of same-sex love alone. Nature’s laws, unlike the laws
> formulated by the human mind, cannot be violated. The assertion that a
> specific phenomenon of nature could somehow be “contrary to nature” amounts
> to pure absurdity…To belong, not to the rule, not to the norm, but rather to
> the exception, to the minority, to the variety, is neither a symptom of
> degeneration nor of pathology.” 4 Benjamin J. Sadock et al., Kaplan and
> Sadock’s Comprehensive Textbook of Psychiatry (9th ed., 2009), at pp.
> 2060-89 5 Id 6 Great Speeches on Gay Rights (James Daley ed.; Dover
> Publications, 2010), at pp. 24-30  6 (emphasis supplied)
9\. In 1957, the United Kingdom published the Wolfenden Committee Report
(supra) which recognised how the anti- sodomy laws had created an atmosphere
for blackmail, harassment and violence against homosexuals. An extract of the
findings of this Committee reads as under: “We have found it hard to decide
whether the blackmailer’s primary weapon is the threat of disclosure to the
police, with attendant legal consequences, or the threat of disclosure to the
victim’s relatives, employers or friends, with attendant social consequences.
It may well be that the latter is the more effective weapon, but it may yet be
true that it would lose much of its edge if the social consequences were not
associated with the present legal position.” Pursuant to this Report, the
House of Lords initiated legislation to de-criminalise homosexual acts done in
private by consenting parties. The Sexual Offences Act, 1967 came to be passed
in England which de-criminalised homosexual acts done in private, provided the
parties had consented to it, and were above the age of 21.
10\. The trend of decriminalizing anti-sodomy laws world over has gained
currency during the past few decades since such laws have been recognised to
be violative of human rights. In  7 2017, the International Lesbian, Gay,
Bisexual, Trans and Intersex Association noted in its Annual State Sponsored
Homophobia Report7 that 124 countries no longer penalise homosexuality. The
change in laws in these countries was given effect to, either through
legislative amendments to the statutory enactments, or by way of court
judgments. Relationships between same-sex couples have been increasingly
accorded protection by States across the world. As per the aforesaid Report, a
total of 24 countries now allow same-sex couples to marry, while 28 countries
legally recognise partnerships between same-sex couples. Several countries
have enacted enabling legislations which protect LGBT persons from
discrimination, and allow them to adopt children.8 For instance, the United
Kingdom now outlaws discrimination in employment, education, social protection
and housing on the ground of sexual orientation. Marriage between same-sex
couples have been recognised in England and Wales.
7 Aengus Carroll And Lucas Ramón Mendos, Ilga Annual State Sponsored
Homophobia Report 2017: A World Survey Of Sexual Orientation Laws:
Criminalisation, Protection And Recognition (12th Edition, 2017), at pp. 26-36
8 Id  8 The British Prime Minister Theresa May in her speech at the
Commonwealth Joint Forum on April 17, 2018 urged Commonwealth Nations to
overhaul “outdated” anti-gay laws, and expressed regret regarding Britain’s
role in introducing such laws.9 The relevant excerpt of her speech is
extracted hereinbelow:
“ Across the world, discriminatory laws made many years ago continue to affect
the lives of many people, criminalising same-sex relations and failing to
protect women and girls.
I am all too aware that these laws were often put in place by my own country.
They were wrong then, and they are wrong now. As the UK’s Prime Minister, I
deeply regret both the fact that such laws were introduced, and the legacy of
discrimination, violence and even death that persists today. ”
11\. Section 377 has, however, remained in its original form in the IPC to
date.
12\. JUDICIAL INTERPRETATION 12.1. The essential ingredient required to
constitute an offence under Section 377 is “carnal intercourse against the
order of nature”, which is punishable with life imprisonment, or imprisonment
of either description up 9 Theresa May’s Speech at the Commonwealth Joint
Forum Plenary available at https://www.gov.uk/government/speeches/pm-speaks-
at-the-commonwealth-joint-forum- plenary-17-april-2018  9 to ten years.
Section 377 applies irrespective of gender, age, or consent.
12.2. The expression ‘carnal intercourse’ used in Section 377 is distinct from
‘sexual intercourse’ which appears in Sections 375 and 497 of the IPC. The
phrase “carnal intercourse against the order of nature” is not defined by
Section 377, or in the Code.
12.3. The term ‘carnal’ has been the subject matter of judicial interpretation
in various decisions. According to the New International Webster’s
Comprehensive Dictionary of the English Language10, ‘carnal’ means:
> “1.Pertaining to the fleshly nature or to bodily appetites.
> 2\. Sensual ; sexual.
3.Pertaining to the flesh or to the body; not spiritual; hence worldly.” 12.4.
The courts had earlier interpreted the term “carnal” to refer to acts which
fall outside penile-vaginal intercourse, and were not for the purposes of
procreation.
10 The New International Webster’s Comprehensive Dictionary of the English
Language (Deluxe Encyclopedic Edition, 1996)  10 In Khanu v. Emperor11, the
Sindh High Court was dealing with a case where the accused was found guilty of
having committed Gomorrah coitus per os with a little child, and was convicted
under Section 377. The Court held that the act of carnal intercourse was
clearly against the order of nature, because the natural object of carnal
intercourse is that there should be the possibility of conception of human
beings, which in the case of coitus per os is impossible.
The Lahore High Court in Khandu v. Emperor12 was dealing with a case wherein
the accused had penetrated the nostril of a bullock with his penis. The Court,
while relying on the decision of the Sindh High Court in Khanu v. Emperor
(supra) held that the acts of the accused constituted coitus per os, were
punishable under Section
377\. In Lohana Vasantlal Devchand & Ors v. State13 the Gujarat High Court
convicted two accused under Section 377 read with Section 511 of the IPC, on
account of 11 AIR 1925 Sind 286 12 AIR 1934 Lah 261 : 1934 Cri LJ 1096 13 AIR
1968 Guj 252  11 having carnal intercourse per anus, and inserting the penis
in the mouth of a young boy. It was held that:
> “…words used (in Section 377) are quite comprehensive and in my opinion, an
> act like the present act (oral sex), which was an imitative act of sexual
> intercourse for the purpose of his satisfying the sexual appetite, would be
> an act punishable under Section 377 of the Indian Penal Code.” Later this
> Court in Fazal Rab Choudhary v. State of Bihar14 while reducing the sentence
> of the appellant who was convicted for having committed an offence on a
> young boy under Section 377 IPC, held that:
> “…The offence is one under Section 377 I.P.C., which implies sexual
> perversity. No force appears to have been used. Neither the notions of
> permissive society nor the fact that in some countries homosexuality has
> ceased to be an offence has influenced our thinking.” (emphasis supplied)
> The test for attracting penal provisions under Section 377 changed over the
> years from non-procreative sexual acts in Khanu v. Emperor (supra), to
> imitative sexual intercourse like oral sex in Lohana Vasantlal Devchand &
> Ors. v. State (supra), to sexual perversity in Fazal Rab 14 (1982) 3 SCC 9
> 12 v. State of Bihar (supra). These cases referred to non-
> consensual sexual intercourse by coercion.
13\. HOMOSEXUALITY – NOT AN ABERRATION BUT A VARIATION OF SEXUALITY 13.1.
Whilst a great deal of scientific research has examined possible genetic,
hormonal, developmental, psychological, social and cultural influences on
sexual orientation, no findings have conclusively linked sexual orientation to
any one particular factor or factors. It is believed that one’s sexuality is
the result of a complex interplay between nature and nurture.
Sexual orientation is an innate attribute of one’s identity, and cannot be
altered. Sexual orientation is not a matter of choice. It manifests in early
adolescence. Homosexuality is a natural variant of human sexuality. The U.S.
Supreme Court in Lawrence et al. v. Texas15 relied upon the Brief of the Amici
Curiae16 which stated:
> “Heterosexual and homosexual behavior are both normal aspects of human
> sexuality. Both have been documented in many different human cultures and
> historical eras, and in a wide variety of animal species. There is no
> consensus among 15 539 U.S. 558 (2003) 16 Brief for the Amici Curiae
> American Psychological Association, American Psychiatric Association,
> National Association of Social Workers, and Texas Chapter of the National
> Association of Social Workers in Lawrence et al. v. Texas 539 U.S.
> 558(2003), available at
> http://www.apa.org/about/offices/ogc/amicus/lawrence.pdf  13 scientists
> about the exact reasons why an individual develops a heterosexual, bisexual,
> or homosexual orientation. According to current scientific and professional
> understanding, however, the core feelings and attractions that form the
> basis for adult sexual orientation typically emerge between middle childhood
> and early adolescence. Moreover, these patterns of sexual attraction
> generally arise without any prior sexual experience. Most or many gay men
> and lesbians experience little or no choice about their sexual orientation.”
> (emphasis supplied) 13.2. An article by K.K. Gulia and H.N. Mallick titled
> “Homosexuality: A Dilemma in Discourse”17 states:
> “In general, homosexuality as a sexual orientation refers to an enduring
> pattern or disposition to experience sexual, affectional, or romantic
> attractions primarily to people of the same sex. It also refers to an
> individual’s sense of personal and social identity based on those
> attractions, behaviours, expressing them, and membership in a community of
> others who share them. It is a condition in which one is attracted and drawn
> to his/her own gender, which is evidenced by the erotic and emotional
> involvement with members of his/her own sex… …In the course of the 20th
> century, homosexuality became a subject of considerable study and debate in
> western societies. It was predominantly viewed as a disorder or mental
> illness. At that time, emerged two major pioneering studies on homosexuality
> carried out by Alfred Charles Kinsey (1930) and Evelyn Hooker (1957)…This
> empirical study of sexual behavior among American adults revealed that a
> significant 17 KK Gulia and HN Mallick, Homosexuality: a dilemma in
> discourse, 54 Indian Journal of Physiology and Pharmacology (2010), at pp.
> 5, 6 and 8  14 number of participants were homosexuals. In this study when
> people were asked directly if they had engaged in homosexual relations, the
> percentage of positive responses nearly doubled.
> The result of this study became the widely popularized Kinsey Scale of
> Sexuality. This scales rates all individuals on a spectrum of sexuality,
> ranging from 100% heterosexual to 100% homosexual…” (emphasis supplied)
> 13.3. The American Psychiatric Association in December 1973 removed
> ‘homosexuality’ from the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Psychological
> Disorders, and opined that the manifestation of sexual attraction towards
> persons of the opposite sex, or same sex, is a natural condition.18 13.4.
> The World Health Organization removed homosexuality from the list of
> diseases in the International Classification of Diseases in the publication
> of ICD-10 in 1992.19 18 Jack Drescher, Out of DSM: Depathologizing
> Homosexuality, 5(4) Behavioral Sciences (2015), at p. 565 19 The ICD-10
> classification of mental and behavioural disorders: clinical descriptions
> and diagnostic guidelines, World Health Organization, Geneva (1992)
> available at http://www.who.int/classifications/icd/en/bluebook.pdf  15
> 13.5. In India, the Indian Psychiatric Society has also opined that sexual
> orientation is not a psychiatric disorder.20 It was noted that:
> “…there is no scientific evidence that sexual orientation can be altered by
> any treatment and that any such attempts may in fact lead to low self-esteem
> and stigmatization of the person.” 13.6. It is relevant to note that under
> Section 3 of the Mental Healthcare Act, 2017, determination of what
> constitutes a “mental illness” has to be done in accordance with nationally
> and internationally accepted medical standards, including the latest edition
> of the International Classification of Disease of the World Health
> Organisation.
> 14\. SECTION 377 IF APPLIED TO CONSENTING ADULTS IS VIOLATIVE OF ARTICLE 14
> 14.1. One of the main contentions raised by the Petitioners to challenge the
> Constitutional validity of Section 377 is founded on Article 14 of the
> Constitution. Article 14 enshrines the principle of equality as a
> fundamental right, and mandates that the State shall not deny to any 20
> Indian Psychiatry Society: "Position statement on Homosexuality"
> IPS/Statement/02/07/2018 available at
> http://www.indianpsychiatricsociety.org/upload_images/imp_download_files/15311250
> 54_1.pdf  16 person equality before the law, or the equal protection of the
> laws within the territory of India. It recognizes and guarantees the right
> of equal treatment to all persons in this country.
> It is contended that Section 377 discriminates against adults of the same
> gender, from having a consensual sexual relationship in private, by treating
> it as a penal offence, and hence is violative of Article 14.
> 14.2. The twin-test of classification under Article 14 provides that:
(i) there should be a reasonable classification based on intelligible
differentia; and,
(ii) this classification should have a rational nexus with the objective
sought to be achieved.
14.3. Section 377 operates in a vastly different manner for two classes of
persons based on their “sexual orientation” i.e. the LGBT persons and
heterosexual persons. Section 377 penalises all forms of non penile-vaginal
intercourse. In effect, voluntary consensual relationships between LGBT
persons are criminalised in totality.
17 The import and effect of Section 377 is that while a consensual
heterosexual relationship is permissible, a consensual relationship between
LGBT persons is considered to be ‘carnal’, and against the order of nature.
Section 377 creates an artificial dichotomy. The natural or innate sexual
orientation of a person cannot be a ground for discrimination. Where a
legislation discriminates on the basis of an intrinsic and core trait of an
individual, it cannot form a reasonable classification based on an
intelligible differentia. 14.4. In National Legal Services Authority v. Union
of India & Ors.21 this Court granted equal protection of laws to transgender
persons. There is therefore no justification to deny the same to LGBT persons.
14.5. A person’s sexual orientation is intrinsic to their being. It is
connected with their individuality, and identity. A classification which
discriminates between persons based on their innate nature, would be violative
of their fundamental rights, and cannot withstand the test of constitutional
morality.
21 (2014) 5 SCC 438  18 14.6. In contemporary civilised jurisprudence, with
States increasingly recognising the status of same-sex relationships, it would
be retrograde to describe such relationships as being ‘perverse’, ‘deviant’,
or ‘unnatural’. 14.7. Section 375 defines the offence of rape. It provides for
penetrative acts which if performed by a man against a woman without her
consent, or by obtaining her consent under duress, would amount to rape.
Penetrative acts (after the 2013 Amendment) include anal and oral sex. The
necessary implication which can be drawn from the amended provision is that if
such penetrative acts are done with the consent of the woman they are not
punishable under Section 375.
While Section 375 permits consensual penetrative acts (the definition of
‘penetration’ includes oral and anal sex), Section 377 makes the same acts of
penetration punishable irrespective of consent. This creates a dichotomy in
the law.
14.8. The proscription of a consensual sexual relationship under Section 377
is not founded on any known or rational criteria. Sexual expression and
intimacy of a  19 consensual nature, between adults in private, cannot be
treated as “carnal intercourse against the order of nature”.
14.9. Emphasising on the second part of Article 14 which enjoins the State to
provide equal protection of laws to all persons, Nariman, J. in his concurring
opinion in Shayara Bano v. Union of India & Ors.22 elucidated on the doctrine
of manifest arbitrariness as a facet of Article 14. Apart from the
conventional twin-tests of classification discussed in the preceding
paragraphs, a legislation, or part thereof, can also be struck down under
Article 14 on the ground that it is manifestly arbitrary. It would be
instructive to refer to the following passage from the judgment of this Court
in Shayara Bano v. Union of India & Ors. (supra):
> “101…Manifest arbitrariness, therefore, must be something done by the
> legislature capriciously, irrationally and/or without adequate determining
> principle. Also, when something is done which is excessive and
> disproportionate, such legislation would be manifestly arbitrary.” Section
> 377 insofar as it criminalises consensual sexual acts between adults in
> private, is not based on 22 (2017) 9 SCC 1  20 any sound or rational
> principle, since the basis of criminalisation is the “sexual orientation” of
> a person, over which one has “little or no choice”.
Further, the phrase “carnal intercourse against the order of nature” in
Section 377 as a determining principle in a penal provision, is too open-
ended, giving way to the scope for misuse against members of the LGBT
community.
Thus, apart from not satisfying the twin-test under Article 14, Section 377 is
also manifestly arbitrary, and hence violative of Article 14 of the
Constitution.
15\. SECTION 377 IS VIOLATIVE OF ARTICLE 15 Article 15 prohibits the State
from discrimination against any citizen on the grounds of religion, race,
caste, sex, or place of birth. The object of this provision was to guarantee
protection to those citizens who had suffered historical disadvantage, whether
it be of a political, social, or economic nature.
15.1. The term ‘sex’, as it occurs in Article 15 has been given an expansive
interpretation by this Court in National Legal Services Authority v. Union of
India & Ors. (supra)  21 to include sexual identity. Paragraph 66 of the
judgment reads thus:
> “66…Both gender and biological attributes constitute distinct components of
> sex. The biological characteristics, of course, include genitals,
> chromosomes and secondary sexual features, but gender attributes includes
> one’s self-
image, the deep psychological or emotional sense of sexual identity and
character. The discrimination on the ground of sex under Article 15 and 16,
therefore includes discrimination on the ground of gender identity. The
expression sex used in Articles 15 and 16 is not just limited to biological
sex of male and female, but intended to include people who consider themselves
neither male nor female.” (emphasis supplied and internal quotations omitted)
Sex as it occurs in Article 15, is not merely restricted to the biological
attributes of an individual, but also includes their “sexual identity and
character”. The J.S. Verma Committee23 had recommended that ‘sex’ under
Article 15 must include ‘sexual orientation’:
> “65. We must also recognize that our society has the need to recognize
> different sexual orientations a human reality. In addition to homosexuality,
> bisexuality, and lesbianism, there also exists the transgender community. In
> view of the lack of scientific understanding of the different variations of
> orientation, even advanced societies have had to first declassify
> ‘homosexuality’ from being a mental disorder and now it is understood as a
> 23 Report of the Committee on Amendments to Criminal Law (2013)  22
> triangular development occasioned by evolution, partial conditioning and
> neurological underpinnings owing to genetic reasons. Further, we are clear
> that Article 15(c) of the constitution of India uses the word “sex” as
> including sexual orientation.” The prohibition against discrimination under
> Article 15 on the ground of ‘sex’ should therefore encompass instances where
> such discrimination takes place on the basis of one’s sexual orientation.
In this regard, the view taken by the Human Rights Committee of the United
Nations in Nicholas Toonen v. Australia24 is relevant to cite, wherein the
Committee noted that the reference to ‘sex’ in Article 2, Paragraph 1 and
Article 26 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights would
include ‘sexual orientation’. 15.2. In an article titled “Reading Swaraj into
Article 15: A New Deal For All Minorities”25, Tarunabh Khaitan notes that the
underlying commonality between the grounds specified in Article 15 is based on
the ideas of ‘immutable status’ and ‘fundamental choice’. He refers to the 24
Communication No. 488/1992, U.N. Doc.CCPR/C/50/D/488/1992 (1994) 25 Tarunabh
Khaitan, Reading Swaraj into Article 15: A New Deal For All Minorities, 2 NUJS
Law Review (2009), at p. 419  23 following quote by John Gardener to provide
context to the aforesaid commonality:
> “Discrimination on the basis of our immutable status tends to deny us [an
> autonomous] life. Its result is that our further choices are constrained not
> mainly by our own choices, but by the choices of others. Because these
> choices of others are based on our immutable status, our own choices can
> make no difference to them. .... And discrimination on the ground of
> fundamental choices can be wrongful by the same token. To lead an autonomous
> life we need an adequate range of valuable options throughout that life....
there are some particular valuable options that each of us should have
irrespective of our other choices. Where a particular choice is a choice
between valuable options which ought to be available to people whatever else
they may choose, it is a fundamental choice. Where there is discrimination
against people based on their fundamental choices it tends to skew those
choices by making one or more of the valuable options from which they must
choose more painful or burdensome than others.”26 (emphasis supplied) Race,
caste, sex, and place of birth are aspects over which a person has no control,
ergo they are immutable. On the other hand, religion is a fundamental choice
of a person.27 Discrimination based on any of these grounds would undermine an
individual’s personal autonomy. 26 John Gardner, On the Ground of Her Sex
(uality), 18(2) Oxford Journal of Legal Studies (1998), at p. 167 27 Supra
note 25  24 The Supreme Court of Canada in its decisions in the cases of Egan
v. Canada28, and Vriend v. Alberta29, interpreted Section 15(1)30 of the
Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms which is pari materia to Article 15 of
the Indian Constitution.
Section 15(1), of the Canadian Charter like Article 15 of our Constitution,
does not include “sexual orientation” as a prohibited ground of
discrimination.
Notwithstanding that, the Canadian Supreme Court in the aforesaid decisions
has held that sexual orientation is a “ground analogous” to the other grounds
specified under Section 15(1). Discrimination based on any of these grounds
has adverse impact on an individual’s personal autonomy, and is undermining of
his personality.
28 [1995] SCC 98 29 [1998] SCC 816 30 “15. Equality before and under law and
equal protection and benefit of law (1) Every individual is equal before and
under the law and has the right to the equal protection and equal benefit of
the law without discrimination and, in particular, without discrimination
based on race, national or ethnic origin, colour, religion, sex, age or mental
or physical disability…” Article 15(1), Canadian Charter of Rights and
Freedoms.  25 A similar conclusion can be reached in the Indian context as
well in light of the underlying aspects of immutability and fundamental
choice.
The LGBT community is a sexual minority which has suffered from unjustified
and unwarranted hostile discrimination, and is equally entitled to the
protection afforded by Article 15.
16\. SECTION 377 VIOLATES THE RIGHT TO LIFE AND LIBERTY GUARANTEED BY ARTICLE
21 Article 21 provides that no person shall be deprived of his life or
personal liberty except according to the procedure established by law. Such
procedure established by law must be fair, just and reasonable.31 The right to
life and liberty affords protection to every citizen or non-citizen,
irrespective of their identity or orientation, without discrimination.
16.1. RIGHT TO LIVE WITH DIGNITY This Court has expansively interpreted the
terms “life” and “personal liberty” to recognise a panoply of rights 31 Maneka
Gandhi v. Union of India & Anr., (1978) 1 SCC 248, at paragraph 48  26 under
Article 21 of the Constitution, so as to comprehend the true scope and
contours of the right to life under Article 21. Article 21 is “the most
precious human right and forms the ark of all other rights” as held in Francis
Coralie Mullin v. Administrator, Union Territory of Delhi & Ors.,32 wherein it
was noted that the right to life could not be restricted to a mere animal
existence, and provided for much more than only physical survival.33 Bhagwati
J. observed as under:
> “8…We think that the right to life includes the right to live with human
> dignity and all that goes along with it, namely the bare necessaries of life
> such as adequate nutrition, clothing and shelter and facilities for reading,
> writing and expressing oneself in diverse forms, freely moving about and
> mixing and commingling with fellow human beings…it must in any view of the
> matter, include the right to the basic necessities of life and also the
> right to carry on such functions and activities as constitute the bare
> minimum expression of the human-self. Every act which offends against or
> impairs human dignity would constitute deprivation pro tanto of this right
> to live and it would have to be in accordance with reasonable, fair and just
> procedure established by law which stands the test of other fundamental
> rights.” (emphasis supplied) 32 (1981) 1 SCC 608 33 (1981) 1 SCC 608 at
> paragraph 7  27 This was re-affirmed by the Constitution bench decision in
> K.S. Puttaswamy & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors.34 and Common Cause (A
> Registered Society) v. Union of India & Anr.35 Although dignity is an
> amorphous concept which is incapable of being defined, it is a core
> intrinsic value of every human being. Dignity is considered essential for a
> meaningful existence.36 In National Legal Services Authority v. Union of
> India & Ors. (supra), this Court recognised the right of transgender persons
> to decide their self-identified gender. In the context of the legal rights
> of transgender persons, this Court held that sexual orientation and gender
> identity is an integral part of their personality.
The relevant excerpt from Radhakrishnan, J.’s view is extracted hereinbelow:
“22. …Each person’s self-defined sexual orientation and gender identity is
integral to their personality and is one of the most basic aspects of self-
determination, dignity and freedom…” (emphasis supplied) 34 (2017) 10 SCC 1 35
(2018) 5 SCC 1 at paragraphs 156, 437, 438, 488 & 516 36 Common Cause (A
Registered Society) v. Union of India and Anr., (2018) 5 SCC 1, at paragraphs
437 and 438  28 Sexual orientation is innate to a human being. It is an
important attribute of one’s personality and identity. Homosexuality and
bisexuality are natural variants of human sexuality. LGBT persons have little
or no choice over their sexual orientation. LGBT persons, like other
heterosexual persons, are entitled to their privacy, and the right to lead a
dignified existence, without fear of persecution. They are entitled to
complete autonomy over the most intimate decisions relating to their personal
life, including the choice of their partners. Such choices must be protected
under Article 21. The right to life and liberty would encompass the right to
sexual autonomy, and freedom of expression.
The following excerpt from the decision of the Constitutional Court of South
Africa in National Coalition for Gay and Lesbian Equality and Anr. v. Minister
of Justice and Ors.37 is also instructive in this regard:
> “While recognising the unique worth of each person, the Constitution does
> not presuppose that a holder of rights is an isolated, lonely and abstract
> figure possessing a disembodied and 37 [1998] ZACC 15  29 socially
> disconnected self. It acknowledges that people live in their bodies, their
> communities, their cultures, their places and their times. The expression of
> sexuality requires a partner, real or imagined. It is not for the state to
> choose or arrange the choice of partner, but for the partners to choose
> themselves.” (emphasis supplied) Section 377 insofar as it curtails the
> personal liberty of LGBT persons to engage in voluntary consensual sexual
> relationships with a partner of their choice, in a safe and dignified
> environment, is violative of Article 21. It inhibits them from entering and
> nurturing enduring relationships. As a result, LGBT individuals are forced
> to either lead a life of solitary existence without a companion, or lead a
> closeted life as “unapprehended felons”.38 Section 377 criminalises the
> entire class of LGBT persons since sexual intercourse between such persons,
> is considered to be carnal and “against the order of nature”. Section 377
> prohibits LGBT persons from engaging in intimate sexual relations in
> private.
38 According to Professor Edwin Cameron, LGBT persons are reduced to the
status of “unapprehended felons” owing to the ever-so-present threat of
prosecution. Edwin Cameron, Sexual Orientation and the Constitution: A Test
Case for Human Rights, 110 South African Law Journal (1993), at p. 450  30 The
social ostracism against LGBT persons prevents them from partaking in all
activities as full citizens, and in turn impedes them from realising their
fullest potential as human beings.
On the issue of criminalisation of homosexuality, the dissenting opinion of
Blackmun J. of the U.S. Supreme Court in Bowers v. Hardwick39 is instructive,
which cites a previous decision in Paris Adult Theatre I v. Slaton40 and noted
as follows:
> “Only the most wilful blindness could obscure the fact that sexual intimacy
> is a sensitive, key relationship of human existence, central to family life,
> community welfare, and the development of human personality.” (emphasis
> supplied) The U.S. Supreme Court over-ruled Bowers v.
Hardwick (supra) in Lawrence et al. v. Texas. (supra) and declared that a
statute proscribing homosexuals from engaging in intimate sexual conduct as
invalid on the ground that it violated the right to privacy, and dignity of
homosexual persons. Kennedy, J. in his majority opinion observed as under:
39 478 U.S. 186 (1986) 40 413 U.S. 49 (1973)  31 “To say that the issue in
Bowers was simply the right to engage in certain sexual conduct demeans the
claim the individual put forward, just as it would demean a married couple
were it to be said marriage is simply about the right to have sexual
intercourse… …It suffices for us to acknowledge that adults may choose to
enter upon this relationship in the confines of their homes and their own
private lives and still retain their dignity as free persons. When sexuality
finds overt expression in intimate conduct with another person, the conduct
can be but one element in a personal bond that is more enduring. The liberty
protected by the Constitution allows homosexual persons the right to make this
choice…This stigma this criminal statute imposes, moreover, is not trivial.
The offence, to be sure, is but a class C misdemeanour, a minor offence in the
Texas legal system. Still, it remains a criminal offence with all that imports
for the dignity of the persons charged. The petitioners will bear on their
record the history of criminal convictions... …The present case does not
involve minors. It does not involve persons who might be injured or coerced or
who are situated in relationships where consent might not easily be refused.
It does not involve public conduct or prostitution. It does not involve
whether the government must give formal recognition to any relationship that
homosexuals persons seek to enter. The case does involve two adults who, with
full and mutual consent from each other, engage in sexual practices, common to
a homosexual lifestyle. The Petitioners are entitled to respect for their
private lives. The State cannot demean their existence or control their
destiny by making their private sexual conduct a crime. The right to liberty
under the Due Process Clause gives them the full right to engage in their
conduct without intervention of the government. It is a promise of the
Constitution that there is a realm of personal liberty which the government
may not enter. Casey, supra at 847. The Texas statute  32 furthers no
legitimate state interest which can justify its intrusion into the personal
and private life of the individual.” (emphasis supplied) Thus, Section 377
prevents LGBT persons from leading a dignified life as guaranteed by Article
21.
16.2. RIGHT TO PRIVACY The right to privacy has now been recognised to be an
intrinsic part of the right to life and personal liberty under Article 21.41
Sexual orientation is an innate part of the identity of LGBT persons. Sexual
orientation of a person is an essential attribute of privacy. Its protection
lies at the core of Fundamental Rights guaranteed by Articles 14, 15, and
21.42 The right to privacy is broad-based and pervasive under our
Constitutional scheme, and encompasses decisional autonomy, to cover
intimate/personal 41 K.S. Puttaswamy & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors., (2017)
10 SCC 1 42 K.S. Puttaswamy & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors., (2017) 10 SCC 1,
at paragraphs 144, 145, 479 and 647  33 decisions and preserves the sanctity
of the private sphere of an individual.43 The right to privacy is not simply
the “right to be let alone”, and has travelled far beyond that initial
concept. It now incorporates the ideas of spatial privacy, and decisional
privacy or privacy of choice.44 It extends to the right to make fundamental
personal choices, including those relating to intimate sexual conduct, without
unwarranted State interference.
Section 377 affects the private sphere of the lives of LGBT persons. It takes
away the decisional autonomy of LGBT persons to make choices consistent with
their sexual orientation, which would further a dignified existence and a
meaningful life as a full person. Section 377 prohibits LGBT persons from
expressing their sexual orientation and engaging in sexual conduct in private,
a decision which inheres in the most intimate spaces of one’s existence.
43 K.S. Puttaswamy & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors., (2017) 10 SCC 1, at
paragraph 248, 250, 371 and 403 44 K.S. Puttaswamy & Anr. v. Union of India &
Ors., (2017) 10 SCC 1, at paragraphs 248, 249, 371 and 521  34 The
Constitutional Court of South Africa in National Coalition for Gay and Lesbian
Equality & Anr. v. Minister of Justice & Ors. (supra) noted as under:
> “Privacy recognises that we all have a right to a sphere of private intimacy
> and autonomy which allows us to establish and nurture human relationships
> without interference from the outside community. The way in which we give
> expression to our sexuality is at the core of this area of private intimacy.
> If, in expressing our sexuality, we act consensually and without harming one
> another, invasion of that precinct will be a breach of our privacy.” Just
> like other fundamental rights, the right to privacy is not an absolute right
> and is subject to reasonable restrictions. Any restriction on the right to
> privacy must adhere to the requirements of legality, existence of a
> legitimate state interest, and proportionality.45 A subjective notion of
> public or societal morality which discriminates against LGBT persons, and
> subjects them to criminal sanction, simply on the basis of an innate
> characteristic runs counter to the concept of Constitutional morality, and
> cannot form the basis of a legitimate State interest.
45 K.S. Puttaswamy & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors., (2017) 10 SCC 1, at
paragraphs 325, 638 and 645  35 The theme of inclusiveness permeates through
Part III of the Constitution. Apart from the equality code of the Constitution
comprised in Articles 14, 15(1), 16, and other provisions in the form of
Article 17 (Abolition of Untouchability), Article 21A (Right to Education),
Article 25 (Freedom of Conscience and Free Profession, Practice and
Propagation of Religion), Article 26 (Freedom to Manage Religious Affairs),
Article 29 (Protection of Interest of Minorities), Article 30 (Right of
Minorities to Establish and Administer Educational Institutions) are aimed at
creating an inclusive society where rights are guaranteed to all, regardless
of their status as a minority.
16.3. RIGHT TO HEALTH The right to health, and access to healthcare are also
crucial facets of the right to life guaranteed under Article 21 of the
Constitution.46 LGBT persons being a sexual minority have been subjected to
societal prejudice, discrimination and 46 Common Cause (A Registered Society)
v. Union of India & Anr., (2018) 5 SCC 1, at paragraph 304; C.E.S.C. Limited &
Ors. v. Subhash Chandra Bose & Ors., (1992) 1 SCC 441, at paragraph 32; Union
of India v. Mool Chand Khairati Ram Trust, (2018) SCC OnLine SC 675, at
paragraph 66; and, Centre for Public Interest Litigation v. Union of India &
Ors., (2013) 16 SCC 279, at paragraph 25  36 violence on account of their
sexual orientation. Since Section 377 criminalises “carnal intercourse against
the order of nature” it compels LGBT persons to lead closeted lives. As a
consequence, LGBT persons are seriously disadvantaged and prejudiced when it
comes to access to health-care facilities. This results in serious health
issues, including depression and suicidal tendencies amongst members of this
community.47 LGBT persons, and more specifically the MSM, and transgender
persons are at a higher risk of contracting HIV as they lack safe spaces to
engage in safe-sex practices. They are inhibited from seeking medical help for
testing, treatment and supportive care on account of the threat of being
‘exposed’ and the resultant prosecution.48 Higher rates of prevalence of HIV-
AIDS in MSM, who are in turn married to other people of the opposite sex,
coupled with the difficulty in detection and 47 M.V. Lee Badgett, The Economic
Cost of Stigma and the Exclusion of LGBT People: A Case Study of India, World
Bank Group (2014) available at
http://documents.worldbank.org/curated/en/527261468035379692/The-economic-
cost-of-stigma-and-the-exclusion-of-LGBT-people-a-case-study-of-India (Last
accessed on August 11, 2018) 48 Govindasamy Agoramoorthy and Minna J Hsu,
India’s homosexual discrimination and health consequences, 41(4) Rev Saude
Publica (2007), at pp. 567-660 available at
http://www.scielo.br/pdf/rsp/v41n4/6380.pdf  37 treatment, makes them highly
susceptible to contraction and further transmission of the virus.
It is instructive to refer to the findings of the Human Rights Committee of
the United Nations in Nicholas Toonen v. Australia (supra):
“8.5 As far as the public health argument of the Tasmanian authorities is
concerned, the Committee notes that the criminalization of homosexual
practices cannot be considered a reasonable means or proportionate measure to
achieve the aim of preventing the spread of AIDS/HIV. The Australian
Government observes that statutes criminalizing homosexual activity tend to
impede public health programmes by driving underground many of the people at
the risk of infection. Criminalization of homosexual activity thus would
appear to run counter to the implementation of effective education programmes
in respect of the HIV/AIDS prevention. Secondly, the Committee notes that no
link has been shown between the continued criminalization of homosexual
activity and the effective control of the spread of the HIV/AIDS virus.”
(emphasis supplied and internal footnotes omitted) The American Psychological
Association, American Psychiatric Association, National Association of Social
Workers and the Texas Chapter of the National Association of Social Workers in
their Amicus Brief in Lawrence et al. v. Texas (supra) stated as follows:  38
“III. Texas Penal Code S. 21.06 reinforces prejudice, discrimination, and
violence against gay men and lesbians…Although many gay men and lesbians learn
to cope with the social stigma against homosexuality, this pattern of
prejudice can cause gay people serious psychological distress, especially if
they attempt to conceal or deny their sexual orientation….”49 (emphasis
supplied) It is pertinent to mention that in India the Mental Healthcare Act,
2017 came into force on July 7, 2018\. Sections 18(1) and (2) read with
21(1)(a) of the Mental Healthcare Act, 2017 provide for the right to access
mental healthcare and equal treatment of people with physical and mental
illnesses without discrimination, inter alia, on the basis of “sexual
orientation”.
This gives rise to a paradoxical situation since Section 377 criminalises LGBT
persons, which inhibits them from accessing health-care facilities, while the
Mental Healthcare Act, 2017 provides a right to access mental healthcare
without discrimination, even on the ground of ‘sexual orientation’.
49 Supra note 16, at page 3  39
17\. SECTION 377 VIOLATES THE RIGHT TO FREEDOM OF EXPRESSION OF LGBT PERSONS
17.1. Article 19(1)(a) guarantees freedom of expression to all citizens.
However, reasonable restrictions can be imposed on the exercise of this right
on the grounds specified in Article 19(2).
LGBT persons express their sexual orientation in myriad ways. One such way is
engagement in intimate sexual acts like those proscribed under Section 377.50
Owing to the fear of harassment from law enforcement agencies and prosecution,
LGBT persons tend to stay ‘in the closet’. They are forced not to disclose a
central aspect of their personal identity i.e. their sexual orientation, both
in their personal and professional spheres to avoid persecution in society and
the opprobrium attached to homosexuality. Unlike heterosexual persons, they
are inhibited from openly forming and nurturing fulfilling relationships,
thereby restricting rights of full personhood and a dignified 50 Lawrence et
al. v. Texas, 539 U.S. 558 (2003); and, National Coalition for Gay and Lesbian
Equality & Anr. v. Minister of Justice & Ors., [1998] ZACC 15  40 existence.
It also has an impact on their mental well-
being.
17.2. In National Legal Services Authority v. Union of India & Ors. (supra),
this Court noted that gender identity is an important aspect of personal
identity and is inherent to a person. It was held that transgender persons
have the right to express their self-identified gender by way of speech,
mannerism, behaviour, presentation and clothing, etc.51 The Court also noted
that like gender identity, sexual orientation is integral to one’s
personality, and is a basic aspect of self-determination, dignity and
freedom.52 The proposition that sexual orientation is integral to one’s
personality and identity was affirmed by the Constitution Bench in K.S.
Puttaswamy & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors.53 In this regard, it is instructive
to refer to the decision of this Court in S. Khushboo v. Kanniammal & Anr.54
wherein the following observation was made in the 51 (2014) 5 SCC 438, at
paragraphs 69-72 52 (2014) 5 SCC 438, at paragraph 22 53 (2017) 10 SCC 1, at
paragraphs 144, 145, 647 54 (2010) 5 SCC 600  41 context of the phrase
“decency and morality” as it occurs in Article 19(2):
> “45. Even though the constitutional freedom of speech and expression is not
> absolute and can be subjected to reasonable restrictions on grounds such as
> “decency and morality” among others, we must lay stress on the need to
> tolerate unpopular views in the sociocultural space. The Framers of our
> Constitution recognised the importance of safeguarding this right since the
> free flow of opinions and ideas is essential to sustain the collective life
> of the citizenry. While an informed citizenry is a precondition for
> meaningful governance in the political sense, we must also promote a culture
> of open dialogue when it comes to societal attitudes.
46…Notions of social morality are inherently subjective and the criminal law
cannot be used as a means to unduly interfere with the domain of personal
autonomy. Morality and criminality are not coextensive.” (emphasis supplied)
Therefore, Section 377 cannot be justified as a reasonable restriction under
Article 19(2) on the basis of public or societal morality, since it is
inherently subjective.
18\. SURESH KUMAR KOUSHAL OVERRULED The two-Judge bench of this Court in
Suresh Kumar Koushal & Anr. v. Naz Foundation & Ors. (supra) over-ruled the
42 decision of the Delhi High Court in Naz Foundation v.
Government of NCT of Delhi & Ors.55 which had declared Section 377 insofar as
it criminalised consensual sexual acts of adults in private to be violative of
Articles 14, 15 and 21 of the Constitution.
The grounds on which the two-judge bench of this Court over-ruled the judgment
in Naz Foundation v. Government of NCT of Delhi & Ors. (supra) were that:
> i. Section 377 does not criminalise particular people or identity or
> orientation. It merely identifies certain acts which if committed would
> constitute an offence. Such a prohibition regulates sexual conduct,
> regardless of gender identity and orientation.
Those who indulge in carnal intercourse in the ordinary course, and those who
indulge in carnal intercourse against the order of nature, constitute
different classes. Persons falling in the latter category cannot claim that
Section 377 suffers from the vice of arbitrariness and irrational 55 (2009)
111 DRJ 1 (DB)  43 classification. Section 377 merely defines a particular
offence, and prescribes a punishment for the same.
ii. LGBT persons constitute a “miniscule fraction” of the country’s
population, and there have been very few prosecutions under this Section.
Hence, it could not have been made a sound basis for declaring Section 377 to
be ultra-vires Articles 14, 15, and  21. iii. It was held that merely because
Section 377, IPC has been used to perpetrate harassment, blackmail and torture
to persons belonging to the LGBT community, cannot be a ground for challenging
the vires of the Section.
iv. After noting that Section 377 was intra vires, this Court observed that
the legislature was free to repeal or amend Section 377.
19\. The fallacy in the Judgment of Suresh Kumar Koushal & Anr. v. Naz
Foundation & Ors. (supra) is that:
i. The offence of “carnal intercourse against the order of nature” has not
been defined in Section  44
377\. It is too wide, and open-ended, and would take within its sweep, and
criminalise even sexual acts of consenting adults in private.
In this context, it would be instructive to refer to the decision of a
Constitution Bench of this Court in A.K. Roy v. Union of India56 wherein it
was held that:
“ 62. The requirement that crimes must be defined with appropriate
definiteness is regarded as a fundamental concept in criminal law and must now
be regarded as a pervading theme of our Constitution since the decision in
Maneka Gandhi. The underlying principle is that every person is entitled to be
informed as to what the State commands or forbids and that the life and
liberty of a person cannot be put in peril on an ambiguity. However, even in
the domain of criminal law, the processes of which can result in the taking
away of life itself, no more than a reasonable degree of certainty has to be
accepted as a fact. Neither the criminal law nor the Constitution requires the
application of impossible standards and therefore, what is expected is that
the language of the law must contain an adequate warning of the conduct which
may fall within the proscribed area, when measured by common understanding….”
(emphasis supplied) 56 (1982) 1 SCC 271  45 The Judgment does not advert to
the distinction between consenting adults engaging in sexual intercourse, and
sexual acts which are without the will, or consent of the other party. A
distinction has to be made between consensual relationships of adults in
private, whether they are heterosexual or homosexual in nature.
Furthermore, consensual relationships between adults cannot be classified
along with offences of bestiality, sodomy and non-
consensual relationships.
Sexual orientation is immutable, since it is an innate feature of one’s
identity, and cannot be changed at will. The choice of LGBT persons to enter
into intimate sexual relations with persons of the same sex is an exercise of
their personal choice, and an expression of their autonomy and self-
determination.
        Section      377    insofar   as   it   criminalises
    voluntary     sexual     relations     between     LGBT
    persons     of    the     same       sex    in   private,
                     46
discriminates against them on the basis of their “sexual orientation” which is
violative of their fundamental rights guaranteed by Articles 14, 19, and 21 of
the Constitution.
ii. The mere fact that the LGBT persons constitute a “miniscule fraction” of
the country’s population cannot be a ground to deprive them of their
Fundamental Rights guaranteed by Part III of the Constitution. Even though the
LGBT constitute a sexual minority, members of the LGBT community are citizens
of this country who are equally entitled to the enforcement of their
Fundamental Rights guaranteed by Articles 14, 15, 19, and 21.
Fundamental Rights are guaranteed to all citizens alike, irrespective of
whether they are a numerical minority. Modern democracies are based on the
twin principles of majority rule, and protection of fundamental rights
guaranteed under Part III of the Constitution. Under the Constitutional
scheme, while the majority is  47 entitled to govern; the minorities like all
other citizens are protected by the solemn guarantees of rights and freedoms
under Part III.
The J.S. Verma Committee, in this regard, in paragraph 77 of its Report
(supra) states that: “77. We need to remember that the founding fathers of our
Constitution never thought that the Constitution is ‘mirror of perverse social
discrimination’. On the contrary, it promised the mirror in which equality
will be reflected brightly. Thus, all the sexual identities, including sexual
minorities, including transgender communities are entitled to be totally
protected. The Constitution enables change of beliefs, greater understanding
and is also an equally guaranteed instrument to secure the rights of sexually
despised minorities. ” (emphasis supplied) iii. Even though Section 377 is
facially neutral, it has been misused by subjecting members of the LGBT
community to hostile discrimination, making them vulnerable and living in fear
of the ever-present threat of prosecution on account of their sexual
orientation.
The criminalisation of “carnal intercourse against the order of nature” has
the effect of criminalising the entire class of LGBT persons  48 since any
kind of sexual intercourse in the case of such persons would be considered to
be against the “order of nature”, as per the existing interpretation.
iv. The conclusion in case of Suresh Kumar Koushal & Anr. v. Naz Foundation &
Ors. (supra) to await legislative amendments to this provision may not be
necessary. Once it is brought to the notice of the Court of any violation of
the Fundamental Rights of a citizen, or a group of citizens the Court will not
remain a mute spectator, and wait for a majoritarian government to bring about
such a change.
Given the role of this Court as the sentinel on the qui vive, it is the
Constitutional duty of this Court to review the provisions of the impugned
Section, and read it down to the extent of its inconsistency with the
Constitution. In the present case, reading down Section 377 is necessary to
exclude consensual sexual relationships between adults, whether of the  49
same sex or otherwise, in private, so as to remove the vagueness of the
provision to the extent it is inconsistent with Part III of the Constitution.
20\. History owes an apology to the members of this community and their
families, for the delay in providing redressal for the ignominy and ostracism
that they have suffered through the centuries. The members of this community
were compelled to live a life full of fear of reprisal and persecution. This
was on account of the ignorance of the majority to recognise that
homosexuality is a completely natural condition, part of a range of human
sexuality. The mis-application of this provision denied them the Fundamental
Right to equality guaranteed by Article 14. It infringed the Fundamental Right
to non-discrimination under Article 15, and the Fundamental Right to live a
life of dignity and privacy guaranteed by Article
21\. The LGBT persons deserve to live a life unshackled from the shadow of
being ‘unapprehended felons’.
21\. CONCLUSION i. In view of the aforesaid findings, it is declared that
insofar as Section 377 criminalises  50 consensual sexual acts of adults (i.e.
persons above the age of 18 years who are competent to consent) in private, is
violative of Articles 14, 15, 19, and 21 of the Constitution.
It is, however, clarified that such consent must be free consent, which is
completely voluntary in nature, and devoid of any duress or coercion. ii. The
declaration of the aforesaid reading down of Section 377 shall not, however,
lead to the re- opening of any concluded prosecutions, but can certainly be
relied upon in all pending matters whether they are at the trial, appellate,
or revisional stages.
                      iii.      The provisions of Section 377 will continue to
                                govern   non-consensual      sexual   acts   against
adults, all acts of carnal intercouse against minors, and acts of beastiality.
iv. The judgment in Suresh Kumar Koushal & Anr.
v. Naz Foundation & Ors.57 is hereby overruled for the reasons stated in
paragraph 19.
57 (2014) 1 SCC 1  51 The Reference is answered accordingly.
In view of the above findings, the Writ Petitions are allowed.
……………..……..…………………J.
(Indu Malhotra) New Delhi;
September 6, 2018.
52
persons above the age of 18 years who are competent to consent) in private, is
violative of Articles 14, 15, 19, and 21 of the Constitution.
It is, however, clarified that such consent must be free consent, which is
completely voluntary in nature, and devoid of any duress or coercion. ii. The
declaration of the aforesaid reading down of Section 377 shall not, however,
lead to the re- opening of any concluded prosecutions, but can certainly be
relied upon in all pending matters whether they are at the trial, appellate,
or revisional stages.
                      iii.      The provisions of Section 377 will continue to
                                govern   non-consensual      sexual   acts   against
adults, all acts of carnal intercouse against minors, and acts of beastiality.
iv. The judgment in Suresh Kumar Koushal & Anr.
v. Naz Foundation & Ors.57 is hereby overruled for the reasons stated in
paragraph 19.
57 (2014) 1 SCC 1  51 The Reference is answered accordingly.
In view of the above findings, the Writ Petitions are allowed.
                                       WRIT PETITION (CRIMINAL) NO. 121 OF 2018
                                                     JUDGMENT
Dipak Misra, CJI (for himself and A.M. Khanwilkar, J.) CONTENTS S. No(s).
Heading Page No(s) Signature Not Verified A. Introduction………………………………………… 3-11
Digitally signed by CHETAN KUMAR The Reference……………………………………… Date: 2018.09.06
15:12:35 IST Reason: B. 11-15  2 C. Submissions on behalf of the petitioners……
15-30 D. Submissions on behalf of the respondents and other
intervenors.………………………….… 31-44 E. Decisions in Naz Foundation and Suresh
Koushal………………..…………………………….. 45-48 F. Other judicial pronouncements on Section
377 IPC ……………………….………………………….. 48-57 G. The Constitution – an organic charter
of progressive rights………………………………… 57-64 H. Transformative constitutionalism
and the rights of LGBT community………………………. 65-74 I. Constitutional morality
and Section 377 IPC…. 74-81 J. Perspective of human dignity…………………… 81-89 K.
Sexual orientation…………………………………. 89-96 L. Privacy and its concomitant
aspects…………... 96-111 M. Doctrine of progressive realization of
rights…………………………………………………. 111-118 N. International perspective…………………………. 118
(i) United States……………………………… 118-122
(ii) Canada…………………………………….. 123-125  (iii) South Africa………………………………. 125
(iv) United Kingdom…………………………. 126-127
(v) Other Courts/Jurisdictions…………….. 127-129  3 O. Comparative analysis of
persons above the age of 18 years who are competent to consent) in private, is
violative of Articles 14, 15, 19, and 21 of the Constitution.
It is, however, clarified that such consent must be free consent, which is
completely voluntary in nature, and devoid of any duress or coercion. ii. The
declaration of the aforesaid reading down of Section 377 shall not, however,
lead to the re- opening of any concluded prosecutions, but can certainly be
relied upon in all pending matters whether they are at the trial, appellate,
or revisional stages.
                      iii.      The provisions of Section 377 will continue to
                                govern   non-consensual      sexual   acts   against
adults, all acts of carnal intercouse against minors, and acts of beastiality.
iv. The judgment in Suresh Kumar Koushal & Anr.
v. Naz Foundation & Ors.57 is hereby overruled for the reasons stated in
paragraph 19.
57 (2014) 1 SCC 1  51 The Reference is answered accordingly.
In view of the above findings, the Writ Petitions are allowed.
                                       WRIT PETITION (CRIMINAL) NO. 121 OF 2018
                                                     JUDGMENT
Dipak Misra, CJI (for himself and A.M. Khanwilkar, J.) CONTENTS S. No(s).
Heading Page No(s) Signature Not Verified A. Introduction………………………………………… 3-11
Digitally signed by CHETAN KUMAR The Reference……………………………………… Date: 2018.09.06
15:12:35 IST Reason: B. 11-15  2 C. Submissions on behalf of the petitioners……
15-30 D. Submissions on behalf of the respondents and other
intervenors.………………………….… 31-44 E. Decisions in Naz Foundation and Suresh
Koushal………………..…………………………….. 45-48 F. Other judicial pronouncements on Section
377 IPC ……………………….………………………….. 48-57 G. The Constitution – an organic charter
of progressive rights………………………………… 57-64 H. Transformative constitutionalism
and the rights of LGBT community………………………. 65-74 I. Constitutional morality
and Section 377 IPC…. 74-81 J. Perspective of human dignity…………………… 81-89 K.
Sexual orientation…………………………………. 89-96 L. Privacy and its concomitant
aspects…………... 96-111 M. Doctrine of progressive realization of
rights…………………………………………………. 111-118 N. International perspective…………………………. 118
(i) United States……………………………… 118-122
(ii) Canada…………………………………….. 123-125  (iii) South Africa………………………………. 125
(iv) United Kingdom…………………………. 126-127
(v) Other Courts/Jurisdictions…………….. 127-129  3 O. Comparative analysis of
persons above the age of 18 years who are competent to consent) in private, is
violative of Articles 14, 15, 19, and 21 of the Constitution.
It is, however, clarified that such consent must be free consent, which is
completely voluntary in nature, and devoid of any duress or coercion. ii. The
declaration of the aforesaid reading down of Section 377 shall not, however,
lead to the re- opening of any concluded prosecutions, but can certainly be
relied upon in all pending matters whether they are at the trial, appellate,
or revisional stages.
                      iii.      The provisions of Section 377 will continue to
                                govern   non-consensual      sexual   acts   against
adults, all acts of carnal intercouse against minors, and acts of beastiality.
iv. The judgment in Suresh Kumar Koushal & Anr.
v. Naz Foundation & Ors.57 is hereby overruled for the reasons stated in
paragraph 19.
57 (2014) 1 SCC 1  51 The Reference is answered accordingly.
In view of the above findings, the Writ Petitions are allowed.
                                       WRIT PETITION (CRIMINAL) NO. 121 OF 2018
                                                     JUDGMENT
Dipak Misra, CJI (for himself and A.M. Khanwilkar, J.) CONTENTS S. No(s).
Heading Page No(s) Signature Not Verified A. Introduction………………………………………… 3-11
Digitally signed by CHETAN KUMAR The Reference……………………………………… Date: 2018.09.06
15:12:35 IST Reason: B. 11-15  2 C. Submissions on behalf of the petitioners……
15-30 D. Submissions on behalf of the respondents and other
intervenors.………………………….… 31-44 E. Decisions in Naz Foundation and Suresh
Koushal………………..…………………………….. 45-48 F. Other judicial pronouncements on Section
377 IPC ……………………….………………………….. 48-57 G. The Constitution – an organic charter
of progressive rights………………………………… 57-64 H. Transformative constitutionalism
and the rights of LGBT community………………………. 65-74 I. Constitutional morality
and Section 377 IPC…. 74-81 J. Perspective of human dignity…………………… 81-89 K.
Sexual orientation…………………………………. 89-96 L. Privacy and its concomitant
aspects…………... 96-111 M. Doctrine of progressive realization of
rights…………………………………………………. 111-118 N. International perspective…………………………. 118
(i) United States……………………………… 118-122
(ii) Canada…………………………………….. 123-125  (iii) South Africa………………………………. 125
(iv) United Kingdom…………………………. 126-127
(v) Other Courts/Jurisdictions…………….. 127-129  3 O. Comparative analysis of
Section 375 and Section 377 IPC………………………………….… 129-140 P. The litmus test for
survival of Section 377 IPC…….……………………………………………… 140-156 Q.
Conclusions………………………………………… 156-166 A. Introduction Not for nothing, the great
German thinker, Johann Wolfgang von Goethe, had said, ―I am what I am, so take
me as I am‖ and similarly, Arthur Schopenhauer had pronounced, ―No one can
escape from their individuality‖. In this regard, it is profitable to quote a
few lines from John Stuart Mill:-
―But society has now fairly got the better of individuality;
and the danger which threatens human nature is not the excess, but the
deficiency of personal impulses and preferences.‖ The emphasis on the unique
being of an individual is the salt of his/her life. Denial of self-expression
persons above the age of 18 years who are competent to consent) in private, is
violative of Articles 14, 15, 19, and 21 of the Constitution.
It is, however, clarified that such consent must be free consent, which is
completely voluntary in nature, and devoid of any duress or coercion. ii. The
declaration of the aforesaid reading down of Section 377 shall not, however,
lead to the re- opening of any concluded prosecutions, but can certainly be
relied upon in all pending matters whether they are at the trial, appellate,
or revisional stages.
                      iii.      The provisions of Section 377 will continue to
                                govern   non-consensual      sexual   acts   against
adults, all acts of carnal intercouse against minors, and acts of beastiality.
iv. The judgment in Suresh Kumar Koushal & Anr.
v. Naz Foundation & Ors.57 is hereby overruled for the reasons stated in
paragraph 19.
57 (2014) 1 SCC 1  51 The Reference is answered accordingly.
In view of the above findings, the Writ Petitions are allowed.
                                       WRIT PETITION (CRIMINAL) NO. 121 OF 2018
                                                     JUDGMENT
Dipak Misra, CJI (for himself and A.M. Khanwilkar, J.) CONTENTS S. No(s).
Heading Page No(s) Signature Not Verified A. Introduction………………………………………… 3-11
Digitally signed by CHETAN KUMAR The Reference……………………………………… Date: 2018.09.06
15:12:35 IST Reason: B. 11-15  2 C. Submissions on behalf of the petitioners……
15-30 D. Submissions on behalf of the respondents and other
intervenors.………………………….… 31-44 E. Decisions in Naz Foundation and Suresh
Koushal………………..…………………………….. 45-48 F. Other judicial pronouncements on Section
377 IPC ……………………….………………………….. 48-57 G. The Constitution – an organic charter
of progressive rights………………………………… 57-64 H. Transformative constitutionalism
and the rights of LGBT community………………………. 65-74 I. Constitutional morality
and Section 377 IPC…. 74-81 J. Perspective of human dignity…………………… 81-89 K.
Sexual orientation…………………………………. 89-96 L. Privacy and its concomitant
aspects…………... 96-111 M. Doctrine of progressive realization of
rights…………………………………………………. 111-118 N. International perspective…………………………. 118
(i) United States……………………………… 118-122
(ii) Canada…………………………………….. 123-125  (iii) South Africa………………………………. 125
(iv) United Kingdom…………………………. 126-127
(v) Other Courts/Jurisdictions…………….. 127-129  3 O. Comparative analysis of
Section 375 and Section 377 IPC………………………………….… 129-140 P. The litmus test for
survival of Section 377 IPC…….……………………………………………… 140-156 Q.
Conclusions………………………………………… 156-166 A. Introduction Not for nothing, the great
German thinker, Johann Wolfgang von Goethe, had said, ―I am what I am, so take
me as I am‖ and similarly, Arthur Schopenhauer had pronounced, ―No one can
escape from their individuality‖. In this regard, it is profitable to quote a
few lines from John Stuart Mill:-
―But society has now fairly got the better of individuality;
and the danger which threatens human nature is not the excess, but the
deficiency of personal impulses and preferences.‖ The emphasis on the unique
being of an individual is the salt of his/her life. Denial of self-expression
persons above the age of 18 years who are competent to consent) in private, is
violative of Articles 14, 15, 19, and 21 of the Constitution.
It is, however, clarified that such consent must be free consent, which is
completely voluntary in nature, and devoid of any duress or coercion. ii. The
declaration of the aforesaid reading down of Section 377 shall not, however,
lead to the re- opening of any concluded prosecutions, but can certainly be
relied upon in all pending matters whether they are at the trial, appellate,
or revisional stages.
                      iii.      The provisions of Section 377 will continue to
                                govern   non-consensual      sexual   acts   against
adults, all acts of carnal intercouse against minors, and acts of beastiality.
iv. The judgment in Suresh Kumar Koushal & Anr.
v. Naz Foundation & Ors.57 is hereby overruled for the reasons stated in
paragraph 19.
57 (2014) 1 SCC 1  51 The Reference is answered accordingly.
In view of the above findings, the Writ Petitions are allowed.
