Gauhati High Court
Rajesh Prasad Gupta vs The State Of Assam And 10 Ors on 25 March, 2014
Bench: The, B.K. Sharma
                             IN THE GAUHATI HIGH COURT
       (THE HIGH COURT OF ASSAM, NAGALAND, MIZORAM AND ARUNACHAL PRADESH)
                                    WP(C) 7177/2013
                             Sri Rajesh Prasad Gupta,
                             Son of Late Bindeswari Prasad,
                             Resident of Ward No. 3, Lakhipur,
                             District - Goalpara, Assam.
                                                              ...........Petitioner.
                             -Versus-
                              1. The State of Assam, represented by the Chief
                                 Secretary, Government of Assam, Dispur,
                                 Guwahati-6.
                              2. The Additional Chief Secretary, Government
                                 of Assam, Urban Development Department,
                                 Dispur, Guwahati-6.
                              3. The Principal Secretary, Government of
                                 Assam, Urban Development Department,
if the authorities decided to remove him from the office of the Chairman after
providing him an opportunity of being heard, in my considered opinion, this
Court exercising its powers of Judicial review under Article 226 of the
Constitution of India cannot sit on appeal over the said decision so as to
substitute another decision and that too on the feeble and flimsy ground of
alleged violation of the principles of natural justice. WP(C) 7177 of 2013-CAV
Page 28 of 29
44\. For all the aforesaid reasons I do not find any merit in the writ
petition and accordingly it is dismissed. The interim order passed on
09/12/2013 stands vacated.
45\. There shall be no order as to costs.
46\. Before parting with the case records, I place on record the displeasure
of the Court in not taking any departmental action against the erring
officials indicated in the enquiry report referred to above (para 21). It is
also shocking as to how the NIT could be shown published only in one copy of
the news papers so as to avoid participation in tender process and to confine
                                 Assam, Urban Development Department,
                                 Dispur, Guwahati-6.
                              4. The Secretary, Government of Assam, Urban
                                 Development Department, Dispur, Guwahati-
                                 6.
                              5. The Deputy Secretary, Government of Assam,
                                 Urban Development Department, Dispur,
                                 Guwahati-6.
                              6. The Under Secretary, Government of Assam,
                                 Urban Development Department, Dispur,
                                 Guwahati-6.
                              7. The Secretary, Government of Assam,
                                 Planning & Development Department, Dispur,
                                 Guwahati-6.
                              8. The Secretary, Government of Assam, Town &
                                 Country   Planning   Department,    Dispur,
                                 Guwahati-6.
                              9. The Secretary, Government of Assam,
                                 Municipal Administration Department, Dispur,
                                 Guwahati-6.
                              10. The Deputy Commissioner, Goalpara, District
                                  - Goalpara, Assam.
    WP(C) 7177 of 2013-CAV                                       Page 1 of 29
                                  11. The Circle Officer, Lakhipur Circle, PO -
                                     Lakhipur, Goalpara, Assam.
                                 12. Begum Aleya Ahmed, W/o. Jillaur Rahman
                                     Ahmed, Village- Natun Bazar, Lakhipur Town,
                                     Ward No.3, P.O. Lakhipur, District- Goalpara,
                                     Assam.
                                 13. Honufa Begum, wife of Hazarat Ali, Village-
                                     Manashpara, Lakhipur Town, Ward No.1, P.O.
                                     Lakhipur, District- Goalpara, Assam.
                                 14. Subal Rabha, S/o. Late Sushil Rabha, Village-
                                     Haluapara, Ward No. 4, PO- Lakhipur, District
                                     - Goalpara, Assam.
                                                                 ..........Respondents
BEFORE THE HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE B.K. SHARMA For the petitioner : Mr. P.K.
Goswami, Sr. Adv.
Mr. M. Bhuyan, Adv.
Mr. J. Deka, Adv.
Mr. T.K. Bhuyan, Adv.
For the Respondents : Mr. B.J. Talukdar, GA, Assam, Mr. M.K. Choudhury, Sr.
Adv.
Mr. M. Khan, Adv, Mr. A.M. Buzarbaruah, Adv.
Mr. P.K. Talukdar, Adv, Mr. J. Rahman, Adv.
    Date of hearing          :               13/03/2014
    Date of Judgement :                        25/03/2014.
                             JUDGEMENT AND ORDER (CAV)
1\. The petitioner is aggrieved by his removal as the Chairman of Lakhipur
Town Committee, Goalpara as per the provisions of Section 28 of the Assam
Municipal Act, 1956. Such removal vide Annexure-22 notification dated
03/1/2013 of the Government of Assam in the Urban Development (T) Department
under the signature of the Additional WP(C) 7177 of 2013-CAV Page 2 of 29
Chief Secretary was preceded by the Annexure-20 show cause notice dated
06/09/2013. For a ready reference, the show cause notice and the order of
removal, both impugned in the writ petition are reproduced below :-
> "GOVERNMENT OF ASSAM URBAN DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT DISPUR :: GUWAHATI-6 No.
> UDD(T)210/2012/66 Dated Dispur the 6th September, 2013.
                             From :      Sri S.K. Das,
                                         Under Secretary to the Govt. of
                                         Assam,       Urban  Development
                                         Department.
                             To     :    The Chairman,
                                         Lakhipur Town Committee,
                                         Goalpara, Assam - 783129.
> Sub : Show cause under the provision of sub-
> section (3) of section 28 of the Assam Municipal Act, 1956.
> Ref : Enquiry in connection with Anomalies in Lakhipur Town Committee.
> Sir, With reference to above, you are given an opportunity to explain as to
> why action shall not be initiated against you under sub- section (3) of
> Section 28 of Assam Municipal Act, 1956 for the following charges.
> 1\. You did not advertise the advertisement for the NLCPR project for an
> amount of Rs. 14.15 crore in two local daily newspaper which was required to
> be published under the guidelines. You tried to manipulate the advertisement
> by collecting one copy with the alleged advertisement in two news papers,
> namely, Assam Post and Dainik Agradoot.
> 2\. It is found that the Lakhipur Town Committee executes works without
> following the Govt. guidelines of paper advertisement and website
> advertisement.
> 3\. As you did not advertise the tenders in the News paper, therefore you
> have violated the Govt. Guidelines.
WP(C) 7177 of 2013-CAV Page 3 of 29
> 4\. It is also found that you are not executing schemes as per Govt.
> guidelines and that too without proper supervision of schemes.
> Hence you are charged with persistently omitting or refusing to carry out or
> disobeying the provisions of the Act and the Rules thereunder or lawful
> orders.
> You are hereby asked to show cause as to why you should not be removed from
> the office of the Chairmanship of Lakhipur Town Committee under the
> circumstances mentioned above.
> You should submit reply to the undersigned within 15 days from the date of
> receipt of the letter.
> Yours faithfully, Sd/- Illegible Under Secretary to the Govt. of Assam,
> Urban Development Department."
> GOVERNMENT OF ASSAM URBAN DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT DISPUR :: GUWAHATI-6 ORDERS
> BY THE GOVERNOR NOTIFICATION Dated, Dispur the 3rd December, 2013 No.
> UDD(T)210/2012/104 : On the basis of an enquiry conducted by Dr. U.N. Bora,
> IAS, Secretary to the Govt. of Assam, Urban Development Department regarding
> anomalies in advertisement for tender process of NLCPR project at Lakhipur,
> Goalpara, a show cause notice was issued to Chairman, Lakhipur Town
> Committee vide this Department's letter No. UDD(T)210/2012/66 dtd.
> 6.09.2013. The reply to the show cause was received from Chairman, Lakhipur
> Town Committee vide letter No. LTC.26/2013/2 dtd. 18.10.2013, but the reply
> was not found to be satisfactory. Hence, the Governor of Assam is pleased to
> remove Sri Rajesh Prasad Gupta, Chairman, Lakhipur Town Committee from the
> post of Chairman, Lakhipur Town Committee as per Section 28 of the Assam
> Municipal Act, 1956.
> The Deputy Commissioner, Goalpara is asked to give charge of Executive
> Officer to Circle Officer, Lakhipur Circle (Goalpara).
WP(C) 7177 of 2013-CAV Page 4 of 29
> This order will come into force with immediate effect.
> Sd/-
> (V.B. Pyarelal) Additional Chief Secretary to the Govt. of Assam, Urban
> Development Department."
2\. According to the petitioner, the aforesaid action on the part of the
respondents is arbitrary, illegal, irrational and un-constitutional. The
petitioner has alleged violation of Principles of Natural justice as the copy
of the enquiry report on the basis of which the impugned action has been taken
was not furnished to him. It is the further case of the petitioner that the
allegations made against him in the show cause notice are all ill-founded and
not based on records.
3\. The petitioner is the elected Chairman of Lakhipur Town Committee,
Goalpara. he was elected as such in his capacity as elected Commissioner of
the said Town Committee consisting of 4 (four) Wards. Earlier, the respondent
no. 14 was elected as the Chairman of the Committee on 24/09/2009 but
subsequently he was removed from his office by a resolution of the Board.
Thereafter the petitioner was elected as the Chairman vide resolution dated
06/03/2012.
4\. In paragraph 4 of the writ petition, the petitioner has stated about the
Central Govt. projects, namely, Construction of 4 Nos. road including box
culverts and pukka drainage in Lakhipur town for which financial assistance is
to be given by the Central Government under Non Lapsable Central Pool of
Resources (hereinafter for short NLCPR) and the same is required to be
implemented by the State Government. The cost involved in the said project is
Rs. 1424.77 lakhs. After observing the due formalities towards implementation
of the project, as claimed in the writ petition, the Executive Committee of
WP(C) 7177 of 2013-CAV Page 5 of 29 the Town Committee in its meeting held on
11/04/2013 authorized the petitioner in his capacity as the Chairman to float
tenders and also to do other consequential administrative acts as per
departmental rules and regulations.
5\. As stated in the writ petition, in terms of the aforesaid resolution, the
petitioner vide order dated 16/05/2013 ordered the Head Assistant/Assistant
Engineer to prepare the tender following the instructions. Accordingly, press
notice inviting tender dated 16/05/2013 was issued by the petitioner and the
copies of the same were forwarded to various authorities including the
Director of Information and Public Relation (herein after for short DIPR),
Government of Assam, requesting to arrange publication of the press notice in
one widely circulated English daily and another in Assamese Daily.
6\. Referring to the Annexure-8 letter dated 18/05/2013, it is the case of the
petitioner that pursuant to the said request made to the Director, IPR,
requested the Advertisement Manager to publish the enclosed advertisement/
notification in the newspaper. It is the claim of the petitioner that the NIT
was published on the issue of the English Daily newspaper "The Assam Post" on
19/05/2013 and also in the issue of Assamese Daily newspaper "Dainik Agradoot"
on 19/05/2013. In paragraph 11 of the writ petition, the petitioner has stated
- "The copies of the aforesaid newspapers collected by the petitioner from a
vendor substantiate publication of the advertisement". The petitioner has also
referred to the certificate dated 28/05/2013 issued by the Liaison Officer,
Advertisement Section of DIPR certifying publication of the NIT in the
newspaper.
7\. As disclosed in the writ petition, one Anisur Rahman lodged an FIR with
the Lakhipur Police Station and pursuant to the same, the Police personnel
conducted an enquiry relating to the said NIT and in WP(C) 7177 of 2013-CAV
Page 6 of 29 presence of a Magistrate, copies of the tender documents
including the said two newspapers containing the NIT had been seized from the
office of the petitioner on 27/05/2013. According to the petitioner he has
cooperated with the investigation of the case.
8\. In paragraph 14 of the writ petition, the petitioner has staed that "Due
to such un-expected development, the petitioner vide notice dated 27/05/2013
postponed the tender process for the aforesaid NLCPR scheme". In paragraph 15,
16 and 17 of the writ petition, the petitioner has referred to the Writ
Petition being WP(C) No. 2964/2013 filed by 3 (three) petitioners against the
NIT dated 16/05/2013 referred to above with the prayer to hold a fresh tender
process. In the said writ petition, an interim order was passed on 28/05/2013
staying the NIT process. Seeking vacation of the said interim order, the
petitioner filed an application under Article 226(3) of the Constitution of
India. The Town Committee also filed its affidavit-in-opposition controverting
the allegations made in the writ petition. The writ petition was disposed of
on 27/06/2013 in view of the stand of the Town Committee that fresh tender
process would be initiated abandoning the earlier tender process. For a ready
reference, the said paragraphs 15, 16 and 17 are reproduced below :-
> "15. That, three persons, namely, Rajib Ahmed, Muslim Ali and Mir Nasiruddin
> Ahmed as Petitioners filed a writ petition before the Hon'ble Gauhati High
> Court being WP(C) No. 2964/2013 praying for setting aside and quashing the
> Press NIT dated 16/05/13 and to hold a tender process as per guideline along
> with an interim prayer for stay. In the said case, apart from the State of
> Assam and Union of Assam, the Principal Secretary, Govt. of Assam, Planning
> and Development Department; the Director, Town and Country Planning, Assam ;
> the Director, Municipal Administration WP(C) 7177 of 2013-CAV Page 7 of 29
> Department, Assam ; the Deputy Director, Town and Country Planning, Goalpra
> ; the Director, Information and Public Relation Department, Assam, Dispur ;
> the Deputy Commissioner, Goalpara; and the Chairman, Lakhipur Town Committee
> , Goalpara were made parties as the Respondents. The Hon'ble Court vide
> Order dated 28/05/13 was pleased to pass an interim order and vide Order
> dated 07.06.13 was pleased to extend the interim order dated 28.05.13.
                             16.     That,     the     petitioner     has     filed   an
                             application       under      Article    226(3)     of    the
> Constitution of India for vacation, modification, cancellation and/ or
> alteration of the interim order dated 28.05.13 and extension of interim
> order vide order dated 07.06.13 passed in WP(C) No. 1964/2013 by the Hon'ble
> High Court, which was registered as Misc. Case No. 1807/2013. On the same
> day, i.e. on 26.06.13, the Lakhipur Town Committee, Goalpara has also filed
> an Affidavit-in-opposition controverting the allegations made in the
> aforesaid writ petition. The petitioner craves leave of the Hon'ble Court to
> call for the record of WP(C) No. 2964/2013 as and when requires.
> 17\. That, thereafter, the Hon'ble Court after hearing the counsel for the
> parties, vide order dated 27.06.13 was pleased to dispose of the aforesaid
> writ petition. It is pertinent to mention herein that in the said order
> dated 27.06.13, the Hon'ble High Court has not recorded any anomalies on
> inviting tender by the Chairman, Lakhipur Town Committee, Goalpara, though
> some allegations were leveled in the said writ petition. Rather, the Hon'ble
> High Court has observed that the fresh tender shall be undertaken by the
> Lakhipur Town WP(C) 7177 of 2013-CAV Page 8 of 29 Committee, Goalpara
> through laid down procedure such as publication in the newspaper, etc."
9\. In paragraph 19 of the writ petition, the petitioner has stated about the
telephonic information received by him from the Secretary, Urban Development
Department about the enquiry to be conducted on 23/07/2013 at Lakhipur asking
him to be present at Goalpara Circuit House. As per the said direction, the
petitioner presented himself in the enquiry on 23/07/2013 and also answered
the queries made to him relating the aforesaid advertisement for NLCPR
project. When the matter rested thus, the petitioner was issued with the
Annexure-20 show cause notice referred to above followed by the impugned
notification dated 03/12/2013. Responding to the show cause notice the
petitioner submitted his annexure-21 reply. In the reply, the petitioner
contended that he was prejudiced because of non-furnishing of the enquiry
report. However, he denied the charges. As regards the publication of the NIT
in the newspaper, as in the writ petition in the reply also he maintained the
stand that the NIT was published in the aforesaid two newspapers and that the
copies of the same were collected by him.
10\. From the above narration of fact, the plea of the petitioner is that the
NIT was published in the newspapers and he had initiated the tender process as
per law and the guidelines hold the field and thus there could not have been
any allegation of non-publication of the advertisement involving the work of
Rs. 14.15 crores. However, as regards the allegation of non-publication of the
NIT in the Website, the petitioner did not furnish any satisfactory reply.
11\. Referring to the aforesaid facts, it is the case of the petitioner that
since he proceeded with the matter relating to the tender process upon
authorization and no illegality was committed by him in the WP(C) 7177 of
2013-CAV Page 9 of 29 affairs of the Town Committee, as he followed the
Government guidelines, the impugned action on the part of the respondents is
illegal. As noted above, he has also raised the plea of violation of the
principles of natural justice as he was not furnished with the copy of the
enquiry report.
12\. The writ petition has been resisted by the respondents, both official and
private. In the affidavit-in-opposition filed by the official respondents, it
has been contended that the enquiry that was conducted against the petitioner
revealed that contrary to the stand of the petitioner that the NIT was
published in 2 newspapers, the same was never published in any newspaper. The
NIT was found inserted in 2 (two) copies of the newspapers produced by the
petitioner. It has also been stated that the petitioner was responsible for
violation of Govt. guidelines in implementing the Govt. schemes. In paragraph
5 of the counter affidavit it is the categorical stand of the official
respondents that the petitioner with the aid of the officials of the DIPR
manipulated the advertisement in respect of the NIT for the aforesaid NLCPR
project, which in fact, were not published in the regular issues of the two
newspapers. As regards the prejudice in the enquiry and / or non-furnishing of
the copy of the enquiry report, the stand of the official respondents is that
due opportunity was given to the petitioner to place his case in the enquiry.
Along with the affidavit, the report of the enquiry under the signature of the
Secretary to the Government of Assam in the Urban Development Department dated
07/08/2013 has been enclosed.
13\. In the reply affidavit filed by the petitioner against the said counter
affidavit he has reiterated the stand in the writ petition. Along with the
said reply affidavit the petitioner has also enclosed the copy of the WP(C)
No. 2964/2013 referred to above and also the affidavit-in-opposition that was
filed by the petitioner. In the WP(C) 7177 of 2013-CAV Page 10 of 29
affidavit-in-opposition filed by the respondent No. 10, Extra Assistant
Commissioner, Goalpara, the stand of the official respondents has been
reiterated.
14\. I have heard Mr. P.K. Goswami, learned Senior counsel assisted by Mr. M.
Bhuyan, Mr. J. Deka, Mr. T. K. Bhuyan, learned counsel for the petitioner.
Also heard Mr. B.J. Talukdar, learned State Counsel representing the official
respondents. Mr. M.K. Choudhury, learned senior counsel assisted by Mr. M.
Khan, Mr. A.M. Buzarbaruah, Mr. P.K. Talukdar, Mr. J. Rahman, learned counsel
argued on behalf of the private respondents. I have also considered the entire
materials including the records produced by Shri Nripendra Nath Das, SI of
Police, Lakhipur Police Station and my findings and conclusions are as
follows.
15\. As to what are the allegations against the petitioner and what is the
stand of the petitioner against the same have been noted above. Mr. P.K.
Goswami, learned counsel for the petitioner placing reliance on the decisions
of the Apex Court reported in (1969) 3 SCC 868 (M/s. Travancore Rayon Ltd. Vs.
Union of India) ; (1975) 1 SCC 70 (M/s. Erusian Equipment & Chemicals Ltd. Vs.
State of West Bengal and another) ; (1978) 1 SCC 405 (Mohinder Singh Gill and
another Vs. The Chief Election Commissioner, New Delhi and others) ; (1980) 4
SCC 379 (S.L. Kapoor Vs. Jagmohan and others) ; (1981) 1 SCC 664 (Swadeshi
Cotton Mills Vs. Union of India); AIR 1973 SC 834 (State of Punjab Vs.
Khaushal Singh) and (1963) 14 C.B. (NS) 180 (Cooper V. The Wandsworth Board of
Works), emphasized on the need for providing adequate opportunity of being
heard before passing any adverse order. According to him, the materials that
were used against the petitioner having not been disclosed to him enabling him
to meet the same, there has been gross violation of the principles of natural
justice towards taking the impugned action against the petitioner. The WP(C)
7177 of 2013-CAV Page 11 of 29 decisions on which he has placed reliance and
referred to above are all on the principles whirling around the principles
relating to natural justice.
16\. Countering the above argument, both Mr. M.K. Choudhury and Mr. A.M.
Buzarbaruah, learned counsel representing the private respondents submitted
that while there is no quarrel relating to the law laid down by the Apex Court
in respect of the principles of natural justice, but the same is not a
straight jacket formula. According to them the petitioner having been given
due participation in the enquiry to project his version of the case, there was
substantial compliance of the right to be heard. As regards the alleged non-
furnishing of the copy of the enquiry report, they have contended that when
the petitioner could furnish an affective reply to the show cause notice
without the copy of the said enquiry report, no prejudice was caused to his
defence.
17\. While Mr. Choudhury, learned counsel for the private respondent has
specifically referred to the above quoted statement made in paragraphs 15, 16
and 17 of the writ petition with the argument that there is suppression of
material fact on the part of the petitioner in not disclosing the police case
that has been registered against him in respect of the NIT in question, Mr.
Buzarbaruah, referring to the decision in the S.L. Kapoor Vs. Jagmohan and
others reported in (1980) 4 SCC 379 submitted that considering the nature of
the enquiry that was conducted against the petitioner, non- furnishing of the
copy of the enquiry report did not result in any violation of the principles
of natural justice. In paragraph 11 of the said judgement, the Apex Court has
made the following observation :-
"11. Another submission of the learned Attorney General was that Sec. 238(1)
also contemplated emergent situations where swift WP(C) 7177 of 2013-CAV Page
12 of 29 action might be necessary to avert disaster and that in such
situations if the demands of natural justice were to be met, the very object
of the provision would be frustrated. It is difficult to visualise the sudden
and calamitous situations gloomily foreboded by the learned Attorney General
where there would not be enough breathing time to observe natural justice, at
least in a rudimentary way. A Municipal Committee under the Punjab Municipal
Act is a public body consisting of both officials and non-officials and one
cannot imagine anything momentous being done in a matter of minutes and
seconds. And, natural justice may always be tailored to the situation. Minimal
natural justice, the barest notice and the `littlest' opportunity, in the
shortest time, may serve. The authority acting under Sec.
238(1) is the master of its own procedure.
There need be no oral hearing. It is not necessary to put every detail of the
case to the Committee: broad grounds sufficient to indicate the substance of
the allegations may be given.
We do not think that even minimal natural justice is excluded when alleged
grave situations arise under Sec. 238. If indeed such grave situations arise,
the public interest can be sufficiently protected by appropriate prohibitory
and mandatory action under the other relevant provisions of the statute in
Sections 232 to 235 of the Act. We guard ourselves against being understood as
laying down any proposition of universal application. Other statutes providing
for speedy action to meet emergent situations may well be construed as
excluding the principle audi alteram partem. All that we say is that Sec.
238(1) of the Punjab Municipal Act does not."
WP(C) 7177 of 2013-CAV Page 13 of 29
18\. What the petitioner has not disclosed in the writ petition filed on
06/12/2013 is vital fact of registration of a police case against him and
others vide Lakhipur PS Case No. 265/2013. On perusal of the case records
produced by Shri Nripendra Nath Das, SI of Police of Lakhipur PS, it appears
that the petitioner was arrested in connection with the said case and
eventually on the basis of bail application being BA No. 9/2013 made under
Section 439 Cr.P.C., the petitioner was allowed to go on bail in connection
with the said Lakhipur PS Case No. 265/2013 under Section
120(B)/465/468/471/420/409 IPC. While granting the bail on 06/01/2014, the
petitioner's custody since 31/12/2013 was referred to and the bail was granted
considering the fact that the case against the petitioner is based on
documents which are in custody of the Police. The petitioner has not even
obliquely stated about the said fact of registration of the FIR against him ad
also the subsequent developments in his reply affidavit filed on 21/02/2014,
although he has referred to the earlier writ petition being WP(C) No.
28643/2013, filed by the 3 petitioners against the NIT in question.
19\. All throughout the proceeding including the proceeding in the said writ
petition being WP(C) No. 2964/2013, the petitioner has justified his action in
respect of the NIT in question. The fact of the matter is that both the
newspapers have denied issuance of any NIT in their issues published on
19/05/2013. In the writ petition the petitioner has annexed the copies of the
newspapers i.e. the Assam Post and Dainik Agradoot, both dated 19/05/2013 to
justify that the same were published in the said two newspapers. When the
matter was taken up on 04/03/2014, the following order was passed.
> "4/3/2014 Heard-in-part. Further hearing on 13.3.2014.
WP(C) 7177 of 2013-CAV Page 14 of 29
> In the meantime, Mr. B.J. Talukdar, learned State Counsel shall obtain the
> present status report in respect of Lakhipur P.S. Case No. 265/2013. As per
> the averments made in the writ petition (paragraph-13), on the basis of the
> FIR lodged before the O/C, Lakhipur Police Station, the police personnel
> enquired into the matter and in presence of a Magistrate, copies of the
> tender document and related papers along with copy of the newspapers dated
> 19.5.2013 have been seized from the office of the petitioner on 27.5.2013.
> The said two newspapers are Assam Post and Dainik Agradoot, both dated
> 19.5.2013. As per the assertion made by the petitioner, the tender notice
> annexed to the writ petition were published in the said two issues of Dainik
> Agradoot and Assam Post on 19.5.2013, in fact, he has annexed the
> photocopies of the same certifying the same to be the true copies as
> Annexure-9 and 10. On the other hand, the authorities of both the newspaper
> have clarified that no such NIT was issued on the issues dated 19.5.2013.
> Mr. Talukdar, the learned State Counsel may also get the records of the
> aforesaid P.S. Case along with the above referred documents. It will be
> appropriate for the Lakhipur Police Station to depute one responsible
> officer along with the records.
> Let a copy of this order be furnished to Mr. B.J. Talukdar, learned State
> Counsel for his communication with the Lakhipur Police State.
> By the next date fixed, the Government of Assam in the Urban Development
> Department shall apprise this Court as to what action they have been taken
> against the Director of DIPR and the Liaison Officer, against whom there is
> adverse remarks in the enquiry report.
> List again on 13.3.2014."
WP(C) 7177 of 2013-CAV Page 15 of 29
> (Emphasis added)
> 20\. As recorded in the said order dated 04/03/2014, the authorities of both
> the newspaper having clarified that the NIT said to have been published in
> their newspapers, was in fact not published on the issue dated 19/05/2013
> and for that in no other issues. It was in such circumstances, Mr. B.J.
> Talukdar, learned State Counsel was directed to produce the records of
> Lakhipur PS Case NO. 265/2013. As per the enquiry report enclosed to the
> counter affidavit filed by the official respondents also, no newspaper
> advertisement was issued for the NIT.
Further, as per the enquiry report also, the NIT was not advertised in the
newspaper. In the enquiry, the statement of the petitioner was recorded. As
per the statement he had received the newspapers containing the NIT
advertisement from a Howker whom he did not know.
21\. The enquiry was conducted in public in presence of the petitioner and
other members. As many as 7 (seven) organizations submitted complaints against
the petitioner with the following allegations :-
> "1. Misappropriation of Government/public money without publishing any
> advertisement in newspaper.
> 2\. Construction of the same road in Lakhipur (Basic LP school road) under
> the head Finance Commission and also under SJSRY.
> 3\. Misappropriation of Rs. 10.50 lacs (ten lacs fifty thousand) for earth
> filling works of Lakhipur market area. The scheme was executed under TFC
> 06-07 and SJSRY 10-11.
> 4\. Pocket tendering for the work Khogan Bose House to Ex. MLA house at a
> cost of Rs. 26 lacs.
WP(C) 7177 of 2013-CAV Page 16 of 29
> 5\. Misappropriation of money in the construction of Mozzid ali road and
> Bamunpara public tank Rs. 20 lacs.
> 6\. Pocket tender of 4th Finance Commission grant work for an amount of Rs.
> 19467000/-.
> 7\. Misappropriation of money in Water Supply and Drainage schemes and cover
> slabs were not done fully.
> 8\. Change of contractor in the UIDSSMT schemes for an amount of Rs.
> 26418000/-.
> 9\. Misappropriation of Rs. 5 lacs under DRGF 9-10-Haluapara Gadang Rava
> Chariali to Kajai Shaheb house.
> 10\. Non publication of advertisement for the NLCPR 2012-2013 project for an
> amount of Rs. 1415.17 lacs."
22\. On conclusion of the enquiry the following findings have been recorded.
> "1. News paper advertisement for the NLCPR project for an amount of Rs. 14
> crore 15 lacs was not published in the Assam Post and Dainik Agradut, one
> copy of each was collected in the office of the Town Committee and DIPR
> which was seized by police for forensic examination. The Chairman, the DIPR
> and the Liaison Officer are responsible for the same and necessary action
> may be initiated against them.
> 2\. It was also found that the Lakhipur Town Committee executes works not
> following the government guidelines of paper advertisement and website
> advertisement.
> 3\. It was also found that the schemes were not executed as per Government
> guidelines and the Chairman, Jr. Engineer and Asstt. Engineer of Lakhipur
> Town Committee along with the Asstt. Engineer from head office (DMA, Shri S.
> Das) who is to supervise the schemes are responsible for these lapses."
WP(C) 7177 of 2013-CAV Page 17 of 29
23\. From the above and not denied by the petitioner, the shocking revelation
is that although, in fact, the NIT advertisement was not published in two
newspapers, but it was shown published in the copies which came into
possession of the petitioner. In the records produced by the said SI of
Police, there are 4 (four) copies of newspapers, 2 (two) each of the Assamese
Daily Dainik Agradoot and the English Daily The Assam Post. Be it stated here
that although as per the requisition made, the NIT was to be published in the
much circulated English daily newspaper The Assam Tribune but was shown
published in the lesser known (virtually not known) English daily newspaper
The Assam Post.
24\. In the English newspaper of the issue of 19/05/2013 seized from the
petitioner, the NIT advertisement finds place at page 8. When compared with
the real one, no such advertisement is found. Same is the case with the
Assamese newspaper, when in the copy seized from the petitioner, the
advertisement is found at page 8 but in the actual copy, there is no such
advertisement. The records have revealed that the matter was referred to the
Forensic Science Laboratory and in the opinion rendered by it on 27/11/2013,
it has been stated thus :-
> "GOVERNMENT OF ASSAM DIRECTORATE OF FORENSIC SCIENCE :: ASSAM KAHILIPARA :
> GUWAHATI To The Superintendent of Police, Goalpara, Assam.
> OPINION DFS/QDS:DFS/ODS-143/2013 DATEED 27/11/2013 The documents in
> connection with Lakhipur PS Case No. 265/13 U/S 120(B)/465/468/471/420/40
> IPC have been carefully and thoroughly examined with the help of scientific
> instruments such as WP(C) 7177 of 2013-CAV Page 18 of 29 Docucenter 3000,
> VSC 5000, VSC 6000 etc. under different lighting system.
> 2\. The contents of the News item heading "France opposes Syria conference"
> appearing in the  News paper "The Assam Post" at page No. 8 bearing marking
> A1 dated 19/5/2013 when compared with the corresponding News item heading
> "France opposes Syria conference" and Press Notice Inviting Tender appearing
> in the News paper "The Assam Post" bearing marking Q1 and Q2 dated 19/5/2013
> reveals the following features :-
> i) In the blue enclosed part Marked A1 only the news item head "France
> opposes Syria conference" as published in the available space.
> ii) In the red enclosed part marked Q1 and Q2, two news items namely "France
> opposes Syria conference" and a Press Notice Inviting Tender were published
> in the same available space.
> iii) On rational comparison of above two news items bearing the markings A1
> and Q1 and Q2 it has been found that some positions of the original news
> items bearing marking A1 (originally marked M.R. 57/13) deleted and
> recomposed to accommodate the news item press notice inviting tender bearing
> the marking Q2 which was not published in the news paper originally marked
> MR No. 61/13.
> 3\. The news items marked A2 to A4 of MR No. 58/13 and A5 to A7 of MR No.
> 76/13 appearing in the Assamese Agradoot News paper dated 19/5/2013 at page
> No.8 which are similar to each other when compared with the news items
> marked Q3 and Q4 of MR No. 57/13 reveals the following features :
> i) In the blue enclosed part marked A 2 to A4 or A5 to A7, the news items
> heading "Aji Badla Atar Janma utsab", "Oinor namot parikha" (in WP(C) 7177
> of 2013-CAV Page 19 of 29 Assamese language) and "corrigendum" respectively
> were published in the available space.
> ii) In the red enclosed part marked Q3 and Q4 two news items, one regarding
> press notice inviting tender and another one corrigendum were published in
> the same available space.
> iii) On rational comparison of the two sets of news items it has been
> observed that the news items in the blue enclosed marked A2 and A4 or A5 and
> A6 have been replaced by the news item Q3 and subsequently the news items
> marked A2, A3 or A5, A6 have been shifted to other place on the same page by
> recomposition.
> Sd/- 27/11/2013 DR. (MS) TILAKA DAS, M.Sc. Ph.D.
> Deputy Director, Questioned Documents Division, Directorate of Forensic
> Science Assam, Kahilipara, Guwahati-19."
25\. From the above, there is absolutely no manner of doubt that there has
been manipulations in the respective pages of the two newspapers so as to show
publication of the same only on the issues found in possession of the
petitioner. Although the petitioner has denied his hand in such manipulation
but in the normal circumstances, a presumption can be drawn against him. While
it is true that the matter is under investigation of the Police and as
submitted during the course of hearing by the SI of Police, who was present in
the Court, charge sheet is likely to be submitted without much delay. No
opinion is expressed in this regard lest the same would cause prejudice to the
likely defence of the petitioner.
26\. As regards the allegation of non-publication of the NIT in the website, a
feeble submission was made during the course of hearing that in absence of
infrastructure and irregular electricity supply, the advertisement could not
be published in the website but neither in the show cause reply nor in the
writ petition, no such defence is found. WP(C) 7177 of 2013-CAV Page 20 of 29
Even if such a defence is advanced, same is hardly tenable for two reasons,
firstly, in case of any difficulty the petitioner ought to have informed the
authority about the same and secondly he could have arranged up-loading of the
same through other arrangement and the same is not a difficult task.
27\. This now leads us to the whole basis of the claim of the petitioner that
he was deprived of the reasonable opportunity of being heard as he was not
provided with the hearing and not furnished with the copy of the enquiry
report. As is evident from the enquiry report annexed to the counter
affidavit, the petitioner was provided with the opportunity of being heard
with due association in the enquiry proceeding and his statement was also
recorded as follows to which there is no denial on the part of the petitioner.
"1) Shri Rajesh Prasad Gupta, Chairman Lakhipur Town Committee deposed that he
sent a letter to Director of Public Relation for advertisement in the news
paper. He also informed that he received a copy of the newspaper where the
advertisement was shown as published. The certificate of advertisement was
received from Liaison Officer DIPR office. When he was asked about where from
the copy of the news paper showing the advertisement was found. He informed
that it was seized by Lakhipur Police. When he was asked about how he received
copy of news paper for the advertisement whereas the general public did not
get, Shri Gupta informed that it was received from a hoker whom he did not
know.
On querry he informed that he did not checkup other news papers. He informed
that he was new in his job and did not know that it had to be checked up. From
the above its appears that the news was not published in the newspapers, which
was also informed by the office of the WP(C) 7177 of 2013-CAV Page 21 of 29
news paper. Hence the Chairman must be involved in the process of manipulating
the advertisement. Website advertisement was also not done."
28\. As per the aforesaid statement the petitioner received a copy of the
newspaper containing the copy of the NIT advertisement from a Howker but both
in the writ petition as well as in the show cause reply he has stated that
copies of the newspapers had been collected by him from a Vendor. Be that as
it may, the petitioner ought to have disclosed in the writ petition filed on
06/12/2013 about the state of affairs relating to the NIT in question. The
fact that an FIR was lodged involving the petitioner and there was police
investigation pursuant to registration of case against him and he was also
arrested with eventual granting of bail, has not been disclosed in the writ
petition or in the reply affidavit.
29\. In the challenge to the NIT IN WP(C) No. 2694/2013, the specific
allegation was about non-publication of the NIT advertisement in the
newspapers. The petitioner tried to justify the fictitious newspapers
containing the NIT advertisement in the affidavit-in- opposition filed against
the said writ petition. Not only that, he also tried to vacate the interim
order operating in the said proceeding by filling an application under Article
226(3) of the Constitution of India. Merely because fresh tender process was
initiated abandoning the earlier NIT in question and taking note of the same
the writ petition was disposed of, the same cannot absolve the petitioner from
the allegations made against him.
30\. The plea of violation of the principles of natural justice will have to
be considered in the light of the revelation of facts which were known to the
petitioner but not disclosed in the writ petition. The copy of the enquiry
report is very much a part of the counter WP(C) 7177 of 2013-CAV Page 22 of 29
affidavit filed by the respondents. In the reply affidavit filed by the
petitioner to the said counter affidavit, apart from harping on the point of
non-furnishing of the copy of the enquiry report, the petitioner has not
denied the stand of the respondents in the said counter affidavit nor the
findings recorded in the said enquiry report including his recorded statement
in the said enquiry report.
31\. The test of prejudice in the context of violation of the principles of
natural justice will have to be considered keeping in mind that the principles
of natural justice are but the means to achieve the ends of justice and that
they cannot be perverted to achieve the very opposite end. That would a
counter-productive exercise. In All Mehdawi V. Secy of State for the Home
Deptt reported in (1990) 1 AC 876, the House of Lords (Par Lord Bridge)
observed thus :-
> "A party to the dispute who has lost the opportunity to have his case heard
> through the default of his own advisers to whom he has entrusted the conduct
> of the dispute on his behalf cannot complain that he has been the victim of
> the procedural impropriety or that natural justice has been denied to him."
32\. In Malloch Vs. Aberdeen Corpn reported in (1971) 2 ALL ER 1278, the House
of Lords (Par Lord Reid) observed thus :-
> ".......it was argued that to have afforded a hearing to the appellant
> before dismissing him would have been a useless formality because whatever
> he might have said could have made no difference. If that could be clearly
> demonstrated it might be a good answer."
> ( Emphasis supplied)
> 33\. Lord Guest not only agreed with the above observation but also applied
> the test of prejudice with the following observation :-
WP(C) 7177 of 2013-CAV Page 23 of 29
> "A great many arguments might have been put forward but if none of them had
> any chance of success then I can see no good reason why the respondents
> should have given the appellant a hearing, nor can I see that he was
> prejudiced in any way."
> 34\. Lord Wilberforce II stated the principle in the following words :-
> "The appellant has first to show that his position was such that he had, in
> principle, a right to make representations before a decision against him was
> taken. But to show this is not necessarily enough, unless he can also show
> that if admitted to state his case he had a case of substance to make. A
> breach of procedure, whether called a failure of natural justice, or an
> essential administrative fault, cannot give him a remedy in the courts,
> unless behind it there is something of substance which has been list by the
> failure. The court does not act in vain."
> 35\. In K.L. Tripathy Vs. State Bank of India reported in (1984) 1 SCC 43,
> the Apex Court observed thus :-
> "The basic concept is fair play in action administrative, judicial or quasi
> judicial. The concept of fair play in action must depend upon the particular
> lis, if there be any, between the parties. If the credibility of a person
> who has testified or given some information is in doubt, or if the version
> or the statement of the person who has testified, is, in dispute, right of
> cross- examination must inevitably form part of fair play in action but
> where there is no lis regarding the facts but certain explanation of the
> circumstances there is no requirement of cross-examination to be fulfilled
> to justify fair WP(C) 7177 of 2013-CAV Page 24 of 29 play in action. When on
> the question of facts there was no dispute, no real prejudice has been
> caused to a party aggrieved by an order, by absence of any formal
> opportunity of cross- examination per se does not invalidate or vitiate the
> decision arrived at fairly. This is more so when the party against whom an
> order has been passed does not dispute the facts and does not demand to test
> the veracity of the version of the credibility of the statement.
> The party who does not want to controvert the veracity of the evidence from
> record or testimony gathered behind his back cannot expect to succeed in any
> subsequent demand that there was no opportunity of cross- examination
> specially when it was not asked for and there was no dispute about the
> veracity of the statements. Where there is no dispute as to the facts, or
> the weight to be attached on disputed facts but only an explanation to the
> acts, absence of opportunity to cross- examination does not create any
> prejudice in such cases.
> The principles of natural justice will, therefore, depend upon the facts and
> circumstances of each particular case. We have set out hereinbefore the
> actual facts and circumstances of the case. The appellant was associated
> with the preliminary investigation that was conducted against him. He does
> not deny or dispute that. Information and materials undoubtedly were
> gathered not in his presence but whatever information was there and gathered
> namely, the versions of the persons, the particular entries which required
> examination were shown to him. He was conveyed the information given and his
> explanation was asked for. He participated in that investigation. He gave
> his explanation but WP(C) 7177 of 2013-CAV Page 25 of 29 he did not dispute
> any of the facts nor did he ask for any opportunity to call any evidence to
> rebut these facts."
> 36\. Principles of natural justice cannot be reduced to any hard and fast
> formula. As said in Russel Vs. Duke of Norfolk reported in (1949) 1 ALL ER
> 109, this principles cannot be put in a straight-jacket. Their applicability
> depends upon the context and the facts and circumstances to each case.
37\. In Aligarh Muslim University Vs. Mansoor Ali Khan reported in (2000) 7
SCC 529, in reference to the facts involved in the case it was held that in
absence of a notice to show cause did not make any difference and that the
case would fall with the exception noted in S.L.Kapoor (Supra).
38\. Apart from the fact that it is not a case of removal from office or post
pursuant to any departmental proceeding, the petitioner has also failed to
establish any prejudice caused to him because of non- furnishing of the copy
of the enquiry report. In any case, the report was very much made available to
the petitioner along with the counter affidavit to which he also submitted his
reply affidavit. The petitioner has not specifically pleaded anything as to
how non-furnishing of the said report caused any prejudice to his defence. He
has been removed from the office of the Chairman as per the provisions of
Section 229 of the Assam Municipal Act, 1956, which reads as follows :-
> "28. Removal of Chairman and Vice-Chairman- (3) The Statement Government
> after giving an opportunity to explain, may remove the Chairman or Vice-
> Chairman from his office if he is persistently omitting or refusing to carry
> out or disobeying the provisions of this Act and the rules thereunder or any
> lawful orders issued thereunder or he becomes incapable of so acting or is
> declared insolvent or is convicted by a criminal WP(C) 7177 of 2013-CAV Page
> 26 of 29 Court for any offence involving moral turpitude."
39\. In the show cause notice he was very much apprised of the illegality
committed in issuing the NIT in question and execution of the works without
following the Govt. guidelines of newspaper advertisement and website
advertisement. It was alleged that he had persistently or refused to carry out
or disobeyed the provisions of the Act and the Rules there-under or lawful
orders. In response to the said show cause notice the petitioner submitted his
detailed reply and as noted above, all-along maintained that there was paper
publication of the NIT. Contrary to such stand of the petitioner, there was no
newspaper publication of the NIT rather there was forgery in incorporating the
NIT advertisement only in the issues of both the newspaper found in possession
of the petitioner. There is also no explanation as to why the petitioner could
not upload the NIT advertisement in the website.
40\. Keeping in mind the above position, the much emphasized plea of violation
of the principles of natural justice will have to be appreciated. Needless to
say that the Court will be slow to interfere in such matters relating to
administrative functions unless decision is tainted by any vulnerability
enumerated above; like illegality, irrationality and procedural impropriety.
Whether the action falls within any of the categories has to be established.
Mere assertion in that regard would not be sufficient.
41\. As has been held by the Apex Court in Cannara Bank Vs. Debasis Das
reported in (2003) 4 SCC 557 Natural justice is another name for common-sense
justice. Rules of natural justice are not codified canons. But they are
principles ingrained into the conscience of man. Natural justice is the
administration of justice in a common- sense liberal way. Justice is based
substantially on natural ideals and WP(C) 7177 of 2013-CAV Page 27 of 29 human
values. The administration of justice is to be freed from the narrow and
restricted considerations which are usually associated with a formulated law
involving linguistic technicalities and grammatical niceties. It is the
substance of justice which has to determine its form. The expression 'natural
justice" and "legal justice" do not present a watertight classification. It is
the substance of justice which is to be secured by both, and whenever legal
justice fails to achieve this solemn purpose, natural justice is called in aid
of legal justice. Natural justice relieves legal justice from unnecessary
technicality, grammatical pedantry or logical prevarication.
42\. What is known is "Useless Formality Theory" has received consideration of
the Apex Court in M.C. Mehta Vs. Union of India reported in (1999) 6 SCC 237.
Without going into the said aspect of the matter where it is found that no
prejudice could be shown by the petitioner, there was no failure of justice
occasioning interference with public interest.
43\. In case of a Government employee, he is normally placed under suspension
if he is involved in a criminal case. In the instant case when he petitioner
claims protection from the impugned order on the ground of violation of
principles of natural justice like a public servant but at the same he does
not volunteer to demit office because of his involvement in the criminal case.
He is holding a responsible position of Chairman of a Town Committee. Having
regard to the seriousness of the allegation and the public interest involved,
if the authorities decided to remove him from the office of the Chairman after
providing him an opportunity of being heard, in my considered opinion, this
Court exercising its powers of Judicial review under Article 226 of the
Constitution of India cannot sit on appeal over the said decision so as to
substitute another decision and that too on the feeble and flimsy ground of
alleged violation of the principles of natural justice. WP(C) 7177 of 2013-CAV
Page 28 of 29
44\. For all the aforesaid reasons I do not find any merit in the writ
petition and accordingly it is dismissed. The interim order passed on
09/12/2013 stands vacated.
45\. There shall be no order as to costs.
46\. Before parting with the case records, I place on record the displeasure
of the Court in not taking any departmental action against the erring
officials indicated in the enquiry report referred to above (para 21). It is
also shocking as to how the NIT could be shown published only in one copy of
the news papers so as to avoid participation in tender process and to confine
the same to a few favoured ones. Direction is hereby issued to take immediate
steps to unearth the racket and also to take departmental action against the
erring officials.
JUDGE Sukhamay WP(C) 7177 of 2013-CAV Page 29 of 29
if the authorities decided to remove him from the office of the Chairman after
providing him an opportunity of being heard, in my considered opinion, this
Court exercising its powers of Judicial review under Article 226 of the
Constitution of India cannot sit on appeal over the said decision so as to
substitute another decision and that too on the feeble and flimsy ground of
alleged violation of the principles of natural justice. WP(C) 7177 of 2013-CAV
Page 28 of 29
44\. For all the aforesaid reasons I do not find any merit in the writ
petition and accordingly it is dismissed. The interim order passed on
09/12/2013 stands vacated.
45\. There shall be no order as to costs.
46\. Before parting with the case records, I place on record the displeasure
of the Court in not taking any departmental action against the erring
officials indicated in the enquiry report referred to above (para 21). It is
also shocking as to how the NIT could be shown published only in one copy of
the news papers so as to avoid participation in tender process and to confine
                                 Assam, Urban Development Department,
                                 Dispur, Guwahati-6.
                              4. The Secretary, Government of Assam, Urban
                                 Development Department, Dispur, Guwahati-
                                 6.
                              5. The Deputy Secretary, Government of Assam,
                                 Urban Development Department, Dispur,
                                 Guwahati-6.
                              6. The Under Secretary, Government of Assam,
                                 Urban Development Department, Dispur,
                                 Guwahati-6.
                              7. The Secretary, Government of Assam,
                                 Planning & Development Department, Dispur,
                                 Guwahati-6.
                              8. The Secretary, Government of Assam, Town &
                                 Country   Planning   Department,    Dispur,
                                 Guwahati-6.
                              9. The Secretary, Government of Assam,
                                 Municipal Administration Department, Dispur,
                                 Guwahati-6.
if the authorities decided to remove him from the office of the Chairman after
providing him an opportunity of being heard, in my considered opinion, this
Court exercising its powers of Judicial review under Article 226 of the
Constitution of India cannot sit on appeal over the said decision so as to
substitute another decision and that too on the feeble and flimsy ground of
alleged violation of the principles of natural justice. WP(C) 7177 of 2013-CAV
Page 28 of 29
44\. For all the aforesaid reasons I do not find any merit in the writ
petition and accordingly it is dismissed. The interim order passed on
09/12/2013 stands vacated.
45\. There shall be no order as to costs.
46\. Before parting with the case records, I place on record the displeasure
of the Court in not taking any departmental action against the erring
officials indicated in the enquiry report referred to above (para 21). It is
also shocking as to how the NIT could be shown published only in one copy of
the news papers so as to avoid participation in tender process and to confine
                                 Assam, Urban Development Department,
                                 Dispur, Guwahati-6.
                              4. The Secretary, Government of Assam, Urban
                                 Development Department, Dispur, Guwahati-
                                 6.
                              5. The Deputy Secretary, Government of Assam,
                                 Urban Development Department, Dispur,
                                 Guwahati-6.
                              6. The Under Secretary, Government of Assam,
                                 Urban Development Department, Dispur,
                                 Guwahati-6.
                              7. The Secretary, Government of Assam,
                                 Planning & Development Department, Dispur,
                                 Guwahati-6.
                              8. The Secretary, Government of Assam, Town &
                                 Country   Planning   Department,    Dispur,
                                 Guwahati-6.
                              9. The Secretary, Government of Assam,
                                 Municipal Administration Department, Dispur,
                                 Guwahati-6.
if the authorities decided to remove him from the office of the Chairman after
providing him an opportunity of being heard, in my considered opinion, this
Court exercising its powers of Judicial review under Article 226 of the
Constitution of India cannot sit on appeal over the said decision so as to
substitute another decision and that too on the feeble and flimsy ground of
alleged violation of the principles of natural justice. WP(C) 7177 of 2013-CAV
Page 28 of 29
44\. For all the aforesaid reasons I do not find any merit in the writ
petition and accordingly it is dismissed. The interim order passed on
09/12/2013 stands vacated.
45\. There shall be no order as to costs.
46\. Before parting with the case records, I place on record the displeasure
of the Court in not taking any departmental action against the erring
officials indicated in the enquiry report referred to above (para 21). It is
also shocking as to how the NIT could be shown published only in one copy of
the news papers so as to avoid participation in tender process and to confine
                                 Assam, Urban Development Department,
                                 Dispur, Guwahati-6.
                              4. The Secretary, Government of Assam, Urban
                                 Development Department, Dispur, Guwahati-
                                 6.
                              5. The Deputy Secretary, Government of Assam,
                                 Urban Development Department, Dispur,
                                 Guwahati-6.
                              6. The Under Secretary, Government of Assam,
                                 Urban Development Department, Dispur,
                                 Guwahati-6.
                              7. The Secretary, Government of Assam,
                                 Planning & Development Department, Dispur,
                                 Guwahati-6.
                              8. The Secretary, Government of Assam, Town &
                                 Country   Planning   Department,    Dispur,
                                 Guwahati-6.
                              9. The Secretary, Government of Assam,
                                 Municipal Administration Department, Dispur,
                                 Guwahati-6.
                              10. The Deputy Commissioner, Goalpara, District
                                  - Goalpara, Assam.
    WP(C) 7177 of 2013-CAV                                       Page 1 of 29
                                  11. The Circle Officer, Lakhipur Circle, PO -
                                     Lakhipur, Goalpara, Assam.
                                 12. Begum Aleya Ahmed, W/o. Jillaur Rahman
                                     Ahmed, Village- Natun Bazar, Lakhipur Town,
                                     Ward No.3, P.O. Lakhipur, District- Goalpara,
                                     Assam.
                                 13. Honufa Begum, wife of Hazarat Ali, Village-
                                     Manashpara, Lakhipur Town, Ward No.1, P.O.
if the authorities decided to remove him from the office of the Chairman after
providing him an opportunity of being heard, in my considered opinion, this
Court exercising its powers of Judicial review under Article 226 of the
Constitution of India cannot sit on appeal over the said decision so as to
substitute another decision and that too on the feeble and flimsy ground of
alleged violation of the principles of natural justice. WP(C) 7177 of 2013-CAV
Page 28 of 29
44\. For all the aforesaid reasons I do not find any merit in the writ
petition and accordingly it is dismissed. The interim order passed on
09/12/2013 stands vacated.
45\. There shall be no order as to costs.
46\. Before parting with the case records, I place on record the displeasure
of the Court in not taking any departmental action against the erring
officials indicated in the enquiry report referred to above (para 21). It is
also shocking as to how the NIT could be shown published only in one copy of
the news papers so as to avoid participation in tender process and to confine
                                 Assam, Urban Development Department,
                                 Dispur, Guwahati-6.
                              4. The Secretary, Government of Assam, Urban
                                 Development Department, Dispur, Guwahati-
                                 6.
                              5. The Deputy Secretary, Government of Assam,
                                 Urban Development Department, Dispur,
                                 Guwahati-6.
                              6. The Under Secretary, Government of Assam,
                                 Urban Development Department, Dispur,
                                 Guwahati-6.
                              7. The Secretary, Government of Assam,
                                 Planning & Development Department, Dispur,
                                 Guwahati-6.
                              8. The Secretary, Government of Assam, Town &
                                 Country   Planning   Department,    Dispur,
                                 Guwahati-6.
                              9. The Secretary, Government of Assam,
                                 Municipal Administration Department, Dispur,
                                 Guwahati-6.
                              10. The Deputy Commissioner, Goalpara, District
                                  - Goalpara, Assam.
    WP(C) 7177 of 2013-CAV                                       Page 1 of 29
                                  11. The Circle Officer, Lakhipur Circle, PO -
                                     Lakhipur, Goalpara, Assam.
                                 12. Begum Aleya Ahmed, W/o. Jillaur Rahman
                                     Ahmed, Village- Natun Bazar, Lakhipur Town,
                                     Ward No.3, P.O. Lakhipur, District- Goalpara,
                                     Assam.
                                 13. Honufa Begum, wife of Hazarat Ali, Village-
                                     Manashpara, Lakhipur Town, Ward No.1, P.O.
if the authorities decided to remove him from the office of the Chairman after
providing him an opportunity of being heard, in my considered opinion, this
Court exercising its powers of Judicial review under Article 226 of the
Constitution of India cannot sit on appeal over the said decision so as to
substitute another decision and that too on the feeble and flimsy ground of
alleged violation of the principles of natural justice. WP(C) 7177 of 2013-CAV
Page 28 of 29
44\. For all the aforesaid reasons I do not find any merit in the writ
petition and accordingly it is dismissed. The interim order passed on
09/12/2013 stands vacated.
45\. There shall be no order as to costs.
46\. Before parting with the case records, I place on record the displeasure
of the Court in not taking any departmental action against the erring
officials indicated in the enquiry report referred to above (para 21). It is
also shocking as to how the NIT could be shown published only in one copy of
the news papers so as to avoid participation in tender process and to confine
