Delhi High Court
Delhi High Court Bar Association & ... vs Govt. Of Nct Of Delhi & Anr. on 9
October, 2013
Author: Gita Mittal
    $~
    * IN THE HIGH COURT OF DELHI AT NEW DELHI
    %                       Date of decision: 9th October, 2013
    +      WP (C) No. 4770/2012 & CM Nos. 9869/2012 (for stay),
           11129/2012 (for impleadment), 16545/2012 (for
           intervention/impleadment), 16845/2012 (for intervention/
           impleadment),      16882/2012     (for     intervention/
           impleadment)
    DELHI HIGH COURT BAR ASSOCIATION & ANR.
                                               ......Petitioners
                Through: Mr.A.S. Chandhiok, Sr. Adv. with
                         Mr.Shyam Sharma, Mr.Mohit Gupta,
                         Mr.Amit Saxena, Ms. Laxmi
                         Chauhan, Advs.
                         Mr.J.P. Sengh, Sr. Adv. with Mr.
                         Mohit Mathur, P-2 in WP (C)
Court Fees (Delhi Amendment) Act, W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 530 of 531 2012\.
Given the delay which may result in the cases if the parties were required to
seek amendment of their respective pleadings on account of the refund of the
court fees, we direct that the concerned courts may permit appropriate
endorsements to be made in the pleadings so as to appropriately clarify the
court fee affixed thereon. It is left to the judicial discretion of the court
concerned to suo motu mould appropriate directions in this regard.
951\. So far as CM Nos.11129/2012, 16545/2012, 16845/2012 and 16882/2012
seeking impleadments are concerned, we have heard learned senior counsel and
counsels on merits on the writ petitions. The prayer made in these
applications is, therefore, satisfied. These applications are so disposed of.
952\. Before parting with the case, we place on record our appreciation for
the valuable and effective assistance rendered by Mr.Amarjit Singh Chandhiok,
learned senior counsel and Mr.Nakul Dewan, Advocate in these matters.
953\. Since the main writ petitions have been filed in representative
capacity, we are not inclined to award any cost on the petition.
                         Mohit Mathur, P-2 in WP (C)
                         No.4770/2012 in person and Ms.
                         Sandhya Gupta & Mr.Ritesh Singh,
                         Advs.
                         Mr. Amit Khemka, Adv. with Ms.
                         Sanorita D. Bharali, Mr. Rishi
                         Sehgal, Advs. for New Delhi Bar
                         Association, Rohini Bar Association
                         & Dwarka Bar Association for
                         applicants in CM Nos.16545/2012,
                         16845/2012 & 16882/2012.
                                 versus
    GOVT. OF NCT OF DELHI & ANR.             ......Respondents
                  Through : Mr. Harish N. Salve, Sr. Adv. with
                            Mr.Nakul Dewan, Mr. J.M. Kalia,
                            Mr. Raghav Shankar &
                            Ms.Bhawna Garg, Advs. for Govt.
                            of NCT of Delhi.
    W.P.(C)No.4770/2012                               page 1 of 531
     +      WP (C) No.7250/2012
    Rajiv Khosla                                          ..........Petitioner
                          Through:      Mr.Rajiv Khosla in person.
                                        Mr.M.N. Krishnamani, Sr. Adv.
                                        with Ms.Aditi Patanjali, Adv. for
                                        Delhi Bar Association
                               versus
    State of NCT of Delhi                              ...........Respondent
                      Through:          Mr. Harish N. Salve, Sr. Adv. with
                                        Mr. Nakul Dewan, Mr. J.M. Kalia,
                                        Mr. Raghav Shankar &
                                        Ms.Bhawna Garg, Advs. for Govt.
                                        of NCT of Delhi.
    +      WP (C) No.456/2013 & CM Nos.885/2013 (for stay)
    Umesh Kapoor                                        ..... Petitioner
                          Through:      Ms.Neelam Rathore, Adv.
                                        Versus
    Govt. of NCT of Delhi & Anr.            ..........Respondents
                     Through: Mr. Harish N. Salve, Sr. Adv. with
                                 Mr.Nakul Dewan, Mr.J.M. Kalia,
                                 Mr. Raghav Shankar &
                                 Ms.Bhawna Garg, Advs. for Govt.
                                 of NCT of Delhi.
    CORAM:
    HON'BLE MS. JUSTICE GITA MITTAL
    HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE J.R. MIDHA
    W.P.(C)No.4770/2012                                        page 2 of 531
     GITA MITTAL, J.
―There can be peace only if there is justice‖
\- Mahatma Gandhi
1\. The instant writ petitions challenge the constitutionality and validity of
the Court Fees (Delhi Amendment) Act, 2012 ―Delhi Act 11 of 2012‖ whereby the
Legislative Assembly of the National Capital Territory of Delhi has amended
the Court Fees Act, 1870 in force in the National Capital Territory of Delhi.
2\. As per the scheme of the Court Fees Act, 1870, Section 6 prescribes
documents specified as chargeable with court fee in Schedules I and II to the
Act and prohibits their filing, exhibition or recording in a court of justice
unless fees of the indicated amount have been paid. The schedules have been
divided into Schedule I dealing with ad valorem court fees and Schedule II
dealing with fixed court fees.
3\. By the Court Fees (Delhi Amendment) Act 2012, Section 26 of the Court Fees
Act was re-numbered as sub-section (1) thereof and sub-section (2) was
inserted as follows:-
> (2) For the purposes of sub-section (1), and section 25, ―stamp‖ means any
> mark, seal or endorsement by any agency or person duly authorized by the
> appropriate government, and includes an adhesive or impressed stamp, for the
> purposes of court fee chargeable under this Act.
Explanation.- ―Impressed stamp‖ includes impression W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 3
of 531 by a franking machine or any other machine, or a unique number
generated by e-stamping or similar software, as the Appropriate Government
may, by notification in the official Gazette, specify.‖
4\. The Court Fees (Delhi Amendment) Act, 2012 also substituted Schedule I and
Schedule II of the Court Fees Act, 1870 by new schedules specifying ad valorem
and fixed fees, as applicable to the National Capital Territory of Delhi.
5\. The impugned amendment seeks to introduce ad valorem payment of documents
which are included in Schedule II.
6\. As these writ petitions raise similar questions of fact and law and seek
the same relief, they have been taken up together for the purposes of hearing
and adjudication.
7\. On one side of the watershed is the view that the amendments to the Court
Fees Act 1870, which is a Central legislation, by the Legislative Assembly of
the National Capital Territory of Delhi (hereinafter referred to as the
‗Legislative Assembly of Delhi'), is unconstitutional, arbitrary and ultra
vires on account of lack of legislative competence, whilst on the other side
exists the view that the Legislative Assembly of Delhi has the competence to
amend the Central Act as the power to legislate on the subject of fees taken
in all courts except the Supreme Court vests exclusively in the State
Legislature, vide Entry 3 of List II.
8\. W.P. (C) No.4770/2012 has been filed by the Delhi High W.P.(C)No.4770/2012
page 4 of 531 Court Bar Association through Shri Mohit Mathur, its Honorary
Secretary (who is also petitioner no.2 before us). The Delhi High Court Bar
Association, a representative body of advocates, seeks to safeguard the
constitutional rights of citizens.
9\. This writ petition has been argued before us by Mr. A.S. Chandhiok, Senior
Advocate and President of the High Court Bar Association.
10\. The following three impleadment applications have been filed in WP(C) No.
4770/2012:
> I. CM No.16545/2012 by the Dwarka Court Bar Association.
           II.     CM No.16845/2012        by    the   New     Delhi         Bar
                   Association.
           III.    CM No.16882/2012 by the Rohini Court Bar
                   Association.
> 11\. Given the urgency of the matter and for the reason of expediency, these
> applications were heard and kept for disposal with the main writ petition
> and Mr. Amit Khemka, Advocate appearing for the Dwarka, New Delhi and Rohini
> Court Bar Associations has been heard on merits.
12\. W.P. (C) No.7250/2012 has been filed by Mr. Rajiv Khosla, former
President of the Delhi Bar Association. We have heard Mr. M.N. Krishnamani,
Senior Advocate and President of the Supreme Court Bar Association as well as
Mr. Rajiv Khosla in support of W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 5 of 531 this
petition.
13\. Mr. Krishnamani has submitted that the enhancement of court fees has been
effected without taking into consideration relevant material and that the
amendment completely ignores the 189th Report of the Law Commission of India
on the ―Revision of the Court Fee Structure‖ as well as its recommendations.
It is contended that by the impugned amendment, in certain instances, the
enhancement results in a person having to pay more than 24% of the value of
the subject matter of the lis as court fee, restricting access to justice for
those who are financially unable to afford the amended court fees. This goes
against the basic structure and spirit of the Constitution.
14\. W.P.(C)No.456/2013 has been filed and argued by Ms. Neelam Rathore,
Advocate. This writ petitioner had initiated proceedings under Section 34 of
the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 challenging an arbitral award. By
an order dated 18 th December 2012, the learned Single Judge of this court
directed this petitioner to affix proper court fees in terms of the Court Fees
(Delhi Amendment) Act, 2012 based on the value of the properties which form
the subject matter of the award under challenge. In this background, this writ
petition seeks to challenge the constitutionality of the amendment of the levy
under Clauses 8(a)and 8(b) of Schedule II of the Court Fees Act on the ground
that the same was arbitrary, unreasonable, illegal, ultra vires and
unconstitutional.
W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 6 of 531
15\. The term ‗respondents' refers to the Government of the National Capital
Territory of Delhi and its agencies. Wherever reference is made to the
Lieutenant Governor of the NCT of Delhi, it has been mentioned so
specifically.
Judicial History
16\. The first writ petition being W.P. (C) No.4770/2012 was filed along with
CM No.9869/2012 which came to be listed before this court on the 9th of August
2012. The court noted that the challenge to the notification dated 23rd July,
2012 by which the Court Fees (Delhi Amendment) Act, 2012 had been notified,
was laid on the ground that the Legislative Assembly of Delhi lacked
legislative competence placing reliance on judicial precedents including a
Full Bench decision of this court. The petitioner had also placed before the
court a copy of the letter dated 8th August, 2012 addressed by Dr. Ashok Kumar
Walia, Minister to Shri Rajiv Jai, the Chairman of the Coordination Council of
All Bar Associations of Delhi assuring that the Government would look into the
matter and also would hold discussions with all Bar Associations and all
concerned to resolve the issue at the earliest.
17\. In view of the above, the Court observed that the government may take
such steps for resolving the issues at the earliest and preferably within two
weeks after holding discussions with the State Coordination Council. The Court
observed that the enhanced court fee which was under challenge would have to
be W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 7 of 531 paid by the members of the public. Refund
to them, in the event of the petition succeeding, would be impractical and
that, on the contrary, the enhanced court fee if upheld, could always be
recovered. Therefore on 9th of August 2012, an interim order of stay of the
operation of the aforesaid notification was granted. This order was continued
in proceedings thereafter.
18\. The respondents filed a counter affidavit in W.P. (C) No.4770/2012 dated
6th September, 2012 to which the petitioner filed a rejoinder. The respondents
also filed written submissions on 21st September, 2012. The learned Standing
Counsel of GNCTD commenced with the arguments in the case on 27 th September,
2012. Thereafter a request for filing additional documents was made on behalf
of the GNCT of Delhi which was granted by the Court on 29th November, 2012.
Despite repeated opportunity, nothing was brought on record till 4th January,
2013 when an additional affidavit of three pages with some documents was
filed. The respondents still did not place before the Court any material
considered by it before proposing the amendment placed before the Delhi
Legislative Assembly or the President for consideration of the proposal for
amendment or approval. No material has been placed to support the action of
the respondents before this Court even till the time the case was reserved
after hearing.
19\. At a stage when Mr. Chandhiok, learned Senior Counsel for the petitioners
was making submissions in rejoinder, Mr J.M.
W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 8 of 531 Kalia, learned counsel appearing for the
respondents made an oral request for placing further documents on record which
were taken on record on 28th February, 2013 and the parties were heard on
these documents as well.
20\. The Government of NCT of Delhi assailed the interim orders dated 9th
August, 2012 (which were continued on 28th August, 2012, 13th and 14th
September, 2012) by way of SLP(Civil)Nos.28958-28962/2012 filed before the
Supreme Court of India on or about 22nd September, 2012 which came to be
listed on 26th September, 2012 when the following order was passed by the
Supreme Court:
> ―Taken on board.
> Issue notice on the special leave petitions as also on the petitioners'
> prayer for interim relief, returnable on 30.11.2012. Dasti, in addition, is
> permitted.
> In the meanwhile, operation of orders dated 09.08.2012, 28.08.2012,
> 13.09.2012 and 14.09.2012 passed by the Division Bench of the Delhi High
> Court in Civil Writ Petition No.4770 of 2012 shall remain stayed.
> It shall be the petitioners' duty to serve the respondents before the next
> date of hearing failing which the interim order passed today shall stand
> automatically vacated.‖
21\. On 16th October 2012, this order was modified by the Supreme Court to the
following extent:
W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 9 of 531 "I.A.Nos.11-15 of 2012 in SLP (C) Nos.28958-
28962 of 2012 These applications have been filed by Delhi Bar Association for
its impleadment as party to the special leave petitions.
Having heard learned Senior Counsel for the applicant, we are satisfied that
ends of justice will be served by granting leave to the applicant to act as an
intervenor in the proceedings of the special leave petitions. Ordered
accordingly.
I.A.Nos.16-20 of 2012 in SLP(C)Nos.28958-28962 of 2012 Arguments heard.
Learned Senior Counsel appearing for the applicant
\- intervenor has made certain suggestions. Learned Solicitor General says
that he will consult the concerned authorities and make a statement on the
next date of hearing.
For further hearing, the case be listed on 30.10.2012.
While adjourning the case, we make it clear that the High Court shall be free
to proceed with the final hearing of the writ petition.
The interim order passed on 26.09.2012 is modified in the following terms:-
i) No Court fee shall be payable on the written statement (simplicitor).
ii) No Court fee shall be payable on the complaint filed under Section 138 of
the Negotiable Instruments Act, 1881 and the application filed for review of
the W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 10 of 531 judgment/order passed by the Courts.
All the interlocutory applications stand disposed of accordingly.‖
22\. The SLP was disposed of by the Court by the following order passed on
30th October, 2012:-
> ―These petitions are directed against interim orders passed by the Division
> Bench of the Delhi High Court whereby the amendments made in Court Fees Act,
> 1870 by Court Fees (Delhi Amendment) Act, 2012 were stayed.
> We have heard learned counsel for the parties and perused the record.
> In our view, ends of justice will be served by requesting the High Court to
> dispose of the main writ petition as early as possible with the direction
> that interim order passed by this Court on 26.09.2012, as modified on
> 16.10.2012, shall remain operative till the disposal of the writ petition by
> the High Court. Ordered accordingly.
> The special leave petitions are disposed of in the manner indicated above.‖
23\. Mr. Chandhiok, learned Senior Counsel for the petitioner has submitted
that before the Supreme Court, the present respondents had given a declaration
in terms of Rule 6 of the Supreme Court Rules, to the effect that Annexures
P-1 to P-4 produced along with the SLP are true copies of the
pleadings/documents which formed part of the records of the case in the Court
below against whose W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 11 of 531 order the leave to
appeal was sought for in the petition. Counsel for the Government of NCT for
Delhi had further certified that no additional facts or documents have been
taken and relied upon by the petitioner in the SLP. It is pointed out that
with the SLP, the present respondents enclosed as Annexure P-1 a bunch of
documents which were not filed by them before this Court. It is submitted that
the same have not been placed on the record of this case even till date.
24\. Before us, along with the counter affidavit, the respondents have only
enclosed as Annexure B, a comparative analysis of expenditure on
administration of justice in some States as a comparison of the sale of court
fees. The aforenoticed enclosures with the Special Leave Petition were not
filed in the writ petition before us.
25\. It is important to note that the respondents have also not disclosed
anywhere on record before this court details of the amount that they receive
towards the expenditure on the judiciary from the Central Government, or the
budgetary provisions made by the Government of NCT of Delhi for the judiciary.
The respondents also have neither placed dates, details or documents, if any
furnished for the consideration of the subject by the President of India; nor
placed any orders passed thereon or material relied upon to support the
decision to enhance the court fees.
26\. Before the Supreme Court, the respondents had placed some
W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 12 of 531 communications, which included a copy of a
recommendation dated 12th August, 2010 for the formation of a Sub-Committee,
its recommendations, and the draft proposal for the amendment for the
Legislative Assembly of Delhi. It is urged by Mr. Chandhiok, learned Senior
Counsel that the respondents therefore, gave a false declaration and a false
certificate with the Special Leave Petition that the documents filed before
the Supreme Court had been placed on record before this court.
Contentions of the Petitioners
27\. Mr. Chandhiok learned Senior Counsel submits that as per Article 1 and
Schedule I of the Constitution of India, Delhi was and continues to be a Union
Territory; that Delhi is not a State within the meaning of expression under
Article 1(3)(a) of the Constitution of India. The legislative action of the
respondents is assailed inter alia on the ground of lack of legislative
competence of the Legislative Assembly of Delhi. It is submitted that by the
Constitution (Sixty-ninth) Amendment Act, 1991 w.e.f. 01.02.1992, Article
239AA was introduced into the Constitution which made special provisions with
respect to the National Capital Territory of Delhi. By virtue of Article
239AA(2)(a) and Article 239AA(3)(a), the Legislative Assembly of Delhi was
constituted with the powers to make laws with regard to any of the matters in
the State List or in the Concurrent List in so far as such matter was
applicable to the Union Territory of Delhi except matters with regard to
Entries 1, 2 and 18 of the State List and Entries 64, 65 W.P.(C)No.4770/2012
page 13 of 531 and 66 of that List in so far as they relate to Entries 1, 2
and 18.
28\. Learned Senior Counsel has argued that the expression ‗Union Territory'
in Article 239AA(3)(b) refers to Delhi and therefore, the Parliament alone had
the competence to legislate with regard to any matter concerning Delhi, in
terms of the mandate of Article 246(4) which provided that the Parliament has
power to make laws with respect to any matter for any Union Territory even if
its falls under List II of Schedule VII of the Constitution.
29\. It has been urged at length by the petitioners that despite introduction
of Article 239AA by the Constitution (Sixty-Ninth) Amendment Act, 1991 which
provides for the constitution of the Legislative Assembly of Delhi, only
limited power and authority has been conferred on the Legislative Assembly of
Delhi and the Parliament remains supreme so far as competence to legislate is
concerned. It is also pressed that Delhi remains a Union Territory despite the
provision of a Legislative Assembly for the National Capital Territory of
Delhi. For this reason, the concept of subject- wise separation of powers into
Union, State and Concurrent Lists in Schedule VII of the Constitution of India
is of no consequence so far as Delhi is concerned.
30\. It is urged by Mr. Chandhiok, that as per Article 200 of the Constitution
of India, the Governor is prohibited from granting assent to any bill which in
the opinion of the Governor would, if it W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 14 of 531
became law, derogate from the powers of the High Court so as to endanger the
position which that High Court by the Constitution designed to fill. It is
submitted that if the Governor of a State is so precluded, the Lt. Governor of
Delhi would also not have the power under the Constitution to assent to any
such legislation made by the Legislative Assembly of Delhi which would
derogate from the powers of the court.
31\. It is urged that under Article 239AA, the Lt. Governor of Delhi has been
conferred no authority or jurisdiction to participate in the legislative
process at all and consequently the acts attributed to the Lt. Governor are
unconstitutional and in any case are without the authority of law.
32\. Learned Senior Counsel submits that the Delhi Legislative Assembly had no
legislative competence to pass the impugned legislation and that in the given
facts and circumstances, the Presidential assent is of no avail. An alternate
argument is made that even if the respondents had the competence, the
respondents have failed to abide by the constitutional mandate which required
them to point out to the President the repugnancy of the proposed amendment to
the Central enactment; and to have specifically sought consideration by the
President and assent to the same.
33\. On merits, the petitioner assails the Court Fees (Delhi Amendment) Act,
2012 on the ground that the amended schedule of court fees negates the concept
of a fee as there is no correlation W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 15 of 531 between
the levy and the service which is administered by the State and that the fee
actually partakes the character of a tax, which falls squarely within the
jurisdiction and legislative competence of the Union Government. The argument
is that by virtue of enhancement the court fee, the respondent is aiming to
build general revenue which is constitutionally and legally impermissible. The
contention also is that the impugned amendment impacts the jurisdiction of the
Delhi High Court which also is prohibited.
34\. Mr. Krishnamani, learned Senior Counsel for the petitioners has
emphasised argued before this court that even if the Delhi Legislative
Assembly had the legislative competence, the impugned amendment is against the
basic constitutional value of administration of justice in a welfare State.
The levy affects the untrammelled fundamental and human right of access to
justice of the citizens, and also forms an insurmountable barrier to accessing
justice. It violates their rights under Article 21 of the Constitution and is
therefore not sustainable. By the amendment, the Delhi Government is
abrogating from its primary duty of ensuring an efficacious justice
dispensation system which is within the reach of all.
35\. The writ petitioners also contend that the amendment has been effected in
gross violation of the constitutionally prescribed procedure as well as in
breach of the provisions of the Government of NCT of Delhi Act, 1991 and the
Transaction of Business of the W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 16 of 531 Government
of National Capital Territory of Delhi Rules, 1993.
36\. The contention of the petitioners is that the impugned amendment has
completely ignored relevant material including the prevalent local conditions,
the authoritative reports of the Law Commission of India including the 189th
Report on the ‗Revision of the Court Fee Structure', as well as several
binding judicial precedents on the issue.
Respondents' stand
37\. The respondents, on the other hand, have taken the stand that in exercise
of jurisdiction under Article 239AA read with Entry 3 List II, the Legislative
Assembly of Delhi proposed the Court Fees (Delhi Amendment) Bill 2012 which
was placed for the consideration of the President and received her assent. It
is further contended that having received the assent of the President, it is
the amendment which has to prevail.
38\. We may usefully set out the stand of the respondents in the counter
affidavit dated 6th September, 2012 and the additional affidavit dated 4th
January, 2013 filed in these proceedings.
39\. Mr Harish Salve, learned Senior Counsel for the respondents contends that
the Presidential assent is not justiciable and the challenge by the
petitioners is misconceived and untenable. It is contended that they have
exercised their power to legislate under Article 246(3) read with Entry 3,
List II and that the Government W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 17 of 531 of NCT
Delhi has the exclusive power to make laws on court fees; that the respondents
have exercised such jurisdiction and the President of India has assented to
the same. Therefore, though the Court Fees Act, 1870 is a Central enactment,
by virtue of the Presidential assent, the Court Fees (Delhi Amendment) Act,
2012 would prevail in Delhi.
40\. Our attention has also been drawn to the well-settled position that there
exists a presumption that a statute is constitutionally valid, unless it is
proven otherwise beyond reasonable doubt by the party challenging the said
statute on the grounds of constitutionality; and the constitutionality of the
Act can only be challenged on the grounds of lack of legislative competence or
violation of any of the fundamental rights guaranteed by the Constitution of
India.
Constitutional procedure and separation of powers
41\. Before considering the rival contentions, we may briefly notice the
constitutionally prescribed procedure for legislative action and the
separation of powers between the Union and States and the position of Union
Territories.
(a) Legislative procedure
42\. Given the extensive submissions made before us with regard to the
legislative procedure required to be followed, the relevant constitutional
provisions with regard to conduct of the business of W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page
18 of 531 the Government and the legislative procedure mandated for the
Parliament and the State Legislative Assemblies/Councils are required to be
set out for convenience:
> ―77. Conduct of business of the Government of India.--
> (1) All executive action of the Government of India shall be expressed to be
> taken in the name of the President.
> (2) Orders and other instruments made and executed in the name of the
> President shall be authenticated in such manner as may be specified in rules
> to be made by the President, and the validity of an order or instrument
> which is so authenticated shall not be called in question on the ground that
> it is not an order or instrument made or executed by the President.
> (3) The President shall make rules for the more convenient transaction of
> the business of the Government of India, and for the allocation among
> Ministers of the said business.‖
43\. The relevant constitutional provisions relating to the introduction and
passing of Bills by the Parliament are as follows:
> ―107. Provisions as to introduction and passing of Bills.--
> (1) Subject to the provisions of Articles 109 and 117 with respect to Money
> Bills and other financial Bills, a Bill may originate in either House of
> Parliament.
(2) Subject to the provisions of Articles 108 and 109, a Bill shall not be
deemed to have been passed by the W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 19 of 531 Houses of
Parliament unless it has been agreed to by both Houses, either without
amendment or with such amendments only as are agreed to by both Houses.
(3) A Bill pending in Parliament shall not lapse by reason of the prorogation
of the Houses.
(4) A Bill pending in the Council of States which has not been passed by the
House of the People shall not lapse on a dissolution of the House of the
People.
(5) A Bill which is pending in the House of the People, or which having been
passed by the House of the People is pending in the Council of States, shall,
subject to the provisions of Article 108, lapse on a dissolution of the House
of the People.‖ ―111. Assent to Bills.--
When a Bill has been passed by the Houses of Parliament, it shall be presented
to the President, and the President shall declare either that he assents to
the Bill, or that he withholds assent therefrom:
Provided that the President may, as soon as possible after the presentation to
him of a Bill for assent, return the Bill if it is not a Money Bill to the
Houses with a message requesting that they will reconsider the Bill or any
specified provisions thereof and, in particular, will consider the
desirability of introducing any such amendments as he may recommend in his
message, and when a Bill is so returned, the Houses shall reconsider the Bill
accordingly, and if the Bill is passed again by the Houses with or without
amendment and presented to the President for assent, the President shall not
withhold assent therefrom.‖
44\. So far as Bills relating to Legislative Assemblies or Councils of States
are concerned, the following Constitutional provisions are W.P.(C)No.4770/2012
page 20 of 531 relevant:
> ―200. Assent to Bills.-- When a Bill has been passed by the Legislative
> Assembly of a State or, in the case of a State having a Legislative Council,
> has been passed by both Houses of the Legislature of the State, it shall be
> presented to the Governor and the Governor shall declare either that he
> assents to the Bill or that he withholds assent therefrom or that he
> reserves the Bill for the consideration of the President:
> Provided that the Governor may, as soon as possible after the presentation
> to him of the Bill for assent, return the Bill if it is not a Money Bill
> together with a message requesting that the House or Houses will reconsider
> the Bill or any specified provisions thereof and, in particular, will
> consider the desirability of introducing any such amendments as he may
> recommend in his message and, when a Bill is so returned, the House or
> Houses shall reconsider the Bill accordingly, and if the Bill is passed
> again by the House or Houses with or without amendment and presented to the
> Governor for assent, the Governor shall not withhold assent therefrom:
> Provided further that the Governor shall not assent to, but shall reserve
> for the consideration of the President, any Bill which in the opinion of the
> Governor would, if it became law, so derogate from the powers of the High
> Court as to endanger the position which that Court is by this Constitution
> designed to fill.
201\. Bills reserved for consideration.-- When a Bill is reserved by a
Governor for the consideration of the President, the President shall declare
either that he W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 21 of 531 assents to the Bill or that
he withholds assent therefrom:
Provided that, where the Bill is not a Money Bill, the President may direct
the Governor to return the Bill to the House or, as the case may be, the
Houses of the Legislature of the State together with such a message as is
mentioned in the first proviso to Article 200 and, when a Bill is so returned,
the House or Houses shall reconsider it accordingly within a period of six
months from the date of receipt of such message and, if it is again passed by
the House or Houses with or without amendment, it shall be presented again to
the President for his consideration.‖
45\. So far as Union Territories are concerned, Article 239 is relevant and
reads as follows:
> 239\. Administration of Union Territories.-- (1) Save as otherwise provided
> by Parliament by law, every Union Territory shall be administered by the
> President acting, to such extent as he thinks fit, through an administrator
> to be appointed by him with such designation as he may specify.
> (2) Notwithstanding anything contained in Part VI, the President may appoint
> the Governor of a State as the administrator of an adjoining Union
> Territory, and where a Governor is so appointed, he shall exercise his
> functions as such administrator independently of his Council of Ministers.
(b) Division of Powers under the Constitution of India
46\. The distribution of the power to legislate is provided by Article 245 of
the Constitution which reads as follows:
W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 22 of 531 ―245. Extent of laws made by Parliament and
by the Legislatures of States.--(1) Subject to the provisions of this
Constitution, Parliament may make laws for the whole or any part of the
territory of India, and the Legislature of a State may make laws for the whole
or any part of the State.
(2) No law made by Parliament shall be deemed to be invalid on the ground that
it would have extra- territorial operation.‖
47\. The constitutional scheme also envisages distribution of the subject-
matter of laws which the Parliament may make and those which may be made by
the legislatures of States. This distribution is provided in Article 246 which
reads as follows:
> ―246. Subject-matter of laws made by Parliament and by the Legislatures of
> States.--(1) Notwithstanding anything in clauses (2) and (3), Parliament has
> exclusive power to make laws with respect to any of the matters enumerated
> in List I in the Seventh Schedule (in this Constitution referred to as the
> ―Union List‖).
> (2) Notwithstanding anything in clause (3), Parliament, and, subject to
> clause (1), the Legislature of any State also, have power to make laws with
> respect to any of the matters enumerated in List III in the Seventh Schedule
> (in this Constitution referred to as the ―Concurrent List‖).
> (3) Subject to clauses (1) and (2), the Legislature of any State has
> exclusive power to make laws for such State or any part thereof with respect
> to any of the matters enumerated in List II in the Seventh Schedule (in this
> Constitution referred to as the ―State List‖).
> W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 23 of 531 (4) Parliament has power to make laws
> with respect to any matter for any part of the territory of India not
> included in a State notwithstanding that such matter is a matter enumerated
> in the State List.‖
48\. Several provisions of the Constitution govern the division of powers with
respect to court fees. This is because specific entries in the Seventh
Schedule of the Constitution each of List I (the ‗Union List' of matters with
respect to which Parliament has the exclusive power to legislate); List II
(the ‗State List' of matters with respect to which the State legislatures have
the exclusive power to legislate); and List III (the ‗Concurrent List') of the
Seventh Schedule to the Constitution, relate to the subject of court fees. The
relevant constitutional entries in this regard read as follows:
> ―List I (Union List) Entry 77 - ―Constitution, organisation, jurisdiction
> and powers of the Supreme Court (including contempt of such court), and the
> fees taken therein...
> Entry 96 - ―Fees in respect of any of the matters in this list, but not
> including fees taken in any Court.
> List II (State List) Entry 3 - ―Officers and servants of the High Court;
> procedure in rent and revenue Courts; fees taken in all Courts except the
> Supreme Court.
> W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 24 of 531 Entry 66 - ―Fees in respect of any of the
> matters on this List, but not including fees taken in any Court.
> List III (Concurrent List) Entry 11A - ―Administration of justice;
> constitution and organization of all Courts, except the Supreme Court and
> the High Courts.
Entry 47 - ―Fees in respect of any of the matters in this List, but not
including fees taken in any Court.‖
(c) The Supreme Court
49\. By virtue of Entry 77 in List I (Union List) and Article 246(1),
Parliament thus has exclusive authority over Supreme Court fees, and can enact
any law relating to court fees payable in the Supreme Court. In exercise of
its rule-making power conferred by Article 145, the Supreme Court may frame
rules relating to court fees payable in the Supreme Court. These rules
however, are subject to any law made by the Parliament.
(d) High Court and Other Subordinate Courts not in Union Territories
50\. By virtue of Entry 3 of List II (State List) and Article 246(3), the
State legislatures have exclusive power over the High Court and other
subordinate court fees in any State. It is worth noting that the words
―administration of justice‖ in Entry 11A of List III W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page
25 of 531 (Concurrent List) do not grant legislative competence to Parliament
with respect to High Court or subordinate courts in the States--this is
because Entry 47 of List III clarifies that ―fees taken in any court‖ do not
fall within the enumerated subjects in List III.
(e) Courts in the Union Territories
51\. As per the constitutional scheme, it is evident that by virtue of Entry 3
of List II (State List) and Article 246(4) which grants Parliament the power
to legislate on a subject listed in the ‗State List' in any part of the
territory of India not included in a State, i.e. Union Territories, Parliament
has exclusive authority over court fees payable in the courts situated in any
Union Territory.
Prescription of Court Fees - legislative history
52\. Given the nature of the challenge under examination, it is also necessary
to delve into the history of the levy of court fees on litigating parties.
This has been traced by the Supreme Court in the judgment reported at (1996) 1
SCC 345 Secretary to the Govt. of Madras v. P.R. Sriramulu and another as
follows:
> ―6. ...Before the advent of British rule in India the administration of
> justice was considered to be the basic function of the State as guardian of
> the people without the levy of any charge on the party approaching the Court
> for redress of its grievance... It was only after the British rule that
> regulations imposing court fees were brought into existence. In the
> beginning the imposition of the fee was nominal but in the course of time it
> was enhanced gradually W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 26 of 531 under the
> impression that it would prevent the institution of frivolous and groundless
> litigation and as an effective deterrent to the abuse of process of the
> court without causing any impediment in the institution of just claims.‖
53\. The early legislative measures in India on court fees were the Madras
Regulation III of 1782, the Bengal Regulation Act XXXVIII of 1795 and the
Bombay Regulation VIII of 1802. Subsequently all provincial regulations were
amalgamated into a single legislation, the Court Fees Act XXVI of 1860. This
Act was also followed by subsequent legislation covering all of British India,
including Act XXVI of 1867. All court fees statutes were eventually repealed
by the ―Court Fees Act, 1870‖ (Act VII of 1870). The 1870 Act (hereinafter the
‗Act' or the ‗Central Act') has been amended from time to time since then, but
has not been repealed. The Central Act was extended to the Union Territory of
Delhi as amended by the Punjab Acts 4/1939.
54\. Though the Court Fees Act 1870 was applicable to the whole of British
India, the ‗Devolution Act 1920' (Act XXXVIII of 1920) empowered the
‗Provinces/ States' to amend the Court Fees Act, 1870 while making it
applicable to the concerned State/Province. The Devolution Act, 1920 has since
been repealed by the Repealing Act, 1938 (Act 1 of 1938). (189th Report of the
Law Commission of India at pp. 42)
55\. Because of Section 292 of the Government of India Act,
W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 27 of 531 1935, the Court Fees Act, 1870 continued to
be in force after 1935:
> ―Notwithstanding the repeal by this Act of the Government of India Act, but
> subject to the other provisions of this Act, all the laws in force in
> British India immediately before the commencement of Part III of this Act,
> shall continue to be in force in British India until altered or repealed or
> amended by a competent legislature or other competent authority.‖ (s. 292,
> Government of India Act, 1935) (Emphasis added)
56\. The proper meaning of the term ―competent legislature‖ as used in Section
292 of the Government of India Act, 1935, can be gleaned through Section 100
of the same Act:
> ―As per sub-section (1) of section 100 of the said Act of 1935, the Federal
> Legislature had exclusive power to make laws with respect to any of the
> matters enumerated in List I of the Seventh Schedule to that Act and under
> sub-section (3) thereof a provincial legislature alone had power to make
> laws with respect to any of the matters enumerated in List II of the said
> Seventh Schedule to that Act. The relevant entry relating to court - fees
> was Entry I of List II of the Seventh Schedule, which included ―fees taken
> in all courts except in Federal Court.‖ (189th Report at pp.
43-44) Thus, the above provisions demonstrate that ―the provincial legislature
became the competent legislature in respect of matters relating to the court
fees payable in all courts except the Federal Court.‖ W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page
28 of 531
57\. A decision of the Bombay High Court (M/s Brindalal v. M/s Gokal and
Haflman Ltd., AIR 1960 Bom 96) supports this view.
―Therefore, the Legislature competent to legislate in connection with court
fees was a Provincial Legislature and not the Federal or Central Legislature
because of the provisions of sub-section (3) of section
100\. ―Court fees‖ was very clearly within the exclusive legislative powers of
a Provincial Legislature after the coming into operation of the Government of
India Act, 1935 and the Federal Legislature did not have any such power. It is
quite clear that it was a Provincial Legislature alone which could alter,
repeal or amend the Court Fees Act, after the coming into operation of the
Government of India Act, 1935....Therefore, since the date of the coming into
operation of the Government of India Act, 1935 the Court Fees Act must be
deemed to have continued to be in operation in the various Provinces of India
as a Provincial Act passed by the appropriate Provincial Legislature and not
as a Central Act because the Provincial Legislatures alone had the power to
legislate in respect of court-fees.‖
58\. On 26th November, 1949, the Constituent Assembly adopted the Constitution
of India which was applicable to India described under Article 1 as a ―Union
of States‖. As per sub-clause 3 of Article 1, the Territory of India comprised
the territories of the States; Union Territories specified in the First
Schedule and such other territories as may be acquired.
59\. The Court Fees Act, 1870 also continued to remain in force after the
enactment of the Constitution of India on January 26 th, W.P.(C)No.4770/2012
page 29 of 531 1950, by virtue of Article 372 of the Constitution which
provides thus:
> ―372. Continuance in force of existing laws and their adaptation.-
> (1) Notwithstanding the repeal by this Constitution of the enactments
> referred to in Article 395 but subject to the other provisions of this
> Constitution, all the laws in force in the territory of India immediately
> before the commencement of this Constitution shall continue in force therein
> until altered or repealed or amended by a competent legislature or other
> competent authority.
> A pre-Constitutional law shall continue to be in force until altered,
> repealed, or amended by a competent Legislature, subject to the other
> provisions of the Constitution.‖
60\. Inasmuch as the Court Fees Act was implemented before the independence of
India, so far as its applicability after the independence is concerned,
reference also requires to be made to the Adaptation of Laws Order, 1950. The
Adaptation of Laws Order, 1950 consists of orders issued under the
Constitution of India and published with the Ministry of Law and Justice
(Legislative Department). The relevant portion is provided in Section 3 of the
Order which is reproduced as follows:-
―Adaptation of existing Central Laws-
3\. As from the appointed day, the existing Central laws mentioned in the
Schedules to this W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 30 of 531 Order shall, until
repealed or amended by a competent Legislature or other competent authority,
have effect subject to the adaptation and modifications directed by those
Schedules or if it is so directed shall stand repealed‖ The First Schedule to
the Adaptation of Laws Order 1950 mentions the Court Fees Act 1870 (VII of
1870) which therefore continued to have effect after 1950.
The Court Fees Act, 1870 and its applicability to Delhi
61\. So far as application of court fees to Delhi are concerned, after the
coming into force of the Constitution in 1950, the State Legislatures were
given exclusive power to make laws within their territory with respect to fees
for all courts but the Supreme Court [Article 246(3) read with Entry 3 of List
II in the Seventh Schedule]. There are two categories of States at present:
firstly, those that have adopted the central Court Fees Act of 1870 along with
local amendments; and secondly, those States that have repealed the Central
Act and enacted complete State laws on the subject.
62\. With respect to other territories, the Central Act has been extended to
new and merged States by the Merged States (Laws) Act, 1949, and to the Union
Territories of Manipur and Tripura (now States). In addition, the Central Act
has been extended to: Dadra and Nagar Haveli (Reg. 6 of 1963); Delhi (SRO 422
of 1951 W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 31 of 531 and GSR 842 of 1959); Goa (which is
now a State); Daman & Diu (Reg. 11 of 1963); and the Lakshadweep Islands (Reg.
8 of 1965 and Act 34 1973).
63\. The Court Fees Act, 1870 extended its application to the whole of India
except the territories which immediately before the 1st of November, 1956 were
comprised in Part B States. Here it may be mentioned that Delhi was a Part C
State and the Court Fees Act, 1870 was therefore extended to Delhi.
64\. So far as amendment to the Court Fees Act, 1870 in Delhi is concerned,
our attention has been drawn to two amendments effected prior to the impugned
amendment. On the 27th October, 1956, the Delhi State Legislative Assembly
notified the Court Fees Act, (Delhi Amendment) Act, 1956 (Act 15 of 1956) to
amend the Court Fees Act, 1870 (7 of 1870). Section 1 (2) of the Court Fees
(Delhi Amendment) Act, 2012 stated that the Act was to come into force on the
date it receives the assent of the President.
65\. This was before the States Reorganization Act, 1956 whereupon Delhi
became a Union Territory. Thereafter a further amendment was notified on the
16th of December, 1967 as the Court Fees (Delhi Amendment) Act, 1967 (No.28 of
1967) by the Parliament as ―an Act further to amend the Court Fees Act, 1870,
as in force in the Union Territory of Delhi.‖ This Act extended to the whole
of Union Territory of Delhi. The relevant W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 32 of 531
extract of Part 2 and 4 reads as follows:-
> ―2. In the Court-fees Act, 1870,(1 of 1870) as in force in the Union
> Territory of Delhi (hereinafter referred to as the principal Act), in
> section 4-\-
> (a) in the marginal heading to the first paragraph, for the words "in High
> Courts in their extraordinary jurisdiction", the words "in the High Court of
> Delhi in its ordinary or extraordinary jurisdiction" shall be substituted;
> (b) in the first paragraph, for the words "any of the said High Courts in
> any case coming before such Court in the exercise of its extraordinary
> original civil jurisdiction", the words "the High Court of Delhi in any case
> coming before that Court in the exercise of its ordinary or extraordinary
> original civil jurisdiction" shall be substituted;
> xxx xxx xxx
> 4\. (1) Notwithstanding anything contained in the principal Act or in the
> principal Act as amended by this Act, fees shall be levied in suits or other
> proceedings instituted on or after the 31st day of October, 1966, and
> pending immediately before the 7th October, 1967, in the High Court of Delhi
> by virtue, and in the exercise, of its ordinary original civil jurisdiction
> as if the principal Act, as amended by this Act, had been in force on the
> respective dates on which such suits or proceedings were instituted.
(2) Any fees levied in respect of suits or other proceedings instituted before
the High Court of Delhi by virtue, and in the exercise, of its ordinary
original civil jurisdiction, on or after the 31st day of October, 1966, and
disposed of before the 7th October, 1967, shall be deemed to have been levied
in accordance W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 33 of 531 with law.‖
66\. The above manifests that so far as the Union Territory of Delhi is
concerned, the statutory amendment with regard to court fee was effected by
the Parliament.
Factual background leading to the impugned legislation
67\. It is also necessary to examine the facts and reasons which weighed with
the Delhi Legislative Assembly to effect the impugned statutory amendments.
For this purpose the factual matrix laid down in the counter affidavit filed
on record deserved to be referred to.
68\. The respondents state that the amendment to the Court Fees Act was
enacted to fulfil the cherished and fundamental human and societal aspiration
of a more law abiding citizenry and an organized state/nation. It is stated in
the counter affidavit that ―to provide the fullest support for the best
infrastructure etc., for the administration of justice, GNCTD has consistently
and unflinchingly provided generous outlays to the justice system in the NCT
of Delhi. This commitment is reflective in the fact that presently 2% of the
entire State budget is being spent on for this purpose. It can safely be said
that this amount is the highest per capita expenditure in the entire country,
on the administration of justice. A chart (annexed herewith as Annexure -A
(Colly.)] comparing the per capita expenditure of some other States bears
W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 34 of 531 this out‖. It is further submitted that ―an
analysis of the monies expended towards administration of justice has grown
exponentially in the last decade itself. It is noteworthy that in the year
2001 and 2002, the expenditure on this account was Rs.77.81 crores, whereas
the court fees recovered was in the range of 11%- 12%. The expenditure outlay
for the current year i.e. 2012-2013 is about Rs.600 crores, i.e. an increase
of nearly 800%. In merely 5 years of the past decade, Rs.1698.2 crores was
spent on the administration of justice, whereas the recovery of court fees was
approximately Rs.149 crores, i.e. approximately 11%. A chart depicting the
expenditure and recovery of court fees in the NCT of Delhi, is annexed
herewith as Annexure-B (Colly). It is settled law that the State government
can recover fees for services rendered. The fee is payable only by a consumer
of justice and is not levied on all residents/domiciles in NCT of Delhi. It is
also a policy of good governance that these expenses should be recovered to a
reasonable extent so as to facilitate the strengthening of the infrastructure
and system of justice in the NCT of Delhi.‖
69\. A very material fact, essential for discharging the burden on the
respondents for supporting the constitutionality of the impugned legislation
is conspicuously missing from their affidavits and documents annexed. The
respondents have carefully withheld from the court all information of amounts
and grants received by it from the Central Government for expenditure on the
judiciary and their own budgetary outlay. This information is material, if not
W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 35 of 531 central to evaluation of the issue as
whether there is a lack of resources to find the judiciary; the extent of the
deficit; and most importantly, that the court fee prescription does not lead
to profiteering which is constitutionally impermissible.
70\. As per the counter affidavit, it is further stated that court fee ―...is
a source of recovery of expenses for the Government, which is made to ensure
the provision of an appropriate and sufficient infrastructure and financial
support for consistent and effective administration of justice...‖
71\. The following reasons for the impugned amendment are also discernible
from the counter affidavit:-
> (i) ―The court fees Schedules applicable in respect of NCT of Delhi were
> last amended in 1958 by the Punjab Government.‖
> (ii) ―A perusal of the Schedules of the Court Fees Act, 1870 makes it
> evident that the fees payable as on date is negligible in today's context.
> Indeed in certain cases, the value is so little that it loses all relevance.
> For example, the court fee payable on filing an application in a petition is
> a mere 40 paisa‖
> (iii) ―In many cases, the cost of issuing stamps and administering the
> payments of court fees is a lot more than the court fees actually collected
> against them.‖
> (iv) ―The States of Maharashtra, Gujarat, Karnataka and Rajasthan have
> already rationalized the rates of court fees. Furthermore, the Cost Price
> Index has multiplied many hundred times since 1958 (the year when the last
> amendment to the W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 36 of 531 Court Fees Act in
> respect of the NCT of Delhi was made). Therefore, it was only logical and
> financially prudent and indeed imperative that the court-fees structure be
> revised to make them realistic.‖
> (v) The Cost Price Index has risen considerably since the time the Court
> Fees Act, 1870 was enacted. Keeping in view the Cost Price Index, e-court-
> fees was proposed as given in a comparative chart in respect of Delhi
> whereby it was proposed to hike the same by 10 times in most of the cases.‖
72\. In answer to the petitioner's objections that by effecting the amendment
to the court fees, the Government of NCT of Delhi is putting ‗justice up for
sale', the respondents have urged that ―the Government of NCT of Delhi has
left no stone unturned to ensure that the system of administration of justice
in the NCT of Delhi is improved, modernized and well equipped with respect to
personnel, infrastructure, amenities etc. It is a universal truth that justice
is the force which binds a society or nation together. If the administration
of justice is prompt and responsive to the citizens/consumers of justice, it
builds faith in the rule of law. Thus, leading to a more law abiding citizenry
and consequently an organised state/nation.‖
73\. While denying the petitioner's complaint that the respondents are putting
‗justice up for sale', to source the permissibility of the power to recover
the court fees in the counter affidavit, the respondents have also stated as
follows:-
W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 37 of 531 ―...a tax is a compulsory exaction of money
by public authority for public purposes enforceable by law and is not a
payment for services rendered. A fee on the other hand, is a charge for
special service rendered to the individual by some governmental agency.‖
―...if the essential character of the levy is that some special service is
intented as quid pro quo to the class of citizens when is intended to be
benefited by the service and a broad and general correlation between the
amount so collected and the expenses incurred in providing the services is
found to exist, then such levy would partake the character of a ―fee‖,
irrespective of the fact that special services for which the amount by levy of
fee is collected incidentally and indirectly benefit the general public also.‖
―The co-relationship expected is one of a general character and not as of
arithmetical exactitude.‖ We note that the above pleadings are really an
extract from judicial precedents, as will be observed from the following
discussion.
74\. So far as the methodology adopted and procedure followed for effecting
the amendment is concerned, in para 5 of the counter affidavit, the
respondents have set out the same as follows:-
> ―5...it is submitted that the rationalization of court fees has been done
> with due diligence. A sub-
committee was constituted for this purpose, which went through the schedules
of court fees as appended to the Court Fees Act, 1870 and also examined the
rates of court fees charged in other States in W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 38 of
531 comparison to the rates charged in the NCT of Delhi. After a detailed
study and a careful analysis, the sub- committee recommended the revision of
court fees for the NCT of Delhi in the form of the draft Court Fees (Delhi
Amendment) Bill, to amend Section 26 of the Court Fees Act, 1870. The proposed
increase in the court fees was about ten times that of the existing rates, for
which Schedule I and Schedule II were to be amended. The Committee under the
chairmanship of the Principal Secretary (Law, Justice and Legislative
Affairs), Government of NCT of Delhi accepted the recommendations of the sub-
committee, subsequent to which, the approval of the Council of Ministers was
obtained, and thereafter the bill was placed before the Delhi Vidhan Sabha.
Pursuant to the advice of the Law and Justice Department, and taking into
consideration that the Court Fees Act, 1870 is a Central Legislation, a
request was made to the Secretary (Home), Government of India, for obtaining
prior approval of the Central Government. The Ministry of Home Affairs
examined the matter in consultation with the Ministry of Law and Justice and
thereafter the approval was granted. On receipt of the approval, the bill was
again placed before the Cabinet of Ministers and thereafter the amended bill
was introduced before the Assembly, which was then passed unanimously. The
Bill became an Act only after it received Presidential assent and the date of
amendment was notified as 01.08.2012, after the approval of the Lt. Governor.‖
(emphasis by us)
75\. In the counter affidavit the respondents disclose no dates or details of
the reference which was made to the Committee; or what was referred to the Sub
Committee; or of the dates on which the several steps leading up to the
notification of the amendment had W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 39 of 531 been
taken.
76\. In the hearing on 29th November, 2012, learned Senior Counsel for the
Government of NCT of Delhi had sought leave to place ―additional documents,
including relevant extracts on record in support of the Government's stand‖
before this court. Given the nature of the issue being raised by both the
sides, this request was deemed to be in the interest of justice and the
documents were directed to be placed on record within one week. The
respondents were also directed to keep available the original record for
consideration by the court.
77\. Instead of placing the documents, the respondents have filed before us a
copy of the SLP which was filed before the Supreme Court in the present
proceedings.
78\. So far as the process of deliberation to revise the court fees is
concerned, reference has been made by the respondents to a meeting of the
Committee of the High Court on 22nd July, 2010 wherein it was observed that
the Court Fees Act is required to be amended, apart from fulfilling other
procedural and legal formalities.
79\. The next reference is to a meeting held by the Principal Secretary (Law)
on 12th August, 2010 with officers of IT, Revenue and Finance Department. In
this meeting, it was decided to constitute a Sub-Committee to examine and
recommend amendments to the Court Fees Act, 1870. The Sub-Committee
W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 40 of 531 consisted of Mr. Manish Kumar Gaur -
Assistant Legal Advisor (Law Department); Mr. N.G. Goswami - legislative
counsel of the law department; Mr. J.M. Kalia - Legal Advisor (Income Tax
Department); Mr. Arvind Jain - Deputy Secretary (Finance); Mr. Ravinder Kumar
- SDM (Headquarters) - Revenue Department; and Ms. Savita Rao - Special
Secretary, Law/Justice & Legislative Affairs as Chairperson.
80\. The Sub-Committee compared the rates of the court fee in the States like
Maharashtra, Karnataka, Gujarat, Rajasthan vis-à-vis the rates in Delhi. It
looked at nothing else. On the basis of its analysis, the Sub-Committee
recommended the revision of court fees to be made in Delhi and the amendments
were in the form of a draft Court Fees (Delhi Amendment) Bill 2012 to amend
Schedule I and II as well as Section 26 in the Court Fees Act, 1870.
81\. The Committee under the Chairmanship of the Principal Secretary (Law,
Justice and Legislative Affairs) accepted the recommendations of the Sub-
Committee. Next, approval of the Council of Ministers was required before
placing the Bill in the Delhi Vidhan Sabha. A Cabinet Note was prepared to
this effect.
82\. So far as the extent of enhancement is concerned, the note for the
Council of Ministers discloses that ―the increase proposed in the court fee is
about 10 times of the existing rates for which Schedule I and Schedule II are
to be amended.‖
83\. Approval of the Council of Ministers was sought before
W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 41 of 531 placing the Bill in the Delhi Vidhan Sabha.
The comments of the Finance Department and Law Department were also enclosed.
The note of the Council of Ministers was approved by the Minister of Revenue
as well.
84\. The ―Statement of Objects and Reasons‖ enclosed with the note for
consideration of the Council of Ministers was prepared by the Revenue
department and stated as follows:-
> ―STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND REASONS There is no revision of court fee since
> 1958 while all kinds of duties and fees have been revised. Hon'ble Computer
> Committee of the Delhi High Court has asked the Government to start e-court
> fee in the Delhi High Court. Further, certain denominations viz. 40 paise,
> 25 paise, 50 paise etc are no more in use. Thus, revision of court fee has
> become necessary.
> Sd/-
> (D.M. SPOLIA) Principal Secretary (Revenue) Chief Controlling Revenue
> Authority, Delhi‖
85\. In the Financial Memorandum, the following statement by the Principal
Secretary (Revenue) was made:- ―FINANCIAL MEMORANDUM At present, the monthly
revenue generated on account of court fee is about Rs.3.5 - Rs.4 crores. The
revision is likely to increase is about 10 times to Rs.35-40 crores.
    W.P.(C)No.4770/2012                                    page 42 of 531
                                                          Sd/-
                                              (D.M. SPOLIA)
                                Principal Secretary (Revenue)
Chief Controlling Revenue Authority, Delhi‖
86\. Before finalizing, the draft note for the Council of Ministers and the
draft Court Fees (Delhi Amendment) Bill, 2011 was sent by the Revenue
Department, inviting the comments of the Law Department and advice on the
following points:-
> ―(i) Whether the approval of the Govt. of India is required while revising
> the court fees and for amending the Court Fees Act, 1870?
> (ii) Whether the proposed revision of court fees be referred to the Hon'ble
> Delhi High Court for their opinion/recommendations before sending the file
> for seeking the approval of the Cabinet?‖
87\. After examining the draft note, the Legislative Council has made inter
alia the following noting:-
> ―1. The subject-matter of the Bill is covered under Entry 3 of the State
> List (List II) of the Seventh Schedule of the Constitution, as such, the
> Legislative Assembly of the Delhi is competent to make the proposed
> amendment by virtue of sub-clause (a) of clause (3) of Article 239AA of the
> Constitution.
> 2\. The need for the proposed legislation from legal point of view appears
> to be justified.
> W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 43 of 531
> 3\. Regarding the consistency of the proposed enactment with the provisions
> of the Constitution, this aspect has been examined with particular reference
> to the provisions relating to Fundamental Rights. It does not seem to
> infringe the provisions of the Constitution including the provisions
> relating to fundamental rights.
> 4\. The provisions of the draft Bill are repugnant to the Court Fees Act,
> 1870, a law made by Parliament. As such, the provisions of sub- clause(c) of
> clause (3) of Article 239 AA of the Constitution and clause (a) of sub-rule
> (1) of Rule 55 of the Transaction of Business of the Government of National
> Capital Territory of Delhi Rules, 1993, are attracted for obtaining the
> approval of the Central Government before the introduction of the Bill in
> the Legislative Assembly of Delhi.
> 5\. xxx xxx xxx
> 6\. After the Bill has been passed by the Legislative Assembly and presented
> under Section 24 of the said Act to the Hon'ble Lieutenant Governor, the
> Lieutenant Governor shall reserve it for the consideration and assent of the
> President of India under the first proviso to sub-clause (c) of clause (3)
> of article 239AA of the Constitution to prevail the law as amended, in the
> NCT of Delhi.‖ (Emphasis by us)
88\. The draft Statement of Objects and Reasons and Memorandum were stated to
have been suitably amended. Interestingly, the Additional Secretary, (Law,
Justice and L.A.) endorsed a noting dated 5th May, 2011 on the above stating
that ―there is no need to incorporate Article 31 of the Draft proposed
W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 44 of 531 amendment in the Schedule, as it relates to
the bail application.‖
89\. The note for the Council of Ministers was circulated and placed before
it. By a noting dated 21st July, 2011 of the Principal Secretary, Chief
Minister had approved the Cabinet note and desired that the note be placed for
consideration of the Cabinet at the next meeting scheduled for 25th July,
2012.
The Cabinet note was circulated under cover of note date 22nd July, 2011.
90\. The proposal for the amendment of the Court Fees Act, 1870 was placed by
the Divisional Commissioner/Secretary (Revenue) before the Cabinet. The
Cabinet took its Decision No.1789 dated 25th July, 2011 approving the proposal
contained in para 9 of the Cabinet Note.
91\. The Secretary to the Cabinet, General Administration Department, GNCT of
Delhi by letter dated 27th July, 2011 intimated that the Cabinet vide Decision
No.1789 dated 25 th July, 2011 had considered the note of Divisional
Commissioner/Secretary (Revenue) and approved the same as contained in para 9
of the Cabinet Note relating to the amendment of the Court Fees Act. It was
also noted that the Court Fees Act, 1870 is a Central Act and it was necessary
to obtain the prior approval of Central Government for placing the Cabinet
Note, Draft Bill in Delhi Vidhan Sabha for seeking approval thereof. Approval
was sought for forwarding the file to the Lieutenant W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page
45 of 531 Governor, Delhi with the request to obtain the approval of the
Central Government for placing the same before the Delhi Legislative Assembly.
92\. The proposal for amendment of the Court Fees Act, 1870 in its application
to the National Capital of Delhi was sent to the Secretary, Government of
India of the Ministry of Home Affairs vide letter dated 12th August, 2011 by
the Principal Secretary to the Lieutenant Governor. After referring to the
afore noticed Cabinet approval, the office of the Lieutenant Governor informed
the following:-
> ―Following the Cabinet approval, the Hon'ble Lt. Governor, Delhi has also
> accorded approval for the same.
> The Court Fees Act, 1870 is a Central Act. Hence the prior approval of
> Central Government is necessary before placing the same in Delhi Vidhan
> Sabha. A copy of the draft amendment Bill along with Financial Memorandum,
> the Cabinet Decision and the Cabinet Note are enclosed herewith for seeking
> approval of Central Government.
> It is therefore, requested to communicate the approval of Central Government
> for introducing the aforesaid Bill and Cabinet Note for its application to
> the NCT of Delhi in Delhi Vidhan Sabha at the earliest.
> This reference is being made with the approval of the Lt. Governor, Delhi.‖
93\. Mr. Chandhiok has vehemently objected to the failure of the
W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 46 of 531 respondents to place on the writ record the
enclosures to the letter dated 12th August, 2011. The original record produced
before us shows that along with the letter dated 12th August, 2011, the
respondents have enclosed the following documents:
             (i)     A copy of the draft amendment Bill,
             (ii)    The Financial Memorandum,
(iii) The Cabinet Decision and the Cabinet Note dated 27.07.2011.
Given the nature and impact of enhanced court fee proposed by the Amendment
Bill, these documents by themselves are not sufficient to establish the need
for the Government of NCT of Delhi to effect the impugned amendments.
94\. The noting dated 2nd September, 2011 notes that the Government of India,
Ministry of Home Affairs, New Delhi had sought a statement indicating the
existing statutory provisions vis- à-vis proposed provisions, including the
existing fee vis-à-vis the proposed fee in respect of the proposed amendment
which was required for getting the approval of the Central Government for
introducing the Bill and the Cabinet note for the Delhi Vidhan Sabha. A
further noting refers to a draft letter for the Ministry of Home Affairs
which, however, is not placed before us. The comparative statement sought by
the Government of India of the existing and proposed statutory provisions does
not appear to have W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 47 of 531 been prepared or given
to the Central Government. It is not forthcoming in the record placed before
us.
95\. The Central Government conveyed ―its prior approval‖ for introduction of
the Court Fees (Delhi Amendment) Bill, 2011 in the Legislative Assembly of
Delhi. It was also mentioned in this letter that since the Bill has not been
vetted by the Legislative Department of the Ministry of Law and Justice, the
same may be got vetted by the Law Department of the Government of NCT of Delhi
before introduction in the Legislative Assembly and that two copies of the
Bill, as introduced in the Assembly, be sent to the Ministry of Home Affairs.
96\. The Principal Secretary to the Lieutenant Governor, under cover of the
letter no. U.O.No.38(1)/RN/2012/678/6782 dated 10th May, 2012 duly informed
the above requirement to the Principal Secretary (Law Judicial and L.A.) GNCT,
Delhi, as well as Principal Secretary (Revenue) GNCT, Delhi.
97\. The proposal for sending the matter to the Central Government was
approved by the Lieutenant Governor and informed by the Additional Secretary
to the Lieutenant Governor by noting dated 28th May, 2012.
98\. The matter thereafter proceeded in the Department of Revenue for
introduction of the Court Fee (Delhi Amendment) Bill, 2012.
W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 48 of 531
99\. After the Bill was passed by the Vidhan Sabha, the respondents started
taking steps for obtaining the assent of the President.
100\. This was in terms of the noting dated 11th June, 2012 by the Principal
Secretary (Law, Justice and L.A.) which inter alia records the following:-
> ―As the Bill seeks to amend the Court Fees Act, 1870 which is an Act made by
> Parliament, so, if the proposed Amendment Act is to prevail in the National
> Capital Territory of Delhi, then, under the first proviso to sub-clause(c)
> of clause (3) of Article 239 AA of the Constitution, it will be reserved for
> the consideration and assent of the President.
> Under the said Transaction of Business Rules, I recommend that the Court
> Fees (Delhi Amendment) Bill, 2012 as passed by the Legislative Assembly of
> Delhi may be reserved by the Hon'ble Lt. Governor for the consideration and
> assent of the President of India under the proviso of Article 239 AA (3) (c)
> of the Constitution.‖
101\. So far as the proposed amendment is concerned, it is the respondent's
stand in the counter affidavit dated 4th January, 2013 that the proposal to
amend the Schedule of the Court Fees Act essentially being a Finance Bill, was
referred to the Lieutenant Governor of Delhi as per law before introducing the
Bill in the Legislative Assembly. Since the Bill sought to amend a Central
legislation, the same was further referred by the Lieutenant
W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 49 of 531 Governor of Delhi to the Government of
India through the Ministry of Home Affairs, for prior approval of the Central
Government, vide letter dated 12th August, 2011.
102\. The respondents have placed before us a note prepared by the Revenue
Department of the Government of NCT of Delhi for the Council of Ministers. In
the ‗Introduction', the Revenue Department has clearly stated that ―court fee
is a source of revenue to the Government.‖
103\. So far as need for revision is concerned, the following reasons are
disclosed:-
―(i) Court fee payable as on date is negligible in today's context.
(ii) In certain cases, the value is so little that it has lost its relevance.
In many cases, the cost of issuing stamp and administering the payment of
court fee may be more than the fee collected.
(iii) There is an immediate need to rationalize the fee structure. States like
Maharashtra, Gujarat, Karnataka and Rajasthan have already rationalized the
rate of court fee.
(iv) The Cost Price Index has risen considerably since 1958, i.e., since the
last revision in respect of Delhi.
(v) The Computer Committee of Delhi High Court has recommended the initiation
of the e-court fee project to collect court fee though a computerized
process.‖
104\. The respondents have placed before this court the W.P.(C)No.4770/2012
page 50 of 531 communication dated 15th June, 2012 sent by the Principal
Secretary to the Lieutenant Governor, to the Secretary to the Government of
India, Ministry of Home Affairs referring to the approval of the Central
Government dated 20 th April, 2011 to the introduction of the impugned
amendments for the Legislative Assembly of Delhi. The office of the Lieutenant
Governor has informed the Ministry of Home Affairs of the Central Government
to the effect that the Bill was ―introduced in the Legislative Assembly of
Delhi and has been passed by it on 4 th June, 2012 without any amendments.‖ It
was further informed therein to the effect that ―as the Bill relates to
amendments of the Court Fees Act, 1870, which is a law made by the Parliament,
Lt. Governor, Delhi has reserved the said Bill, as passed by the Legislative
Assembly, for consideration and assent of the President of India under proviso
of sub-clause (c) of clause (3) of Article 239 AA of the Constitution and Rule
55(1)(a) of the Transaction of Business of the National Capital Territory of
Delhi Rules, 1993.
Three original copies of the above mentioned Bill, duly authenticated by the
Speaker of the Legislative Assembly of Delhi and endorsed by Lt. Governor,
Delhi are enclosed.
It is requested that assent of the President to the above Bill as envisaged
under proviso of sub-clause (c) of clause (3) of Article 239 AA of the
Constitution and rule 55(1)(a) of the Transaction of Business of the National
Capital Territory of W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 51 of 531 Delhi Rules, 1993 may
please be obtained and conveyed to this Secretariat at the earliest.‖
105\. The Ministry of Home Affairs, Government of India thereafter informed
the office of the Lieutenant Governor, Delhi by a letter dated 6th July, 2012
that the proposed amendments had received the assent of the President on 4th
July, 2012 and that two copies of the Bill were enclosed.
106\. The respondents further inform that on the 4th of July, 2012, the Court
Fee (Delhi Amendment) Act, 2012 (Delhi Act 11 of 2012) received Presidential
assent and was brought into force by notification dated 31st July, 2012 issued
by the Lieutenant Governor.
107\. It is now necessary to consider in seriatim the grounds of challenge
pressed by the petitioners and the objections of the respondents in the writ
petitions. For the purposes of convenience of reference, we are first setting
out the headings under which we have considered the several issues raised
before us. We also set out the paragraphs where the issue is considered as
follows:
108\. The challenge in the present case has been made by the petitioners and
resisted on certain very important points. Given the magnitude of the
challenge, we have divided our consideration under the following headings:
I The Delhi Legislative Assembly did not have the legislative competence to
effect the impugned legislation W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 52 of 531 (paras 109
- 190) II Purpose of Statement of Objects and Reasons in a legislation-
whether essential and whether it is an aid to legislative interpretation?
(paras 191 -210) III Can legislative history; social context; writings of
experts/ authors; reports of commissions/committees preceding the enactment be
utilized by the court as permissible external aids to construction of
legislation? (paras 211 - 222) IV Is the assent of the President justiciable?
Scope and extent of the permissible enquiry by the court (paras 223
\- 371) (V) The legislative action is manifestly arbitrary and the legislation
suffers from substantive unreasonableness rendering it ultra vires of Article
14 (paras 372 - 476) (VI) Court fee is recovered only from a litigant: the
concept of a ―user fee‖ (paras 477 - 518) (VII) Whether the levy in the
present case partakes the character of a tax? (paras 519 - 530) (VIII)Access
to justice: a right, not a privilege; optimum level of court fee to be
assessed by capacity of not just the economically well placed, but also the
capacity of the poor and those on the border line (paras 531 - 712) (IX) Fee
exemption and waivers-forma pauperis litigation (paras 713 - 737) (X)
Expenditure on the judiciary (paras 738 - 782) (XI) Past recommendations for
total abolition, or, in any case, reduction of court fee need reiteration
(paras 783 - 794) (XII) Impact of new legislation (paras 795 - 804)
W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 53 of 531 (XIII) Mere hardship would not ipso facto
be a ground for striking down a statutory provision (paras 805 -
806) (XIV) Presumption of constitutionality in favour of a legislation (paras
807 - 814) (XV) Court Fee - a matter of fiscal policy - Scope of judicial
review (paras 815 - 822) (XVI) Whether amount collected as court fee to be
spent entirely on administration of justice? (paras 822 -
827) (XVII) Judicial precedents on challenges to enhancement of court fee
(paras 828 - 847) (XVIII) Whether the above judgments on the challenges to
court fees would preclude the present examination by this court (paras 848 -
875) (XIX) Vexatious Litigation (paras 876 - 884) (XX) Insufficient pleadings
and no material in support (paras 885 - 891) (XXI) Whether the impugned
legislation adversely impacts the rule making power as well as the
jurisdiction of this court (paras 892 - 907) (XXII) Legislative procedure
prescribed under the Govt.
of NCT of Delhi Act, 1991 and National Capital Territory of Delhi (Transaction
of Business Rules), 1993 not followed by the Government of NCT of Delhi (paras
908 - 925) (XXIII) Conflict between substantive provisions of the Court Fees
Act, 1870 and the impugned amendment (paras 926 - 936) (XXIV) Whether the
Government of NCT of Delhi was W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 54 of 531 prohibited
from enhancing court fee by virtue of Section 35 of the Court Fees Act, 1870
(paras 937 -
                    945)
    (XXV)           The   Delhi     High      Court         Committee's
                    recommendations (paras 946 - 947)
We now propose to discuss the above issues in seriatim.
I The Delhi Legislative Assembly did not have the legislative competence to
effect the impugned legislation The discussion on this subject is being
considered under the following sub-headings:
> (i) Respondents‟ stand on the objection of legislative competence.
> (ii) Status of Legislative Assembly of Delhi.
> (iii) On the subject of court fees, there is pre-existing Central
> Legislation which occupies the field. For this reason as well, the Delhi
> Legislative Assembly has no competence to enact law or amend it
> (iv) Whether Lists in the Seventh Schedule are a substantive source of power
> for the Parliament and the State Legislatures?
109\. It is argued by the petitioners that the Delhi Legislative Assembly is
not vested with the legislative competence to make any law which would amount
to a repeal of or amendment of an existing Parliamentary law. It is the
Parliament alone which under sub-clause (a) of Article 239AA (3) has the power
to amend and alter the legislation and that no such corresponding power has
been W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 55 of 531 given to the Legislative Assembly of
the NCT of Delhi under Article 239AA.
Respondents‟ stand on the objection of legislative competence
110\. It is firstly essential to examine the respondents' claim as to the
source of the respondents power to enact and effect the impugned amendment.
The respondents have extensively referred to the exclusive power conferred by
Article 246(3) of a State to make laws for such State or any part thereof in
respect of any of the matters contained in List II of the 7th Schedule to the
Constitution of India. In the counter affidavit dated 6th September, 2012
also, the respondents have sourced their power to legislate to Entry 3 List II
of the 7th Schedule to the Constitution of India. It is contended that the
power to legislate on the subject of fees taken in all courts except the
Supreme Court vests therefore, exclusively in the State Government.
111\. In this regard, the respondents have also cited Entry 77 in List I which
gives/empowers the Union of India the right to legislate on the subject of
‗constitution, organization, jurisdiction and powers of Supreme Court
(including contempt of such court) and the fees taken thereon; persons
entitled to practice before the Supreme Court'.
112\. So far as the authority of the Government of NCT of Delhi is concerned,
the respondents have referred to Article 239AA(3)(a) of the Constitution to
contend that the same empowers the W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 56 of 531
Government of NCT of Delhi (Union Territory) to ‗legislate on any of the
matters enumerated in List II (State List) except on Entries 1, 2 and 18 of
the State List and Entries 64, 65 and 66 of that List in so far as they relate
to the said Entries 1, 2 and 18'. On the basis of these constitutional
provisions, it is urged that the Government of NCT of Delhi has the exclusive
power to legislate on the subject matter of the court fees chargeable in all
courts within the State, except the Supreme Court and that it was
legislatively competent to amend the Court Fees Act, 1870 with respect to fees
chargeable in Delhi.
Status of Legislative Assembly of Delhi
113\. It would at first blush appear that the Delhi Legislature has the
required competence to pass laws with respect to the High Court and other
subordinate court fees in Delhi. Before so concluding it is necessary to
consider the status of Delhi under the Constitution especially on inclusion of
Article 239 AA therein. Another question which bodes an answer is whether the
creation of the Delhi Legislative Assembly by the Government of National
Capital Territory of Delhi Act, 1991 (enacted by the Parliament in exercise of
power under Article 239AA) has the effect of transforming the status of Delhi
from a Union Territory to that of a State?
114\. Mr. Chandhiok learned Senior Counsel for the petitioner has
painstakingly pointed out that unlike the Parliament which has
W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 57 of 531 been created under the Constitution, the
Delhi Legislative Assembly is a creation of a statute, i.e, the Government of
NCT of Delhi Act, 1991.
115\. Mr. Chandhiok has referred to Article 1(2) and Article 1(3)(a) which
deal with the geographic distribution of the territory of India between the
Union Territories and States and require to be considered in extenso. For the
purposes of convenience, the same are set out hereafter:-
> ―1. Name and territory of the Union (1) India, that is Bharat, shall be a
> Union of States.
> [(2) The States and Territories thereof shall be a specified in the First
> Schedule.] (3) The territory of the India shall comprise-
> (a) the territories of the States;
> (b) the Union territories specified in the First Schedule; and
> (c) such other territories as may be acquired;
> xxx
> 3\. Formation of new States and alteration of areas, boundaries or names of
> existing States.-
> Parliament may by law-
> (a) form a new State by separation of territory from any State or by uniting
> two or more States or parts of States or by uniting any territory to a part
> of any State;
> W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 58 of 531
> (b) increase the area of any State;
> (c) diminish the area of any State;
> (d) alter the boundaries of any State;
> (e) alter the name of any State:
> Provided that no Bill for the purpose shall be introduced in either House of
> Parliament except on the recommendation of the President and unless, where
> the proposal contained in the Bill affects the area, boundaries or name of
> any of the States, the Bill has been referred by the President to the
> Legislature of that State for expressing its views thereon within such
> period as may be specified in the reference or within such further period as
> the President may allow and the period so specified or allowed has expired.‖
116\. As a challenge has been raised by the petitioner to the legislative
competence of the Legislative Assembly of Delhi to effect the statutory
amendment, it is also necessary to reflect on the Constitutional provisions
regarding the legislative relations between the Union and the States as
contained in Part II of the Constitution of India and provisions thereto.
Articles 245, 246 and Schedule VII of the Constitution have been extracted
earlier in this judgment.
117\. As noted above, prior to the enactment of the States Reorganization Act
on the 1st of November 1956, the territory of Delhi was a ‗State'. Upon this
legislation coming into force, Delhi was constituted as a Union Territory and
was also placed at serial W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 59 of 531 no.1 of the list
of Union Territories in Schedule I of the Constitution of India.
118\. By virtue of the Constitution (Sixty-ninth) Amendment Act, 1991 with
effect from 1st February 1992, Article 239 AA was inserted in the Constitution
of India whereby a Legislative Assembly and a Council of Ministers would be
established for the National Capital Territory of Delhi. Clause 7(a) of
Article 239AA provided that the Parliament may, by law, make provisions for
giving effect to or supplementing the provisions contained in the foregoing
clauses and for all the matters incidental or consequential thereto.
119\. Inasmuch as extensive reliance is placed on Article 239AA and reference
made to Article 254 of the Constitution, for convenience the relevant extract
of these provisions are reproduced hereunder:
> ―239AA. Special provisions with respect to Delhi.- (1) As from the date of
> commencement of the Constitution (Sixty-ninth Amendment) Act, 1991, the
> Union Territory of Delhi shall be called the National Capital Territory of
> Delhi (hereafter in this Part referred to as the National Capital Territory)
> and the administrator thereof appointed under article 239 shall be
> designated as the Lieutenant Governor. (2) (a) There shall be a Legislative
> Assembly for the National Capital Territory and the seats in such Assembly
> shall be filled by members chosen by direct election from territorial
> constituencies in the National Capital Territory.
    W.P.(C)No.4770/2012                                     page 60 of 531
                       xxx            xxx           xxx
            (3) (a) Subject to the provisions of this
> Constitution, the Legislative Assembly shall have power to make laws for the
> whole or any part of the National Capital Territory with respect to any of
> the matters enumerated in the State List or in the Concurrent List in so far
> as any such matter is applicable to Union territories except matters with
> respect to Entries 1, 2 and 18 of the State List and Entries 64, 65 and 66
> of that List in so far as they relate to the said Entries 1, 2, and 18.
> (b) Nothing in sub-clause (a) shall derogate from the powers of Parliament
> under this Constitution to make laws with respect to any matter for a Union
> Territory or any part thereof.
> (c) If any provision of a law made by the Legislative Assembly with respect
> to any matter is repugnant to any provision of a law made by Parliament with
> respect to that matter, whether passed before or after the law made by the
> Legislative Assembly, or of an earlier law, other than a law made by the
> Legislative Assembly, then, in either case, the law made by Parliament, or,
> as the case may be, such earlier law, shall prevail and the law made by the
> Legislative Assembly shall, to the extent of the repugnancy, be void:
> Provided that if any such law made by the Legislative Assembly has been
> reserved for the consideration of the President and has received his assent,
> such law shall prevail in the National Capital Territory:
Provided further that nothing in this sub-clause shall prevent Parliament from
enacting at any time any law with respect to the same matter including a
W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 61 of 531 law adding to, amending, varying or
repealing the law so made by the Legislative Assembly.
xxx xxx xxx [(7)(a)] Parliament may, by law, make provisions for giving effect
to, or supplementing the provisions contained in the foregoing clauses and for
all matters incidental or consequential thereto.‖ (Emphasis supplied)
120\. It is manifest from a bare reading of Article 239AA that it had the
effect of only changing the nomenclature of Delhi from the ‗Union Territory of
Delhi' to the ‗Government of NCT of Delhi'. Furthermore sub clause (a) of
Article 239AA(3) enables its legislature to legislate with respect to matters
in the State List insofar as any such matter is applicable to ‗Union
Territories' and that too, subject to exceptions.
121\. In exercise of the powers conferred by Clause 7(a) of Article 239AA of
the Constitution, the Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi Bill
was proposed and passed by both the Houses of the Parliament. It received the
assent of the President on 2nd January, 1992. It took effect as the
‗Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi Act, 1991' (1 of 1992).
122\. This enactment was amended by The Government of Union Territories and
The Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi (Amendment) Act, 2001
(38 of 2001). The preamble of this Act states that it was enacted to
supplement the provisions of the W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 62 of 531
Constitution relating to the Legislative Assembly and a Council of Ministers
for the National Capital Territory of Delhi and for matters connected
therewith or incidental thereto.
123\. We may also examine the constitutional provisions which are concerned
with inconsistencies between laws made by the Parliament and State
Legislatures. Article 254 which is relevant in this regard reads thus:
> 254\. Inconsistency between laws made by Parliament and laws made by the
> Legislatures of States.- (1) If any provision of a law made by the
> Legislature of a State is repugnant to any provision of a law made by
> Parliament which Parliament is competent to enact, or to any provision of an
> existing law with respect to one of the matters enumerated in the Concurrent
> List, then, subject to the provisions of clause (2), the law made by
> Parliament, whether passed before or after the law made by the Legislature
> of such State, or, as the case may be, the existing law, shall prevail and
> the law made by the Legislature of the State shall, to the extent of the
> repugnancy, be void.
> (2) Where a law made by the Legislature of a State with respect to one of
> the matters enumerated in the Concurrent List contains any provision
> repugnant to the provisions of an earlier law made by Parliament or an
> existing law with respect to that matter, then, the law so made by the
> Legislature of such State shall, if it has been reserved for the
> consideration of the President and has received his assent, prevail in that
> State:
Provided that nothing in this clause shall prevent Parliament from enacting at
any time any law with W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 63 of 531 respect to the same
matter including a law adding to, amending, varying or repealing the law so
made by the Legislature of the State.‖
124\. It is important to note that while incorporating Article 239AA in the
Constitution, the Parliament did not effect any amendment to Articles 245,
246, which are concerned with division of powers or in Article 254. A perusal
of Article 254 manifests that it refers to inconsistencies between legislation
by the Parliament on the one hand and those by the States on the other.
Articles 245 and 246 also refer to laws by the Parliament and the States. No
reference is made to legislation by legislative assemblies of Union
Territories.
125\. Even more significant is the placement of the 69th constitutional
amendment re-naming Delhi as ―National Capital Territory of Delhi‖ and
providing for legislation to create a Legislative Assembly for Delhi. Article
239AA has been placed in Part VIII of the Constitution which is titled as
―Union Territories‖. So far as States are concerned, they fall under Part VI
of the Constitution.
126\. A conjoint reading of Article 1 and Article 239AA clearly shows that
incorporation of Article 239 AA did not have any effect on the status of
Delhi. Renamed as the National Capital Territory of Delhi, it was not
transformed into a State. So far as the status of Delhi is concerned, it
remains a Union Territory.
W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 64 of 531
127\. On the issue of who would be competent to legislate for the Union
Territories and the scope of Article 246(4), the Constitution Bench of the
Supreme Court speaking through Bachawat, J. in T.M. Kanniyan v. ITO [(1968) 2
SCR 103 : AIR 1968 SC 637 : 68 ITR 244, (SCR p. 108-11) held thus:
> ―Parliament has plenary power to legislate for the Union Territories with
> regard to any subject. With regard to Union Territories there is no
> distribution of legislative power. Article 246(4) enacts that ‗Parliament
> has power to make laws with respect to any matter for any part of the
> territory of India not included in a State notwithstanding that such matter
> is a matter enumerated in the State List.' In R.K. Sen v. Union [(1966) 1
> SCR 430 : AIR 1966 SC 644] it was pointed out that having regard to Article
> 367, the definition of ‗State' in Section 3(58) of the General Clauses Act,
> 1897 applies for the interpretation of the Constitution unless there is
> anything repugnant in the subject or context. Under that definition, the
> expression ‗State' as respects any period after the commencement of the
> Constitution (Seventh Amendment) Act, 1956 ‗shall mean a State specified in
> the First Schedule to the Constitution and shall include a Union Territory'.
> But this inclusive definition is repugnant to the subject and context of
> Article 246. There, the expression ‗State' means the States specified in the
> First Schedule. There is a distribution of legislative power between
> Parliament and the legislatures of the States. Exclusive power to legislate
> with respect to the matters enumerated in the State List is assigned to the
> legislatures of the States established by Part VI. There is no distribution
> of legislative power with respect to Union Territories.
That is why Parliament is given power by Article 246(4) to legislate even with
respect to matters W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 65 of 531 enumerated in the State
List. If the inclusive definition of ‗State' in Section 3(58) of the General
Clauses Act were to apply to Article 246(4), Parliament would have no power to
legislate for the Union Territories with respect to matters enumerated in the
State List and until a legislature empowered to legislate on those matters is
created under Article 239 A for the Union Territories, there would be no
legislature competent to legislate on those matters; moreover, for certain
territories such as the Andaman and Nicobar Islands no legislature can be
created under Article 239 A, and for such territories there can be no
authority competent to legislate with respect to matters enumerated in the
State List. Such a construction is repugnant to the subject and context of
Article 246. It follows that in view of Article 246(4), Parliament has plenary
powers to make laws for Union Territories on all matters. Parliament can by
law extend the Income Tax Act, 1961 to a Union Territory with such
modifications as it thinks fit...‖ (Emphasis added)
128\. It is well settled then that the Parliament alone is competent to
legislate for Union Territories on all matters.
129\. So far as Delhi is concerned it is necessary to keep in mind the impact
of Article 239AA. We find that this question is not being raised for the first
time. Several binding pronouncements of the Supreme Court and this court
(including a Full Bench adjudication) have been placed before us by the
petitioners. Before commenting on the question raised herein, we propose to
refer to the prior judicial consideration on it.
130\. We may first and foremost refer to the consideration of this
W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 66 of 531 issue by the Supreme Court in the judgment
reported at (1997) 7 SCC 339, New Delhi Municipal Council v. State of Punjab &
Others. This case was concerned with the issue as to whether the properties of
the States situated in the Union Territory of Delhi stood exempted from
property taxation levied under the Municipal enactment which was in force in
the Union Territory of Delhi. The question was as to whether the property
taxation under two Municipal Acts, one being the Delhi Municipal Corporation
Act, 1957 and the other being The Punjab Municipal Act, 1911 both applicable
in Delhi, constituted Union taxation or not. The issue of the legislative
competence of the Delhi Legislature to legislate by virtue of Article 239AA,
the interpretation and impact of Clause 3(b), (c) and proviso thereto has been
considered in both the majority and the minority views in the judgment and
identical findings on this particular issue have been returned on the plenary
power of the Parliament to legislate with regard to Delhi. The authoritative
pronouncement by the court on these aspects binds our consideration on the
issue of the legislative competence of the Delhi Legislature to legislate on
the subject matter as well as the scope of its jurisdiction. The court ruled
as follows:-
> ―87. It has been urged that when Parliament legislates for Union Territories
> in exercise of powers under Article 246(4), it is a situation similar to
> those enumerated above and is to be treated as an exceptional situation, not
> forming part of the ordinary constitutional scheme and hence falling outside
> the ambit of ―Union taxation‖. Having analysed the scheme of Part VIII of
> the Constitution including the W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 67 of 531 changes
> wrought into it, we are of the view that despite the fact that, of late,
> Union Territories have been granted greater powers, they continue to be very
> much under the control and supervision of the Union Government for their
> governance. Some clue as to the reasons for the recent amendments in Part
> VIII may be found in the observations of this Court in Ramesh Birch case
> [1989 Supp (1) SCC 430] , which we have extracted earlier. It is possible
> that since Parliament may not have enough time at its disposal to enact
> entire volumes of legislations for certain Union Territories, it may decide,
> at least in respect of those Union Territories whose importance is enhanced
> on account of the size of their territories and their geographical location,
> that they should be given more autonomy in legislative matters. However,
> these changes will not have the effect of making such Union Territories as
> independent as the States. This point is best illustrated by referring to
> the case of the National Capital Territory of Delhi which is today a Union
> Territory and enjoys the maximum autonomy on account of the fact that it has
> a legislature created by the Constitution. However, clauses (3)(b) and
> (3)(c) of Article 239 AA make it abundantly clear that the plenary power to
> legislate upon matters affecting Delhi still vests with Parliament as it
> retains the power to legislate upon any matter relating to Delhi and, in the
> event of any repugnancy, it is the parliamentary law which will prevail. It
> is, therefore, clear that Union Territories are in fact under the
> supervision of the Union Government and it cannot be contended that their
> position is akin to that of the States. Having analysed the relevant
> constitutional provisions as also the applicable precedents, we are of the
> view that under the scheme of the Indian Constitution, the position of the
> Union Territories cannot be equated with that of the States. Though they do
> have a separate identity W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 68 of 531 within the
> constitutional framework, this will not enable them to avail of the
> privileges available to the States.‖ (Emphasis added)
131\. In para 136 of New Delhi Municipal Council (supra) the court considered
the impact of Article 239AA and the above principle was further expanded in
its context in the following terms:-
> ―136. By the Constitution Sixty-Ninth (Amendment) Act, 1991, Article 239 AA
> was introduced in Part VIII of the Constitution. This article renamed the
> Union Territory of Delhi as the "National Capital Territory of Delhi" and
> provided that there shall be a Legislative Assembly for such National
> Capital Territory. The Legislative Assembly so created was empowered by
> Clause (3) of the said article ‗to make laws for the whole or any part of
> the National Capital Territory with respect to any of the matters enumerated
> in the State List or in the Concurrent List insofar as any such matter is
> applicable to Union Territories except matters with respect to Entries 1, 2
> and 18 of the State List and Entries 64, 65 and 66 of that List insofar as
> they relate to the said Entries 1, 2 and 18.
> Clause (3) further provided that the power conferred upon the Legislative
> Assembly of Delhi by the said article shall not derogate from the powers of
> Parliament "to make laws with respect to any matter for a Union Territory or
> any part thereof". It further provided that in the case of repugnancy, the
> law made by Parliament shall prevail, whether the parliamentary law is
> earlier or later to the law made by the Delhi Legislative Assembly.
> W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 69 of 531 Parliament is also empowered to amend,
> vary or repeal any law made by the Legislative Assembly. Article 239 AA came
> into force with effect from 1.2.1992. Pursuant to the article, Parliament
> enacted the Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi Act, 1991. It
> not only provided for constitution of a Legislative Assembly but also its
> powers as contemplated by Article 239 AA. This Act too came into force on
> 1.2.1992. The subordinate status of the Delhi Legislature is too obvious to
> merit any emphasis.‖ (Emphasis by us)
132\. In the majority judgment, on the question of constitution of legislative
assemblies for Union Territories, and the import of these assemblies for Union
Territories with regard to Article 246, it was further observed as follows:-
> ―145. It is relevant to point out that in clauses (2) and (3), as originally
> enacted -- and up to the Seventh (Amendment) Act -- the expression ―State‖
> was followed by the words ―specified in Part A or Part B of the First
> Schedule‖. Similarly, the words, ―in a State‖ in clause (3), were followed
> by the words ―in Part A or Part B of the First Schedule‖. In other words,
> clauses (2) and (3) of Article 246 expressly excluded Part ‗C' and Part ‗D'
> States from their purview. The position is no different after the
> Constitution Seventh (Amendment) Act, which designated the Part C States as
> Union Territories. They ceased to be States. As rightly pointed out by a
> Constitution Bench of this Court in T.M.
Kanniyan [(1968) 2 SCR 103: AIR 1968 SC 637: 68 ITR 244], the context of
Article 246 excludes Union Territories from the ambit of the expression
―State‖ occurring therein. As a matter of fact, this is true of
W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 70 of 531 Chapter I of Part XI of the Constitution as
a whole. It may be remembered that during the period intervening between the
Constitution Seventh (Amendment) Act, 1956 and the Constitution Fourteenth
(Amendment) Act, 1962, there was no provision for a legislature for any of the
Union Territories. Article 239 A in Part VIII -- ―The Union Territories‖ --
(which before the Seventh Amendment was entitled ―The States in Part C of the
First Schedule‖) introduced by the Constitution Fourteenth (Amendment) Act did
not itself create a legislature for Union Territories; it merely empowered
Parliament to create them for certain specified Union Territories (excluding
Delhi) and to confer upon them such powers as Parliament may think
appropriate. Thus, the legislatures created for certain Union Territories
under the 1963 Act were not legislatures in the sense used in Chapter III of
Part VI of the Constitution, but were mere creatures of Parliament -- some
sort of subordinate legislative bodies. They were unlike the legislatures
contemplated by Chapter III of Part VI of the Constitution which are supreme
in the field allotted to them, i.e., in the field designated by List II of the
Seventh Schedule. The legislatures created by the 1963 Act for certain Union
Territories owe their existence and derive their powers from the Act of
Parliament and are subject to its overriding authority. In short, the State
Legislatures contemplated by Chapter I of Part XI are the legislatures of
States referred to in Chapter III of Part VI and not the legislatures of Union
Territories created by the 1963 Act. Union Territories are not States for the
purposes of Part XI (Chapter I) of the Constitution...‖
133\. In para 145 above, the Supreme Court has relied upon the
W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 71 of 531 Constitution Bench pronouncement in T.M.
Kanniyan (supra).
134\. In New Delhi Municipal Council (supra), the Supreme Court specifically
considered the status of the legislative assembly of the NCT of Delhi and in
para 152 held as follows:-
> ―152. On a consideration of rival contentions, we are inclined to agree with
> the respondents-States. The States put together do not exhaust the territory
> of India. There are certain territories which do not form part of any State
> and yet are the territories of the Union. That the States and the Union
> Territories are different entities, is evident from clause (2) of Article 1
> -- indeed from the entire scheme of the Constitution. Article 245(1) says
> that while Parliament may make laws for the whole or any part of the
> territory of India, the legislature of a State may make laws for the whole
> or any part of the State. Article 1(2) read with Article 245(1) shows that
> so far as the Union Territories are concerned, the only law-making body is
> Parliament. The legislature of a State cannot make any law for a Union
> Territory; it can make laws only for that State.
Clauses (1), (2) and (3) of Article 246 speak of division of legislative
powers between Parliament and State legislatures. This division is only
between Parliament and the State legislatures, i.e., between the Union and the
States. There is no division of legislative powers between the Union and Union
Territories. Similarly, there is no division of powers between States and
Union Territories. So far as the Union Territories are concerned, it is clause
(4) of Article 246 that is relevant. It says that Parliament has the power to
make laws with respect to any matter for any part of the territory of India
not included in a State notwithstanding that such matter is a matter
W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 72 of 531 enumerated in the State List. Now, the
Union Territory is not included in the territory of any State. If so,
Parliament is the only law-making body available for such Union Territories.
It is equally relevant to mention that the Constitution, as originally
enacted, did not provide for a legislature for any of the Part ‗C' States (or,
for that matter, Part ‗D' States). It is only by virtue of the Government of
Part ‗C' States Act, 1951 that some Part ‗C' States including Delhi got a
legislature. This was put an end to by the States Reorganisation Act, 1956. In
1962, the Constitution Fourteenth (Amendment) Act did provide for
creation/constitution of legislatures for Union Territories (excluding, of
course, Delhi) but even here the Constitution did not itself provide for
legislatures for those Part ‗C' States; it merely empowered Parliament to
provide for the same by making a law. In the year 1991, the Constitution did
provide for a legislature for the Union Territory of Delhi [National Capital
Territory of Delhi] by the Sixty-Ninth (Amendment) Act (Article 239 AA) but
even here the legislature so created was not a full-fledged legislature nor
did it have the effect of -- assuming that it could -- lift the National
Capital Territory of Delhi from Union Territory category to the category of
States within the meaning of Chapter I of Part XI of the Constitution. All
this necessarily means that so far as the Union Territories are concerned,
there is no such thing as List I, List II or List III. The only legislative
body is Parliament -- or a legislative body created by it. Parliament can make
any law in respect of the said territories -- subject, of course, to
constitutional limitations other than those specified in Chapter I of Part XI
of the Constitution. Above all, the Union Territories are not ―States‖ as
contemplated by Chapter I of Part XI; they are W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 73 of
531 the territories of the Union falling outside the territories of the
States.
(Emphasis by us)
135\. On the position of Delhi, the Supreme Court in New Delhi Municipal
Council v. State of Punjab (supra) has further clearly stated thus:
> ―155...The third category is Delhi. It had no legislature with effect from
> 1-11-1956 until one has been created under and by virtue of the Constitution
> Sixty-Ninth (Amendment) Act, 1991 which introduced Article 239 AA. We have
> already dealt with the special features of Article 239 AA and need not
> repeat it. Indeed, a reference to Article 239 B read with clause (8) of
> Article 239 AA shows how the Union Territory of Delhi is in a class by
> itself but is certainly not a State within the meaning of Article 246 or
> Part VI of the Constitution. In sum, it is also a territory governed by
> clause (4) of Article 246. As pointed out by the learned Attorney General,
> various Union Territories are in different stages of evolution. Some have
> already acquired Statehood and some may be on the way to it. The fact,
> however, remains that those surviving as Union Territories are governed by
> Article 246(4) notwithstanding the differences in their respective set-ups
> -- and Delhi, now called the ―National Capital Territory of Delhi‖, is yet a
> Union Territory.‖ (Emphasis supplied)
136\. The Supreme Court has therefore, noticed that there are certain
territories which do not form part of the territory of the W.P.(C)No.4770/2012
page 74 of 531 States, yet are territories of the Union which are referred to
as Union Territories; that State and Union Territory are different entities
[Article 1(2)]. The Supreme Court observed that while the Parliament may make
laws for the whole or any part of the territory of India, the legislature of
State may make law for the whole or any part of the State. So far as Union
Territories are concerned, Article 1 (2) read with Article 4 would show that
the Parliament alone was the competent law making body. The Court also
observed that the division of legislative powers under Article 246 was only
between the Parliament and the State Legislatures and that there was no such
division of legislative powers between the Union and the Union Territories or
States and the Union Territories. Most importantly, it was declared that there
was no demarcation of subject matters by lists so far as the Union Territories
were concerned.
137\. The position of the Legislative Assembly of Delhi therefore stands
settled by the above enunciation of law. The Supreme Court has clearly
declared that it is a class by itself; that the Delhi Legislature was not a
full-fledged legislature and that Article 239 AA did not have the effect of
transferring the status of Delhi from Union Territory to that of a State
within the meaning of Chapter 1 of Part II of the Constitution of India. The
constitutional position is that Article 239AA does not derogate from the
powers of the Parliament to make laws with respect to any matter for a Union
Territory or any part thereof. The Parliament is the legislative body
W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 75 of 531 competent to make laws for the National
Capital Region of Delhi.
On the subject of court fees, there is pre-existing Central Legislation which
occupies the field. For this reason as well, the Delhi Legislative Assembly
has no competence to enact law or amend it
138\. The legislative competence of the Delhi legislative assembly to
legislate with regard to court fees has to be examined from yet another angle.
The petitioners have further submitted that admittedly, the Court Fees Act,
1870 is a central legislation. The Delhi Legislative Assembly is not vested
with the legislative competence to make any law which amounts to repealing or
amending an existing parliamentary law. Only the Parliament under Article
246(4) has the power to amend and alter such law but no corresponding power
has been given to the legislature of NCT of Delhi, a Union Territory, akin to
that conferred upon the State in the context of List III entries. Mr.
Chandhiok has argued with all the vehemence at his command that a subordinate
legislature cannot amend the law made by the Parliament, which is the supreme
legislative body under the Indian Constitution.
139\. There is further aspect to this issue. The Supreme Court also discussed
in Offshore Holdings Pvt. Ltd. V. Bangalore Development Authority and ORs.
(2011) 3 SCC 139 the issue of ‗occupied field', in the following terms:
―72. In the event the field is covered by the Central legislation, the State
legislature is not expected to W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 76 of 531 enact a law
contrary to or in conflict with the law framed by the Parliament on the same
subject. In that event, it is likely to be hit by the rule of repugnancy and
it would be a stillborn or invalid law on that ground. Exceptions are not
unknown to the rule of repugnancy/covered field. They are the constitutional
exceptions under Article 254(2) and the judge enunciated law where the Courts
declare that both the laws can co-exist and operate without conflict. The
repugnancy generally relates to the matters enumerated in List III of the
Constitution.‖ (Emphasis by us)
140\. Placing reliance on the above, it is argued by Mr. Chandhiok that given
the repugnancy between the Court Fees Act, 1870 and the Delhi Court Fees
(Amendment) Act, 2012, the Amendment Act of 2012 is deemed to be still born
and of no legal consequence and effect.
141\. On these aspects, another judicial precedent sheds further light. A
notification was issued by the Lieutenant Governor of Delhi on 28th June, 2000
specifying that it was issued in exercise of the powers conferred under sub-
section 1 of Section 19 of the Punjab Courts Act, 1918 as extended to the
National Capital Territory of Delhi, dividing it into nine civil districts. A
challenge was made before the Supreme Court with regard to the competence of
the Lieutenant Governor to issue such notification in exercise of powers
conferred under the Punjab Courts Act, 1918 which was decided by the judgment
reported at 2008 (13) SCC 628 : AIR 2009 SC 693 titled Delhi Bar Association
(Regd.) v. Union of W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 77 of 531 India. The Supreme
Court was called upon to consider the impact of the enactment of the
Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi Act, 1991 on the continued
applicability of the Punjab Courts Act, 1919 to Delhi. The Supreme Court held
that the enforcement of the Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi
Act, 1991 from 1st February, 1992 does not hinder the continued application of
the Punjab Courts Act, 1918 to Delhi and that the notification issued on 28th
June, 2000 itself referred to the Punjab Courts Act, 1918 as extended to the
National Capital Territory of Delhi. It was held that in the absence of any
provisions in the Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi Act and in
the absence of any other notification, order or legislation, the Punjab Courts
Act, 1918 had continuous application to Delhi along with the laws made by the
Delhi Legislative Assembly. Placing reliance on the principles laid down in
AIR 1958 SC 682, Mithan Lal v. State of Delhi, it was held that though the
Punjab Courts Act was only extended to Delhi, it has the status of a Central
legislation specifically enacted for Delhi. In this regard, it was held as
follows:-
> ―64. Further, the Delhi High Court Act, 1966 is an enactment by Parliament
> whereunder from 31.10.1966 the High Court has been established for the U.T.
> of Delhi which has been referred to as High Court of Delhi. The territorial
> jurisdiction of the High Court includes the territory of U.T. of Delhi. All
> original, appellate and other jurisdictions which had been exercised in
> regard to this territory by the High Court of Punjab shall be exercised by
> the High Court of Delhi. The Punjab Courts Act, 1918, though only
> W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 78 of 531 extended to Delhi, has the status of a
> central legislation directly enacted for Delhi. When a provincial Act or an
> Act which may be treated as a provincial Act was extended to the territory
> by a legislature, it would be deemed to be the enactment of such
> legislature. This principle has been clearly recognised by this Court in the
> case of Mithan Lal etc. v. State of Delhi [1959]1 SCR 445. It is, thus,
> clear that on the extension of the Punjab Courts Act, 1918, to the U.T. of
> Delhi, it becomes a Central Act or an Act of Parliament as it is made by
> virtue of powers of Parliament to legislate for the U.T. of Delhi by virtue
> of Clause (4) of Article 246 of the Constitution of India. Therefore, the
> Punjab Courts Act, 1918 assumes the position of central legislation enacted
> specifically for Delhi and is the law operative in the NCT of Delhi. Hence,
> the notification issued by the Lt. Governor under Section 19 of the Punjab
> Courts Act, 1918 has been authorized by a central legislation. Further, any
> legislation passed by the State Legislative Assembly is always subordinate
> to the laws of Parliament.‖ (Emphasis by us)
142\. In para 65 of Delhi Bar Association (supra), the provisions of Article
239AA(3)(b) and (c) were reproduced and the court observed that Article
239(3)(b) and (c) limited the power of the State legislature. It was
thereafter further concluded thus:
> ―66. Therefore, from the aforesaid constitutional provisions, it is clear
> that in the NCT of Delhi the laws made by the Delhi Legislative Assembly are
> always subordinate to the laws of Parliament whether prior or post in time.
> This has been reiterated by a Constitution Bench of nine Judges
> W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 79 of 531 of this Court in New Delhi Municipal
> Council v. State of Punjab and Ors. AIR 1997 SC 2847, wherein the Court held
> that Delhi Legislative Assembly is inferior to Parliament in hierarchy.‖
> 67\. The power to legislate of the Legislative Assembly of Delhi shall not
> supersede the powers of Parliament to make laws with respect to any matter
> for Union Territory or any part thereof. If any provision made by the
> Legislative Assembly with respect to any matter is repugnant to any
> provision of a law made by Parliament with respect to that matter, whether
> passed before or after the law made by the Legislative Assembly, or of an
> earlier law, other than a law made by the Legislative Assembly, then, in
> either case the law made by Parliament or such earlier law shall prevail and
> the law made by the Legislative Assembly shall, to the extent of repugnancy,
> be void. The Punjab Courts Act, 1918, being the Central legislation, will
> have the primacy over any legislation made by the Delhi Legislative Assembly
> on the subject and even if the Delhi Legislative Assembly has a power to
> make law on the subject which is covered under the impugned notification,
> Section 19 of the Punjab Courts Act, 1918 shall prevail on the subject and a
> notification issued thereunder shall not be invalidated merely because the
> subject-matter also falls within the Concurrent List.‖ (Emphasis by us)
143\. The Supreme Court has thus held that even if the Delhi Legislative
Assembly has the power to make laws on the subject, any legislation passed by
the Delhi Legislative Assembly is always subordinate to the laws of the
Parliament, whether passed prior to or after the enactment of the Central
legislation and that Article W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 80 of 531 239AA(3)(b)
and (c) limited the power of the Delhi Legislative Assembly. The Supreme Court
has reiterated the position that the Delhi Legislative Assembly does not have
the same status as that of a full State Legislative Assembly and in fact is
inferior to the Parliament in hierarchy.
The above discussion clearly shows that the position of the Court Fees Act
with regard to Delhi thus would be the same as that of Punjab Courts Act.
144\. Mr. Chandhiok, learned Senior Counsel for the petitioners has urged at
some length that once a central legislation has occupied a field, the Delhi
Legislative Assembly has no legislative competence to legislate on the same
subject. The submission is that the Delhi Legislative Assembly cannot enact
any law or make any enactment in view of the doctrine of ―occupied field‖. In
support of this submission reliance is placed on para 4 of the Full Bench
pronouncement reported at AIR 2003 Delhi 317, Geetika Panwar & Ors. v.
Government of NCT, Delhi. This case related to the enhancement of the
pecuniary jurisdiction of this court. Article 241 of the Constitution provides
that the Parliament has the authority to constitute or to declare any court as
a High Court for a Union Territory. In 1966, the Delhi High Court Act, 1966
(Act XXVI of 1966) was enacted by the Parliament with effect from 5 th
September, 1966 to provide for the constitution of a High Court for the Union
Territory of Delhi. In terms of the statutory mandate in Section 17, the
Central Government by a notification in the Official W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page
81 of 531 Gazette appointed 1st of May 1967 as the date from which the
jurisdiction of the High Court of Delhi shall extend to the Union Territory of
Himachal Pradesh as well and from which date, the court of Judicial
Commissioner for Himachal Pradesh shall cease to function and shall stand
abolished.
145\. Under Section 5(2) of the Delhi High Court Act, 1966, the legislature
had conferred ordinary original civil jurisdiction in every suit, the value of
which exceeded Rs.5,00,000/- upon the High Court of Delhi.
On the 20th December, 2001, the Legislative Assembly of the NCT of Delhi
passed the Delhi High Court (Amendment) Act 2001, (Delhi Act No.5 of 2002) to
amend the Delhi High Court Act, 1966 (Act No.26 of 1966) and the Punjab Court
Act of 1918. This Amendment Act, 2001 received the assent of the President of
India on 21st February, 2002 and was published in Part II of the Delhi Gazette
Extraordinary on 13th March, 2002.
146\. It is noteworthy that by the Delhi High Court (Amendment) Act, 2001
enacted by the Delhi Legislature, an increase was effected in the pecuniary
limit of the original civil jurisdiction of the Delhi High Court from
Rs.5,00,000/- to Rs.20,00,000/-.
147\. The Amendment Act of 2001 was challenged by way of a writ petition under
Article 226 of the Constitution titled Geetika Panwar v. Union of India & Ors.
The challenge before the Full Bench has been reported at AIR 2003 Del 317 and
was made inter W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 82 of 531 alia on the following
grounds:-
(i) The Amendment Act was ultra vires and without jurisdiction in as much as
the Legislative Assembly of National Capital Territory of Delhi has no
legislative competence under the Constitutional scheme to enact such law.
(ii) The impugned amendment sought to amend an enactment made by Act of the
Parliament, the subject matter of which does not fall in any of the items
either under List-II or List-III of the 7th Schedule of the Constitution of
India.
(iii) The Delhi Assembly does not have the legislative competence to make any
fresh law or amend any existing law in relation to the jurisdiction and power
of the Delhi High Court. However, even by virtue of the special power
conferred under Article 239AA, the Delhi Legislative Assembly was not
competent to pass the impugned legislation effecting the pecuniary
jurisdiction of the court.
(iv) Legislative competence was also challenged on the ground that Article 239
AA (3) (a) of the Constitution confers jurisdiction on the Legislative
Assembly of National Capital Territory of Delhi to make laws, which are
subject matter of various Entries in List-II and List-III, except matters with
respect to Entries 1, 2 and 18 of the State List and Entries 64, 65 and 66 of
that List in so far as they relate to the said Entries 1, 2 and 18.
(v) The term "Administration of Justice" used in Entry 11-A of List-III does
not empower the State Legislatures to make any law as regards
W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 83 of 531 general jurisdiction and power of the High
Courts, since it is specifically excluded there from.
(vi) It was further argued that phrase ‗administration of justice' is included
in the phrase ‗constitution and organization' and, therefore Article 241 read
with Entry 78 of List I postulated that the Parliament alone has the power to
deal with the matters relating to jurisdiction and power of the High Court.
(Underlining by us)
148\. The respondents had pressed a plea of legislative competency identical
to that raised before us. The stand of the respondents has been noticed in
paras 15 to 16 of the judgment which read as follows:-
> ―15. We have duly considered the submissions made by learned counsel for the
> parties. In Part VIII of the Constitution, there is a special provision made
> with respect to Delhi by Article 239AA, which was inserted by the
> Constitution (69th Amendment) Act, 1991, which came into force with effect
> from 1.2.1992. From the date of commencement of Constitution (69th
> Amendment) Act, 1991 Union Territory of Delhi is called National Capital
> Territory of Delhi and the Administrator appointed under Article 239 is
> designated as Lt. Governor. Clause (3) of the said Article says that there
> shall be a Legislative Assembly for National Capital Territory of Delhi. The
> power to legislate, conferred on this Legislative Assembly is not at par
> with that of the State Legislatures but is limited one as stipulated in
> Clause (3) of Article 239AA, which reads:-
    W.P.(C)No.4770/2012                                     page 84 of 531
            xxx                          xxx                    xxx
> 16\. Bare reading of the aforementioned clause suggest that the Legislative
> Assembly of National Capital Territory of Delhi has power to make laws for
> National Capital Territory of Delhi with respect to the matters in List II
> or in the Concurrent List, except which are in Entries 1, 2 and 18 of List-
> II and Entries 64, 65 and 66, in so far as they relate to Entries 1, 2 and
> 18 of the said list. As such it is competent for the Legislative Assembly of
> NCT of Delhi make any law in respect to all matters in entry 11-A of List II
> as well. True scope of Entry 11-A in List-III will be examined in subsequent
> part of this judgment.‖ (Underlining by us)
149\. In Geetika Panwar (supra), before the Full Bench of this court, the NCT
of Delhi had urged that legislative competence to make the legislation was
derived by the Legislative Assembly of the NCT of Delhi from Article 239
AA(3)(c) of the Constitution and the court was also called upon to interpret
Entry 11A of List II of the Seventh Schedule. It was also urged that the
legislation proposed by the Delhi Legislature had received the assent of the
President and would prevail for this reason as well. These very submissions
have made before us by the respondents in the present case. The Full Bench of
this Court considered and rejected these submissions, holding as follows:-
> ―39. Under the Constitution, there is three-fold distribution of Legislative
> Powers provided by Article 246 between the Union and the States. List-I is
> the Union List. It includes those subjects over W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 85
> of 531 which the Parliament alone has exclusive power to legislate. On items
> included in List-II, the State Legislatures alone have jurisdiction to
> legislate. Concurrent power is conferred on the Parliament and the State
> Legislatures over items included in List-III. The residuary power belongs to
> the Parliament. Article 254 deals with inconsistency between the laws made
> by the Parliament and the laws made by the State Legislature and Clause (3)
> thereof says that Union Law shall prevail where State Laws is repugnant to
> it.
40\. We, in this case, are concerned with special provision, which has been
made with respect to Delhi under Article 239AA and reliance was placed on
behalf of the respondents to the first proviso to Sub-clause (c) of Clause (3)
that if any provision of law made by the Legislative Assembly with respect to
any matter is repugnant to any provision of a law made by Parliament with
respect to that matter, whether passed before or after the law made by the
Legislative Assembly and if such law made by the Legislative Assembly has been
reserved for the consideration of the President and has received his assent,
such law made by the Legislative Assembly shall prevail in National Capital
Territory. It was urged that since amendments had earlier been carried out to
Sub-section (3) of Section 5 of the Delhi High Court Act, 1966 by the
Parliament, the impugned legislation made by the Legislative Assembly of
National Capital Territory of Delhi, which had been reserved for the
consideration of the President and had also received his assent is to prevail
by virtue of first proviso to Sub-clause (c) of Clause (3) of Article 239AA.
Learned Attorney General submitted that the Presidential assent cannot cure
the basic defect of lack of legislative competence. If the Delhi Legislative
Assembly had no legislative W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 86 of 531 competence to
pass the impugned legislation, Presidential assent is of no avail. The
question of repugnancy can arise only when Parliament and the State
Legislature have passed legislation, in respect of one or more entries in the
Concurrent List. The Delhi High Court Act, 1966 was passed by the Parliament,
in exercise of its legislative power under Entry 78 of List I of the Seventh
Schedule of the Constitution. The said Act was not passed in respect of any
entry in the Concurrent List. In fact, Entry 11-A of List III was not in
existence when the Parliamentary legislation was passed, therefore, the
question of repugnancy does not arise. Field of legislation with regard to
constitution and organisation of High Courts was an occupied field by the
Parliamentary legislation, namely, the Delhi High Court Act, 1966, therefore;
also the Delhi Legislative Assembly had no competence to enact the impugned
legislation.‖ (Emphasis supplied) Thus, it was held by the court that in view
of the Delhi High Court Act having been enacted by the Parliament, the subject
―constitution and organization‖ of the High Court was an occupied field and,
therefore, the Delhi Legislative Assembly was not competent to enact the
legislation. The Full Bench held that consequently the Delhi Legislative
Assembly had no competence to enact the impugned legislation.
150\. Interestingly, the court has read the concept of occupied field usually
referred to in the context of the Concurrent List entries with regard to which
the Union and the States have concurrent power to W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 87
of 531 legislate, into the consideration of the legislative competency of the
Legislature of Delhi, a Union Territory. More important is the enunciation of
the binding principle of law that Presidential assent would not cure the basic
defect of legislative competence.
151\. We are informed that the decision of the Full Bench of this court was
not assailed by the respondents any further and has attained finality.
152\. The respondents have submitted that the decision of the High Court of
Delhi in the case of Geetika Panwar v. Government of NCT of Delhi does not
apply to the present case as this was a case related to List I Entry 78,
whereas the present case falls only under List II Entry 3, with no
corresponding entry, similar or otherwise, under either List I or List III.
They also stated that the petitioner's reliance on Geetika Panwar (supra) is
premised on an erroneous understanding of the principle of ‗occupied field'.
The respondents state that the doctrine of ‗occupied field' has arisen in the
jurisprudence of the Supreme Court in the context of specific entries in List
II of Schedule VII of the Constitution, that are expressly made ‗subject' to a
corresponding entry in List I or List III. In the present case, the Delhi
Legislative Assembly is competent under Article 239AA read with Entry 3 of
List II to enact legislation prescribing the rate of court fees. This entry is
not subject to any Entry in List I.
153\. The respondent also stated that merely because the decision
W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 88 of 531 in Geetika Panwar (supra) was not
challenged did not mean that its ratio could be said to have attained
finality. There is no question of there being any res judicata vis-a-vis a
plenary legislation. The judgment can at most be considered as a precedent and
its precedential value is significantly eroded by a later judgment of the
Supreme Court: (2005) 2 SCC 591, Jamshed N. Guzdar v. State of Maharashtra &
Ors. where it was stated in para 58 that the interpretation of the
Constitution is the sole prerogative of the constitutional courts and the
stand taken by the executive in a particular case cannot determine the true
interpretation of the Constitution.
154\. These submissions fail to note the binding principle noticed heretofore
that so far as Union Territories including Delhi are concerned, the
subjectwise separation by the Lists in Schedule 7 of the Constitution is
inconsequential. The reference to the Lists in Article 239AA appears to be for
the purpose of clarifying the limitation on the powers of the Delhi
Legislative Assembly. It neither transforms the status of Delhi into a full-
fledged state nor confers special authority to legislate. It certainly does
not confer a status above the Parliament on the Delhi Legislative Assembly.
155\. While there can be no dispute with the principle laid down in Jamshed N.
Guzdar (supra), we have applied this very principle when we conclude that it
is the interpretation and principles laid down by the Supreme Court and the
Full Bench of this Court, i.e. Constitutional courts in constitutional
challenges, which bind the W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 89 of 531 present
consideration. More important is the fact that we have drawn strength on
pronouncements interpreting Article 239AA whereas the respondents are unable
to place any precedent wherein examination of Article 239AA of the
Constitution has been undertaken.
156\. We may also briefly examine the manner in which the respondents have
proceeded in the matter post Geetika Panwar (supra). Our attention has also
been drawn to the amendment effected thereafter to the pecuniary jurisdiction
of this court. It was the Parliament which legislated on the matter thereafter
and enacted the Delhi High Court Amendment Act (Act 35 of 2003) effective from
16th July, 2003 increasing the original civil pecuniary jurisdiction of this
court to suits the value of which exceeds Rs.20,00,000/-. The pecuniary
jurisdiction of the original side of the Delhi High Court by the Delhi High
Court Act, 1966 has been increased by the following amendments:
                 Year              Pecuniary jurisdiction
                 1966              Over Rs.25,000/-
                 1969              Over Rs.50,000/-
                 1980              Over Rs.1,00,000/-
                 1999              Over Rs.5,00,000/-
                 16th July, 2003   Over Rs.20,00,000/-
157\. It is noteworthy that even after coming into force of the Government of
NCT of Delhi Act, 1991, the amendments to the Delhi High Court Act enhancing
the pecuniary jurisdiction of the Delhi High Court were effected only by the
Parliament. The W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 90 of 531 respondents have therefore
accepted the above legal position on the limitations in the legislative
competence of the Delhi Legislative Assembly as laid down in the above
judgments, especially with regard to the jurisdiction to effect amendments to
Central legislation. The respondents have thus admitted and accepted the
legislative supremacy of the Parliament and parliamentary legislations.
158\. In a judgment rendered by one of us (Gita Mittal, J.) reported at 165
(2009) DLT 418, Delhi Towers Ltd. v. G.N.C.T of Delhi, an issue arose as to
whether an approved scheme of amalgamation under Sections 391 to 394 of the
Company's Act, 1956 would be exigible to stamp duty. The petitioner had placed
reliance on two notifications: the first notification bearing no.1 dated 16 th
January, 1937 and the second notification bearing no.13 dated 25 th December,
1937; the Indian Independence Act, 1947 and the provisions of the Constitution
of India. It was urged that these notifications were applicable even on date
and the applicant would by virtue thereof be entitled to the benefit
thereunder and remission of stamp duty on the transfer of property which takes
place by virtue of approval by the Company Court of the scheme of
amalgamation.
159\. On behalf of Government of NCT of Delhi, learned counsel had inter alia
argued that the two notifications had not been accepted by the Legislative
Assembly of the Government of NCT of Delhi and consequently would stand
repealed. Similar W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 91 of 531 submissions, as have been
placed before this court, with regard to the unique position of Delhi in the
constitutional scheme as well as the legislative power of the Delhi
Legislative Assembly were pressed by the parties. Given the contentions of the
parties in the present case, the following observations made in this
pronouncement may be usefully adverted to:-
> ―12.5 Delhi occupies a unique position and was one among the Union
> Territories listed in the Constitution. Part VIII of the Constitution is
> concerned with the provisions regarding Union Territories. Special
> provisions for some of the Union Territories have been made in Article 239.
> By virtue of the amendment of 1991, Article 239AA was incorporated to make
> special provisions with regard to Delhi which was renamed as the National
> Capital Territory as a result thereof.
> xxx xxx xxx 12.7 Article 239AA specifically states that it is subject to
> other constitutional provisions. So far as the conferment of legislative
> power is concerned, the same is to be found in Article 239AA(3). While sub-
> clause 3(a) is concerned with the conferment of power on the Legislative
> Assembly, sub clause (b) specifically states that the powers of the
> Legislative Assembly shall not derogate from the powers of the Parliament to
> make laws with respect to any matter for a Union Territory or part thereof.
12.8 The constitutionally recognised superiority of the legislative competence
of the Parliament is also set out in Sub-clause (c) of Article 239AA(3) which
provides that, if any provision of law made by the legislative assembly with
respect to any matter is W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 92 of 531 repugnant to any
provision of a law made by the Parliament with respect to that matter, whether
passed before or after the law made by the legislative assembly, or of an
earlier law, then the law made by the Parliament or such earlier law shall
prevail and the law made by the Legislative Assembly shall, to the extent of
the repugnancy, be void. The second proviso to Sub-clause (3) of Article 239AA
also provides that nothing in the sub-clause shall prevent the Parliament from
enacting at any time any law with respect to the same matter including a law
adding to, amending, varying or repealing the law so made by the legislative
assembly.
12.9 It is also necessary to examine Article 246 of the Constitution so far as
the legislative competence of the Parliament is concerned which reads as
follows:
xxx xxx xxx Sub-clause 4 of Article 246 of the Constitution of India,
therefore empowers the Parliament to make laws with respect to any matter for
any part of the territory of India not included in a state, notwithstanding
that such matter is enumerated in the State list. Legislation in respect of
the Union Territory would be such matter. These constitutional provisions thus
set out in clear terms the legislative competence of the Parliament to
legislate with respect to Delhi.
12.10 In exercise of powers under Article 239AA of the Constitution, the
Parliament passed the Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi Act,
1991 which also took effect from the 1st of February, 1992. This by itself
would show that the Delhi Legislature is subordinate to the Parliament.
12.11 The Government of National Capital Territory W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 93
of 531 of Delhi Act, 1991 was enacted to supplement the provisions of the
Constitution relating to the Legislative Assembly and Council of Ministers for
the National Capital Territory of Delhi and for matters connected therewith or
incidental thereto. ...
xxx xxx xxx 12.12 An issue as to the supremacy of the Legislative Assembly of
Delhi over the Parliament and the impact of the afore noticed constitutional
provisions fell for consideration before the Constitution Bench of nine Judges
of the Supreme Court. In its judgment reported at : (1997) 7 SCC 339 New Delhi
Municipal Council v. State of Punjab and Ors., the court held that the
Parliament would be in a position of superiority in hierarchy qua the Delhi
Legislative Assembly. In this regard, in para 10 of its judgment, the
Constitution Bench had construed the implication of provisions of Section
239AA vis-a-vis the Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi Act in
some detail ...‖ (Emphasis by us)
160\. In para 12.13, the decision of the Supreme Court in AIR 2009 SC 693,
Delhi Bar Association v. UOI and Ors., was relied upon. It was finally held in
Delhi Towers Ltd. (supra) as follows:-
> ―12.14 From the above, it is apparent that the power of the Parliament to
> legislate under Article 245 of the Constitution in respect of Union
> Territories is not denuded or derogated by the provisions of Article 239AA
> or any other provisions of the Constitution, and the Parliament has the
> legislative competency to legislate with regard to any subject so far as the
> National Capital Territory of Delhi is concerned. I therefore find force in
> the submission W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 94 of 531 that by virtue of the
> powers conferred in Article 239AA (3)(b) and 246(4), the Parliament has the
> legislative competence to enact laws applicable to Delhi.‖ (Underlining
> supplied)
161\. Given the authoritative and binding enunciation of law by the Supreme
Court in New Delhi Municipal Council and Delhi Bar Association (supra) as well
as the Full Bench adjudication in Geetika Panwar (supra), it may be said that
it is unnecessary to advert to a Single Bench judgment of this court. We have
noticed this judgment in some detail because the Government of NCT of Delhi
made the same arguments in opposition as have been placed by it in the present
case. These submissions of the Government of NCT of Delhi were rejected. The
judgment in Delhi Towers Ltd (supra) was also not challenged by the Government
of NCT of Delhi and has attained finality. Yet the same issues have been
repeated before us.
162\. In yet another pronouncement reported at ILR (2009) IV Delhi 280, M/s
Narinder Batra v. Union of India by one of us (Gita Mittal, J.), the question
with regard to distribution of legislative powers between Union and the States
based on the lists in the 7th Schedule had arisen for consideration. Even
though the instant case is not concerned with the distribution of legislative
powers between the Union and States but between the Union and a Union
Territory i.e. the National Capital Territory of Delhi, the observations made
in this pronouncement on the separation of W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 95 of 531
powers and interpretation of the items in the Schedule to the Constitution are
useful. Reliance was placed on the earlier pronouncement of the Supreme Court
in (2002) 4 SCC 275, Union of India v. Delhi High Court Bar Association & Ors.
In this case, the court was concerned with a challenge to the power of the
Parliament to enact a law constituting a tribunal like the Banking Tribunal.
On the aspect of construction of constitutional provisions, the court placed
reliance on the following observations in AIR 1955 SC 58, Navinchandra
Mafatlal v. CIT:
> ―... The cardinal rule of interpretation, however, is that words should be
> read in their ordinary, natural and grammatical meaning subject to this
> rider that in construing words in a constitutional enactment conferring
> legislative power the most liberal construction should be put upon the words
> so that the same may have effect in their widest amplitude.‖
163\. So far as the supremacy of the Parliament to enact legislation is
concerned, in Narinder Batra (supra), it was observed thus:-
> ―65. The supremacy of the parliament has been provided for by the non-
> obstante clause under Article 246(1) and the words 'subject to' in Article
> 246 (2) and (3). Under Article 246(1), if any of the entries in the three
> lists overlap, the entry in list I will prevail. (Ref: AIR2007SC1584 Greater
> Bombay Co-op. Bank Ltd. v. United Yarn Tex. Pvt. Ltd. and Ors.; 2007 AIR SCW
> 2325 Greater Bombay Coop. Bank Ltd. v. United Yarn Tex. Pvt. Ltd.)"
> (Emphasis supplied) W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 96 of 531
164\. Mr. Chandhiok, learned Senior Counsel has placed before this court the
pronouncement of a Division Bench reported at 192 (2012) DLT 241 (DB), Vinod
Krishna Kaul v. Lt. Governor NCT of Delhi & Ors. wherein the court had taken a
view that the Delhi Legislative Assembly had the competence to legislate on
the subject matter which was in issue before the court. In this case, the
court was examining a challenge to the unit area method of levying property
taxes in Delhi as were introduced by virtue of the Delhi Municipal Corporation
(Amendment) Act, 2003 as well as the Delhi Municipal Corporation (Property
Tax) Bye-Laws, 2004 and a prayer was made that both be declared as
unconstitutional and void ab initio. The petitioner's challenge rested, inter
alia, on the plea that the Legislative Assembly for the NCT of Delhi lacks the
legislative competence to enact the Amendment Act, 2003. It was further
contended that the Presidential assent in the manner stipulated in Article
239AA(3)(c) was not there.
165\. Our attention has been drawn to para 2 of this pronouncement wherein the
court has noticed the petitioner's challenge to the legislative competence
placing reliance on the pronouncement of the Supreme Court reported at 1997
(7) SCC 339, NDMC v. State of Punjab. The observations of the court in Vinod
Kaul (supra) are as follows:-
> ―4. Let us examine the contention in respect of the "Union Taxation"
> argument. We note that Article 289(1) of the Constitution of India declares
> that the "property and income of a State shall be W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page
> 97 of 531 exempt from Union taxation". In NDMC v. State of Punjab (supra),
> the question which arose for consideration was whether the properties of the
> States situated in the Union Territory of Delhi were exempt from property
> taxes levied under the municipal enactments in force in the Union Territory
> of Delhi. It is in this backdrop that the question of whether the property
> taxes under the two Municipal Acts extant in Delhi constituted Union
> taxation or not - arose for consideration. While doing so, the Supreme Court
> observed that the States put together do not exhaust the territory of India
> and that there are certain territories which do not form part of any State
> and yet are territories of the Union. The Supreme Court noted that the
> States and Union Territories are different entities as was evident from
> clause (2) of Article 1 and, indeed, from the entire scheme of the
> Constitution. It was further observed by the Supreme Court that Article 245
> (1) prescribed that while Parliament may make laws for the whole or any part
> of the territory of India, the legislature of a State may make laws for the
> whole or any part of the State.
Article 1 (2) read with Article 245 (1) would show that so far as the Union
Territories are concerned, the only lawmaking body is Parliament. It was also
observed that the legislature of a State cannot make any law for a Union
Territory inasmuch as a State legislature can make laws only for that State.
The division of legislative powers between Parliament and the State
legislatures is clearly indicated in Article 246 of the Constitution. The
Supreme Court, importantly, noted that the division is only between Parliament
and the State legislatures, that is, between the Union and the States and that
there is no division of legislative powers between the Union and the Union
Territories as much as there is no division of powers between States and the
Union Territory. The Supreme Court held that W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 98 of
531 insofar as the Union Territories are concerned, it is clause (4) of
Article 246 that is relevant and that says that Parliament has the power to
make laws with respect to any matter or for any part of the territory of India
not included in a State notwithstanding that such matter is enumerated in the
State list. The Supreme Court categorically held that as the Union Territory
is not included in the territory of any State, it was Parliament alone that
was the lawmaking body available for such Union Territories.
5\. The Supreme Court also noted that in the year 1991, the Constitution
provided for the establishment of a legislature for the Union Territory of
Delhi (National capital Territory of Delhi) by the Constitution (Sixty-ninth)
Amendment Act, 1991 but, the legislature so created was not a full-fledged
legislature nor did it have the effect of transforming the status of Delhi
from a Union Territory to that of a State within the meaning of chapter I of
part XI of the Constitution.
           xxx                           xxx
           xxx
7\. With regard to Delhi, the Supreme Court in NDMC v. State of Punjab (supra)
observed as under:-
> ―... In sum, it is also a territory governed by clause (4) of Article 246.
> As pointed out by the learned attorney general, various Union Territories
> are in different stages of evolution.
Some have already acquired statehood and some may be on the way to it. The
fact, however, remains that those surviving as Union Territories are governed
by Article 246(4) notwithstanding the W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 99 of 531
differences in their respective set-ups - and Delhi, now called the "National
Capital Territory of Delhi", is yet a Union Territory.‖ (Emphasis by us)
166\. These observations were reiterated in para 10 of the pronouncement
[Vinod Kaul (supra)] in the following terms:
> ―10. What has to be examined is what is the source of power behind the
> Amendment Act of 2003? Did the Legislative Assembly of NCT of Delhi have the
> power to legislate on the field of property taxation or not? This can only
> be seen from constitutional provisions. There is no dispute that the NCT of
> Delhi is not a State; it continues to be a Union Territory. Thus, Parliament
> has the full array of powers to legislate in respect of NCT of Delhi. As
> pointed out by the Supreme Court in NDMC v. State of Punjab (supra), insofar
> as NCT of Delhi is concerned, it being a Union Territory, "there is no such
> thing as List I, List II or List III". And, the only legislative body is
> Parliament --or a legislative body created by it, that is, the Legislative
> Assembly for the NCT of Delhi. By virtue of Article 239AA (Special
> provisions with respect to Delhi), the Union Territory of Delhi has been
> named as the National Capital Territory of Delhi. ...‖ (Emphasis by us)
167\. Mr. Chandhiok has further submitted that in the light of the above
principles laid down by the Supreme Court, in para 16 of 192 (2012) DLT 241
(DB), Vinod Krishna Kaul v. Lt. Governor, NCT of Delhi, the court noticed the
reliance of the petitioner on the W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 100 of 531
pronouncement of the Supreme Court in Kaiser-i-Hind. In para 20, the court
refers to the proviso to Article 239 AA (3)(c) as well as the repugnancy
between a law made by the Delhi Legislature and Parliamentary law. It is
contended that in this background, the finding by the court in para 26 that
the mere statement in the proposal for Presidential assent that it was an
‗amendment' is incorrect in law.
168\. We find that Clauses 3(a) & (b) of Article 239AA have also been
reproduced in the judgment. After these observations, the court directed
itself only to the question as to whether the Legislative Assembly of Delhi
had the power to legislate on property taxes. On this issue, in para 15, it
was held that the power to legislate with regard to property taxes is
traceable to Entry 49 of the State List, which, has not been excluded from the
domain of the Legislative Assembly of NCT of Delhi by Article 239AA(3)(a) of
the Constitution and it was therefore, held that the said Legislative Assembly
had the power and competence to legislate with regard to "taxes on lands and
buildings".
169\. Mr. Chandhiok, learned Senior Counsel submits that the binding
conclusions of the Supreme Court noted in the earlier paras 7 and 10 of the
pronouncement have escaped attention in the concluding paragraphs of the
judgment in Vinod Krishna Kaul (supra). It is pointed out by Mr. Chandhiok,
learned Senior Counsel that the principles laid down by the Supreme Court in
2008 (13) SCC 628, Delhi Bar Association v. Union of India and
W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 101 of 531 Others and the Full Bench decision of this
court in AIR 2003 Del 317, Geetika Panwar v. Govt. of NCT of Delhi appear not
to have been placed before the Division Bench in Vinod Krishna Kaul (supra).
170\. The contention of learned Senior Counsel is that in view of the settled
principles of law on this issue having not been placed or considered in Vinod
Krishna Kaul (supra), the said judgment cannot bind the present consideration.
It is contended that it is the law laid down and the findings in the
authoritative pronouncements on the issue by the Supreme Court and the Full
Bench which has to guide the consideration before us.
171\. In support of this submission, reliance is placed on the pronouncement
of the Jharkhand High Court reported at 2012 Law Suit (Jhar) 482, Kiran Manjhi
v. State of Jharkhand & Ors., State of Jharkhand & Ors. v. Sur Singh Hasda. In
this case, the court had observed thus:-
> ―9. The learned single Judge, in subsequent order dated 14.11.2011
> dismissing the writ petitions, held that the earlier judgments proceeded on
> mistake of facts. Obviously, if the judgment is rendered ignoring material
> facts which are relevant and if those facts would have been brought to the
> knowledge of the same Court, the Court may not have taken the same view
> which has been taken then judgment is no judgment and can be declared per
> incuriam. When very foundational fact of judgment itself is a cause for a
> decision and that fact is found to be wrong, then that judgment can be
> declared per incuriam even by the W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 102 of 531
> Coordinate Bench. If the judgment runs just contrary to the statutory
> provisions of law, then also that judgment can be declared per incuriam even
> by the Coordinate Bench but before holding so the fact and law must be clear
> and should be apparent so as to reach to that conclusion of mistake of fact
> or mistake of law by not doing roving or deep enquiry and this mistake must
> be apparent from the face of the order as well as by mere reading of the
> law. Therefore, we have to examine the issue in the light of the reasons
> given in the two different sets of impugned judgment/orders.‖
172\. On the questions which have been urged before us, it needs no
elaboration that we are bound by the enunciation of law by the Supreme Court
and the Full Bench pronouncement of this Court.
173\. It has been categorically declared that the Delhi Legislature remains
subordinate to the Parliament; that it has not been conferred the power to
repeal or amend or in any manner impact any Central legislation.
174\. Article 246 which provides for separation of legislative powers between
States legislatures and the Centre, does not provide for separation of powers
between a Union Territory and a State.
175\. We have discussed above that Delhi is not a State within the meaning of
the expression ‗Article 1(3)'. It remains a Union Territory. The separation of
powers by the Lists is not applicable to the Union Territories under the
Constitutional scheme.
W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 103 of 531
176\. Before us the respondents source their power to legislate to clause 3(a)
of Article 239AA. It is submitted that the Delhi Legislative Assembly is
empowered to make laws with respect to any of the matters in the State List
and the Concurrent List subject to the exceptions detailed therein. In making
this submission, the respondents overlook the opening words of clause 3(a) of
Article 239AA. Article 239 AA of the Constitution, under which the respondent
claims to have exercised its legislative power, begins with the words ―subject
to provisions of the Constitution‖. From the commencement of Article
239AA(3)(a), the Legislative Assembly of the National Capital Territory of
Delhi has power to make laws for the whole or any part of the National Capital
Territory with respect to any of the matters enumerated in the State List or
in the Concurrent List. This legislative power under Article 239AA(3)(a) is
subject to provisions of the Constitution, meaning thereby that the
Legislative Assembly of the National Capital Territory of Delhi cannot alter
or amend the Parliamentary statute notwithstanding that it has power qua
entries in List II. Article 239AA(3)(a) itself provides as under:-
> ―Nothing in sub-clause (a) shall derogate from the powers of Parliament
> under this Construction to make laws with respect to any matter for a Union
> Territory or any part thereof‖.
177\. Clause 3(b) of Article 239 AA reiterates that the powers of the Delhi
Legislative Assembly under Article 239 AA (3)(a) do not W.P.(C)No.4770/2012
page 104 of 531 derogate from the power of the Parliament to make laws with
respect to any matter for a Union Territory or any part thereof. Thus only
limited power is given to the Delhi Legislative Assembly under Article 239AA
to legislate. Clause 3(c) declares the supremacy of a Parliamentary law over
any law made by the Delhi legislative assembly, whether passed before or after
the law made by the legislative assembly. It goes to the extent of declaring
that to the extent of its repugnancy with the Parliamentary law, the law
enacted by the Delhi legislative assembly would be void. Sub clauses (b) and
(c) thus reinforce the supremacy of the Parliamentary law even further.
178\. We find an important difference between the expressions used in Articles
239 and 254 which further highlights the Parliamentary legislative supremacy
over the powers of the Delhi legislative assembly. In Article 254(1) of the
Constitution, the words ―which the Parliament is competent to enact‖ have been
incorporated. These are not to be found in Article 239AA. Therefore so far as
Delhi is concerned, the Parliament is supreme so far as legislation is
concerned. It is also evident from the above discussion that so far as NCT of
Delhi is concerned, despite Article 239AA, extremely limited jurisdiction is
conferred on the Legislative Assembly under Article 239 AA and that the law
made by the Parliament is supreme.
Whether Lists in the Seventh Schedule are a substantive source of power for
the Parliament and the State Legislatures?
W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 105 of 531
179\. We may now examine the impact of the subject wise demarcation in the
Lists in Schedule VII and the effect thereof.
180\. Before this court the respondents have sourced their jurisdiction to
legislate on the subject of court fees, not only to Article 239AA of the
Constitution but have heavily relied on Article 246(3) and Entry 3 in List II
of the Seventh Schedule.
181\. So far as entries in the lists are concerned, they do not confer the
power of legislation but set out the field of legislation [Ref : (2002) 8 SCC
481, TMA Pai Foundation v. State of Karnataka]
182\. Mr. Chandhiok has drawn our attention to the judicial precedent reported
at (2011) 3 SCC 139, Offshore Holdings Pvt. Ltd. V. Bangalore Development
Authority & Ors. construing whether entries in the Lists under the Seventh
Schedule were a substantive source of power for a legislature.
183\. In the case of Girnar Traders (1) v. State of Maharashtra (2004) 8 SCC
505, the court was considering the question of whether all provisions of the
Land Acquisition Act, 1894 (another Central enactment) can be read into the
provisions under Chapter VII of the Maharashtra Regional and Town Planning
Act, 1966 and the correctness of the view of the Supreme Court in (1995) Supp
(2) SCC 475, State of Maharashtra v. Sant Joginder Singh. The court observed
that the Land Acquisition Act is relatable to Entry 42 of List III while the
State enactment i.e. BDA Act was relatable to Entries 5 and 18 of List II of
7th Schedule. With regard to the W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 106 of 531 effect of
the entries in the lists and their construction, in para 67, the Supreme Court
observed that ―The entries in the legislative lists are not the source of
powers for the legislative constituents but they merely demarcate the fields
of legislation.‖ The court also reiterated the well settled position that
―these entries are to be construed liberally and widely so as to attain the
purpose for which they have been enacted. Narrow interpretation of the entries
is likely to defeat their object as it is not always possible to write these
entries with such precision that they cover all possible topics and without
any overlapping.‖
184\. After a detailed consideration of the principles laid down in several
judicial pronouncements, so far as the conflict between a law made by the
Parliament and another legislation made by the State Legislation is concerned,
the Supreme Court laid down binding principles in paras 71 and 72 of (2011) 3
SCC 139, Offshore Holdings Pvt. Ltd. v. Bangalore Development Authority &
Ors.) (supra) which deserve to be considered in extenso and read as follows:-
> ―71. The Courts have taken a consistent view and it is well-settled law that
> various Entries in three lists are not powers of legislation but are fields
> of legislation. The power to legislate flows, amongst others, from Article
> 246 of the Constitution.
Article 246(2), being the source of power incorporates the non- obstante
clause, 'notwithstanding anything contained in Clause (3), Parliament and,
subject to Clause (1), the legislature of any State' have power to make laws
W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 107 of 531 with respect to any of the matters
enumerated in List III. Article 246 clearly demarcates the fields of
legislative power of the two legislative constituents. It clearly states on
what field, with reference to the relevant constitutional Lists and which of
the legislative constituents has power to legislate in terms of Article 246 of
the Constitution. While the States would have exclusive power to legislate
under Article 246(2) of the Constitution in relation to List II; the
Concurrent List keeps the field open for enactment of laws by either of the
legislative constituents.‖ (Emphasis by us) It is therefore well settled that
the entries in the Lists provide the field in which the Parliament or the
State Legislature may legislate. Power to legislate therefore cannot be
sourced to entries in the Lists. Authority has to be found in the substantive
constitutional provisions.
185\. It is trite that the power to legislate flows from Article 246 of the
Constitution. The Constitution recognizes only two legislative constituencies
i.e. the Parliament and the State Legislative Assemblies as is manifested by
Article 246 and the Seventh Schedule. The Lists do not confer or create the
power to legislate, but only define the field of legislation, the boundaries
of the separation of power with regard to the field of legislation. Article
246(3) is applicable only to States, and not to Union Territories. It
therefore needs no further elaboration that the Delhi Legislative Assembly
cannot source its legislative competence to legislate on W.P.(C)No.4770/2012
page 108 of 531 the subject of court fees (other than those applicable to the
Supreme Court) to Entry 3 in List II which is the State List. On the other
hand, Parliament has the legislative competence by virtue of Article 246(3)
and Article 239AA(3)(b) to make laws in respect of all entries in all lists.
186\. Article 246(1) contains a non obstante clause, while sub clauses (2) and
(3) contain the expression ―subject to‖. As such, the Parliament's power under
Article 246(4) to legislate on subjects even in List II (State List) in
respect of the Union Territories is primary. Therefore, a law made by
Parliament will prevail over any law made by the Delhi Legislative Assembly,
including any law made with respect to fees for the High Court or the
subordinate courts.
187\. The Delhi Legislative Assembly has also no power to effect legislation
with regard to any subject on which there is an existing Central legislation.
By virtue of Article 246(4), only the Parliament is empowered to amend or
repeal a central legislation.
188\. We have noted above that in New Delhi Municipal Council v. State of
Punjab (supra) (SCC pg 414 paras 152 -156), it was held that the three Lists
in the Seventh Schedule of the Constitution have no relevance to the Union
Territory of Delhi since Parliament can make law respecting all the entries in
all the three Lists. So far as Delhi is concerned, there is, thus, no
separation of legislative power by the Lists. The Parliament remains supreme
so far W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 109 of 531 legislation on any of the subject
matters including that under Entry 3 of List II, which is relied upon by the
respondents.
189\. On the concept of ‗occupied field' in AIR 2003 Delhi 317, Geetika Panwar
& Ors. v. Government of NCT, Delhi where amendment Act of Delhi High Court,
1996 was in question held as under:-
> ―40. ...Field of legislation with regard to constitution and organisation of
> High Courts was an occupied field by the Parliamentary legislation, namely,
> the Delhi High Court Act, 1966, therefore; also the Delhi Legislative
> Assembly had no competence to enact the impugned legislation.‖
190\. In the instant case, the Central Court Fees Act, 1870 admittedly
occupies the field. Therefore, once there is a Central Legislation, the same
can be amended by the Parliament alone, in the Union Territory of Delhi.
For all these reasons, it has to be held that the Delhi Legislative Assembly
has no legislative competence to legislate on the same subject. Article 239AA
of the Constitution does not empower the Delhi Legislative Assembly to enact
any law on the same subject or effect any amendment thereto.
II Purpose of Statement of Objects and Reasons in a legislation- whether
essential and whether it is an aid to legislative interpretation?
191\. The petitioners points out that the Court Fees Act was
W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 110 of 531 amended in 1867 to enhance the court fee.
However, in view of the repressive effect on the litigation of the 1867 court
fees enhancement on the general litigation of the country, it had to be
amended within two years in 1870 to lower the court fees.
192\. The reasons detailed in the Statement of Objects and Reasons of the
Court Fees Act, 1870 are relevant for the present consideration. The material
extract thereof reads as follows:-
> ―The rates of Stamp fees leviable in Courts and offices established beyond
> the local limits of the ordinary original civil jurisdiction of the High
> Courts of Judicature at Fort William, Madras and Bombay, and in proceedings
> on the appellate side of such High Courts, were, as fixed by Act XXVI of
> 1867, to a great extent tentative.
> The experience gained of their working during the two years in which they
> have been in force, seems to be conclusive as to their repressive effect on
> the general litigation of the country.
> It is, therefore, thought expedient to make a general reduction in the rates
> now chargeable on the institution of civil suits, and to revert to the
> principle of maximum fee which obtained under the former law.
It is proposed also to reduce the valuation fixed by the existing law for the
computation of the fee leviable on suits relating to land under temporary
settlement or land exempt from the payment of revenue to the Government which
is believed to be at least relatively excessive as compared with the valuation
of permanently settled land; and to provide for the valuation of suits
relating to mere parcels of land W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 111 of 531 which,
though forming part of estates under settlement, bear no specific allotment of
any portion of the assessment of Government revenue on such estates, at the
estimated selling price of such land, as was the rule in those cases under Act
X of 1862.
The want of some fixed valuation applicable to certain classes on suits, as
for example, suits instituted between landlord and tenant to recover a right
of occupancy or enforce adjustment, or suits for maintenance or for an annuity
the subject-matter of which though not absolutely indeterminable, is certainly
not susceptible of ready determination, has given rise to much uncertainty and
variety in the procedure adopted by the several Courts in such cases; and the
amendment of the existing law in this respect is felt to be urgently called
for.
xxx xxx xxx The ad valorem fee now chargeable on summary suits instituted
under Act XVI of 1838 and the Bombay Act (5 of 1864), is represented as
working unsatisfactorily, and the substitution of a fixed rate is recommended.
It is to be observed that an award in such cases is liable to be set aside by
a judgment passed in regard to the same matter in a regular suit; hence it
appears more equitable to treat these summary suits as miscellaneous
applications and to subject them to a similar fixed institution fee.
As the Bill provides for a considerable reduction of the fees heretofore
chargeable on civil suits of small amount, it seems unnecessary to maintain
the present distinction between the Courts of Cantonment Joint Magistrates and
other Civil Courts in respect of the amount of fee leviable on the institution
of such W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 112 of 531 suits.‖ (Emphasis by us)
193\. So far as the fees imposed on petitions in criminal courts is concerned,
the Statement of Objects and Reasons to the 1870 enactment make the following
declaration:-
> ―In deference to the strong objections entertained by the local authorities
> in certain Provinces to the retention of the fee imposed on the presentation
> of certain petitions in the Criminal Courts, it is proposed to reduce the
> amount of such fee from one rupee to eight annas.‖
194\. The Statement of Objects also clearly set out the statutory intendment
so far as the court fees on revenue petitions; and request of the military
courts are concerned in the following terms:-
> ―The uniform exaction of a fee of eight annas in the case of all petitions
> addressed to a Revenue Officer or a Magistrate, works harshly in its
> application to such communications when presented by persons having dealings
> or transactions with the Government in relation to such transactions.
> Equitable considerations require that petitions of this kind should be
> excepted from the operation of the general rule, and the Bill makes suitable
> provision for such cases.
> xxx xxx xxx It is proposed also to exempt suits instituted in a Military
> Court of Requests from the payment of any fee. The constitution of such
> Courts is peculiar; they form no part of the regular machinery employed in
> W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 113 of 531 the general administration of justice,
> the present measure therefore is inapplicable to them. Moreover, the suitor
> in such Courts is placed at this disadvantage as compared with suitors in
> the ordinary Civil Courts that, although he may gain his case, he is unable
> to recover the costs which he has incurred in prosecuting his claim; hence
> the incidence of the taxation imposed by the levy of an institution fee in
> such cases is inequitable.‖
195\. With regard to the cases relating to marriage, the Statement of Objects
and Reasons contained the following statements:-
> ―Suits for the restitution of wives, which are of common occurrence in
> Punjab are held to be somewhat excessively taxed under the present law,
> which prescribes that in suits the money value of the subject-matter of
> which cannot be estimated, fixed fee of Rs.10 shall be levied; the Bill
> substitutes for that rate in such cases, a special fee of Rs.5.‖
196\. Referring to the introduction while proposing the amendment to the Court
Fees Act, 1867, as well as the Statement of Objects and Reasons for the Court
Fees Act, 1870 (amendment to the 1867 Act), it is submitted that the object of
the 1870 amendment was to reduce the court fees so that it will not act as a
deterrent for a person who seeks redressal of his/her grievance from the
court.
197\. Despite the fact that different court fees statutes governing different
jurisdictions in the country, the legislative purpose of such statutes would
be the same.
W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 114 of 531
198\. The consideration by Legislature in 1870 reflects a close scrutiny of
the statutory provisions vis-a-vis the object of the statute. The amended
Court Fees Act of 1870 was declared to be more equitable to the general
community. The rearrangement of the existing provisions as well as the change
of nomenclature from judicial stamps to court fees was effected to avoid
confusion and this was also noted in the Statement of Objects and Reasons.
The Statement of Objects and Reasons of 1870 Act itself speaks of the need for
reduction of court fee.
199\. Interestingly, the above Statement of Objects and Reasons for the
Central Act, remains unchanged even in the impugned legislation of 2012. This
statement sheds valuable light on the reasons for the legislation. The rates
of courts fees have been increased manifold by the impugned amendment without
even considering the Statement of Objects and Reasons of the statute which
remain a part of the impugned legislation. The impugned amendment is thus
contrary to the very scheme and object of the Act itself.
200\. In the present case, ―The Court Fees (Delhi Amendment) Act, 2012‖ as its
preamble, proceeds only to state that it is ―An Act further to amend the Court
Fees Act, 1870 in its application to the National Capital Territory of Delhi‖.
201\. If the object and reasons of the Act remain the same as the
W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 115 of 531 existing statute, an amendment cannot make
the statutory provisions completely derogatory to the scheme of the enactment
and contrary to the very intent of the statute.
202\. To understand the purpose of the Statement of Objects and Reasons of a
legislative Bill and the extent to which it serves as a valuable aid to
legislative interpretation, we may usefully advert to the observations of the
Supreme Court in (1987) 3 SCC 279 Utkal Contractors & Joinery (P) Ltd. v.
State of Orissa. In this pronouncement the Court while interpreting the
provisions of the Orissa Forest Produce (Control of Trade) Act, 1981 stated
thus:
> ―9. ...A statute is best understood if we know the reason for it. The reason
> for a statute is the safest guide to its interpretation. The words of a
> statute take their colour from the reason for it. How do we discover the
> reason for a statute? There are external and internal aids. The external
> aids are Statement of Objects and Reasons when the Bill is presented to
> Parliament, the reports of committees which preceded the Bill and the
> reports of Parliamentary Committees. Occasional excursions into the debates
> of Parliament are permitted. Internal aids are the preamble, the scheme and
> the provisions of the Act. Having discovered the reason for the statute and
> so having set the sail to the wind, the interpreter may proceed ahead. No
> provision in the statute and no word of the statute may be construed in
> isolation. Every provision and every word must be looked at generally before
> any provision or word is attempted to be construed.
The setting and the pattern are important. It is again important to remember
that Parliament does not waste its breath unnecessarily. Just as Parliament is
not W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 116 of 531 expected to use unnecessary
expressions, Parliament is also not expected to express itself unnecessarily.
Even as Parliament does not use any word without meaning something, Parliament
does not legislate where no legislation is called for. Parliament cannot be
assumed to legislate for the sake of legislation; nor can it be assumed to
make pointless legislation. Parliament does not indulge in legislation merely
to state what it is unnecessary to state or to do what is already validly
done. Parliament may not be assumed to legislate unnecessarily.‖ (Underlining
by us)
203\. So far as the position of the Statement of Objects and Reasons for a
Bill in the legislative scheme is concerned, the same has also been discussed
in paras 66 to 68 of the pronouncement reported at (2011) 8 SCC 737, State of
Tamil Nadu and Others v. K. Shyam Sunder and Others. Thereafter, the court
also clearly set down the purpose for which said Statement of Objects and
Reasons could be utilized thus:
> ―66. The Statement of Objects and Reasons appended to the Bill is not
> admissible as an aid to the construction of the Act to be passed, but it can
> be used for limited purpose for ascertaining the conditions which prevailed
> at that time which necessitated the making of the law, and the extent and
> urgency of the evil, which it sought to remedy.
The Statement of Objects and Reasons may be relevant to find out what is the
objective of any given statute passed by the legislature. It may provide for
the reasons which induced the legislature to enact the statute. "For the
purpose of deciphering the objects and purport of the Act, the
W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 117 of 531 court can look to the Statement of Objects
and Reasons thereof".
xxx xxx xxx
68\. Thus, in view of the above, the Statement of Objects and Reasons of any
enactment spells out the core reason for which the enactment is brought and it
can be looked into for appreciating the true intent of the legislature or to
find out the object sought to be achieved by enactment of the particular Act
or even for judging the reasonableness of the classifications made by such
Act.‖ (Emphasis by us)
204\. On this issue in (2009) 8 SCC 431 (at pg 436), A. Manjula Bhashini v.
A.P. Women‟s Coop. Finance Corpn. Ltd., the Supreme Court observed as
follows:-
> ―40. The proposition which can be culled out from the aforementioned
> judgments is that although the Statement of Objects and Reasons contained in
> the Bill leading to enactment of the particular Act cannot be made the sole
> basis for construing the provisions contained therein, the same can be
> referred to for understanding the background, the antecedent state of
> affairs and the mischief sought to be remedied by the statute. The Statement
> of Objects and Reasons can also be looked into as an external aid for
> appreciating the true intent of the legislature and/or the object sought to
> be achieved by enactment of the particular Act or for judging reasonableness
> of the classification made by such Act.‖ (Emphasis by us)
> W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 118 of 531
205\. The Statement of Objects and Reasons can therefore be looked at for
appreciating the true intent of the legislature and/or object sought to be
achieved by enactment of the particular Act. It is well settled that the
Statement of Objects and Reasons in an enactment enables determination of the
object sought to be achieved as well as for judging the reasonableness of the
classification. This court can in all fairness advert to the same for the
purpose.
206\. The further question which arises is as to what would be the effect of a
failure of the legislature to provide a Statement of Objects and Reasons for a
Bill and enactment. In (1826) 162 E.R. 456 Brett v. Brett, it was held that
failure to state the objects and reasons would render the legislation
arbitrary. We are not sure that this by itself would permit us to so hold.
207\. The present case is one in which a statutory amendment has been effected
without any amendment having been effected to the ‗Statement of Objects and
Reasons' to the Court Fees Act, 1870. It has been submitted before us
therefore, that the amended Delhi Court Fees Act (impugned before us) remains
in the same spirit, intendment and purpose as was declared in the Statement of
Objects and Reasons of the 1870 enactment.
208\. So far as the Court Fees Act, 1870 is concerned, in (1890) I.L.R. 12 ALL
129, Bal Karan Rai v Gobind Nath it was noticed that the Act has no preamble
and it was held that it is for the judges W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 119 of 531
to decide what its objects were from its enacting clauses.
209\. We are thus confronted with the hard reality that barely two years after
enhancement of the court fee in 1867, the legislature was compelled to amend
the statute again in 1870 to effectuate a reduction thereto in view of the
regressive effect of the enhanced court fee on litigation. The legislature
incorporated elaborate reasoning for this reduction which stands articulated
as the ‗Statement of Objects and Reasons' to the 1870 amendment.
210\. It is astonishing that when the respondents have effected the impugned
amendment in 2012 resulting in enhancement of the court fee by more than 100
times for certain items, they have not substituted (or amended) the existing
objectives in the legislation of 1870. As a result, the amended enactment of
2012 is prefaced by the very reasoning which guided the legislature in 1870 to
reduce the court fee! The inevitable conclusion is that the objectives for the
court fee regime remain unchanged - yet, by the impugned legislation, the
respondents have enacted statutory provisions completely to the contrary. We
may note that before us, the respondents do not even attempt to reconcile the
contradiction between the stated objects and reasons with the legislative
amendment which has been effectuated. This illustrates the complete lack of
application of mind and absence of the requisite seriousness with which, a
legislative exercise, having such a deep impact on the constitutional rights
of every person in Delhi, ought to have been undertaken.
    W.P.(C)No.4770/2012                                    page 120 of 531
     III    Can legislative history; social context; writings of
experts/ authors; reports of commissions/committees preceding the enactment be
utilized by the court as permissible external aids to construction of
legislation?
211\. Before this court, the petitioners place strong reliance on the
Statement of Objects and Reasons to the Court Fees Act, 1870, writings on the
subject as Reports of the Law Commission of India especially the 189th Report
of 2004 titled ―Revision of the Court fee Structure‖ and prior reports in
support of the challenge to the amendment of 2012 to the Schedule of the Court
Fees Act, 1870. An examination of the important issues pressed by both sides
would inevitably require that we look at the said Reports. Before doing so, we
deem essential an examination of the extent to which reliance can be placed on
these aids by the court.
212\. Mr. Chandhiok, learned Senior Counsel places reliance on the
pronouncement of the Supreme Court reported at AIR 1984 SC 684, R.S. Nayak v.
A.R. Antulay in support of his submissions on the permissibility of the
reliance on the Statement of Objects and Reasons as well as the Law Commission
Reports. The Supreme Court ruled that the history of the legislation,
recommendations of Committees and Commissions, information collected before
effecting the enactment are important aids for ascertaining the intention of
the legislature. The objections of the respondents before the Supreme Court as
well observations and findings of the court on this issue in paras 31, 33 and
34 of this judgment deserve W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 121 of 531 to be
considered in extenso and read as follows:-
> ―31. At the threshold learned Counsel for the accused sounded a note of
> caution that the Court should steer clear of the impermissible attempt of
> the appellant to arrive at a true meaning of a legislative provision by
> delving deep into the hoary past and tracing the historical evolution of the
> provision awaiting construction. It was submitted with emphasis that this
> suggested external aid to construction falls in the exclusionary rule and
> cannot be availed of. Therefore, it has become necessary to examine this
> preliminary objection to the court resorting to this external aid to
> construction.
> xxx xxx xxx
> 33\. The trend certainly seems to be in the reverse gear in that in order to
> ascertain the true meaning of ambiguous words in a statute, reference to the
> reports and recommendations of the Commission or Committee which preceded
> the enactment of the statute are held legitimate external aids to
> construction. The modern approach has to a considerable extent eroded the
> exclusionary rule even in England. A Constitution Bench of this Court after
> specifically referring to Assam Railways and Trading Co. Ltd. v. I.R.C. in
> State of Mysore v. R.V. Bidap : (1973)IILLJ418SC observed as under:
The trend of academic opinion and the practice in the European system suggest
that interpretation of a statute being an exercise in the ascertainment of
meaning, everything which is logically relevant should be admissible. There is
a strong case for whittling down the Rule of Exclusion followed in the British
courts, and for less apologetic reference to legislative proceedings and like
materials to read the meaning of the words of a statute. Where it is plain,
W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 122 of 531 the language prevails, but where there is
obscurity or lack of harmony with other provisions and in other special
circumstances, it may be legitimate to take external assistance such as the
object of the provisions, the mischief sought to be remedied, the social
context, the words of the authors and other allied matters.
xxx xxx xxx
34\. ...At the very least, ascertainment of the statutory objective can
immediately eliminate many of the possible meanings that the language of the
Act might bear; and, if an ambiguity still remains, consideration of the
statutory objective is one of the means of resolving it.
The statutory objective is primarily to be collected from the provisions of
the statute itself. In these days, when the long title can be amended in both
Houses, I can see no reason for having recourse to it only in case of an
ambiguity--it is the plainest of all the guides to the general objectives of a
statute. But it will not always help as to particular provisions. As to the
statutory objective of these, a report leading to the Act is likely to be the
most potent aid; and, in my judgment, it would be more obscurantism not to
avail oneself of it. There is, indeed clear and high authority that it is
available for this purpose.
...A reference to Halsbury's Laws of England, Fourth Edition, Vol. 44
paragraph 901, would leave no one in doubt that ―reports of commissions or
committees preceding the enactment of a statute may be considered as showing
the mischief aimed at and the state of the law as it was understood to be by
the legislature when the statute was passed‖. In the footnote under the
statement of law cases quoted amongst others are R.
W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 123 of 531 v. Ulugboja [1981] 3 All. E. R. 443, R. v.
Bloxham [1982] 1 All. E. R. 582 in which Eighth report of Criminal Law
Revision Committee was admitted as an extrinsic aid to construction.
Therefore, it can be confidently said that the exclusionary rule is flickering
in its dying embers in its native land of birth and has been given a decent
burial by this Court. Even apart from precedents the basic purpose underlying
all canons of construction is the ascertainment with reasonable certainty of
the intention of Parliament in enacting the legislation. Legislation is
enacted to achieve a certain object. The object may be to remedy a mischief or
to create some rights, obligations or impose duties. Before undertaking the
exercise of enacting a statute, Parliament can be taken to be aware of the
constitutional principle of judicial review meaning thereby the legislation
would be dissected and subjected to microscopic examination. More often an
expert committee or a Joint-
Parliamentary committee examines the provisions of the proposed legislation.
But language being an inadequate vehicle of thought comprising intention, the
eyes scanning the statute would be presented with varied meanings. If the
basic purpose underlying construction of a legislation is to ascertain the
real intention of the Parliament, why should the aids which Parliament availed
of such as report of a special committee preceding the enactment, existing
state of law, the environment necessitating enactment of legislation, and the
object sought to be achieved, be denied to court whose function is primarily
to give effect to the real intention of the Parliament in enacting the
legislation. Such denial would deprive the court of a substantial and
illuminating aid to construction. Therefore, departing from the earlier
English decisions we are of the opinion that reports of the committee which
W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 124 of 531 preceded the enactment of a legislation,
reports of Joint Parliamentary Committee, report of a commission set up for
collecting information leading to the enactment are permissible external aids
to construction. In this connection, it would be advantageous to refer to a
passage from Crawford on Statutory Construction (page 388). It reads as under:
> ―The judicial opinion on this point is certainly not quite uniform and there
> are American decisions to the effect that the general history of a statute
> and the various steps leading upto an enactment including amendments or
> modifications of the original bill and reports of Legislative Committees can
> be looked at for ascertaining the intention of the legislature where it is
> in doubt but they hold definitely that the legislative history is
> inadmissible when there is no obscurity in the meaning of the statute.‖ In
> United States v. St. Paul, M.M. Rly. Co. 62 L ed. 1130 it is observed that
> the reports of a committee, including the bill as introduced, changes 'made
> in the frame of the bill in the course of its passage and the statement made
> by the committee chairman incharge of it, stand upon a different footing,
> and may be resorted to under proper qualifications'. The objection therefore
> of Mr. Singhvi to our looking into the history of the evolution of the
> section with all its clauses, the Reports of Mudiman Committee and K.
> Santhanam Committee and such other external aids to construction must be
> overruled.‖ (Emphasis by us)
213\. We find that several reports of the Law Commission of India
W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 125 of 531 have commented upon the spirit, intendment
and purpose of imposition of court fees. Our attention has been drawn to the 1
st, 28th and 114th Reports of the Law Commission of India which make
recommendations qua several facets of the challenge laid before us. The 189th
Report of the Law Commission is devoted to a close examination of the court
fees regime.
214\. Mr. J.P. Sengh, learned Senior Counsel has submitted that the courts
have also attached a great weightage to the reports of the Law Commission. In
this regard, reference is made to the pronouncement of the Supreme Court in
AIR 1992 SC 165, All India Judges Association (I) v. Union of India; (1995) 4
SCC 262, State of Madhya Pradesh v. Shyam Sunder Trivedi and (1999) 6 SCC 591,
Sakshi v. Union of India.
215\. Let us also examine the weight and worth of such recommendations. In AIR
1992 SC 165, All India Judges Association (I) v. Union of India, the court
ruled as follows:-
―10A. ...The main objection against implementation of the recommendation of
the Law Commission relating to the setting up of the All India Judicial
Service was founded upon the basis that control contemplated under Article235
of the Constitution would be affected if an All India Judicial Service on the
pattern of All India Services Act, 1951, is created. We are of the view that
the Law Commission's recommendation should not have been dropped lightly.
There is considerable force and merit in the view expressed by the Law
Commission...‖ (Emphasis by us) W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 126 of 531
216\. In (1995) 4 SCC 262, State of Madhya Pradesh v. Shyam Sunder Trivedi,
the court held thus:-
> ―18. In its 4th Report of June 1980, The National Police Commission noticed
> the prevalence of custodial torture etc. and observed that nothing is so
> dehumanising as the conduct of police in practising torture of any kind on a
> person in their custody.
> xxx xxx xxx Disturbed by this situation, the Law Commission in its 113th
> Report recommended amendments to the Indian Evidence Act so as to provide
> that in the prosecution of a police officer for an alleged offence of having
> caused bodily injuries to a person while in police custody, if there is
> evidence that the injury was caused during the period when the person was in
> the police custody, the Court may presume that the injury was caused by the
> police officer having the custody of that person during that period unless,
> the police officer proves to the contrary. The onus to prove the contrary
> must be discharged by the police official concerned. The recommendation,
> however, we notice with concern, appears to have gone unnoticed and the
> crime of custodial torture etc. flourishes unabated.
Keeping in view the dehumanising aspect of the crime, the flagrant violation
of the fundamental rights of the victim of the crime and the growing rise in
the crimes of this type, where only a few come to light and others don't, we
hope that the Government and Legislature would give serious thought to the
recommendation of the Law Commission (supra) and bring about appropriate
changes in the law not only to curb the custodial crime but also to see that
the custodial crime does not go unpunished....‖ (Emphasis by us)
W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 127 of 531
217\. Given the dilution of the rule of exclusion of the written material as
noticed above as an aid for statutory interpretation, it is well settled that
the reports of the Law Commissions are valuable external aids to statutory
interpretation.
218\. The Law Commission is established by an order of the Government of
India, constituted for reforming the law for maximising justice in society and
promoting good governance under the Rule of Law. The Commission has a fixed
tenure and works as an advisory body to the Ministry of Law and Justice. The
Chairpersons of the Commission have been retired Judges of the Supreme Court
(except for Mr M.C. Setalvad, who was the former Attorney General and Chairman
of the 1st Law Commission; and Mr K.V. Sundaram, a civil servant, the Chairman
of the 5 th Law Commission). This fact adds to the prominence of the
Commission and the conclusive nature of its research based reports.
219\. The 114th Report of the Law Commission of India on Gram Nyalayaya
authored by the 11th Law Commission was chaired by Mr. Justice D.A. Desai and
the 189th Report of the Law Commission of India on Revision of Court Fees
Structure was authored by the 17th Law Commission which was chaired by Mr.
Justice M.J. Rao. Each Law Commission is appointed by an order of the
President. For instance the 20th Law Commission of India was appointed for a
period of three years from 1st of September 2012 to 31st of August 2015 by a
Government of India order dated 8th of October, 2012.
W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 128 of 531
220\. The Supreme Court has repeatedly called upon the Government to act upon
the Reports of the Law Commission of India and to consider the Reports as well
as bring appropriate legislation thereon. Judicial precedent has unequivocally
declared that such reports of expert committees can also be examined as
external aids to statutory interpretation, especially when there is no clarity
about the objective of the provision.
221\. The recommendations by the Law Commission of India have been made after
a deep study and analysis of relevant material from India and abroad,
extensive and authoritative jurisprudence and comments of legal experts. To
say the least, the 189 th Report of the Law Commission making reference to the
principles laid down by the Supreme Court on the very pertinent issues with
regard to the imposition and effect of court fees as well as material from
jurisdictions from different parts of the world necessitated and deserved
attention and scrutiny by the legal and financial experts who have
recommended, guided and effectuated the impugned amendment. It appears to us
that the respondents have ignored the reports and recommendations of the Law
Commission, relevant pronouncements and directions of the Supreme Court on the
issue as well as the importance of the recommendations of the Law Commission,
the expert body devoted to the work of legal reform. The sole report of the
Sub Committee of the respondents which was the basis of the recommendation
makes no reference to any of the above. These important basic issues were not
drawn to the W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 129 of 531 attention of any person or
authority concerned in any manner with the making of the impugned law. The
discussions, conclusions and recommendations in these reports are relevant
material in considering any change in the law involving court fees.
We have no hesitation in concluding that the respondents have therefore
excluded relevant material from their consideration and have effected the
impugned statutory amendment without application of mind thereto.
222\. We could end our examination of the challenge to the impugned
legislation at this point given our findings that the Delhi Legislative
Assembly lacked the competence to amend the Court Fees Act, 1870. However, the
petitioners have urged that even if this issue was decided in favour of the
respondents, the impugned legislation is not sustainable in view of violation
of Constitutional provisions and statutory procedure as well as several
fundamental and human rights of the people guaranteed under the Constitution.
We now propose to examine these submissions in seriatim.
IV Is the assent of the President justiciable? Scope and extent of the
permissible enquiry by the court The discussion on this subject is being
considered under the following sub-headings:
> (i) Whether requirements of Presidential „consideration‟ and „assent‟ under
> Articles 239AA and 254 are different?
    W.P.(C)No.4770/2012                                    page 130 of 531
            (ii)    Whether Presidential assent justiciable? If so, extent
                   and manner
> (iii) Whether grant of Presidential assent is exercise of legislative power?
> (iv) Whether Presidential „consideration‟ and „assent‟ are exercise of
> legislative power?
> (v) Respondent‟s objection to production of records
> (vi) Burden of establishing existence of material and compliance with the
> pre-conditions
> (vii) „Consideration‟ and „assent‟- how accorded
> (viii) Scope of judicial review of the Presidential consideration
> (ix) Whether requirements for seeking "general" assent are different from
> those for seeking "specific" assent
> (x) Position in the present case: exercise undertaken by the respondents
223\. The petitioner has submitted that Presidential assent was sought because
the proposed legislation was repugnant to the provisions of the Court Fees
Act, 1870, a Central legislation. A challenge is also laid on grounds of non-
compliance of constitutional provisions under Article 239 AA (3)(c). The
petitioners contend that the matter of Presidential assent, be it general or
specific cannot be treated with the informality and simplicity with which the
respondents have treated it so.
224\. It has been submitted by Mr. Chandhiok learned Senior Counsel for the
petitioners that courts can always examine whether W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page
131 of 531 the preconditions for exercise of power by constitutional
authorities have been satisfied or not, and that this principle of judicial
review applies in the case of a Bill which is reserved for the consideration
of the President as well. In support of this contention, the petitioners have
extensively relied upon the binding pronouncements of the Supreme Court in a
plethora of judgments including AIR 1955 Bombay 35 Basantlal Banarsilal v.
Bansilal Dagdulal; (1985) 3 SCC 661 Gram Panchayat of Village Jamalpur v.
Malwinder Singh &Ors.; (2002) 8 SCC 182 Kaiser-i- Hind Pvt. Ltd. v. National
Textile Corporation (Maharashtra North) Ltd. &Ors.; (2009) 5 SCC 342 Grand
Kakatiya Sheraton Hotel and Towers Employees and Workers Union v. Srinivasa
Resorts Ltd. In the discussion which follows we shall deal with each of these
judgments individually.
225\. The petitioners contend that the consideration and assent of the
President require active application of mind to the repugnancy pointed out
between the proposed law/amendment and the earlier Central enactment and to
the necessity of having a different State law. They stress that assent must
indicate an affirmative acceptance or concurrence to the demand made by the
State and that this cannot be done without consideration of the relevant
material. The proposal, the petitioners insist, should contain each provision
which is repugnant to the Central law and must also specify the reasons for
enacting the new law for that state. In support of this contention the
petitioners rely on (2009) 5 SCC 342 W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 132 of 531 Grand
Kakatiya Sheraton Hotel and Towers Employees and Workers Union v. Srinivasa
Resorts Ltd.
226\. The petitioners further contend that the power to grant assent is not an
exercise of legislative power but is a part of legislative procedure, and
keeping in mind that procedure and pre-conditions as prescribed under the
Constitution are always subject to judicial review, the court can examine
whether the constitutional procedure was followed before the assent was
granted.
227\. On the other hand, Mr. Harish Salve, learned Senior Counsel for the
respondents submits that Presidential assent having been accorded to the
legislation, the challenge by the petitioner is misconceived. It is submitted
that Presidential consideration and assent are completely non-justiciable and
beyond judicial review by any Court. The respondents further contend that the
judicial precedents relied upon by the petitioners have been rendered in the
context of cases involving Article 254 of the Constitution which have no
bearing on the case at hand. Mr. Harish Salve, learned Senior Counsel for the
respondent has taken the objection that the requirements of Presidential
assent under Articles 254(2) and 239AA are distinct. The respondents submit
that when a State law is repugnant to a law made by the Parliament and assent
of the President is sought under Article 254(2), the President is required to
consider the issue from the perspective of two equally competent legislatures,
in the framework of India's quasi-federal constitutional structure. In the
present case, it is submitted that the W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 133 of 531
President is required to consider the matter from the perspective of the
National Capital Territory of Delhi which seeks to depart from a law which
otherwise prevails all over the country.
228\. Relying upon (1997) 7 SCC 339, NDMC v. State of Punjab, the respondents
submit that on the other hand, this is not the case under Article 239 AA as in
this case, the plenary power to legislate upon any matter relating to Delhi
vests with the Parliament. It is submitted that in such a case, when
Presidential assent is sought under Article 239 AA and especially for a law
which falls under List II, all that the President is considering is an earlier
law (Parliamentary or otherwise), which prevailed in Delhi.
Whether requirements of Presidential „consideration‟ and „assent‟ under
Articles 239AA and 254 are different?
229\. In view of the distinction, being drawn by the respondents to
Presidential ‗consideration' and ‗assent' under the two Constitutional
provisions, it behoves us to examine this contention of distinctiveness of the
two articles - Article 254 and Article 239AA - in some detail.
230\. The petitioners and the respondents have made claims concerning the
nature of repugnancy between a law proposed by the Delhi Legislative Assembly
and a Central law, as well as the constitutional requirements of Presidential
assent, if sought, to cure such repugnancy. Article 239AA(3)(c) of the
Constitution provides:
W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 134 of 531 ―If any provision of a law made by the
Legislative Assembly with respect to any matter is repugnant to any provision
of a law made by Parliament with respect to that matter, whether passed before
or after the law made by the Legislative Assembly, or of an earlier law, other
than a law made by the Legislative Assembly, then, in either case, the law
made by Parliament, or, as the case may be, such earlier law, shall prevail
and the law made by the Legislative Assembly shall, to the extent of the
repugnancy, be void...‖ [Article 239AA (3)(c)]
231\. It is apparent from the scheme of Article 239AA that sub- clause 3(a)
confers power, while sub-clause 3(b) reiterates the supremacy of the
Parliament. By virtue of sub-clause 3(c), if the law made by the Legislative
Assembly is repugnant to a Central enactment, it has been consistently and
unequivocally declared as void. Such repugnant law is however, saved by
operation of the proviso to Article 239AA(3) which provides that if such
repugnant law is reserved for the consideration of the President and receives
his assent, then such law shall prevail. It is noteworthy that the second
proviso thereafter again reinforces the supremacy of the Parliament.
232\. It is necessary to set out Article 254 for convenience as well, which
reads thus:
> ―254. Inconsistency between laws made by Parliament and laws made by the
> Legislatures of States.--(1) If any provision of a law made by the
> Legislature of a State is repugnant to any provision of a law made by
> Parliament which Parliament is W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 135 of 531 competent
> to enact, or to any provision of an existing law with respect to one of the
> matters enumerated in the Concurrent List, then, subject to the provisions
> of Clause (2), the law made by Parliament, whether passed before or after
> the law made by the Legislature of such State, or, as the case may be, the
> existing law, shall prevail and the law made by the Legislature of the State
> shall, to the extent of the repugnancy, be void.‖
> 2\. Where a law made by the Legislature of a State with respect to one of
> the matters enumerated in the Concurrent List contains any provision
> repugnant to the provisions of an earlier law made by Parliament or an
> existing law with respect to that matter, then, the law so made by the
> Legislature of such State shall, if it has been reserved for the
> consideration of the President and has received his assent, prevail in that
> State:
> Provided that nothing in this clause shall prevent Parliament from enacting
> at any time any law with respect to the same matter including a law adding
> to, amending, varying or repealing the law so made by the Legislature of the
> State.‖
233\. We find use of the expressions ‗consideration' and ‗assent' of the
President in not only Articles 239AA and 254 of the Constitution, but also in
relevant statutory provisions of the Government of National Capital Territory
of Delhi Act, 1991 as well, which are reproduced hereafter:
> ―24. Assent to Bills: When a Bill has been passed by the Legislative
> Assembly, it shall be presented to the Lieutenant Governor and the
> Lieutenant Governor W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 136 of 531 shall declare either
> that he assents to the Bill or that he withholds assent therefrom or that he
> reserves the Bill for the consideration of the President :
> Provided that the Lieutenant Governor may, as soon as possible after the
> presentation of the Bill to him for assent, return the Bill if it is not a
> Money Bill together with a message requesting that the Assembly will
> consider the Bill or any specified provisions thereof, and, in particular,
> will consider the desirability of introducing any such amendments as he may
> recommend in his message and, when a Bill is so returned, the Assembly will
> reconsider the Bill accordingly, and if the Bill is passed again with or
> without amendment and presented to the Lieutenant Governor for assent, the
> Lieutenant Governor shall declare either that he assents to the Bill or that
> he reserves the Bill for the consideration of the President.
> Provided further that the Lieutenant Governor shall not assent to, but shall
> reserve for the consideration of the President, any Bill which:-
> (a) In the opinion of the Lieutenant Governor would, if it became law, so
> derogate from the powers of the High Court as to endanger the position which
> that Court is, by the Constitution, designed to fill; or
> (b) The President may, by order, direct to be reserved for the
> consideration; or
> (c) Relates to matters referred to in sub-section (5) of section 7 or
> section 19 or section 34 or sub-section (3) of section 43.
Explanation:- For the purposes of this section and section 25, a Bill shall be
deemed to be a Money Bill W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 137 of 531 if it contains
only provisions dealing with all or any of the matters specified in sub-
section(1) of section 22 or any matter incidental to any of those matters and,
in either case, there is endorsed thereon the certificate of the Speaker of
the Legislative Assembly signed by him that it is a Money Bill.
25\. Bills reserved for consideration: When a Bill is reserved by the
Lieutenant Governor for the consideration of the President, the President
shall declare either that he assents to the Bill or that he without assent
therefrom:
Provided that where the Bill is not a Money Bill, the President may direct the
Lieutenant Governor to return the Bill to the Legislative Assembly together
with such a message as is mentioned in the first proviso to section 24 and,
when a Bills is so returned, the Assembly shall reconsider it accordingly
within a period of six months from date of receipt of such message and, if it
is again passed by the Assembly with or without amendment, it shall be
presented again to the President for his consideration.
26\. Requirement as to sanction, etc: No act of the Legislative Assembly, and
no provision in any such Act, shall be invalid by reason only that some
previous sanction or recommendation required by this Act was not given, if
assent to that Act was given by the Lieutenant Governor, or, on being reserved
by the Lieutenant Governor for the consideration of the President, by the
President.
234\. A repugnancy may exist between a provision contained in any law made by
the Delhi Legislative Assembly, and a provision of any law made by Parliament
or any earlier Central enactment.
W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 138 of 531 When this is the case, Presidential assent
is sought in order to cure the repugnancy.
235\. As the text of Article 239AA makes clear that merely legislating ―in
respect of an earlier law‖ necessitates Presidential assent, Article 239AA
clarifies that Presidential assent is also necessary when the Delhi
Legislative Assembly adopts a law that is repugnant to a Central enactment. It
is worth noting that the identical provision for assent with respect to
repugnancies between State and Central laws [Article 254(2)] only requires
Presidential assent with respect to repugnancies. It does not require assent
because a State law is ―in respect of‖ an earlier law.
236\. Article 254 is concerned with legislative relations between the
Parliament and State legislatures in the context of legislative exercises
undertaken by them. Article 254(2) specifically relates to repugnancy in
legislation made by the legislature of a State and Parliamentary law or pre-
existing law and provides for how the situation would be resolved in case of
such repugnancy. Article 239 AA (3)(c) of the Constitution provides for
repugnancy between law made by the Delhi Legislative Assembly and law made by
the Parliament. Article 254(2) makes identical provision in respect of the law
made by the legislature of a State which is repugnant to a Central legislation
and having been reserved for the consideration of the President, has received
his assent, and shall prevail. Article 239AA(3)(c) uses identical expressions
in similar situations, the only difference being that while Article 254 is
concerned with State W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 139 of 531 legislations, Article
239AA (3)(c) is confined to legislation approved by the Delhi Legislative
Assembly.
237\. We find that while there is no jurisprudence on the specific aspect of
Presidential ‗consideration' and ‗assent' under Article 239 AA, several
judicial precedents of the Supreme Court have construed the expressions
reserved for ‗consideration' and ‗assent' in Article 254. It is necessary to
point that the entire jurisprudence cited before us relates to consideration
by and grant of Presidential assent under Article 254 of the Constitution,
whereas the instant case is concerned with Presidential consideration and
assent to a legislative proposal by the Delhi Legislative Assembly, a
Legislative Assembly of a Union Territory, under Article 239AA(3)(c).
238\. The respondents argue that the requirements of assent under Articles
254(2) and 239AA are distinct. The following discussion would show that
neither the law nor the facts support the contention raised on behalf of the
respondents. There is also neither statutory nor jurisprudential authority in
support of this proposition.
239\. In the first place, an examination of the provisions of Article 254 as
juxtaposed against Article 239AA bears out the similarity in the
constitutional provisions. But for the differences in the provision describing
State legislatures and the Delhi Legislative Assembly, the text of the
constitutional articles [Articles 239AA W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 140 of 531
and 254(2)] is identical.
240\. The only case cited by the respondent in support of this submission that
the requirements for Presidential assent under Article 239 AA are different
than those for assent under Article 254(2) is (1997) 7 SCC 339, NDMC v. State
of Punjab. We find that this decision provides little support for the
respondent's contention, as is evident from the following paragraph of the
same judgment:
> ―87. ...Having analysed the scheme of Part VIII of the Constitution
> including the changes brought into it, we are of the view that despite the
> fact that, of late, Union Territories have been granted greater powers, they
> continue to be very much under the control and supervision of the Union
> Government for their governance...It is possible that since Parliament may
> not have enough time at its disposal to enact entire volumes of legislations
> for certain Union Territories, it may decide, at least in respect of those
> Union Territories whose importance is enhanced on account of the size of
> their territories and their geographical location, that they should be given
> more autonomy in legislative matters.
However, these changes will not have the effect of making such Union
Territories as independent as the States. This point is best illustrated by
referring to the case of the National Capital Territory of Delhi which is
today a Union Territory and enjoys the maximum autonomy on account of the fact
that it has a Legislature created by the Constitution. However, Clauses 3(b)
and 3(c) of Article 239-AA make it abundantly clear that the plenary power to
legislate upon matter affecting Delhi still vests with Parliament as it
retains the power to legislate upon any matter relating to Delhi
W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 141 of 531 and, in the event of any repugnancy, it is
the Parliamentary law which will prevail. It is, therefore, clear that Union
Territories are in fact under the supervision of the Union Government and it
cannot be contended that their position is akin to that of the States. Having
analysed the relevant Constitutional provisions as also the applicable
precedents, we are of the view that under the scheme of the Indian
Constitution, the position of the Union Territories cannot be equated with
that of the States. Though they do have a separate identity within the
Constitutional framework, this will not enable them to avail of the privileges
available to the States.‖ (Emphasis by us)
241\. In the instant case, we are concerned with the use of expressions
‗consideration' and ‗assent' in two constitutional provisions.
242\. It is well settled principle of statutory interpretation that a phrase
which is used in several places in the statute has to be given the same
meaning and interpretation. This principle would apply to interpretation of
the words and expressions in the Constitution as well. In (1976) 2 ALL E.R.
721 Farrell v. Alexander (at page 85) it was declared that ―where the
draftsman uses the same word or phrase in similar contexts, he must be
presumed to intend it in each place to bear the same meaning.‖
243\. It is noteworthy that the phrase ‗consideration‖ as well as ‗assent' has
been used in Article 254 right from the inception. Article 254 is prior to the
69th Amendment to the Constitution W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 142 of 531
effected on 1st of February 1992 to incorporate Article 239AA in Part VIII
(Union Territories) wherein the same expression stands used. It therefore has
to be interpreted, understood and applied in the same manner for the purpose
of Article 254 as well as Article 239AA. For this reason, the jurisprudence on
the construction of the expressions ‗consideration' and ‗assent' in the
context of Article 254 applies with full force to the interpretation of these
expressions in Article 239AA.
We have no doubt at all that not only the expressions ‗consideration' and
assent', but other expressions as ‗satisfaction', ‗reservation' and
‗repugnancy' therefore would have the same meaning where so ever they are used
in the Constitution in similar context.
244\. The objection of the respondents that the requirements of Presidential
consideration and assent under Article 254 and 239AA are distinct is thus
devoid of legal merit and hereby rejected.
245\. Several authoritative pronouncements are to be found wherein these
expressions have been interpreted and the scope of judicial review in the
constitutional challenges to resultant legislations has been laid down. These
judicial pronouncements would bind the present consideration as well.
Whether Presidential assent justiciable? If so, extent and manner
246\. We now come to the contention on behalf of the respondents
W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 143 of 531 that once there is Presidential assent to
a proposed State law, it shall prevail over all Central enactments in the
State. Several aspects of the consideration of the other contention of the
respondents that Presidential assent is not justiciable overlap with this
submission.
247\. The respondents submit that the Court Fees (Delhi Amendment) Bill, 2012
was reserved for the consideration of the President and that Presidential
assent was accorded on the 4 th of June 2012. The primary argument is that
once accorded, the constitutionality of Presidential assent is not
justiciable. The respondents submit that the reasons why a Bill is sent to the
President for assent are not justiciable. They rely on the three Judge Bench
judgment in (1983) 4 SCC 45, Hoechst Pharmaceuticals Limited v. State of Bihar
where it was held by the Hon'ble Supreme Court that courts ―cannot look into
the reasons why the Bill was reserved by the Governor under Article 200 for
the assent of the President‖. The respondents have further submitted that the
aid and advice given to the President under Article 74(2) of the Constitution
and that given to the Lieutenant Governor under Section 42 of the Government
of National Capital Territory of Delhi Act, 1991 are also outside the scope of
judicial scrutiny.
248\. This objection is countered by Mr. Chandhiok, learned Senior Counsel
placing reliance on the pronouncements of the Supreme Court reported at (1994)
3 SCC 1, S.R. Bommai v. Union of India; (2002) 8 SCC 182, Kaiser-i-Hind Pvt.
Ltd. v. National W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 144 of 531 Textile Corporation
(Maharashtra North) Ltd. &Ors. and (2006) 2 SCC 1, Rameshwar Prasad v. Union
of India.
249\. To rule on the objections of the respondents, it is first necessary to
understand the nature of the consideration and assent by the President. We do
so hereafter.
Whether grant of Presidential assent is exercise of legislative power?
250\. In (1994) 3 SCC 1 S.R. Bommai v. Union of India & Ors., the Supreme
Court was concerned with the exercise of power by the President of India under
Article 356 of the Constitution of India to issue a proclamation on the aid
and advice of the Council of Ministers declaring emergency under Article 356
of the Constitution of India with regard to a State Government. Article 356(1)
contains the expression ‗Presidential satisfaction' with regard to the
prevalent situation on receipt of a report from the Governor. Though Article
356 requires Presidential ‗satisfaction' and Article 239AA mandates
Presidential ‗consideration', the importance of the subject matter of these
constitutional provisions, one relating to failure of the constitutional
machinery in a State and imposition of emergency; while the other relating to
assent to a proposal for enacting a law in the GNCT of Delhi which is
repugnant to a pre-existing Parliamentary legislation, cannot be emphasised
sufficiently. The observations of the court with regard to the scope of
judicial review; on the issue of the basis on which W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page
145 of 531 the President arrives at and records his satisfaction into this
matter would certainly guide the examination of the scope of inquiry into the
expressions ‗consideration' and ‗assent' in Article 239AA; the procedural
requirements and the compliance of the essential pre- conditions into the
crystallisation of the Presidential view as well as their interpretation are
relevant and read as follows:-
> ―JUDICIAL REVIEW AND JUSTICIABILITY:
> 59\. It is in the light of these other provisions relating to the emergency
> that we have to construe the provisions of Article 356. The crucial
> expressions in Article 356(1) are - if the President, "on the receipt of
> report from the Governor of a State or otherwise" "is satisfied" that "the
> situation has arisen in which the Government of the State cannot be carried
> on "in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution".
The conditions precedent to the issuance of the Proclamation, therefore, are:
(a) that the President should be satisfied either on the basis of a report
from the Governor of the State or otherwise, (b) that in fact a situation has
arisen in which the Government of the State cannot be carried on in accordance
with the provisions of the Constitution. In other words, the President's
satisfaction has to be based on objective material. That material may be
available in the report sent to him by the Governor or otherwise or both from
the report and other sources. Further, the objective material so available
must indicate that the Government of the State cannot be carried on in
accordance with the provisions of the Constitution. Thus the existence of the
objective material showing that the Government of the State cannot be carried
on in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution is a condition
precedent before the President issued the W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 146 of 531
Proclamation. Once such material is shown to exist, the satisfaction of the
President based on the material is not open to question, However, if there is
no such objective material before the President, or the material before him
cannot reasonably suggest that the Government of the State cannot be carried
on in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution, the Proclamation
issued is open to challenge.‖ (Emphasis by us)
251\. So far as the parameters of judicial review into the procedure leading
to such proclamation and the satisfaction of the President are concerned, it
was laid down in S.R. Bommai (supra) thus:
―ARTICLE 356 AND JUDICIAL REVIEW:
74\. From these authorities, one of the conclusions which may safely be drawn
is that the exercise of power by the President under Article 356(1) to issue
Proclamation is subject to the judicial review at least to the extent of
examining whether the conditions precedent to the issuance of the Proclamation
have been satisfied or not. This examination will necessarily involve the
scrutiny as to whether there existed material for the satisfaction of the
President that a situation had arisen in which the Government of the State
could not be carried on in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution.
Needless to emphasise that it is not any material but material which would
lead to the conclusion that the Government of the State cannot be carried on
in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution which is relevant for
the purpose. It has further to be remembered that the article requires that
the President ―has to be satisfied‖ that the situation in W.P.(C)No.4770/2012
page 147 of 531 question has arisen. Hence the material in question has to be
such as would induce a reasonable man to come to the conclusion in question.
The expression used in the article is ―if the President ... is satisfied‖. The
word ―satisfied‖ has been defined in Shorter Oxford English Dictionary (3rd
Edn. at p. 1792):
―4. To furnish with sufficient proof or information, to set free from doubt or
uncertainty, to convince; 5. To answer sufficiently (an objection, question);
to fulfil or comply with (a request); to solve (a doubt, difficulty); 6. To
answer the requirements of (a state of things, hypothesis, etc.); to accord
with (conditions).‖ Hence, it is not the personal whim, wish, view or opinion
or the ipse dixit of the President dehors the material but a legitimate
inference drawn from the material placed before him which is relevant for the
purpose. In other words, the President has to be convinced of or has to have
sufficient proof of information with regard to or has to be free from doubt or
uncertainty about the state of things indicating that the situation in
question has arisen. Although, therefore, the sufficiency or otherwise of the
material cannot be questioned, the legitimacy of inference drawn from such
material is certainly open to judicial review.‖
252\. The principles stated above have also been reproduced in para 124 of the
Rameshwar Prasad case (supra).
253\. On the issue of permissibility of judicial review, the Supreme Court has
further stated as follows:
―325. Judicial review of administrative and statutory W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page
148 of 531 action is perhaps the most important development in the field of
public law in the second half of this century. In India, the principles
governing this jurisdiction are exclusively Judge-made. ...
xxx xxx xxx
373\. Whenever a Proclamation under Article 356 is questioned, the court will
no doubt start with the presumption that it was validly issued but it will not
and it should not hesitate to interfere if the invalidity or
unconstitutionality of the proclamation is clearly made out. Refusal to
interfere in such a case would amount to abdication of the duty cast upon the
court -
Supreme Court and High Courts - by the Constitution. Now, what are the grounds
upon which the court can interfere and strike down the Proclamation? ...
... Here the President acts on the aid and advice of the Union Council of
Ministers and not in his personal capacity. Moreover, there is the check of
approval by Parliament which contains members from that State (against the
Government/Legislative Assembly of which State, action is taken) as well. So
far as the approach adopted by this Court in Barium Chemicals is concerned, it
is a decision concerning subjective satisfaction of an authority created by a
statute. The principles evolved then cannot ipso facto be extended to the
exercise of a constitutional power under Article 356. Having regard to the
fact that this is a high constitutional power exercised by the highest
constitutional functionary of the Nation, it may not be appropriate to adopt
the tests applicable in the case of action taken by statutory or
administrative authorities - nor at any rate, in their entirety. We would
rather adopt the formulation evolved by this Court in State of
W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 149 of 531 Rajasthan, as we shall presently
elaborate. We also recognise, as did the House of Lords in CCSU. v. Minister
for the Civil Service, (1985) AC 374 that there are certain areas including
those elaborated therein where the court would leave the matter almost
entirely to the President/Union Government. The court would desist from
entering those arenas, because of the very nature of those functions. They are
not the matters which the court is equipped to deal with. The court has never
interfered in those matters because they do not admit of judicial review by
their very nature. Matters concerning foreign policy, relations with other
countries, defence policy, power to enter into treaties with foreign powers,
issues relating to war and peace are some of the matters where the court would
decline to entertain any petition for judicial review. But the same cannot be
said of the power under Article 356. It is another matter that in a given case
the court may not interfere. It is necessary to affirm that the Proclamation
under Article 356(1) is not immune from judicial review, though the parameters
thereof may vary from an ordinary case of subjective satisfaction.
xxx xxx xxx
434\. We may summarise our conclusion now:
(1) Article 356 of the Constitution confers a power upon the President to be
exercised only where he is satisfied that a situation has arisen where the
Government of a State cannot be carried on in accordance with the provisions
of the Constitution. Under our Constitution, the power is really that of the
Union Council of Ministers with the Prime Minister at its head. The
satisfaction contemplated by the article is subjective in nature.
           (2)     The power conferred by Article 356 upon the
    W.P.(C)No.4770/2012                                     page 150 of 531
President is a conditioned power. It is not an absolute power. The existence
of material - which may comprise of or include the report (s) of the Governor
- is a precondition. The satisfaction must be formed on relevant material. The
recommendations of the Sarkaria Commission with respect to the exercise of
power under Article 356 do merit serious consideration at the hands of all
concerned.
           xxx                 xxx                   xxx
                              (Emphasis by us)
254\. The Supreme Court has therefore held that Presidential satisfaction is
amenable to judicial review within narrow parameters considered in judicial
precedents. Though the above principles and conclusions summarise the position
in respect of the Presidential satisfaction and proclamation under Article
356, the same would guide adjudication of a challenge to the Presidential
consideration and assent under Article 239AA as well.
Whether Presidential „consideration‟ and „assent‟ are exercise of legislative
power?
255\. We may now examine the authoritative pronouncement of the Supreme Court
reported at (2002) 8 SCC 182, Kaiser-i-Hind Pvt. Ltd. v. National Textile
Corporation (Maharashtra North) Ltd. &Ors. This judgment was rendered in the
context of Article 254 of the Constitution and concerned with Presidential
consideration and assent in the context of Parliamentary legislation and State
law. In this case, the Bombay Rent Act, 1947 was W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 151
of 531 enacted by the Bombay Legislature and received the assent of the
Governor-General on 13th January, 1948. It was a temporary law and was to
remain in force up to 31st March, 1950. Subsequently, it was extended by
various extension laws passed by the State Legislature. Assent of the
President was obtained to each of the State Acts which were passed after the
coming into force of the Constitution, either to extend the duration of the
Bombay Rent Act, 1947 or to extend its application with amendments to the
State.
256\. The provisions of the Bombay Rent Act were repugnant to the provisions
of Public Premises (Eviction of Unauthorised Occupants) Act, 1971, a Central
Act. The letters of the State addressed to the Government of India containing
the proposals for obtaining the assent of the President pointed out the
repugnancy between the State law and Central laws such as the Transfer of
Property Act, 1882 and the Presidency Small Cause Courts Act, 1882\. However
there was no specific mention of the repugnancy between the Bombay Rent Act
1947 and the Central Act under consideration, i.e. the Public Premises
(Eviction of Unauthorised Occupants) Act, 1971. The subject matter of the
Central and State Legislation is covered by entries in the Concurrent List of
the Seventh Schedule of the Constitution.
257\. The appellant in this case challenged the decision of the Bombay High
Court whereby it upheld the constitutionality of the Public Premises (Eviction
of Unauthorised Occupants) Act, 1971 and rejected the appellant's contention
that having regard to Article W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 152 of 531 254(2), the
provisions of the Bombay Rent Act would prevail over those of the Public
Premises (Eviction of Unauthorised Occupants) Act, 1971.
258\. To understand the relevance of this judgment for the present
consideration, we are setting out hereafter, the two relevant issues which
arose before the Supreme Court, out of the summary in para 5 of the judgment:
> ―5. xxx 3(a) Whether the provisions of the Bombay Rent Act, 1947 having been
> re-enacted after 1971 by the State Legislation with the assent of the
> President must prevail in the State of Maharashtra over the provisions of
> the PP Eviction Act by virtue of Article 254(2) of the Constitution?
> 4\. Whether it is permissible for a court of law to enquire into and
> ascertain the circumstances in which assent to a law under Article 254(2)
> was given and hold as a result of such consideration that the State law even
> with respect to a matter enumerated in the Concurrent List (after having
> been reserved for the consideration of the President and after having
> received his assent) does not prevail in that State?‖
259\. The adjudication on these issues is not relevant. But it is manifest
from the above that these very issues arise in the present case before us.
260\. Before considering the question of permissibility of judicial review, a
pertinent question which needs to be answered is whether W.P.(C)No.4770/2012
page 153 of 531 Presidential consideration and assent are exercise of
legislative power? The following observations of the court in Kaiser-i-Hind
(supra) authoritatively decide this:
> ―77. The assent of the President or the Governor, as the case may be, is
> considered to be part of the legislative process only for the limited
> purpose that the legislative process is incomplete without them for enacting
> a law and in the absence of the assent the Bill passed could not be
> considered to be an Act or a piece of legislation, effective and enforceable
> and not to extend the immunity in respect of procedural formalities to be
> observed inside the respective Houses and certification by the presiding
> officer concerned of their due compliance, to areas or acts outside and
> besides those formalities ...‖.
261\. It is therefore also well settled that consideration and grant of assent
by the President is not exercise of legislative power. It merely forms part of
the legislative procedure.
262\. In Kaiser-i-Hind (supra), the court referred upon the judgment reported
at (1983) 4 SCC 45, M/s Hoechst Pharmaceutical Limited & Ors. v. State of
Bihar & Ors. and (1986) 4 SCC 51, Bharat Sevashram Sangh v. State of Gujarat
and concluded that the court could ascertain whether assent was qua repugnancy
between State legislation and earlier law. It has been clarified that such
scrutiny does not tantamount to the court adjudicating upon the correctness of
the Presidential assent. The observations of the Supreme Court deserve to be
considered in W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 154 of 531 extenso and read as follows:
> ―23. The learned Senior Counsel Mr.Nariman next submitted that the assent
> given by the President is not justiciable and placed reliance on decision of
> this Court in Bharat Sevashram Sangh v. State of Gujarat [1986] 4 SCC 51,
> wherein this Court observed thus:
> "...it cannot be said that the assent which was given by the President was
> conditional. The records relating to the above proceedings were also made
> available to the court. On going through the material placed before us we
> are satisfied that the President had given assent to the Act and it is not
> correct to say that it was a qualified assent...."
> 24\. In the aforesaid decision also the records relating to assent were made
> available to the Court and on going through the material placed before it,
> the Court was satisfied that the President had given assent to the Act and
> it was incorrect to say that it was qualified assent. In HOECHST
> Pharmaceuticals Ltd. v. State of Bihar (1983) 4 SCC 45, this Court held
> thus:-
> "84. ...That being so, the decision in Teh Cheng Poh v. Public Prosecutor,
> Malaysia 1980 AC 458 is not an authority for the proposition that the assent
> of the President is justiciable nor can it be spelled out that the court can
> enquire into the reasons why the Bill was reserved by the Governor under
> Article 200 for the assent of the President nor whether the President
> applied his mind to the question whether there was repugnancy between the
> Bill reserved for his consideration and received his assent under Article
> 254(2)."
> W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 155 of 531 The Court further observed:-
> "...We have no hesitation in holding that the assent of the President is not
> justiciable, and we cannot spell out any infirmity arising out of his
> decision to give such assent."
> (Emphasis by us)
> 25\. In our view, for finding out whether the assent was given qua the
> repugnancy between the State legislation and the earlier law made by the
> Parliament, there is no question of deciding validity of such assent nor the
> assent is subjected to any judicial review. That is to say, merely looking
> at the record, for which assent was sought, would not mean that the Court is
> deciding whether the assent is rightly, wrongly or erroneously granted. The
> consideration by the Court is limited to the extent that whether the State
> has sought assent qua particular earlier law or laws made by the Parliament
> prevailing in the State or it has sought general assent. In such case, the
> Court is not required to decide the validity of the 'assent' granted by the
> President.‖ (Emphasis by us)
263\. The Hoechst case relied upon by the respondents is a landmark judgment
on repugnancy. However, in the present case, we have set down the respondents'
noting dated 11th June, 2012 pointing out that the proposed legislation was
repugnant to the Central legislation, and hence reserved for the assent of the
President. We have also noticed the deposition in the counter affidavit filed
by the respondents to the same effect. Given the above admissions by the
respondents, the question whether the impugned legislation was repugnant to a
Central enactment or not, W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 156 of 531 is not an issue
in the present matter. Therefore the prohibition laid in Hoechst (supra) would
have no application to the present case. As noted above, Kaiser-i-Hind (supra)
has also referred to Hoechst (supra).
264\. So far, this scrutiny by the court in exercise of its power of judicial
review is concerned, it stands further clarified by the Supreme Court that it
is in the nature of examination of whether the legislative procedure has been
followed or not. In this regard in para 29 of Kaiser-i-Hind, the court
observed as follows:
> ―29. We further make it clear that granting of assent under Article 254(2)
> is not exercise of legislative power of President such as contemplated under
> Article 123 but is part of legislative procedure. Whether procedure
> prescribed by the Constitution before enacting the law is followed or not
> can always be looked into by the Court.‖
265\. The Supreme Court made a valuable observation as to how such challenge
could be avoided and observed thus:
> ―30. Finally, we would observe that the challenge of this nature could be
> avoided if at the commencement of the Act, it is stated that the Act has
> received the assent with regard to the repugnancy between the State Law and
> specified Central law or laws.‖ (Emphasis by us)
266\. It is therefore wholly unnecessary for us to expand any further on the
above objection of the respondents to the W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 157 of 531
maintainability of the present challenge. It has to be held that while
examining a challenge to the constitutionality of legislation, judicial review
of whether legislative procedure, which includes Presidential consideration
and assent, was followed or not is permissible. The objection is overruled. We
also make it clear that we shall confine our consideration to the parameters
for judicial review settled in the above pronouncements.
Respondent‟s objection to production of records
267\. The respondents have vehemently opposed placing their records before us
on the ground that this court is legally prohibited from examining the records
of the Govt. of NCT of Delhi on the ground that they relate to records of the
Delhi Legislative Assembly as well as Presidential consideration and assent to
a proposed legislation.
268\. The objection of the respondents to production before court of the
material placed for Presidential consideration is premised on the shield
provided by Article 74(2) of the Constitution.
Article 74 of the Constitution of India reads as follows:
> ―Article 74 - Council of Ministers to aid and advise President [(1) There
> shall be a Council of Ministers with the Prime Minister at the head to aid
> and advise the President who shall, in the exercise of his functions, act in
> accordance with such advice:] W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 158 of 531 [Provided
> that the President may require the Council of Ministers to reconsider such
> advice; either generally or otherwise, and the President shall act in
> accordance with the advice tendered after such reconsideration.] (2) The
> question whether any, and if so what, advice was tendered by Ministers to
> the President shall not be inquired into in any court.‖
269\. Article 74 is concerned with aid and advice tendered by the Council of
Ministers to the President. As per clause (1) of Article 74, in exercise of
his functions, the President shall act in accordance with such advice. Under
Article 74(2), the question whether any, and if so, what advice was tendered
by Ministers to the President shall not be inquired into in any court.
270\. Based on this constitutional provision, objection to production of
records has been taken by the State in several cases and stands rejected by
the Supreme Court. The court has also considered claims of privilege under
Section 123 of the Evidence Act and laid down the parameters thereof. We
notice the major judicial precedents in this regard and extract the relevant
portions hereafter.
271\. In (1994) 3 SCC 1 S.R. Bommai v. UOI, the Union of India had urged that
judicial review and enquiring of the reasons which led to the issuance of the
Presidential proclamation under Article 356 issued on the advice of the
Council of Ministers stands barred W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 159 of 531 by
virtue of clause (2) of Article 74. This objection of the respondents also
stands authoritatively examined and rejected by the Supreme Court in this
pronouncement. On this objection, the discussion and the findings of the court
read as follows:
> ―83....This contention is fallacious for reasons more than one. In the first
> instance, it is based on a misconception of the purpose of Article 74[2]. As
> has been rightly pointed out by Shri Shanti Bhushan, the object of Article
> 74[2] was not to exclude any material or documents from the scrutiny of the
> Courts but to provide that an order issued by or in the name of the
> President could not be questioned on the ground that it was either contrary
> to the advice tendered by the Ministers or was issued without obtaining any
> advice from the Ministers. Its object was only to make the question whether
> the President had followed the advice of the Ministers or acted contrary
> thereto, non-justiciable. What advice, if any, was tendered by the Ministers
> to the President was thus to be beyond the scrutiny of the Court.
> xxx xxx xxx
> 86\. What is further, although Article 74[2] bars judicial review so far as
> the advice given by the Ministers is concerned, it does not bar scrutiny of
> the material on the basis of which the advice is given. The Courts are not
> interested in either the advice given by the Ministers to the President or
> the reasons for such advice. The Courts are, however, justified in probing
> as to whether there was any material on the basis of which the advice was
> given, and whether it was relevant for such advice and the President could
> have acted on it. Hence when the Courts undertake an enquiry into the
> existence of such material, the prohibition W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 160 of
> 531 contained in Article 74[2] does not negate their right to know about the
> factual existence of any such material...‖
272\. So far as the plea of privilege under Section 123 of the Evidence Act is
concerned, the Union Government had urged this plea as well in S.R. Bommai
(supra) which was considered by the Supreme Court thus:
> ―86. ...This is not to say that the Union Government cannot raise the plea
> of privilege under Section 123 of the Evidence Act. As and when such
> privilege against disclosure is claimed, the Courts will examine such claim
> within the parameters of the said section on its merits.‖
273\. The Supreme Court in S.R. Bommai (supra) while rejecting the plea
against secrecy, has further noted that the Proclamation under Article 356 has
to be discussed and approved on the floor of both Houses of Parliament,
members of which are entitled to go through the material which was the basis
of the advice of the Council of Ministers:
> ―87. Since further the Proclamation issued under Article 356(1) is required
> by Clause (3) of that Article to be laid before each House of Parliament and
> ceases to operate on the expiration of two months unless it has been
> approved by resolutions by both the Houses of Parliament before the
> expiration of that period, it is evident that the question as to whether a
> Proclamation W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 161 of 531 should or should not have
> been made, has to be discussed on the floor of each House and the two Houses
> would be entitled to go into the material on the basis of which the Council
> of Ministers had tendered the advice to the President for issuance of the
> Proclamation Hence the secrecy claimed in respect of the material inquestion
> cannot remain inviolable, and the plea of non-disclosure of the material can
> hardly be pressed...‖
274\. After an elaborate discussion, the Supreme Court summed up its
conclusions in S.R. Bommai (supra) in Para 434, the relevant extract whereof
reads as follows:-
> ―434. (1) to (5) xxx xxx xxx (6) Article 74(2) merely bars an enquiry into
> the question whether any, and if so, what advice was tendered by the
> ministers to the President. It does not bar the court from calling upon the
> Union Council of Ministers (Union of India) to disclose to the Court the
> material upon which the President had formed the requisite satisfaction. The
> material on the basis of which advice was tendered does not become part of
> the advice. Even if the material is looked into by or shown to the
> President, it does not partake the character of advice. Article 74(2) and
> Section 123 of the Evidence Act cover different fields. It may happen that
> while defending the Proclamation, the Minister or the official concerned may
> claim the privilege under Section 123. If and when such privilege is
> claimed, it will be decided on its own merits in accordance with the
> provisions of Section 123.
(7) The Proclamation under Article 356(1) is not W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 162
of 531 immune from judicial review. The Supreme Court or the High Court can
strike down the Proclamation if it is found to be mala fide or based on wholly
irrelevant or extraneousgrounds. The deletion of Clause (5) [which was
introduced by 38th (Amendment) Act] by the 44th (Amendment) Act, removes the
cloud on the reviewability of the action. When called upon, the Union of India
has to produce the material on the basis of which action was taken. It cannot
refuse to do so, if it seeks to defend the action. The court will not go into
the correctness of the material or its adequacy. Its enquiry is limited to see
whether the material was relevant to the action. Even if part of the material
is irrelevant, the court cannot interfere so long as there is some material
which is relevant to the action taken.......‖
275\. In 2002 (8) SCC 182, Kaiser-I-Hind Pvt. Ltd. v. National Textile
Corporation (Maharashtra North) Ltd. &Ors., the Supreme Court has also
considered the objection on behalf of the appellant to the effect that when
the President has given assent to a State legislation, the court cannot call
for files to find out whether the assent was limited to repugnancy between the
State legislations and laws mentioned therein. Even though this contention was
rejected by the Supreme Court, the same objection has been unfortunately taken
by the respondents before us. The observations of the court on this issue are
important and also set down the boundaries of judicial review into the subject
matter of the Presidential assent. The court held as follows:-
W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 163 of 531 ―20. It is true that President's assent as
notified in the Act nowhere mentions that assent was obtained qua repugnancy
between the State legislation and specified certain law or laws of the
Parliament. But from this, it also cannot be inferred that as the President
has given assent, all earlier law/ laws on the subject would not prevail in
the State. As discussed above before grant of the assent, consideration of the
reasons for having such law is necessary and the consideration would mean
consideration of the proposal made by the State for the law enacted despite it
being repugnant to the earlier law made by the Parliament on the same subject.
If the proposal made by the State is limited qua the repugnancy of the State
law and law or laws specified in the said proposal, then it cannot be said
that the assent was granted qua the repugnancy between the State law and other
laws for which no assent was sought for. Take for illustration -- that a
particular provision namely, section 3 of the State law is repugnant to
enactment A made by Parliament; other provision, namely, Section 4 is
repugnant to some provisions of enactment B made by Parliament and Sections 5
and 6 are repugnant to some provisions of enactment C and the State submits
proposal seeking ―assent‖ mentioning repugnancy between the State law and
provisions of enactments A and B without mentioning anything with regard to
enactment C. In this set of circumstances, if the assent of the President is
obtained, the State law with regard to enactments A and B would prevail but
with regard to C there is no proposal and hence there is no ―consideration‖ or
―assent‖. Proposal by the State pointing out repugnancy between the State law
and of the law enacted by the Parliament is sine qua non for "consideration"
and "assent". If there is no proposal, no question of "consideration" or
"assent" arises. For finding out whether "assent"
W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 164 of 531 given by the President is restricted or
unrestricted, the letter written or the proposal made by the State Government
for obtaining "assent" is required to be looked into.‖ (Emphasis by us)
276\. In Kaiser-i-Hind (supra), the court makes a reference to the
correspondence of the State Govt. for obtaining assent as well as records
relating to the issue and further ruled thus:
> ―21. We would also make it clear that in all the decisions relied upon,
> wherein such question was raised,this Court has referred to the
> correspondence made by the State Government for obtaining the assent of the
> President to find out whether the assent was with regard to repugnancy
> between the State Legislature and particular enactment of the Parliament.
> For this purpose, we would straightaway refer to the decision in Gram
> Panchayat'scase (supra), wherein the Court considered the alleged repugnancy
> between the Administration of Evacuee Property Act of 1950 and the Punjab
> Village Common Lands (Regulation) Act of 1953........
> .....In that case also the High Court of Punjab had adjourned the matter to
> enable the State Government to place material before the Court showing the
> purpose for which the Punjab Act of 1953 was forwarded to the President for
> his assent. As per the record of that case, the Act was not reserved for the
> assent of the President on the ground that it was repugnant to the earlier
> Act passed by the Parliament, namely, Central Act of 1950. The Court
> thereafter pertinently held thus:-
> W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 165 of 531 "The record shows, and it was not
> disputed either before us or in the High Court, that the Act was not
> reserved for the assent of the President on the ground that it was repugnant
> to an earlier Act passed by the Parliament, namely, the Central Act of 1950.
> In these circumstance, we agree with the High Court of the Punjab Act of
> 1953 cannot be said to have been reserved for the assent of the President
> within the meaning of Clause (2) of Article 254 of the Constitution in so
> far as its repugnancy with the Central Act of 1950 is concerned...‖
277\. On the objection to the examination of the records in the judgment
reported at (2002) 8 SCC 182 Kaiser-i-Hind (P) Ltd. v. National Textile
Corporation (Maharashtra North) Ltd. the Supreme Court observed thus:
> ―28. In this view of the matter, it cannot be said that the High Court
> committed any error in looking at the file of the correspondence Ex.F
> collectively for finding out - for what purpose ―assent‖ of the President to
> the extension of Acts extending the duration of Bombay Rent Act was sought
> for and given. After looking at the said file, the Court considered relevant
> portion of the letter, which referred to the Bill passed by the Maharashtra
> Legislative Council and the Maharashtra Legislative Assembly extending the
> duration of the Bombay Rent Act for 5 years from 1st April, 1986.
> xxx xxx xxx A telegraphic message dated 25th February, 1986 sent by the
> Special Commissioner, New Delhi, addressed to two Secretaries of the State
> of Maharashtra and the Secretary to the Governor of the State of Maharashtra
> W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 166 of 531 shows that the President accorded his
> assent to this Bill on 23rd February, 1986. Thereafter, the Court rightly
> relied upon the decision in Gram Panchayat case (supra) for arriving at the
> conclusion that the assent of the President was sought to the Extension Acts
> for the purpose of overcoming its repugnancy between the Bombay Rent Act on
> the one hand and the Transfer of Property Act and the President Small Cause
> Courts Act on the other. The efficacy of the President's assent was limited
> to that purpose only. Therefore, the PP Eviction Act would prevail and not
> the Bombay Rent Act.‖
278\. In S.R. Bommai (supra), the Supreme Court also observed that the limited
aspect covered under Article 74(2) cannot override the basic provisions in the
Constitution relating to the exercise of judicial review by the court in the
following terms:-
> ―321. Clause (2) of Article 74, understood in its proper perspective, is
> thus confined to a limited aspect. It protects and preserves the secrecy of
> the deliberations between the President and his Council of Ministers. In
> fact, Clause (2) is a reproduction of Sub-section (4) of Section 10 of the
> Government of India Act, 1935. [The Government of India Act did not contain
> a provision corresponding to Article 74(1) as it stood before or after the
> Amendments aforementioned]. The scope of Clause (2) should not be extended
> beyond its legitimate field.
In any event, it cannot be read or understood as conferring an immunity upon
the Council of Ministers or the Minister/Ministry concerned to explain, defend
and justify the orders and acts of the President done in exercise of his
function. The limited provision contained in Article 74(2) cannot
W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 167 of 531 override the basic provisions in the
Constitution relating to judicial review. If and when any action taken by the
President in exercise of his functions is questioned in a Court of Law, it is
for the Council of Ministers to justify the same, since the action or order of
the President is presumed to have been taken in accordance with Article 74(1).
As to which Minister or which official of which Ministry comes forward to
defend the order/action is for them to decide and for the Court to be
satisfied about it. ...‖ (Emphasis by us)
279\. On the objection to examination of the records of the respondents and
material placed before the President, in S.R. Bommai (supra), the court
further held thus:
―323. Evidence Act is a pre-Constitution enactment.
Section 123 enacts a rule of English Common Law that no one shall be permitted
to give evidence derived from unpublished official records relating to affairs
of State except with the permission of the concerned head of the department.
It does not prevent the head of department permitting it or the head of the
department himself giving evidence on that basis. The law relating to Section
123 has been elaborately discussed in several decisions of this Court and is
not in issue herein. Our only object has been to emphasise that Article 74(2)
and Section 123 cover different and distinct areas. It may happen that while
justifying and Government's action in Court, the Minister or the official
concerned may claim a privilege under Section 123. If and when such privilege
is claimed, it will be decided on its own merits in accordance with the
provisions of that Section. But, Article 74(2) does not and cannot mean that
the Government of India need not W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 168 of 531 justify
the action taken by the President in the exercise of his functions because of
the provision contained therein. No such immunity was intended
\- or is provided - by the clause. If the act or order of the President is
questioned in a Court of Law, it is for the Council of Ministers to justify it
by disclosing the material which formed the basis of the act/order. The Court
will not ask whether such material formed part of the advice tendered to the
President or whether that material was placed before the President. The Court
will not also ask what advice was tendered to the President, what
deliberations or discussions took place between the President and his
Ministers and how was the ultimate decision arrived at.The Court will only see
what was the material on the basis of which the requisite satisfaction is
formed and whether it is relevant to the action under Article 356(1). The
court will not go into the correctness of the material or its adequacy. Even
if the court were to come to a different conclusion on the said material, it
would not interfere since the Article speaks of satisfaction of the President
and not that of the court.
324\. In our respectful opinion, the above obligation cannot be evaded by
seeking refuge under Article 74(2). The argument that the advice tendered to
the President comprises material as well and , therefore, calling upon the
Union of India to disclose the material would amount to compelling the
disclosure of the advice is, if we can say so respectfully, to indulge in
sophistry. The material placed before the President by the Minister/Council of
Ministers does not thereby become part of advice. Advice is what is based upon
the said material. Material is not advice. The material may be placed before
the President to acquaint him - and if W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 169 of 531
need be to satisfy him - that the advice being tendered to him is the proper
one. But it cannot mean that such material, by dint of being placed before the
President in support of the advice, becomes advice itself. One can understand
if the advice is tendered in writing; in such a case that writing is the
advice and is covered by the protection provided by Article74(2). But it is
difficult to appreciate how does the supporting material becomes part of
advice. The respondents cannot say that whatever the President sees - or
whatever is placed before the President becomes prohibited material and cannot
be seen or summoned by the court. Article 74(2) must be interpreted and
understood in the context of entire constitutional system. Undue emphasis and
expansion of its parameters would engulf valuable constitutional guarantees.
For these reasons, we find it difficult to agree with the reasoning in State
of Rajasthan on this score, insofar as it runs contrary to our holding.‖
(Emphasis supplied)
280\. In the judgment reported at (1985) 3 SCC 661, Gram Panchayat of Village
Jamalpur v. Malwinder Singh the point under consideration was whether there
was any repugnancy between the administration of Evacuee Property Act, 1950
and the Punjab Village Common Lands (Regulation) Act, 1953. The court
concluded that there was a direct conflict between the two Acts and hence
there arose an issue as to the applicability of Article 254. The Supreme Court
noted the exercise undertaken by the High Court to examine the records and
approved the findings with the following observations:
W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 170 of 531 ―12. ...Since the Punjab Act of 1953
extinguished all private interests in Shamlat-deh lands and vested those lands
in the Village Panchayats and since, the Act was a measure of agrarian reform
it was reserved for the consideration of the President. The judgment of the
High Court shows that the hearing of the writ petitions was adjourned to
enable the State Government to place material before the Court showing the
purpose for which the Punjab Act of 1953 was forwarded to the President for
his assent. The record shows and it was not disputed either before us or in
the High Court, that the Act was not reserved for the assent of the President
on the ground that it was repugnant to an earlier Act passed by the
Parliament, namely, the Central Act of 1950. In these circumstances we agree
with the High Court that the Punjab Act of 1953 cannot be said to have been
reserved for the assent of the President within the meaning of clause (2) of
Article 254 of the Constitution insofar as its repugnancy with the Central Act
of 1950 is concerned. ...‖ (Emphasis by us)
281\. Another aspect necessitating a scrutiny of the material which had been
considered by the Government before effecting the amendment to an enactment is
manifested in the judgment reported at (1995) 1 SCC 104, D.C. Bhatia v. Union
of India. In this case, the Supreme Court examined the material mentioned in
the Statement of Objects and Reasons on which the statutory amendment under
challenge was based. The following observations of the court are noteworthy:
―13. In the Statement of Objects and Reasons, the W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 171
of 531 purpose of the amendment by the Delhi Rent Control (Amendment) Act,
1988 was stated as under:
> ―The Delhi Rent Control Act, 1958 (59 of 1958) which came into effect on 9th
> February, 1959, provides for control of rents and lodging houses and for the
> lease of vacant premises to the Government within the Union Territory of
> Delhi.‖
2\. For quite sometime, there have been demands from the associations of
house-owners as well as tenants for amendment of Delhi Rent Control Act, 1958.
The Committee on Petitions of RajyaSabha, the Economic, Administration Reforms
Commission, Secretaries Committee and National Commission on Urbanisation have
also recommended amendment of certain provisions of the Act. Considering these
demands/recommendations as also the fact that with the passage of time, the
circumstances have also changed, necessitating a fresh look at the tenant-
landlord relationship, the amendment of Delhi Rent Control Act, 1958 has been
proposed ...
3\. The Bill seeks to achieve the above objects.‖
282\. In the summarisation in para 434(7) in (1994) 3 SCC 1, S.R. Bommai v.
Union of India (supra) while laying the scope of enquiry by the court on the
aspect of production of the material by the Union of India, the court had
observed as follows:-
> ―... When called upon, the Union of India has to produce the material on the
> basis of which action was taken. It cannot refuse to do so, if it seeks to
> defend the action. The court will not go into the correctness of the
> material or its adequacy. Its enquiry is limited to see whether the material
> was relevant to the action. Even if part of the material is irrelevant, the
> court cannot interfere so long as W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 172 of 531 there
> is some material which is relevant to the action taken. ...‖
283\. The objection by the respondents to both the production of their records
and its examination by the court premised on the prohibition in Article 74 has
to be rejected outright. We may note that the respondents before us did not
claim privilege under Section 123 of the Indian Evidence Act before us.
284\. The submission of the respondents that this court is precluded from
examining the records of Presidential assent as well as the records of Govt.
of NCT of Delhi has therefore, neither factual nor legal basis and stands
considered and authoritatively rejected in several binding judicial precedents
by the Supreme Court. In all these cases, the court has closely examined
official records, especially the proposal placed for Presidential
consideration and the material in support, both before the Parliament as well
as the President.
285\. There is no prohibition in law for this court to examine the records as
well as the material which was placed before the Legislative Assembly of Delhi
or the President for consideration before obtaining assent in order to
ascertain the nature and scope of the proposal which was placed before the
President as well as the relevancy of the material. Such examination is also
necessary to arrive at a conclusion as to whether the procedure
constitutionally prescribed has been followed or not.
W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 173 of 531
286\. While it is settled law therefore that the act of granting Presidential
assent cannot itself be reviewed by the courts, the Supreme Court has held
that courts may review the records that the President considered in giving
assent in order to establish the purview of said assent.
287\. Such examination is mandated by law and also essential to rule on the
primary question to see whether relevant material formed the basis of the
Presidential proclamation (or assent, as the case may be) as well as ascertain
whether the assent was with regard to repugnancy of the proposed State
legislation and a particular enactment of the Parliament or whether the assent
had been sought and granted generally.
288\. It is therefore trite that this court has the jurisdiction to call for
records of the respondents to examine the proposal placed by the respondents
as well as the material placed for consideration of the President.
289\. The principles laid down in these pronouncements would be known to the
respondents who are required to stand guided by legal experts in their
decision making and actions. This court is required to examine compliance with
these principles by the respondents.
Burden of establishing existence of material and compliance with the pre-
conditions
290\. We may also examine the question as to on whom rests the burden of
establishing the existence of material to satisfy the pre-
W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 174 of 531 conditions and a meaningful consideration
before the Presidential assent under Article 239AA. We may draw support on
this aspect from some other constitutional provisions conferring power on the
President to issue proclamations upon ‗advice' of and ‗satisfaction' as
Article 356 of the Constitution. The Supreme Court considered the important
aspect of the burden of proving the existence of relevant material in para 87
in (1994) 3 SCC 1, S.R. Bommai v. Union of India and held thus:
> ―...When the Proclamation is challenged by making out a prima facie case
> with regard to its invalidity, the burden would be on the Union Government
> to satisfy that there exists material which showed that the Government could
> not be carried on in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution.
> Since such material would be exclusively within the knowledge of the Union
> Government, in view of the provisions of Section 106 of the Evidence Act,
> the burden of proving the existence of such material would be on the Union
> Government.‖ (Emphasis supplied)
291\. On the same issue of the burden of proving existence of relevant
material the following extract from the summarization by the Supreme Court in
S.R. Bommai (supra) is very important:
> ―SUMMARY OF CONCLUSION:
> 153 Our conclusions, therefore, may be summarised as under:
I. The validity of the Proclamation issued by the President under Article
356(1) is judicially W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 175 of 531 reviewable to the
extent of examining whether it was issued on the basis of any material at all
or whether the material was relevant or whether the Proclamation was issued in
the mala fide exercise of the power. When a prima facie case is made out in
the challenge to the Proclamation, the burden is on the Union Government to
prove that the relevant material did in fact exist. Such material may be
either the report of the Governor or other than the report.
II. Article 74(2) is not a bar against the scrutiny of the material on the
basis of which the President had arrived at his satisfaction.‖ (Emphasis by
us)
292\. It needs no elaboration that the burden to show that material existed
and was relevant, that there was due application of mind by the competent
authorities and also that such records were placed before for Presidential
consideration, all lies on the respondent.
293\. The respondents have contended that the pronouncement in S.R. Bommai
case (supra) related to an executive act and that the petitioners' reliance
thereon overlooks the vital distinction between an executive act and a
legislative act. The respondents conceived that the judicial review of
executive action can be premised on the ground that it is vitiated by non-
application of mind by the maker which is established by showing that there
was no material based on which the decision maker arrived at his/her
satisfaction. Mr. Harish Salve, learned Senior Counsel for the respondents
contended that a legislative measure on the other hand cannot be questioned on
any grounds of judicial review available to challenge W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page
176 of 531 execution action. It is further submitted that the executive has no
right to speak for the law makers therefore it necessarily follows that the
question as to whether or not there was any material before the executive
which proposed the law to the law makers, is entirely irrelevant to the
question of validity of a statute.
294\. These submissions unfortunately are premised on a complete
misunderstanding of the petitioners' submissions before us. The reliance on
S.R. Bommai case (supra) is not for the purposes of supporting the challenge
to a legislative act. The petitioners have placed a pronouncement in S.R.
Bommai case (supra) before us in order to explain the meaning of the
expression ‗satisfaction' and the manner in which constitutional expressions
have to be interpreted and construed. Furthermore, no objection has been
addressed before us with regard to non-application of mind by the Legislative
Assembly of Delhi. Inasmuch as the foregoing discussion amply sets out the
submissions of the petitioners and our discussion thereon, it is unnecessary
to dwell further on these objections of the respondents.
„Consideration‟ and „assent‟- how accorded
295\. It is now necessary to understand the scope and spurt of the expressions
‗consideration' and ‗assent'. The phrase ‗consideration' in Article 254 has
been the subject matter of judicial pronouncements in AIR 1955 Bombay 35,
Basantlal Banarsilal v. Bansilal Dagdulal and (1985) 3 SCC 661, Gram Panchayat
of Village Jamalpur v. Malwinder Singh.
W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 177 of 531
296\. In AIR 1955 Bombay 35, Basantlal Banarsilal v. Bansilal Dagdulal, it was
held thus:-
> ―3. ...Therefore, in the hierarchy of legislation in India a higher place
> was naturally accorded to laws passed by Parliament, and the Constitution
> enacts that if a law is passed both by the Legislature of a State and by
> Parliament with regard to the same subject matter, then if there is any
> repugnancy between the provisions of the two laws, the law of Parliament
> shall prevail. This is subject to cl.(2) which is the important provision
> and that provides:
> xxx xxx xxx Therefore, if the State Legislature passes a law subsequent to
> the law passed by Parliament and the State Legislature wants in any way to
> depart from the provisions of the law as laid down by Parliament, it could
> do so provided it satisfies the condition, viz., that it reserves the bill
> for the consideration of the President and the President gives his assent.
> The principle underlying this clause is clear, viz., that the President
> should apply his mind to what Parliament has enacted and also consider the
> local conditions prevailing in a particular State, and if he is satisfied
> that judging by the local conditions a particular State should be permitted
> to make a provision of law different from the provision made by Parliament,
> he should give his assent and thereupon the State legislation would prevail.
> There is a proviso to this cl. (2) and that is:
> "Provided that nothing in this clause shall prevent Parliament from enacting
> at any time any law with respect to the same matter including a law adding
> to, amending, varying W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 178 of 531 or repealing the
> law so made by the Legislature of the State."
> This again emphasises the omnipotence of Parliament. Even though the State
> law may contain a provision assented to by the President and may have
> contained a provision of law different from the provision contained in the
> Parliamentary statute, it is open to Parliament to legislate again with
> regard to the same matter.
> xxx xxx xxx The departure made under the Constitution is that wider power is
> conferred upon Parliament directly to tackle State legislation and to amend,
> vary or repeal State legislation. But it is impossible to contend that the
> additional words contained in the proviso in any way restrict the competence
> of Parliament. Whether under the Constitution or under the Government of
> India Act, the Central Legislature or Parliament had always the power to
> override any legislation passed by a Provincial or State Legislature
> provided the subject it dealt with found a place in the Concurrent List, and
> that important principle is reiterated in Article 254 and the proviso to cl.
> (2) merely emphasises that important principle.‖ (Emphasis by us)
297\. On this aspect, reference may usefully be made to the judgment of the
Constitution Bench of the Supreme Court in (1985) 3 SCC 661, Gram Panchayat of
Village Jamalpur v. Malwinder Singh. The case arose in the context of direct
conflict between Section 8(2) of the Central Act of 1950 and Section 3 of the
Punjab Act of 1953 on the question of vesting of evacuee property, the issue
considered was as to which of these two Acts W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 179 of
531 would prevail. It was held that the question has to be answered in the
light of the provisions of the Constitution. The court construed the
requirements, contours and the nuances of the expression ―reserved for
consideration‖ which have been used in Article 254(2) of the Constitution. The
Supreme Court also considered the purpose of an enactment being reserved for
Presidential assent and the examination by the High Court of the material
placed for the Presidential consideration and assent. The applicable
principles were laid down in the following terms:-
> ―9. ...Since the interest of the evacuees in the Shamlat-deh lands was
> deemed to be declared as evacuee property, both the State Legislature and
> the Central Legislature had the power to deal with that interest by virtue
> of Entry 41. Article 254 of the Constitution deals with situations where
> there is inconsistency between the laws made by the Parliament and the laws
> made by the Legislature of a State.
> xxx xxx xxx Since the law made by the Legislature of the State of Punjab,
> namely, Section 3 of the Punjab Act of 1953, is repugnant to the law made by
> the Parliament which the Parliament was competent to enact, namely, Section
> 8(2)of the Central Act of 1950, the law made by the Parliament must prevail
> and the law made by the Punjab Legislature has to be held to be void to the
> extent of the repugnancy...
           xxx                             xxx                       xxx
           12.     ...The   assent   of    the   President    under
    W.P.(C)No.4770/2012                                       page 180 of 531
> Article 254(2) of the Constitution is not a matter of idle formality. The
> President has, at least, to be apprised of the reason why his assent is
> sought if, there is any special reason for doing so... ‖ (Emphasis supplied)
> It has therefore, been unequivocally declared that if a State is proposing a
> legislation which conflicts with a Central legislation, Presidential assent
> is required under Article 254. Consideration by the President to the
> proposal of the State legislature is required before according assent. The
> President has to be informed of the reason for which the Presidential assent
> is sought. The repugnancy, if any, has to be mandatorily pointed out. The
> Presidential assent is confined to the purpose for which it was sought, and
> not beyond. It is well settled that the consideration by the President has
> to be real and meaningful and is not an empty formality.
298\. The enunciation of law in the Gram Panchayat‟s case with regard to the
interpretation of Article 254 was approved by the Supreme Court in paras 18
and 22 of Kaiser-i-Hind (supra). It was also noted that these principles were
relied upon in the earlier judgment rendered in P.N. Krishan Lal and Ors. v.
Govt. of Kerala and Anr.1994 (5) SCALE 1 as well. In para 17, the Supreme
Court also approved the principles laid down in AIR 1955 Bom 35 Basantlal
Banarsilal v. Bansilal Dagdulal.
299\. It is noteworthy that the appellant in Kaiser-i-Hind (supra) had
referred to the decision of the Madras High Court in AIR 1982 Mad 399, Bapalal
and Co. v. P. Thakurdas and Ors. wherein the W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 181 of
531 Court had specifically arrived at a conclusion that Ex.P.12 showed that
Section 10 of the proposed State law (Rent Control Act) has been referred to
as the provision which could be said to be repugnant to the provisions of Code
of Civil Procedure and the Transfer of Property Act, which were existing laws
on the concurrent subject. After observing that, the Court had raised the
presumption that even if the State Legislature did not point out the
provisions of the Bill which are repugnant to the existing Central law, the
President should be presumed to have gone through the Bill to see whether any
of the provisions is repugnant to the Central law and whether such a
legislation is to be permitted before giving assent to the Bill. The Court in
Bapalal case (supra) further stated that merely because the State Government
does not indicate the exact provisions which are repugnant to the earlier
Central law, the assent given by the President cannot be said to be invalid.
This presumption was not approved by the Supreme Court and in para 27, it was
observed as follows:-
> ―27. ...We do not think that it was necessary to do so. In any case as
> discussed above, the essential ingredients of Article 254(2) are: (1)
> mentioning of the entry/entries with respect to one of the matters
> enumerated in the Concurrent List; (2) stating repugnancy to the provisions
> of an earlier law made by the Parliament and the State law and reasons for
> having such law; (3) thereafter it is required to be reserved for
> consideration of the President; and (4) receipt of the assent of the
> President.‖ (Emphasis supplied) W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 182 of 531
300\. The petitioners object before us that the conditions precedent to the
obtaining of Presidential assent have not been fulfilled. The requirements for
Presidential consideration are explicitly delineated in Kaiser-I-Hind (supra)
in the following terms:-
> "14. In view of aforesaid requirements, before obtaining the assent of the
> President, the State Government has to point out that the law made by the
> State legislature is in respect of one of the matters enumerated in the
> Concurrent List by mentioning entry/entries of Concurrent List and that it
> contains provision or provisions repugnant to the law made by the Parliament
> or existing law. Further, the words "reserved for consideration" would
> definitely indicate that there should be active application of mind by the
> President to the repugnancy pointed out between the proposed State law and
> the earlier law made by the Parliament and the necessity of having such a
> law, in the facts and circumstances of the matter, which is repugnant to a
> law enacted by Parliament prevailing in a State. The word "consideration"
> would manifest that after careful thinking over and due application of mind
> regarding the necessity of having State law which is repugnant to the law
> made by Parliament, the President may grant assent. This aspect is further
> reaffirmed by use of the word "assent" in clause (2), which implies
> knowledge of the President to the repugnancy between the State law and the
> earlier law made by Parliament on the same subject-matter and the reasons
> for grant of such assent. The word "assent" would mean in the context as an
> expressed agreement of mind to what is proposed by the State.
                             (Emphasis supplied)
    W.P.(C)No.4770/2012                                    page 183 of 531
> 301\. The Supreme Court has also considered the different meanings to the
> word ‗assent' in dictionaries in para 15 and thereafter laid down the
> following binding principles:-
> "16. Applying the aforesaid meaning of the word "assent" and from the
> phraseology used in Clause (2), the object of Article 254(2) appears that
> even though the law made by the Parliament would have supremacy, after
> considering the situation prevailing in the State and after considering the
> repugnancy between the State legislation and the earlier law made by
> Parliament, the President may give his assent to the law made by the State
> Legislature. This would require application of mind to both the laws and the
> repugnancy as well as the peculiar requirement of the State to have such a
> law, which is repugnant to the law made by Parliament. The word "assent" is
> used purposefully indicating affirmative action of the proposal made by the
> State for having law repugnant to the earlier law made by Parliament. It
> would amount to accepting or conceding and concurring to the demand made by
> the State for such law. This cannot be done without consideration of the
> relevant material. Hence the phrase used is "reserved for consideration",
> which under the Constitution cannot be an idle formality but would require
> serious consideration on the material placed before the President. The
> "consideration" could only be to the proposal made by the State."
> (Emphasis supplied)
> 302\. A matter reserved for consideration under Article 254(2) thus requires
> active application of mind of the President not only to the repugnancy
> between the proposed State law and the prior Central enactment but to the
> necessity of having different law as W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 184 of 531
> well. Such repugnancy and necessity has to be pointed out to the President
> in the proposal and material placed for his/her consideration. The
> Presidential assent must rest on a meaningful (―careful‖) consideration and
> due application of mind on this issues to support the constitutionality of
> the legislation under challenge.
303\. Our attention is also drawn to the following discussion on the
submission raised as an additional ground noticed in para 62 of Kaiser-I-Hind
Pvt. Ltd.(supra) which has been pressed before us and reads as follows:-
> ―62. On behalf of the appellant, the following additional ground is raised
> in the written submission.
> "Article 254(1) incorporates the principle of supremacy of parliamentary law
> - it applies to any provision of ‗a law made by the legislature of a State'
> which is repugnant to any parliamentary law or (which is repugnant) to any
> existing law. Article 254(1) opening part, does not expressly give supremacy
> to parliamentary law over existing State/provincial law - i.e. law made in
> the Provinces before the Constitution (sic) hence Constitution, the Bombay
> Amending Act 43 of 1951 (the first law enacted by the State legislature
> after the Constitution) - even though a mere extension law - must
> constitutionally be regarded as a law made by the legislature of a State,
> for purposes of applicability of Article 254(1), which it could only be if
> it was a substantive law re-enacting or incorporating the provisions of the
> 1947 Act, post-Constitution. That it was reserved W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page
> 185 of 531 for the consideration of the President and received his assent
> lends support to the fact that it was not a mere extension but treated as a
> substantive enactment."
> 304\. After a detailed consideration, this submission was also rejected by
> the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court laid down binding principles on the
> requirements to be met to substantially comply with Article 254(2) of the
> Constitution. The declaration of the legal principles which clearly apply to
> the instant case are set out hereafter:
> ―65. The result of the foregoing discussion is:
> xxx xxx xxx
> 2.(a) Article 254(2) contemplates ―reservation for consideration of the
> President‖ and also ―assent‖. Reservation for consideration is not an empty
> formality. Pointed attention of the President is required to be drawn to the
> repugnancy between the earlier law made by Parliament and the contemplated
> State legislature and the reasons for having such law despite the enactment
> by Parliament.
> (b) The word ―assent‖ used in Clause (2) of Article 254 would in context
> mean express agreement of mind to what is proposed by the State.
> (c) In case where it is not indicated that ―assent‖ is qua a particular law
> made by Parliament, then it is open to the Court to call for the proposals
> made by the State for the consideration of the President before obtaining
> assent.‖ (Emphasis by us) W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 186 of 531
305\. It is manifest therefore that Presidential assent is confined to the
proposal by the State Legislature, under Article 254 and nothing more.
306\. It is essential to emphasise that while considering the phrase ―reserved
for consideration‖, the Supreme Court has clearly stated that the same ―under
the Constitution cannot be an idle formality‖. On this aspect, the
supplementary opinion given by Justice D. Raju, in Kaiser-I-Hind Pvt.
Ltd.(supra) is important and reads as follows:-
> "73. The assent of the President envisaged under Article 254(2) is neither
> an idle or empty formality, nor an automatic event, necessitated or to be
> given for the mere asking, in whatever form or manner and whether specific,
> vague, general of indefinite - in the terms sought for to claim that once
> sought and obtained as well as published, a curtain or veil is drawn, to
> preclude any probe or contention for consideration that what was sought and
> obtained was not really what should and ought to have been, to claim the
> protection envisaged under clause (2) in respect of a particular State law
> vis-a-vis or with reference to any particular or specified law on the same
> subject made by Parliament or an existing law, in force. The repugnancy
> envisaged under clause (1) or enabled under clause (2) to get excepted from
> under the protective coverage of the assent obtained from the President, is
> such that there is a legislation or legislative provision(s), covering and
> operating on the same field or identical subject-matter made by both the
> Union and the State, both of them being competent to enact in respect of the
> same subject-
matter or the legislative field, but the legislation by W.P.(C)No.4770/2012
page 187 of 531 Parliament has come to occupy the entire field. Necessarily,
in the quasi-federal structure adopted for the nation, predominance is given
to the law made by the Parliament and in such circumstances only the State law
which secured the assent of the President under clause (2) of Article 254
comes to be protected, subject of course to the powers of Parliament under the
proviso to the said clause. Therefore, the President has to be apprised of the
reasons at least as to why his assent is being sought, the need or necessity
and the justification or otherwise for claiming predominance for the State law
concerned. This itself would postulate an obligation, inherent in the scheme
underlying as well as the very purpose and object of seeking the assent under
Clause (2) of Article 254 to enumerate or specify and illustrate the
particular Central law or provision with reference to which the predominance
is desired. The absence of any standardized or stipulated form in which it is
to be sought for, should not detract the State concerned, to disown its
obligation to be precise and specific in the extent of protection sought
having regard to the serious consequences which thereby inevitably follow,
i.e. the substitution of the Union law in force by the State law, in the
territorial limits of the State concerned, with drastic alteration or change
in the rights of citizen, which it may, thereby bring about."
(Emphasis by us)
307\. On this issue the judgment reported at (2009) 5 SCC 342 Grand Kakatiya
Sheraton Hotel and Towers Employees and Workers Union v. Srinivasa Resorts
Ltd., it was held as under:-
> ―81. The impugned judgment is a complete answer to the question raised
> regarding Article 254(2). There can be no doubt that both the Central Act
> and the W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 188 of 531 impugned State Act operate in
> the same field inasmuch as the ―service compensation‖ is nothing but
> ―gratuity‖, though called by a different name. Under such circumstances,
> unless it was shown that while obtaining the Presidential assent for the
> State Act, the conflict between the two Acts was specifically brought to the
> notice of the President, before obtaining the same, the State could not have
> used the escape route provided by Article 254(2) of the Constitution. We
> fully agree with the High Court when the High Court held that the two Acts
> occupy the common field and were in conflict with each other. The contention
> of the appellant that Article 254(2) would save the impugned provisions is,
> therefore, rejected.‖ (Emphasis by us)
308\. So far as the manner in which the proposal is required to be made for
the Presidential reference, reliance has been placed by Mr. Chandhiok on the
judgment reported at (2012) 9 SCC 368, Krishi Upaj Mandi Samiti, Narsinghpur
v. Shiv Shakti Khansari Udyog & Ors. The appellants before the Supreme Court
had urged that the provisions of the Control Order cannot prevail over the
Market Act because the Market Act was enforced after considering the conflict
between the provisions of both and thereafter received Presidential assent.
This submission was rejected by the Supreme Court for the reason that ―in the
counter filed before the High Court, no such plea was raised and no document
was produced to show that the Market Act was reserved for Presidential assent
on the ground that the provisions contained therein are in conflict with those
contained in the Control Order.‖ W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 189 of 531 The
Supreme Court thus noted that before the High Court, it was not argued that
the President had been apprised of the conflict between the Control Order and
the Market Act and he accorded assent after considering this fact.
309\. In para 42.3 of the judgment, the court noted that during the arguments,
it had ―42.3 ...directed Shri B.S. Banthia, learned counsel for the State of
Madhya Pradesh to produce the record to show as to in what context the Market
Act was reserved for the Presidential assent. After the judgment was reserved,
ShriBanthia handed over an envelope containing File No. 17/62/73-Judicial of
the Ministry of Home Affairs, perusal of which reveals that the request of the
State Government for Presidential assent was processed by the Ministry of Home
Affairs. In the first instance, the Departments of Agriculture, Food and
Internal Trade as also the Planning Commission were asked to offer their
comments. The Department of Agriculture conveyed no objection but wanted its
suggestions to be incorporated in the Bill. The others did not offer any
comment. Thereafter, the Joint Secretary (Home) recorded a note that the
suggestions given by the Agriculture Department will be sent to the State
Government for consideration. He also prepared a summary for consideration of
the President...
xxx xxx xxx
43\. From the summary reproduced hereinabove, it is clear that the State
Government had not reserved the Market Act for Presidential assent on the
ground of any repugnancy between the provisions of that Act and the Control
Order.
    W.P.(C)No.4770/2012                                   page 190 of 531
            xxx                       xxx                xxx
48\. In view of the aforesaid judgments of the Constitution Benches, we hold
that Article 254(2) of the Constitution is not available to the appellants for
seeking a declaration that the Market Act would prevail over the Control Order
and that transactions involving the purchase of sugarcane by the factories
operating in the market areas would be governed by the provisions contained in
the Market Act. As a corollary, we hold that the High Court did not commit any
error by quashing the notices issued by the appellant Market Committees to the
respondents requiring them to take licence under the Market Act and pay market
fee on the purchase of sugarcane from cane-growers/Cane-Growers' Cooperative
Societies.‖
310\. In para 44 of the judgment reported at (2012) 9 SCC 368 Krishi Upaj
Mandi Samiti, Narsinghpur v. Shiv Shakti Khansari Udyog & Ors. the Supreme
Court relied upon the pronouncement by the Constitution Bench in Gram
Panchayat of Village Jamalpur v. Malwinder Singh (supra) on the nature and
scope of Presidential assent under Article 254(2).
311\. In the present case, the respondents have merely forwarded copies of the
proposed Bill to the President without anything more. It is urged that this
was in compliance of the constitutional requirement.
312\. In reply to the contention, Mr. Harish Salve, learned Senior Counsel for
the respondents has placed the judgment reported at W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page
191 of 531 (1977) 3 SCC 592, State of Rajasthan &Ors. v. Union of India &Ors.
It is however pointed out by the petitioners that this judgment was overruled
in the judgment of the Supreme Court reported at (1982) 1 SCC 271, A.K. Roy
&Ors. v. Union of India &Ors. The same has also been overruled by the
Constitutional Bench in para 31 of the S.R. Bommai case (supra).
313\. In Kaiser-i-Hind (supra), the Supreme Court also considered the issue as
to whether simply forwarding a copy of the proposed Bill to the President is
sufficient compliance of the requirement. It was clearly held that it would
not suffice. On this issue the court held as follows:
> ―74. The mere forwarding of a copy of the Bill may obviate, if at all, only
> the need to refer to each one of the provisions therein in detail in the
> requisition sent or the letter forwarding it, but not obliterate the
> necessity to point out specifically the particular Central law or provisions
> with reference to which, the predominance is claimed or purported to be
> claimed. The deliberate use of the word ―consideration‖ in Clause (2) of
> Article 254, in my view, not only connotes that there should be an active
> application of mind, but also postulates a deliberate and careful thought
> process before taking a decision to accord or not to accord the assent
> sought for. If the object of referring the State law for consideration is to
> have the repugnancy resolved by securing predominance to the State law, the
> President has to necessarily consider the nature and extent of repugnancy,
> the feasibility, practicalities and desirabilities involved therein, though
> may not be obliged to write a judgment in the same manner, the
> W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 192 of 531 courts of law do, before arriving at a
> conclusion to grant or refuse to grant or even grant partially, if the
> repugnancy is with reference to more than one law in force made by the
> Parliament.‖
314\. The proviso to Clause 3(c) of Article 239AA contains the phrase ‗such
law made by the Legislative Assembly'. Reference in this proviso is clearly
made to such law made by the Delhi Assembly provisions whereof are repugnant
to provisions of a law made by the Parliament. It is implicit in a bare
reading of this constitutional provision that it envisages an enactment which
is repugnant and therefore the repugnancy has to be pointed out prior to
seeking the assent of the President in the proposal seeking Presidential
consideration and assent.
315\. The information and material which must be placed for a meaningful
consideration by the President is concerned, in para 77 of Kaiser-i-Hind
(supra), the Supreme Court in no uncertain terms set out the requirements and
importance thereof in the following terms:
> ―xxx A genuine, real and effective consideration would depend upon specific
> and sufficient information being provided to him inviting, at any rate, his
> attention to the Central law with which the State law is considered or
> apprehended to be repugnant, and in the absence of any effort or exercise
> shown to have been undertaken, when questioned before courts, the State law
> cannot be permitted or allowed to have predominance or overriding effect
> over that Central enactment of the W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 193 of 531
> Parliament to which no specific reference of the President at all has been
> invited to. This, in my view, is a must and an essential requirement to be
> satisfied; in the absence of which the "consideration" claimed would be one
> in vacuum and really oblivious to the hoard of legislations falling under
> the Concurrent List in force in the country and enacted by the Parliament.
> To uphold as valid the claim for any such blanket assent or all- round
> predominance over any and every such law - whether brought to the notice of
> the President or not, would amount to legitimization of what was not even in
> the contemplation or consideration on the basis of some assumed
> "consideration". xxx‖ (Emphasis by us)
316\. From the above discussion, it is also evident that the logic of the
judicially-expounded requirements underlying Presidential assent under Article
254(2) apply with equal--and arguably even greater--force to Article 239AA.
317\. We may usefully also examine the manner in which the scope of
Presidential consideration has been construed in other jurisdictions as well.
The decision of the Supreme Court of the United States of America in Okanogan,
Methow, San Poelis, Nespelem, Colville and Lake Indian Tribes or Bands of
State of Washington v. United States (The Pocket Veto Case) 279 U.S. 655, 49
S. Ct. 463 is useful in this regard . Under the second clause in Section 7 of
Article 1 of the Constitution of the United States of America, a Bill which is
passed by both the Houses of Congress during the first regular session of a
particular Congress and presented to the President less than 10 days (Sundays
W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 194 of 531 excepted) before the adjournment of that
session, but is neither signed by the President nor returned by him to the
House in which it originated, becomes a law in like manner as if he had signed
it. At the first session of the 69th Congress, Senate Bill No.3185 having been
duly passed by both the Houses of Congress and duly authenticated was
presented to the President on 24th June, 1926. On July 3, the first session of
the 69 th Congress was adjourned under a House Concurrent Resolution. It is
noteworthy that on this day, the period of 10 days available to the President
under Article 1 had not expired. The Congress was not again in session until
the commencement of the 2nd Session on the first Monday in December and
neither House of Congress was in session on July 6th to 10th day after the
bill had been presented to the President (Sundays excepted).
318\. The President neither signed the Bill nor returned it to the Senate and
it was not published as a law. Some Indian tribes residing in the State of
Washington filed the petition in the Court of Claims setting up certain claims
in accordance with the terms of the Bill, on the position that the Bill had
become a law without the signature of the President. The question as to
whether in these circumstances, under the provisions of the Constitution of
the United States of America, the Bill had or had not become a law was
considered by the Supreme Court. It was argued before the court by counsel for
the petitioners and by the amicus curiae that the provision as to the return
of a Bill to the House within a W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 195 of 531 specified
time is to be construed in a manner that will give effect to the reciprocal
rights and duties of the President and of the Congress and not enable him to
defeat a Bill of which he disapproves by a silent and ‗absolute veto' i.e. a
so called ‗pocket veto', which neither discloses his objections nor gives the
Congress an opportunity to pass the Bill over them.
319\. The Supreme Court of the United States of America in this context had
occasion to construe the Presidential duty of consideration of the Bill. It
was held as follows:
> ―This argument involves a misconception of the reciprocal rights and duties
> of the President and of Congress and of the situation resulting from an
> adjournment of Congress which prevents the President from returning a bill
> with his objections within the specified time. This is illustrated in the
> use of the term ‗pocket veto,' which does not accurately describe the
> situation, and is misleading in its implications in that it suggests that
> the failure of the bill in such case is necessarily due to the disapproval
> of the President and the intentional withholding of the bill from
> reconsideration. The Constitution in giving the President a qualified
> negative over legislation-commonly called a veto-entrusts him with an
> authority and imposes upon him an obligation that are of the highest
> importance, in the execution of which it is made his duty not only to sign
> bills that he approves in order that they may become law, but to return
> bills that he disapproves, with his objections, in order that they may be
> reconsidered by Congress. The faithful and effective exercise of this
> momentous duty necessarily requires time in which the President
> W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 196 of 531 may carefully examine and consider a
> bill and determine, after due deliberation, whether he should approve or
> disapprove it, and if he disapproves it, formulate his objections for the
> consideration of Congress.
> xxx xxx xxx The power thus conferred upon the President cannot be narrowed
> or cut down by Congress, nor the time within which it is to be exercises
> lessened, directly or indirectly. And it is just as essential a part of the
> constitutional provisions, guarding against ill- considered and unwise
> legislation, that the President, on his part, should have the full time
> allowed him for determining whether he should approve or disapprove a bill,
> and if disapproved, for adequately formulating the objections that should be
> considered by Congress, as it is that Congress, on its part, should have an
> opportunity to re-pass the bill over his objections.‖ (Emphasis by us)
320\. The above narration shows that the solemnity attached to the
consideration of a bill by the President and assent thereto cannot be
denigrated by any action of the legislature. The proposal by the State must
receive scrutiny and consideration before assent is accorded thereto under the
Constitution.
321\. Merely forwarding the proposal and copies of the Bill to the President
therefore does not meet the Constitutional requirement.
322\. The respondents before us have therefore completely failed to meet the
essential pre-conditions, which are sine qua non for Presidential
consideration and assent.
W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 197 of 531
323\. It is well settled that if the Constitution of India provides
preconditions for exercise of power by the constitutional authorities, the
courts can always examine whether the preconditions have been satisfied or
not. The same principles as above shall equally apply in case of judicial
review with respect to a bill which is reserved for the consideration of the
President.
324\. The fact that Presidential assent has been accorded, therefore is by
itself not determinative of the matter. The respondents must conform to the
requirement of active application of mind by the President to the repugnancy
which has to be pointed out in the proposal by the State Government. It must
also be shown that there was active application of mind to the necessity of
having a State law which is different from the Central law. If there is a
constitutional challenge to a legislation and the ‗assent' does not disclose
its nature (as in the present case) the inquiry by the court may include
examination of the nature of the proposal as well as the purpose for which the
legislation was placed before the President.
325\. From the principles laid down in the several authoritative judicial
precedents, we find that it is a sine qua non for valid consideration and
application of mind by the President, that the proposal by the State
Government must set out the provisions of the proposed statutory amendment
which are repugnant to the Central law. It indubitably follows that a mere
averment of the conflicting provisions would not suffice. The proposal must
W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 198 of 531 comprehensively incorporate the reasons
and state the compulsion for enacting the contemplated amendment.
Scope of judicial review of the Presidential consideration
326\. We have held that ‗consideration' and ‗assent' are not exercise of
legislative power, but merely part of legislative procedure. We have also
examined the facets of Presidential consideration and assent.
327\. The respondents have pressed an absolute prohibition to our examination
of the legislation on the ground that the President has accorded assent
thereto. On the parameters of judicial review on issues relating to ‗assent',
the observations of D. Raju, J. in his supplementing opinion in (2002) 8 SCC
182, Kaiser-i-Hind Pvt. Ltd. v. National Textile Corporation (Maharashtra
North) Ltd. &Ors. shed valuable light on the issue under our consideration.
The same reads as follows:
> ―75. This Court has, no doubt, held that the assent accorded by the
> President is not justifiable, and courts cannot spell out any infirmity in
> the decision arrived at, to give the assent. Similarly, when the President
> was found to have accorded assent and the same was duly published, it cannot
> be contended that the assent was not really that of the President, as
> claimed. It is also not given to anyone to challenge the decision of the
> President according assent, on merits and as to its legality, propriety or
> desirability.
But that is not the same thing as approving an attempt to draw a blanket or
veil so as to preclude an examination by this Court or the High Court as to
W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 199 of 531 the justifiability and sufficiency or
otherwise of the protection or predominance claimed for the State law over the
law made by the Parliament or the existing law, based upon the assent
accorded, resulting at times in substantial alteration, change or modification
in the rights and obligations of citizen, including the fundamental rights.
When the Constitution extends a form of protection to a repugnant State law,
permitting predominance and also to hold the field in the place of the law
made by the Centre, conditioned upon the reservation of the State law for
consideration of the President and obtaining his assent, it is to be
necessarily viewed as an essential prerequisite to be effectively and
meticulously fulfilled before ever availing of the protection and the same
cannot be viewed merely as a ceremonial ritual. If such a vitally essential
procedure and safeguard is to be merely viewed as a routine formality which
can be observed in whatever manner desired by those concerned and that it
would be merely enough, if the assent has been secured howsoever obtained, it
would amount to belittling its very importance in the context of distribution
of legislative powers and the absolute necessity to preserve the supremacy of
the Parliament to enact a law on a concurrent topic in List III, for the
entire country. It would also amount to acceptance of even a farce of
compliance to be actual or real compliance. Such a course could not be adopted
by Courts except by doing violence to the language, as well as the scheme, and
very object underlying Article 254(2).‖ (Emphasis supplied)
328\. In (2006) 2 SCC 1, Rameshwar Prasad v. Union of India, the court was
concerned with the invalidity of proclamation under Article 356 of the
Constitution dissolving the Assemblies of W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 200 of 531
Karnataka and Nagaland. Reference was made to a pronouncement of the Supreme
Court of Pakistan. The following observations in the pronouncement on the
parameters on which the Presidential powers would be exercised are important:
> ―121. Reference has been made to a decision of the Supreme Court of Pakistan
> on the same subject, although the language of the provisions of the relevant
> articles of the Pakistani Constitution is not couched in the same terms. In
> Mohd. Sharif v. Federation of Pakistan, (1982) 1 SCC 271, the question was
> whether the order of the President dissolving the National Assembly on
> 29-5-1988 was in accordance with the powers conferred on him under Article
> 58(2)(b) of the Pakistani Constitution. It was held in that case that it is
> not quite right to contend that since it was the discretion of the
> President, on the basis of his opinion, the President could dissolve the
> National Assembly; but he has to have the reasons which are justifiable in
> the eyes of the people and supportable by law in a court of justice. He
> could not rely upon the reasons which have no nexus to the action, are bald,
> vague, general or such as can always be given and have been given with
> disastrous effects (Emphasis supplied by us). It would be instructive to
> note as to what was stated by the learned Chief Justice and R.S. Sidhwa, J.,
> as reproduced in the opinion of Sawant, J. (Bommai case):
"Whether it is 'subjective' or 'objective' satisfaction of the President or it
is his 'discretion' or 'opinion', this much is quite clear that the President
cannot exercise his powers under the Constitution on wish or whim. He has to
have facts, circumstances which can lead a person of his status to form an
intelligent opinion requiring exercise of discretion of such a
W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 201 of 531 grave nature that the representatives of
the people who are primarily entrusted with the duty of running the affairs of
the State are removed with a stroke of the pen. His action must appear to be
called for and justifiable under the Constitution if challenged in a court of
Law. No doubt, the courts will be chary to interfere in his 'discretion' or
formation of the 'opinion' about the 'situation' but if there be no basis or
justification for the order under the Constitution, the courts will have to
perform their duty cast on them under the Constitution. While doing so, they
will not be entering in the political arena for which appeal to electorate is
provided for.‖ (Emphasis by us)
329\. In (2006) 2 SCC 1, Rameshwar Prasad v. Union of India, the Supreme Court
also unequivocally declared that the court would have jurisdiction to examine
whether the satisfaction is malafide or based on wholly extraneous or
irrelevant grounds. In para 124, it was observed as follows:-
> ―124. It is well settled that if the satisfaction is mala fide or is based
> on wholly extraneous or irrelevant grounds, the court would have the
> jurisdiction to examine it, because in that case there would be no
> satisfaction of the President in regard to the matter on which he is
> required to be satisfied. On consideration of these observations made in
> State of Rajasthan as also the other decisions {Kehar Singh v. Union of
> India (1989) 1 SCC 204 and Maru Ram v. Union of India (1981) 1 SCC 107},
> Sawant, J.
concluded that ―The exercise of power to issue the proclamation under Article
356(1) is subject to judicial review at least to the extent of examining
whether the conditions precedent to the issue of the W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page
202 of 531 Proclamation have been satisfied or not. This examination will
necessarily involve the scrutiny as to whether there existed material for the
satisfaction of the President that the situation had arisen in which the
Government of the State could not be carried on in accordance with the
provisions of the Constitution. ..."
330\. In exercise of its extraordinary powers under Article 226 of the
Constitution, the High Court therefore has the jurisdiction to examine whether
preconditions and procedure constitutionally prescribed has been followed or
not, in the consideration by the President of the proposed State Legislation
and grant of assent thereto. The court would scrutinize whether relevant
material existed and was actually placed before the President or not. As part
of the judicial review, it is also open to the court to examine whether the
Presidential consideration is based on extraneous or irrelevant grounds. The
Presidential consideration and assent so granted would confer supremacy to the
State law over the law made by the Parliament. In this context the
consideration assumes vital importance and has to be real and meaningful.
331\. The extent of the power of the court to examine the basis of the
Governor's report as well as the nature of its consideration was discussed and
the principles laid down in paras 140 and 141 of Rameshwar Prasad v. Union of
India (supra) and the conclusions in para 145 were based on these. These may
also be usefully extracted and read as follows:-
W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 203 of 531 ―140. Thus, it is open to the Court, in
exercise of judicial review, to examine the question whether the Governor's
report is based upon relevant material or not; whether it is made bona fide or
not; and whether the facts have been duly verified or not. The absence of
these factors resulted in the majority declaring the dissolution of State
Legislatures of Karnataka and Nagaland as invalid.
141\. In view of the above, we are unable to accept the contention urged by
the learned Attorney General for India, Solicitor General of India and
Additional Solicitor General, appearing for the Government that the report of
the Governor itself is the material and that it is not permissible within the
scope of judicial review to go into the material on which the report of the
Governor may be based and the question whether the same was duly verified by
the Governor or not. In the present case, we have nothing except the reports
of the Governor. In absence of the relevant material much less due
verification, the report of the Governor has to be treated as the personal
ipse dixit of the Governor. The drastic and extreme action under Article 356
cannot be justified on mere ipse dixit, suspicion, whims and fancies of the
Governor. This Court cannot remain a silent spectator watching the subversion
of the Constitution...
xxx xxx xxx
145\. In the present case, like in Bommai case, there is no material
whatsoever except the ipse dixit of the Governor. The action which results in
preventing a political party from staking claim to form a Government after
election, on such fanciful assumptions, if allowed to stand, would be
destructive of the democratic fabric. ...The extra ordinary emergency power of
recommending W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 204 of 531 dissolution of a Legislative
Assembly is not a matter of course to be resorted to for good governance or
cleansing of the politics for the stated reasons without any authentic
material. These are the matters better left to the wisdom of others including
Opposition and electorate.‖ (Emphasis supplied)
332\. The following observations which expound the principles on the scope of
judicial review in S.R. Bommai (supra) also may usefully be set out in
extenso:
> ―93. In A.K. Roy v. Union of India : (1982) 1 SCC 271, the Court has
> observed that "Clause [5] has been deleted by the 44th Amendment and,
> therefore, any observations made in the State of Rajasthan case [supra] on
> the basis of that clause cannot any longer hold good". These observations
> imply that after the deletion of Clause [5], the judicial review of the
> Proclamation issued under Article 356[1] has become wider than indicated in
> the State of Rajasthan case.
> xxx xxx xxx
> 96\. ... Any interpretation that we may place on Article 356 must, therefore
> help to preserve and not subvert their fabric. The power vested de jure in
> the President but de facto in the Council of Ministers under Article 356 has
> all the latent capacity to emasculate the two basic features of the
> Constitution and hence it is necessary to scrutinise the material on the
> basis of which the advice is given and the President forms his satisfaction
> more closely and circumspectly. This can be done by the Courts while
> confining themselves to the acknowledged parameters of the judicial review
> as discussed above, viz., illegality, irrationality and mala fides. Such
> scrutiny W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 205 of 531 of the material will also be
> within the judicially discoverable and manageable standards.
> xxx xxx xxx‖
> 333\. We may usefully extract the principles laid down in para 77 of Kaiser-
> i-Hind (supra) on the scope of judicial review into Presidential
> consideration as well, the relevant portion whereof reads thus:
> "... In order to find out the real state of affairs as to whether the
> "assent" in a given case was after a due and proper application of mind and
> effective "consideration" as envisaged by the Constitution, this Court as
> well as the High Court exercising powers of judicial review are entitled to
> call for the relevant records and look into the same. This the courts have
> been doing, as and when considered necessary, all along. No exception
> therefore could be taken to the High Court in this case adopting such a
> procedure, in discharge of its obligations and exercise of jurisdiction
> under the Constitution of India.‖ (Emphasis by us)
> 334\. We have noticed above the parameters within which Presidential assent
> would be examined by court. If the conditions precedent or the relevant
> material is not placed before the President for consideration, then it ipso
> facto follows that there is no consideration under the constitutional
> mandate. It would then follow that mere grant of the Presidential assent
> would not confer superiority to the State Legislation over a Central law.
> W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 206 of 531 Whether requirements for seeking
> "general" assent are different from those for seeking "specific" assent
335\. A plea is taken on behalf of the respondents to the effect that that the
President had granted general assent to the proposed legislation. This plea
has been orally raised for the first time during the course of oral arguments.
336\. No such plea has also been taken in the counter affidavit or in the
written submissions filed by the respondents before us. There is no material
to this effect in the records which were produced before us.
337\. It is possible that there may be a case where Presidential assent is
sought in general terms. In such a circumstance, assent when given, will be
applicable generally for which it was sought. The nature and contents of the
proposal made to the President seeking the assent would be material in
deciding the nature of assent which was granted.
338\. The distinction between so-called ―specific‖ and ―general‖ assent has
been urged before us by the respondent as obviating the need to fulfil any of
the constitutional requirements for a valid ‗consideration' under Article
239AA.
339\. Even if such a plea of the respondent is accepted, the decision in
Kaiser-i-Hind (supra) makes it clear that assent of a general nature must also
comport with certain principles in order to be considered as constitutional.
W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 207 of 531
340\. It has been clearly declared in para 20 of Kaiser-i-Hind (supra) that
the ‗consideration by the President' and his ‗assent' under Article 254(2) is
limited only to the proposal made by the State Government and that the such
legislation would prevail only qua the laws for which the repugnancy was
actually pointed out and the ‗assent' of the President sought for. Proposal by
the State is sine qua non for ‗consideration' and ‗assent'. Thus, if the
assent relates to a law approved by the State legislature (or the GNCT of
Delhi as at present) which is repugnant to any provision of the Parliamentary
enactment, it is essential to examine the proposal sent by the concerned
government (‗the Govt. of NCT of Delhi' in the instant case) to the President
to ascertain as to whether the President has assented to the proposed law
which is repugnant to Parliamentary law to prevail or not. This is more so
when neither the Presidential assent (as in the instant case) nor the
statutory enactment so states.
341\. This, thus, is in fact reiteration of the meaning of assent in ‗general
terms', stated in (1985) 3 SCC 661, Gram Panchayat of Village Jamalpur v.
Malwinder Singh wherein the court observed as follows:
> ―12. ...If the assent is sought and given in general terms so as to be
> effective for all purposes, different considerations may legitimately arise.
> But if, as in the instant case, the assent of the President is sought to the
> law for a specific purpose, the efficacy of the assent would be limited to
> that purpose and cannot be extended beyond it.
> W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 208 of 531 Not only was the President not apprised
> in the instant case that his assent was sought because of the repugnancy
> between the State Act and the pre- existing Central Act on the vesting of
> evacuee properties but, his assent was sought for a different, specific
> purpose altogether. Therefore, that assent cannot avail the State Government
> for the purpose of according precedence to the law made by the State
> Legislature, namely, the Punjab Act of 1953, over the law made by the
> Parliament, even within the jurisdiction of the State.‖ (Emphasis supplied)
342\. The Supreme Court has laid down the law on such plea of the respondents
(as in the present case) that assent was sought in general terms in Kaiser-i-
Hind (supra).
> "74. ...Protection cannot be claimed for the State law, when questioned
> before courts, taking cover under the assent, merely asserting that it was
> in general form, irrespective of the actual fact whether the State claimed
> for such protection against a specific law or the attention of the President
> was invited to at least an apprehended repugnancy vis-a-vis the particular
> Central law. In the teeth of innumerable Central laws enacted and in force
> on concurrent subjects enumerated in List III of the Seventh Schedule to the
> Constitution, and the hoard of provisions contained therein, artificial
> assumptions based on some supposed knowledge of all those provisions and the
> presumed regularity of official acts, cannot be blown out of proportion, to
> do away with an essential exercise, to make the "assent" meaningful, as if
> they are empty formalities, except at the risk of rendering Article 254
> itself a dead letter or merely otiose. The significant and serious
> alteration in or modification of W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 209 of 531 the
> rights of parties, both individuals or institutions resulting from the
> "assent" cannot be overlooked or lightly brushed aside as of no
> significance, whatsoever. In a federal structure, peculiar to the one
> adopted by our Constitution it would become necessary for the President to
> be apprised of the reason as to why and for what special reason or object
> and purpose, predominance for the State law over the Central law is sought
> deviating from the law in force made by Parliament for the entire country,
> including that part of the State. When this Court observed in Gram Panchayat
> of Village Jamalpur v.
Malwinder Singh and Ors. (1985) 3 SCC 661, that when the assent of President
is sought for a specific purpose the efficacy of the assent would be limited
to that purpose and cannot be extended beyond it, and that if the assent is
sought and given in general terms so as to be effective for all purposes
different considerations may legitimately arise, it cannot legitimately be
contended that this court had also declared that reservation of the State law
can also be by mere reference to Article 254(2) alone with no further
disclosures to be made or that with mere forwarding of the Bill, no other
information or detail was either a permissible or legalized and approved
course to be adopted or that such course was held to be sufficient, by this
Court, to serve the purpose of the said article. The expression "general
terms" needs to be understood, in my view, a reference to a particular law as
a whole in contrast to any one particular or individual in the said law and
not that, it can be even without any reference whatsoever. The further
observation therein, ―not only was the President not apprised in the instant
case that his assent was sought because of the repugnancy between the State
Act and the pre-existing Central Act on the W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 210 of
531 vesting of evacuee properties but his assent was sought for a different,
specific purpose altogether‖ would belie any such claim. Per contra, it would
only reinforce the principle that the consideration as well as the decision to
accord consent should be a conscious one, after due application of mind,
relevant and necessary for the purpose. Though, submission of a thesis on the
various aspects of repugnancy involved may not be the requirement the
reservation for "consideration" would necessarily obligate an invitation of
the attention of the President as to which of the pre-existing Central
enactments or which provisions of those enactments are considered or
apprehended to be repugnant, with reference to which the assent envisaged in
Article 254(2) is sought for. This becomes all the more necessary also for the
reason that the repugnancy in respect of which predominance is sought to be
secured must be shown to exist or apprehended, on the date of the State law
and not in vacuum to cure any and every possible repugnancy in respect of all
laws- irrespective of whether it was in the contemplation or not of the seeker
of the assent or of the President at the time of "consideration" for according
assent."
(Emphasis supplied) In order for the Presidential assent to be in general
terms, the respondents were required to have so stated clearly in the proposal
to the President. It was necessary for the President to have considered the
proposal from this aspect.
343\. We shall examine whether the proposal sent by the W.P.(C)No.4770/2012
page 211 of 531 respondents complies with the Constitutional requirements
noticed by us in the next section of this judgment.
Position in the present case: exercise undertaken by the respondents
344\. We may now examine exercise undertaken by the respondents in the present
case. In view of the principles laid down in AIR 1955 Bombay 35, Basantlal
Banarsilal v. Bansilal Dagdulal, local conditions prevalent in a State at a
particular point of time are certainly a relevant consideration. The
Presidential consideration requires the President to be satisfied that judging
by such considerations, a particular State should be permitted to make a
departure from a Central enactment to the extent proposed by it.
345\. Based on the foregoing, we find that the Supreme Court has held that, in
order to ensure that the President undertakes the constitutionally required
‗consideration' of a repugnancy under either of the Articles - 239AA or be it
254(2), the body seeking Presidential assent must:
> (i) Apprise the President of the reasons as to why assent is being sought;
> (ii) Apprise the President of the necessity of overruling the predominance
> of the Central law, and justify this claim of necessity;
> (iii) Specifically point out the particular Central law or laws with
> reference to which predominance is desired (if claiming repugnancy with an
> entire Central law or laws);
> W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 212 of 531
> (iv) Specifically point out the particular provisions within a Central law
> with reference to which predominance is desired (if claiming repugnancy with
> particular provisions of a Central law or laws);
> (v) Point out the nature and extent of the repugnancy; and
> (vi) Precisely and specifically outline the extent of protection sought with
> regard to the consequences that would follow.
346\. As noticed above, the respondents have stated in para (iii) of their
affidavit dated 4th of January 2013 that by their letter dated 15th June,
2012, the Amendment Bill was referred to the President for her consideration
―expressly setting out the repugnancy to the central enactment". The letter
dated 15th June, 2012 clearly refers to ‗repugnancy', so as to countermand any
generality. The affidavit dated 4th of January 2013 was filed at an advanced
stage of hearing in the writ petition when the respondents had full knowledge
of the challenge by the petitioners. In the oral submissions made before us,
the respondents urge us to accept the oral contention that the Court Fees
(Delhi Amendment) Act, 2012 in question was referred to the President for
assent because it was ―in respect of an earlier law‖ and not because of a
putative repugnancy between the two laws.
347\. It is well settled that the respondents cannot be permitted to raise a
defence for action which is not supported by their official records. In this
regard, in (1978) 1 SCC 405, Mohinder Singh Gill and Anr. v. The Chief
Election Commissioner, New Delhi and W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 213 of 531 Ors.
the court had laid down the following principle:
> ―8. The second equally relevant matter is that when a statutory functionary
> makes an order based on certain grounds, its validity must be judged by the
> reasons so mentioned and cannot be supplemented by fresh reasons in the
> shape of affidavit or otherwise. Otherwise, an order bad in the beginning
> may, by the time it comes to court on account of a challenge, get validated
> by additional grounds later brought out. We may here draw attention to the
> observations of Bose, J. in Commr. of Police, Bombay v. Gordhandas Bhanji,
> AIR 1952 SC 16 :
> ―Public orders, publicly made, in exercise of a statutory authority cannot
> be construed in the light of explanations subsequently given by the officer
> making the order of what he meant, or of what was in his mind, or what he
> intended to do. Public orders made by public authorities are meant to have
> public effect and are intended to affect the actings and conduct of those to
> whom they are addressed and must be construed objectively with reference to
> the language used in the order itself.‖ Orders are not like old wine
> becoming better as they grow older.‖
> 348\. It is well settled that the order and records must speak for
> themselves and the respondents cannot rely on pleadings or depositions in
> counter affidavits to support the same.
349\. All the points for consideration of the President including the reasons
for the amendment as well as points of repugnancy ought to have been stated in
the proposal itself. However, in the present W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 214 of
531 case, the proposal dated 15th June, 2012 is completely silent on these
material aspects. Therefore, there is no evidence that the possible conflict
had been brought to the notice of the President before assent was obtained.
Consequently, the assent given by the President would not be the assent
required to be given under Article 239AA(3)(c).
At the same time, there is nothing to remotely suggest that assent was sought
in ‗general terms'.
350\. In the case in hand, the repugnancy between the Court Fees Act, 1870, a
Central legislation and the impugned Amendment by the Delhi Legislative
Assembly is accepted. We have noted above that under Article 239AA, the Delhi
Legislative Assembly merely legislating ―in respect of an earlier law‖ would
necessitate Presidential assent. In the present case the respondents have
noted that the proposed legislation was also repugnant to the ―earlier law‖
(Court Fees Act, 1870). In order to establish that the repugnant law received
the assent after due consideration of the President, the Government of NCT of
Delhi must therefore, show the material which was placed before the President
for consideration and that the repugnancy between the Central enactment and
the impugned amendment was pointed to the President. It must also be
established that such material has been actually considered by the President
before according assent.
351\. The factual background in the present case, so far as the
W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 215 of 531 procedure which was followed by the
respondents is concerned requires to be examined. In the counter affidavit
dated 6th September, 2012, the respondents have made the following disclosure:
> ―Pursuant to the advice of the Law and Justice Department, and taking into
> consideration that the Court Fees Act, 1870 is a Central Legislation, a
> request was made to the Secretary (Home), Government of India, for obtaining
> prior approval of the Central Government. The Ministry of Home Affairs
> examined the matter in consultation with the Ministry of Law and Justice and
> thereafter the approval was granted. On receipt of the approval, the bill
> was again placed before the Cabinet of Ministers and thereafter the
> Amendment Bill was introduced before the Assembly, which was then passed
> unanimously. The Bill became an Act only after it received Presidential
> Assent and the date of amendment was notified as 01.08.2012, after the
> approval of the Lt. Governor.‖
352\. It is stated that a letter dated 15th June, 2012 was sent from the
office of the Lt. Governor to the Ministry of Home Affairs. This letter dated
15th June, 2012 makes a reference to only three original copies of the Bill
authenticated by the Speaker of the Legislative Assembly of Delhi as having
been enclosed with it. It is argued by Mr. Chandhiok, learned Senior Counsel
that the communication dated 15th June, 2012 does not even request a
consideration of the matter by the President but merely seeks the assent of
the President.
353\. The material impact of the impugned legislation on the
W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 216 of 531 jurisdiction of this court was also not
pointed out.
354\. The submission on behalf of the respondents that a general or a broad
spectrum assent of the President was obtained in the instant case and that it
would meet the constitutional requirement of assent is erroneous.
355\. The respondent's contention that in the instant case, the President had
accorded general consent and therefore, it was wholly unnecessary to point out
repugnancy in the proposal seeking assent has to be rejected not only on the
basis of the specific plea to the contrary in the counter affidavit but also
in view of the binding position in law set out hereinabove. Even if it could
be held that in the instant case the assent had been sought and given in
general terms, such grant would not cure the legislation of the defects noted
above.
356\. As noted above, in (2002) 8 SCC 182, Kaiser-I-Hind Pvt. Ltd. v. National
Textile Corporation (Maharashtra North) Ltd. & Ors., it was held that the
Presidential assent was limited to overcoming the repugnancy only with respect
to the Transfer of Property Act and Presidency Small Causes Court Act and not
vis- à-vis the Public Premises Act, a Parliamentary enactment. It was
therefore, concluded that the Public Premises Act would prevail in a State so
far as the properties covered under the enactment were concerned.
357\. We have also noted above the finding of the Supreme Court
W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 217 of 531 in (1985) 3 SCC 661, Gram Panchayat of
Village Jamalpur v. Malwinder Singh that the President has to be apprised of
the reasons for seeking the assent. In the instant case, it is an admitted
position that the respondents did not point out the repugnancy qua the
Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 or the rules framed by the Delhi High
Court in exercise of powers thereunder to the President or why the amendment
to the court fees superseding the stipulations made in the Arbitration Act,
1996 was necessary and should be permitted to prevail in Delhi.
358\. In this background, the Presidential assent would not operate qua
repugnant provisions which were not placed before the President and to which
there is no assent at all in the eyes of law.
359\. The Presidential assent is stated to have been granted on the 4th of
June 2012 which was communicated to the Principal Secretary to the Lt.
Governor by way of letter dated 6th July, 2012.
360\. The original record produced before the court merely contains a rubber
stamp having been affixed to the effect that the President had granted assent
with her signatures.
361\. On receipt of the communication conveying the assent of the President,
the Bill was again placed before the Cabinet of Ministers and thereafter the
Amended Bill was passed by the Legislative Assembly. The date of the Amendment
was thereafter notified as the 1st of August 2012 after receipt of the
approval of the Lt. Governor.
W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 218 of 531
362\. There are therefore no constitutional or statutory provisions to support
the stand of the respondents. There is also no jurisprudence to do so either.
363\. It is argued on behalf of the petitioner that apart from the primary
submission that the relevant material was not placed before the President for
consideration. Therefore affixation of a rubber stamp of assent on which the
President had merely put her signatures shows the President was prevented from
a meaningful consideration of the relevant issues. It is contended that
relevant material was required to be placed before the President, the same was
required to be considered by the President before granting assent.
364\. It is thus apparent that all that was placed before the consideration of
the President was the draft Bill without even a statement explaining the
repugnancy or a clarification of how the amendment would amount to a
desideratum for the litigants and the system of justice operating in the NCT
of Delhi, the relevant matters which deserved the consideration of the
President.
365\. Even the Court Fees Act, 1870 itself was not placed before the
President. This would have enabled the President, before according her assent,
to peruse through the clear statement made by the legislature in the
‗Introduction' to the Act of 1870 and the Statement of Objects and Reasons for
the enactment of 1870 and how an increase in court fees was repressive on
general litigation.
W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 219 of 531 Nothing has been shown to us which
justified the need for the proposed amendments to the President or
demonstrated that the amendment did not impact, adversely or otherwise, the
constitutional rights of any person.
366\. The existing Court Fees Act, 1870 which would have enabled the President
to understand the existing statutory provisions and what was being proposed by
the Legislative Assembly was not sent to her. The respondents also failed to
draw attention of the President to the provisions of the Delhi High Court Act.
No circumstance warranting departure from the Central legislation in the
National Capital Region of Delhi was pointed out in the Presidential
reference. The President was also not given any relevant information about the
prevalent circumstances or the necessity for the amendment.
367\. Admittedly, in the instant case, the respondents have not placed the
prevalent conditions in Delhi before the President of India. No circumstance
which has been judicially and Constitutionally declared relevant and necessary
for Presidential assent qua a repugnancy between a Central enactment and
proposed State amendment legislation has been placed for consideration of the
President.
368\. We may note that the respondents did not forward even the reasons
advanced in the Sub-Committee report nor any supporting material forwarded to
the office of the President. It is, therefore, W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 220 of
531 evident that there was no material at all before the President; the
repugnancy between the existing statute and the amendment was not pointed out;
the local conditions and circumstances necessitating the 2012 legislative
amendment were not placed. In fact, the President had nothing at all for her
‗consideration'. The element of application of mind to relevant material is
completely absent. It is legally impermissible to accept that under the given
circumstances, the President was fully apprised of the need for an amendment
to the Court Fees Act and the effect that such an amendment would have on the
litigants, both of which, according to the Supreme Court, are essential for
the formation of the ‗consideration' of the President. The ‗Presidential
assent' has to be examined in this factual background and its impact so
construed.
369\. We therefore find substance in the submission of Mr. Chandhiok, learned
Senior Counsel that no demand for consideration of the President, in terms of
Article 239AA3(c) and the principles laid down in Kaiser-I-Hind Pvt.
Ltd.(supra), was made by the Government of NCT of Delhi. No material at all
was placed before the President. The communication by the Government of NCT of
Delhi did not even suggest that the matter requires consideration from the
aspect of repugnancy between a Central legislation and the proposed amendment
thereto at the instance of the Government of NCT of Delhi. There was no
material at all, let alone relevant material placed before the President.
W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 221 of 531
370\. Given the categorical stand of the respondents on affidavit, the
submission orally made before us that the respondents placed the proposed
amendment before the President only as there was a prior Central Law and not
because of a repugnancy is factually incorrect and legally untenable.
371\. In the absence of inviting the attention of the President to the
repugnancy, the submission that Presidential assent was obtained thereto is
erroneous and contrary to the constitutional scheme. If this submission of the
respondent was accepted, the concluding part of Article 239AA Clause 3(c)
proviso would be rendered otiose which is legally impermissible. The
respondents have therefore failed to abide by the legislative procedure
constitutionally mandated. The respondents have also not complied with
established essential pre-conditions for the Presidential Consideration and
assent under Article 239AA of the Constitution. Therefore, the Presidential
assent to the impugned legislation is insufficient to defeat the challenge
laid by the petitioners to the Court Fees (Delhi Amendment) Act, 2012.
(V) The legislative action is manifestly arbitrary and the legislation suffers
from substantive unreasonableness rendering it ultra vires of Article 14.
372\. It requires to be stated that even if it could be held that the Delhi
Legislative Assembly had the legislative competence to effect the impugned
amendment, the petitioners have pressed that the impugned legislation also
violates the equality clause under W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 222 of 531 Article
14 as well as the rights guaranteed under Articles 16 and 21 of the
Constitution. It is contended that the impugned law is an absolute barrier to
justice for a large segment of the population and for these reasons as well
cannot be sustained. We now examine these grounds of challenge under separate
headings in seriatim.
373\. It is contended that the increase in the present case appears to be
manifestly arbitrary and totally contrary to the objects and reasons of the
Court Fees Act, 1870 and is therefore violative of Article 14 of the
Constitution of India and liable to be quashed.
374\. We may point out that for the purposes of the discussion in the rest of
this judgment, it has been assumed that the Delhi Legislature is competent to
increase the charges.
375\. At the very outset, the respondent submitted that the impugned Amendment
Act of 2012 does not violate any fundamental right. In response to the
petitioner's assertion that certain parts of the Amendment Act violate
Articles 14 and 21, the respondents submitted that the court is not required
to go into each and every individual entry of court fees and ascertain the
rate with the work to be performed. Their contention is that rationalization
of court fees has been done in a manner to reduce court fees on small claims,
whereas the high value claims now attract an increase in court fees, such a
classification is not violative of Article 14. They contend that there was no
specific pleading regarding a violation of Article 14 in the writ petition,
and bereft of a W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 223 of 531 particularized plea, there
is no basis for the petitioner to maintain such action.
376\. Before examining the submission of the petitioner from the various
angles urged before us, we may set down Article 12, 13 and 14 in Part III of
the Constitution relevant to this consideration, which read as follows:-
> ―12. Definition.--
> In this Part, unless the context otherwise requires, "the State" includes
> the Government and Parliament of India and the Government and the
> Legislature of each of the States and all local or other authorities within
> the territory of India or under the control of the Government of India.
> 13\. Laws inconsistent with or in derogation of the fundamental rights.--
> (1) All laws in force in the territory of India immediately before the
> commencement of this Constitution, in so far as they are inconsistent with
> the provisions of this Part, shall, to the extent of such inconsistency, be
> void.
> (2) The State shall not make any law, which takes away or abridges the
> rights conferred by this Part and any law made in contravention of this
> clause shall, to the extent of the contravention, be void.
> (3) In this article, unless the context otherwise requires,--
(a) "law" includes any Ordinance, order, bye-law, rule, regulation,
notification, custom or usage having W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 224 of 531 in
the territory of India the force of law;
(b) "laws in force" includes laws passed or made by a Legislature or other
competent authority in the territory of India before the commencement of this
Constitution and not previously repealed, notwithstanding that any such law or
any part thereof may not be then in operation either at all or in particular
areas.
(4) Nothing in this article shall apply to any amendment of this Constitution
made under Article
368.]
14\. Equality before law.
The State shall not deny to any person equality before the law or the equal
protection of the laws within the territory of India.‖
377\. Referring to Article 13 of the Constitution of India, it is pointed out
that under clause 1 of Article 13, all laws in force before commencement of
the Constitution, to the extent of inconsistency with Part III (fundamental
rights) are void.
378\. Under clause 2 of Article 13, the States are prohibited from making any
law which takes away or abridges the rights conferred by Part III and further
clearly declares that any law which is made in contravention of this clause,
shall to the extent of the contravention, be void.
379\. Article 14 unequivocally declares that the State shall not deny to any
person equality before the law or equal protection of W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page
225 of 531 the laws within.
380\. The petitioners have submitted that a challenge to a legislation by way
of a writ petition is maintainable on the ground of legislative arbitrariness
and that the legislation results in violation of rights of the people under
Article 14. Expanding on the meaning of the expression ‗legislative
arbitrariness', Mr. Chandhiok, learned Senior Counsel has drawn support from
the pronouncement of the Supreme Court reported at (2011) 8 SCC 737, State of
Tamil Nadu v. K. Shyam Sunder & Ors. In this case, the respondents had
successfully challenged provisions of the Tamil Nadu Uniform System of School
Education (Amendment) Act, 2011, a State law, before the High Court of
Judicature at Madras. Right to education was a fundamental right under Article
21A of the Constitution. The State Act was prior to the Right of Children to
Free and Compulsory Education Act, 2009 enacted by the Parliament.
381\. Amongst others, the challenge rested on the plea that the questions of
mala fide and colourable exercise of power cannot be alleged against the
legislature and yet the High Court had recorded that the 2011 Amendment Act
was a product of ‗arbitrary exercise of power'.
382\. The Supreme Court noted (para 18) that the enactment attempted to create
an egalitarian society removing disparity amongst individuals using education
as the most effective means.
W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 226 of 531
383\. So far as the contention that the legislation was effected in bad faith
is concerned, the Supreme Court considered the same under the heading of
‗colourable legislation' and observed as follows:-
> "II. Colourable legislation
> 36\. In State of Punjab v. Gurdial Singh [(1980) 2 SCC 471 : AIR 1980 SC
> 319] , this Court held that when power is exercised in bad faith to attain
> ends beyond the sanctioned purposes of power by simulation or pretension of
> gaining a legitimate goal, it is called colourable exercise of power. The
> action becomes bad where the true object is to reach an end different from
> the one for which the power is entrusted, guided by an extraneous
> consideration, whether good or bad but irrelevant to the entrustment. When
> the custodian of power is influenced in exercise of its power by
> considerations outside those for promotion of which the power is vested, the
> action becomes bad for the reason that power has not been exercised bona
> fide for the end design.
37\. It has consistently been held by this Court that the doctrine of mala
fides does not involve any question of bona fide or mala fide on the part of
legislature as in such a case, the Court is concerned to a limited issue of
competence of the particular legislature to enact a particular law. If the
legislature is competent to pass a particular enactment, the motives which
impelled it to an act are really irrelevant. On the other hand, if the
legislature lacks competence, the question of motive does not arrive at all.
Therefore, whether a statute is constitutional or not is, thus, always a
question of power of the legislature to enact that statute. Motive of the
legislature while enacting a statute is inconsequential: ―Malice or motive is
beside W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 227 of 531 the point, and it is not
permissible to suggest parliamentary incompetence on the score of mala fides.‖
The legislature, as a body, cannot be accused of having passed a law for an
extraneous purpose. This kind of ―transferred malice‖ is unknown in the field
of legislation. (SeeK.C. Gajapati Narayan Deo v. State of Orissa [AIR 1953 SC
375] , STO v. Ajit Mills Ltd. [(1977) 4 SCC 98 : 1977 SCC (Tax) 536 : AIR 1977
SC 2279] , SCC p. 108, para 16, K. Nagaraj v. State of A.P. [(1985) 1 SCC 523
: 1985 SCC (L&S) 280 : AIR 1985 SC 551] , Welfare Assn., A.R.P. v. Ranjit P.
Gohil [(2003) 9 SCC 358 : AIR 2003 SC 1266] and State of Kerala v. Peoples
Union for Civil Liberties [(2009) 8 SCC 46] .)‖
384\. For the purposes of the present case, we may note that so far as the
consideration of legislative competence was concerned, in para 38, the Supreme
Court held that the legislative competence can be adjudged with reference to
Articles 245 and 246 of the Constitution read with the three Lists given in
the 7th Schedule as well as with reference to Article 13(2) of the
Constitution which prohibits the State from making any law which takes away or
abridges the rights conferred by Part III of the Constitution and provides
that any law made in contravention of this clause shall, to the extent of the
contravention be void.
385\. In paras 50 to 53 of State of Tamil Nadu v. K. Shyam Sunder & Ors.
(supra), the court discussed the meaning and constituents of the expression
‗legislative arbitrariness' which deserve to be extracted in extenso and read
as follows:-
W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 228 of 531 ―50. In Ajay Hasia and Ors. v. Khalid
Mujib Sehravardi and Ors. AIR 1981 SC 487, this Court held that Article 14
strikes at arbitrariness because an action that is arbitrary, must necessarily
involve negation of equality. Whenever therefore, there is arbitrariness in
State action, whether it be of the legislature or of the executive, Article 14
immediately springs into action and strikes down such State action. (See also:
E.P. Royappa v. State of Tamil Nadu and Anr. : AIR 1974 SC 555; and Smt.
Meneka Gandhi v. Union of India and Anr. : AIR 1978 SC 597).
51\. In M/s. Sharma Transport rep. by D.P. Sharma v. Government of A.P. and
Ors. : AIR 2002 SC 322, this Court defined arbitrariness observing that the
party has to satisfy that the action was not reasonable and was manifestly
arbitrary. The expression 'arbitrarily' means; act done in an unreasonable
manner, as fixed or done capriciously or at pleasure without adequate
determining principle, not founded in the nature of things, non- rational, not
done or acting according to reason or judgment, depending on the will alone.
52\. In Bombay Dyeing and Manufacturing Co.
Ltd. (3) v. Bombay Environmental Action Group and Ors.: AIR 2006 SC 1489, this
Court held that:
> ―205. Arbitrariness on the part of the legislature so as to make the
> legislation violative of Article 14 of the Constitution should ordinarily be
> manifest arbitrariness.‖
53\. In cases of Bidhannagar (Salt Lake) Welfare Assn. v. Central Valuation
Board and Ors.: AIR 2007 SC 2276; and Grand Kakatiya Sheraton Hotel and Towers
Employees and Workers Union v.
W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 229 of 531 Srinivasa Resorts Limited and Ors. : AIR
2009 SC 2337, this Court held that a law cannot be declared ultra vires on the
ground of hardship but can be done so on the ground of total unreasonableness.
The legislation can be questioned as arbitrary and ultra vires under Article
14. However, to declare an Act ultra vires under Article 14, the Court must be
satisfied in respect of substantive unreasonableness in the statute itself.‖
(Emphasis supplied)
386\. Our attention has been drawn to the pronouncement of the Supreme Court
in (2011) 9 SCC 286, Andhra Pradesh Dairy Development Corporation Federation
v. B. Narasimha Reddy & Ors. The court was required to examine as to whether
the list prepared under Article 15(4) had been properly prepared or not. The
Supreme Court has clearly held that the doctrine of arbitrariness applies to
the legislature as well and that in order to be rendered ultra vires, the
action of the legislature should be manifestly arbitrary and be a case of
substantive unreasonableness. On the scope of challenge to legislative action
on these grounds, the Supreme Court has observed as follows:-
> ―29. It is a settled legal proposition that Article 14 of the Constitution
> strikes at arbitrariness because an action that is arbitrary, must
> necessarily involve negation of equality. This doctrine of arbitrariness is
> not restricted only to executive actions, but also applies to legislature.
> Thus, a party has to satisfy that the action was reasonable, not done in
> unreasonable manner or capriciously or at pleasure without adequate
> determining principle, rationale, and has been done according to reason or
> judgment, and W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 230 of 531 certainly does not depend
> on the will alone. However, the action of legislature, violative of Article
> 14 of the Constitution, should ordinarily be manifestly arbitrary. There
> must be a case of substantive unreasonableness in the statute itself for
> declaring the act ultra vires of Article 14 of the Constitution. (Vide: Ajay
> Hasia etc. v. Khalid Mujib Sehravardi and Ors. etc. AIR 1981 SC 487;
> Reliance Airport Developers (P) Ltd. v. Airports Authority of India and Ors.
> : (2006) 10 SCC 1; Bidhannagar (Salt Lake) Welfare Assn. v. Central
> Valuation Board and Ors. : AIR 2007 SC 2276; Grand Kakatiya Sheraton Hotel
> and Towers Employees and Workers Union v. Srinivasa Resorts Limited and Ors.
> : AIR 2009 SC 2337; and State of Tamil Nadu and Ors. v. K. Shyam Sunder and
> Ors. : 2011 8 SCALE 474.
> 30\. In State of Andhra Pradesh and Anr. v. P. Sagar : AIR 1968 SC 1379,
> this Court examined the case as to whether the list of backward classes, for
> the purpose of Article 15(4) of the Constitution has been prepared properly,
> and after examining the material on record came to the conclusion that there
> was nothing on record to show that the Government had followed the criteria
> laid down by this Court while preparing the list of other backward classes.
> The Court observed as under:
> ―9. ... Honesty of purpose of those who prepared and published the list was
> not and is not challenged, but the validity of a law which apparently
> infringes the fundamental rights of citizens cannot be upheld merely because
> the law maker was satisfied that what he did was right or that he believes
> that he acted in manner consistent with the constitutional guarantees of the
> citizen. The test of the W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 231 of 531 validity of a
> law alleged to infringe the fundamental rights of a citizen or any act done
> in execution of that law lies not in the belief of the maker of the law or
> of the person executing the law, but in the demonstration by evidence and
> argument before the Courts that the guaranteed right is not infringed.‖
> 31\. In Indra Sawhney II v. Union of India : AIR 2000 SC 498, while
> considering a similar issue regarding preparing a list of creamy layer OBCs,
> this Court held that legislative declarations on facts are not beyond
> judicial scrutiny in the constitutional context of Articles 14 and 16 of the
> Constitution, for the reason that a conclusive declaration could not be
> permissible so as to defeat a fundamental right.
> xxx xxx xxx
> 34\. In State of Gujarat and Anr. v. Raman Lal Keshav Lal Soni and Ors. :
> AIR 1984 SC 161, this Court while dealing with a similar issue observed as
> under:
> ―52. ...The legislature is undoubtedly competent to legislate with
> retrospective effect to take away or impair any vested right acquired under
> existing laws but since the laws are made under a written Constitution, and
> have to conform to the do's and don'ts of the Constitution neither
> prospective nor retrospective laws can be made so as to contravene
> Fundamental Rights. The law must satisfy the requirements of the
> Constitution today taking into account the accrued or acquired rights of the
> parties today.
                   ...‖
                                (Emphasis by us)
    W.P.(C)No.4770/2012                                     page 232 of 531
> 387\. Placing reliance on K.C. Gajapati Narayan Deo and Ors. v.
> State of Orissa (1954 SCR 1), before us, the respondents have submitted that
> when the constitutionality of a legislation is being considered, factors
> such as the reasons behind the enactment and motive of the legislature are
> irrelevant. The test for the constitutional validity of a statute is always
> a question of power -
whether the legislature was competent to pass the impugned enactment. It is
contended that there cannot be any colourable exercise on the part of the
legislature nor can any mala-fide be attributed to it while exercising
legislative functions. The parameters of judicial review while examining the
constitutionality of a legislation on grounds of arbitrariness have been laid
down in the judicial precedents noted above and need no repetition.
388\. So far as a challenge laid to legislative action on the grounds of
malafide is concerned, in the Constitutional Bench pronouncement in Paras
153(1) and 434(7) of S. R. Bommai (supra) it has been held that the validity
of a proclamation issued by the President is judicially reviewable, and that
it can be struck down by the Supreme Court or the High Court if it is found to
be malafide or based on wholly irrelevant or extraneous grounds. Also, the
burden is on the Union Government to prove that relevant material did exist.
The submission of the respondents thus is contrary to the settled legal
position noted above. However, it need detain us no further as this is not the
petitioner's case in the present writ petition.
W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 233 of 531
389\. An issue with regard to the scope of power of the constitutional court
to conduct judicial review of constitutional and valid legislative action
arose before the Supreme Court in Brij Mohan Lal v. Union of India &Ors.
(supra) On the strength of Rule 7 Chapter III, Part VI of the Bar Council of
India Rules, the retired members of the Custom, Excise & Service Tax Appellate
Tribunal (for short the CESTAT) were not permitted to practice before the same
Tribunal. The validity of the said Rules was upheld placing reliance on the
prior pronouncement reported at (2012) 4 SCC 653, N.K. Bajpai v. UOI. On the
scope of judicial review into a constitutional challenge into legislation and
delegated legislation, the following observations are important:
> ―116. This question, in somewhat similar circumstances, came up for
> consideration of this Court in N.K. Bajpai case when the retired members of
> the Customs, Excise and Service Tax Appellate Tribunal (for short ―Cestat‖)
> were not permitted to practise before the same Tribunal on the strength of
> Rule 7, Chapter III, Part VI of the Bar Council of India Rules. This Court
> not only upheld the validity of the said Rules, but also held that this did
> not amount to an absolute and unreasonable bar on the right to practise of
> the past members of the Tribunal. Upon an objective analysis of the
> principles stated therein, this Court held that except where a challenge is
> made on the grounds of legislative incompetence or the restriction imposed
> is ex facie unreasonable, arbitrary and violative of Part III of the
> Constitution, the restriction would be held to be valid and enforceable.
           xxx                 xxx                           xxx
    W.P.(C)No.4770/2012                                      page 234 of 531
> 119\. The power of judicial review to examine the validity of a legislation
> falls within a very limited compass. It is treated by the Courts with
> greater restraint and on a much higher pedestal than examination of the
> correctness or validity of State policies. ....‖ (Emphasis by us)
390\. It needs no further elaboration therefore, that the doctrine of
arbitrariness applies to legislative action; that action of the legislature if
manifestly arbitrary and suffers from substantive unreasonableness. Such
arbitrariness necessarily negates equality. The legislative action would thus
be ultra vires of Article 14 of the Constitution and would be so declared.
391\. It is also a well settled principle that exercise of power, whether
legislative or administrative, will be set aside if there is a manifest error
in the exercise of such power or the exercise of the power is manifestly
arbitrary. [Reference: (2003) 4 SCC 579 (para
13), Indian Railway Construction Company Limited v. Ajay Kumar and; (1988) 4
SCC 59, State of UP v. Renu Sagar Power Co.]
392\. We usefully notice the principles on which unreasonableness' would be
construed as well as onus on the State. The following observations of the
Supreme Court in AIR 1986 SC 1205, Municipal Corporation of the City of
Ahmedabad v. Jan Mohd. Usmanbhai are illuminating:-
W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 235 of 531 ―15. Before proceeding to deal with the
points urged on behalf of the appellants it will be appropriate to refer to
the well-established principles in the construction of the constitutional
provisions. When the validity of a law placing restriction on the exercise of
a fundamental right in Article 19(1)(g) is challenged, the onus of proving to
the satisfaction of the Court that the restriction is reasonable lies upon the
State. ... Imposition of restriction on the exercise of a fundamental right
may be in the form of control or prohibition. But when the exercise of a
fundamental right is prohibited, the burden of proving that a total ban on the
exercise of the right alone may ensure the maintenance of the interest of
general public lies heavily upon the State. In this background of legal
position the appellants have to establish that the restriction put on the
fundamental right of the respondents to carry on their trade or business in
beef was a reasonable one. The Court must in considering the validity of the
impugned law imposing prohibition on the carrying on of a business or a
profession attempt an evaluation of its direct and immediate impact upon the
fundamental rights of the citizens affected thereby and the larger public
interest sought to be ensured in the light of the object sought to be
achieved, the necessity to restrict the citizen's freedom, the inherent
pernicious nature of the act prohibited or its capacity or tendency to be
harmful to the general public, the possibility of achieving the object by
imposing a less drastic restraint, and in the absence of exceptional
situations such as the prevalence of a state of emergency, national or local,
or the necessity to maintain necessary supplies or the necessity to stop
activities inherently dangerous, the existence of a machinery to satisfy the
administrative authority that a case for imposing restriction is made out or a
less drastic restriction may ensure the object intended to be achieved.
    W.P.(C)No.4770/2012                                     page 236 of 531
            xxx                  xxx                        xxx
20\. The tests of reasonableness have to be viewed in the context of the
issues which faced the legislature. In the construction of such laws and in
judging their validity, courts must approach the problem from the point of
view of furthering the social interest which it is the purpose of the
legislation to promote. They are not in these matters functioning in vacuo but
as part of society which is trying, by the enacted law, to solve its problems
and furthering the moral and material progress of the community as a whole.
(See Joti Prasad v. Union Territory of Delhi 1961 S.C.R. 1601) If the
expression 'in the interest of general public' is of wide import comprising
public order, public security and public morals, it cannot be said that the
standing orders closing the slaughter houses on seven days is not in the
interest of general public.‖
393\. In 1977 (1) SCC 697, Assistant Controller of Customs v. Charan Das
Malhotra, and (1984) (3) SCC 65, Manick Chand Paul v. Union of India., the
court has indicated that the correct approach of the court had to be a strict
one as ―...greater the restriction, the more the need for strict scrutiny by
the Courts.‖
394\. The statute under examination and the challenge by us has to be examined
from these important perspectives.
395\. The petitioners' challenge to the Court Fee (Delhi Amendment) Act, 2012
on the ground that it violates Article 14 of the Constitution has to be
examined on these binding principles. In order to illustrate the irrationality
and the arbitrariness of the action of the respondents as well as the
absurdity of the result, Mr. W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 237 of 531 Chandhiok has
taken us through some of the entries in the impugned schedule. It is urged
that most of the entries in the amended Schedule are much beyond the ten times
increase stated in the counter affidavit. We are conscious of the limitations
on the court conducting an item wise examination of court fee challenges.
However in the instant case, the respondents have primarily amended the
Schedule. In order to conclude that the impugned legislation is not arbitrary
and is reasonable, it is essential to examine the same. For reasons of
avoiding prolixity, we are adverting to only few entries in ―Schedule I‖ to
the Court Fees (Delhi Amendment) Act, 2012 which provides for ―Ad Valorem
Fees‖ and their impact. These are considered in seriatim hereafter:
    (i)    Suits for recovery of money; counter claims by defendants
           in any suit
                    Entry                  Present    Earlier         Fee
                                           fee        (Rs.)
     1.   Plaint,    written   When the
          statement,           amount
          pleading, a set      or value
          off             or   of
          counterclaim or      subject-
          memorandum of        matter in
          appeal        (not   dispute
          otherwise            is-
          provided       for   (i) Upto    Two        Forty      eight
          under any of         fifty       percentum rupees      eight
          these Schedules      thousand    on    such naye paise
          of the Court Fees    rupees;     amount or
          Act, 1870 (7 of                  value   or
          1870) or to cross                one
    W.P.(C)No.4770/2012                                   page 238 of 531
           objection                       thousand
          presented to any                rupees
          Civil or Revenue                whichever
          Court      except               is more;
          those mentioned (ii) Fifty      Three         On Rs.4 lakh
          in Section 8.     thousand      percentum     Rs.6248.00 and
                            one           on     such   on
                            rupees        amount or     Rs.5,000.00 or
                            upto          value;        part thereof at
                            twenty                      Rs.48.80 p
                            lakh                        (0.976 percent)
                            rupees;
                            (iii)         Four
                            Above         percentum
                            twenty        on     such
                            lakh          amount or
                            rupees.       value.
396\. As per the earlier schedule, the plaintiff was required to pay court fee
of Rs.6248.00 for a suit claim up to Rs.4,00,000/-. Thereafter he was required
to pay court fee at the rate of Rs.48.80 for every Rs.5,000/- or part thereof.
Thus, the higher the amount of the claim, the percentage of court fee payable
would fall.
It has been pointed out to us that as per the earlier court fee schedule, the
court fee was equivalent to only about 1% of the value of the subject matter.
397\. In the new schedule, the court fee has been increased by almost 400%.
After the amendment, 4% of court fee is payable on claims above rupees twenty
lakhs. As a result, the larger the value W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 239 of 531
of the claim, the larger is the amount of court fee payable thereon. There is
no capping on the maximum court fee. Further no court fee was required to be
affixed on the written statement unless a counter claim, or a set-off was
prayed by the defendant. Court fees thereon were computable on the same basis
as on a plaint.
(ii) Suits for possession of immovable property
398\. Let us examine the court fee position on a claim for possession of
immovable property:
                 Entry             Present fee         Earlier      Fee
                                                       (Rs.)
     2.    Plaint in suit for      A fee of one-       A fee of one-
           possession      under   half the amount     half the amount
           section 6 of the        prescribed in the   prescribed    in
           Specific Relief Act,    foregoing scale     the    foregoing
           1963 (47 of 1963)       (vide Article 1)    scale.
399\. So far as the valuation of such relief is concerned, a suit for recovery
of possession of property is valued at the current market value as on the date
of its filing. It will vary if it is tenanted property.
400\. It is therefore, evident that the court fee payable on a suit for
possession is also on the same increasing basis as a suit for recovery of
money.
401\. Mr. Chandhiok, learned Senior Counsel has placed before us three
notifications whereby the respondents notified the land circle rates
applicable in Delhi and the revisions effected thereto keeping
W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 240 of 531 in view the prevailing conditions. In the
notification dated 18 th July, 2007, the respondents had categorized
localities in Delhi into category A, B, etc. for prescribing land rates as
circle rates. So far as land in category ‗A' is concerned, the respondents had
prescribed circle rate of Rs.43,000/- per sq. mt. This rate was enhanced by
the notification dated 4th February, 2011 to Rs.86000/- per sq. mt. A third
upward revision has been affected by the notification dated 15th November,
2011 whereby the minimum land rate in residential use of land in category ‗A'
locality has been prescribed at Rs.2,15,000/- per sq. mt. It is contended that
given the prescribed scale of the notified land circle rates and the revisions
effected thereto, the valuation of a claim of the relief of property in a suit
would have automatically increased proportionately.
As a result of the above, enhanced court fee would have automatically been
recovered on property claims which were filed in court even as per the
existing court fee regime. It is contended that for this reason, the
enhancement in the prescription of the court fee rates so far as claims for
property are concerned was unwarranted and that the respondents have
arbitrarily amended the court fee prescription completely ignoring this
important circumstance.
(iii) Probate
402\. Similar is the position so far as probates are concerned. The earlier
and present position is as follows:
    W.P.(C)No.4770/2012                                      page 241 of 531
                  Entry                     Present fee Earlier    Fee
                                                       (Rs.)
     11. Probate of a      When the        Two and Two per centum
         Will or Letters   amount or       one-half    on such amount
         of                value of the    per centum or value.
         Administration    property in     on     such
         with or without   respect of      amount or
         Will annexed.     which the       value.
                           grant     of
                           probate or
                           letters    is
                           made
                           exceeds one
                           lakh rupees,
                           but does not
                           exceed ten
                           lakh rupees.
                           When such       Three and     Two and one-
                           amount or       one-quarter   half per centum
                           value           per centum    on such amount
                           exceeds ten     on     such   or value.
                           lakh rupees,    amount or
                           but does not    value.
                           exceed fifty
                           lakh rupees.
                           When such       Four   per
                           amount or       centum on
                           value           such
                           exceeds         amount or
                           fifty   lakh    value.
                           rupees.                       Three      per
                                                         centum on such
                           Provided                      amount      or
                           that when                     value.
                           after    the
                           grant of a
    W.P.(C)No.4770/2012                                   page 242 of 531
                           certificate
                          under Part
                          X of the
                          Indian
                          succession
                          Act     1925
                          (39 of 1925)
                          or under the
                          Regulation
                          of         the
                          Bombay
                          Code No.8
                          of 1827 in
                          respect of
                          any
                          property
                          included in
                          an estate, a
                          grant       of
                          probate or
                          letters     of
                          administrati
                          on is made
                          in respect of
                          the     same
                          estate, the
                          fee payable
                          in respect of
                          the     latter
                          grant shall
                          be reduced
                          by         the
                          amount of
                          the fee paid
                          in respect of
                          the former
                          grant.
    W.P.(C)No.4770/2012                    page 243 of 531
403\. The prejudice to a legatee is exacerbated by the fact that in the city
of Delhi, probate is not mandatorily required. Therefore, a beneficiary under
a Will may not seek probate immediately upon the death of a Testator because
there may not be any immediate dispute between the beneficiaries with regard
to the devolution of interest in the properties of the original testator.
However, a dispute may arise amongst the third or fourth generation of the
beneficiaries. Or say, between a beneficiary and a tenant of the testator, who
may then be compelled to seek probate. Such petitioners would be required to
pay court fee at the then prevalent market rates and that too of amounts which
are way beyond the benefits acquired by their predecessors (who were the
beneficiaries under the Will or of the subsequent successions.)
(iv) Suits for partition
404\. We may now examine the court fee position so far as a suit for partition
is concerned which reads thus:
                    Entry                   Present fee        Earlier   Fee
                                                               (Rs.)
     4.    Suit      for   Filled before    Ad-valorem as      Fee levied as
           Partition of    Civil Court      per Article 1 of   per the share
           immoveable      including        this Schedule      in        the
           joint           High Court       calculated in      property.
           property        at         its   accordance
                           original         with     market
                           side, (as per    value of the
                           pecuniary        property
                           jurisdiction).   subject       to
                                            minimum
                                            court-fee     of
    W.P.(C)No.4770/2012                                         page 244 of 531
                                        one thousand
                                       rupees.
405\. The plaintiff has to additionally pay stamp duty under Entry 25 of
Schedule I of the Indian Stamp Act, 1899 while drawing up of the partition
decree. It is noteworthy that the respondents have prescribed payment of ad
valorem court fee on a claim of partition which is to be calculated on the
market value of the entire property, partition whereof has been sought. The
litigant therefore pays twice for the same subject matter - once, as the ad
valorem court fee on the plaint and then, a second time as stamp duty on the
decree.
406\. Prior to the amendment, if the plaintiff was in possession of immovable
property, he was required to pay court fee of Rs.19.50 only. By virtue of the
amendment, the plaintiff has to pay court fee at the time of institution of
the suit on the value of the entire property, notwithstanding that he is in
part possession thereof.
407\. Mr. Harish Salve, learned Senior Counsel for the respondents has sought
to justify this levy on the plea that in a partition suit every party is a
plaintiff. This may be tested on a hypothetical fact situation where a person
may be having, say, only 1/70th share in the property. By virtue of the
impugned amendment, he is now required to affix court fee equivalent to the
market value of the entire property which is subject matter of the suit and
not his share alone, as was the past requirement. There W.P.(C)No.4770/2012
page 245 of 531 may be several instances where the value of the share of the
plaintiff may be less than the court fee which he is therefore required to
affix. How many litigants would balk at the court fee amount they would need
to pay to enforce their rights in family properties! Where would unemployed
women, without any source of income, harness the resources to enforce their
rights in family or their father's properties?
408\. If such requirement was to be based on the respondent's contention that
in such situation every person is a plaintiff, then the legislation would have
mandated payment of court fee by all the shareholders of the property and not
by the plaintiff alone. The court fee levy on a suit for partition has
therefore a discriminatory impact inasmuch as the plaintiff is made to pay the
court fee on the share of the defendant as well. There is no basis or
rationale for such imposition.
(v) Intellectual property litigation
409\. The position becomes quite startling when the prescription of the
impugned legislation on intellectual property litigation is examined. The
legislature has now provided as follows:-
                Details                     Present       Earlier      Fee
                                            fee           (Rs.)
     30. Any suit or             When       Five          According     to
         petition   under        filed      hundred       the amount at
         the intellectual        before   a rupees        which the relief
         Property Rights.        Civil                    sought is valued
                                 Judge.                   in the plaint or
                                                          fixed court fee
    W.P.(C)No.4770/2012                                     page 246 of 531
                               When     One                where          no
                              filed    thousand           consequential
                              before a rupees.            relief is sought.
                              District
                              Judge.
                              When       Five
                              filed      thousand
                              before the rupees.
                              High
                              Court.
410\. Under Section 8 of the Suits Valuation Act, 1887, on suits which do not
fall under Section 7, paragraphs (v), (vi) and (ix) and paragraph (x), clause
(d) of the Court Fees Act, 1870, court fees are payable ad valorem under the
Court Fees Acts, 1870. The value of the suit claim determinable for
computation of court fee and for the purposes of jurisdiction has to be the
same. However, by the Court Fees Amendment Act, 2012, the respondents have
prescribed fixed court fee for any suit or petition under the Intellectual
Property Act.
(vi) Suits for rendition of accounts
411\. The petitioners have contended that the position qua suits for rendition
of accounts is arbitrary and unconstitutional as would be apparent from the
following:-
                     Entry                      Present        Earlier Fee
                                                  fee            (Rs.)
    W.P.(C)No.4770/2012                                     page 247 of 531
      32. Any Suit Under The        When       One           As            per
         Partnership    Act,       filed      hundred       valuation fixed
         1932 (9 Of 1932)          before   a or     one    by the plaintiff
         For Rendition Of          Civil      percentum     in     suit   for
         Accounts And / Or         Judge.     of      the   rendition      of
         Partition Or For                     valuation     accounts and in
         Any Relief Under                     of the suit   the suit for
         The         Limited                  whichever     partition
         Liability                            is more;      according      to
         Partnership    Act,       When       Two           value of share
         2008.                     filed      hundred       in       property
                                   before a fifty      or   when not in
                                   District   one           possession and
                                   Judge.     percentum     fixed court fee
                                              of      the   when           in
                                              valuation     possession.
                                              of the suit
                                              whichever
                                              is more;
                                   When       Five
                                   filed      hundred
                                   before the or     one
                                   High       percentum
                                   Court.     of      the
                                              valuation
                                              of the suit
                                              whichever
                                              is more.
No rationale is forthcoming for the same. Our discussion on the entries
relating to suit for recovery of money and possession apply in full force to
this prescription as well.
W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 248 of 531
(vii) Application for review of a judgment and execution of a judgment
412\. Our attention has been drawn to the following court fee prescription in
the impugned amendment on an application for review of a judgment as well as
an execution petition seeking enforcement of any judgment/order/decree:
            Entry                  Present fee     Earlier     Fee
                                                   (Rs.)
    5. Application for review      The         fee One-half of the
of judgment, if presented leviable on the fee leviable on on of after the
ninetieth plaint or the plaint or day from the date of the memorandum
memorandum of decree. of appeal. appeal.
413\. Interestingly, while the court fee prescribed on a petition for review
of judgment is placed in Schedule I providing for ad- valorem fees, the
petition seeking execution is placed in Schedule II which provides ―Fixed
Fees‖. However the following discussion would show as to how this is also
incorrect:
    (viii) Execution
              Entry                       Present      Earlier Fee
                                          fee          (Rs.)
    16.   Execution        (a) When       Two          Rs.1.25p
          petition seeking filed before   hundred
          enforcement of a Civil          fifty
    W.P.(C)No.4770/2012                                   page 249 of 531
            any judgment, Judge;              rupees
           order or decree
           passed by any
           court.          (b) When          Five        Rs.1.25p
                           filed before      hundred
                           a District        rupees.
                           Judge;
                            (c) When         One         Rs.2.65p
                            filed before     thousand
                            the High         rupees.
                            Court;)
414\. The above illustrates that charges for enforcement of the decree have
been enhanced by more than five hundred times.
Applications under the criminal justice system
415\. Let us examine the court fee prescription under the Amendment Act, 2012
so far as some petitions/applications in the criminal justice system are
concerned:
(ix) Petitions under Section 482 of the Cr.P.C.
            Entry                   Present fee         Earlier Fee
                                                        (Rs.)
    19. Petition under Section Two hundred              Rs.2.65p
        482 of the Code of and fifty
        Criminal     Procedure, rupees.
        1973 (2 of 1974) before
        the High Court.
416\. In every judgment passed by the Supreme Court, it has repeatedly been
reiterated that administration of justice is a function of the State and levy
of court fee is confined to the W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 250 of 531
adjudication in civil matters. The Law Commission Reports are strident and
unequivocal on this. Prior to the amendment, a notional court fee of Rs.2.65
was being charged on petitions filed before the High Court under Section 482
of the Code of Criminal Procedure which have now been increased by virtue of
the impugned amendment to Rs.250, which is an increase of about 100 times. The
position qua a criminal revision petition filed under Section 397 or 401 of
the Cr.P.C. is no different as would be evident from the following:
    (x)    Criminal revisions
           Entry                             Present   Earlier fee
                                             fee       (Rs.)
    20.   Criminal revision     when filed   One       Rs.2.65p
          petition    under     before the   hundred
          Section 397 of        High         rupees.
          the    Code    of     Court;
          Criminal
          Procedure, 1973       when filed   Fifty
          (2 of 1974)           before a     rupees.
                                Session
                                Judge
    21.   Criminal                           One       Rs.2.65p
          Revision Petition                  hundred
          under Section 401                  rupees.
          of the Code of
          Criminal
          Procedure, 1973
          (2    of   1974),
          before the High
          Court.
    W.P.(C)No.4770/2012                                  page 251 of 531
417\. So far as bail applications are concerned, the impugned legislation
provides thus:
    (xi)   Bail applications
           Entry                             Present   Earlier       Fee
                                             fee       (Rs.)
     22. Bail application      When filed    Two       Rs.2.65p
         under Section         before the    hundred
         437 or Section        High court.   fifty
         438 of the                          rupees.
         Code          of      When filed    One       Rs.1.50p
         Criminal              before   a    hundred
         Procedure,            Sessions      rupees.
         1973 (2 of            Judge
         1974)
                               When filed Fifty        Rs.1.25p
                               before      a rupees.
                               Metropolitan
                               Magistrate.
418\. It is noteworthy that Section 438 of the Cr.P.C. is concerned with a
petition seeking anticipatory bail. The power to grant such anticipatory bail
is conferred on either the High Courts or to the Sessions Court alone. Such
petitions are never filed before the Magistrate. Yet by the impugned amendment
to the Schedule, the respondents have proposed court fee on such petitions if
filed before the Magistrate as well!
419\. Similarly, a petition under Section 437 never goes before the Sessions
Court or the High Court. Yet court fee has been prescribed for affixation in
the amended Schedule. Interestingly, a W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 252 of 531
petition under Section 439 of the Cr.P.C. may be filed either before the High
court or before the Sessions Court. The respondents have prescribed no court
fee on such petitions!
420\. Our attention has been drawn to the Section 19 of the Court Fees Act
which provides the substantive legal provision which provides certain
exemptions from court fee. Sub - Section (xvii) of Section 19 of Court Fees
Act stipulates that a petition by a prisoner or other person in duress or
under restraint of any court or its officer is exempt from fixation of court
fee. By virtue of Entry 22 in the Schedule II of the impugned legislation
noticed hereinabove, court fee has been prescribed even on petitions by
persons who are in custody. It is noteworthy that no amendment has been
effected to Section 19 of the Court Fees Act.
Proceedings under Section 138 of the Negotiable Instruments Act, 1881
421\. We may also examine the amendment effected qua proceedings under Section
138 of the Negotiable Instruments Act. It is prescribed as follows:
Complaint under Section 138 of the Negotiable Instruments Act, 1881 Entry
Present fee Earlier Fee (Rs.)
3\. Complaint under Same as Rs.1.25p section 138 of the prescribed in the
Negotiable foregoing scale Instruments Act, (vide Article I)
W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 253 of 531 1881 (26 of 1881) calculated in terms with
value of the instrument.
422\. Mr. Harish Salve, learned Senior Counsel has defended this amendment and
the court fee which is now payable on a complaint under Section 138 of the
Negotiable Instruments Act urging that proceedings under Section 138 of the
Negotiable Instruments Act have been held by the Supreme Court to be
substantive proceedings for recovery of money and, therefore, the demand for
ad valorem court fee is justified. In support of this submission, reliance has
been placed on the pronouncement of the Supreme Court reported at (2012) 1 SCC
260 titled R. Vijayan v. Baby & Anr.
423\. A perusal of the judgment in R. Vijayan v. Baby (supra) would show that
in this case, the learned trial court had found the accused guilty of an
offence punishable under Section 138 of the Negotiable Instruments Act. She
was sentenced to pay a fine of Rs.2,000/- and in default to undergo
imprisonment for one month. The convict was also directed to pay Rs. 20,000/-
as compensation to the complainant and in default to undergo simple
imprisonment for three months. The High Court did not uphold the direction for
payment of the compensation under Section 357(3) of the Code of Criminal
Procedure taking the view that once the statutorily prescribed sentence
permitted imposition of only fine, the power under Section 357(3) of the Code
of Criminal Procedure could not W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 254 of 531 be invoked
for directing payment of compensation.
424\. In R. Vijayan (supra), the court was concerned with the inconsistency
between Chapter 17 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 and Section 138 of
the Negotiable Instrument Act. In para 17, the Court noted that ―though a
complaint under Section 138 of the Act is in regard to criminal liability for
the offence of dishonoring the cheque and not for the recovery of the cheque
amount (which strictly speaking, has to be enforced by a civil suit), in
practice once the criminal complaint is lodged under Section 138 of the Act, a
civil suit is seldom filed to recover the amount of the cheque. This is
because of the provision enabling the court to levy a fine linked to the
cheque amount and the usual direction in such cases is for payment as
compensation, the cheque amount, as loss incurred by the complainant on
account of dishonor of cheque, under Section 357(1)(b) of the Code and the
provision for compounding the offences under Section 138 of the Act.‖ In para
18 the Court observed that ―18. ...In those cases where the discretion to
direct payment of compensation is not exercised, it causes considerable
difficulty to the complainant, as invariably, by the time the criminal case is
decided, the limitation for filing civil cases would have expired.‖
425\. The court also discussed the difficulty fixed with regard to making of
directions for compensation under Section 357 of the Code and has
categorically observed as follows:-
W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 255 of 531 ―19. We are conscious of the fact that
proceedings under Section 138 of the Act cannot be treated as civil suits for
recovery of the cheque amount with interest.
xxx xxx xxx ...While it is not the duty of criminal courts to ensure that
successful complainants get the cheque amount also, it is their duty to have
uniformity and consistency, with other courts dealing with similar cases.‖
426\. We find that there is no statement in the pronouncement in R. Vijayan
(supra) to the effect that Section 138 proceedings are in the nature of civil
suit.
427\. It is also noteworthy that a cheque may not necessarily have been issued
in a commercial transaction.
428\. So far as the nature of proceedings under Section 138 of the Negotiable
Instruments Act is concerned, the same may be tested on a hypothetical fact
situation. Let us take the case of a Delhi resident suffering from cancer and
critically ill. His unscrupulous private employer gave him retiral benefits
including the gratuity by way of a cheque. Such cheque has bounced. He has no
source of income and no money to pay for his bare necessities, including his
treatment. This person certainly cannot afford to pay the court fee while he
needs the cheque amount critically in order to meet the expenses of the
treatment of his disease as well as to support his poor family and himself. He
could seek initiation of the remedy W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 256 of 531 under
Section 138 of the Instruments of Negotiable Act or/and opt for filing a suit
for recovery against his employer. In either event, because of the impugned
amendment to the Court Fees Act, he is now first required to pay ad valorem
court fee for filing even the complaint under Section 138 of the Negotiable
Instruments Act. The only other alternative available in law, as also proposed
by the respondents in the written submissions, is that he could seek to sue in
forma pauperis. This option would be available only if he invoked the civil
remedy of filing a suit. Order XXXI A of the C.P.C. (which permits in forma
pauperis proceedings) does not apply to proceedings under Section 138 of the
Negotiable Instruments Act. And then too, he could do so, only if he met the
stringent prescribed conditions and qualified the indigency barrier after
protracted proceedings.
429\. The important issue here is that, would such terminally ill person have
the time to await the indigency adjudication required by law before he could
seek to establish the legality and genuineness of his claim? Thus the court
fee regime put in place by the amendment completely prohibits the legal remedy
to him.
Petitions under the Motor Vehicles Act
430\. The following position qua claims under the Motor Vehicles Act is also
noteworthy:
          Entry                               Present     Earlier fee
                                                fee           (Rs.)
     28. Claim            petition Filed     One         Rs.1.25p
    W.P.(C)No.4770/2012                                    page 257 of 531
            under the Motor before       a hundred
           Vehicles      Act, Motor       rupees.
           1988 (59 of 1988) Accidents
                              Claims
                              Tribunal.
431\. The court fee on claim petitions filed before the Motor Accident Claims
Tribunal has been increased manifold. Most of the persons seeking redressal in
these cases are victims or dependants of road accidents who may have lost
their only bread earner and be hard pressed for funds. Payment of Rs.100/- may
be well beyond their means, Court fee is not the only expenditure which the
litigant has to bear. Lawyers' fees, typing/stenography charges etc. may be
prohibitive and may add to the woes of the petitioners.
Proceedings under Article 226 of the Constitution of India
432\. Our attention has also been drawn to the requirement under the amended
Schedule to the Court Fees Act whereby court fee of Rs.100 has been prescribed
on writ petitions filed under Article 226 of the Constitution of India. As
against this, the respondents have mandated payment of court fee of Rs.250/-
on each application which is to accompany the writ petition. It is trite that
an application would seek interim orders which are applicable only during the
pendency of the writ petition. Petitioners also enclose formal applications
such as those for exemption from filing certified copies. Therefore, the
respondents' submission that lesser court fee has been demanded on a smaller
claim is without any W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 258 of 531 basis. There is
strength in the petitioner's submissions that the levy has been so fixed so as
to generate revenue.
Suit for maintenance and annuity
433\. According to Section 7(ii) of the Court Fees Act, 1870, the amount of
court fee payable in a suit for maintenance and annuity or any other sum
payable periodically is according to the value of the subject matter of the
suit and such value is statutorily deemed to be ten times the amount claimed
to be payable for one year. Let us visualize the plight of a housewife who has
been thrown out of the matrimonial house with her children by husband and in-
laws and is compelled to seek relief of maintenance and restoration of her
belongings as well as to enforce their rights to a residence under Sections 18
and 20 of the Hindu Maintenance and Adoption Act, 1956 for her children and
for herself. She would be required to pay ten times of the amount of her
claimed yearly maintenance for the relief of maintenance alone, which is the
court fee required to be affixed by a person seeking such relief. This, as
experience shows, is not an isolated incidence.
434\. As a home maker, such women would not have any source of income. In the
larger segment of middle class society, certainly in the lower middle class
society, such a person would have no savings. If she did, the control would
more often than not, be with her husband. Where would she garner the resources
needed to enforce basic human rights to her children and herself? And even if
she had the resources, how would she make the critical choice
W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 259 of 531 between spending it on the necessities of
food, shelter, education etc. of all of them or spending it in purchasing
court fee, engaging counsel etc. - all essential for filing a case? Is the
alternative of seeking a waiver from payment of court fee as a pauper
efficacious? How would she exist whilst adjudication into the pauper claim was
being undertaken? Are these not aspects which are relevant and material while
prescribing a court fee regime? The record does not disclose any need having
been paid to these aspects.
435\. The above discussion elucidates the exacerbated gender impact of the
impugned legislation, which in our view is by itself sufficient to render such
provisions unconstitutional. By virtue of the impugned amendment, the
respondents have thus prescribed enhancement of the court fee for almost every
petition filed under the Code of Civil Procedure.
Court fee regime on petitions under the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996
and otherwise
436\. Appearing for writ petitioner in W.P.(C)No.456/2013, Ms. Neelam Rathore,
learned counsel for the petitioner points out that a substantive challenge has
been laid in this writ petition to the amendment effected to items 8(a)(iii)
and (iv) as well as 8(b) of the Schedule II of the impugned amended Court Fees
Act.
437\. So far as W.P.(C)No.456/2013, Umesh Kapoor v. Government of NCT of Delhi
is concerned, it is pointed out that W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 260 of 531 the
writ petition relates to an arbitral award which is in the nature of a family
award and invokes distribution of shares in family properties and businesses
between the father and the sons. No monetary amount has been awarded. The
submission is that as a result only fixed court fee would be payable thereon.
438\. For the purposes of convenience, the comparison of relevant extract of
the prescriptions before and after the court fee amendment are extracted
hereunder:-
> SCHEDULE II (AS APPLICABLE TO THE NATIONAL CAPITAL TERRITORY OF DELHI) FIXED
> FEES Entry Present fee Earlier Fee (Rs.) 8(a) (iii) for When made One One
> thousand seeking before thousand rupees enforcement (i) a Civil rupees or
> one of an award Judge; percentum of under the amount Section 36; awarded in
> the Award, whichever is more.
                           (ii)       a
                           District
                           Judge;
                        (iii)   the
                        High Court
     8(a) (iv)      for When made One            One
          setting aside before      thousand     thousand
> the arbitral (i) a Civil rupees or one rupees W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 261
> of 531 award under Judge; percentum of section 34; the amount
> (ii) a awarded, District whichever is Judge; more.
> (iii) the High Court
439\. In order to deal with the petitioner's challenge, it is necessary to
examine the historical perspective of the court fee regime which applied to
arbitration proceedings. The applications for appointment of an Arbitrator as
well as for those challenging or enforcing an arbitral award were originally
dealt in Sections 326 and 327 of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1859 (C.P.C. of
1859) respectively.
440\. Section 326 of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1859 provided that ―...when
any persons shall, by an instrument in writing, agree that any differences
between them, or any of them shall, be referred to the arbitration of any
person or persons named in the agreement, or to be appointed by any Court
having jurisdiction in the matter to which it relates, the application may be
made by the parties thereto, or any of them, that the agreement be filed in
such Court. On such application being made, the Court shall direct such notice
to be given to any of the parties to the agreement, other than the applicants,
as it may think necessary, requiring such parties to show cause, within a time
to be specified, why the agreement W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 262 of 531 should
not be filed.‖ The statute provided that the application:
―...shall be written on a stamp paper of one-fourth of the value prescribed
for plaints in suits, and shall be numbered and registered as a suit between
some or one of the parties interested, or claiming to be interested, as
plaintiffs or plaintiff, and the other, or others of them, as defendants or
defendants, if the application has been presented by all the parties, or if
otherwise, between the applicant as plaintiff as the other parties as
defendants.‖
441\. So far as the application for filing an arbitral award in Court was
concerned, the same was prescribed under Section 327 of the C.P.C. of 1859. It
was required that such application ―shall be written on the stamp paper
required for petitions to the Court where a stamp is required for petitions by
any law for the time being in force‖. This requirement was also repealed by
the Court Fees Act, 1870.
442\. The Court Fees Act, 1870 (Act VII of 1870) amended Sections 326 and 327
of the C.P.C., 1859 and repealed payment of the court fee based on the value
of the relief. Clause 17(iv) and Clause 18 of Schedule II to the Court Fees
Act, 1870 prescribed fixed fee on a petition or appeal for setting aside the
award and for reference to arbitration under Section 326 of the C.P.C. It
would appear that this was in consonance with the Statement of Objects and
Reasons of the Court Fees Act, 1870 as noted above. Thus Sections 326 and 327
of the C.P.C. stood amended to this extent.
W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 263 of 531
443\. So far as the Court Fees Act, 1870 was concerned, it prescribed the
following court fee payable on an application seeking setting aside of the
award as well as an application under Section 326 of the C.P.C.:
Entry Present Fee
17\. Plaint or memorandum of appeal in each of the following suits:-
     (i) xxx
     (ii) xxx
     (iii) xxx
     (iv) to set aside an award                    Ten rupees.
18\. Application under Section 326 of the Code Ten rupees. of Civil Procedure
444\. A new Code of Civil Procedure was enacted in the year 1908, which
contained Section 89, Section 104(1)(a) to (f) and Schedule II dealing with
arbitration. These provisions inter alia enabled parties to civil suits to
seek reference of disputes for arbitration, empowered the courts to refer the
dispute for arbitration and have control over arbitral proceedings and to
adjudicate on the validity of awards. Fixed court fees continued to be payable
as per Court Fees Act, 1870.
445\. Thereafter a substantive enactment, the Arbitration Act, 1940 was
enacted. The above provisions of the C.P.C. dealing with arbitration were
repealed. Arbitration Act, 1940 essentially contained provisions which were
similar to the earlier statute for reference of disputes to arbitration. Power
was conferred on courts to interfere with the functioning of arbitration at
all stages as well W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 264 of 531 as the power to
interfere with awards passed by the arbitrators.
446\. An important amendment was effectuated by the Code of Civil Procedure
(Amendment) Act, 1999 to the C.P.C., 1908. So far as the present case is
concerned, reference requires to be made to the legislative intent in
incorporating amendments to two pivotal provisions in Section 89 of the C.P.C.
and the Rules 1A to 1C to Order X. These provisions rendered it incumbent upon
the court, where there appeared to be elements of settlement, to call upon the
parties at their option to agree for one or the other alternative methods of
dispute resolution including arbitration. Thereby a new impetus was given to
alternative dispute resolution methods which included arbitration at its core.
447\. The year 1996 saw a drastic change in the statutory provisions governing
arbitration. The Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 was enacted repealing
the Arbitration Act, 1940 with the legislative intent of reducing court
interference in arbitral proceedings at the three critical stages of pre and
post reference stages as well as the post award stages. The scope of challenge
to arbitral awards was limited to a few grounds.
448\. Ms. Neelam Rathore, learned counsel appearing for petitioners in
W.P.(C)No.456/2013 has urged at some length that challenge to the arbitral
award is provided by way of a petition under Section 34 of the Arbitration
Act, 1940 which is to be adjudicated by a summary procedure. The petitioners
have urged that the spirit of the Arbitration Act, 1996, is further manifested
by W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 265 of 531 the provisions of Section 89 in 1999 in
the C.P.C., both aimed at promoting alternative dispute resolution mechanisms.
449\. It is pointed out that on a petition for setting aside the arbitration
award under Section 34, the respondents have now prescribed court fee of
Rs.1,000/- or 1% of the amount awarded whichever is more.
450\. The petitioners contend that the court fee which has been levied on
proceedings arising out of arbitration would work as a strong disincentive for
invoking this alternate dispute resolution mechanism. The levy of fees under
the impugned court fee amendment is exorbitantly high, repressive and defeats
the resort to arbitration as an efficacious alternative dispute redressal
mechanism. It is further pointed out that as per the Statement of Objects and
Reasons to the Court Fees Act, 1870, arbitration proceedings should be
subjected to fixed fees only and not to the ad-valorem fixed in the impugned
legislation.
451\. The petitioner contends that the challenge by way of objections to an
arbitral award, is not to the amount awarded. An unsuccessful party would
challenge the award to extent of the claim which has not been awarded. There
is no logic or basis for fixation of the court fee based on the amount
awarded. In fact such prescription supports the petitioner's contention that
there is no correlation between the services rendered and the court fee
levied. The only object of the amendment appears to be raising the general
W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 266 of 531 revenue of the Government which is
impermissible.
452\. It is also pointed out that in case the arbitration award does not make
a mention of any amount but relates to immovable property, then court fee of
only Rs.1,000/- would be payable irrespective of the value of the property
awarded in view of the provisions of item 8(a)(iv) noticed hereinabove. There
is also uncertainty with regard to a case where there are not only claims but
counter claims as well.
453\. Under the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 and the rules framed
thereunder, charges of Rs.15,000 are payable for invoking the jurisdiction of
the court. These provisions have not been amended and remain in force.
Therefore, apart from this amount payable for invoking the jurisdiction, court
fee of Rs.1,000 or 1% becomes payable under Entry 8(a) of the Arbitration and
Conciliation Act, 1996.
454\. It is noteworthy that the arbitration award is made on stamp paper on
which stamp duty of 0.001% is payable.
Objections to the Award
455\. The petitioner makes a grievance with regard to the court fee levy on a
petition under Section 34 for setting aside an arbitral award. The relevant
prescription (earlier and now) reads as follows:-
    W.P.(C)No.4770/2012                                  page 267 of 531
             Entry                         Present       Earlier  Fee
                                          fee           (Rs.)
     8(a) (iv)       for   When made      One           One thousand
          setting aside    before         thousand      rupees
          the arbitral     (i) a Civil    rupees or
          award under      Judge;         one
          section 34;                     percentum
                           (ii)       a   of      the
                           District       amount
                           Judge;         awarded,
                                          whichever
                           (iii)   the    is more.
                           High Court
456\. Thus for making of the objections to the award as well as filing of an
appeal party is required to pay Rs.1,000/- or 1%, whichever is more, for
filing of the appeal in addition to the stamp duty- unlimited court fee.
Execution of awards
457\. Mr. Chandhiok, learned Senior Counsel appearing for the petitioners has
drawn our attention to two other aspects of the impugned court fee
prescription. It is pointed out that enforcement of an arbitral award is
provided under Section 36 of the Act of 1996\.
458\. The above narration would show that enforcement of a domestic arbitral
award under Section 36 of Part I is subject to ad valorem fee under Clause
8(a)(iii). Foreign awards for the purposes of enforcement under Sections 49
and 58 of Part II of the W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 268 of 531 Arbitration Act,
1996 are treated differently for the purposes of levy of court fees by the
impugned legislation as against the enforcement of domestic awards.
459\. Section 36 prescribes that where the time for making an application for
setting aside the award under Section 34 has expired, or such application
having been made, and it has been refused, the award shall be enforced under
the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 in the same manner as if the decree of the
court. It is pointed out that such ‗decree' would be covered within the
meaning of the expression in Section 2 sub- section (2) of the C.P.C. and
would become executable under Order 21 of the C.P.C.
460\. The nature of the decree would show that no real distinction can be
drawn between a decree by the civil court or the duly stamped arbitral award.
461\. We find that however for the execution of a decree under Section 96 of
the Code of Civil Procedure, fixed court fee has been prescribed by the
legislature under Item 16 of Schedule II.
462\. An arbitral award has been legally equated to a decree of the civil
court. However, under Item 8(a) Sub-Rule 3, on an application seeking
enforcement of an arbitral award under Section 36 (i.e., domestic award), the
court fee of Rs.1000/- or 1% of the amount awarded in the award, whichever is
more, is prescribed. The respondents do not even venture an explanation. What
could possibly be the explanation for such prescription, given the
W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 269 of 531 legislative object of the Arbitration Act,
1996 to promote recourse to dispute resolution by arbitration!
463\. Therefore, the court fee stipulation in Clause 8(a)(iii) and
(iv) of the amended Schedule II to the Amendment Act of payment of ad valorem
fees on the ‗amount awarded in the award' results in a peculiar uncertainty
apart from resulting in an irreconcilable situation. This is best illustrated
by an instance where the arbitrator holds on some part amount claimed in
favour of the claimant. The claimant wishes to challenge the award to the
extent that it rejects the other claims. As per the amended Schedule, the
claimant would still have to pay court fees on the amount awarded.
464\. Similarly in a case where there are rival claims and counter claims; the
determination of the ‗amount awarded in the award' would be highly debatable
and uncertain.
465\. Interestingly, the prescription under Clause (iii) and (iv) of payment
of court fees is not on the value of the subject matter in dispute. Court fees
is payable on the basis of the amount awarded.
466\. The court fee prescription for an execution petition seeking enforcement
of an arbitral award therefore also suffers from the vice of arbitrariness.
Enforcement of Foreign Awards
467\. We find that so far as foreign awards are concerned, Section 49 of the
Arbitration and Conciliation Act provides that if the court
W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 270 of 531 is satisfied that a foreign award is
enforceable under Chapter I of Part II of the enactment, the award shall be
deemed to be decree of that court.
468\. The conditions for enforcement of foreign award have been prescribed
under Section 48 of the Act of 1996. Mr. Chandhiok, learned Senior Counsel has
urged at length that in enforcement of the foreign award, the court has to
first determine whether award is executable in the courts in Delhi or not. It
is noteworthy that despite the judicial inquiry mandated for ascertaining
enforceability of the award and the judicial time expended on this
adjudication and then the enforcement, no court fee at all has been stipulated
so far as enforcement of foreign awards are concerned. Foreign awards would be
primarily concerned with commercial affairs and disputes. Non fixation of the
court fee on the foreign awards is opposed to the stated spirit, intendment
and purpose of the amendment of the Schedule to the Court Fees Arbitration Act
of increased revenue collection.
469\. There is substance therefore, in the petitioner's contention that for
the purposes of enforcement, foreign awards are treated differently under
Sections 49 and 58 of Part II of the Arbitration Act, 1996 for the purposes of
levy and court fees by the impugned legislation as against the enforcement of
domestic awards. Whereas the respondents have stipulated ad valorem court fee
so far as enforcement of domestic awards under Section 36 of the Arbitration
Act, 1996 is concerned, fixed court fee is prescribed W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page
271 of 531 under Court Fees Act for enforcement of foreign awards. The
respondents do not point out any object which they sought to achieve. There is
no intelligible reason or purpose in this distinction between foreign and
domestic awards. This discriminatory classification suffers from the vice of
arbitrariness and is therefore, not sustainable. The differentia drawn by the
impugned legislation has no rationale to the object of the Court Fees Act and
is therefore, completely impermissible classification under Article 14 of the
Constitution.
Arbitral Appeals
470\. So far as an appeal preferred under Section 37 of the Arbitration and
Conciliation Act, 1996, it is prescribed as under:
           Entry                            Present     Earlier        Fee
                                            fee         (Rs.)
     8(b) Memorandum                        One         Rs.5.25p
          of     appeal                     thousand
          under Section                     rupees or
          37;                               one
                                            percentum
                                            of      the
                                            amount
                                            awarded,
                                            whichever
                                            is more.
471\. A further grievance is made by the petitioner with regard to the court
fee which is liable to be paid on the memo of an appeal under Section 37 of
the Arbitration Act against interim orders W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 272 of 531
under Item 8(b) of Schedule II. It is pointed out that court fee of Rs.1,000/-
or 1% of the amount awarded has been fixed. Thus ad valorem court fee is
prescribed for appeals under Section 37 against orders passed under Section 34
of the Arbitration Act, 1996\.
472\. Learned Senior Counsel would contend that there is no justification as
such for fixation of ad valorem court fee in appeals from interim order in
arbitration cases and the respondents should have reasonably accorded them the
same treatment as appeals against interim order in civil cases.
473\. We find that for appeals against orders under Section 104 and Order
XLIII of the C.P.C., fixed fee is payable under Clause 23 of the Court Fees
Act. It cannot be disputed that appeals, whether under Section 37 of the
Arbitration Act, 1996 or under Section 104, Order XLIII of the C.P.C. are
concerned, the adjudication is summary in nature. This aspect has been
completely ignored while imposing the exorbitant levy under Clause 8(b) of
Schedule II of the Court Fees Act. Even appeals are treated differently from
appeals under Section 37 of Part I relating to domestic awards. Arbitral
awards under Part II are all commercial awards. There is no rationale or
intelligible differentia which could distinguish domestic from foreign awards.
There is certainly no differentia which has any relation to the object of the
Court Fees Act which the legislature could be seeking to achieve. For this
reason, the classification between two kinds of awards is completely
W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 273 of 531 impermissible classification.
474\. It is noteworthy that the Court Fees Act is a procedural enactment
whereas the Arbitration and Conciliation Act is a special statute stipulating
the statutory regime so far as arbitration is concerned. It is trite that a
procedural enactment cannot override the provisions of substantive legal
provisions.
475\. Our attention has also been drawn to Section 6 of the Court Fees Act,
1870 pursuant whereto the two Schedules to the enactment have been drawn up.
Interestingly Schedule I is captioned as ―Ad valorem fees‖ whereas Schedule II
is captioned as ―Fixed Fees‖. Under Schedule II, all the items carry fixed
court fee except, inexplicably, the matters relating to arbitration as noticed
hereinabove on which ad valorem court fee is affixed.
476\. In AIR 1925 ALL DB, Chunni Lal & Ors. v. Charan Lal Lalman & Ors.; AIR
1926 Cal 638, Altap Ali v. Jamsur Ali; AIR 1932 Cal 346, In re Anandalal
Chakrabutty & Ors., it was held that the heading of chapters and schedules in
an enactment are only guides for the construction and cannot override the
express provisions under those headings. The Schedule to the Act neither
imposes nor confers any power to impose court fees. However placing ad valorem
levies in the Schedule prescribing fixed fees certainly suggests complete non-
application of mind in prescribing the impugned amendments to the statute.
W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 274 of 531 (VI) Court fee is recovered only from a
litigant: the concept of a ―user fee‖
477\. The respondents have argued that the amount of court fee is recovered
only from litigants. And that the litigants are those who benefit from the
justice system. No recovery is effected from non- users of the system! This
submission is to be noted only for its rejection.
478\. It is noteworthy that there is another extremely important dimension to
this issue. Before the Supreme Court also, only the submission that benefits
of the litigation do not necessarily enure proportionally to the party who has
paid the court fee or filed the case has been made. What has never been
pointed out is the very pertinent fact that the benefits of the litigation do
not stop at the parties to the lis alone. A judicial precedent binds
consideration of the same issue in other cases. The benefits of adjudication
may percolate to the entire society- those who are neither a party to the
litigation nor have paid court fee.
479\. This very issue has been the subject matter of judicial consideration in
other jurisdiction as well. In a decision of the Supreme Court of Canada
reported at 2012 BCSC 748, Vilardell v. Dunham, Mr. Justice McEwan rejected a
narrow view of courts as a mechanism of last resort:
> ―On a more basic level, the [state's] characterization of citizens as
> ―users‖ who choose to come to court, does not reflect the reality of how the
> courts work.
> W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 275 of 531 Every individual in society may quite
> unexpectedly require resort to the courts. This is much more a function of
> circumstance, than of choice, either for claimants and, more obviously, for
> defendants. A more accurate picture of courts' ―use‖ was given in Pleau at
> para. 22:
> In respect to the criteria, and notwithstanding the respondent's assertion
> there is no compulsion to access the court, it is clear there is the
> "practical compulsion" referred to by Justice Major. Citizens wronged, or
> believing themselves to have been wronged, or denied, or believing
> themselves to have been denied rights to which they are entitled, and
> whether the alleged transgressor is another citizen or the state itself,
> apart from self help remedies, will see little alternative than to seek to
> have the judicial component of our Constitution affirm their rights. Self
> help remedies are unacceptable, and therefore there is the practical
> compulsion to seek redress in the courts. The respondent's stated position
> that a litigant makes a choice to go to court and therefore there is no
> compulsion, fails to recognize the inherent right, and in some cases need,
> for all of us to seek redress and relief.
> Although private resolution models have been developed, and provide a
> valuable forum for resolving certain types of disputes, they cannot provide
> remedies in cases involving fundamental rights and freedoms. In respect to
> accessing the courts, there is a practical and real ―compulsion.‖ Viewed
> from a more positive ―civic‖ perspective, all those who seek legal redress
> in court at least implicitly make an affirmative act of faith in the
> W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 276 of 531 principles and consequences of self-
> government, and perform a positive act of citizenship by electing to submit
> to the authority of the law. On the mundane level of even the most ordinary
> kind of domestic or civil disagreement, participation enriches democratic
> governance (as Resnick and Curtis suggest), and enriches and extends the law
> itself. Every day in the courts of British Columbia the names of people
> whose cases are long over live on in courtrooms as shorthand for one legal
> proposition or another. Every day the cases of those who have come to court
> in the past inform advice given to those who choose to settle, or to accept
> as already decided some aspect of their own claim. In this way virtually
> every case makes a contribution, actual or potential, to the development of
> the law, or to the advice which resolves other cases.‖
480\. The court went on to decry the application of market rationale to court
fees:
> ―In a culture where almost everything is for sale it is evident that notions
> borrowed from the marketplace have come to influence the paradigms of
> government. But the premium a democratic society puts on inclusiveness,
> equality and citizen participation cannot be fulfilled in a society that
> sees citizens as customers or consumers. The fewer things a community shares
> in common, the more money matters, and the more difference there is between
> those of modest means and those who are well off....
The characterization of the unique features of the courts - a focus on
individual, discrete encounters with the law - as ―services‖ provided to
―users‖ commodifies justice and runs a foul of its constitutional duty to
support the courts. The legislative branch of government cannot purport
W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 277 of 531 to ―sell‖ or ration the services of the
judicial branch without creating an impermissible hierarchy between the two.
It cannot interpose itself between the courts and those who seek access
\- what the [state] calls ―striking a balance‖ - without interfering with the
courts' ability to serve all those who require its assistance, not only those
who can afford the government's impositions.
Similarly, the government cannot lawfully use its control over funding to
impede the judicial branch from fulfilling its essence as an accessible forum
for the development of the law. It is by means of the vote and by means of
access to the courts that a state maintains its status as a democracy. A state
that limits the right of individuals to call it to account by economic or
bureaucratic pressures, because it lacks the commitment to fund the judiciary,
inhibits a core democratic function. A court that is not available to a
significant segment of the public because another branch of government stands
in its way is a court whose independence is compromised.‖ (Emphasis by us)
481\. The Judicial Conference of the United States in the ‗Long Range Plan'
suggested by it has unequivocally recognized federal courts as being the
indispensable forum for protecting rights which should obtain funding
primarily through general appropriations, and not through ‗user fees'. In this
regard, the JCUS has stated thus:
> ―Federal courts are an indispensable forum for the protection of individual
> constitutional rights; their costs are properly borne by all citizens.
Unlike other governmental operations such as W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 278 of
531 national parks, for which substantial funding through user fees may be
appropriate, the mission of federal courts could not be performed if users
were denied access because of an inability to pay reasonable user fees.‖ ―At
least three reasons support continued reliance on general appropriations
instead of user fees. First, given that the frequency of federal court filings
can vary substantially from year to year, economic uncertainty about the
amount of revenue that can be raised annually through user fees makes user
fees an unreliable and, therefore, undesirable source of funding. Second, with
that uncertainty, constant fee adjustments might be necessary in order to
sustain ongoing judicial programs. Finally, and most importantly, litigants
should not be so burdened with fees as to effectively eliminate the access of
some low and moderate income users to our federal forum.‖ (Emphasis supplied)
482\. The Australian Law Reforms Commission (ALRC) submitted a report titled
‗Managing Justice: A review of the Federal Civil Justice System' (Report
No.89). In para 4.1 of chapter 4 on legal costs, the ALRC has pointed out that
full cost recovery is not pursued because ―the judicial system has a key role
in the democratic system of government which goes well beyond the resolution
of individual disputes, encompassing progressive development of the law,
providing the check on executive authority and protecting human rights.‖ (Ref:
189th Report of Law Commission)
483\. The Australian Law Reforms Commission (ALRC) had W.P.(C)No.4770/2012
page 279 of 531 explained that it was difficult to correlate payments received
from users of the court system to the services provided by the courts because
―it is difficult to conceptualise who the users of the service are: whether
respondents or applicants, either of whom may benefit from the outcome. There
are community benefits in the effective operation of the court system and in
precedents created by individual disputes. There are also practical
difficulties in developing a court fee structure that reflects the actual
costs of the services provided and takes into account the complexity and cost
of different matters‖. (Noted in the 189th Law Commission Report)
484\. The benefits of accessing the courts for redressal of private claims or
invoking public remedies flow way beyond the litigants who are before the
courts. The benefits trickle into the community, as well as the larger canvass
of the nation.
485\. The provision of a robust justice dispensation system is akin to the
provision of a strong national defence mechanism, which is provided for as a
necessity, even though its benefits do not enure to individual citizens. The
presence of a strong army, navy, air force guarding our borders from
intrusions inculcates a deep sense of security and comfort. It encourages
healthy economic activity within and across notional borders. It ensures and
enables healthy developmental activities.
486\. It would not be wrong to say that just as national defence, access to
justice is a public good. No distinction can therefore, be W.P.(C)No.4770/2012
page 280 of 531 made between actual and potential users of the justice system.
Every individual derives satisfaction from the mere fact that they can seek
justice, if a need arises. Those who actually happen to use the justice
system, are compelled to do so on account of circumstances beyond their
control. Certainly nobody opts for a legal problem so as to access the justice
system. Therefore, the distinction sought to be made by the respondents
between actual and potential users of the justice system is arbitrary. It is
certainly without any factual or legal basis or justification, oblivious of
the constitutional mandate and the hard social and economic categories and
classes prevalent in our society.
487\. The Nobel Laureate Ronald Coase (1960) has argued that in a world with
zero transaction costs, assignment and enforcement of rights will result in
efficient outcomes. The Government policy should therefore aim at reducing
transaction costs as high transaction costs will make the enforcement of
rights costly and lead to inefficiencies. For example, a person may not buy a
house even if it is profitable for him to do so if it will be very costly to
enforce the person's right over the house after he has bought it. [Ref: Ronald
H. Coase, ―The Problem of Social Cost‖, Journal of Law and Economics, 3, pp
1-44 (1960)].
It is evident that ensuring a healthy administration of justice system is
essential for economic activity and growth as well. It ushers in a unique
confidence in the community and ensures stability in industrial, commercial
and personal relationships.
W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 281 of 531
488\. The only conclusion therefore is that the availability of an efficient
justice dispensation system which would actually have an effect of creating an
enabling environment which would nurture important economic activity and
development. It definitely encourages peace in the community. This aspect has
never been placed before the court examining the challenges aforenoticed. It
has been completely ignored by the respondents.
489\. Individual and social disputes are brought into the public domain by
accessing the justice dispensation system. This augments an enabling
environment in which the community grows. Similarly, when criminal activity is
brought to book, it results in social and community benefit.
490\. Everybody who is desirous of living in a just and lawful society
benefits from adjudication therefore, the institution responsible for
maintaining a lawful environment must pay for the creation and maintenance of
justice delivery system.
491\. The notion of ―user pays‖ in the context of court fee creates a simile
of marketing so far as access to justice is concerned. Judgments impact even
those who were not parties to litigation. Typically, a judgment may have huge
externalities therefore, the notion that one who asks for the service or
benefits therefrom, pays the court fee is a misconception.
492\. As per the constitutional scheme administration of justice is one of the
pillars on which the entire edifice of a constitutional W.P.(C)No.4770/2012
page 282 of 531 order and a democratic society rests.
493\. Administration of justice and provision of a platform where people can,
inter alia, seek redressal of wrongs, reliefs against violations of
constitutional rights, prosecution of criminals cannot be compared to
rendering of a mere ―service‖ in the conventional sense. To reduce it to a
mere service for which citizens can be charged would be incorrect and
impermissible. It has no comparison at all to rendering services in the sense
of, say, housekeeping or security or repairing of vehicles, electrical
equipment etc. Given the nature of the rights involved, an examination of
court fees and administration of justice therefore as a mere service, or an
evaluation of whether the levy of court fee is a ‗fee' or tax' alone, is to
fall into a deep error.
494\. As a corollary, it could be pressed that just as the cost of creating
and maintaining the national defence mechanisms, hospitals, educational
facilities, infrastructure as roads etc., the cost of creating and maintaining
the justice system should be funded by a general tax as ever one stands to
benefit from very, irrespective of whether a person actually uses the system
or not. Cost recovery of the expenditure on the judiciary if effected, has to
be minimal. The recovery by levy of court fee as a percentage of the value of
the claim (or amount awarded by an arbitral award) without a maximum, results
in recovery of an amount which totally disproportionate to and has no nexus or
relation to the costs incurred by the respondents for a service.
W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 283 of 531
495\. It was observed by a Constitution Bench of Supreme Court in AIR 1955 SC
661, Bengal Immunity Co. Ltd. v. State of Bihar that if there is any hardship,
it is for the legislature to amend the legislation and that the court cannot
be called upon to discard the cardinal rule of interpretation for the purposes
of mitigating such hardship. In Civil Appeals No. 2133-34/2004, Rohitash Kumar
& Ors. v. Om Prakash Sharma & Ors., the expression ―dura lex sed lex‖ that is
to say that ―the law is hard but it is the law‖ was used which sums up the
position.
496\. It is therefore well settled that hardship to parties alone would not be
sufficient to the Court Fees (Delhi Amendment) Act, 2012\.
497\. In (1989) Supp 1 SCC 696, P.M. Ashwathanarayana Setty v. State of
Karnataka, the Supreme Court was considering a challenge to court fee in the
States of Karnataka and Rajasthan which was where the court fee could be
nearly 10% of the value of the subject matter. The Supreme Court had made the
following important observations:-
> ―72. What emerges from the foregoing discussion is that when a broad and
> general correlation between the totality of the fee on the one hand and the
> totality of the expenses of the services on the other is established, the
> levy will not fail in its essential character of a fee on the ground alone
> that the measure of its distribution on the persons of incidence is
> disproportionate to the actual services obtainable by them. The argument
> that where the levy, in an individual case, far exceeds the maximum value,
> in W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 284 of 531 terms of money, of the services that
> could at all be possible, then, qua that contributor, the correlation breaks
> down is a subtle and attractive argument. ...The test is on the
> comprehensive level of the value of the totality of the services, set-off
> against the totality of the receipts. If the character of the 'fee' is thus
> established, the vagaries in its distribution amongst the class, do not
> detract from the concept of 'fee' as such, though a wholly arbitrary
> distribution of the burden might violate other constitutional limitation.
> This idea that the test of the correlation is at the "aggregate" level and
> not at the "individual" level is expressed thus: (First Principles of Public
> Finance by De Marco, pp83) The fee must be equal, in the aggregate to the
> cost of production of the service. That is the aggregate amount of the fees
> which the State collects from individual consumers must equal the aggregate
> expenses of production.‖
498\. On the same aspect, the reasoning of the court in (1995) 1 SCC 104, D.C.
Bhatia & Ors. v. Union of India & Anr. also sheds valuable light on the
present consideration. In paras 6 to 12, the court has noticed the details of
the material which had been placed before the government prior to the
amendment. In para 13, the court noted that the purpose of the amendment by
the Delhi Rent Control (Amendment) Act was stated in the proposed statute.
Rent laws were already in force. In para 27, the court observed that the
objects of the Amendment Act were different from the objects of the parent
Act. The observations of the court in paras 27, 28, 29, 30 and 40 are material
for the present case and the relevant portion thereof read as follows:
W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 285 of 531 ―27. The objects of the Amending Act are
quite different from the objects of the parent Act. One of the objects of
Amending Act was to rationalise the Rent Control Law by bringing about a
balance between the interest of landlords and tenants. The object was not
merely to protect the weaker section of the community.
xxx xxx xxx ―28. ...This is a matter of legislative policy. The legislature
could have repealed the Rent Act altogether. It can also repeal it step by
step....
29\. In our view, it is for the Legislature to decide what should be the cut-
off point for the purpose of classification and the Legislature of necessity
must have a lot of latitude in this regard. It is well settled that the
safeguard provided by Article 14 of the Constitution can only be invoked, if
the classification is made on the grounds which are totally irrelevant to the
object of the statute. But, if there is some nexus between the objects sought
to be achieved and the classification, the Legislature is presumed to have
acted in proper exercise of its constitutional power. The classification in
practice may result in some hardship. But, a statutory discrimination cannot
be set aside, if there are facts on the basis of which this statutory
discrimination can be justified.
30\. In the case of Harmon Singh and Ors. v. Regional Transport Authority,
Calcutta and Ors. :
[1954]1SCR371, a Bench consisting of five Judges of this Court upheld a
notification issued by the Regional Transport Authority, Calcutta Region,
fixing lower tariff for smaller taxis. The benefit of this lower fare was
given to "small motor taxi cabs of W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 286 of 531 not
below 10 H.P. and not above 19 H.P.". Mahajan, J., speaking for the Court
observed:
―xxx A law applying to a class is constitutional if there is sufficient basis
or reason for it. In other words, a statutory discrimination cannot be set
aside as the denial of equal protection of the laws if any state of facts may
reasonably be conceived to justify it.‖ xxx xxx xxx
48\. ...The court can only consider whether the classification has been done
on an understandable basis having regard to the object of the statute. The
court will not question its validity on the ground of lack of legislative
wisdom.
49\. Moreover, the classification cannot be done with mathematical precision.
The legislature must have considerable latitude for making the classification
having regard to the surrounding circumstances and facts. The court cannot act
as a super-legislature?‖ (Emphasis supplied)
499\. Even though the resultant hardship or inconvenience may not be a valid
ground for challenged, it is permissible to examine the classification in the
legislation from the perspective of its impact on the constitutional rights
and provisions. We may advert to the pronouncement of Supreme Court at (2013)
1 SCC 745, Namit Sharma v. Union of India wherein the Court ruled as
W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 287 of 531 follows:
> 1\. ―The value of any freedom is determined by the extent to which the
> citizens are able to enjoy such freedom...‖ xxx xxx xxx
> 10\. In determining the constitutionality or validity of a constitutional
> provision, the court must weigh the real impact and effect thereof, on the
> fundamental rights. The Court would not allow the legislature to overlook a
> constitutional provision by employing indirect methods. In Minerva Mills
> Ltd. v. Union of India [(1980) 3 SCC 625] this Court mandated without
> ambiguity, that it is the Constitution which is supreme in India and not
> Parliament. Parliament cannot damage the Constitution, to which it owes its
> existence, with unlimited amending power.
> xxx xxx xxx
> 14\. A law which violates the fundamental right of a person is void. In such
> cases of violation, the Court has to examine as to what factors the Court
> should weigh while determining the constitutionality of a statute. First and
> the foremost, as already noticed, is the competence of the legislature to
> make the law. The wisdom or motive of the legislature in making it is not a
> relative consideration. The Court should examine the provisions of the
> statute in light of the provisions of the Constitution (e.g. Part III),
> regardless of how it is actually administered or is capable of being
> administered. In this regard, the Court may consider the following factors
> as noticed in D.D. Basu, Shorter Constitution of India (14th Edn., 2009):
> W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 288 of 531 ―(a) The possibility of abuse of a
> statute does not impart to it any element of invalidity.
> (b) Conversely, a statute which violates the Constitution cannot be
> pronounced valid merely because it is being administered in a manner which
> might not conflict with the constitutional requirements.
> In Charan Lal Sahu v. Union of India [(1990) 1 SCC 613] , SCC at p. 667,
> para 13, Mukharji, C.J. made an unguarded statement viz. that ‗13. In
> judging the constitutional validity of the Act, the subsequent events,
> namely, how the Act has worked itself out, have to be looked into.' It can
> be supported only on the test of ‗direct and inevitable effect' and,
> therefore, needs to be explained in some subsequent decision.
> (c) When the constitutionality of a law is challenged on the ground that it
> infringes a fundamental right, what the Court has to consider is the ‗direct
> and inevitable effect' of such law.
> (d) There is presumption in favour of constitutionality of statutes. The law
> courts can declare the legislative enactment to be an invalid piece of
> legislation only in the event of gross violation of constitutional
> sanctions.‖ xxx xxx xxx
> 16\. Article 14 forbids class legislation but does not forbid reasonable
> classification which means:
16.1. It must be based on reasonable and intelligible W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page
289 of 531 differentia; and 16.2. Such differentia must be on a rational
basis. 16.3. It must have nexus with the object of the Act.
xxx xxx xxx
42\. The courts have observed that when the law- making power of a State is
restricted by a written fundamental law, then any law enacted, which is
opposed to such fundamental law, being in excess of fundamental authority, is
a nullity. Inequality is one such example. Still, reasonable classification is
permissible under the Indian Constitution. Surrounding circumstances can be
taken into consideration in support of the constitutionality of the law which
is otherwise hostile or discriminatory in nature, but the circumstances must
be such as to justify the discriminatory treatment or the classification,
subserving the object sought to be achieved. Mere apprehension of the order
being used against some persons is no ground to hold it illegal or
unconstitutional particularly when its legality or constitutionality has not
been challenged. (Ref. K. Karunakaran v. State of Kerala [(2000) 3 SCC 761 :
2001 SCC (Cri) 183] .) To raise the plea of Article 14 of the Constitution,
the element of discrimination and arbitrariness has to be brought out in clear
terms. The courts have to keep in mind that by the process of classification,
the State has the power of determining who should be regarded as a class for
the purposes of legislation and in relation to law enacted on a particular
subject. The power, no doubt, to some degree is likely to produce some
inequality but if a law deals with liberties of a number of individuals or
well-defined classes, it is not open to the charge of denial of equal
protection on the ground that has no application to other persons.
Classification, thus, W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 290 of 531 means segregation in
classes which have a systematic relation usually found in common properties
and characteristics. It postulates a rational basis and does not mean herding
together of certain persons and classes arbitrarily, as already noticed. The
differentia which is the basis of the classification and the object of the Act
are distinct things and what is necessary is that there must be a nexus
between them. The basis of testing the constitutionality, particularly on the
ground of discrimination, should not be made by raising a presumption that the
authorities are acting in an arbitrary manner. No classification can be
arbitrary. One of the known concepts of constitutional interpretation is that
the legislature cannot be expected to carve out classification which may be
scientifically perfect or logically complete or which may satisfy the
expectations of all concerned. The courts would respect the classification
dictated by the wisdom of the legislature and shall interfere only on being
convinced that the classification would result in pronounced inequality or
palpable arbitrariness tested on the touchstone of Article 14 of the
Constitution. (Ref. Welfare Assn., A.R.P.v. Ranjit P. Gohil [(2003) 9 SCC 358]
.) xxx xxx xxx
45\. In Maneka Gandhi v. Union of India [(1978) 1 SCC 248] and Charan Lal Sahu
v. Union of India [(1990) 1 SCC 613] , the Court has taken the view that when
the constitutionality of a law is challenged on the ground that it infringes a
fundamental right, what the Court has to consider is the ―direct and
inevitable effect‖ of such law. A matter within the legislative competence of
the legislature has to be left to the discretion and wisdom of the framers, so
long as it does not infringe any constitutional provision or violate any
W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 291 of 531 fundamental right. The law has to be just,
fair and reasonable. Article 14 of the Constitution does not prohibit the
prescription of reasonable rules for selection or of qualifications for
appointment, except, where the classification is on the face of it, unjust.‖
(Emphasis by us)
500\. The Supreme Court has therefore, held that the legislature must have
latitude, but it is not unlimited. It has been clearly declared that Article
14 can be invoked, if the classification is made on grounds which are totally
irrelevant to the object of the statute. The direct and inevitable effect of
the law and whether any fundamental right is violated are important
considerations.
501\. The question in the present case is whether the increase in the present
case would fall within the definition of the expression ‗manifestly arbitrary'
and suffering from substantive unreasonableness.
It is equally well settled that a constitutional challenge to a statute on the
ground of legislative arbitrariness deserves the close scrutiny which we have
undertaken as in the present case.
502\. Judicial notice has to be taken of the fact that costs of administration
of justice would have steeply increased since 1870. The inflationary trends as
well as the socio-economic status of the people accessing the court system
would also required to be kept in mind. We have to concede to the executive
the requisite expertise W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 292 of 531 to collate and
assimilate the relevant information as well as the prevalent circumstances and
to analyse the information and thereafter to present the information and the
analysis to the legislature. However, is it possible to deny that the judicial
time which may be spent for enforcement of the judgment or for decree for
suits of the same kind (say for recoveries of property located in different
areas and of varying valuations) would remain the same? Execution of a
possession decree for a small flat, if contested by an unscrupulous judgment
debtor, may generate litigation and last decades. Whereas possession of a
large property may be recovered merely upon filing of the execution petition.
In any case, court fee has been recovered when the suit seeking the
adjudication was filed. We have noted above the irrationality in the
prescriptions of the court fee on suits for recovery of possession of
immovable property as well as the classifications of litigation created by the
respondents which do not appear to have any nexus to the object sought to be
achieved. The arbitrariness and unreasonableness of the prescriptions stares
in the face. The same position is evident qua the several other classes of
litigation noted above.
503\. We may consider the issue of reasonableness of the proportions of the
resources involved in justice dispensation in some of the litigation
categories noticed above. This may be illustrated by the court time occupied
by suits on which court fee of Rs.13 or Rs. 20 has been affixed. A probate
case requires a fixed court fee which may be Rs.20 initially. A contested
probate case W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 293 of 531 may occupy hundreds of hours
of court time and in case the probate petition is dismissed, no charge is
payable. Which means a party has wasted the court resources by bringing
forward a case on which he has paid court fee of an amount which does not bear
the remotest, let alone reasonable, nexus to the court time consumed. On the
other hand, on account of increase of value of the property over the last
years, the valuation can be heavy. Because the parties are putting forward a
correct claim which is not contested, the matter is decided with hardly any
consumption of court time. Yet court fee totally disproportionate to the time
for adjudication would be payable.
504\. So far as suits for recovery of money are concerned, the impugned
legislation has stipulated ad valorem court fee without an upper limit
thereon. Let us examine a hypothetical situation. There are two suits which
are identical in every way except their value. Suit A is for recovery of Rs.10
lakhs on which court fee of Rs10,000/- is paid while suit B is for recovery of
Rs.10 crores on which a court fee of Rs.10 Lakhs is paid. As the facts giving
rise to the two identical suits as well as issues of law are identical, it
would take identical resources and judicial time in deciding the two suits.
Would not this be sufficient reason as to why the plaintiff in suit A should
not be called upon to pay shortfall in the court fee? At the same time, would
it not be unconstitutional to charge the plaintiff in suit B an excess of
Rs.10,000/- only because the value of the amount claimed is large. Thus the
variation in the valuation W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 294 of 531 may render the
court free prescription exorbitant and arbitrary as it is unrelated to and
without any consideration of the resources which are expended on the
adjudication of the cases. Large value suits often take lesser time in
completing the adjudicating process, as compared to lower valued suits.
505\. Whereas, in order to be constitutional and legal, the court fee must
bear a reasonable nexus to the cost incurred. There must also be a limit on
the maximum recoverable court fee. Otherwise, unlike a stamp duty on a sale
deed, which of course is pure revenue, such court fee without a limit would be
wholly illegal and be contrary to the ‗user pay' principles.
506\. As noted above, the respondents have prescribed fixed court fee on suits
relating to intellectual property. Fixed court fee is prescribed on petitions
for enforcement of foreign awards. No intelligible differentia between these
and similar cases is discernible. No reason therefore is advanced. No object
for such magnanimity is disclosed for such favoured treatment to these classes
of litigation.
507\. Judicial notice can be taken of the fact that cases, especially suits on
the original side of this court, relating to intellectual property rights are
of high value. Judicial notice also deserves to be taken of the important
reality, maybe justified, that this commercial litigation not only involves
high value stakes, but inevitably litigants press for prioritized hearings.
These hearings are W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 295 of 531 invariably protracted
and time consuming. Therefore, though the subject and issues are of prime
commercial importance and, of course, intellectually stimulating, yet it
cannot be denied that this litigation makes a large demand on the available
justice dispensation resources, especially on judicial time. Of course that
public interest is also involved in the several important issues, especially
those concerning patenting and copy rights amongst others, cannot be denied.
The parties to this litigation are largely economic giants. They are certainly
not the economically deprived whose access to justice was or would be impeded
by court fee levy.
508\. The respondents have claimed that court fee has been enhanced to
generate revenue. As per the earlier court fee regime, ad valorem court fee
was payable on these claims. Instead, the respondents have brought in a fixed
court fee regime in respect of these claims.
509\. If the respondents had material or reason to support this levy, they
would have placed it before us. Nothing is placed. No reference or reason is
supplied as to why there is under charging of court fee in this litigation.
Intellectual property causes are brought before the same courts which try
other causes. The expenditure on provision of a justice dispensation system
for adjudication on these cases would remain the same. There is certainly no
relationship between the court fees prescription and the expenditure on
provision of the justice dispensation system for adjudication of such
disputes. Clearly an arbitrary exercise and a prescription W.P.(C)No.4770/2012
page 296 of 531 without any basis at all.
510\. The criticism of such court fee regimes by the noted jurist H.M. Seervai
is noted in the 189th Report of the Law Commission. In his book
‗Constitutional Law of India' (3rd Ed. Vol. II p. 1958), where the eminent
author observed that court fees should not be a weapon to stifle suits or
proceedings and that though in fixing the court fees regard may be given to
the amount involved, ―a stage is reached when an increasing amount ceases to
be justified‖.
511\. We have noted above, the statement in the counter affidavit that by the
proposal for amendment to the Court Fees Act, it was proposed to amend the
Schedule to the Court Fees Act and increase the court fee by ten times.
However, as a result of the amendments to the entries (including those noted
above), court fee has been increased manifold, in any case, more than 10%, and
in certain instances to more than 200 to 400 times.
512\. The Supreme Court of Brazil in a judgment dated 28 th March, 1984
reported as Representation No.1077, Quarterly Journal of Jurisprudence of the
Supreme Court 112/34-67. (Representacao n 1077 Revista Trimestral de
Jurisprudencia do Supremo Tribunal Federal 112/34-67) is reported to have
declared unconstitutional the statutory provision for court fee providing for
fixed percentage without any maximum cap. The court appears to have reasoned
that in some cases, the court fee would be so high that it would prevent the
exercise of the W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 297 of 531 fundamental rights of
obtaining judicial redressal and assistance. The decision also considered the
disproportion between the cost of service and fee levied, i.e, that the fee
was not reasonably equivalent to the actual cost of service.
513\. The Supreme Court of India has repeatedly emphasized on the feasibility
of the maximum fees. Such unlimited court fees payable under the impugned Act
is excessive, harsh, unreasonable and transforms levy into a tax.
514\. It is noteworthy that in 1989 Supp (1) SCC 696 (para 92), P.M.
Ashwathanarayana Setty v. State of Karnataka, the Supreme Court held that not
giving a upper limit for the court fee payable on probates was discriminatory
and a piece of class legislation which was prohibited under Article 14.
515\. The court fees payable under the impugned Act on the several entries
noted above for which no maximum limit is prescribed has to be held to be
discriminatory and arbitrary and as such liable to be struck down. On the
several entries for which fixed court fee is prescribed no rationale is
discernible. Such prescription is also contrary to the declared objective of
revenue collection.
516\. The above narration also manifests that clearly none of the authorities
appear to have considered the recognized and established distinction between
the criminal and civil justice dispensation system or the settled principles
governing W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 298 of 531 permissibility of levying court
fees. No attention has been paid to either the binding constitutional
principles or the statutory provisions on this aspect.
517\. In the present case, statutory amendments have been effected which are
contrary to substantive statutory provisions. Binding dicta in judicial
pronouncements of the Supreme Court and the High Court on the applicable
principles and subject matter appear to have completely escaped the notice of
the experts who have guided the legislation. Authoritative consideration of
not only the law as formulated in Indian judicial precedents but also
deliberations over international instruments and jurisprudence for years by
the experts, coupled with relevant inputs regarding the socio-economic
realities peculiar to India by the Law Commission of India do not seem to have
been even looked at, let alone deliberated upon. We are compelled to note that
no formulation of filing details in terms of nature of cases; valuations
thereof; categorizations in terms of judicial time taken; profiling of
litigants; analysis of empirical data etc. has been undertaken before
proposing the amendment. The inevitable result is to render such legislative
exercise arbitrary as well as contrary to law.
518\. We are therefore, compelled to hold that the action of the legislature
is manifestly arbitrary; that the present case manifests substantive
unreasonableness in the impugned statute and the same is ultra vires under
Article 14 of the Constitution.
W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 299 of 531 (VII) Whether the levy in the present case
partakes the character of a tax?
519\. Premised on the extent of the levy, the petitioners have also urged that
the imposition of the court fee by percentage without a maximum limit for
several entries including suits for recovery of amounts; possession of
property probates under the impugned amendment has the effect of profiteering
by the respondents without any relation to the cost of service rendered. The
levies are thus in the nature of a tax and not in the nature of a fee.
520\. So far as arbitration is concerned, the petitioners have submitted that
prescription of court fee at a percentage of the claim/ amount awarded without
a maximum at every stage of the arbitration proceedings is contrary to the
avowed object of encouraging arbitration. It has no relation to the
expenditure on the service rendered and partakes the character of a tax.
521\. For the purposes of decision on this question, it becomes necessary to
examine as to what is the nature of Court Fee -- whether it is a ‗tax' or a
‗fee'. On this aspect the observations of the Supreme Court in paras 31, 33,
45 and 46 of (1973) 1 SCC 162 Secretary, Government of Madras v. Zenith Lamp
and Electrical are relevant and read as follows:
> ―31. But even if the meaning is the same, what is ―fees‖ in a particular
> case depends on the subject-
matter in relation to which fees are imposed. In this W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page
300 of 531 case we are concerned with the administration of civil justice in a
State. The fees must have relation to the administration of civil justice.
While levying fees the appropriate Legislature is competent to take into
account all relevant factors, the value of the subject matter of the dispute,
the various steps necessary in the prosecution of a suit or matter, the entire
cost of the upkeep of courts and officers administering civil justice, the
vexatious nature of a certain type of litigation and other relevant matters.
It is free to levy a small fee in some cases, a large fee in others, subject
of course to the provisions of Art. 14. But one thing the Legislature is not
competent to do, and that is to make litigants contribute to the increase of
general public revenue In other words, it cannot tax litigation, and make
litigations pay, say for road building or education or other beneficial
schemes that a State may have. There must be a broad co-relationship with the
fees collected and the cost of administration of civil justice.
xxx xxx xxx
33\. It was urged that various articles in the Constitution show that fees
taken in Courts are taxes. For instance, by virtue of Article 266 all fees,
being revenues of the State, will have to be credited to the Consolidated
Fund. But this Court has held that the fact that one item of revenue is
credited to the Consolidated Fund is not conclusive to show that the item is a
tax. In The Commissioner, Hindu Religious Endowments, Madras v Sri Lakshmindra
Thirtha Swamiar of Sri Shirur Mut, it was held "A tax is a compulsory exaction
of money by public authority for public purposes enforceable by law and is not
payment for services rendered.
It is not possible to formulate a definition of fees that W.P.(C)No.4770/2012
page 301 of 531 can apply to all cases as there are various kinds of fees. But
a fee may generally be defined as a charge for a special service rendered to
individuals by some governmental agency. The amount of fee levied is supposed
to be based on the expenses incurred by the Government in rendering the
service, though in many cases such expenses are arbitrarily assessed.
The distinction between a tax and a fee lies primarily in the fact that a tax
is levied as part of a common burden, while a fee is a payment for special
benefit or privilege".
xxx xxx xxx
45\. With respect, the fees taken in courts and the fees mentioned in Entry 66
List I are of the same kind. They may differ from each other only because they
relate to different subject-matters and the subject-matter may dictate what
kind of fees can be levied conveniently, but the overall limitation is that
fees cannot be levied for the increase of general revenue. For instance if a
State were to double court- fee with the object of providing money for road
building or building schools, the enactment would be held to be void...
xxx xxx xxx
46...As soon as the broad correlationship between the cost of administration
of civil justice and the levy of court fees ceases, the imposition becomes a
tax and beyond the competence of the State Legislature. (para 46) (Emphasis by
us)
522\. The question whether court fee is a ‗tax' or a ‗fee' was also raised
before the Supreme Court in 1989 Suppl (1) SCC 696, P.M.
W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 302 of 531 Ashwathanarayana Setty v. State of
Karnataka („A Setty‟) and (1996) 1 SCC 345, Secretary to Government of Madras
v. P.R. Sriramulu.
523\. In A. Setty it was observed as follows:-
> ―Another review of all the earlier pronouncements of this court on the
> conceptual distinction between a `fee' and a `tax' and the various contexts
> in which the distinction becomes telling is an idle parade of familiar
> learning and unnecessary. What emerges from these pronouncements is that if
> the essential character of the impost is that some special service is
> intended or envisaged as a quid pro quo to the class of citizens which is
> intended to be benefitted by the service and there is a broad and general
> correlation between the amount so raised and the expenses involved in
> providing the services, the impost would par-take the character of a `fee'
> notwithstanding the circumstance that the identity of the amount so raised
> is not always kept distinguished but is merged in the general revenues of
> the State and notwithstanding the fact that such special services, for which
> the amount is raised, are, as they very often do, incidentally or indirectly
> benefit the general public also. The test is the primary object of the levy
> and the essential purpose it is intended to achieve. The correlationship
> between the amount raised through the ‗fee' and the expenses involved in
> providing the services need not be examined with a view to ascertaining any
> accurate, arithmetical equivalence or precision in the correlation; but it
> would be sufficient that there is a broad and general correlation. But a fee
> loses its character as such if it is intended to and does go to enrich the
> general revenues of the State to be applied for general purposes of
> Government. (para 35 of A.
> W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 303 of 531 Setty) (Also quoted in para 12 of
> Sriramulu) Conversely, from this latter element stems the sequential
> proposition that the object to be served by raising the fee should not
> include objects which are, otherwise, within the ambit of general
> governmental obligations and activities. (para 35 of A. Setty) The concept
> of fee is not satisfied merely by showing that, the class of persons from
> whom the fee is collected also derives some benefit from those activities of
> Government. (para 35 of A. Setty) The benefit the class of payers of fee
> obtain in such a case is clearly not a benefit intended as special service
> to it but derived by it as part of the general public. (para 35 of A. Setty)
> Nor does the concept of a fee- and this is important-
require for its sustenance the requirement that every member of the class on
whom the fee is imposed, must receive a corresponding benefit or degree of
benefit commensurate with or proportionate to the payment that he individually
makes. It would be sufficient if the benefit of the special services is
available to and received by the class as such. It is not necessary that every
individual composing the class should be shown to have derived any direct
benefit. A fee has also the element of a compulsory exaction which it shares
in common with the concept of a tax as the class of persons intended to be
benefitted by the special services has no volition to decline the benefit of
the services. A fee is, therefore, a charge for the special services rendered
to a class of citizens by Government or Government at agencies and is
generally based on the expenses incurred in rendering the services. (para 36
of A. Setty) The extent and degree of the correlation required to support the
fees, has also been considered in a W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 304 of 531 number
of pronouncements of this court. It has been held that it is for the
governmental agencies imposing the fee to justify its impost and its quantum
as a return for some special services.‖ (para 37 of A. Setty)
524\. The Supreme Court has clearly enunciated the principles on which the
examination of the issue as to whether the court fee levy was a ‗fee' or a
‗tax' has to be effected. The same are best stated in the words of the Supreme
Court which are extracted as follows:-
> ―What emerges from the foregoing discussion is that when a broad and general
> correlation between the totality of the fee on the one hand and the totality
> of the expenses of the services on the other is established, the levy will
> not fail in its essential character of a fee on the ground alone that the
> measure of its distribution on the persons of incidence is disproportionate
> to the actual services obtainable by them. The argument that where the levy,
> in an individual case, for exceeds the maximum value, in terms of money, of
> the services that could at all be possible, them, qua that contributor, the
> correlation breaks down is a subtle and attractive argument. However, on a
> proper comprehension of the true concept of a fee the argument seems to us
> to be more subtle than accurate. The test of the correlation is not in
> context of individual contributors. (para 72 of A.
Setty) (Also quoted in para 12 of Sriramulu) The test is on the comprehensive
level of the value of the totality of the services, set-off against the
totality of the receipts of the character of the `fee' is thus established,
the vagaries in its distribution amongst the class, do not detract from the
concept of a `fee' as W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 305 of 531 such, though a
wholly arbitrary distribution of the burden might violate other constitutional
limitation.‖ (para 72 of A. Setty) (Also quoted in para 12 of Sriramulu) The
submission of the petitioners would require to be examined on the above
principles.
525\. On this issue, reference may be made to the pronouncement of the Supreme
Court reported at (2009) 4 SCC 72, M. Chandru v. Member Secretary, Chennai
Metropolitan Development Authority and Anr. wherein a similar issue had arisen
before the Supreme Court and the authority failed to set out how the services
rendered would satisfy the requirements of a fee:
> ―24. It is not contended before us that IDC is not a fee but a tax. If it is
> a fee, the principle of quid pro quo shall apply. Like a State, all other
> authorities which are statutorily empowered to levy the same must spell out
> as to on what basis the same is charged. The State has not placed any
> material before the High Court. The High Court has also not addressed itself
> properly on the same issue. It failed to pose unto itself a relevant
> question. It proceeded on the basis as if overall development charges by
> itself is sufficient to levy a fee without spelling out how the services
> rendered will satisfy the equivalence doctrine for the purpose of levy and
> collection of fees.‖
526\. On application of the principle laid in M. Chandru (Supra), it is
necessary for the respondents to state and establish that the fees are being
levied and collected only for the purposes of the W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 306
of 531 services being rendered.
527\. Some states in India have set limits of maximum the chargeable court fee
on select categories of cases. Gujarat for instance imposes a ceiling of
Rs.75,000/- on court fee when instituting a suit or for matters of probate.
West Bengal and Maharashtra also have limits of select categories. West Bengal
imposes a ceiling of Rs. 50,000/- in its rates of ad valorem fees leviable on
the institution of suits, while Maharashtra imposes a ceiling of Rs 3,00,000
on the same. Jammu and Kashmir has also prescribed ceiling of maximum court
fee of Rs 75,000 on the institution of suits.
528\. In the court fee regime applicable in Assam (which would apply to
Arunachal Pradesh, Nagaland and Mizoram as well), there is ceiling of
Rs.10,000/- on money suit; in Goa there is a ceiling of Rs.15,000/- for money
suit and in the state of Gujarat, there is ceiling of Rs.75,000/- for both
money suit and probate case.
529\. Mr. Chandhiok, learned Senior Counsel has also contended that the
figures which have been compiled in the reports published by the Delhi High
Court show that litigation under Section 138 of the Negotiable Instruments
Act, litigation is voluminous. It is urged that given the scheme of the
amended statute, it is evident that in effectuating this amendment to the
Court Fee Schedule, the intention of the Delhi Legislature was clearly only to
affect an increase in the general revenue from Section 138 of the Negotiable
W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 307 of 531 Instruments Act litigation and that, such
levy partakes the character of a tax. The submission is that apart from the
impermissible for a legislature to effect recovery of amount towards the
general revenue under the guise of the court fee. It is urged that such
arbitrary increase tantamounts to taxation of the litigant which is clearly
beyond the legislative competence of the legislative assembly by the NCT of
Delhi. There appears to be strength in these submissions.
530\. Several countries impose no court fees at all. We have noticed in detail
the court fee provisions on suits for arbitration petitions and other cases,
recovery of money, property, probates in Delhi under the impugned legislation.
Ad valorem and without a limit, the levy of court fee for the reasons
discussed have all the trappings of taxation.
(VIII) Access to justice: a right, not a privilege; optimum level of court fee
to be assessed by capacity of not just the economically well placed, but also
the capacity of the poor and those on the border line "Access to justice is
basic to human rights. The right to justice is fundamental to the rule of law
and so „We, the people of India‟ have made social justice an inalienable claim
on the State, entitling the humblest human to legal literacy and fundamental
rights and their enforcement a forensic reality, however powerful the hostile
forces be... Declarations and proclamations, resolutions and legislations
remain a mirage unless there is an infrastructure which can be set in
locomotion to prevent or punish a wrong and to make legal right an
inexpensively enforceable human right. Injustices are many, deprivation
victimizes the weaker sections and the minority suffers the
W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 308 of 531 oppression syndrome."
\- Justice V.R. Krishna Iyer The discussion on this subject is being
considered under the following sub-headings:
           (i)     What is Justice
           (ii)    Access to Justice: Nature of Right
           (iii)   The Content of Access to Justice
           (iv)    Purpose of access to justice
           (v)     International treaties and conventions
           (vi)    The position in India: pre and post Constitution, and
                   statutory provisions
(vii) The Constitution of India and relevant legislations
(viii) "Access to justice" may not be synonymous with "access to courts"
(ix) Court fee: an entry point financial barrier to access to justice?
(x) Ensuring access to justice and impact of court fee
(xi) Administration of justice - a State responsibility
(xii) Differing obligations of the State to provide Civil and Criminal
Justice.
(xiii) Can access to justice be for a price by way of court fee
531\. We now propose to examine the impact of a court fee levy on the most
important fundamental right, considered a basic human right in all
jurisdictions. We advert to the right to justice. To W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page
309 of 531 understand such impact, it is essential to understand the nature
and contents of the right and the several nuances thereof. We now examine the
contours of this right as well as the impact of the impugned amendment thereon
from some relevant angles.
532\. Mr. A.S. Chandhiok and Mr. M. Krishnamani, learned Senior Counsels
appearing for the petitioners have urged at some length that the enhancement
of the court fee has adversely impacted the right of access to justice of the
litigants. It has placed the level of court fee in some cases at a high level
making it impossible for those who are on the border line of indigency to file
claims for redressal of their grievances or securing their rights. Hence such
levy is not sustainable for this reason as well. This submission in our view
is of paramount importance, as it involves a consideration of the impact of
the impugned legislation on a right placed at the core of all rights in the
Constitution. This argument is certainly not without merit, as the following
discussion would show.
What is Justice
533\. It is an established and time-honoured fact that the courts of law are
guided by the principles of justice. It is germane at this stage to identify
the concept of justice and to delineate the planes on which justice operates.
534\. ‗Justice' is not defined by any determinate definition. Justice is first
and foremost a social construct and then, as a second step, a
W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 310 of 531 legal one. In the social acceptance and
visibility of justice lie its validation, its very rationale for existence.
Hence the oft -quoted aphorism ―justice must not only be done, it should also
be seen to be done.‖ Therefore, when society is structured in a manner that it
creates barriers to legal recourse, that is, access to justice, then society
works contrary to its own organization.
535\. The overlap of the social, economic and legal spheres has been widely
experienced; it is a well-known fact that the social groups placed at the
extreme margins of society are also the poorest. Statistics acknowledge this
social and economic categorization of poverty. The poor are, thus, socially
excluded and have low access not only to economic opportunities but to other
systems including health, education, and especially legal services.
536\. It is important to note that the contours of this right are different
for persons placed at different social and economic groups as will be
manifested from the following discussion. The right therefore encapsulates the
right to have an effective and efficient forum for protection of rights; to
seek prevention of violations as well as redressal if a right is violated.
Inherent in such right is the availability of an equal opportunity to access
the forum to seek justice.
Access to Justice: Nature of Right
537\. The jurisprudence of the Supreme Court of India has W.P.(C)No.4770/2012
page 311 of 531 repeatedly emphasized that the right to a fair trial and of
access to justice is a basic fundamental/human right. [Ref: (2003) 6 SCC 230,
Dwarka Prasad Agarwal v. B.D. Agarwal].
538\. In (2007) 4 SCC 241, Bhagubhai Dhanabhai Khalasi v. State of Gujarat,
the Supreme Court observed:
> ―10. A party having a grievance must have a remedy. Access to justice is a
> human right. When there exists such a right, a disputant must have a remedy
> in terms of the doctrine ubi jus ibi remedium.‖
539\. The emergence of the right of access to justice as ‗the most basic human
right' was in recognition of the fact that possession of rights without an
effective mechanism for their vindication would be meaningless.
The Content of Access to Justice
540\. In assessing the precise effects of the enhanced court fee regime on the
recognized fundamental and human right of access to justice, it is first
necessary to explore the content of that right. The word ―justice‖ in the
phrase ―access to justice‖ also merits attention.
541\. In this regard we may refer to a document prepared by ‗Governance,
Social Development, Humanitarian Conflict (Applied Knowledge Services)'
[available on ww.gsdrc.org]. It is very aptly stated in this document that at
the level of legal theory, law is W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 312 of 531 defined
by its three attributes: (i) as a relationship of power; (ii) as a social
process; (iii) and as a standard of justice. As one of the founding attributes
of law itself, the concept of justice includes standards of rights defined in
law. The state bears the primary responsibility for the protection of these
rights, and the courts are the specific institution that ultimately guarantees
their enforcement through the sanction of law.
542\. The word ―access‖ connotes both contact with something, and the right of
entry or the right of use. When used in the phrase ―access to justice,‖ the
word ―access‖ has therefore to be understood in a comprehensive sense,
including entry to, as well as use of the justice system.
543\. ―Access to justice‖ also knows of no statutory definition. In this
context, the phrase ―access to justice‖ relates to the ability of individuals,
groups, and communities to realise justice through the meaningful and
practical enforcement of their rights by the justice delivery system, of which
the courts are an integral part. Thus, the authorities in Indonesia while
examining ―A Framework for Strengthening Access to Justice in Indonesia‖ have
proposed the following comprehensive definition of access to justice [Ref:
Presidential Regulation No.7/2005 on the National Medium - Terms Development
Plan (2004 - 09) Chapter 9, Section 2]:
> ―Access by people, in particular from poor and disadvantaged groups to fair,
> effective and accountable mechanisms for the protection of rights,
> W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 313 of 531 control of abuse of power and resolution
> of conflicts.
This includes the ability of people to seek and obtain a remedy through formal
and informal justice systems, and the ability to seek and exercise influence
on law-making and law implementing processes and institutions.‖ This wide
definition succinctly sums up all facets of access to justice.
Purpose of access to justice
544\. ―Access to Justice‖ inheres in the very basic notion of justice. The
learned author Cappelleti in his book ―Access to Justice‖, Vol.I Book 1, (also
quoted in several pronouncements of the Supreme Court as well as by the Law
Commission of India), on the need for access to justice has stated that:
> ―The need for access to justice may be said to be twofold; first, we must
> ensure that the rights of citizens should be recognized and made effective
> for otherwise they would not be real but merely illusory; and secondly we
> must enable legal disputes, conflicts and complaints which inevitably arise
> in society to be resolved in an orderly way according to the justice of the
> case, so as to promote harmony and peace in society, lest they foster and
> breed discontent and disturbance. In truth, the phrase itself ‗access to
> justice' is a profound and powerful expression of a social need which is
> imperative, urgent and more widespread than is generally acknowledged.‖
545\. The essentiality of a judicial remedy for redressal of
W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 314 of 531 grievances and enforcing rights has been
highlighted by the Law Commission (189th Report) relying on Lord Diplock's
pronouncement reported at 1981 (1) ALL ER 289 = 1981 AC 909, Bremer Vulkan
Schiffbau and Maschinenfabrik v. South India Shipping Corp. wherein it was
stated that:
> ―Every civilized system of government requires that the State should make
> available to all its citizens a means for the just and peaceful settlement
> of disputes between them as to their respective legal rights. The means
> provided are courts of justice to which every citizen has a constitutional
> right of access in the role of plaintiff to obtain the remedy to which he
> claims to be entitled in consequence of an alleged breach of his legal or
> equitable rights by some other citizen, the defendant.‖
546\. In the famous case of Marbury v. Madison, (1803) 5 U.S. 137, Marshall
CJ. broadly ruled the power of the constitutional courts to go into the
validity of the laws made by the Legislature or of the actions of the
executive and reiterated that ―the very essence of civil liberty certainly
consists in the right of every individual to claim the protection of the laws,
whenever he receives an injury‖. One of the first duties of the government is
to afford that protection. He also quoted Blackstone when he declared the
principle in the laws of England that every right when withheld must have a
remedy and that every injury its proper redress.
547\. The right of access to justice when impacted, has been the
W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 315 of 531 subject matter of adjudication in several
jurisdictions stating the purpose and essentiality of access to justice.
Reference has been made to the pronouncement reported at (1997) 2 All ER 779,
R v. Lord Chancellor, ex parte Witham (referred to as the ‗Witham case'). This
decision was rendered in judicial review proceedings challenging the validity
of the Supreme Court Fees (Amendment) Order, 1996. Article 3 of this Order,
1996 amended the Supreme Court Fees Order, 1980 and repealed the provisions
contained in Article 5(1) and (3) of the 1980 Order, which relieved the
litigants in person who were in receipt of income support, from the obligation
to pay court fees and permitted the Lord Chancellor to reduce or remit the fee
in any particular case on grounds of undue financial hardship in exceptional
circumstances. The amendment had been issued by the Lord Chancellor, acting
under the powers conferred on him by Section 130 of the Supreme Court Act,
1981. The High Court (Queen's Bench Division) struck down the amendment
holding that the effect of the amendment was to ―bar absolutely many persons
from seeking justice from the courts‖. At page 788, it was further stated that
―access to the courts is a constitutional right; it can only be denied by the
government if it persuades Parliament to pass a legislation which specifically
- in effect by express provision - permits the Executive to turn people away
from the court door‖.
It was unequivocally stated that the right of access to justice was a
constitutional right which could only be abrogated by W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page
316 of 531 specific statutory provisions or by regulations made pursuant to a
legislation which specifically conferred the power to abrogate that right. It
was thus the removal of the discretion to waive court fee which was held to
adversely impact access to justice.
548\. Justice Laws in Witham (supra) equated the right of access to justice to
the right of speech and expression in the following words:
> ―I cannot think that the right of access to justice is in some way a lesser
> right than that of free expression; the circumstances in which free speech
> might be jusfiably be curtailed in my view run wider than any in which the
> citizen might properly be prevented by the State from seeking redress from
> the Queen's courts. Indeed the right to a fair trial with all necessity
> imports the right of access to the court is as near to an absolute right as
> in which I can envisage.‖
549\. De Smith's Judicial Review of Administrative Action (5 th Ed, 1995) has
quoted Sir John Laws in the decision in Witham (supra) as follows:-
> ―It is a common law presumption of legislative intent that access of
> Queens's Court in respect of justiciable issues is not to be denied save by
> clear words in a statute‖
550\. On the subject of interference with a person's right of access to
justice, reference requires to be made to the pronouncement by Steyn LJ in
1993 (4) All ER 539 (CA), R v. Secretary of State for W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page
317 of 531 Home Dept, ex p Leech. It may be noted that in this case, the court
was considering a complaint by a prisoner to the effect that his
correspondence with his solicitor concerning litigation in which he was
involved or intended to launch, was being censored by the prison authorities
under the Prisons Rules, 1964. It was urged that the statute did not authorise
framing of rules which would create an impediment to the free-flow of
communication between him and his solicitor about contemplated legal
proceedings. The court commented on the issue of creation of barriers to
access to the courts holding as follows:
> ―It is a principle of our law that every citizen has a right of unimpeded
> access to a court. In Raymond v. Honey (1982) 1 All ER 756 Lord Wilberforce
> described it as a ‗basic right'. Even in our unwritten Constitution, it
> ranks as a constitutional right.‖
551\. An issue with regard to the right of a person to lay information before
a Magistrate was held, could not be prohibited, as the same could not be
brought within vexatious ―legal proceedings‖ which could be prevented under
the 1896 statute on the subject. In the pronouncement reported at (1915) 1 KB
21, Re Vexatious Actions Act 1896, Re Boaler, Scrutton J. pronounced as
follows:
> ―One of the valuable rights of every subject of the King is to appeal to the
> King in his courts if he alleges that a civil wrong has been done to him, or
> if W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 318 of 531 he alleges that a wrong punishable
> criminally has been done to him, or has been committed by another subject of
> the King. This right is sometimes abused and it is, of course, quite
> competent to Parliament to deprive any subject of the King of it either
> absolutely or in part. But the language of any statute should be jealously
> watched by the court, and should not be extended beyond its least onerous
> meaning unless clear words are used to justify extension...I approach the
> consideration of a statute which is said to have this meaning with the
> feeling that unless its language clearly convinces me that this was the
> intention of the Legislature I shall be slow to give effect to what is most
> serious interference with the liberties of the subject.‖
552\. The right of access to justice is thus not only well established but
staunchly protected so far as common law jurisdictions are concerned. In the
jurisdictions where the rights have been so enshrined as noted above, this
right is constitutionally protected.
553\. As the highest court of the Canadian province of British Columbia noted
in 2005 BCCA 631, Christie v. British Columbia, one of the three foundational
components of the rule of law is that the relationship between citizens and
the State be regulated by law. This component of the rule of law cannot be
fulfilled if access to law enforcement agencies or the justice delivery system
is restricted:
> ―not only would individuals be unable to have their rights determined vis-à-
> vis the government or other private persons; governments would also be
> stymied W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 319 of 531 in the execution of many of
> their executive and enforcement functions.‖ In the context of the rule of
> law, then, access to justice operates at a ―threshold‖ level.
> ―It is content-neutral, just as courts of law are impartial between
> litigants. It does not imperil legal certainty and predictability: to the
> contrary, it seeks to provide a forum, both physical and systemic, in which
> those and other principles may be perused.‖ Limiting access to courts thus
> also affects the rule of law.
554\. In 1993 Suppl. (2) SCC 433, M.V. Elisabeth v. Harwan Investment and
Trading Pvt. Ltd., the Supreme Court stated that the judicial power of this
country, which is an aspect of judicial sovereignty, is vested in the people
and is articulated in the provisions of the Constitution and the laws and is
exercised by Courts empowered to exercise it. The Supreme Court further
stated:-
> ―86. Access to courts which is an important right vested in every citizen
> implies the existence of the power of the court to render justice according
> to law.
Where statute is silent and judicial intervention is required, courts strive
to redress grievances according to what is perceived to be principles of
justice, equity and good conscience.‖ W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 320 of 531
555\. It is important also to keep in mind the importance of access in the
broader social context. The Indonesian authorities, for example, have
emphasized the relationship between access to justice, poverty reduction, and
the empowerment of communities [Ref: Presidential Regulation No.7/2005 on the
National Medium - Terms Development Plan (2004 - 09) Chapter 9]. It was
further stated that increasing the effectiveness of, and confidence in the
justice system can reduce conflict and improve human security. Thus, there is
international recognition that improving physical access to justice can
directly increase income and welfare for the poor who are especially
vulnerable due to the reality that they are, inter alia, disproportionately
victimized by crime, systemically prevented from asserting their land rights,
and face barriers to securing their rightful inheritance or property rights
upon divorce. It has to be recognised that conflict reduction in the country
would not only create an environment of social security, but would facilitate
economic security as well. Availability of a strong legal redressal and
enforcement mechanism has to thus make a contribution to robust economic
developments.
556\. Thus two essential purposes which are intended to be served by providing
access to justice are:
> ―(a) to ensure that every person is able to invoke legal processes for
> redressal, irrespective of social or economic status or other incapacity;
> and W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 321 of 531
> (b) that every person should receive a just and fair treatment within the
> legal system.‖ (Ref: S. Muralidhar, Law, Poverty and Legal Aid: Access to
> Criminal Justice, Lexis Nexis (2004), p.1) International treaties and
> conventions
557\. We may briefly note also the position of the right of access to justice
in international covenants and treaties. The Universal Declaration of Human
Rights (‗UDHR') adopted by the United Nations General Assembly on 10th
December, 1948 articulates and recognizes the right of access to justice in
the following provisions:
> ―Article 6: Everyone has the right to recognition everywhere as a person
> before the law.
> Article 7: All are equal before the law and are entitled without any
> discrimination to equal protection of the law.
> All are entitled to equal protection against any discrimination in violation
> of this Declaration and against any incitement to such discrimination.
> Article 8: Everyone has the right to an effective remedy by the competent
> national tribunals for acts violating the fundamental rights granted him by
> the Constitution or by law.
> Article 10: Everyone is entitled in full equality to a fair and public
> hearing by an independent and impartial tribunal, in the determination of
> his rights and obligations and of any criminal charge against him.
    W.P.(C)No.4770/2012                                     page 322 of 531
            Article 21:
> (1) Everyone has the right to take part in the government of his country,
> directly or through freely chosen representatives.
> (2) Everyone has the right of equal access to public service in his
> country...‖
558\. The United Nations International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights
(‗ICCPR'), which came into force on 23rd March, 1976, provides thus:
> ―Article 2(3) Each State Party to the present Covenant undertakes:
> (a) To ensure that any person whose rights or freedoms as herein recognized
> are violated shall have an effective remedy, notwithstanding that the
> violation has been committed by persons acting in an official capacity;
> (b) To ensure that any person claiming such a remedy shall have his right
> thereto determined by competent judicial, administrative or legislative
> authorities, or by any other competent authority provided for by the legal
> system of the State, and to develop the possibilities of judicial remedy;
> (c) To ensure that the competent authorities shall enforce such remedies
> when granted.‖
559\. Similar to Article 7 of the UDHR, under Article 14.1 of the
International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, it is stated
W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 323 of 531 that:-
> ―All persons shall be equal before the courts and tribunals. In the
> determination of any criminal charge against him, or of his rights and
> obligations in a suit at law, everyone shall be entitled to a fair and
> public hearing by a competent, independent and impartial tribunal
> established by law...‖ It is noteworthy that India acceded to the
> International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights on 10th April, 1979.
560\. Even though the European Convention does not expressly contain such a
right, however, the European Court of Human Rights has held that it would be
‗inconceivable' that Article 6 thereof should not first protect that which
alone makes it possible to benefit from such guarantees, that is, a right to
access to the courts, subject to reasonable limits is the doorway through
which the remaining rights of criminal procedure may be invoked. (Ref: Golder
v. UK 1975 (1) EHRR 524; Airey v. Ireland (1979) 2 EHRR 305).
The position in India: pre and post Constitution, and statutory provisions
561\. Historically, it is considered that the right of ―access to justice‖ has
roots in the origin of the common law. In the 12 th century in England during
the reign of Henry II, the King agreed for establishing a system of writs that
would enable the litigants of all classes to avail themselves of the King's
justice giving root to W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 324 of 531 the concept of
―access to justice and rule of law‖. The abuses of ‗King's justice' by King
John promoted the rebellion in 1215 which led to articulation of the concept
of ―access to justice‖ which has roots in the origins of the common law, as
manifested in the Magna Carta. Even the Law Commission of India (189th Report
on the Revision of the Court Fee Structure) characterizes the legal
entitlement to access courts articulated in the Magna Carta as a ‗right' that
inheres in individuals rather than just a general preference or ideal.
562\. The 189th Report (February, 2004) of the Law Commission (pages 11 and
12) has noted following three clauses of the Magna Carta which are the
foundation of the basic right of access to the courts:
> ―No freeman shall be taken or imprisoned or disseised or outlawed or exiled
> or in anyway ruined, nor will we go or send against him, except by the
> lawful judgment of his peers or by the law of the land. To no man will we
> sell, to no one will we deny or delay right to justice.
> Moreover, all those aforesaid customs and liberties, the observance of which
> we have granted in our kingdom as far as pertains to us towards our men,
> shall be observed by all our kingdom, as well clergy as laymen, as far as
> pertains to them towards their men.
Wherefore, it is our will, and we firmly enjoin, that the English Church be
free, and the men in our kingdom have and hold all the aforesaid liberties,
W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 325 of 531 rights, and concessions, well and
peaceably, freely and quietly, fully and wholly, for themselves and their
heirs, of us and our heirs, in all aspects and in all places for ever, as is
aforesaid. An oath, moreover, has been taken, as well on our part as on the
part of the barons, that all these conditions aforesaid shall be kept in good
faith and without evil intention - Given under our hand - the above named and
many others being witnesses - in the meadow which is called Runnymede, between
Windsor and Staines, on the fifteenth day of June, in the seventeenth year of
our reign.‖
563\. The Indian judicial system, since the ancient period has been based on
the concept of ‗dharma' or rules of right conduct, as outlined in the
‗Puranas' and the ‗Smritis'. The King derived his powers from ‗dharma' or the
‗rule of law'. Emperor Ashoka of the Mauryan dynasty showed great concern for
fairness in the dispensation of justice; in his opinion justice had to be seen
to be done. This is manifested from the inscription/edict on the Pillars of
Ashoka:
> ―It is my desire that there should be uniformity in law and uniformity in
> sentencing. I even go this far, to grant a three day stay for those in
> prison who have been tried and sentenced to death. During this time their
> relatives can make appeals to have the prisoner's lives spared. If there is
> none to appeal on their behalf, the prisoners can give gifts in order to
> make merit for the next world, or observe fasts.‖ W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page
> 326 of 531
564\. The citizens have always had access to the King for redressal of their
disputes. During Akbar's reign, in the civil courts Akbar abolished laws that
discriminated against non-Muslims.
565\. The judgment seat of Vikramaditya and access to the King for accessing
justice in the Ramayana are proverbial.
566\. It is important to note that there was no fee (or court fee) for
accessing justice in the pre-British days.
567\. The right of access to justice was non-derogable even in the pre-
independence era (Ref: the decision of the Bombay High Court in AIR 1926 Bom
551, Re: Llewelyn Evans and AIR 1943 Nagpur 26, P.K. Tare v. Emperor). In the
latter case, Justice Vivian Bose explained that the right to move the High
Court remained intact despite detention under the Defence of India Act, 1939
and that ―an attempt to keep the applicants away from this court under the
guise of these rules, is an abuse of power and warrants intervention‖. The
importance of the right of any person to apply to the court and the demand
that he be dealt with according to law was emphasized.
The Constitution of India and relevant legislations
568\. The right of access to justice embodied in the international covenants
noticed above has been incorporated in several constitutional and statutory
provisions. Access to justice has been made an enforceable right in India.
569\. In 1947, the charter of the United Nations was adopted with
W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 327 of 531 India as one of its founding members. This
charter reaffirmed the worth of the human person and the equal rights of men
and women. The General Assembly of the UN adopted the Universal Declaration of
Human Rights (UDHR) on the 10th of December, 1948\.
570\. At around this time, the Constituent Assembly of India, under the
chairmanship of Dr. B.R. Ambedkar began its deliberations about the basic
objectives of new India to be incorporated into the Constitution of India and
the modalities of achieving the same.
571\. The Constituent Assembly of India adopted the Constitution on 26th
November, 1949 while India was declared a republic on 26th of January, 1950.
The Indian Constitution is the largest in the world and unequivocally imbibes
the spirit of the Universal Declaration which is fully reflected in its
Preamble, and contains elaborate provisions concerning the fundamental rights
conferred on the citizens of the country.
572\. The Constitution of India unequivocally acknowledges the injustices
rooted in the social system inherited by free India. It includes specific
protections for disadvantaged social groups in the economic system (such as
abolition of untouchability, castes, forced labour, child labour).
573\. Pandit Jawahar Lal Nehru, India's first Prime Minister embodied the
essence of the four core objects of the Indian W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 328 of
531 Constitution i.e. the goals of justice, liberty, equality and fraternity
of the Constitution in his following words to the Constituent Assembly:
> ―The first task of this Assembly is to free India through a new
> Constitution, to feed the starving people and to clothe the naked masses and
> to give every Indian the fullest.‖
574\. The Constitution stridently acknowledges and reinforces the statement
that equality in terms of opportunities or formal equality before the law may
be impactless amongst those who are socially, educationally or economically
deprived. We consider the impact of such deprivation on the right to access
justice of these persons a little later. For the time being, suffice it to
state that the Constitution sets forth a programme for reconstruction and
transformation of the medieval hierarchical society, re-enforcing the
transformation of inequalities into an egalitarian society based on equal
opportunities regardless of one's caste, race or religion. The Constitution
also envisages a pro-active role for the State in this regard with the
objective of statutorily transforming the unequal social order and removing
existing discrimination.
575\. In (2000) 1 SCC 168 Indira Sawhney v. Union of India, a nine Judge Bench
of the Supreme Court held that Article 14 enjoins the State to take into
account de facto inequalities existent in society and to take affirmative
action by either giving preference to the socially and economically
disadvantaged persons or by W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 329 of 531 inflicting
handicaps on those more advantageously placed, in order to bring real
equality. The court stated that such affirmative action, though apparently
discriminatory, is calculated to produce equality on the broader basis of
eliminating de facto inequalities and placing the weaker sections of the
community at par with the more powerful sections of the society so that each
member of the community may enjoy equal opportunity of using natural
endowments to the full.
576\. Before us, it is urged that the enhancement of the court fee impacts
constitutional rights of the citizens under Articles 16, 21 and 32 of the
Constitution placed in Part III of the Constitution of India. We have already
dealt with the violation of Article 14 of the Constitution. The other
constitutional provisions are set out in extenso hereafter:
> ―Right to Equality
> 16\. Equality of opportunity in matters of public employment.- (1) There
> shall be equality of opportunity for all citizens in matters relating to
> employment or appointment to any office under the State.
> (2) No citizen shall, on grounds only of religion, race, caste, sex,
> descent, place of birth, residence or any of them, be ineligible for, or
> discriminated against in respect of, any employment or office under the
> State.
> xxx xxx xxx
> 21\. Protection of life and personal liberty.- No W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page
> 330 of 531 person shall be deprived of his life or personal liberty except
> according to procedure established by law.
577\. Apart from the inalienable fundamental rights, the Constituent Assembly
maintained the spirit of access to justice by providing for Article 32, in
Part III of the Constitution, a guaranteed right to legal remedy. The right
under Article 32 to petition the Supreme Court for enforcement and protection
of fundamental rights is thus itself a fundamental right, and has been
described in a plethora of judgments as being ―absolutely absolute‖.
578\. We may advert to an important legislation motivated by our international
obligations. The Protection of Human Rights Act, 1993 was promulgated by the
President of India on 28th September, 1993 to provide for the constitution of
National and State Human Rights Commissions for better protection of human
rights. These measures were undertaken to discharge Indian obligations under
the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and the International
Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, both covenants to which
India is a party.
579\. The expression ―human rights‖ is defined under Section 2(1)(d) of the
Protection of Human Rights Act, 1993 in the following terms:-
―‗Human rights' means the rights relating to life, liberty, equality and
dignity of the individual W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 331 of 531 guaranteed by
the Constitution or embodied in the International Covenants and enforceable by
courts in India.‖
580\. The National Commission for Review into the working of Constitution has
recommended that the right to ―access to justice‖ be incorporated expressly as
a fundamental right (Article 30A) in the Constitution. This Commission has
relied on the following Article 34 in the South African Constitution of 1996:-
> ―Article 34: Access to Courts and Tribunals and Speedy Justice (1) Everyone
> has the right to have any dispute that can be resolved by the application of
> law decided in a fair and public hearing before a Court or tribunal or forum
> or where appropriate, another independent and impartial Court, tribunal or
> forum.
> (2) The right to access to Courts shall be deemed to include the right to
> reasonably speedy and effective justice in all matters before the Courts,
> tribunals or other forum and the State shall take all reasonable steps to
> achieve that object.‖
581\. The existence of the right to access to justice thus can be sourced into
the constitutional rights and its legal status depends on its source. We find
that this is further elaborated in the 189th Law Commission Report which has
noted the reiteration by Laws LJ. in (2002) 3 WLR 344, International Transport
Roth GmbH v. Secretary of State for the Home Department when he pointed out
W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 332 of 531 that after coming into force the Human
Rights Act, 1988 (w.e.f. 2.10.2000), the British system which was once based
on the principle of parliamentary supremacy, has now moved on to the system of
constitutional supremacy. In this regard, reference was made to the
pronouncement of the Canadian Supreme Court reported at (1998) 1 SCR 493,
Vriend v. Alberta rendered after the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms
was introduced and Canada had moved from Parliamentary supremacy to
constitutional supremacy.
582\. We also find emphasised in the conclusions of the Law Commission of
India in its 189th Report on Revision of Court Fee Structure that ―the concept
of access to justice, can be understood as constituting an integral part of
the constitutional and common law jurisdictions, and is considered sacrosanct
and attempts to lightly interfere with the right are generally viewed
strictly‖.
583\. To sum up access to justice is an essential part of the fundamental
rights under Articles 14, 16 and 21 of the Constitution of India and
therefore, a fundamental right. It is equally well settled that access to
justice is a basic human right.
"Access to justice" may not be synonymous with "access to courts"
584\. It is essential at this juncture to consider a very important facet of
access to justice which we find has been completely overlooked. ‗Access to
justice' cannot be understood as being W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 333 of 531
synonymous to ‗access to courts' or only to ‗free legal aid'. Our experience
in the courts has shown that apart from economic, technical and geographical
barriers, there are several more basic and inherent barriers to access to
justice.
585\. The discussion about ensuring an environment of accessing justice
presupposes that access to justice is synonymous with access to courts. Hence
it has taken into its purview primarily availability of courts and free legal
aid. Unfortunately, there are several other barriers for accessing justice.
586\. Despite the constitutional and statutory recognition of the rights of
the people and the protections afforded thereunder, the impact of economic
deprivation, social subjugation and emotional separation over centuries has
led to a vicious circle so far as the poor and marginalized are concerned.
Even within the poor and socially excluded, there is a hierarchy. Statistics
show that, more than sixty years after independence, the persons who are of
the disadvantaged castes fall at the very bottom of the poorest of the poor.
587\. The dynamics of the impoverished and socially excluded are not only
economic but, first and foremost, very personal and internalized. It is
important to understand these dynamics so as to understand the direct and
inevitable facet of any additional impediment to their right to access to
justice. Social scientists points out that the dynamics of such impoverishment
is not only W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 334 of 531 about ‗having' nothing but
about ‗being' nothing. The experiences then produce a ‗trap effect' which is
independent of ‗having nothing'.
588\. Even amongst the marginalized, the interface of the severely imbalanced
social, economic and politically poor equations in caste, misogyny and
patriarchy structures impacts one caste (for instance, a Dalit woman) in a
manner which may be distinct from the experience of Dalit men, or women of the
general castes. The social order recognizes neither their social nor economic
contribution and strongly limits their choices and opportunities. Such
marginalization places such person at the bottom in all development
indicators. The result is that such marginalized groups (or individuals) are
prevented from having any access to or control over assets and resources - the
inevitable result is that they are then prevented from accessing justice.
There is neither a right to dignity nor right to equality of such marginalized
groups. They certainly are clueless about all the nuances of the right to
life. Voiceless and subservient, such exploited persons have not even begun to
dream of, let alone taken recourse to accessing justice. It cannot be denied
that a very large percentage of such persons exists in Delhi as well.
589\. The 189th Report of the Law Commission (at page 31) has also noted that
there exists a large body of such persons who are not even conscious that they
have any right, let alone of its violation arising from repression,
governmental omissions or W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 335 of 531 excesses,
administrative lethargy or arbitrariness, or the non- enforcement of
beneficial legislation.
590\. As noted above, Article 14 of the Constitution provides equality before
the law irrespective of caste, creed or religion. Furthermore, Article 15 of
the Constitution prohibits discrimination on grounds of religion, race, caste,
sex or place of birth. Article 16 provides equal opportunities in matters of
public employment, Article 17 of the Constitution provides for abolition of
untouchability, a vice which we have inherited from our caste- ridden past
under which lower castes were considered untouchables.
591\. In addition to the above, Article 23 of the Constitution confers the
right against exploitation, prohibition of traffic in human beings and forced
labour. Similarly Article 24 prohibits employment of children in factories
etc. while Article 25 gives freedom of religion to the citizens including
minorities. Article 29 of the Constitution protects the interest of
minorities, while Article 350A and B of the Constitution, and provide
facilities for instructions in mother tongue at primary stage and for
appointment of a special officer for linguistic minorities by the President of
India.
592\. Various Acts were passed after the independence of India in order to
uplift and assimilate the marginalized into the main stream. The Bonded Labour
(Abolition) Act, 1976, the Child W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 336 of 531 Labour
(Prohibition and Regulation) Act, 1986, Employment of Manual Scavengers and
Constructions of Dry Latrines (Prohibition) Act, 1993, Provision of Panchayat
(Extension to Scheduled Areas) Act, 1996 are few of the endeavours made by the
legislature in the right direction.
593\. Five years after the adoption of the Constitution, the Parliament passed
the Untouchability (Offences) Act, 1955 which in 1976 was renamed the
Protection of Civil Rights Act, 1976. After a lapse of two decades, the SC/ST
(Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989 was passed recognizing punishable
atrocities and creating special courts. It is, therefore, clear that the
required legal protection is there but are the people for whom the said Acts,
been enacted, getting the intended benefits and protections? And if denied,
then do they access the justice system? It is here that we again come back to
the question of access to justice.
594\. Not very far back, in the pronouncement of the Supreme Court reported at
(1986) 4 SCC 767, Bihar Legal Support Society v. Chief Justice of India it was
observed thus:
> ―The weaker sections of Indian humanity have been deprived of justice for
> long, long years: they have had no access to justice on account of their
> poverty, ignorance and illiteracy. They are not aware of the rights and
> benefits conferred upon them by the Constitution and the law. On account of
> their socially and economically disadvantaged position they lack the
> capacity to assert their rights and they do not have the W.P.(C)No.4770/2012
> page 337 of 531 material resources with which to enforce their social and
> economic entitlements and combat exploitation and injustice. The majority of
> the people of our country are subjected to this denial of access to justice
> and, overtaken by despair and helplessness, they continue to remain victims
> of an exploitative society where economic power is concentrated in the hands
> of a few and it is used for perpetuation of domination over large masses of
> human beings. This Court has always, therefore, regarded it as its duty to
> come to the rescue of these deprived and vulnerable sections of Indian
> humanity in order to help them realise their economic and social
> entitlements and to bring to an end their oppression and exploitation. The
> strategy of public interest litigation has been evolved by this Court with a
> view to bringing justice within the easy reach of the poor and the
> disadvantaged sections of the community. This Court has always shown the
> greatest concern and anxiety for the welfare of the large masses of people
> in the country who are living a life of want and destitution, misery and
> suffering and has become a symbol of the hopes and aspirations of millions
> of people in the country. It is, therefore, not correct to say that this
> Court is not giving to the "small men" the same treatment as it is giving to
> the "big industrialists". In fact, the concern shown to the poor and the
> disadvantaged is much greater than that shown to the rich and the well-to-do
> because the latter can on account of their dominant social and economic
> position and large material resources, resist aggression on their rights
> where the poor and the deprived just do not have the capacity or the will to
> resist and fight.‖ W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 338 of 531
595\. Recognition of this very hard reality in law is also stated by the
Supreme Court of India in Guruvayur Devaswom Managing Committee and Anr. v.
C.K. Rajan and Ors AIR 2004 SC 561. It was brought to the notice of the
Supreme Court that the Courts exercising their power of judicial review found
that the poorest of the poor, the depraved, the illiterate, the urban and
rural unorganized labour sector, women, children, handicapped by ignorance,
indigence and illiteracy and other down trodden have either no access to
justice or had been denied justice, leading to the evolution of a new branch
of proceedings known as 'Social Interest Litigation' or 'Public Interest
Litigation' with a view to rendering complete justice to the aforementioned
classes of persons. It expanded its wings in course of time. The courts in
‗pro bono publico' granted relief to the inmates of the prisons, provided
legal aid, directed speedy trial, maintenance of human dignity and covered
several other areas. It is recognition of the right of access to justice and
the necessity of ensuring it which is recognized when the importance of public
interest litigation has been emphasized by the Supreme Court in this decision
in the following terms:
> ―45. Pro bono publico constituted a significant State (sic) in the present
> day judicial system. They, however, provided the dockets with much greater
> responsibility for rendering the concept of justice available to the
> disadvantaged sections of the society.
Public interest litigation has come to stay and its necessity cannot be
overemphasized. The Courts evolved a jurisprudence of compassion. Procedural
propriety was to move over giving place to W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 339 of 531
substantive concerns of the deprivation of rights. The rule of locus standi
was diluted. The Court in place of a disinterested and dispassionate
adjudicator became active participant in the dispensation of justice.‖
596\. Gideon Hausner, Former Attorney General of Israel in his book ‗Justice
in Jerusalem' compiling the record of the Eichmann Trail and the German pogrom
against the Jews and the rest of the world quotes a poignant lullaby composed
at the Wilno Jewish ghetto:-
> ―Hush, my baby, hush, be silent! Here the graves are seen;
> They were planted by the butchers, Still they lie and green.
> Hush, my child; don't cry, my treasure; Weeping is in vain, For the enemy
> will never Understand our pain.
For the ocean has its limits, Prisons have their walls around, But our
suffering and torment Have no limit and no bound.‖ This lament by a parent
with regard to the atrocities on the Jewish people sums up the sufferings of a
large number of disadvantaged people still suffering in this country as well
as in this city. This lullaby has also been noted by Justice V.R. Krishna Iyer
in the judgment reported at AIR 1981 SC 298 ABSK Sangh W.P.(C)No.4770/2012
page 340 of 531 (Railways) v. Union of India.
597\. A recent study on access to justice commissioned by the European
Commission titled ―Study on Access to Justice and Legal Aid in the
Mediterranean Partner Countries,‖ measured the level of access to courts on
several grounds.
598\. Any examination of the issue of impact of the court fee amendment on
access to justice would be incomplete without consideration of gender
implications thereof. A study was also conducted by the Government of Uganda
while developing a justice, law and order sector wide reform programme. In
this study, a balance sheet of 15 barriers and a comparison of the
implications of the same to men and women was drawn up.
599\. Amongst the several barriers identified, the two which deserve to be
extracted for the purposes of highlighting the gender implications of limited
access on account of restricted financial capacity are: (i) with respect to
access to justice delivery agencies, it must be recalled that a majority of
women will have less time and money than men to pursue access; (ii) with
respect to treatment in the justice delivery system, it must be recalled that
women are more likely to be illiterate, less likely to have access to
financial resources, and are often relegated to the domestic sphere which
limits their interaction with, and comfort in, public institutions. We have
discussed earlier the direct adverse effect of imposition of high court fee on
the accessibility of the courts to women seeking W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 341
of 531 enforcement of basic rights as maintenance, residence etc.
600\. The above discussion elucidates the difficult reality that for many in
this country, access to justice may not be synonymous with access to courts.
The position in Delhi would not be very different as it is the destination for
lakhs from all over the country who make their way to the capital looking for
opportunity and relief from social and economic subjugation and misery.
601\. For a large percentage of the Delhi population as well there is really
no understanding of their legal rights, or, if aware of their rights, are
unable to understand the violations thereof, or to approach the court for
enforcement for a host of reasons. To this large group, access to justice is
not synonymous.
Court fee: an entry point financial barrier to access to justice?
602\. It is now necessary to examine the impact of imposition of court fee.
The court fee prescription undisputedly provides an entry point barrier to
access to justice. Once again, international sources are instructive. For
example, the United States Institute of Peace Report titled Guiding Principles
for Stablization and Reconstruction defines financial access as a necessary
condition of access to justice. The report goes to emphasize:
> ―Access to justice is more than improving an individual's access to courts
> or guaranteeing legal representatives. Access to justice is defined as the
> ability of people to seek and obtain a remedy through formal or informal
> institutions of justice for W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 342 of 531 grievances
> in compliance with human rights standards. There is no access to justice
> where citizens (especially marginalized groups) fear the system, see it as
> alien, and do not access it; where the justice system is financially
> inaccessible; where individuals have no lawyers; where they do not have
> information or knowledge of rights; or where there is a weak justice system.
> Access to justice involves normative legal protection, legal awareness,
> legal aid and counsel, adjudication, enforcement, and civil society
> oversight ... Courthouses and police stations may only exist in urban,
> populated areas, leaving the rest of the country without proper access to
> the formal justice system. Bring judges, prosecutors, defense counsel, court
> administrative staff (including translators), police, and corrections
> officials, as well as logistical/security support and public information
> capacity to areas where the justice system has ceased to function. While
> mobile courts may be needed in the emergency phase to deal with the most
> acute needs, they can also provide a long-term solution to endemic access to
> justice challenges. Efforts to build and staff courthouses and police posts
> outside of urban areas should also be undertaken to increase access to
> justice.‖
603\. It advocates equal access in para 7.8.3 in the following terms:
> ―In societies emerging from conflict, large segments of the population may
> not have had access justice.
Equal access involves extending the reach of formal rule of law institutions
to the population by removing barriers to their use. Strengthening access also
involves engaging the informal sector to enhance its reach, effectiveness, and
compliance with human W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 343 of 531 rights standards.‖
(Emphasis by us)
604\. The Supreme Court of the United States, for example, has held that court
fees that limit access to those judicial proceedings that are necessary to
resolve disputes are unlawful. In Boddie v. Connecticut, 401 US 371 (1971),
the Supreme Court of the United States considered a challenge by welfare
recipients to certain state procedures, including the payment of court fees,
that allegedly limited the plaintiffs' access to the courts for divorce. The
plaintiffs were unable to commence divorce actions simply because they could
not afford the court fees of approximately $60 (roughly 3600 INR). Mr. Justice
Harlan, writing for the Court, emphasized that:
> ―Due process requires, at a minimum, that absent a countervailing state
> interest of overriding significance, persons forced to settle their claims
> of right and duty through the judicial process must be given a meaningful
> opportunity to be heard. Early in our jurisprudence, this court voiced the
> doctrine that ‗wherever one is assailed in his person or his property, there
> he may defend.'‖ The Court went on to hold:
> ―We conclude that the State's refusal to admit these appellants to its
> courts, the sole means in Connecticut for obtaining a divorce, must be
> regarded as the equivalent of denying them an opportunity to be heard upon
> their claimed right to a dissolution of their W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 344
> of 531 marriages, and, in the absence of a sufficient countervailing
> justification for the State's action, a denial of due process.‖ (Underlining
> by us)
> 605\. On this aspect, in the 189th Report, the Law Commission writing in
> February, 2004 has placed reliance on the following famous extract of the
> speech of Justice Brennan of the US Supreme Court delivered to the Legal Aid
> Society of New York:
> ―Nothing rankles more in the human heart than a brooding sense of injustice.
> Illness we can put up with, but injustice makes us want to pull things down.
> When only the rich can enjoy the law, as a doubtful luxury, and the poor who
> need it most, cannot have it because its expense puts it beyond their reach,
> the threat to the existence of free democracy is not imaginary but very
> real, because democracy's very life depends upon making the machinery of
> justice so effective that every citizen shall believe in the benefit of
> impartiality and fairness.‖
> 606\. The 189th Report also stresses as follows:
> ―The right of access to justice is integral to the rule of law and
> administration of courts in accordance with the Constitution. It serves as
> the guiding principle in regard to any measure that affects the
> administration of justice whether civil or criminal. The socio-
> economic realities of our country have thus far impacted every measure of
> legal reform. It assumes even greater significance when it involves an
> element of economic and financial reform.‖ W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 345 of
> 531
607\. The above discussion amply emphasises the essentiality of justice
dispensation system not only for dispute redressal but also for ameliorating
the plight of those whom development has left behind, and are struggling to
survive.
608\. Emerging jurisprudence from the Canadian province of British Columbia
departs from the strict approach of the US Supreme Court, which appears to
protect poor persons from court fees they cannot afford only when their
dispute cannot be resolved by non-judicial means.
609\. We are noting these significant facts and jurisprudence as they exhibit
the profile of the litigant in our courts and manifest the court's concern, in
India and abroad, with the ability of all citizens to access courts and
justice, their fundamental human right.
610\. Dr. B.R. Ambedkar (our first Union Law Minister) as Chairperson of the
Constituent Assembly reminded us that social justice is the soul of the
Constitution of India when he had stated the following on the floor of the
Constituent Assembly on the 25th of November, 1949:
> ―On the 26th January, 1950, we are going to enter upon into a life of
> contradictions.
> In politics we will have equality and in social and economic life we will
> have inequality.
> In politics we will be recognizing the principle of one man one vote and one
> vote one value.
> W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 346 of 531 In our social and economic life, we
> shall by reason of our social and economic structure, continue to deny the
> principle of one man one value.
> How long shall we continue to deny equality in our social and economic life?
> If we continue to deny it for long, we will do so only by putting our
> political democracy in peril. We must remove this contradiction at the
> earliest possible moment else those who suffer from inequality will blow up
> the structure of democracy which this Constituent Assembly has so
> laboriously built up.‖
611\. These words reflect the visionary appeal of the Constitution- makers
when it was made. But if we look at the abject poverty, the social structures
still in place, the deprivation that marks the daily lives of millions of
people in this country (and this city), these words were certainly prophetic.
The practices in vogue, the violations of the fundamental rights, the violence
that marks daily lives of many and the events of today, the inadequate
protection and incomplete propagation of constitutional values in reality
reflects that much more needs to be done. It manifests that the concerns
voiced by Dr. Ambedkar may very well be a stark account of why society is what
it is today. This hard reality reinforces the essentiality of a responsive and
adequate judicial system, and the significance of meaningful access to
justice, militating against enhancement of court fee, a recognized barrier to
its access.
W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 347 of 531
612\. The 189th Law Commission Report has also referred to the statement made
by V.R. Krishna Iyer, J. in the article titled ―Appointments and
Disappointments‖ published in ―The Hindu‖ dated 10th October, 2003 that
―Access to justice is basic to human rights and Directive Principles of State
Policy become ropes of sand, teasing illusion and promise of unreality, unless
there is effective means for the common people to reach the Court, seek remedy
and enjoy the fruits of law and justice. Undeniably, the most strategic office
in the overall scheme of governance of the country is the judiciary.‖
613\. Some of the problems which have been articulated in several writings on
access to justice in India include economic barriers, illiteracy and lack of
awareness; ignorance of rights and legal remedies; fear/lack of trust in
judicial institution; fear of reprisal/social ostracism; legal complexity and
technicalities; psychological bars; lack of uniformity; delays in the legal
system; lastly but most important, the circumstance that courts are the last
resort for most people who first access resources closest to them that is
their family, extended family, friend circles, social systems or groups and
perhaps only thereafter, legal systems - after all else fails. This discussion
is relevant to understand the Indian reality, which is the Delhi reality as
well, that for several, any additional financial burden in the nature of
enhanced court fee would completely shut out legal remedy for relief and
redressal.
614\. Given the above noted severe limitations faced by huge body
W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 348 of 531 of Indian population, the requirement of
payment of court fee for a claim to access adjudication is an insurmountable
barrier at the very entry point of the court. Raising court fees to such an
extent that not only the poor but the disadvantaged and marginalized (whether
be it on account of caste, gender, disability, age, education or any other
reason) can no longer access courts, rendering their several constitutional
and human rights meaningless.
615\. It is well settled that the level of access afforded to individuals,
groups, and communities, can be evaluated on three standards:
(i) Physical access, including the geographic proximity of, as well as ease of
entry afforded to, law enforcement agencies and more importantly, the courts;
(ii) Financial access, including the affordability of legal services and court
processes;
(iii) Technical access, including the relative complexity of procedural
requirements and legal language, the treatment public officials afford those
attempting to access the justice system, and other practical obstacles that
may stand in the way of those who wish to make proper use of the courts.
616\. A dynamic relationship exists between these parameters and, they cannot
be considered in isolation. For instance, if the cost of navigating the
justice system is too high, physical or technical access to courts becomes
irrelevant. Conversely, financial access W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 349 of 531
becomes irrelevant if users cannot reach courthouses or other physical
structures in which justice is meted out. Likewise, a justice system that is
too complex will deter prospective litigants, irrespective of the
affordability of litigation or the accessibility of the physical structures
that make up the justice system.
617\. The instant case is concerned with financial barriers to access to the
court system. In (2009) 13 SCC 729, Vishnu Dutt Sharma v. Daya Sapra, the
Supreme Court of India opined that ―any person may as of right have access to
the courts of justice.‖ Moreover, in (2003) 6 SCC 230, Dwarka Prasad Agarwal
v. B.D. Agarwal, the Court also held that ―any procedure which comes in the
way of a party in getting a fair trial would be violative of Article 14 of the
Constitution of India.‖ Finally, in (2011) 8 SCC 568, Delhi Jal Board v.
National Campaign For Dignity and Rights of Sewerage and Allied Workers, the
Supreme Court clarified that Article 39A of the Constitution of India requires
the state to secure the just operation of the legal system ―on a basis of
equal opportunity‖ and to ―ensure that opportunities for securing justice are
not denied to any citizen by reason of economic or other disabilities.‖ It
appears to be settled law, then, that access to courts, which would include
financial access amongst others, is an essential part of the fundamental and
constitutionally protected rights of the rights to access to justice and to
equal treatment before the law.
618\. Although the approach to the issue of court fees and its
W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 350 of 531 impact on access to justice varies from
jurisdiction to jurisdiction, courts throughout the common law world
consistently note the potentially deleterious effect court fees may have on
potential, especially indigent litigants.
619\. While it is trite law that regard for public welfare is the highest law
(salus populi est suprema lex), it is necessary to outline judicial standards
by which this principle may be evaluated. In the context of access to justice,
again international sources provide helpful guides to outline the basic
content of the right to access.
620\. American jurisprudence also clearly demonstrates that access to courts
is a valued and protected right. In 541 US 509 (2004), Tennessee v. Lane, the
Supreme Court of the United States had opportunity to consider the claim of
two paraplegic claimants who relied on wheelchairs for mobility. They claimed
that they were denied access to, and the services of, the state court system
by reason of their disabilities. One claimant, Lane, alleged that he was
compelled to appear to answer a set of criminal charges on the second floor of
a county courthouse that had no elevator. At his first appearance, Lane
crawled up two flights of stairs to get to the court room. When Lane returned
to the courthouse for a subsequent hearing, he refused to crawl again or to be
carried by officers to the courtroom and was consequently arrested and jailed
for failure to appear. The other claimant, Jones, was a certified court
reporter and alleged that she has not been able to gain access to a number of
county courthouses that were not accessible to the W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page
351 of 531 disabled. As a result, she lost the opportunity to work and earn
and to participate in the judicial process. In considering their claims, the
US Supreme Court confirmed the right of physical access in a number of
contexts, and asserted that these were constitutionally guaranteed and subject
―to more searching judicial review.‖ Thus, in the US context, physical access
includes access of disabled persons to the courts, the right of a criminal
defendant to be present ―at all stages of the trial where his absence might
frustrate the fairness of the proceedings,‖ the right of civil litigants to a
―meaningful opportunity to be heard‖ by removing obstacles to their
participation in judicial proceedings, and the right of access of members of
the public to criminal proceedings.
621\. Some of the cases filed before the European Court of Human Rights also
consider the contours of the right of access to courts. The source of the
right is drawn from Article 6 of the European Convention of Human Rights which
reads as follows:-
> ―ARTICLE 6
> 1\. In the determination of his civil rights and obligations or of any
> criminal charge against him, everyone is entitled to a fair and public
> hearing within a reasonable time by an independent and impartial tribunal
> established by law. Judgement shall be pronounced publicly by the press and
> public may be excluded from all or part of the trial in the interest of
> morals, public order or national security in a democratic society, where the
> interests of juveniles or the protection of the private life of the parties
> so require, or the extent strictly necessary in W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 352
> of 531 the opinion of the court in special circumstances where publicity
> would prejudice the interests of justice.‖
622\. In the decision dated 21st February, 1975 reported at (1979-
80) 1 EHRR 524, Golder v. United Kingdom, there was a serious disturbance in
October 1969 in prison where the applicant was imprisoned. The next day, the
applicant was tentatively identified by a prison officer as a participant in
the incident, following which he was placed in segregation and given notice
that disciplinary proceedings might be brought against him. The letters that
he wrote to his Member of Parliament and a Chief Constable, about the incident
were stopped by the prison governor. In November, the prison officer withdrew
his allegation and the applicant was returned to his ordinary cell. The
charges against the applicant were not proceeded with and a note to this
effect was placed in his prison record which nevertheless carried entries
about the incident. In March 1970, the applicant sought permission to consult
a solicitor with a view to instituting libel proceedings against the prison
officer. Before the European Commission of Human Rights, the applicant filed a
complaint alleging breaches of Articles 6(1) and 8. The Court noted that in
petitioning the Home Secretary for leave to consult a solicitor with a view to
suing the official for libel, Golder was seeking to exculpate himself of the
charge made against him by that prison officer on 25th October, 1969 and which
had entailed for him unpleasant consequences, some of which still
W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 353 of 531 subsisted by 20th March, 1970.
Furthermore, the contemplated legal proceedings would have concerned an
incident which was connected with prison life and had occurred while the
applicant was imprisoned. The intended proceedings would have been directed
against a member of the prison staff who had made the charge in the course of
his duties and who was subject to the Home Secretary's authority.
623\. In these circumstances, the Court held that Golder could justifiably
wish to consult a solicitor with a view to instituting legal proceedings. It
was not for the Home Secretary to appraise the prospects of the action
contemplated; it was for an independent and impartial court to rule on any
claim that might be brought. In declining to accord the leave which had been
requested, the Home Secretary failed to respect, in the person of Golder, the
right to go before a court as guaranteed by Article 6(1). It was observed that
the right of access constitutes an element which is inherent in the right
stated by Article 6(1) and that Article 6(1) secures to everyone the right to
have any claim relating to his civil rights and obligations brought before a
court or tribunal. In this way, the article embodies the ‗right to a court',
of which the right of access, that is the right to institute proceedings
before courts in civil matters, constitutes one aspect only. To this are added
the guarantees laid down by Article 6(1) as regards both the organisation and
composition of the court, and the conduct of the proceedings. In sum, the
whole makes up the right to a fair W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 354 of 531
hearing.
624\. It had been further observed that in civil matters, ―one can scarcely
conceive of the rule of law without there being a possibility of having access
to the courts.‖ In Golder, the court was concerned with an impediment caused
by the prohibition imposed by the Home Secretary. The court emphasized the
importance of the accessibility of the court as a constituent of the rights
guaranteed by Article 6 of the European Convention of Human Rights.
625\. In yet another decision of the European Convention of Human Rights
reported at (1979-80) 2 EHR 305, Airey v. Ireland, the applicant Mrs. Airey
was seeking judicial separation from a physically abusive husband. As she was
unable to conclude a separation, the applicant wished to petition for a
judicial separation in the Irish High Court but she lacked the means to employ
the services of a lawyer and in the absence of legal aid, civil proceedings
was not available to her. She was unable to conclude a separation agreement
with her husband despite trying for eight years prior to 1972 for which reason
she was compelled to seek redressal from the court. Since June 1972, she was
endeavouring to obtain a decree of judicial separation on the grounds of Mr.
Airey's alleged physical and mental cruelty to her and her children and she
had consulted several solicitors in this connection. However, she had been
unable, in the absence of legal aid and not being in a financial position to
meet herself the costs involved, to W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 355 of 531 find a
solicitor willing to act for her. In an application to the Commission, Mrs.
Airey urged that these facts constituted violation of Article 6 (i.e. the
right to fair hearing in the determination of civil rights) by reason of the
fact that her right to access to court was effectively denied as she lacked
the financial means, in the absence of legal aid to retain a solicitor.
626\. Her complaint was investigated by the commission which reported that the
approximate range of costs incurred by a legally represented petitioner was
£500 - £700 in an uncontested action and £800 - £1,200 in a contested action,
the exact amount depending on such factors as the number of witnesses and the
complexity of the issues involved. In the case of a successful petition by a
wife, the general rule is that the husband will be ordered to pay all costs
reasonably and properly incurred by her, the precise figure being fixed by a
Taxing Master. Legal aid was not available in Ireland for the purpose of
seeking a judicial separation, nor indeed for any civil matters.
627\. Mrs. Airey had made an application on 14th June, 1983 to the European
Commissioner for Human Rights making various complaints in connection with the
1972 proceedings against her husband. So far as violation of Article 6(1) was
concerned, it was urged that her rights under the said Article were violated
by the reason that the right to access to court was effectively denied. The
European Commission accepted her application on 7 th July, 1977 so far as her
complaint of inaccessibility of the remedy of judicial W.P.(C)No.4770/2012
page 356 of 531 separation was concerned. The government took up the plea that
Mrs. Airey's claim was a civil action and that there was no prohibition to her
access to the court inasmuch as it was open to her to appear in person
therefore, there was no deliberate attempt by the State to impede access. The
court considered the issue and held as follows:-
> ―The Court is aware that the further realisation of social and economic
> rights is largely dependent on the situation - notably financial - reigning
> in the State in question. On the other hand, the Convention must be
> interpreted in the light of present-day conditions and it is designed to
> safeguard the individual in a real and practical way as regards those areas
> with which it deals. Whilst the Convention sets forth what are essentially
> civil and political rights, many of them have implications of a social or
> economic nature. The Court therefore considers, like the Commission, that
> the mere fact that an interpretation of the Convention may extend into the
> sphere of social and economic rights should not be a decisive factor against
> such an interpretation; there is no water-tight division separating that
> sphere from the field covered by the Convention.
> The Court does not, moreover, share the Government's view as to the
> consequence of the Commission's opinion.
It would be erroneous to generalize the conclusion that the possibility to
appear in person before the High Court does not provide Mrs. Airey with an
effective right of access; that conclusion does not hold good for all cases
concerning "civil rights and obligations" or for everyone involved therein. In
W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 357 of 531 certain eventualities, the possibility of
appearing before a court in person, even without a lawyer's assistance, will
meet the requirements of Article 6(1); there may be occasions when such a
possibility secures adequate access even to the High Court. Indeed, much must
depend on the particular circumstances.
In addition, whilst Article 6(1) guarantees to litigants an effective right of
access to the courts for the determination of their "civil rights and
obligations", it leaves to the State a free choice of the means to be used
towards this end. The institution of a legal aid scheme - which Ireland now
envisages in family law matters - constitutes one of those means but there are
others such as, for example, a simplification of procedure. In any event, it
is not the Court's function to indicate, let alone dictate, which measures
should be taken; all that the Convention requires is that an individual should
enjoy his effective right of access to the courts in conditions not at
variance with Article 6(1).
The conclusion appearing at the end of paragraph 24 above does not therefore
imply that the State must provide free legal aid for every dispute relating to
a "civil right".‖ This case in fact obliterates the obligations which the
State discharges so far as the distinction between civil and criminal rights
of litigants in civil and criminal action were concerned.
628\. Judgments have been passed under Article 6 of the ECHR wherein
applicants have complained that their right to access W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page
358 of 531 justice had been violated by state parties because of court fee
levies, shed light on the issue before us. In this regard reference may be
made to the decision of the European Court of Human rights in Kreuz v Poland
(Application No.28249/95 decided on 19th June, 2001. In this case, the
applicant alleged a breach of Article 6.1 of the Convention stating that he
had not enjoyed the right of access to a ‗tribunal' because he had to desist
from making his claim to a civil court on account of his inability to pay the
excessively high court fees required under the Polish Law for lodging that
claim. This contention of the applicant was decided by ECHR in the following
terms:
> ―60. The Court accordingly holds that the requirement to pay fees to civil
> courts in connection with claims they are asked to determine cannot be
> regarded as a restriction on the right of access to a court that is
> incompatible per se with Article 6 and 1 of the Convention.
> It reiterates, however, that the amount of the fees assessed in the light of
> the particular circumstances of a given case, including the applicant's
> ability to pay them, and the phase of the proceedings at which that
> restriction has been imposed are factors which are material in determining
> whether or not a person enjoyed his right of access and had ―a... hearing by
> a tribunal‖...
66\. Assessing the facts of the case as a whole and having regard to the
prominent place held by the right to a court in a democratic society, the
Court considers that the judicial authorities failed to secure a proper
balance between, on the one hand, the interest of the W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page
359 of 531 State in collecting court fees for dealing with claims and, on the
other hand, the interest of the applicant in vindicating his claim through the
courts.
The fee required from the applicant for proceeding with his action was
excessive. It resulted in his desisting from his claim and in his case never
being heard by a court. That, in the Court's opinion, impaired the very
essence of his right of access.
67\. For the above reasons, the Court concludes that the imposition of the
court fees on the applicant constituted a disproportionate restriction on his
right of access to a court. It accordingly finds that there has been a breach
of Article 6.1 of the Convention.‖ The Kreuz‟s case involved the cost of the
initial audience of the court for redressal of the applicant's grievance.
629\. In Stankov v. Bulgaria (Application No.68490/01 decided on 12th July,
2007, the ECHR was concerned with the recovery of court fee from the
compensation awarded by the court for ‗unlawful pre trial detention' and the
‗unlawful bringing of charges'. The ECHR held as follows:
> ―20. By section 10 and 2 of the State Responsibility for Damage Act, in
> proceedings under the Act, no court fees or costs are payable by the
> plaintiff upon the submission of the claim. However, in circumstances where
> the claim is eventually wholly or partly dismissed, the court is to order
> the plaintiff to pay ―the court fees and costs due‖...
21\. ... where the plaintiff indicted too high an amount in the claim form,
the court fees may exceed W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 360 of 531 the sum awarded
in damages, the overall financial award being in favour of the State despite
the finding that the plaintiff suffered damage which called for compensation
under the Act...
52\. The requirement to pay fees to civil courts in connection with claims
they are asked to determine cannot be regarded as a restriction on the right
of access to a court that is incompatible per se with Article 6 and 1 of the
Convention. However, the amount of the fees assessed in the light of the
particular circumstances of a given case is a material factor in determining
whether or not a person enjoyed his right of access...
54\. The Convention is intended to guarantee not rights that are theoretical
or illusory but rights that are practical and effective...‖ (Underlining by
us) The court was of the view that the applicant must have suffered distress
in the court process and would have suffered damages on account of violation
of Article 6 of the European Human Rights Convention.
630\. In another case before the ECHR, Kijewska v. Poland (Application
No.73002/01, decided on 6th December, 2007) the applicant was unable to pay
court fees in the first and second attempt rectifying an entry in the local
land register. Her request for exemption from court fees on the basis that she
was at that time receiving benefits from the State did not allow her to put
aside money towards court fees was denied by the court twice. On third
W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 361 of 531 attempt, she did not ask to be exempted
and paid the relevant court fees. The judicial authorities had refused to
accept the petitioner's argument that she was unable to pay the court fee and
they assessed her financial situation solely on the ground that she was a
lawyer and for that reason could not be considered poor. Her yearly income was
equated to the monthly income. The judicial authorities therefore concluded
that the applicant had sufficient funds to pay the court fee in question.
The ECHR considered the matter and observed that the monthly amount being
received by her from the State was her only asset and it did not seem
reasonable to demand that she spend it on the payment of court fees rather
than on her basic living needs. It was further observed that domestic courts
could have and should have considered the possibility of partially exempting
the applicant from payment of the court fees due in the proceedings. The ECHR
further considered the right to access to justice of the applicant and made
the following observations:-
> ―46. Under the circumstances and having regard to the importance of the
> right to a court in a democratic society, the Court considers that the
> judicial authorities failed to secure a proper balance between the interest
> of the State in collecting court fees on the one hand, and the interest of
> the applicant in pursuing her civil claim on the other.
47\. For the above reasons, the Court concludes that the refusal to reduce the
fee for lodging the applicant's claim constituted a disproportionate
W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 362 of 531 restriction on her right of access to a
court. It accordingly finds that there has been a breach of Article 6 and 1 of
the Convention.‖ It has therefore been held that the refusal to reduce the fee
for lodging the applicant's claim constituted a disproportionate restriction
on her right to access to a court and, therefore, there has been a breach of
Article 6(1) of the Convention. The above discussion abundantly establishes
that imposition of court fee adversely impacts the right of access to justice
of a large population in Delhi. Its enhancement shall effectively shut the
doors of legal redressal for violation or denial of the rights of this group.
Ensuring access to justice and impact of court fee
631\. So far as enforcement of the right to access justice in India is
concerned, a discussion of recognized State obligations on this issue is
necessary. Certain constitutional provisions are relevant to this
consideration. First, the Preamble and Article 38 mandate that the State must
secure and protect as effectively as it may, a social order in which justice
(social, economic and political) shall be available to its citizens. Article
39A was introduced into the Constitution in 1976 for the purpose of making
this promise a reality. Reference is made to Article 38 as well. These
constitutional provisions read as follows:
―38. State to secure a social order for the W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 363 of
531 promotion of welfare of the people.--(1) The State shall strive to promote
the welfare of the people by securing and protecting as effectively as it may
a social order in which justice, social, economic and political, shall inform
all the institutions of the national life.
(2) The State shall, in particular, strive to minimise the inequalities in
income, and endeavour to eliminate inequalities in status, facilities and
opportunities, not only amongst individuals but also amongst groups of people
residing in different areas or engaged in different vocations.
39A. - Equal Justice and Free Legal Aid The State shall secure that the
operation of the legal system promotes justice, on the basis of equal
opportunity, and shall, in particular, provide free legal aid, by suitable or
schemes or in any other way, to ensure that opportunities for securing justice
are not denied to any citizen by reason of economic or other disabilities.‖
632\. ‗Due process' was consciously disembodied from Article 21. However,
Article 22 was incorporated which provided protection against arrest and
detention in certain cases.
633\. In AIR 1990 Cal 146, United Bank of India v. Rashyan Udyog and Others,
the Calcutta High Court, has held as follows:
> ―The principles enshrined in Art. 38 and 39A, like all other directive
> principles in Part IV of the Constitution, are, as declared in Art. 37
> itself, ―fundamental in the governance of the country‖ and
> W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 364 of 531 the judiciary also...these principles as
> enshrined in Art. 38 and Art. 39A must also be taken to be fundamental in
> the administration of justice...‖
634\. The 189th Report of the Law Commission notes that the right to access to
courts includes the right to legal aid and engaging counsel.
635\. In (1980) 1 SCC 81, Hussainara Khatoon v. Home Secy.,State of Bihar, the
Supreme Court pointed out that Article 39A comprises the right to free legal
services, and that this right is an inalienable element of ―reasonable, fair
and just‖ procedure and that the right to free legal services was implicit in
the guarantee of Article 21. This pronouncement is recognition of the right to
free legal services as an essential component of access to justice.
636\. This position was reiterated by Bhagwati, J. in (1986) 2 SCC 401, Suk
Das v. Union Territory of Arunachal Pradesh stating that:
> ―5. ...It may therefore now be taken as settled law that free legal
> assistance at State cost is a fundamental right of a person accused of an
> offence which may involve jeopardy to his life or personal liberty and this
> fundamental right is implicit in the requirement of reasonable, fair and
> just procedure prescribed by Article 21. ...‖
637\. The court also established the linkage between Article 21 and the right
to expeditious trial in Hussainara Khatoon v. State of W.P.(C)No.4770/2012
page 365 of 531 Bihar, (supra). In the course of expressing its astonishment
at the plight of thousands of accused languishing in the jails of Bihar for
years on end without legal representation, the Court declared expeditious
trial also as part of right to life. It would thus also be an important fact
of access to justice. It was held that:
> ―There can be no doubt that speedy trial, and by speedy trial we mean
> reasonably expeditious trial, is an integral and essential part of the
> fundamental right to life and liberty enshrined in Article 21.‖
638\. In a celebrated pronouncement authored by Justice V.R. Krishna Iyer
reported at (1978) 3 SCC 544, M.H. Hoskot v. State of Maharashtra, it was
declared that ―if a prisoner sentenced to imprisonment is virtually unable to
exercise his constitutional and statutory right of appeal, inclusive of
special leave to appeal, for want of legal assistance, there is implicit in
the Court under Article 142, read with Articles 21 and 39-A of the
Constitution, power to assign counsel for such imprisoned individual ‗for
doing complete justice...‖ The court yet again reiterated the importance of
ensuring access to justice in the real sense.
639\. We may note the right to legal aid as an essential component of
meaningful access to justice is now firmly entrenched in Section 12 of the
Legal Services Authorities Act, 1987 which provides that legal aid shall be
available both on the means test as well as the merits test. The above
narration and developments only underline the concerns in this country to
ensure access to justice to the W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 366 of 531
disadvantaged who are economically deprived as well. The numbers are not small
and the challenge is certainly daunting.
640\. The question which brooks an answer is that would not imposing court
fees that restricts access to courts of the very persons targeted by the legal
aid schemes be contradictory to the spirit, intendment and purpose of the
Legal Services Authorities Act 1987? Availability of the statutory right to
legal aid would thereby be rendered inconsequential.
641\. The right to access justice is recognized as a basic human right which
has to be in ensured to all litigants. It is equally well recognized that this
right is not absolute, and that some limitations on the right to access courts
may be permissible if they have a legitimate purpose and are proportional to
the objectives sought to be achieved.
642\. It is noteworthy that limits on access to courts including those imposed
by court fees clearly disproportionately affect the right of the poor to
access justice vis-a-vis the rights of those economically empowered to
approach the courts.
643\. The above facts, the recommendations of the Law Commission and the
articulations by the Supreme Court reflect the considerations and concerns
which must weigh with the executive while framing policies and the legislature
while enacting legislation. The approach and objective can be no different, be
it the legislature or the executive. Every action of the executive and
W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 367 of 531 the legislature has to meet the standards
and benchmarks constitutionally recognized as well as interpreted and expanded
by the Supreme Court.
644\. It is well settled that any barrier to access to the court must
therefore ensure that it does not have the effect of unreasonably adversely
impacting the constitutional right of access to justice of any person. Any
action which adversely impacts constitutional rights, especially access to
justice to and of all, would thus not be legally sustainable.
Administration of justice - a State responsibility
645\. The constitutional scheme noted by us and the dicta from the Supreme
Court underlines the responsibility of the State to maintain a system for the
administration of justice in order to make practical the principle of access
to justice.
646\. The three essential functions of the State are entrusted to the three
organs of the State- the legislature, executive and judiciary and each one of
them represents the authority of the State. It has been repeatedly held that
administration of justice is a sovereign function of the State. Judicial
service is also not considered as service in the sense of employment and all
judges are discharging functions while exercising sovereign judicial power of
the State. (Ref : AIR 2003 SC 4303, Nawal Singh v. State of U.P. and (1978)2
SCC 213, Bangalore Water Supply and Sewerage Board v. A. Rajappa)
W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 368 of 531
647\. In the 114th Report on the ―Gram Nyayalaya‖ (1986), the Law Commission
had reiterated that it was the fundamental duty of every government to provide
a mechanism for dispute resolution and had observed as follows:-
> ―It is the fundamental obligation of every centralized governmental
> administration to provide for mechanism for resolution of disputes arising
> within their jurisdiction. No civilized government can escape this
> responsibility. No government can afford to have their citizens perpetually
> engaged in finding solution to their disputes by an unending process which
> may be simultaneously costly and open ended. This fundamental duty cannot be
> disowned under the pretext of non-availability of requisite finance.‖
648\. In making this point, the Commission is also supported by the Supreme
Court of USA which has also held that ―ordinary considerations of cost and
convenience alone cannot justify a State's failure to provide individuals with
a meaningful right of access to the courts‖ [Tennesse v. Lane 541 US 509]. The
above discussion would show that in American jurisprudence, the right of
access is not only well established in law, but also places certain positive
obligations on the state. These include: (i) the duty to waive filing fees in
certain family-law and criminal cases; (ii) the duty to provide transcripts to
criminal defendants seeking review of their convictions; (iii) the duty to
provide counsel to certain criminal defendants; and (iv) the obligation to
accommodate W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 369 of 531 persons with disabilities in
the courtroom. Based on the foregoing, American jurisprudence supports the
existence of a positive duty on the state to guarantee access to the courts,
and especially with respect to those individuals who may face systemic
barriers to entry (including financial), as in the instant case.
649\. With respect to the State's positive obligation to provide a system for
the administration of justice and an appropriate court fee regime, in para 42,
Chapter 22, the 14th Report of the Law Commission in 1958 noted that:
> ―(1) It is one of the primary duties of the State to provide the machinery
> for the administration of justice and on principle it is not proper for the
> state to charge fees from suitors in courts.
> (2) Even if court fees are charged, the revenue derived from them should not
> exceed the cost of the administration of civil justice.
> (3) The making of a profit by the State from the administration of justice
> is not justified.
> (4) Steps should be taken to reduce court fees so that the revenue from it
> is sufficient to cover the cost of the civil judicial establishment.
> Principles analogous to those applied in England should be applied to
> measure the cost of such establishment. The salaries of judicial officers
> should be a charge on the general tax-payer.
> (5) There should be a broad measure of equality in the scales of court fees
> all over the country. There should also be a fixed maximum to the fee
> chargeable.
> W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 370 of 531 (6) The rates of court fees on petitions
> under Articles 32 and 226 of the Constitution should be very low if not
> nominal.
> (7) The fees which are now levied at various stages such as the stamp to be
> affixed on certified copies and exhibits and the like should be abolished.
> (8) When a case is disposed of ex parte or is compromised before the actual
> hearing, half the court fee should be refunded to the plaintiff.
> (9) The court fee payable in an appeal should be half the amount levied in
> the trial court.‖
650\. It is necessary to note the significant general observations made by the
Supreme Court in (1996) 1 SCC 345, Secretary of Govt. of Madras & Anr. v. P.R.
Sriramulu, which the respondents were bound to have considered. The Supreme
Court had observed as follows:
> ―Before parting with these matters, we me may point out that it could not be
> disputed that the administration of justice is a service which the State is
> under an obligation to render to its subject. There can be no two opinions
> that the amount raised from the suitors by way of way of fee should not
> normally exceed the cost of the administration of justice because possibly
> there could be no justification with the State to enrich itself from high
> court fees of to secure revenue for general administration. The total
> receipts from the Court fees should be such as by and large can cover the
> cost of administration of justice.
There should also be some measure of uniformity in W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page
371 of 531 the scales of Court fees throughout the country as there appears to
be a vast difference in the scales of court fees in various States of the
country. The feasibility of a fixed maximum chargeable fee also deserves
serious consideration.‖ (para 22)
651\. With regard to the propounded financial constraints to ensure
fundamental rights to citizens which include access to justice as part of
right to life; right to education etc., in paras 144 and 145 of (2012) 6 SCC
502 Brij Mohan Lal v. Union of India, the Supreme Court reiterated the view
taken in (2008) 6 SCC 1 Asoka Kumar Thakur v. Union of India observing as
follows:-
> ―144. It is in this context that this Court, in Ashoka Kumar Thakur v. Union
> of India & Ors. (2008) 6 SCC 1, while dealing with Right to Education in
> terms of Article 21A of the Constitution, held that financial constraints
> upon the State cannot be a ground to deny fundamental rights to citizens.
> 145\. On a proper examination of the above principles, it can be stated
> without hesitation that wherever the right which is being affected is a
> basic or a fundamental right, the State cannot be permitted to advance an
> argument of financial constraints in such matters. The policy of the State
> has to be in the larger public interest and free from arbitrariness.
Adhocism and uncertainty are the twin factors which are bound to adversely
affect any State policy and its results. The State cannot, in an ad hoc
manner, create new systems while simultaneously giving up or demolishing the
existing systems when the latter have even statistically shown achievement of
results.‖ W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 372 of 531 After a detailed consideration,
the following directions were issued by the court:-
> ―207.8. We hereby direct that it shall be for the Central Government to
> provide funds for carrying out the directions contained in this judgment
> and, if necessary, by re allocation of funds already allocated under the
> 13th Finance Commission for Judiciary. We further direct that for creation
> of additional 10 per cent posts of the existing cadre, the burden shall be
> equally shared by the Centre and the State Governments & funds be provided
> without any undue delay so that the courts can be established as per the
> schedule directed in this judgment.‖ (Emphasis by us)
652\. In the judgment reported at (2002) 4 SCC 247, All India Judges
Association v. Union of India, the Supreme Court reiterated the position that
administration of justice is the responsibility of State. So far as any
increase in expenditure was concerned, the States would mobilise the
resources. In para 23 the Supreme Court stated that whenever the State
government will approach the Central government or Planning Commission for
more funds, such request shall be considered favourably. The observations of
the court usefully deserve to be extracted and read as follows:
> ―23. It has not been disputed that at present the entire expense on the
> administration of justice in the States is incurred by the respective
> States. It is their responsibility and they discharge the same. Logically,
> if there is to be any increase in the expenditure on the W.P.(C)No.4770/2012
> page 373 of 531 judiciary, then it would be for the States to mobilise the
> resources in such a way whereby they can meet the expenditure on the
> judiciary for discharging their constitutional obligations. Merely because
> there is an increase in the financial burden as a result of the Setty
> Commission Report being accepted, can be no ground for fastening liability
> on the Union of India when none exists at present. Accordingly, disagreeing
> on this point with Justice Setty Commission recommendations, we direct that
> the entire expenditure on account of the recommendations of the Justice
> Setty Commission, as accepted, be borne by the respective States. It is for
> the States to increase the court fee or to approach the Finance Commission
> or the Union of India for more allocation of funds. They can also mobilise
> their resources in order to meet the financial obligation. If such a need
> arises and the States approach the Finance Commission or the Union of India
> for allocation of more funds, we have no doubt that such a request shall be
> favourably considered.‖ (Emphasis supplied)
653\. The manner of giving grants by the Central government has been
criticized by the National Commission to Review the Working of Constitution
(‗NCRWC' hereafter). In its Consultation Paper on ―Financial Autonomy of the
Indian Judiciary‖, in paras 9.15.1 to 9.15.2, the NCRWC has stated as
follows:-
> ―...There is no exclusive grant by the Centre for Court expenditure. All
> that we have is an insignificant ‗Centrally Sponsored Scheme' for Courts
> prepared by the Planning Commission which allots some monies
> W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 374 of 531 for each State on population basis.
> xxx Further, the present scheme has become nothing but an eye wash for it
> requires the States to provide a matching grant, or else the central grants
> lapses. Most States are not able to provide the matching grants and the
> result is that the central grant lapses. To put it bluntly, the so called
> inclusion of Judiciary as a plan subject is no inclusion at all as it is
> totally unrealistic, unplanned and unrelated to the scenario at the grass
> root level and also at the level of appellate and superior courts.‖
> (Emphasis by us)
654\. We have drawn these references from the 189th Report of the Law
Commission of India on the Revision of Court Fees Structure (February, 2004)
which also notes that the NCRWC in its report in volume I at para 7.6.1 has
further stated thus:-
> ―Judicial administration in the country suffers from deficiencies due to
> lack of proper planning and adequate financial support for establishing more
> courts and providing them with adequate infrastructure. For several decades
> the courts have not been provided with any funds under the five year plans
> nor has the Finance Commission been making any separate provision to serve
> the financial needs of the courts.‖ (Emphasis supplied)
655\. So far as the need for providing financial support to the
W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 375 of 531 judiciary is concerned, in its report in
para 7.8.2, the NCRWC has also emphasized the need for provision of financial
support by the Central government in the administration of justice in the
following terms:-
> ―Government of India should not throw the entire burden of establishing the
> subordinate Courts and maintaining the subordinate judiciary on the State
> Governments. There is a concurrent obligation on the Union Government to
> meet the expenditure on subordinate Courts. Therefore, the Planning
> Commission and the Finance Commission must allocate sufficient funds from
> national resources to meet the demand of the State judiciary in each of the
> States.‖
656\. In support of the above proposition, our attention has been drawn to the
recent pronouncement of the Supreme Court reported at (2012) 6 SCC 502, Brij
Mohan Lal v. Union of India & Ors. In this writ petition, the court was
concerned with creation of fast track courts (‗FTC's). The observations of the
court on the impact of government policy or decision on the independence of
judiciary were noted in the following terms:-
> ―105. The independence of the Indian Judiciary is one of the most
> significant features of the Constitution.
Any policy or decision of the Government which would undermine or destroy the
independence of the judiciary would not only be opposed to public policy but
would also impinge upon the basic structure of the Constitution. It has to be
clearly understood that the State policies should neither defeat nor cause
impediment in discharge of judicial functions. To W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 376
of 531 preserve the doctrine of separation of powers, it is necessary that the
provisions falling in the domain of judicial field are discharged by the
judiciary and that too, effectively.‖ (underlining by us)
657\. The court considered the objection on the refusal by the Union of India
to finance the expenditure on fast track court scheme beyond a particular date
and made the following observations:-
> ―130. The Union of India, of course, has stated that it would not, in any
> case, finance expenditure of the FTC Scheme beyond 30th March, 2011 but some
> of the States have resolved to continue the FTC Scheme upto 2012, 2013 and
> even 2016. A few States are even considering the continuation of the FTC
> Scheme as a permanent feature in their respective States. This, to a large
> extent, has created an anomaly in the administration of justice in the
> States and the entire country. Some of the States would continue with the
> FTC Scheme while others have been forced to discontinue or close it because
> of non-availability of funds.
> xxx xxx xxx
> 135\. Normally, the Government exercises various controls over its
> instrumentalities and the organizations involved in the governance of the
> State.
This would be through financial, administrative or managerial and functional
controls. These parameters of control may be applied to determine whether or
not a particular organization or a body is a ―State‖ within the meaning of
Article 12 of the Constitution. We have noticed these aspects primarily with
the W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 377 of 531 purpose of demonstrating that judicial
functions and judicial powers are one of the essential attributes of a
sovereign State and on considerations of policy, the State transfers its
judicial functions and powers, mainly to the Courts established by the
Constitution, but that does not affect competence of the State to, by
appropriate measures, transfer a part of its judicial functions or powers to
the tribunals or other such bodies. This view is expressed by this Court, in
Associated Cements Companies Ltd. v. P.N. Sharma : AIR 1965 SC 1595.
xxx xxx xxx
137\. Article 21 of the Constitution of India takes in its sweep the right to
expeditious and fair trial. Even Article 39-A of the Constitution recognizes
the right of citizens to equal justice and free legal aid. To put it simply,
it is the constitutional duty of the Government to provide the citizens of the
country with such judicial infrastructure and means of access to justice so
that every person is able to receive an expeditious, inexpensive and fair
trial. The plea of financial limitations or constraints can hardly be
justified as a valid excuse to avoid performance of the constitutional duty of
the Government, more particularly, when such rights are accepted as basic and
fundamental to the human rights of citizens.‖ (Emphasis by us)
658\. In (1994) 6 SCC 205, N. Nagendra Rao & Co. Ltd. v. State of A.P., the
Supreme Court observed that in a welfare State, the functions of the State are
not only the defence of the country or administration of justice or
maintenance of law and order but it W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 378 of 531
extends to regulating and controlling the activities of the people in almost
every sphere - educational, commercial, social, economic and political etc. It
further observed that demarcating the line between sovereign and non-sovereign
powers for which no rational basis survives has largely disappeared. The court
observed that functions such as administration of justice, maintenance of law
and order and repression of crime etc. which are primary and inalienable
functions of a constitutional government, the State cannot claim any immunity.
659\. The issue of the right of the citizens to equal justice as well as
expeditious justice is an essential part of right to life under Article 21 as
well as Article 39 A of the Constitution of India and this was considered by
the Supreme Court in the judgment reported at (2012) 6 SCC 502 Brij Mohan Lal
v. Union of India. Principles provided in prior judgments on the issue of
responsibility of the state to set up court infrastructure and facilities, the
directions in previous judgments were reiterated as well. Para 185, 186 and
189 of this judgment may be considered in extenso and reads as follows:-
> ―185. In Hussainara Khatoon (4) v. State of Bihar [(1980) 1 SCC 98 : 1980
> SCC (Cri) 40] this Court held that: (SCC pp. 107-08, para 10) ―10. ... it is
> also the constitutional obligation of this Court, as the guardian of the
> fundamental rights of the people, as a sentinel on the qui vive, to enforce
> the W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 379 of 531 fundamental right of the accused to
> speedy trial by issuing the necessary directions to the State which may
> include taking of positive action, such as augmenting and strengthening the
> investigative machinery, setting up new courts, building new court houses,
> providing more staff and equipment to the courts, appointment of additional
> Judges and other measures calculated to ensure speedy trial.‖
> 186\. This Court in Sheela Barse (2) v. Union of India [(1986) 3 SCC 632 :
> 1986 SCC (Cri) 352] , while expressing its anguish over mounting arrears of
> criminal cases, particularly in relation to retarded, abandoned or destitute
> children who were facing trial and lodged in protection homes for years,
> issued various directions and held as under: (SCC p. 635, para 3) ―3. ... We
> are, therefore, firmly of the view that every State Government must take
> necessary measures for the purpose of setting up adequate number of courts,
> appointing requisite number of judges and providing them the necessary
> facilities. It is also necessary to set up an institute or academy for
> training of Judicial Officers so that their efficiency may be improved and
> they may be able to regulate and control the flow of cases in their
> respective courts. The problem of arrears of criminal cases in the Courts of
> Magistrates and Additional Sessions Judges has assumed rather disturbing
> proportions and it is a matter of grave urgency to which no State Government
> can afford to be oblivious. But, here, we are not concerned with the
> question of speedy trial for an accused who is not a W.P.(C)No.4770/2012
> page 380 of 531 child below the age of 16 years. That is a question which
> may have to be considered in some other case where this Court may be called
> upon to examine as to what is reasonable length of time for a trial beyond
> which the court would regard the right to speedy trial as violated.‖
> 189\. Keeping in view its constitutional duty, the constitutional rights of
> citizens of this country at large and with reference to the facts of a given
> case, this Court may be duty-bound to amplify and extend the arm of justice
> in accordance with the principle est boni judicis ampliare justiciam non-
> jurisdictionem. The argument that matters of policy are, as a rule, beyond
> the power of judicial review has to be dispelled in light of the consistent
> view of this Court. This Court would be required to take unto itself the
> task of issuing appropriate directions to ensure that the rule of law
> prevails and the constitutional goals are not defeated by inaction either
> when the law requires action or when the policy in question is so arbitrary
> that it defeats the larger public interest.‖
660\. Reference may usefully be made to the pronouncement of the Supreme Court
reported at (1993) 4 SCC 288, All India Judges Association (I) v. Union of
India wherein the court was considering conditions of service of the
subordinate judiciary. The Supreme Court referred to the 14th Report (1958) of
the Law Commission of India wherein the Commission had noted that though we
have been pouring money into a number of activities, the administration of
justice has not seemed to be of enough W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 381 of 531
importance to deserve more financial assistance. On the contrary, in a number
of States not only had the administration of justice been starved so as to
affect its efficiency, but it has also been made to yield revenue to the
State. The Supreme Court also noticed the arguments on behalf of the
Government with regard to inability to bear additional financial burden to
comply with the directions and observed thus:-
> ―16. The contention with regard to the financial burden likely to be imposed
> by the directions in question, is equally misconceived. Firstly, the courts
> do from time to time hand down decisions which have financial implications
> and the Government is obligated to loosen its purse recurrently pursuant to
> such decisions. Secondly, when the duties are obligatory, no grievance can
> be heard that they cast financial burden. Thirdly, compared to the other
> plan and non-plan expenditure, we find that the financial burden caused on
> account of the said directions is negligible. We should have thought that
> such plea was not raised to resist the discharge of the mandatory duties.
> The contention that the resources of all the States are not uniform has also
> to be rejected for the same reasons. The directions prescribe the minimum
> necessary service conditions and facilities for the proper administration of
> justice. We believe that the quality of justice administered and the calibre
> of the persons appointed to administer it are not of different grades in
> different States. Such contentions are ill-suited to the issues involved in
> the present case.‖
661\. The Constitution of India and Supreme Court by judicial
W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 382 of 531 pronouncements have thus unequivocally
declared the obligation of State to provide an arbitrarily and unreasonably
effective and adequate administration of justice system. This constitutional
responsibility cannot be diverted to the consumers of justice.
Differing obligations of the State to provide Civil and Criminal Justice.
662\. This discussion shall be incomplete without noting the distinction which
is drawn between the obligations of the state to provide for a civil and a
criminal justice administration system. Mr. Krishnamani, learned Senior
counsel and Mr. Amit Khemka, learned counsel for the petitioners have relied
extensively on the reports of Law Commission to emphasise the constitutional
duty of the state in this regard.
663\. So far as criminal justice dispensation is concerned, the opinion and
recommendations of the Law Commission are unequivocal. In the 14th Report of
the Law Commission, the Law Commission had recommended that the cost of
administration of public justice (criminal justice) should be borne entirely
by the state. In para 5.1 of the 127th Report, the Law Commission also stated
that it is the duty and obligation of the State to set up courts for
administration of criminal justice and that the State must pay the entire cost
of administration of criminal justice.
664\. The Law Commission has also clarified the differing W.P.(C)No.4770/2012
page 383 of 531 obligations of the State in the context of the civil and the
criminal justice system. Regarding the obligation of the State in the
administration of criminal justice, the Commission has noted:
> ―It is the State which must ensure internal peace. It is part of its duty to
> adopt regulatory measures and it is equally part of its duty to set up forum
> for determining whether a violation of regulatory measures has or has not
> taken place and a punishment need or need not be imposed. This is the
> obligatory duty of the State as part of its sovereign functions. This can be
> broadly comprehended in the expression ‗administration of criminal justice.'
> Ordinarily this being the part of the sovereign functions of the State, no
> fee can be levied for performing the same and also because the system does
> not render any service to the litigant.‖ (128th Report of 1988, ‗Cost of
> Litigation' at para 3.11)
665\. In its 189th Report of 2004 the Law Commission at page 65 writes that:
> ―Just as the State has to maintain a police force to maintain law and order
> within the country and for which no special tax or fee is contemplated, the
> position with regard to the duty of the State to provide a system for
> ‗administration of justice' is no different.‖
666\. The 189th Report on page 71 lays emphasis that since criminal justice is
a sovereign function therefore no court fee is payable. The 189th Law
Commission noted:
W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 384 of 531 ―Administration of justice has two broad
wings: (1) Civil Justice and (2) Criminal Justice. The Law Commission in its
127th Report on ‗Resource Allocation for Infrastructural Service in Judicial
Administration' (1988) discussed distinction between civil and criminal
justice system. The Commission observed at para 5.1 as follows:
> ―The distinguishing feature between the civil justice system and criminal
> justice system lies in the fact that civil justice system provides fora for
> resolution of disputes between individuals, between individuals and the
> State, and even between the State and the States where a party complains of
> wrong being done to it and seeks redress. Administration of criminal justice
> system partakes the character of a regulatory mechanism of the society
> whereby the State enforces discipline in the society by providing fora for
> investigation of crime and punishment.‖
667\. It was thus categorically stated that administration of criminal justice
is the obligatory duty of the State as part of its sovereign functions and
that no fee can be levied for performing the same and also because the system
does not render any service to the litigants.
668\. Regarding the obligation of the State in the administration of civil
justice, the Law Commission had further observed: (128th Report (1988), para
3.12) ―When it comes to civil justice, the approach has to undergo change.
Civil disputes include disputes W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 385 of 531 between an
individual and individual, between individual and groups of individuals,
between group of individuals on one hand and group of individuals on the other
hand and between individuals and group of individuals on one hand and State on
the other....These disputes have to be resolved because a continuous simmering
dispute is not conducive to growth and development of society. However, when
the disputes are between two individuals, say an employer and an employee, a
husband and a wife, or between members of the same family, it is open to them
to choose their own forum to get the dispute resolved. An arbitrator appointed
by the parties for resolution of dispute partakes the character of the court
because parties agree to treat its decision binding. The costs of such
arbitrator has to be met by the parties who agree to refer the disputes to
arbitrator. The arbitrator renders service to the disputes and charges fees.
The position of the State [in civil disputes] is identical to that of an
arbitrator. All parties cannot go continuously in search of an arbitrator.
Parties to a dispute may not agree to go for arbitration. The State,
therefore, sets up courts for administration of civil justice which term will
comprehend all disputes other than those comprehended in administration of
criminal justice. The court would be a readily accessible forum for a party
complaining of violation of his right or a threatened invasion of his right or
denial of his right and he may approach the court and seek redress of his
right grievance. The court enjoys the judicial power of the State and can
force the attendance of the other side to the dispute and adjudicate the
dispute. Nonetheless, the court renders service. And to the extent this is
service, fees, for service is chargeable.‖ (128th Report at para 3.12)
(Emphasis by us) W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 386 of 531 The 189th Law Commission
however notes specifically that collection of court fees cannot impede access
to civil justice.
669\. So far as Delhi is concerned, the demarcation between courts dealing
with civil matters and criminal matters is absolute and inviolable. There is
no inter-mingling or mixing of the two jurisdictions in allocation of work
between Civil Judges and Magistrates. This demarcation is largely maintained
even in the roster allocation in the High Court. Therefore, the reasons which
weighed with the Supreme Court in the case reported at (1996) 1 SCC 345,
Secretary to Government of Madras v. P.R. Sriramulu in rejecting the challenge
to the court fee enactment on the ground that the expenditure which had been
considered for increasing the court fee included the costs of the criminal
jurisdiction system, would have no application to the factual situation in
Delhi. As a result of the clear demarcation, while evaluating the expenditure
incurred by the State on the justice administration system in Delhi, the State
can and has to separately account for the expenditure incurred on the criminal
justice system and that incurred on the civil justice system.
670\. It is also noteworthy that the respondents have not informed us of the
computation of the expenditure which is reflected in the tabulations placed
before the court. The expenditure on the criminal justice system has to be
excluded completely. Also other areas such as the expenditure on lawyers
conducting the cases of the government etc., cannot be included in the cost of
W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 387 of 531 administration of justice. For these
reasons as well, the tabulation placed before the court does not reflect the
distinction required to be maintained between the civil and criminal justice
dispensation system while recovering costs of the service which may be
provided. It is certainly not the disclosure required to be made in order to
justify the need for enhancement of the court fee in accordance with law.
Can access to justice be for a price by way of court fee
671\. Court fee is the ‗price' a litigant is compelled to pay to seek
adjudication from the court of his claim. Having noted the constitutional and
statutory basis for establishing courts, it is necessary to examine whether
access to justice can be for a price. If so, to what extent.
672\. In 2012 BCSC 748, Vilardell v. Dunham, the Supreme Court of British
Columbia also rejected the argument that court fees were necessary thus:
> ―The state's anxious concern for trial efficiency is misplaced. Courts of
> inherent jurisdiction are equipped with all the tools they need to manage
> trials and to deter time wasting, and they use them. It is an incursion upon
> judicial independence for the government to purport to influence the courts
> by manipulating fees. In their focus on particular facts, on individual
> circumstances and on scrupulous adherence to due process, the courts will
> never satisfy the norms of efficiency expected by those who imagine them as
> part of a government run ―justice W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 388 of 531
> system.‖ However the ―justice system‖ is conceived by government, it makes
> its deliveries to the courthouse door, and a different branch takes it from
> there.‖ The court thus concluded:
> "Hearing fees are a barrier to access imposed by one branch of government
> over another. For the reasons I have set out, this creates a
> constitutionally untenable appearance of hierarchy. The court cannot fulfil
> its democratic function as an independent and impartial arbiter between
> government and the individual, or between individuals, if the government
> limits those who may come before the court by means of financial or
> procedural deterrents.‖
> 673\. Since as early as 1958 in its 14th Report of the Law Commission of
> India on the ‗Reform of Judicial Administration', the Law Commission has
> consistently urged that: (i) the provision of a system for the
> administration of justice is the duty of the State;
(ii) that increasing court fees deters litigants and therefore represents a
barrier to access to justice; and (iii) that it is not appropriate to
administer court fees for the purposes of generating revenue for the State.
674\. The Law Commission further observed in para 8 at chapter 22 thus:
―A modern welfare State cannot with any W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 389 of 531
justification sell the dispensation of justice at a price. Perhaps a small
regulatory fee may be justified; but the present scales of court-fees are
wholly indefensible.‖
675\. The Law Commission has consistently asserted that raising court fees has
a dangerous deterrent effect on prospective litigants:
> ―Equality in the administration of justice thus forms the basis of our
> Constitution. Such equality is the basis of all modern systems of
> jurisprudence and administration of justice. Equality before the law
> necessarily involves the concept that all the parties to a proceeding in
> which justice is sought must have an equal opportunity of access to the
> Court and of presenting their cases to the Court. But access to the Courts
> is by law made dependent upon the payment of court fees, and the assistance
> of skilled lawyers is in most cases necessary for the proper presentation of
> a party's case in a court of law. In so far as a person is unable to obtain
> access to a court of law for having his wrongs redressed or for defending
> himself against a criminal charge, justice becomes unequal and laws which
> are meant for his protection have no meaning and to that extent fail in
> their purpose.‖ (14th Report, at pp. 587)
676\. The Law Commission has thus consistently argued that the rate of court
fees charged should depend only on the costs associated with administering
justice. On this point, the Commission has been unequivocal: in view of the
deleterious effect increased court fees have on access to justice, court fees
W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 390 of 531 should not be used to generate revenue for
the state.
677\. In the past, in England, the principle governing the levy of court fee
was that the salaries and pensions of judges were paid by the State out of
public funds. It was being accepted that it is the obligation of the State to
provide the machinery for the dispensation of justice in all its courts -
civil, criminal and revenue
\- and that only the other expenses of administration of justice shall be
borne by the litigants. (14th Report of Law Commission, p. 505) In this
regard, the Committee on Court Fees in England presided over by Mr. Justice
Macnaughten observed as follows:
> ―The Supreme Court is not merely engaged in the work of dispensing justice
> to the private suitors who resort there; it administers public justice not
> only in criminal cases but also in civil matters, such as proceedings on the
> crown side of the King's Bench. For the cost of administration of justice,
> where the public itself is directly concerned, the State ought, it is
> suggested to provide the necessary funds, since there can be no reason why
> the private suitors should do so. Though it would no doubt be difficult to
> calculate exactly how much of the expenditure of the Supreme Court is
> attributable to the administration of public, as distinguished from private
> justice, the salaries and pensions paid to the judges may perhaps be taken
> to represent fairly that figure.‖ (quoted in the Second Interim Report of
> the Committee on Supreme Court Practice and Procedure, p. 43)
678\. A learned author Dr. R.M. Jackson points out the dependence of Royal
Justice in England in part at least, on the W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 391 of
531 profits earned out of the administration of justice:
> ―In the past the growth of royal justice was partly due to the profits that
> accrued from exercising jurisdiction. The early inherent justice were more
> concerned with safeguarding the king's fiscal rights than with the trial of
> ordinary actions. A law Court was expected to pay for itself and show a
> profit for the king. It is some time since justice has been a substantial
> source of income, but the old idea survives in the idea that the Courts
> ought not to be run at a loss.‖ (see ‗Machinery of Justice in England', 5th
> Ed. p. 324) This was the experience in the United Kingdom.
679\. Justice Krishna Iyer in his speech ―The Judicial System- has it a
functional future in a constitutional order?‖ (1979) 3 SCC (Jour) 1, states:
> ―A system of court fees is contrary even to the Magna Carta signed centuries
> ago on the meadows of Runnemede and it sometimes happens that court directs
> suitors to claim justice by selling his small house or forgoing his
> treatment for cancer by diverting his only means of survival for payment of
> court fees. If this be the rule of law upheld by the temples of justice,
> impeachment of Court Law by Social Justice is inevitable. But the lethargic
> legislatures don't act. To make or amend the law is within their power
> but..... the cost of litigation, in a societal impecuniousness, shuttles
> justice say for the well to do.‖
680\. As back as in the 1980s, Krishna Iyer, J. in 1980 Supp SCC
W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 392 of 531 471, Central Coal Fields Ltd. v Jaiswal
Coal Co., had categorically also observed that effective access to justice is
one of the basic requirements of a system and high amount of court fee may
amount to sale of justice when he stated thus:
> ―2. ...it is more deplorable that the culture of the magna carta
> notwithstanding the Anglo-Indian forensic system -- and currently free
> India's court process -- should insist on payment of court fee on such a
> profiteering scale without correlative expenditure on the administration of
> civil justice that the levies often smack of sale of justice in the Indian
> Republic where equality before the law is a guaranteed constitutional
> fundamental and the legal system has been directed by Article 39-A ―to
> ensure that opportunities for securing justice are not denied to any citizen
> by reason of economic . . . disabilities‖. The right of effective access to
> justice has emerged in the Third World countries as the first among the new
> social rights what with public interest litigation, community based actions
> and pro bono publico proceedings. ―Effective access to justice can thus be
> seen as the most basic requirement -- the most basic ‗human right' -- of a
> system which purports to guarantee legal rights.‖ xxx xxx xxx
> 3\. ...The State, and failing it someday, the court, may have to consider,
> from the point of view of policy and constitutionality, whether such an
> inflated price for access to court justice is just or legal...‖
681\. A substantially large percentage of our population still suffers from
extreme poverty and deprivation in areas of food, W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 393
of 531 nutrition and public health, education, social security as well as
legal services. At the same time there is a large percentage of people who may
not be poverty stricken, but are struggling to make ends meet; who certainly
do not have that extra rupee in their kitty to pay court fees if they had to
seek legal redressal.
682\. Interestingly, the high cost of seeking justice by imposition of a
special court fee regime has several negative impacts. If the cost of seeking
compensation by an affected party, upon violation of a contract, is kept
prohibitive, no contract may be entered into at all. To elucidate, several
people prefer to keep their immovable property vacant rather than renting or
licensing it out. This is because they apprehend that it would be extremely
costly for them to get the premises vacated when they need it as litigation
costs which include court fees could be very high in case they had to access
the justice system to get the premises vacated. High cost of seeking justice,
therefore, may effectively curtail trade and economic activity.
683\. If the cost of accessing the courts is high, it is possible that many
may try to resolve their disputes by violent means. The high court fees could
also encourage larger violation of contracts as the violators would know that
the other party would find it too costly to approach the court for seeking a
performance of the contract or compensation for its breach. A case in hand
would be the non- payment of expenses incurred through credit cards to the
credit card company.
W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 394 of 531
684\. It is urged that administration of justice to the citizens of India
cannot have any relation to the cost of doing so. There is merit in this
submission. The burden of rising prices and costs cannot be shifted to the
litigant. Public funds planned and non- planned, should be provided for the
functioning of the judiciary. This is the constitutional mandate.
685\. The government incurs expenditure for discharge of its sovereign
functions from the revenues collected by it from the public. The Delhi
Government receives grants from the Central Government. In the present case it
does not even venture to give a tenable explanation or the justification for
charging for access to justice.
686\. It is a fundamental principle that persons with higher income pay more
taxes so that essential services such as health, primary education, defence
etc. may be provided to the low income citizens. In case cost recovery is
considered the very rationale for court fees, then as costs increase, the
State may be tempted to peg the court fee levels higher and higher and as a
result, legal services could go well beyond the reach of a large section of
the population. However, if the rationale for court fees is to act as an entry
barrier for non-serious litigation, then the court fee level would require to
be fixed at a very different level. The two rationales and objectives for the
fee lead to a completely different basis for setting the court fee.
W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 395 of 531
687\. The financial independence of the judiciary is integral to its
functioning as an independent organ of the State. It has been concluded that
―available data reveals that it invariably earns more by way of fees and
judicial stamps than what is spent on its upkeep‖.
688\. The Law Commission in its 189th Report has recommended that ―we must
have an adequate number of trial and appellate Courts, civil and criminal,
established by the Central Government and State Governments‖ and ―adequate
budgetary provision must be made before the enactment of any legislation, by
making a judicial impact assessment. The expenditure must be borne from the
general taxes collected by the Central and the State Governments.‖
689\. In the judgment of the Supreme Court reported at 1989 Supp (1) SCC 696,
P.M. Ashwathanarayana Setty v. State of Karnataka, while dealing with the
issue of constitutionality of fixation of ad valorem court fees without any
upper limit in the Rajasthan and Karnataka Court Fees Act, the Court quoted
A.P. Herbert's ‗More Uncommon Law' referring to the words of the Judge in the
fictional case of Hogby v. Hogby thus:-
> ―That if the Crown must charge for justice, at least the fee should be like
> the fee for postage: that is to say, it should be the same, however long the
> journey may be. For it is no fault of one litigant that his plea to the
> King's Judges raises questions more difficult to determine than another's
> and will require a longer W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 396 of 531 hearing in
> Court. He is asking for justice, not renting house property.‖ The Judge in
> the fictional case asked the Attorney General:
> ―Everybody pays for the police, but some people use them more than others.
> Nobody complains. You don't have to pay a special fee every time you have a
> burglary, or ask a policeman the way.‖
690\. The view of the Supreme Court regarding court fee as a limitation on
access to justice expressed in P.M. Ashwathanarayana Setty v. State of
Karnataka (supra), requires recalling. The Court said:
> ―22. The court fee as a limitation on access to justice is inextricably
> intertwined with a ―highly emotional and even evocative subject stimulating
> visions of a social order in which justice will be brought within the reach
> of all citizens of all ranks in society, both those blessed with affluence
> and those depressed with their poverty‖. It is, it is said, like a clarion
> call to make the administration of civil justice available to all on the
> basis of equality, equity and fairness with its corollary that no one should
> suffer injustice by reason of his not affording or is deterred from, access
> to justice. The need for access to justice, recognizes the primordial need
> to maintain order in society as disincentive of inclination towards extra-
judicial and violent means of setting disputes...‖ The court further observed
in para 23:
―The stipulation of court fee is, undoubtedly a deterrent W.P.(C)No.4770/2012
page 397 of 531 to free ―access to justice.‖
691\. It is noteworthy that though the Supreme Court upheld the
constitutionality of the legislation in P.M. Ashwathanarayanaa Setty v. State
of Karnataka (supra) but it is necessary to note that the rejection of the
challenge was in the facts of the case. In para 98, the Supreme Court
suggested rationalization of the levy of the court fee by the States and more
particularly lower fees for the litigants at lower level on the principle that
those who have less in life should have more in law. In para 29, the Supreme
Court noted the well settled international position that ―all civilized
governments recognize the need for access to justice being free‖. The
observations of the Court in paras 95 to 98 shed valuable light on our
considerations and are therefore set down hereafter:
> ―95. Now at the end of the day, what remains is the suggestion necessary in
> regard to the rationalisation of the court fees under the ―Rajasthan Act‖
> and the ―Karnataka Act‖. The arguments in the case highlight an important
> aspect. The levy of court fee at rates reaching 10 per cent ad valorem
> operates harshly and almost tends to price justice out of the reach of many
> distressed litigants. The Directive Principles of State Policy, though not
> strictly enforceable in courts of law, are yet fundamental in the governance
> in the country. They constitute fons juris in a Welfare State. The
> prescription of such high rates of court fees even in small claims as also
> without an upper limit in larger claims is perilously close to
> arbitrariness, an unconstitutionality. The ideal is, of course, a state
> W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 398 of 531 of affairs where the State is enabled to
> do away with the pricing of justice in its courts of justice. In this reach
> for the ideal it serves to recall the words of Robert Kennedy: ―Some men see
> things as they are and say why, I dream things that never were and say why
> not?‖
> 96\. The power to raise funds through the fiscal tool of a fee is not to be
> confused with a compulsion so to do. While ―fee‖ meant to defray expenses of
> services cannot be applied towards objects of general public utility as part
> of general revenues, the converse is not valid. General public revenues can,
> with justification, be utilised to meet, wholly or in substantial part, the
> expenses on the administration of civil justice. Many States including
> Karnataka and Rajasthan had, earlier, statutory upper limits fixed for the
> court fee. But later legislation has sought to do away with the prescription
> of an upper limit. The insistence on raising court fees at high rates
> recalls of what Adam Smith [―Wealth of Nations‖] said:
> ――There is no art which one government sooner learns of another than that of
> drawing money from the pockets of the people.‖
> 97\. Fees are levied no doubt to defray the cost of services but as observed
> by Findlay Shirras [―Science of Public Finance‖ Vol. II, pp. 674-75] :
> ―Fees are levied in order to defray usually a part, in rare cases the whole
> of the cost of services done in public interest and conferring some degree
> of advantage on the fee payer.‖ (Emphasis supplied)
> 692\. A five Judge Bench of the Supreme Court had occasion to
> W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 399 of 531 consider the validity of Rule 12 of
> Order XXXV of the Supreme Court Rules, 1950 so far as it related to
> imposition of terms as to costs and as to giving a security as deemed fit by
> the court in a petition under Article 32 of the Constitution of India. This
> challenge was decided by a five Judge Bench in the judgment reported at 1963
> SCR Supp (1) 885, Prem Chand Garg & Anr. v.
Excise Commissioner, U.P. & Ors. The petitioners Prem Chand and another who
were partners of an industrial chemical corporation had filed a petition under
Article 32 of the Constitution of India impeaching the validity of an order
passed by the Excise Commissioner refusing permission to a distillery to
supply power alcohol to the petitioners. While admitting the petition on the
12th of December 1961, a direction was made that the petitioner should deposit
a security of Rs.2,500/- in cash within six weeks. As the petitioners found it
difficult to comply with this order, they moved an application for extension
of time to the petitioners to deposit the amount which was rejected. As the
petitioners failed to collect the requisite amount, they filed a writ petition
under Article 32 of the Constitution contending that the rule so far as it
relates to giving of security was ultra vires as it contravenes the
fundamental rights guaranteed to the petitioners to move the Supreme Court
under Article 32.
693\. The Court was called upon to consider the question as to whether the
order for security could be said to retard or obstruct the assertion or
vindication of a fundamental right under Article 32.
W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 400 of 531 Speaking for the majority, Gajendragadkar,
J., (as his Lordship then was) had considered the question as to whether the
order which the court could make in order to do complete justice between the
parties, ―must not only be consistent with the fundamental rights guaranteed
by the Constitution, but it cannot even be inconsistent with the substantive
provisions of the relevant statutory laws‖. So far as the rule making power of
the Supreme Court under Article 145 is concerned, the contours thereof in the
context of a direction to furnish security were considered in para 15 of the
pronouncement in the following terms:-
> ―15. Let us now consider whether a rule can be made under Article 145(1)
> providing for the making of an order for furnishing security in cases of
> petitions under Article 32 where the court is satisfied that in case the
> petition fails, the petitioner may not be able to pay the costs of the
> respondent. The impugned rule is presumably based upon the provisions of
> Article 145(l)(f). It may be assumed that the expression ―costs of and
> incidental to any proceedings in the court‖ used in clause (f) may cover an
> order of security; but if an order for security amounts to a contravention
> of Article 32, there would be no power to make such a rule under Article
> 145(l)(f). After all, rules framed under Article 145 are in exercise of the
> delegated power of legislation, and the said power cannot be exercised so as
> to affect the fundamental rights. If the wide words used in Article 142
> cannot justify an order of security in an Article 32 petition, it follows
> that a rule made under Article 145 cannot authorise the making of such an
> order. We ought to add that cases of frivolous petitions filed under Article
> 32 can be eliminated at the preliminary hearing of such petitions. Since
> 1959, petitions filed W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 401 of 531 under Article 32
> are set down for a preliminary hearing and it is only after the court is
> satisfied that a prima facie case has been made out by the petitioner that a
> rule nisi is ordered to be issued against the respondent. In order to decide
> this question, sometime notice is issued to the respondent even at the
> preliminary hearing and it is after hearing the respondent that a rule is
> issued on the petition. It may be that in some cases, the respondent may not
> be able to recover its costs from the petitioner even if the petition is
> dismissed on the merits. But that, in our opinion, cannot justify the making
> of an order for security, because even impecunious citizens, or citizens
> living abroad, must be entitled to move this Court if they feel that their
> fundamental rights have been contravened. Similarly, women who own no
> property would be entitled to move this Court in case their fundamental
> rights are contravened, and following the analogy of Order 25 Rule 1(3), no
> order for security can be made against them because that would make their
> right illusory. That obviously is the content of the fundamental right
> guaranteed under Article 32, and since the impugned rule, insofar as it
> relates to security for costs, impairs the content of that right, it must be
> struck down as being unconstitutional. Rules framed under Article 145 which
> govern the practice and procedure in respect of the petitions under Article
> 32 with the object of aiding and facilitating the orderly course of their
> presentation, and further progress until their decision, cannot be said to
> contravene Article 32. All proceedings in Court must be orderly and must
> follow the well recognised pattern usually adopted for a fair and
> satisfactory hearing; petitions under Article 32 are no exception in that
> behalf. Besides, orders can be passed on the merits of the petitions either
> at an interlocutory stage or after their final decision, and no objection
> can be taken against such orders on the W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 402 of 531
> ground that they contravene Article 32. In a proper case, proceedings
> threatened against the petitioners may be stayed unconditionally or on
> conditions or may not be stayed, or a Receiver may be appointed in respect
> of the property in dispute, or at the end of the final hearing if the
> petition fails, the petitioner may be ordered to pay the costs of the
> respondent. All these are matters whose validity cannot be challenged on the
> ground that they contravene Article 32. But if a rule or an order imposes a
> financial liability on the petitioner at the thresh hold of his petition and
> that too for the benefit of the respondent, and non- compliance with the
> said rule or order brings to an end the career of the said petition, that
> must be held to constitute an infringement of the fundamental right
> guaranteed to the citizens to move this Court under Article 32. That is why
> we think Rule 12 in respect of the imposing of security is invalid.
694\. The Supreme Court observed that the rights guaranteed under Part III are
not absolute and have to be adjusted in relation to the interests of general
public and that the difficult task of determining the propriety or validity of
adjustments made either legislatively or by executive action between the
fundamental rights and the demands of the socio-economic welfare has been
ultimately left in the charge of the Supreme Court and the High Court by the
Constitution. In this background, the Constitution makers had thought it
advisable to treat the citizen's right to move the court for enforcement of a
fundamental right as being a fundamental right by itself which right had been
described as ―the cornerstone of the democratic edifice raised by the
Constitution‖.
W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 403 of 531
695\. The Supreme Court has noted that the right to move the Court conferred
on the citizens of India by Article 32 is itself a guaranteed right and it
holds the same place of pride in the Constitution as other provisions in
respect of citizen's fundamental rights; that the right shall not be
suspended, except as otherwise provided for by the Constitution. An order that
the petitioner should furnish security for the costs of the respondent, made
against the petitioner, would be an insurmountable barrier for the petitioner
in his accessing the Supreme Court under Article 32 of the Constitution. Thus
the very rule so prescribing was held to be unsustainable.
696\. In (1979) 2 SCC 236, State of Haryana v. Smt. Darshana Devi, a Special
Leave Petition was filed by the State of Haryana assailing the judgment of the
High Court of Punjab & Haryana which had extended the pauper provisions under
Order XXXIII of the Code of Civil Procedure to motor accident claims under the
Motor Vehicles Act. The Supreme Court rejected the challenge with the
following observations:-
> ―2. The poor shall not be priced out of the Justice market by insistence on
> court-fee and refusal to apply the exemptive provisions of Order 33, Code of
> Civil Procedure. So we are distressed that the State of Haryana, mindless of
> the mandate of equal justice to the indigent under the Magna Carta of our
> Republic, expressed in Article 14 and stressed in Article 39A of the
> Constitution, has sought leave to appeal against the order of the High Court
> which has rightly extended the ―pauper‖ provisions to auto-accident claims.
> The W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 404 of 531 reasoning of the High Court in
> holding that Order 33 will apply to tribunals which have the trappings of
> the civil court finds our approval. We affirm the decision.
> xxx xxx xxx
> 5\. Two principles are involved. Access to court is an aspect of social
> justice and the State has no rational litigation policy if it forgets this
> fundamental...‖
697\. The Supreme Court further relied on Cappelleti's perception, (also
relied upon by the Australian Law Reform Commission), on access to justice
being a ‗basic human right' and further stated that:-
> ―We should expand the jurisprudence of access to justice as an integral part
> of Social Justice and examine the constitutionalism of court-fee levy as a
> facet of human rights highlighted in our Nation's Constitution. If the State
> itself should travesty this basic principle, in the teeth of Articles 14 and
> 39A, where an indigent widow is involved a second look at its policy is
> overdue. The Court must give the benefit of doubt against levy of a price to
> enter the temple of justice until one day the whole issue of the validity of
> profit-making through sale of civil justice, disguised as court-fee, is
> fully reviewed by this Court. ...‖
698\. In the Darshana Devi case, the Supreme Court has approved the liberal
application and interpretation by the High Court of a W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page
405 of 531 provision enacted to enable a poor (‗indigent') person to seek
redressal of his grievances in a civil court, extending its applicability to
petitioners under the Motor Vehicles Act. The pronouncements of the Supreme
Court underline the primacy which has to be accorded by the courts, tribunals,
the executive as well as the legislature to actions especially levy of court
fee which could interdict access to justice of any person.
699\. The impact of the enhancement of the court fees in the present case has
to be considered in the light of these illuminating and binding principles
laid down by the Supreme Court. The spirit of socio-economic justice is
enshrined in the Preamble in the recognition of the fundamental rights in Part
III as well as the Directive Principles of State Policy in our Constitution.
The Supreme Court has interpreted constitutional as well as statutory
principles to accord primacy to and to secure socio-economic justice. We find
ourselves bound by these principles while deciding the issues in the present
writ petitions.
700\. It is thus worth noting that raising court fees to such an extent as to
restrict access to justice is at odds with the trend towards a relaxation of
standing requirements designed to facilitate public interest litigation, and
enhancing the capacity of the downtrodden to access justice by legal aid
measures and mechanisms for expediting administration of justice.
701\. The Law Commission of India in the 189th Report of W.P.(C)No.4770/2012
page 406 of 531 February, 2004 has gravely concluded that though ―with the
passage of time the cost of administration of justice is increasing but to
meet this increased cost of administration of justice enhancing the court fees
is not the proper approach. On the contrary, it will be a roadblock to the
access to justice, which is recognized as a basic right world over‖.
702\. Given the above discussion, we agree with the recommendations of the Law
Commission that it is impermissible to meet the costs of administration of
justice entirely through court fees levied on users, and that ―full cost
recovery‖ is unsupportable. At the most a notional recovery (akin to Hogby's
‗postage stamp') would be legally permissible.
703\. Some elements of this discussion are inherent in the argument that cost
of provision of the criminal justice system has to be borne entirely by the
State.
704\. For evaluation of appropriate court fee, the ‗cost' of the case is of
utmost importance. We have discussed in the earlier part of this judgment that
the ‗cost' of a case to a judicial system may be the same, irrespective of the
value of the claim while discussing the effect of ad valorem levy of court fee
without a cap.
705\. Even if it could be held that it was permissible to effect recoveries
through court fee of amounts which are higher than the cost of maintaining the
justice system, one more aspect of this problem deserves scrutiny. It is a
standard business practice to W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 407 of 531 invest and
expand activities that can generate profits. Therefore, from the purely
economic point of view, it would be logical to invest all receipts from court
fees in the justice dispensation system, be it for creating more number of
judges or adding to the infrastructure. Unfortunately, this has not been
contemplated nor is it proposed by the respondents.
706\. The following observations of the Supreme Court in the judgment reported
at AIR 1978 SC 1765, Gujarat State Financial Corporation v. Natson
Manufacturing Co., are noteworthy in this regard:-
> ―When dealing with a question of court fee, the perspective should be
> informed by the spirit of the magna carta and of equal access to justice
> which suggests that a heavy price tag on relief in Court should be regarded
> as unpalatable.‖
707\. Similarly in (1992) 1 SCC 119 All India Judges‟ Association v. Union of
India, it was stated thus:-
> ―54. It is not our intention to raise a dispute on this aspect. We adverted
> to these authorities and the views of this Court to bring support for the
> view that what is collected as court fee at least be spent on the
> administration of justice instead of being utilised as a source of general
> revenue of the States. Undoubtedly the income from court fees is more than
> the expenditure on the administration of justice. This is conspicuously
> noticeable from the figures available in the publication in the Ministry of
> Law and Justice.‖ W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 408 of 531
708\. The Law Commission and judicial precedents have thus asserted that the
principle of access to justice animates the obligation of the state to provide
a system for the administration of justice.
709\. It is, therefore evident that the concerns voiced and recommendation
made by the legislature in the Statement of Objects and Reasons for the Court
Fees Act, 1870 and reiterated by the Supreme Court in the host of judicial
pronouncements noted hereinabove; articulated in the reports of the Law
Commission of India (including the 189th Report on the Revision of the Court
Fee Structure) as late as in 2004 remain the same. These matters have been
reiterated by the Supreme Court in the National Court Management Systems
(NCMS) and ‗Policy and Action Plan‖ dated 27th September, 2012.
710\. These documents are in the public domain and available to the
respondents. It cannot be disputed that the reports of the Law Commission are
opinions and recommendations of experts. Lord Macaulay who headed the first
Law Commission was instrumental in the enactment of some of the most important
legislations in this country. The judicial pronouncements bind the
respondents. The articulation of the applicable principles in the reports of
the Law Commission are relevant and were required to be actively considered
before effecting and amending the schedule of the Court Fees Act which results
in its steep escalation.
W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 409 of 531
711\. The above narration would show that these important issues specifically
on the issues relating to the court fees structure; the reinforcement by the
Supreme Court in the Policy Statement and Action Plan of the NCMS as well as
in the several judicial pronouncements noticed above which have gone
completely unnoticed and unheeded by the respondents.
712\. It is well established that administration of justice is a ‗service'
which the state is constitutionally mandated to ensure to its citizens. It is
a fundamental duty of the state. The levy of exorbitant court fees imposes
financial burden on litigants and operates as a barrier for them approaching
the judicial system for redressal of their grievances. This is an established
impediment to the exercise of the fundamental rights of access to justice. It
adversely impacts the constitutional obligation for providing and ensuring a
system for securing a just social order and promoting justice. Enhancement of
court fee, payment whereof is a pre- condition for approaching the courts,
without any evaluation of the realities noticed above, ignoring the principles
laid down by the Supreme Court; overlooking the studies and reports of legal,
social and economic experts is indubitably an anathema to social order and
justice. The inevitable conclusion is that therefore, it is violative of the
directive principles enshrined in Articles 38 and 39A of the Constitution of
India.
W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 410 of 531 (IX) Fee exemption and waivers-forma
pauperis litigation
713\. The respondents have placed strong reliance on the exemption from
payment of court fee provision for indigent persons. Their submission is that
an indigent person can file a suit in forma pauperis under Rule 1 Order XXXIII
of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908, or in the case of a writ petition, can
file an application seeking exemption from paying the court fees.
714\. It is also worth recognising that many common law jurisdictions have
established procedures to exempt the indigent from court fees. These
procedures are animated by the Latin principle ‗in forma pauperis,' literally
meaning ―in the form of the pauper,‖ and they permit courts to designate
persons without the necessary funds to pursue a criminal defence or civil suit
and waive their court fees. This exemption by itself demonstrates a well-
established assumption emerging from the common law, and now enshrined in
statute, that court fees do unfairly limit the ability of the poor to access
justice.
715\. This provision is available only to proceedings to which the Code of
Civil Procedure applies and renders eligible only persons who qualify under
the stringent conditions of indigency. Thus, Order XXXIIII of our Code of
Civil Procedure, 1908, provides for ―suits by indigent persons.‖ Where a court
grants an applicant indigent status pursuant to Rule 1, court fees are waived,
and the suit is allowed to proceed on an in forma pauperis basis. Where the
W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 411 of 531 in forma pauperis plaintiff ultimately
succeeds completely in his or her claim, the court fee becomes payable out of
the judgment (Rule
10). Where the suit is only partly successful, the indigent person is only
liable for the court fee in proportion to his or her success in the suit (Rule
10). However, where the suit is unsuccessful, the indigent plaintiff becomes
liable for the entire court fee (Rule 11).
716\. Similar provisions can be found in the civil procedure statutes of the
United States at both the federal and state levels. For instance, Title 28
(Judiciary and Judicial Procedure) of the United States Code (federal
statutory law) provides:
> ―...Any court of the United States may authorize the commencement,
> prosecution or defense of any suit, action or proceeding, civil or criminal,
> or appeal therein, without prepayment of fees or security therefor, by a
> person who submits an affidavit that includes a statement of all assets such
> prisoner possesses that the person is unable to pay such fees or give
> security therefor...‖ (USC § 1915(a)(1))
717\. Canada's Supreme Court Act also vests the judges of the Supreme Court
with the discretion to make rules and orders ―for allowing appeals in forma
pauperis by leave...and for allowing a respondent leave to defend in forma
pauperis.‖ [Supreme Court Act, R.S.C., 1985, c S-26, s. 97(1)(b)]
718\. A Divisional Court in the Canadian province of Ontario has extended the
in forma pauperis principle to a common law W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 412 of
531 constitutional right to access to the courts. This Court observed that
court fees that prevent the poor from accessing courts for small claims
violate this right, and held that any statute that authorizes court fees must
include a provision waiving the payment of fees by those who cannot afford
them. [Ref: Polewsky v. Home Hardware Stores, (2003) 66 O.R. (3d) 600]
719\. South African law, too, provides for in forma pauperis proceedings.
Hundreds of civil suits proceed on this basis in the High Court every year
(See ―Making Legal Aid a Reality,‖ Public Interest Law Institute, 2009) under
Rule 40 of the Uniform Rules of Court:
> ―(1) (a) A person who desires to bring or defend proceedings in forma
> pauperis, may apply to the registrar who, if it appears to him that he is a
> person such as is contemplated by paragraph (a) of subrule (2), shall refer
> him to an attorney and at the same time inform the local society of
> advocates accordingly.
> (b) Such attorney shall thereupon inquire into such person's means and the
> merits of his cause and upon being satisfied that the matter is one in which
> he may properly act in forma pauperis, he shall request the said society to
> nominate an advocate who is willing and able to act, and upon being so
> nominated such advocate shall act therein.
(c) Should such attorney or advocate thereafter become unable so to act, the
registrar or the said society, as the case may be, may, upon request, nominate
another practitioner to act in his stead.‖ (2) If when proceedings are
instituted there be lodged W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 413 of 531 with the
registrar on behalf of such person-
(a) an affidavit setting forth fully his financial position and stating that,
excepting household goods, wearing apparel and tools of trade, he is not
possessed of property to the amount of R10 000 and will not be able within a
reasonable time to provide such sum from his earnings;
xxx xxx xxx (5) The said advocate and attorney shall thereafter act
gratuitously for the said person in their respective capacities in the said
proceedings, and shall not be at liberty to withdraw, settle or compromise
such proceedings, or to discontinue their assistance, without the leave of a
judge, who may in the latter event give directions as to the appointment of
substitutes.
xxx xxx xxx (7) If upon the conclusion of the proceedings a litigant in forma
pauperis is awarded costs, his attorney may include in his bill of costs such
fees and disbursements to which he would ordinarily have been entitled, and
upon receipt thereof, in whole or in part, he shall pay out in the following
order of preference: first, to the registrar, such amount in revenue stamps as
would have been due in respect of his fees of office; second, to the sheriff,
his charges for the service and execution of process; third, to himself and
the advocate, their fees as allowed on taxation, pro rata if necessary.‖
720\. As these in forma pauperis provisions demonstrate, common law
jurisdictions are consistent in the view that court fees prima
W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 414 of 531 facie threaten the accessibility of
courts, and that mechanisms for waiving such fees are necessary in order to
protect the rights of the poor to access justice.
721\. It is worth noting, however, that governments would point to in forma
pauperis mechanisms to defend increasing court fees. If the poor may still
access courts via the waiver of court fees, the argument goes, how can it be
said that increasing court fees impedes access to justice? This is the
argument laid before us in the present case. Two points serve as a complete
answer to this argument.
722\. First, India is still grappling with discrimination and denial of
constitutional rights relating to issues such as manual scavenging, caste
discrimination, child marriage, bonded labour, homelessness, landlessness,
those deprived of bare nutrition, honour killing and millions living in abject
poverty. Surely we cannot say that these issues are not in existence in Delhi.
It cannot be disputed that there is consensus on an appropriate definition of
‗below poverty line' till date.
723\. Also, no matter what monetary limit is used to determine whether a
prospective litigant should be considered ―indigent‖ in order to qualify for
an exception to court fees, there will still be others who fall just above the
line and yet for them, litigation will be prohibitively expensive.
724\. The Supreme Court of British Columbia (Canada) traced the
W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 415 of 531 history of court fee as a levy, its
rationale and limitations in the judgment reported at 2012 BCSC 748 Vilardell
v. Dunham (decided on 22nd May, 2012). The court had concluded that asking for
court fees from a party who did not fall within the definition of ‗indigent',
but required his available resources for more pressing everyday expenses, was
denial of access of justice and the requirement of court fee for the hearing
was declared unconstitutional. An appeal was filed before the Court of Appeal
for British Columbia. It is noteworthy that in the meantime, there was a
change in the Rules by which the word ‗indigent' was replaced by expression
‗otherwise impoverished'. The Court of Appeal based its decision on the
changed rule position and read it up to more readily to allow exemption. A
view was taken that Court of Appeal in the decision dated 15 th February, 2013
reported at 2013 BCCA 65 that the statute ought to be construed in a manner
that helps uphold its constitutionality. The Court of Appeal proceeded to do
so and gave the statutory expression a wider meaning so as to also enable
exemption from court fee for a typical middle class citizen. Having done so,
the appeal was accepted and the rules since changed were upheld.
725\. It was observed that:
> ―A person who cannot afford a fee of $100 or $200 may properly be described
> as indigent, that is, as being ―destitute,‖ needy,‖ ―in want,‖ ―poor‖ or
> ―necessitous‖ as the dictionaries define the term. It is an awkward word to
> use to describe a middle class W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 416 of 531 family's
> inability to pay a month's net salary for the two-week ―rent‖ of a
> courtroom. In its ordinary sense the word implies a level of fees that all
> but the truly poor should be able to pay. If that is not so, there may be
> something at odds between the indigency test and the level of the fees.‖
> (Vilardell v. Dunham)
726\. The matter of exemption from payment of court fees to indigent persons
deserves to be examined from another angle as well. The above discussion would
show that this is left to the discretion of the individual judges, whereas we
are concerned with the exercise of the right to access justice of the
citizens. The rule conferring discretionary power on the court to direct a
petitioner to furnish security as a pre-condition for orders on his petition
was also considered by the Supreme Court in 1963 SCR Supp (1) 885 Prem Chand
Garg and another v. Excise Commissioner, UP and others and was disapproved by
the Supreme Court in the following terms:
> ―16. There is another aspect of the matter to which reference must
> incidentally be made. The Rule is obviously intended to secure the costs of
> the respondent in a proper case. Let us see how this Rule will work if it is
> interpreted and acted upon in the manner suggested by the learned Solicitor-
> General. In practice, at present, an order of security is normally made
> unless a request is made by the petitioner either for the reduction of the
> amount or for dispensing with the security altogether. If the petitioner is
> not impecunious, an order for security will not serve any essential purpose,
> because if the costs are awarded against him after the final hearing, the
> respondent W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 417 of 531 may be able to secure his
> costs. If, however, the petitioner is impecunious, the court may not, after
> granting a rule on the petition, in its discretion, pass an order of
> security and in that sense, the very object of securing the respondent's
> costs would not be served. It is true that if the discretion is exercised by
> the court in favour of impecunious petitioners and orders for security are
> not passed in their cases, no hardship will be caused to them. But it seems
> to us that what would be left to the discretions of the court on this
> construction of the rule, is really a matter of the right of impecunious
> petitioners under Article 32. That is why we think that the impugned Rule
> insofar as it relates to the giving of security cannot be sustained.‖
727\. By denying relief from court fees to all but the poorest of the poor, in
forma pauperis exemptions preclude a wide range of potential litigants who
cannot demonstrate indigency, such as the lower middle class, from accessing
the courts. Thus, it cannot be said that even waiver provisions guarantee
access to justice in the face of increased court fees. This is one reason why
the Law Commission in its 128th Report argues that court fees should be
abolished altogether.
728\. Second, the nature of fee waivers requires courts to differentiate
between persons on the basis of class and income. Those who can afford court
fees do not have to face the humiliating procedural hurdles imposed on those
who claim to be unable to afford fees. As one Bar Association has argued in
Vilardell v. Dunham (supra) at page 115:
W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 418 of 531 ―[Fees] oblige some people who have a
right to come to court to disclose their financial affairs and seek to be
declared impoverished as a precondition to coming to court. A person of modest
means who cannot afford the fees must beg the court to acknowledge his status
as poor, an awkward and embarrassing exercise for a person whose unresolved
legal difficulties may already be causing stress.‖
729\. Liberal application of fee exemption and waivers is often discouraged on
the ground that the ―court registry staff could have real difficulties
investigating and evaluating broader discretionary categories for exemption
and waiver‖.
730\. The access to judicial system cannot be made contingent on being able to
pay a higher court fee or providing ―proof of being a pauper‖.
731\. The above discussion would show the growing realization that strict
rules of procedure impede access to justice, and more unequivocal access to
courts. Given the large percentage of the population which survives below
poverty line or forms the middle class struggling to make ends meet
enhancement of court fee which provides the doorstep barrier to accessing the
court, is at complete odds with the constitutional mandate of enhancing the
capacity of the disadvantage including the economically poor to access
justice. Many litigants find themselves in a constant spiral of having to pay,
without really having the ability to pay, and such class of litigants includes
not just the people below poverty line, but also W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 419
of 531 the people who are just above it.
732\. Access to justice is a right. It is not a privilege or a conditional
ground. The critical issue while considering the appropriate level of court
fee must be to preserve access to justice. This can be ensured either by
keeping the court fee low or provide for exemption at a level where those who
cannot pay, are exempt. Just as all grants and privileges that are given on
the basis of poverty are implementationally complicated, it would be logical
therefore, to keep the fee at an affordable level rather than attempting to
compute a level at which those who cannot pay are exempt.
733\. As the issue of court fee ought not to be relatable to costs, the
balance drawn between receipts from the court fee and expenditure on
administration of justice becomes irrelevant. The relevant question which is
required to be asked is what is an appropriate level of court fee which lower
income people, those who are not ―paupers‖ can afford to pay? Is the fee
pegged at a level where the families just above the stringent poverty line in
India, can afford to pay? Another relevant question which the policy makers
and the legislature would consider is what is the level that creates an
effective barrier for filing a suit? These relevant and material questions can
be answered only by an examination of the levels of cost of living of the
people and their ability to pay; not to the cost that the State may wish to
recover.
W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 420 of 531
734\. The above discussion would show that access to justice is a
constitutional right. Thus the law to charge court fee not only undermines but
interferes with enjoyment of such rights. The very factum that provisions for
exemptions and waiver from court fees have to be made establishes the
existence of the barrier. It follows therefrom that such barrier would be
removed if you are able to prove poverty. However, if you are economically so-
placed that you are above the level of poverty but do not have means to pay
the court fee, then your lack of poverty becomes barrier to access to justice.
The barrier is removed only if you can prove your indigency or pauperism.
735\. We would say that when existence of the barrier is established, its
extent becomes a non-issue. Removal of the barrier to access to justice is of
prime importance; not negotiation of the extent to which court fee is a
barrier nor the conditions for removal of the barrier.
736\. So far as the administration of justice and the court fee is concerned,
therefore, the cost recovery paradigm must apply only vis-a-vis public funds
and not vis-a-vis the litigant.
737\. It would appear that the discriminatory nature of court fees is only
exacerbated by waiver provisions that subject the poor to humiliating
procedures in order to realize the rights they have in common with all
citizens. The rich are not exposed to such procedures. Thus to access the
courts, a person without means W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 421 of 531 goes
through the indignity of not only disclosing the level of his impoverishment
but often the degradation of an incisive cross- examination at the hands of a
defendant who contests the pauperism! The poor are thereby compelled to
publicly establish such level of poverty as would bring them within the
definition of forma pauperis - a violation of their valuable rights under
Articles 14 and 21 of the Constitution. In other words, court fees do not
treat all prospective litigants equally despite the constitutional guarantee
to equal treatment before the law, and despite the reality that access to
justice is a right that inheres in all individuals irrespective of their race,
class, sex, financial standing or other immutable characteristics.
(X) Expenditure on the judiciary
738\. In the present proceedings, one of the reasons put forth by the
respondents to support the enhancement of court fees is that there is a
deficit between the court fee which is recovered and the expenditure on the
judiciary.
739\. We find that the Supreme Court has noted that the income from court fees
is more than the expenditure made in the administration of justice as per
figures made available in the publication of the Ministry of Law and Justice.
The Supreme Court has thus also noted the view that the amount recovered as
court fee deserves to be spent on administration of justice and not used as a
source of general revenue.
W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 422 of 531
740\. In the judgment reported at (1992) 1 SCC 119, All India Judges
Association v. Union of India, the court quoted and analysed the concept of
court fees thus:
> ―54. ...We adverted to these authorities and the views of this Court to
> bring support for the view that what is collected as court fee at least be
> spent on the administration of justice instead of being utilized as a source
> of general revenue of the States. Undoubtedly the income from court fees is
> more than the expenditure on the administration of justice. This is
> conspicuously noticeable from the figures available in the publication in
> the Ministry of Law and Justice.‖ (emphasis by us)
741\. So far as expenditure incurred by the State on the provision of a system
for administration of justice is concerned, in the 127th Report of the Law
Commission on ―Resource Allocation for Infrastructural Services in Judicial
Administration‖ (1988), it is stated in para 5.8 that ―it is imperative to
point out that the State today spends precious little or, to say the least,
practically nothing on the administration of justice‖. The Commission has
pointed out that during 1981-82, barring Manipur and Tripura most of the
States spent only between 0.15% (A.P.) to 3.53% (M.P.) of the total tax
receipts of the State, on the administration of justice. These figures show
that administration of justice has received negligible funds for upkeep as
well as its growth.
742\. The 189th Report of the Law Commission further states that the First
National Judicial Pay Commission which was chaired by W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page
423 of 531 Justice K.J. Setty in its report of 11th November, 1999, has stated
that the expenditure on judiciary in India in terms of the Gross National
Product (GNP) is relatively low. It is not more than 0.2% only. Our attention
has been drawn also to the recommendation of the Setty Commission that as the
administration of justice is the joint responsibility of the Centre and the
State Governments, the Central Government must, in every state, share half on
the annual expenditure on subordinate courts.
743\. Despite repeated queries to the respondents before us to give some
details of the expenditure which is incurred on the administration of justice
and the receipts from court fee in the National Capital Territory of Delhi, no
details at all have been furnished.
744\. With the counter affidavit dated 6th September, 2012, respondent no.1
has placed on record the documents titled as ―Major Head : 2014 :
Administration of Justice (Demand no.60, Legal Department, Sector A - General
Services)‖. So far as budget estimates for the year 2012 - 2013 of the Govt.
of NCT of Delhi are concerned, it appears that against the plan outlay of
Rs.12,40,63,000 which had been sought, however the amount voted was
Rs.1,23,52,77,000. The non-plan expenditure sought under minor heads charged
was Rs.52,22,90,000 while the amount of Rs.4,41,46,00,000 was voted. As such,
a total of Rs.5,64,98,77,000 was allocated as planned and non-planned
expenditure for the judiciary. However the different heads covered
W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 424 of 531 in this demand included the High Court;
Special Courts; Civil and Sessions Courts; Small Causes Courts; Criminal
Courts; Administrator General and Official Trustees; Legal Advisors and
Counsels; Other State Administrative Tribunal and Other Expenditure.
745\. The respondents have placed a comparison of the plan outlays of some
States on record. As noticed above, this comparative chart was the sole
material which was considered by the Government Sub-Committee when it made its
recommendations which are the basis of the impugned amendment. This
comparative statement does not indicate the population, the demographic
profile, the nature of the litigation, the number of cases or any of the other
indicators essential to analyse the comparison. Simply looking at the
percentage expenditure of the state budget on the judiciary is completely
insufficient, and in our view, a useless exercise.
746\. So far as consideration of the court fee enhancement in Delhi is
concerned, a tabulation has been enclosed as Annexure - B to the counter
affidavit dated 6th September, 2012 captioned as ―Expenditure on
Administration of Justice‖ in NCT of Delhi which reads as follows:-
    W.P.(C)No.4770/2012                                      page 425 of 531
                       Expenditure on Administration of
                      Justice
    Year     Sale  of In NCT of Delhi (in Rupees Crores)              Percentage
             Court    Planned     Unplanned Total                     of
             Fees     Expenditure Expenditure Expenditure             expenditure
                                               of GNCTD               recovered
                                                                      through
                                                                      court fees
    2001-                 15.09       62.72         77.81
    02
    2003-    15.95        22.39       80.23         102.62            15.50%
    04
    2010-    61.53        106.3       322.72        429.02            14.34%
    11
    2011-    59.62        84.32       491.6         575.92            10.35%
    12
    2012-    60        100.5          490.14        590.64            10.16%
    13       (assumed)
             137.1                                  1698.2            11.60%
747\. The incomplete information furnished by the respondents is a telling
story by itself. The respondents do not disclose in the second column, the
sale of court fees for the year 2001-02. All figures relating to the year
2002-03 are missing. For the year 2003- 04, the unplanned expenditure of Rs.
80.23 crores far exceeds the planned expenditure of Rs.22.39 crores. The
respondents have withheld all statistics for the period from 2004 to 2010. Mr.
Chandhiok, learned Senior Counsel for the petitioner has urged at length that
it has to be presumed that this concealment is because for these periods the
court fee recovered was in excess of the W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 426 of 531
expenditure.
748\. Mr. Kalia, learned counsel has sought to place reliance on a chart
extracted in the ‗Synopsis and List of Dates' filed with the Special Leave
Petition before the Supreme Court of India.
749\. Mr. Chandhiok, learned Senior Counsel for the petitioner submits that
there is variance of the figures placed before this court and that before the
Supreme Court. Be that as it may, even if this tabulation was to be accepted,
the information disclosed is insufficient to enable any reasonable person to
take the view that the amendment to the court fee regime was appropriate or
based on relevant material.
750\. An article ―Speeding Up Trials‖ published in the Hindu dated 22nd July,
2003 by Surendra Nath, Advisor (Union Planning Commission) enables us to
understand the manner in which financial responsibility for administration of
justice has been apportioned between the Central Government and the State
Governments. This article contains the following details of the budgeting of
expenditure on the judiciary:-
> ―Under the Seventh Schedule of the Constitution, administration of justice
> has been a concurrent responsibility of the Centre and the State Governments
> since 1977. The Centre's Plan investment in Justice started in the Eighth
> Five Year Plan (1992-97) in compliance with a Supreme Court direction of
> 1993-94. During the Eighth Plan, the Centre spent about Rs. 110 crores on
> improving W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 427 of 531 judicial infrastructure, such
> as constructing court rooms. An equal amount was spent by the States. In the
> Ninth Plan, Rs. 385 crores were spent by the Centre, and the States made a
> matching contribution. This was 0.071 per cent of the Centre's Ninth Plan
> expenditure of Rs. 5,41,207 crores. During the Tenth Plan (2002-07), the
> allocation for Justice is Rs. 700 crores, which is 0.078 per cent of the
> total Plan outlay of Rs. 8,93,183 crores...
> As adequate Plan investment in Justice was not forthcoming, in April 2000
> the Department approached the Eleventh Finance Commission for non-Plan
> assistance to set up additional courts for expediting the trial of long-
> pending sessions cases. A meeting was convened, at the instance of the
> Department of Justice on April 4, 2000, with the full Finance Commission and
> the Law Secretaries of major States. It was proposed that the State
> Governments respond to the suggestion of creating temporary additional posts
> of judges to clear the backlog. The suggestion was approved and a grant of
> Rs. 502.9 crores was recommended by the Finance Commission under Article 275
> of the Constitution to set up 1,734 additional courts, which came to be
> known as fast track courts. These courts are to continue till 2005.
> The grant covers the entire functioning of fast track courts.‖ (Also
> referred to in the 189th report of the Law Commission)
751\. The 189th Report of the Law Commission on the Revision of Court Fees
Structure (February, 2004) has noted empirical evidence that the judiciary
earns more than it spends. An analysis W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 428 of 531 of
the budgets and working of the Supreme Court and the Allahabad High Court in
1984 was published under the title ―Litigation Explosion in India‖ which was
prepared by Dr. Rajeev Dhavan and published by the Indian Law Institute. The
figures from 1957-77 show that the Supreme Court invariably spent less than
the sum it received under the head ―grant allocated‖ and ―other receipts‖.
As regards the judiciary in Uttar Pradesh, figures for the years 1961-62 to
1978-79 also showed that the income earned by the courts (from judicial stamps
and fees on writs, vakalatnama etc.) was always in excess of what was spent on
them thus leaving a substantial surplus in each year. No other study on these
issues is available.
So far as Delhi is concerned, no study at all appears to have been undertaken
by the respondents.
752\. The Law Commission (189th Report) has quoted the following comments of
Dr. Dhavan on page 112 of the book. He has stated that ―the judiciary is
India's best nationalized industry. As a whole it earns more than it spends.
In that sense, it can also be described as the `least expensive branch‖.
753\. The 189th Report of Law Commission (2004) noted the following:-
―It is well-known that the Law Commission had stated in its 120th Report that
we in India have only W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 429 of 531 10.5 judges per
million population while countries like US and UK and others have between 100
to 150 Judges per million population. The Union Government and the States in
India had not toned up the judicial system in the last five decades so that
today we are faced with tremendous backlog of cases in our Courts.‖ (Emphasis
by us)
754\. It has thus been repeatedly emphasized that one of the main reasons for
delay in administering justice, which is another violation of fundamental
rights, is for the reason that the number of cases being filed every year is
not static but on the increase while the number of judges remains static and
insufficient.
755\. The 189th Law Commission Report has clearly concluded that the plan
investment in the administration of justice is totally inadequate. It is for
this reason that the Department of Justice had approached the 11th Finance
Commission for non-plan assistance to set up additional courts for expediting
the trial of long pending cases. The 11th Finance Commission, after discussing
with Law Secretaries of major States, had made recommendations for grant of
Rs.502.9 crores under Art. 275 of the Constitution of India to set up 1,734
additional courts known as Fast Track Courts which were to continue only till
2005. The reluctance to provide (if not refusal) the funding for this
essential state function has necessitated the consideration and directions in
the All India Judge‟s case (supra) and recently in Brij Lal‟s case (supra).
W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 430 of 531
756\. To meet all these challenges facing the judiciary effectively, the then
Chief Justice of India, Justice S. H. Kapadia, after consulting the Minister
of Law and Justice in the Government of India established the National Court
Management Systems (NCMS) in May, 2012 and released a ‗Policy & Action Plan'
document on 27th September, 2012 to implement it. The National Court
Management Systems will function under the overall control of the Chief
Justice of India to primarily deal with policy issues relating to the
judiciary.
757\. The ‗NCMS Policy & Action Plan' document lays emphasis on the role of
the government. It notes certain essential facts which are relevant for the
present consideration. It has noted that India has one of the largest judicial
systems in the world - with over 3 crore cases and sanctioned strength of some
18,871 Judges (as on 31.12.2011). The system has expanded rapidly in the last
three decades, reflecting India's social, economic and political development
in this period. It is estimated that the number of Judges/Courts expanded six
fold while the number of cases expanded by double that number - twelve fold.
The judicial system is set to continue to expand significantly over the next
three decades, rising, by the most conservative estimate, to at least about 15
crore of cases requiring at least some 75,000 Courts/Judges.
758\. The action plan is premised on the urgent need to make the judicial
system free of cases more than five years old; shorten the average life cycle
of all cases - not only time spent within each W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 431 of
531 court, but also total time in the judicial system as a whole, to bring the
average to no more than about one year in each court and the need to
systematically maintain and continuously seek to enhance quality and
responsiveness of justice has been agitating the minds of all concerned. That
is the necessity and importance of ensuring the fundamental right of access to
justice to all.
759\. So far as the issue of resources and funds for justice dispensation is
concerned, the Action Plan notes the following important facts:
> ―4.7 Judicial independence cannot be interpreted only as a right to decide a
> matter without interference. If the institution of Judiciary is not
> independent resource-wise and/or in relation to funds, from the interference
> of the Executive, judicial independence will become redundant and
> inconsequential. Executive cannot be allowed to interfere in the
> administration of Justice by holding back funds for development of judicial
> infrastructure and expansion of Courts and declining right to appoint
> sufficient staff, etc. The concept of independence of judiciary further
> conceives that Judges cannot be allowed to be overburdened by continuous
> pressure of deciding large number cases at the cost of quality of
> adjudication.
> 4.8 Entry 11A was introduced in the Concurrent List of Schedule 7 of the
> Constitution of India in 1977 vide 42nd Amendment Act of 1976. By this
> Amendment, subject of ―Administration of Justice;
constitution and organization of all Courts, except Supreme Court and High
Courts‖ was brought in the W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 432 of 531 Concurrent List
of the Constitution. It has become incumbent on the Central Government to make
sufficient and appropriate provisions in Budget, keeping in view the Central
Laws so as to share the burden of States. As far as possible, the sharing
between Centre and the State should be in the ratio of 50-50 %. Policies may
have to be framed in such a way that Centre and State do not play blame-game
against each other at the cost of administration of justice."
760\. The ‗NCMS Policy & Action Plan' document further notes the following:
> ―4.10 For the development of judicial infrastructure, time has come when
> States should provide requisite resources to the Judiciary without
> cutting/rejecting the demands made by it so that it is able to smoothly
> discharge its judicial functions. Legislature enacts new legislations and
> increases the workload of Judiciary and, on the other hand, Executive holds
> back funds and facilities as required for administration of Justice which
> tantamounts to interference in the administration of justice. One Branch of
> the Constitution should not ideally decline the needs of another parallel
> Branch thereby creating difficulties in discharge of its constitutional
> responsibilities.
4.11 The Government may not enact new Laws without assessing the judicial
impact and without assessing the number of new cases the new Legislation would
generate. Enactment of new Laws results in floodgates of new cases generated
by new Legislations and refusal of resources towards litigation generated by
such new Legislations may not be in the interest of the country. In case the
State W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 433 of 531 does not provide necessary support
of sufficient and fully furnished infrastructure and trained and sufficient
personnel by way of Judges/Judicial Officers and Staff, the blame on the
judiciary would be misplaced on account of pending number of cases in courts.
xxx xxx xxx 4.14 It is bounden duty of the Central Government and State
Governments to make adequate provisions for sufficient and furnished
infrastructure for High Courts as well as Subordinate Courts."
(Emphasis by us)
761\. In the chapter 10, titled, ―BUDGET‖, the document notes the fact that:
> ―10.2 Providing sufficient Budget to Judiciary has to be the highest
> priority of the State. Appropriate facilities have to be made available to
> maintain judicial independence, efficiency and dignity.‖ (Emphasis by us) It
> is essential to note that even this document makes no reference to court fee
> as a source for funding the judiciary. The linkage between provision of
> adequate funds by the state and independence of the judiciary is reiterated.
762\. We find that in other jurisdictions as well, a similar view has been
taken. The Judicial Conference of the United States (JCUS),
W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 434 of 531 concerned with all issues concerning the
judiciary as a whole, has suggested a Long Range Plan for the Federal Courts
to guide future administrative action and policy development by it and other
authorities. The JCUS has recommended that ―the Federal courts should obtain
resources adequate to ensure the proper discharge of their constitutional and
statutory mandates‖ (in Chapter 8, titled ‗Resources').
763\. The JCUS noted that ―chronic failure to provide adequate resources puts
federal judges in the unfortunate position of supplicants, constantly begging
the Congress for funds‖.
764\. The JCUS has also commented on the effect of enacting new legislation
connecting the same to the added burden on the judiciary and suggested that
the Congress should ―refrain from enacting new legislation that adds to the
workload of the federal courts without also approving sufficient funds for the
judiciary to meet its obligations under that legislation‖.
765\. The Judicial Conference of the US has alternatively recommended that
―Congress should be urged to reduce the judiciary's existing obligations
sufficiently to offset the impact of any new legislation with a quantifiable
judicial impact‖.
766\. So far as courts in the Union Territories (including Delhi) are
concerned, there is another difficulty. As grants under Article 275 of the
Constitution are a devolution to the States, the Union Territories were left
out of the purview of the grant. The Delhi W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 435 of 531
High Court proposed setting up fast track courts in Delhi and so did the Union
Territory of Chandigarh. Funds were provided in the current financial year for
setting up fast track courts in Delhi as a Union Territory.
767\. The respondents do not provide details of amounts received from the
Central Government. However, the Action Plan 2012 of the NCMS makes the
following important recommendation with regard to the finances for the
judiciary:-
> ―4.9 Judiciary needs to be separately dealt with in the Plans by the
> Planning Commission and separate allocation is necessary by the Planning
> Commission and the Finance Commission. Experience shows that States have
> been making negligible provision in the Budgets to the third pillar of
> democracy, i.e., Judiciary. This is revealed from the following figures:
Yearwise percentage allocation of Budget to Judiciary and few other major
Departments in each State (as available) for the years 2006-09 to 2010-11
Delhi Sl. No. Year Judiciary Social Welfare Health Education 1 2006-07 1.08
1.38 6.89 13.52 2 2007-08 0.92 1.20 6.59 11.81 3 2008-09 1.23 1.73 6.24 11.98
4 2009-10 1.12 2.67 7.28 14.94 5 2010-11 1.41 3.10 7.35 13.92 (Emphasis by us)
W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 436 of 531
768\. The ‗Policy and Action Plan' statement 2012 of the NCMS has also
collated information regarding developments since 12.07.2010 when the Supreme
Court of India started monitoring infrastructure till date mentioned. So far
as Delhi is concerned, the information received and tabulated by the NCMS is
as below:-
> [FIGURE - 5] Updated as on 16/9/2012 FORMAT-E Developments between
> 12.07.2010 till date.
(Court Buildings) Sl. Name of Total Total Total number Total Total Remarks No
State / number number of of proposals amounts number of (detailing Union of
Proposals cleared by the sanctioned court problems, Territories proposals
cleared State (in lakhs) buildings of if any, cleared by the High Governments/
for which being by Court Administrators infrastructure construction faced for
Collectors for for (including has early and construction construction new been
got progress in land of of new court construction; completed proceeding
acquired new court buildings repairs; and with buildings granting maintenance)
projects) administrative and financial sanction  1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 xxx @10 Govt.
Of 0 0 0 0.000 1 NCT of Delhi Xxx @ Data has not yet been received, hence the
data of previous year has been included.
* Column No. 6 contains the amount for the Financial year 2010-11 to 2012-13. 
             W.P.(C)No.4770/2012                                            page 437 of 531
                                             [FIGURE - 6]
                                      FORMAT-F
Developments between 12.07.2010 till date.
(Residential Quarters) Sl. Name of Total Total Total number Total Total
Remarks No State / number number of of proposals amounts number of (detailing
Union of Proposals cleared by the sanctioned court problems, Territories
proposals cleared State (in lakhs) buildings of if any, cleared by the High
Governments/ for which being by Court Administrators infrastructure
construction faced for Collectors for for (including has early and
construction construction new been got progress in land of of new court
construction; completed proceeding acquired new court buildings repairs; and
with buildings granting maintenance) projects) administrative and financial
sanction  1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 xxx @10 Govt. Of 0 0 0 0.000 0 NCT of Delhi xxx @
Data has not yet been received, hence the data of previous year has been
updated.
* Column No. 6 contains the amount for the Financial year 2010-11 to 2012-13. 
769\. These recent tabulations manifest that the respondents have not
furnished the required data about Delhi to enable formulation of policy and
planning for the Delhi judiciary, supporting the petitioner's contention that
the exercise to enhance the court fee is based on no assessment and evaluation
of the relevant material and it has been effected arbitrarily. If the
obligation to ensure a sound judiciary rests on the state and the Central
Government is W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 438 of 531 constitutionally mandated
ensure adequate funds to the Union Territory, it would be difficult to accept
the impugned enhancement of court fee to recover the costs being incurred on
the provision of the court system. It is evident that the Central Government
has been releasing amounts under the Central Sponsored Scheme to the State
Governments as well as Delhi for development of infrastructure, which given
the disclosure in their affidavits, as well as the record placed before us
establishes, has not been considered by the respondents while effecting the
court fee enhancement.
770\. Again the figures available from Department of Justice noted in the
policy statement are as under:-
[FIGURE - 7] STATEMENT GIVING GRANTS RELEASED UNDER CSS SCHEME FOR
INFRASTRUCTURAL FACILITIES FOR JUDICIARY Sl. State Release from 1993- Release
in Release in Total No 94 to 2010-11 2011-2012 2012-13 (1993-94 to 2012-13)
xxx
5\. Delhi 3647.08 2250.00 2000.00 7897.08
771\. Significantly, the respondents disclose no aspect of the funding or
expenditure and no deficit to justify enhancement of the court fee.
W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 439 of 531
772\. Interestingly, as per the ―Analysis of the Budgetary Transactions of
State Government‖ of the Government of NCT of Delhi, the Delhi Government is
treating administration of justice under the head of ―public order and
safety‖.
773\. Under Article 266 of the Constitution of India, all revenues received by
the Government of India form the Consolidated Fund of India whereas all
revenues received by the State form the Consolidated Fund of the State. The
expenditure incurred for the purposes of the Supreme Court and the High Courts
is charged upon the Consolidated Fund of India whereas the expenditure for the
purposes of the subordinate courts and the administration expenses of the High
Courts is charged upon the Consolidated Fund of the State.
774\. The respondents have made no claim at all before us that they are not in
a position to bear the costs which are incurred in Delhi on the administration
of justice. Even if made, such a submission, in the light of the repeated
reiteration responsibility of the State to maintain the judiciary, by the
Supreme Court, is constitutionally untenable.
On the contrary, the counter affidavit has stated that the enhancement of the
court fee is for reasons of increasing the ―general revenue‖ of the Government
of NCT of Delhi. This reason for enhancement of the court fee colours the levy
with the lines of ‗taxation' rather than a ‗fee'.
W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 440 of 531
775\. In para 3 of the counter affidavit, the respondents have categorically
urged that ―court fee is a source of recovery of expenses for the Government,
which is made to ensure the provision of an appropriate and sufficient
infrastructure and financial support for consistent and effective
administration of justice‖. In para 4 of the counter affidavit, after noticing
the aforesaid reasons stated, the respondents have stated that ―it was only
logical and financially prudent and indeed imperative that the court fee
structure be revised to make them realistic‖. The given reasons are
constitutionally impressible to effect enhancement of court fee, given the
impact on the right of access to justice.
776\. The respondents have taken a position that government can recover fees
for ―services rendered‖. It has further been submitted by the respondents that
the ―fee is payable only by a consumer of justice and is not levied on all
residents/domiciles in the NCT of Delhi. It is also a policy of good
governance that these expenses should be recovered to a reasonable extent so
as to facilitate the strengthening of infrastructure and system of justice in
the NCT of Delhi‖. This stand has also been emphasized in para 13 of the
written submissions filed on 21st September, 2012. The stand taken is not
supported by any empirical data or research. The above discussion would show
that this submission is completely untenable and is violative of the
Constitutional mandate.
777\. It is noteworthy that the Central government grant covered the
functioning of the Fast Track Sessions Courts only. However,
W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 441 of 531 a large number of criminal cases are
pending in the regular courts which are triable by the Magistrates. Therefore,
the Department of Justice had approached the 12th Finance Commission with a
proposal to set up fast track magisterial courts as well. Nothing is known as
to what became of this proposal. A reflection on the engagement with
administration of justice!
778\. It has been pointed out by Mr. Chandhiok, learned Senior Counsel that in
Brij Lal (supra)the Supreme Court did not even remotely suggest that the
respondents could enhance court fee to recover the cost of provision of fast
track courts while issuing the mandamus to the Government. It is, therefore,
trite that to provide an expeditious and fair trial mechanism, a basic
constitutionally recognized right which inheres in every person, it is the
constitutional duty of the state which is required to provide the adequate
finances to the institution to ensure the independence and impartiality of the
judiciary. The burden of bearing the cost thereof cannot ideally be
transferred to the citizens.
779\. The above narration would show that there is no holistic planning for
the administration of justice in the country or for the expenditure thereon.
There appears to be no budgetary allocation or division of liability for
administration of justice between the Centre and the State. No heed is paid to
the constitutional mandate. The dicta in the binding judicial pronouncements
noted above sees no compliance, while the reports of the Law Commission of
India on the issue gather dust! So far as States and Union Territories and
W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 442 of 531 court fee impositions are concerned, there
is no cohesion. There are sharp deviations from one State/Union Territory to
another. It is however noteworthy that neither the documents and reports
noticed by us nor the jurisprudence on the subjects suggest that court fee can
be used as a source for funding administration of justice. In fact the same
adversely impacts the fundamental rights of the persons under Articles 4, 16,
21 and is in violation of the constitutional mandate which requires the State
to ensure an adequate and efficient justice dispensation mechanism for the
nation- a judiciary which the Constitution recognizes as one of the pillars on
which the edifice of democracy rests.
780\. It is trite that administration of justice is a sovereign function and
the responsibility for providing an adequate system of justice rests squarely
on the State. It has been held that it is acceptable for the State to recover
some amount as court fee. However, the court fee regime is necessarily to be
based on some empirical data and consideration of essential inputs and an
appropriate expert evaluation. A mere differential between the amount
recovered through court fee and the total expenditure incurred on the
judiciary is by itself insufficient to permit the State to impose a particular
court fee regime or enhance the existing regime to such levels so as to make
good the differential or, as the above discussion of the amended entries in
the instant case would show, to make a profit.
781\. To support a plea of a considered view having been taken on
W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 443 of 531 the relevant material, the respondents
were bound to have disclosed the funds made available by the Central
Government in addition to the dispensation by the Government of NCT of Delhi
for the administration of justice in the present case. The respondents have
scrupulously withheld even a reference to these details in the counter
affidavit. None of the tabulations placed before the court make any disclosure
of the funds which are in the hands of the Government of NCT of Delhi.
782\. The above tabulations of comparative percentages of expenditure of
administration of justice in Delhi viz a vis that in other States. This
exercise in our view is completely irrelevant as given the disparate
situations in different States, there can be no meaningful comparison.
Furthermore Delhi as the capital of the country, would be in a privileged
position so far as Central dispensation is concerned. What is relevant, and of
concern, is the miniscule percentage of the total budgeting, which is spent on
administration of justice - clearly a wholly inadequate amount. The
respondents were required to establish that they have discharged their
constitutional obligations, which they have failed to do so.
(XI) Past recommendations for total abolition, or, in any case, reduction of
court fee need reiteration
783\. It appears that there was, indeed, a move at one time, for abolition of
court fees altogether. The Consultative Committee attached to the Ministry of
Law and Justice, at its meeting in June W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 444 of 531
1980, set up a Sub-Committee to go into the question of court fees in trial
Courts. The Sub-Committee in its report recommended abolition of court fees.
The exercise was again undertaken by a Sub-Committee set up by the Conference
of Law Ministers which submitted its report in October 1984. This Sub
Committee did not recommend abolition of court fees but recommended
rationalization in the structure of court fee, broadly through reduction in ad
valorem fee, exemption of certain categories of litigants and certain
categories of cases from payment/levy of court fee and refund of court fee
under certain circumstances.
784\. The Law Commission in its 128th Report on Cost of Litigation (1988)
expressed its views in favour of abolition of court fees. The Commission
stated (para 4.6):
> ―However, the Law Commission would be extremely happy if the State
> Governments or the Government of India, as the case may be, view the court
> fees as something incompatible with a society governed by rule of law and
> would, therefore, like to abolish it.‖ (Emphasis supplied)
785\. It also appears that there was a proposal to amend the Court Fees Act,
1870 which was examined in detail in 1999 by the Department of Justice. The
exercise was undertaken in pursuance of the recommendations of the Expert
Group appointed by the Ministry of Home Affairs to review Acts etc.
administered by the said Ministry. However, with the approval of the then
Minister of W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 445 of 531 Law and Justice, it was
decided not to amend the Act.
786\. The Law Commission of India and the courts have consistently opposed the
idea that raising court fees can be justified in the name of reducing the
number of litigants who come to court. In other words, to discourage vexatious
litigation, the preamble to the Bengal Regulation of 1795 stated that
increased court fees were necessary to drive away unmeritorious litigants.
Lord Macaulay, Chairman of the First Law Commission of India had declared that
this was ―absurd‖. He stated that that such increase will also drive away
honest plaintiffs who are unable to pay court fees.
787\. We have noted that the Court Fees Act, 1870 also does not have a
preamble, but the legislative purpose of the statute is discernible from the
language of the Act, the Statement of Objects and Reasons in the enactment and
the numerous pronouncements on this subject. Four points run through the
jurisprudence on the subject and are worth highlighting with respect to the
legislative purpose: (a) the desire to ensure that high court fees do not
deter prospective litigants; (b) the goal of generating revenue for the state;
(c) the legislative intent not to discriminate between litigants by imposing a
uniform court fee; and (d) the intent to keep out vexatious litigation.
a. Limiting the Deterrent Effect of Increased Court Fees
788\. First, a close reading of the Statement of Objects and Reasons (‗SOR')
of the 1870 Act points to a legislative intent to W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 446
of 531 reduce the deterrent effect of higher court fees imposed by preceding
court fees statutes. The SOR makes clear that the higher fees imposed by the
preceding Court Fees Act, 1867, were tentative, and that time had shown that
these higher fees were having a deterrent effect on litigation. The
legislative response to this inhibiting effect was to reduce the rates of fees
charged for the institution of civil suits and install a cap on the maximum
chargeable fee.
789\. The above narration manifests the legislative objective of reducing
court fees in order to ensure that litigation is not inhibited is evident
throughout the SOR. Thus, the SOR highlights the need for: fee reductions for
suits relating to land, for petitions in the Criminal Courts, and suits for
the restitution of wives; a fixed valuation for certain types of common suits;
a fee exception in the case of petitions to a Revenue Officer or magistrate by
individuals who have dealings with Government, and for suits instituted in
Military Courts; and the establishment of a fixed fee rather than the previous
ad volorem fee charged to certain summary suits.
790\. Similar sentiments were expressed by the Supreme Court in 1989 Supp (1)
SCC 696, P.M. Ashwathanarayanaa Setty v. State of Karnataka, where ad valorem
and unlimited court fees proposed by legislation introduced in Rajasthan and
Karnataka were at issue. Quoting from A.P. Herbert's ‗More Uncommon Law,'
Venkatachaliah J (as he then was), wrote:
W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 447 of 531 ―That if the Crown must charge for
justice, at least the fee should be like the fee for postage: that is to say,
it should be the same, however long the journey may be. For it is no fault of
one litigant that his plea to the King's Judges raises questions more
difficult to determine than another's and will require a longer hearing in
Court. He is asking for justice, not renting house property.‖
791\. Thus, it appears that the language of the Court Fees Act, 1870 indicates
a legislative intent to ensure that court fees are not increased for the
purpose of deterring prospective litigants.
b. Generating Revenue
792\. Second, early decisions also suggest that one legislative purpose of the
Act is the generation of revenue. Thus, the Privy Council observed in (1919)
21 BOMLR 489, Rachappa v. Sidappa as follows:
> ―The Court Fees Act was passed not to arm a litigant with a weapon of
> technicality against his opponent, but to secure revenue for the benefit of
> the State. This is evident from the character of the Act, and is brought out
> by Section 12, which makes the decision of the First Court as to value final
> as between the parties, and enables a Court of appeal to correct any error
> as to this, only where the First Court decided to the detriment of the
> revenue.‖ (Emphasis added) This passage has subsequently been cited as an
> authority for the proposition that the legislative purpose of the Court Fees
> Act, W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 448 of 531 1870 is revenue generation. (For
> instance, also in 1991 (0) MPLJ 774, Mahamdoo v. Shiekh Gafoor).
793\. This position was reiterated thereafter in AIR 1955 Cal 258, Tarachand
Ghanshyamdas v. State of West Bengal; (1955) ILR MAD 1179, Perumal Chetti v.
Province of Madras & Ors.; AIR 1955 MAD. 382 (384), Perumal Chetti v. Province
of Madras and Ors.; and 1980 MPLJ 618 (620), Manorma Sharma v Suresh Kumar
Sharma. However, this objective has been held to be unacceptable as would be
evident from the following discussion.
c. Non-Discrimination of Litigants
794\. The language of the Court Fees Act, 1870 also makes clear that the
legislature intended that wheresoever permissible and possible, at least one
type of court fee (process fees) to apply equally to all litigants. This is
evident from the following statement in the Statement of Objects and Reasons
of the Act:
> ―In lieu of the existing rates of process-fees, which vary according to the
> distance of the Court by which the processes are issued from the place where
> they are to be served or executed, it is proposed to levy, by means of
> stamps, a uniform rate in all cases. All suitors will thus be required to
> contribute in equal proportion to the maintenance of the establishment
> employed in the serving of processes, without reference to the length of
> time occupied in each service and the consequent amount of work rendered on
> behalf of each person at whose instance any process is served or executed.‖
> (Emphasis added) W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 449 of 531 This language suggests
> that the legislature intended process fees, and perhaps court fees
> generally, to operate in a non-
discriminatory fashion. The Law Commission of India in its 189th Report has
also noted, the Act ―implicitly recognized the principle of non-discrimination
among litigants in the matter of process fees.‖ This reading of the
legislative purpose is supported by the Supreme Court's view in a catena of
judgments that all fees charged must be uniform in order not to be considered
a tax. It is therefore well settled that court fee cannot be fixed at such
level as would deter prospective litigants; it must not discriminate between
litigants by a uniform imposition.
(XII) Impact of new legislation
795\. There is another important factor impacting justice dispensation and
therefore access to justice which has not been given the deserved attention.
It needs no elaboration that the number of cases directly impacts dispensation
of justice. The inevitable consequence of additional litigation is increased
need to additional infrastructure by way of more courts and facilities and
hence the need for finances. The Courts in India work rights and violations
under laws enacted by the Central Government as well as those by the State
Legislatures. These laws may create new civil rights and obligations or create
new criminal offences. Unfortunately before introduction of such legislations,
no judicial impact assessment is undertaken by the legislature or the
executive.
W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 450 of 531 Therefore, there can be no planning as to
how many civil cases the proposed legislation may generate or how many
criminal cases will go before the Courts.
796\. The 189th Report of Law Commission advised that before any new law is
made by Parliament or a State Legislature may be introduced, a judicial impact
assessment that estimates the impact of the proposed statute on the courts
must be completed. Central to such an assessment is an estimate of the number
of new civil and criminal cases that will be generated should the proposed
statute be enacted.
797\. The Supreme Court in (2005) 6 SCC 344 Salem Advocate Bar Assn (II). v.
Union of India took note of a recommendation made by an ad hoc Committee for
judicial impact assessments for new legislation noting as follows:-
―49. The Committee has also suggested that:
―Further, there must be 'judicial impact assessment', as done in the United
States, whenever any legislation is introduced either in Parliament or in the
State Legislatures. The financial memorandum attached to each Bill must
estimate not only the budgetary requirement of other staff but also the
budgetary requirement for meeting the expenses of the additional cases that
may arise out of the new Bill when it is passed by the legislature. The said
budget must mention the number of civil and criminal cases likely to be
generated by the new Act, how many courts are necessary, how many judges and
staff are necessary and what is the infrastructure necessary. So far in the
last fifty years such a judicial impact W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 451 of 531
assessment has never been made by any legislature or by Parliament in our
country.'‖
798\. Whether it can be said that the law now requires a judicial impact
assessment to be incorporated into all proposed legislation is unclear.
However, recent obiter of the Supreme Court suggests a growing concern with
the need for judicial impact assessments.
799\. The relevance of this assessment in the present context cannot be
sufficiently emphasised. In (2012) 6 SCC 502, Brij Mohan Lal v. Union of
India, the Court had occasion to consider the question of staffing of newly
instituted fast-track courts. In the course of discussing the backlog of cases
in the country, the Court observed:
> ―148. Another very important aspect, which has often been noticed by this
> Court, is that the legislature, in exercise of its power, has enacted
> various Central and State laws. The disputes arising under these laws are to
> be adjudicated upon by the courts. It is a known fact that such legislations
> are not preceded by judicial impact assessment by the authorities
> concerned.‖
800\. The Law Commission has also noted that the Central Government is
bringing forward legislation in Parliament and burdening the subordinate
Courts established by the State Governments with cases arising out of the
Central legislation. It was noted that the Central Government has however not
been making any contribution for establishing trial and appellate courts
W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 452 of 531 in the States. This lacuna has been
pointed out by the National Commission for Review of the Constitution as well.
801\. The same position exists in Delhi. No information in this regard has
been provided by the Delhi Government in this regard.
802\. Judicial impact assessment is therefore of primary concern in the case
of a proposed Central or State legislation that will affect the amount of
litigation. It would seem that a judicial impact assessment would be of
special concern in the case of a statute that will unquestionably affect the
volume of litigation, and hence, the costs of providing the justice
administration system.
803\. Before enhancing court fee, this important aspect of the matter deserved
attention. But have the respondents considered this aspect of the matter?
Unfortunately, the answer is an absolute ‗no'.
804\. The responsibility for funding litigation so generated thus cannot be
diverted to those seeking to access justice dispensation by imposition of or
enhancement of the court fee regime.
(XIII)Mere hardship would not ipso facto be a ground for striking down a
statutory provision
805\. It is trite that mere hardship cannot be a ground for striking down a
statutory provision and that there is a presumption of constitutionality
attached to a legislation.
W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 453 of 531
806\. Hardship or inconvenience caused to any party by a statutory provision
cannot also be used as a basis to alter the meaning of the language of the
legislation, if its meaning is clear upon a bare perusal of the enactment. If
the language is clean and hence allows only one meaning, the same is to be
effected to, even it causes hardship or possible injustice.
(XIV) Presumption of constitutionality in favour of a legislation
807\. Placing reliance on (1981) 4 SCC 675, R.K. Garg v. Union of India, the
respondents have submitted that there is a presumption in favour of the
constitutionality of a statute and the burden is on the party that seeks to
challenge it to show that there has been a transgression of constitutional
principles. The respondents have further urged that the petitioner's challenge
to the constitutionality of a legislative enactment must be clear, specific
and unambiguous and must contain sufficient particulars (Ref: 1989 (4) SCC
470, Bank of Baroda v. Rednam Nagachaya Devi) and that is for the petitioners
to submit before the court material establishing that the impugned law is
irreconcilable with the constitutional guarantees under Article 14.
808\. The respondents press the argument that keeping in view the presumption
in favour of the constitutionality of the impugned statute, this Court must
presume that the legislature was aware and considered the possible
consequences of an increase in court fees as well as the sharp increase in the
costs of maintaining the W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 454 of 531 machinery for the
administration of justice. They submit that it is the legislature and not the
judiciary which is best placed to consider competing policy consideration and
the court cannot substitute its judgment for that of the legislature in such
matters.
809\. The petitioners have specifically set up a plea that the impugned
legislation violates Article 14 as well as other constitutional provisions.
810\. In (1981) 4 SCC 675, R.K. Garg v. Union of India, the petitioner
challenged the constitutionality of the provisions of the Special Bearer Bonds
(Immunities and Exemptions) Act, 1981 inter alia on the ground that by
conferring immunities and exemptions in favour of black money holders had
discriminated against honest tax payers and therefore violative of Article 14.
It was argued that the classification made under it was motivated to condone
concentration of black wealth which is destructive. The court rejected the
challenge on the ground that the immunity was a severely restricted one and is
the bare minimum immunity necessary in order to induce holders of black money
to bring out in the open and invest it in the special bearer bonds, making it
available to the State for productive purposes. The petitioner's argument was
held to be highly theoretical. The petitioners had also challenged the
enactment on the ground that it offended against morality. The factual matrix
laid down hereinabove clearly shows that it has no application so far as the
present consideration is concerned. In para 7 of R.K. Garg v. Union of India
(supra), the W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 455 of 531 court held and pronounced as
follows:-
> ―7. Now while considering the constitutional validity of a statute said to
> be violative of Article 14, it is necessary to bear in mind certain well
> established principles which have been evolved by the courts as rules of
> guidance in discharge of its constitutional function of judicial review. The
> first rule is that there is always a presumption in favour of the
> constitutionality of a statute and the burden is upon him who attacks it to
> show that there has been a clear transgression of the constitutional
> principles. This rule is based on the assumption, judicially recognised and
> accepted, that the legislature understands and correctly appreciates the
> needs of its own people, its laws are directed to problems made manifest by
> experience and its discrimination are based on adequate grounds. The
> presumption of constitutionality is indeed so strong that in order to
> sustain it, the Court may take into consideration matters of common
> knowledge, matters of common report, the history of the times and may assume
> every state of facts which can be conceived existing at the time of
> legislation.‖
811\. While drawing up ―common knowledge, matter of common report, history of
the times and assumption of every State of fact which can be conceived
existing at the time of legislation‖ in the present case, it is impossible to
ignore the deleterious effect on litigation of the court fee enhancement by
the Act of 1867 necessitating its reduction by the Act of 1870. The detailed
reports of the Law Commission of India and observations in jurisprudence from
India and abroad amply militate against enhancement of court
W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 456 of 531 fee. The respondents have examined no
material at all before proceeding with the proposal of the court fee
enhancement. Under the shield of ‗rationalization', the respondents have
proceeded to enhance the court fee, in some instances by many hundred times.
The violation of the several constitutional principles have been noticed by us
in the earlier part of this judgment. In this background, the consideration by
the Supreme Court in R.K. Garg v. Union of India (supra) has no application to
the instant case.
812\. The basis of the constitutional violations has also been pleaded in the
writ petitions. It is well settled that an objection in law can be raised and
urged in support of a Constitutional challenge. The respondents have
understood the pleas raised by the petitioners and attempted to respond in the
counter affidavit. As such the objection that the petitioners have not
adequately pleaded the constitutional violations is misconceived and
untenable.
813\. The respondents further state that the Supreme Court in Bank of Baroda
(supra) held that if the existence of certain facts and circumstances was
necessary to preserve the constitutionality of an impugned law, those facts
and circumstances could be presumed to exist by the court. The principles laid
down in a judgment have to be read and applied in the light of the facts of
case. In Bank of Baroda (supra), to the appellant's suit for recovery of
money, the respondent had set up the defence that Section 13 of the Andhra
Pradesh (Andhra Area) Agriculturist W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 457 of 531 Relief
Act (4 of 1938) prohibited charging of compound interest as a defence. No
challenge to the constitutionality of any provision of Andhra Pradesh (Andhra
Area) Agriculturist Relief Act (4 of 1938) was laid. Yet the court had ruled
that the classification under the statutory provision was violative of Article
14. Hence, the objection by the Supreme Court to the ruling by the appellate
court. In the present case, this court is considering constitutional challenge
to the validity of the statutory enactment which is premised on grounds of
violation of the provisions. As such the judgment in Bank of Baroda (supra)
also has no application to the instant case.
814\. Conscious of the above well settled principle, we have examined the
challenge in these writ petitions within the parameters of permissible
judicial review.
(XV) Court Fee - a matter of fiscal policy - Scope of judicial review
815\. The respondents have raised an objection to the challenge in these writ
petitions submitting that court fee is a matter of fiscal policy which is
beyond the scope of judicial review.
816\. It was held in A. Setty (supra) that the question of the appropriateness
of the measure of a tax or a fee is a matter of fiscal policy. The Supreme
Court also considered the discretion given to the legislature in matters of
economic and fiscal policy and regulation. In A Setty (supra) the Supreme
Court ruled on the W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 458 of 531 question of whether the
measure of the fee should be ad valorem, is a matter of fiscal policy in the
following terms:-
> ―The problem is, indeed, a complex one not free from its own peculiar
> difficulties. Though other legislative measures dealing with economic
> regulation are not outside Article 14, it is well recognized that the State
> enjoys the widest latitude where measures of economic regulation are
> concerned. These measures for fiscal and economic regulation involve an
> evaluation of diverse and quite often conflicting economic criteria and
> adjustment and balancing of various conflicting social and economic values
> and interests. It is for the State to decide what economic and social policy
> it should pursue and what discriminations advance those social and economic
> policies. In view of the inherent complexity of these fiscal adjustments,
> courts give a larger discretion to the Legislature in the matter of its
> preferences of economic and social policies and effectuate the chosen system
> in all possible and reasonable ways. If two or more methods of adjustments
> of an economic measure are available, the Legislative preference in favour
> of one of them cannot be questioned on the ground of lack of legislative
> wisdom or that the method adopted is not the best or that there were better
> ways of adjusting the competing interests and claims. (para 79 of A. Setty)
> [Also quoted in para 12 of P.R. Sriramulu (supra)]
817\. Certain important observations on this aspect in the judgment (1996) 1
SCC 345, Secretary of Govt. of Madras & Ors. V. Shri P.R. Sriramulu & Ors. may
also be usefully extracted and read as under:-
W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 459 of 531 ―It cannot be disputed that the
administration of justice is one of the main functions of the State. It is
also a fact that the functions of the State in the modern times have become
too extensive encompassing a large area of activity. Now the State has not
only to maintain system of administration of justice for the maintenance of
law and order, but it has also to provide a system to enable its citizens to
convass their rights against wrongs done to them as well as to the State
itself, statutory parties and Government Corporations, they being now the
largest litigants by reason of the growing tendency of all the States to
project themselves into various social, economic and industrial spheres of the
society, which during pre- independence days, was a rare phenomena. It is for
all these reasons that the States came forward to levy fee by legislative
amendments in order to cover up the expenses towards the pay, allowances and
pensions of Judicial Officers and establishment staff, their residential
accommodations. Court buildings repairs and maintenance thereof as well as
provision for transport, libraries and stationery, besides other expenses
under various heads and machinery engaged and employed for the administration
of justice. (para 7) xxx xxx xxx It is also well settled that lack of
perfection in a legislative measure does not necessarily imply its
constitutionality as no economic measure has so far been discovered which is
free from all discriminatory impact and that in such a complex area in which
no fool proof device exists, the Court should be slow in imposing strict and
rigorous standard of scrutiny by reason of which all local fiscal schemes may
be subjected to criticism under the Equal Protection clause. Having regard to
these settled principles the W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 460 of 531 impugned
Judgment of the High Court could not be sustained. (para 15) xxx xxx xxx
818\. The above discussion would show that mere legislative imperfection would
not necessarily imply that law was not constitutional. The Supreme Court
however is clearly of the view that the value of the suit alone could not
justify, the levy of the court fee; that for a court fee levy to be
appropriate, it has to strictly satisfy all the relevant factors. Given the
impact of court fee regime on the fundamental right of access to justice, it
cannot simply be treated as an economic or a fiscal policy.
819\. It has been urged by Mr. A.S. Chandhiok, learned Senior counsel that the
issue of court fee does not fall under fiscal or economic policy but directly
relates to administration of justice. The petitioner has contended violation
of Article 14, 21 and 39A of the Constitution of India and as such this court
is fully justified in examining the challenged raised by the petitioner to the
enhancement of the court fee by the impugned legislation. In this regard
reliance is placed on the pronouncement of the Supreme Court reported at
(2012) 6 SCC 312, State of M.P. v. Rakesh Kohli.
820\. We may usefully advert to the distinction drawn by the Supreme Court so
far as legislation impacting fundamental rights is W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page
461 of 531 involved. This was pointed out in the following terms in (2008) 4
SCC 720 (at page 750), Government of A.P. v. P. Laxmi Devi thus:
> ―77. However, though while considering economic or most other legislation
> the court gives great latitude to the legislature when adjudging its
> constitutionality, a very different approach has to be adopted by the court
> when the question of civil liberties and the fundamental rights under Part
> III of the Constitution arise.
> 78\. In para 8 of the Constitution Bench decision in R.K. Garg case [R.K.
> Garg v. Union of India, (1981) 4 SCC 675 : 1982 SCC (Tax) 30] it was
> observed (as quoted above) that laws relating to economic activities should
> be viewed with greater latitude than laws touching civil rights such as
> freedom of speech, freedom of religion, etc. Thus, the Constitution Bench
> decision in R.K. Garg case [AIR 1960 SC 554] is an authority for the
> proposition which has been stated herein, namely, when a law of the
> legislature encroaches on the civil rights and civil liberties of the people
> mentioned in Part III of the Constitution (the fundamental rights), such as
> freedom of speech, freedom of movement, equality before law, liberty,
> freedom of religion, etc., the Court will not grant such latitude to the
> legislature as in the case of economic measures, but will carefully
> scrutinise whether the legislation on these subjects is violative of the
> rights and liberties of the citizens, and its approach must be to uphold
> those rights and liberties, for which it may sometimes even have to declare
> a statute to be unconstitutional.‖
821\. We find that even in matters relating to policy wherein a
W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 462 of 531 case of violation of constitutional
principles is made out is concerned, the Supreme Court has drawn a distinction
with regard to the duty of the court. In this regard, reference deserves to be
made to the pronouncement of the Supreme Court reported at (2012) 3 SCC 1,
Centre for Public Interest Litigation v. Union of India. The relevant extract
whereof reads as follows:-
> ―99. In majority of the judgments relied upon by the learned Attorney
> General and the learned counsel for the respondents, it has been held that
> the power of judicial review should be exercised with great care and
> circumspection and the Court should not ordinarily interfere with the policy
> decisions of the Government in financial matters. There cannot be any
> quarrel with the proposition that the Court cannot substitute its opinion
> for the one formed by the experts in the particular field and due respect
> should be given to the wisdom of those who are entrusted with the task of
> framing the policies. We are also conscious of the fact that the Court
> should not interfere with the fiscal policies of the State. However, when it
> is clearly demonstrated that the policy framed by the State or its
> agency/instrumentality and/or its implementation is contrary to public
> interest or is violative of the constitutional principles, it is the duty of
> the Court to exercise its jurisdiction in larger public interest and reject
> the stock plea of the State that the scope of judicial review should not be
> exceeded beyond the recognised parameters.‖
822\. Therefore all the elements of ensuring the right of access to justice to
the citizens as well as social justice are quintessential to the present
consideration. The present challenge to the W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 463 of
531 enhancement of the court fee cannot be brushed aside by terming it as
matter of economic or fiscal policy. When such a policy negatively impacts the
fundamental right of access to justice amongst others, this court is bound to
examine the challenge to protect essential constitutionally recognized rights
of the people.
(XVI) Whether amount collected as court fee to be spent entirely on
administration of justice?
823\. Learned Senior Counsel for the petitioner has vehemently challenged this
claim of the respondents, contending that access to justice is a
constitutional right granted to the citizens and that the judiciary does not
provide a ―service‖ as in common parlance. Placing reliance on Article 39A, it
is contended that equal justice and free legal aid is mandated to all persons
in the country so that ‗opportunities for securing justice' are not denied to
any citizen by reason of economic or other disabilities.
824\. Given the spirit, intendment and objects of recovery of court fee as
well as nature of the right which is directly impacted thereby, the right of
access to justice and courts; no increase of court fee can also be justified
merely on the ground that the government wishes to enhance the position of its
general revenue. It is astonishing that such an exercise to enhance the court
fee has been undertaken without any evaluation of the expenditure; heads of
expenditure; distribution of amounts spent on civil or criminal justice
dispensation; amounts spent on infrastructure.
W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 464 of 531
825\. It also needs no elaboration that so far as administration of justice is
concerned, a mere shortfall or gap between amount currently being expended by
the State and amount being recovered as court fee from the litigant does not
ipso facto provide the requisite correlation for basing an enhancement of the
court fees payable by the litigants. The State must establish that it has
discharged at least its minimal responsibility towards ensuring an adequate
and efficacious justice dispensation system before it can look towards court
fee as a form of cost recovery from the litigants.
826\. Critical areas of justice administration thus remain in unplanned
categories of the State's financial planning. The judge to population ratio in
our country remains probably the worst in the world. Even essential
requirements for justice dispensation (say, computers, legal journals,
transportation, and stationery even) require judicial intervention, as
manifested in the several judgments and court directions on these matters.
Despite repeated directions of the Supreme Court and recommendations of the
Law Commission (since Lord Macaulay who headed the First Law Commission to
those given by Justice M.J. Rao in 2004 in the 189 th Report on Court Fees),
hardly any effective steps towards capacity enhancement of the judiciary have
been undertaken. This dependence on arbitrary dispensations on a totally
essential government function is recognized as having a strong and deleterious
impact on judicial independence.
827\. The Supreme Court has categorically declared that the
W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 465 of 531 Central Government must bear fifty percent
of the expense of justice administration. So far as the criminal justice
dispensation is concerned, the same has to be established and maintained by
the State as its own cost. These factors would form an essential part of the
evaluation by the State of utilizing court fee as a tool for recoverable
component of expenditure incurred on the justice dispensation system.
Of course, the ideal situation being that of administration of justice is
recognized as the absolute and exclusive responsibility of the State.
(XVII) Judicial precedents on challenges to enhancement of court fee
828\. Mr. Harish Salve, learned senior counsel for the respondents has
contended that the contentions of the petitioners are not res integra and
stand concluded against them by authoritative pronouncements of the Supreme
Court. In this regard, our attention has been to the judgments reported at
(1973) 1 SCC 162, Secretary, Government of Madras v. Zenith Lamp and
Electrical (hereinafter referred to as the ‗Zenith Lamp case'); 1989 Suppl.
(1) SCC 696, P.M. Ashwathanarayana Setty v. State of Karnataka (hereinafter
referred to as ‗A. Setty') and; (1996) 1 SCC 345, Secretary to the Govt. of
Madras, Home Deptt. v. P.R. Sriramulu and Anr. (hereinafter referred to as
‗P.R. Sriramulu').
829\. In the Zenith Lamp case, the respondent had intended to file
W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 466 of 531 a suit in the Madras High Court on the
original side valued at Rs.2,06,552/- against the Revenue. On the question of
court fee payable in the intended suit, the petitioner filed a writ petition
in the High Court, praying that the High Court may be pleased to issue a writ
of mandamus or other direction or order declaring Rule 1 of the High Court Fee
Rules 1956 and the provisions of the Madras High Court Fees and Suits
Valuation Act 14 of 1955 to be invalid and ultra vires insofar as they related
to the levy of fees on an ad valorem scale. It was urged that the increase
made in 1955 and 1956 in the court fees payable was unjustifiable in the light
of the expenditure actually incurred in the administration of civil justice.
In its counter affidavit the State urged that the rates of fee prescribed
under the Court Fees Act of 1955 were not excessive and that the levy did not
amount to a tax on litigation. A supplemental affidavit was filed on behalf of
the State on 11 th October, 1966 in which various statements were given to
show that the expenditure on the administration of justice was higher than the
receipts. The petitioner objected that there were several inadmissible items
which had been taken into account. The High Court struck down the levy found
in Article 1 of Schedule 1 of the Madras Court Fees and Suits Valuation Act
1955 in its application to the High Court. With certificate, appeal was filed
in the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court had to consider whether the "fees
taken in court" in Entry 3 List II (Schedule VII) of the Constitution are
taxes or fees or whether they are sui generis in nature.
W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 467 of 531
830\. In the Zenith Lamp case (supra), the Supreme Court remanded the case to
the High Court and directed the High Court to give an opportunity to the writ
petitioners to file an affidavit or affidavits in reply to the affidavit dated
October 11, 1966.
831\. We may usefully extract the following portions of the judgment which set
the basis for the findings returned by the court as well as lay down the
applicable principle:-
> ―48. We agree with the Madras High Court in the present case that the fees
> taken in Courts are not a category by themselves and must contain 'the
> essential elements of the fees as laid down by this Court. We also agree
> with the following observation:
> "If the element of revenue for the general purposes of the State
> predominates, then the taxing element takes hold of the levy and it ceases
> to have any relation to the cost of administration of the laws to which it
> relates; it becomes a tax. Its validity has then to be determined with
> reference to its character as a tax and it has to be seen whether the
> Legislature has the power to impose the particular tax. When a levy is
> impugned as a colourable exercise of legislative power, the State being
> charged with raising a tax under the guise of levying a fee, Courts have to
> scrutinize the scheme of the levy carefully, and determine whether, in fact,
> there is correlation between the services and the levy, or whether the levy
> is excessive to such an extent as to be a pretence of a fee and not a fee in
> reality. If, in substance, the levy is not to raise revenues also for the
> general W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 468 of 531 purposes of the State, the mere
> absence of uniformity or the fact that it has no direct relation to the
> actual services rendered by the authority to each individual who obtains the
> benefit of the service, or that some of the contributories do not obtain the
> same degree of service as others may, will not change the essential
> character of the levy.‖ xxx xxx xxx
> 52\. It is true, as held by the High Court, that it is for the State to
> establish that what has been levied is court-fees properly so-called and if
> there is any enhancement the State must justify the enhancement.‖ (Emphasis
> by us)
832\. So far as the important findings of the court in Zenith Lamps (supra)
are concerned, the same can be summed up thus:-
> (i) The history of court fees in England as well as in India, shows that
> fees taken in court were not levied as taxes and ―the costs of
> administration was always one of the factors that was present.‖
> (ii) It seems plain that "fees taken in court" are not taxes, for, if it
> were so, the word ―taxes‖ would have been used or some other indication
> given. This conclusion is strengthened by two considerations. First, taxes
> that can be levied by the Union are mentioned in List I from Entry 82 and in
> List II taxes that can be imposed start from Entry 45. Secondly, the very
> use of the words ―not including fees taken in any court‖ in Entry 96 List I
> and Entry 66 List II shows that they would otherwise have fallen within
> these Entries. It follows that "fees taken in W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 469
> of 531 court" cannot be equated to ―taxes‖. There is no essential difference
> between fees taken in court and other fees. It is difficult to appreciate
> why the word ―fees‖ bears a different meaning in Entries 77 List I and Entry
> 96 List I or Entry 3 List II and Entry 66 List II.
> (iii) But even if the meaning is the same, what is ―fees‖ in a particular
> case depends on the subject-matter in relation to which the fees are
> imposed. The present case related to the administration of civil justice in
> a State.
> (iv) The fees must have relation to the administration of civil justice.
> While levying fees the appropriate legislature is competent to take into
> account all relevant factors, the value of the subject matter of the
> dispute, the various steps necessary in the prosecution of a suit or matter,
> the entire cost of the upkeep of courts and officers administering civil
> justice, the vexatious nature of certain types of litigation and other
> relevant matters. It is free to levy a small fee in some cases, a large fee
> in others, subject of course to the provisions of Art. 14. But one thing the
> legislature is not competent to do, and that is to make litigants contribute
> to the increase of general public revenue. In other words, it cannot tax
> litigation and make litigations pay, say for road building or education or
> other beneficial schemes that a State may have. There must be a co-
> relationship between the fees collected and the cost of administration of
> civil justice.
(v) The phrase 'fees taken in court' cannot be interpreted to mean that it
described fees which were actually being taken before the Constitution came
into force. If that was the meaning, no fees could be levied in the Supreme
Court because the Supreme Court did not exist before the Constitution came
into force and no fees were being taken therein. This would render part of the
Entry of List nugatory. (para 32) W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 470 of 531
(vi) The contention that fees taken in court are taxes because by virtue of
Art. 266 all fees, being revenues of the State will be credited to the
Consolidated Fund, could not be accepted. This Court has held that the fact
that an item of revenue is credited to the Consolidated Fund is not conclusive
to show that it is an item of tax. As Art. 266 requires that all revenues
received by the State have to go to the Consolidated Fund, not much stress can
be laid on this point. Fees and taxes are both revenue for the State.
(vii) The fees taken in Courts are not a category by themselves and must
contain the essential elements of the fees as laid down by this Court. It is
for the State to establish that what has been levied is court-fees properly
so-called and if there is any enhancement the State must justify the
enhancement. (para 48 and 52. Also quoted in para 3 of P.R. Sriramulu)
(viii) For determination of the question that the State was not making any
profit out of the administration of civil justice, various items both on the
receipts side and the expenditure side must be carefully analysed to see what
items or portion of items should be credited or debited to the administration
of civil justice. (para 51)
833\. The second case cited before us is 1989 Supp.( 1) SCC 696, P.M.
Ashwathanarayana Setty v. State of Karnataka. By this judgment, the Supreme
Court decided three groups of Special Leave Petitions/appeals/writ petitions
which concerned the policy and legality of the levy of court fees in the
States of Karnataka, Rajasthan and Maharashtra under the provisions of the
Karnataka Court Fees and Suits Valuation Act, 1958, the Rajasthan Court Fees
and Suits Valuation Act, 1961 and the Bombay Court Fees W.P.(C)No.4770/2012
page 471 of 531 Act, 1959 respectively.
834\. The petitioners from Rajasthan had challenged before the High Court of
Rajasthan the constitutional validity of the provisions of Section 20 read
with Article 1 Schedule 1 of the Rajasthan Act which prescribed and authorised
the levy of court-fees on a uniform ad valorem basis without the prescription
of any upper limit. The High Court upheld the constitutionality of the
impugned provision which was then challenged before the Supreme Court.
835\. The appeal and the Special Leave Petitions from Karnataka were directed
against the common order of the Karnataka High Court upholding the validity of
the corresponding provisions of the Karnataka Act which similarly imposed an
ad-valorem court fee without prescribing any upper limit. The writ petitions
challenged the respective provisions directly in Supreme Court.
836\. So far as the Bombay Act was concerned, the State of Maharashtra came up
in appeal against the judgment of the Division Bench of the Bombay High Court
affirming the order of the learned Single Judge striking down the provisions
of Section 29(1) read with Entry 10 of Schedule I of the Act in so far as they
purported to prescribe an ad- valorem court fee, without any upper limit, on
grants of probate, letters of administration etc., while in respect of all
other suits, appeal and proceedings an upper limit of court-fee of Rs.15,000/-
was prescribed. The W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 472 of 531 High Court held that
this prescription of ad-valorem court-fee without any upper limit on this
class of proceedings alone was constitutionally impermissible in that it
sought to single out this class of litigants to share a disproportionately
higher share of the burden of fees. While other litigants are not required to
pay beyond Rs.15,000/-.
837\. It was contended on behalf of the petitioners/appellants that:
> ―(i) the imposition of court fees at nearly 10% of the value of the subject
> matter in each of the courts through which the case sojourns before it
> reaches a finality would seriously detract from fairness and justness of the
> system;
> (ii) the exaction of ad-valorem fee uniformly at a certain percentage of the
> subject matter without an upper limit or without the tapering down after a
> certain stage onwards would negate the concept of a fee and partake of the
> character of a tax outside the boundaries of the State's power;
> (iii) the ad-valorem yardstick, which is relevant and appropriate to
> taxation, is wholly inappropriate because the principle or basis of
> distribution in the case of a fee should be the proportionate cost of
> services inter-se amongst the beneficiaries;
(iv) in the very nature of the judicial process, a stage is reached beyond
which there could be no proportionate or progressive increase in the services
rendered to a litigant either qualitatively or quantitatively; (para 66 of A.
Setty)
(v) in the process of adjudication of disputes before courts, judicial-time
and the machinery of justice are not utilised in direct proportion to the
value or the W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 473 of 531 amount of the subject matter
of the controversy; (para
66)
(vi) a recognition of the outermost limit of the possible services and a
prescription of a corresponding upper limit of court fee should be made, lest
the levy, in excess of that conceptual limit, becomes a tax; and
(vii) though India is a federal polity, the judicial system, however, is an
integrated one and that therefore different standards of court fee in
different States would be unconstitutional."
838\. The contentions of the State were noted in para 29. On the issues
raised, the Supreme Court held as follows:
> ―(i) as long as their power to raise the funds to meet the expenses of
> administration of civil justice was not disputed and as long as the funds
> raised show a correlation to such expenses, the States should have
> sufficient play at the joints to work-out the incidents of the levy in some
> reasonable and practical way;
(para 77 of A. Setty)
(ii) it would, quite obviously, be impracticable to measure-out the levy
directly in proportion to the actual judicial time consumed in each individual
case, hence the need to tailor some rough and ready workable basis which,
though may not be an ideal or the most perfect one, would at least be the
least hostile; (para 77 of A. Setty)
(iii) if an upper limit is fixed and the collection fell short of what the
Government intends and is entitled to collect, this would eventually result in
the enhancement of the general rates of court-fee for all categories; (para 77
of A. Setty) W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 474 of 531
(iv) if the value of the subject matter is a relevant factor in proportioning
the burden of the court fee, where the line should be drawn in applying the
principle is more a matter of legislative wisdom and preference than of the
strict judicial evaluation and adjudication; (para 77 of A. Setty) and (v)
courts cannot-compel the State to bring-forth any legislation to implement and
effectuate a Directive Principle.‖
839\. The court finally observed that though the impugned court fee scheme
could not be upheld, at the same time it ―cannot be struck-down‖.
―Having regard to the nature and complexity of this matter it is, perhaps,
difficult to say that the ad- valorem principle which may not be an ideal
basis for distribution of a fee can at the same time be said to be so
irrational as to incur any unconstitutional infirmity. The presumption of
constitutionality of laws requires that any doubt as to the constitutionality
of a law has to be resolved in favour of constitutionality. Though the scheme
cannot be upheld, at the same time, it cannot be struck down either. (para 88
of A. Setty) The State is in theory entitled to raise the totality of the
expenses by way of fee. Any interference with the present yardstick for
sharing the burden might in turn produce a yardstick less advantageous to
litigants at lower levels. Subject to certain observations and suggestions we
propose to make in regard to the rationalization of the levies in view of the
general importance of the matter to the administration of civil justice, we
think we should decline to strike W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 475 of 531 down the
law.‖ (para 89 of A. Setty)
840\. It is noteworthy that while considering the prescription of ad valorem
court fee on probate without an upper limit, the court made the following
observations:-
> ―Plaintiffs who go to civil courts claiming decrees are not required to pay
> court-fees in excess of Rs. 15,000. This is irrespective of the amounts
> claimed over and above Rs. 15 lacs. As against this, persons claiming
> probates have no such relief in the form of an upper limit to fee payable.‖
> (para 90 of A. Setty) This contention was accepted by the Learned Single
> Judge who has upheld the appeal. Indeed, where a proceeding for grant of
> probate and letters of administration becomes a contentious matter, it is
> registered as a suit and proceeded with accordingly. If in respect of all
> other suits of whatever nature and complexity an upper limit of Rs. 15,000
> on the court fees is fixed, there is no logical justification for singling
> out this proceeding for an ad- valorem impost without the benefit of some
> upper limit prescribed by the same statute respecting all other litigants.
> Neither before the High Court--nor before us here-was the impost sought to
> be supported or justified as something other than a mere fee, levy of which
> is otherwise within the State's power or as separate ‗fee' from another
> distinct source. It is purported to be collected and sought to be justified
> only as court fee and nothing else.‖ (para 91 of A.
Setty) ―The discrimination brought about by the statute, in our opinion, fails
to pass the constitutional muster as rightly pointed out by the High Court.
The High W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 476 of 531 Court, in our opinion rightly,
held:
> ―There is no answer to this contention, except that the legislature has not
> thought it fit to grant relief to the seekers of probates, whereas
> plaintiffs in civil suits were thought deserving of such an upper limit. The
> discrimination is a piece of class legislation prohibited by the guarantee
> of equal protection of laws embodied in Article 14 of the Constitution. On
> this ground also item 10 cannot be sustained‖ (para 92 of A. Setty) We
> approve this reasoning of the High Court and the decision of the High Court
> is sustained on this ground alone. In view of this any other ground urged
> against the constitutionality of the levy is unnecessary to be examined.‖
> (para 93 of A. Setty)
841\. In view of these observations, the court observed that though it had
abstained from striking down the legislation, yet immediate steps were
required to rationalise the levels. The following valuable suggestions were
made by the court.
―Though we have abstained from striking down the legislation, yet, it appears
to us that immediate steps are called for and are imperative to rationalize
the levies. In doing so the States should realize the desirability of levying
on the initial slab of the subject matter--say upto Rs. 15,000--a nominal
court-fees not exceeding 2 to 2½% so that small claims are not priced out of
Courts. ―Those who have less in life' it is said should have more in law‖.
(para 98 of A. Setty) W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 477 of 531 Claims in excess of
Rs. 15,000 might admit of an ad- valorem levy at rates which, preferably,
should not exceed 7½% subject further to an upper limit which, having regard
to all circumstances, could be envisaged at Rs.75,000. The upper limit even
prior to 1974 under the Bombay Act was Rs.15,000 and prior to 1961 under the
Rajasthan Act' at Rs.7,500. Having regard to steep inflation over the two
decades the upper limit could perhaps go upto Rs.75,000. After that limit is
reached, it is appropriate to impose on gradually increasing slabs of the
value of the subject matter, progressively decreasing rates, say from 7½% down
to ½% in graduated scales. The Governments concerned should bestow attention
on these matters and bring about a rationalization of the levies.‖ (para 98 of
A. Setty) In this judgment pronounced in 1989, the Supreme Court has therefore
recommended rationalisation of court fees and recommended progressively
decreasing rates.
842\. We may now come to the third judgment which is reported at (1996) 1 SCC
345, Secretary to the Govt. of Madras v. P.R. Sriramulu and another. After the
remand of the case in the Zenith Lamps case (supra) by the Supreme Court, the
matter was considered afresh by the Madras High Court.
843\. It is noteworthy that Writ petition No. 139/1987 filed by a Bank was
taken up also for consideration by the High Court of Madras. The said Bank had
filed a civil suit for recovery of Rs. 6,50,40,605.12 against M/s. Mettur
Textile Industries Ltd. and W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 478 of 531 others on
which it had to pay Court Fee amounting to Rs. 48,78,054.25 on ad-valorem
basis at the rate of 7 ½ per cent under Article 1 of Schedule 1 of the said
Madras Act No. XIV of 1955. Certain other money suits were also contemplated
by the Bank and having learnt that the Civil Appeal No. 736/1975 has been
filed in this Court against the Madras judgment, the Bank has also filed the
aforesaid writ petition under Article 32 of the Constitution of India
challenging the said levy of Court Fees on the flat rate of 7 ½ percent ad-
valorem, relying on the same grounds as are set out in the aforesaid appeal.‖
This writ petition was heard along with the respondent's appeal and decided by
this judgment.
844\. After considering the affidavits filed on behalf of the parties and the
material on record the High Court took the view in the impugned judgment that
there was no element of quid pro quo in the levy at the rate of 7½ per cent
flat rate without limit as there is no necessity to raise the court fees as
compensation for the cost of service rendered and to meet any increased cost
in the administration of civil justice and that there was no principle of
rationalization justifying demand at a flat rate. The High Court further held
that considering the circumstances the impost inherently falls more within the
concept of tax than fee and the levy on a particular section of litigants is a
grossly disproportionate part of the burden and the same is unreasonable and
arbitrary. The expenditure incurred by the Government as shown in some of the
items, in the opinion of the High Court could not be debited to the
W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 479 of 531 cost of administration of justice which
the litigant can be required to compensate and that the expenditure in the
administration of criminal justice is also not debitable to the cost of
administration of civil justice in courts. The High Court further held that
the record indicated that for the year 1955-56 the State was making a profit
varying between 9 to 21 lakhs. On the basis of these conclusions the High
Court struck down Article 1 in Schedule 1 to the Tamil Nadu Court Fees and
Suits Valuation Act and sub-rule 1 of Rule 1 of the High Court Rules, 1956
based on Article 1 of Schedule 1 to the Madras Act No. 14 of 1955 as invalid
against which the aforementioned appeal has been directed. (para 4)
845\. The judgment of the Madras High Court after the remand in Zenith Lamps
case (supra) was thus brought in a challenge before the Supreme Court in P.R.
Sriramulu (supra).
846\. The facts leading to the appeal in the Supreme Court as noted in the
judgment are that certain lands belonging to the respondents No. 1 and 2
herein situated in Tondiarpet were acquired at the instance of Public Works
Department in respect of which award No. 6 and 8 both of 1962 were made on
5.3.1962 and 10.3.1962. On a reference made under Section 18 of the Land
Requisition Act, at the instance of respondents No. 1 and 2, IVth Assistant
City Civil Judge, Madras enhanced the compensation. The respondents, being
dis-satisfied, preferred appeals to the High Court for further enhancement of
the compensation. The Court Fee payable according to Madras Court Fees and
Suits Valuation Act, W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 480 of 531 1955 on such appeals
was an ad-valorem Court Fee at the rate of 7 ½ per cent of the total claim
without any upper limit for such levy irrespective of the amount. The
respondents No. 1 and 2 challenged the validity of the aforesaid provisions of
levy of Court Fees and Suits Valuation Act of 1955 with reference to levy of
court fees ad- valorem working out at the rate of 7 ½ per cent without upper
limit by contending that the levy is not only exorbitant but wholly arbitrary,
unreasonable and unjustified bearing no relationship to the cost of
administration of justice and that in fact it was not a levy of Court Fee but
really a levy of tax though purporting to be a levy of fee. The respondents
took the stand that the Court Fees must be related to the cost of
administration of justice and cannot be used as a means of taxation for the
purpose of raising the revenue to the Government for its general
administration. Respondents further took the stand that the pattern of levy of
court fees prior to 1955 was only to levy an ad-valorem fee up to a certain
limit and thereafter the fee was on a reduced scale and that the scale of fees
in other States of the country are also on a different basis and not on the
basis of ad-valorem fee without limit. The said provisions therefore were
sought to be declared invalid.
847\. We may also extract some of the findings in P.M.
Ashwathanarayana Setty (supra) which are to the following effect:
> (i) All civilised Governments recognise the need for access to justice being
> free. Whether the whole of the expenses of administration of civil justice
> also-
-in addition to those of criminal justice--should be W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 481 of 531 free and met entirely by public revenue or whether the litigants should contribute and if so, to what extent, are matters of policy. (para 29 of A. Setty) 
(ii) A fee is a charge for the special service rendered to a class of citizens
by Government or Government agencies and is generally based on the expenses
incurred in rendering the services. (para 36 of A. Setty)
(iii) The power to raise funds through the fiscal tool of a `fee' is not to be
confused with a compulsion to do so. While `fee' meant to defray expenses of
services cannot be applied towards objects of general public utility as part
of general revenues, the converse is not valid. General public revenues can,
with justification, be utilised to meet, wholly or in a substantial part, the
expenses on the administration of civil justice. (para 96 of A. Setty)
(iv) The Directive Principles of State Policy though not strictly enforceable
in courts of law, are yet fundamental in the governance in the country. They
constitute fons-juris in a Welfare State. (para 37 of A. Setty)
(v) The inherent complexity of these fiscal adjustments, courts give a larger
discretion to the Legislature in the matter of its preferences of economic and
social policies and effectuate the chosen system in all possible and
reasonable ways. (para 79 of A. Setty) (Also quoted in para 12 of Sriramulu)
(vi) The lack of perfection in a legislative measure does not necessarily
imply its unconstitutionality. It is rightly said that no economic measure has
yet W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 482 of 531 been devised which is free from all
discriminatory impact and that is such a complex arena in which no perfect
alternatives exist, the court does well not to impose too rigorous a standard
of criticism under the equal protection clause when reviewing fiscal services.
(para 82 of A. Setty) (Also quoted in para 15 of Sriramulu)
(vii) It is for the governmental agencies imposing the fee to justify its
impost and its quantum as a return for some special services. (para 37 of A.
Setty)
(viii) Once a broad correlation between the totality of the expenses on the
services, conceived as a whole, on the one hand and the totality of the funds
raised by way of the fee, on the other, is established, it would be no part of
the legitimate exercise in the examination of the constitutionality of the
concept of the impost to embark its effect in individual cases. Such a
grievance would be one of disproportionate nature of the distribution of the
fees amongst those liable to contribute and not one touching the conceptual
nature of the fee. The test is one of the comprehensive level of the value of
the totality of the services, set off against the totality of the receipts. If
the character of the `fee' is thus established, the vagaries in its
distribution amongst the class, do not detract from the concept of a `fee' as
such, though a wholly arbitrary distribution of the burden might violate other
constitutional limitations. (para 67 & 72 of A. Setty) (Also quoted in para 12
of Sriramulu)
(ix) The State is in theory entitled to raise the totality of the expenses by
way of fee. Any interference with the present yardstick for sharing the burden
might in turn produce a yardstick less advantageous to litigants
W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 483 of 531 at lower levels. (para 89 of A. Setty)
(x) Having regard to the nature and complexity of this matter it is, perhaps,
difficult to say that the ad- valorem principle which may not be an ideal
basis for distribution of a fee can at the same time be said to be so
irrational as to incur any unconstitutional infirmity. The presumption of
constitutionality of laws requires that any doubt as to the constitutionality
of a law has to be resolved in favour of constitutionality. Though the scheme
cannot be upheld, at the same time, it cannot be struck down either. (para 88
of A. Setty) (Also quoted in para 20 of Sriramulu)
(xi) If in respect of all other suits of whatever nature and complexity an
upper limit of Rs.15,000 on the court fee is fixed, there is no logical
justification for singling out probate and letters of administration for an
ad-valorem impost without the benefit of some upper limit prescribed by the
same statute respecting all other litigants. (para 90 & 91 of A. Setty))
(xii) The prescription of such high rates of court- fees even in small claims
as also without an upper limit in larger claims is perilously close to
arbitrariness, an inconstitutionality. (para 95 of A. Setty)
(xiii) The view that ad-valorem levy of Court Fee in an individual case far
exceeds the maximum value, in terms of money, qua that contributor and hence
the concept of correlation fails and renders the levy invalid and illegal
cannot be acceded for the simple reason that the correlation is not in the
context of individual contributors, the test being its ascertainment on a
comprehensive basis keeping in view the value of the totality of the service,
qua, the totality of receipts. (para 14) [P.R. Sriramulu W.P.(C)No.4770/2012
page 484 of 531 (supra)]
(xiv) It is trite that for purposes of testing a law enacted by one State in
exercise of its own independent legislative powers for its alleged violation
of Article 14 it cannot be contrasted with laws enacted by other States. (para
87 of A. Setty)
(xv) Though the Court abstained from striking down the legislation, yet, it
appears to the Court that immediate steps are called for and are imperative to
rationalize the levies.‖ (para 98 of A. Setty) Other important portions of
these judgments have been noticed in the previous part of the present
consideration. The authoritative and binding principles laid down by the
Supreme Court bind this consideration and have guided the present
adjudication.
(XVIII) Whether the above judgments on the challenges to court fees would
preclude the present examination by this court
848\. It has been contended on behalf of the respondents that the Supreme
Court has upheld the enhancement of court fee by the State Legislatures in
Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Rajasthan and Maharashtra in the aforesaid judgments.
Therefore it is not open to the petitioners to maintain their challenge to the
Court Fees (Delhi Amendment) Act, 2012. The respondents thus again urge an
absolute prohibition to the examination of the challenge in the instant writ
petitions.
W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 485 of 531
849\. The legislations examined by the Supreme Court had been enacted in the
prevalent facts and circumstances in the States of Tamil Nadu, Kerala,
Rajasthan and Maharashtra. It is the respondent's contention before us that
the Delhi Government is spending more than the other States on administration
of justice.
850\. There is another dimension to this objection. Let us assume for the
purposes of this consideration that a statutory enhancement in one of the four
States (i.e. Tamil Nadu/Kerala/Rajasthan/ Maharashtra) was effected today and
its constitutionality was challenged before the High Court, would it be
correct to hold that such challenge had to be rejected because of the judicial
precedents upholding the previous amendment? The position in law is that the
challenge is maintainable and the issues raised have to be answered by
application of the legal principles to the prevalent fact situation. On such
examination, it is legally permissible to the court to take a different view
from the previous one, with regard to the same legislation.
851\. On this issue in (2008) 5 SCC 287, Satyawati Sharma v. Union of India,
the Supreme court held as follows:-
> ―32. It is trite to say that legislation which may be quite reasonable and
> rational at the time of its enactment may with the lapse of time and/or due
> to change of circumstances become arbitrary, unreasonable and violative of
> the doctrine of equality and even if the validity of such legislation may
> have been upheld at a given point of time, the Court may, in subsequent
> litigation, strike down the same if it is W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 486 of
> 531 found that the rationale of classification has become non-existent. In
> State of M.P. v. Bhopal Sugar Industries Ltd. [AIR 1964 SC 1179] this Court
> while dealing with a question whether geographical classification due to
> historical reasons could be sustained for all times observed: (AIR p. 1182,
> para
> 6) ―6. ... Differential treatment arising out of the application of the laws
> so continued in different regions of the same reorganised State, did not,
> therefore immediately attract the clause of the Constitution prohibiting
> discrimination. But by the passage of time, considerations of necessity and
> expediency would be obliterated, and the grounds which justified
> classification of geographical regions for historical reasons may cease to
> be valid. A purely temporary provision which because of compelling forces
> justified differential treatment when the Reorganisation Act was enacted
> cannot obviously be permitted to assume permanency, so as to perpetuate that
> treatment without a rational basis to support it after the initial
> expediency and necessity have disappeared.‖ It is therefore trite that even
> legislation or regulation if once held valid, can also be successfully
> challenged if there is a significant change in circumstances.
852\. In yet another pronouncement of Supreme Court reported at 1984 (1) SCC
222, Motor General Traders v. State of A.P., the W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 487
of 531 court was concerned with a challenge to the validity of the provisions
of Section 32(b) of the Andhra Pradesh Buildings (Lease, Rent and Eviction)
Control Act, 1960 which exempted all buildings constructed on or after a
particular date, from the operation of the Act. It was observed by the court
that a long period had elapsed after the passing of the Act which by itself
served as a crucial factor in deciding the question whether the impugned law
has become discriminatory or not because the ground on which the
classification of buildings into the two categories is made is not a
historical or geographical one but is an economic one. Exemption was granted
by way of an incentive to encourage building activity and in the circumstances
such exemption cannot be allowed to last forever. The court also found that
there was no justification for continuance of the benefit to a class of
persons without any rational basis whatsoever; that the evil effects flowing
from the impugned exemption have caused more harm to the society than one
could anticipate. In this background, the court observed as follows:-
> ―24. ... What was justifiable during a short period has turned out to be a
> case of hostile discrimination by lapse of nearly a quarter of century. The
> second answer to the above contention is that mere lapse of time does not
> lend constitutionality to a provision which is otherwise bad. ―Time does not
> run in favour of legislation. If it is ultra vires, it cannot gain legal
> strength from long failure on the part of lawyers to perceive and set up its
> invalidity. Albeit, lateness in an attack upon the constitutionality of a
> statute is but a reason for exercising special caution in examining
> W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 488 of 531 the arguments by which the attack is
> supported. [See W.A. Wynes: Legislative, Executive and Judicial Powers in
> Australia, Fifth Edition, p 33] We are constrained to pronounce upon the
> validity of the impugned provision at this late stage because the garb of
> constitutionality which it may have possessed earlier has become worn out
> and its unconstitutionality is now brought to a successful challenge.‖
853\. In 1980 (1) SCR 368, H.H. Shri Swamiji Shri Admar Mutt Etc. v. The
Commissioner, Hindu Religious & Charitable Endowments Department, the court
observed that:
> ―31. ... An indefinite extension and application of unequal laws for all
> time to come will militate against their true character as temporary
> measures taken in order to serve a temporary purpose. Thereby the very
> foundation of their constitutionality shall have been destroyed. ...
> xxx
> 32\. ...What may be unobjectionable as a transitional or temporary measure
> at an initial stage can still become discriminatory and hence violative of
> Article 14 of the Constitution if it is persisted in over a long period
> without any justification. ...‖
854\. It is therefore well settled that even though the Supreme Court may have
rejected challenges to court fee and sustained the prescriptions at particular
points of time, however even the same W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 489 of 531
legislation, if challenged at a later point of time, would require to be
independently assessed, having regard to the factual matrix in which it exists
at the time of the challenge. It is abundantly clear therefore, that the
challenge to a subsequent enactment (or an amendment to the legislation) has
to be considered.
855\. So far as court fees are concerned, we have noted above the impact of
the levy. Court fee is per se an entry point barrier to accessing justice.
Jurisprudence from India and all over the world as well as expert statements
including those of the Law Commission of India have unequivocally declared
that court fee provides an absolute impediment to a litigant approaching the
court.
856\. The Supreme Court in the celebrated pronouncement reported at AIR 1973
SC 1461 Kesavananda Bharti v. State of Kerala has recognized that judicial
review was a part of the basic structure of the Constitution. This position
has been reaffirmed by a seven Judges Bench of the Supreme Court in (1997) 3
SCC 261, L. Chandra Kumar v. Union of India.
857\. In (1980) 3 SCC 625 (at page 677) Minerva Mills Limited Vs. Union of
India & Ors., the Supreme Court observed thus:-
> ―87. It is a fundamental principle of our constitutional scheme, and I have
> pointed this out in the preceding paragraph, that every organ of the State,
> every authority under the Constitution, derives its power from the
> Constitution and has to act within the W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 490 of 531
> limits of such power. But then the question arises as to which authority
> must decide what are the limits on the power conferred upon each organ or
> instrumentality of the State and whether such limits are transgressed or
> exceeded...But what I wish to emphasise is that judicial review is a vital
> principle of our Constitution and it cannot be abrogated without affecting
> the basic structure of the Constitution...‖
858\. In (2007) 6 SCC 120, Arunima Baruah v. Union of India, it was held that:
> ―10. On the one hand, judicial review is a basic feature of the
> Constitution, on the other, it provides for a discretionary remedy. Access
> to justice is a human right. (See Dwarka Prasad Agarwal v. B.D. Agarwal
> [(2003) 6 SCC 230] and Bhagubhai Dhanabhai Khalasi v. State of Gujarat
> [(2007) 4 SCC 241 : (2007) 2 SCC (Cri) 260 : (2007) 5 Scale 357]) A person
> who has a grievance against a State, a forum must be provided for redressal
> thereof. (See Hatton v. United Kingdom [15 BHRC 259] . For reference see
> also Zee Telefilms Ltd. v. Union of India [(2005) 4 SCC 649])
> 11\. The court's jurisdiction to determine the lis between the parties,
> therefore, may be viewed from the human rights concept of access to justice.
> The same, however, would not mean that the court will have no jurisdiction
> to deny equitable relief when the complainant does not approach the court
> with a pair of clean hands; but to what extent such relief should be denied
> is the question.‖
859\. The judgment reported at (2007) 9 SCC 257, Sardar Associates v. Punjab
and Sind Bank reiterates the above position.
W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 491 of 531
860\. In R. v. Secretary of State for the Home Department ExParte Leech
reported at (1994) QB 198 Steyn LJ said that it is a principle of our law that
every citizen has an unimpeded access to a court.
861\. Lord Willbord in (1983) 1 AC 1, Raymond v. Honey described the right of
access as a ―basic right‖.
862\. As noticed above, the Supreme Court has laid down that the
constitutionality of the amendment to court fee legislation can be challenged
on the grounds of want of legislative competence as well as violation of
Article 14 of the Constitution. The Supreme Court has also suggested that a no
‗court fee' regime would be ideal and in para 95 of Ashwathanarayana Setty
(supra) directed the legislatures to explore this possibility. Court fee if is
to be levied, must take into its consideration the several factors noted
above. In Zenith Lamps (supra), the Supreme Court has categorically stated the
character of the levy (as to whether it is in the nature of a ‗fee' or a ‗tax'
has to be examined on a case to case basis. It is further held that the State
would have to justify that the levy is ―court fees properly so called‖. In one
voice, there is a call for reduction in court fee, and, even for no court fee.
Enhancement of court fee is opposed.
863\. Developments in the society also would impact constitutional validity of
legislations. With passage of time, interpretation of statutes is known to
change. Events subsequent to W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 492 of 531 the enactment
of the legislation may impact its constitutionality. It has been noticed that
social psyche, societal expectations and the social order result in
transformation of the contours of constitutional rights. These are also
relevant considerations while examining a challenge to the constitutional
validity of a statute.
864\. In this regard in the pronouncement reported at (2008) 3 SCC 1, Anuj
Garg v. Hotel Association of India & Ors., the Court has held as under:
> ―7. The Act is a pre-constitutional legislation. Although it is saved in
> terms of Article 372 of the Constitution, challenge to its validity on the
> touchstone of Articles 14, 15 and 19 of the Constitution of India, is
> permissible in law. While embarking on the questions raised, it may be
> pertinent to know that a statute although could have been held to be a valid
> piece of legislation keeping in view the societal condition of those times,
> but with the changes occurring therein both in the domestic as also in
> international arena, such a law can also be declared invalid.
8\. In John Vallamattom v. Union of India [(2003) 6 SCC 611] this Court, while
referring to an amendment made in UK in relation to a provision which was in
pari materia with Section 118 of the Indian Succession Act, observed: (SCC p.
624, para
28) ―28. ... The constitutionality of a provision, it is trite, will have to
be judged keeping in view the interpretative changes of the statute affected
by passage of time.‖ W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 493 of 531 Referring to the
changing legal scenario and having regard to the Declaration on the Right to
Development adopted by the World Conference on Human Rights as also Article 18
of the United Nations Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, 1966, it was
held: (John Vallamattom case [(2003) 6 SCC 611] , SCC p. 625, para 33) ―33. It
is trite that having regard to Article 13(1) of the Constitution, the
constitutionality of the impugned legislation is required to be considered on
the basis of laws existing on 26- 1-1950, but while doing so the court is not
precluded from taking into consideration the subsequent events which have
taken place thereafter. It is further trite that the law although may be
constitutional when enacted but with passage of time the same may be held to
be unconstitutional in view of the changed situation.‖
9\. Changed social psyche and expectations are important factors to be
considered in the upkeep of law. Decision on relevance will be more often a
function of time we are operating in. Primacy to such transformation in
constitutional rights analysis would not be out of place...‖ (Emphasis
supplied)
865\. In para 13 of the pronouncement in Charan Lal Sahu v. Union of India,
(1990) 1 SCC 613, the Supreme Court stated that in judging the constitutional
validity of the Act, the subsequent events as to how the Act has worked itself
out would require to be examined.
W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 494 of 531
866\. The judgments of the Supreme Court upholding the enhancement in court
fee rendered in P.M. Ashwathanarayanaa Setty v. State of Karnataka (supra) and
Secy. to Govt. of India v. P.R. Sriramulu (supra) came at the time when the
Indian economy was struggling with operationalising the constitutional values
in a welfare state, when the economy was not showing the growth rate as at
present.
867\. Several factors impact society. Economic, technology and infrastructure
developments, social welfare measures undertaken by the State etc. may result
in changes in the income standards of the people or lack of such measures or
unequal destruction may adversely impact communities. Therefore, some of the
relevant factors while evaluating the constitutionality of an enhancement in
the court fees structure would necessarily include, amongst other factors, (a)
whether there is a change in the profile of the persons who are
accessing/entering the court system seeking protection of rights, enforcement
of law or complaining against violations. Changes in the nature of the filings
is another material circumstance. Without conducting an empirical study of
these factors, no prescription about the optimum court fees scales or levels
can or ought to be made.
(b) The impact on the litigation of the proposed increase had to be
objectively considered. This would obviously be based on appropriate studies,
assimilation of statistics and data from the filings in the various courts.
    W.P.(C)No.4770/2012                                    page 495 of 531
     (c)    Local conditions also have a bearing on filings.
868\. It is noteworthy that the legislations which were the subject matter of
challenges in the three judgments of the Supreme Court were enactments by
State legislatures. The judgment in the Zenith Lamps case was pronounced in
1973; P.M.A. Setty (supra) came in 1989; while the judgment in P.R. Sriramulu
(supra) has been reported in 1996. The factual scenario especially in the
context of the socio-economic status of people living in these States vis-à-
vis the inhabitants of Delhi is different. The vibrant status of the Indian
economy in 2011-12 is also unparalleled. Additionally, the authoritative
pronouncements of the Supreme Court on the vital issues of State
responsibility to provide for the judiciary; the importance of ensuring
judicial independence; the recommendations of the Law Commission of India have
all come after the three pronouncements in question the last being in 1996.
869\. The circumstances and conditions in Tamil Nadu; Karnataka; Rajasthan and
Maharashtra, four large states, vary from the prevalent conditions in Delhi -
a metropolis which is a Union Territory. The demographic profile of the
persons residing in Delhi; the range of political and economic activity in the
city; the nature of issues taken to courts for trial is sharply different from
other regions. Delhi as the National capital, is the seat of the Union
Government which adds to the diversity in the litigation profile of Delhi
Courts. It also enjoys several benefits including special dispensations from
the Central Government.
W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 496 of 531
870\. We find that in these precedents, the Supreme Court has reiterated that
a challenge to legislation on grounds of violation of Article 14 and the
unreasonableness of the classification in the legislation is maintainable. The
Supreme Court has also reiterated the importance of judicial review as an
essential part of the basic structure of the Constitution. It has reinforced
the permissibility of an examination in judicial review of every legislative
action on the grounds of want of legislative competence.
871\. The objection of the respondents that the challenge in these writ
petitions is precluded by the three judicial precedents is contrary to settled
principles of law and untenable. The principles laid down by the court have to
be applied to the facts of the case. In fact, we have applied the principles
laid down by the Supreme Court in the three precedents, to arrive at the view
we have taken so far as examination of the challenge by the petitioner to the
Court Fees (Delhi Amendment) Act, 2012 is concerned.
872\. So far as Delhi is concerned, it is claimed that Delhi has the highest
per capita income in the country. The per capita income of the national
Capital for 2012-13 has recorded a rise of over Rs 27,000 from previous year.
The per capital income for 2011-12 was Rs 1.74 lakh, that has risen to Rs 2.1
lakh - the highest in the country. [Ref: The Pioneer, dated 09.05.2013]. So
far as the demographic profile is concerned, the last available statistics are
for the year 2004-05. At the same time, the other extreme is provided by the
Delhi Economic Survey 2004-2005 which states W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 497 of
531 that 6% of the people living in Delhi are very poor and another 28% poor.
If clubbed together, 34% would be considered as poor. On the other hand,
nearly 6% people in Delhi would be considered as very rich and another 12% as
rich. As such, 18% people in Delhi are those who would be considered as
belonging to the rich class. There is thus a large middle class, which
constitutes 48% of the population. Among the middle class, 28% belong to the
upper middle class, while 20% fall in the lower middle class.
873\. While the respondents are able to claim progress in the gross domestic
product, however the benefits therefrom are unevenly distributed and the gap
between the poor and the middle class, have sharply increased. It is so in
Delhi as well. The submissions on the adverse judge to population ratio apply
to Delhi as well.
874\. Unfortunately, we do not have the benefit of any empirical data or
studies which were required to be undertaken in order to assess the percentage
levels of the poor, the lower income group, higher income group and those
placed higher in the hierarchy or those economically well-off. Such data was
necessary to establish that broad correlation between the object of the
impugned litigation and the constitutional values.
875\. The expenditure incurred on the justice dispensation system, as noticed
above, is claimed by the respondents to be based on capacity enhancement of
the justice dispensation system. However, from the above narration, it is
clearly evident that the W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 498 of 531 respondents have
undertaken no judicial planning, they do not appear to follow any judicial
policy. We have extracted above the principles laid down by the Supreme Court
in the judgments in Secretary, Government of Madras v. Zenith Lamp and
Electrical (supra), P.M. Ashwathanarayana Setty v. State of Karnataka (supra)
and Secretary to Government of Madras v. P.R. Sriramulu (supra) and applied
them to the fact situation placed before us. For all these reasons, we find no
interdiction of the present consideration by judicial precedents.
(XIX) Vexatious Litigation
876\. Another argument advanced in support of the enhanced court fee is that
the same is necessary to keep out vexatious litigation from courts. This is
pressed also to emphasize the need to keep out vexatious litigation given the
overburdening of the courts. We may now examine the system of demanding court
fees from parties who move the courts and its impact on vexatious litigation.
Vexatious litigation in the face of an overwhelming number of cases before the
courts is not a new argument and has been contended to support the existence
of court fees for over 150 years.
877\. The preamble to the Bengal Regulation Act of 1795 stated that the
purpose of prescribing higher court fee therein was to drive away ―vexatious
litigation‖. Lord Macaulay who was heading the first Law Commission debunked
this argument. Vexatious and frivolous litigation, Lord Macaulay mentioned,
was there long W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 499 of 531 before the system of
levying ‗court fee' came into vogue and it continued after the levy also. He
settled down on the position that along with vexatious litigation, genuine and
bona fide litigation would be shut out as well. In his minutes dated 25 th
June, 1835 he described the preamble as: ―the most eminently absurd preamble,
that was ever drawn.‖
878\. Lord Macaulay made the following famous declarations:-
> ―It is undoubtedly a great evil that frivolous and vexatious actions should
> be instituted. But it is an evil for which the Government has only itself
> and its agents to blame, and for which it has the power of providing a most
> sufficient remedy‖.
> He further stated:
―Why did dishonest plaintiffs apply to the courts before the institution fee
was imposed? Evidently because they thought that they had a chance of success.
Does the institution of fee diminish that chance? Not in the smallest degree.
It neither makes pleadings clearer, nor the law plain....‖ These views of Lord
Macaulay were accepted in 14 th Report of the Law Commission (Chapter 22 para
6) where it was observed that the argument that it was necessary to impose
higher court fee to prevent frivolous litigation has no substance. The same
views were reiterated in the 128th Report of the Law Commission on cost of
litigation.
879\. The 189th Report of the Law Commission in its tenth W.P.(C)No.4770/2012
page 500 of 531 recommendation in Chapter IX has endorsed that a Central Act
be enacted on the lines of the Vexatious Litigation (Prevention) Act, 1949
(Madras Act VIII of 1949) to curb vexatious or frivolous litigation. In the
judgment reported at AIR 1965 SC 1827, Prabhakar Rao H. Mawle v. State of
A.P., applicability and constitutional validity of the same Act was examined
and upheld.
880\. Significantly, the US Supreme Court in Boddie v. Connecticut, 401 US 371
(1971) also rejected the argument that charging such fees served as an
effective deterrent to unmeritorious litigation and was necessary for the
financial maintenance of the justice system:
> ―The arguments for this kind of fee and cost requirement are that the
> State's interest in the prevention of frivolous litigation is substantial,
> its use of court fees and process costs to allocate scarce resources is
> rational and its balance between the defendant's right to notice and the
> plaintiff's right to access is reasonable. In our opinion, none of these
> considerations is sufficient to override the interest of these plaintiff-
> appellants in having access to the only avenue open for dissolving their
> allegedly untenable marriages. Not only is there no necessary connection
> between a litigant's assets and the seriousness of his motives in bringing
> suit, but it is here beyond present dispute that appellants bring these
> actions in good faith. Moreover, other alternatives exist to fees and cost
> requirements as a means for conserving the time of courts and protecting
> parties from frivolous litigation, such as penalties for false pleadings or
> affidavits, and actions for malicious prosecution or abuse of process, to
> mention only a few.‖ W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 501 of 531
881\. We find that in (1996) 1 SCC 345, Secretary to Government of Madras v.
P.R. Sriramulu also Supreme court observed as follows:-
> ―In the beginning the imposition of the (court) fee was nominal but in the
> course of time, it was enhanced gradually under the impression that it would
> prevent the institution of frivolous and groundless litigation and as an
> effective deterrent to the abuse of process of the Court without causing any
> impediment in the institution of just claims. However significant this view
> may be that the levy of fees would have a tendency to put a restraint on
> frivolous litigation, that view, at any rate, had the merit of seeking to
> achieve a purpose which was believed to have some relevance to the
> administration of justice. Since about past two decades, the levy of court
> fee on higher scales would seem to find its justification, nor in any
> purpose related to the sound administration of justice but in the need of
> the State Government for revenue as a means for recompense.‖
882\. The Law Commission has drawn a distinction between vexatious litigation
and frivolous litigation. Vexatious litigation has been interpreted as
―habitually or persistently filing cases on the issues which have already been
decided once or more than once or against the same parties or their successors
in interest or against different parties. But so far as ‗frivolous' litigation
is concerned, a litigation may be frivolous,- without the need for persistent
filing of similar case,- even if it has no merits whatsoever and is intended
to harass the defendant or is an abuse of the process of the Court.
W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 502 of 531 Further, there are some existing
provisions in the Code of Civil Procedure like Order 6 Rule 16, Order 7 Rule
1, sec 35A etc. which deal with ‗frivolous' litigation.‖ (Ref: 189th Report of
Law Commission).
883\. It is noteworthy that law to prohibit and penalize vexatious litigation
was enacted in the former State of Madras as the Madras Vexatious Litigation
(Prevention) Act, 1949. Post independence, in the State of Maharashtra, the
Maharashtra Vexatious Litigation (Prevention) Act, 1971 was enacted. Nothing
prevents the Delhi Legislative Assembly from examining this efficacious
alternative, within a constitutionally acceptable mandate, to discourage
vexatious litigation.
884\. In this background, the purpose of keeping out the vexatious litigation
by enhancing court fee is not justified and cannot be permitted.
(XX) Insufficient pleadings and no material in support
885\. Mr. Chandhiok, learned Senior Counsel for the petitioner has contended
that a point of law raised by a party is required to be substantiated by facts
which are pleaded and establish such facts. This is more so in writ
jurisdiction. In case this is not done, such point at its instance, is not
entertainable by the writ court. In support of this contention reliance is
placed on the pronouncement of the Supreme Court reported at AIR 1988 SC 2181,
Bharat Singh & Ors. v. State of Haryana & Ors. Reliance is also placed
W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 503 of 531 upon 2006 (91) DRJ 324 (para 31), Ex. Sep.
Roop Singh v. Union of India etc. as well.
886\. In Bharat Singh (supra), the Supreme Court had not only laid down the
principles governing adjudication in a writ petition but also pointed out the
difference between writ petitions and suits as follows:-
> ―13. As has been already noticed, although the point as to profiteering by
> the State was pleaded in the writ petitions before the High Court as an
> abstract point of law, there was no reference to any material in support
> thereof nor was the point argued at the hearing of the writ petitions.
> Before us also, no particulars and no facts have been given in the special
> leave petitions or in the writ petitions or in any affidavit, but the point
> has been sought to be substantiated at the time of hearing by referring to
> certain facts stated in the said application by HSIDC. In our opinion, when
> a point which is ostensibly a point of law is required to be substantiated
> by facts, the party raising the point, if he is the writ petitioner, must
> plead and prove such facts by evidence which must appear from the writ
> petition and if he is the respondent, from the counter-affidavit. If the
> facts are not pleaded or the evidence in support of such facts is not
> annexed to the writ petition or to the counter-affidavit, as the case may
> be, the court will not entertain the point. In this context, it will not be
> out of place to point out that in this regard there is a distinction between
> a pleading under the Code of Civil Procedure and a writ petition or a
> counter-affidavit. While in a pleading, that is, a plaint or a written
> statement, the facts and not evidence are required to be pleaded, in a writ
> petition or in the counter-affidavit not only the facts but also the
> evidence in proof of such facts have to be pleaded W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page
> 504 of 531 and annexed to it. So, the point that has been raised before us
> by the appellants is not entertainable. But, in spite of that, we have
> entertained it to show that it is devoid of any merit.‖ (Emphasis by us)
887\. Before us the respondents have contended that the decision to effectuate
the legislative amendment rested on sufficient material and the legislation
was finalized after due consideration and application of mind. The same stand
is asserted by the respondents with regard to the Presidential consideration
and assent. The respondents have vigorously objected to scrutiny by this court
of their record.
888\. We have noticed above the insufficient pleadings in the counter
affidavit. Relevant dates are not mentioned. The position remains the same in
the additional affidavit. No documents are enclosed. Before the Supreme Court
some tabulations were put together and filed with the special leave petition.
These were not filed before this Court with the counter affidavit. It is not
disclosed as to whether this material was even in existence at the time of
consideration by the authorities or the legislative assembly, let alone placed
before it. It was certainly not placed before the President when the
consideration and assent was sought or recorded.
889\. Yet another stand has been put forth in the oral submissions by Mr.
Salve, learned Senior Counsel for the respondents. It has W.P.(C)No.4770/2012
page 505 of 531 been urged that the President had accorded general assent to
the statutory amendment. There is neither a whisper of a pleading on the part
of the respondents to this effect nor any document to support this plea. The
petitioners have also objected to the verification in the counter affidavit of
respondent no.1 which is ―to the best of my (deponent's) knowledge.‖ It is
contended such an affidavit has no sanctity in law and deserves to be rejected
for this reason alone.
890\. In para 31 of 2006 (91) DRJ 324, Ex. Sep. Roop Singh v. UOI, this Court
has observed that ―a vague averment in the counter affidavit would be of no
consequence.‖
891\. It is well settled that the burden of establishing the existence of the
pre-conditions and compliance with the legislative procedure rested squarely
on the respondents. Therefore, such contentions of the respondents in the
present case, whether it be the bald submissions in the counter affidavit
unsupported by relevant material or be it the contentions orally made, again
unsupported by pleadings or documentation, would thus require to be rejected
on this short ground alone. However, given the nature and importance of the
challenge under examination, our judicial conscience has compelled us to
consider the submissions made before us.
(XXI) Whether the impugned legislation adversely impacts the rule making power
as well as the jurisdiction of this court
892\. It is contended by the petitioners that the impugned W.P.(C)No.4770/2012
page 506 of 531 Amendment Act impedes the jurisdiction of the High Court of
Delhi and the administration of justice and, therefore, is violative of the
constitutional scheme. There are two parts to this contention, first, that the
unprecedented increase in court fee is a deterrent in invoking the original
jurisdiction of the High Court of Delhi and second, the impugned amendment Act
infringes the jurisdiction of the High Court in framing rules under the scheme
of the Indian Arbitration Act, 1940 and the Arbitration and Conciliation Act,
1996\.
893\. Let us now examine this contention. It is relevant to mention that the
Parliament alone is empowered to constitute a High Court under Article 241 of
the Constitution of India. The Delhi High Court Act, 1966 was enacted by an
Act of the Parliament. By virtue of the provisions of this statute, the Delhi
High Court has original jurisdiction.
894\. The Court Fee Act, 1870 was amended in 1967 by an Act of the Parliament,
to ensure that it was in conformity with the Delhi High Court Act, 1966. We
have noted above that the sharp increase in the court fee payable on suits
would be a deterrent to litigants to invoke the original jurisdiction of the
High Court of Delhi and would thus impact the jurisdiction of this court.
895\. Learned Senior Counsel for the petitioners has also referred to the
rule- making power of the High Courts under Section 122 of the Code of Civil
Procedure (C.P.C.) whereby the High Courts are W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 507 of
531 empowered, from time to time, after previous publication, to make rules,
to regulate their own procedure and the procedure of the civil courts subject
to the superintendence of the High Court. Section 122 also enables the High
Court to annul, alter or add to all or any of the rules in the schedule.
896\. In AIR 1922 Mad 421 (422), H. Mahomed Ishaq Sahib v. Mahomed Moideen &
Anr. as well as (1935) 22 AIR Rang 460, Maung Ba Thaw & Ors. v. M.S.V.M.V.
Chettyar, it has been held that provisions like Section 122 of the Code of
Civil Procedure which empower the courts to make rules to regulate procedure,
enable them to levy court fees, as the power to regulate procedure includes
the power to impose fees in courts.
897\. Section 129 of the Code of Civil Procedure prescribes the power of the
High Courts to make rules as to their own civil procedure. This section
contains a non-obstante clause and empowers the High Courts to make such rules
which are not inconsistent with the Letters Patent or other law establishing
it, to regulate its own procedure in the exercise of its original civil
jurisdiction as it shall deem fit. This section stipulates that nothing
contained in the Code of Civil Procedure shall affect the validity of such
rules in force at the commencement of this Code.
898\. It has been held that rules regulating procedure of the High Court on
its original side need not be consistent with the provisions of the Code of
Civil Procedure, 1908 (Ref: AIR 2005 SC 514, W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 508 of
531 Iridium India Telecom Limited v. Motorola Inc.). Such is the extent of the
rule making power of the High Court.
899\. It is urged that where the legislature intended to permit the rule
making power beyond the statutory provision, it has specifically stated so.
There can be no dispute with this proposition. There is thus substance in the
petitioner's submission that the impugned legislation impacts the rule making
power and jurisdiction of this court.
Power to frame rules governing arbitration
900\. The Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 contained Section 89 and Section 104
(a) to (f) (which relate to arbitration). These provisions in the Code of
Civil Procedure were deleted upon the enactment of the Arbitration Act of
1940. Clause 18 of Schedule (2) of the Court Fees Act of 1870 was also
deleted.
901\. Ms. Neelam Rathore, learned counsel has drawn our attention to Section
44 of the Arbitration Act of 1940 which reads as follows:-
> ―44. Power to High Court to make rules. The High Court may make rules
> consistent with this Act as to-
> (a) the filing of awards and all proceedings consequent thereon or
> incidental thereto ;
> (b) the filing and hearing of special cases and all proceedings consequent
> thereon or incidental thereto ;
(c) the staying of any suit or proceeding in W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 509 of
531 contravention of an arbitration agreement ;
(d) the forms to be used for the purposes of this Act;
(e) generally, all proceedings in Court under this Act.‖
902\. Such rules were framed and Rule 8 thereunder prescribed the fee payable.
The Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 vests the rule making power with
the High Court under Section 82 which includes the power to prescribe court
fee with respect to arbitration proceedings. The saving clause in Section
85(2)(b) further states that the rules framed under the 1940 Act are deemed to
be applicable to proceedings under the 1996 Act as well. Thus it is clearly
established that that the power to prescribe court fees in respect of
proceedings under the 1996 Act exclusively rests with the High Court of Delhi.
903\. Section 85(2)(b) of the Arbitration Act, 1996 contains the saving clause
by virtue whereof the rules framed under the Arbitration Act, 1940 are deemed
to be applicable to proceedings under the Arbitration Act, 1996.
904\. Our attention has been drawn to the rules made by the Punjab and Haryana
High Court under Section 44 of the Arbitration Act, 1940 which were published
in its notification No.45-R/X-W-5, dated 9th March, 1945. Rule 8 thereunder
prescribed the court fee and process fee which was payable. The
W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 510 of 531 relevant extract thereof which prescribed
the court fee reads as follows:-
> ―8. Court-fees and process fees. - (a) The court fees and process-fees
> chargeable for all petitions shall be in accordance with the Court Fees Act
> and the rules for the levy of process-fees in force for the time being.‖
905\. The law relating to domestic arbitration, international commercial
arbitration and enforcement of foreign arbitral awards came to be consolidated
and amended by the Arbitration and Conciliation Act of 1996 (Act of 1996)
which is also an enactment by the Parliament. Section 82 of this statute
conferred the power upon the High Court to make rules consistent with the Act
as to all proceedings under the Act before the court.
906\. Both Mr. Chandhiok as well as Ms. Rathore contend that for this reason,
Item 8 of the impugned Schedule II in fact not only suffers from
arbitrariness, but it encroaches upon the jurisdiction and statutory power
conferred on the Delhi High Court to frame rules with regard to the matters
relating to arbitration.
907\. To this extent, there is substance in the petitioner's contention that
by prescribing a new court fee structure for proceedings under the Arbitration
Act, 1996 on ad valorem basis as noted above, the respondents have encroached
upon the exclusive domain and jurisdiction of this court. The impugned
amendment W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 511 of 531 impacting the proceedings under
the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 tantamounts to usurpation of the
powers of this court under Section 82 of the Arbitration Act, 1996 and for
this reason as well is beyond the jurisdiction and legislative competence of
the respondents.
(XXII) Legislative procedure prescribed under the Govt.
of NCT of Delhi Act, 1991 and National Capital Territory of Delhi (Transaction
of Business Rules), 1993 not followed by the Government of NCT of Delhi
908\. The petitioners have contended that the Government of NCT of Delhi, in
effecting the impugned amendment, has neither satisfied the requirements of
the Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi Act, 1991, and nor has
it complied with the Transaction of Business of National Capital Territory of
Delhi Rules, 1993 framed under the Act. We now move on to a discussion of the
relevant statutory provisions and rules, compliance of which has been
challenged.
909\. Mr. Chandhiok, learned Senior Counsel for the petitioner has contended
that the respondents failed to comply with the requirements of Section 24 of
Government of NCT of Delhi Act, 1991 which deals with assent to Bills passed
by the Legislative Assembly of Delhi. They rely on Section 46 of GNCT of Delhi
Act, 1991 to urge that court fee forms part of the Consolidated Fund. It is
further contended that in terms of Section 27, which W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page
512 of 531 deals with planned expenditure, previous sanction of the President
is necessary. It is urged that the Government of NCT of Delhi has no power to
spend any amount without prior approval of the President of India. Section 30
of the GNCT of Delhi Act, 1991 refers to unplanned expenditure.
910\. It has been further contended that in order to establish the broad
correlation necessary to justify increase in court fee, the respondents were
required to place the statement under Section 27 and 30 of the Government of
NCT of Delhi Act, 1991 before the court to justify the enactment and not just
any tabulation without any basis.
911\. The respondents have on the other hand relied on Section 22 of
Government of NCT of Delhi Act, 1991 and Rule 55 of the Transaction of
Business Rules to explain the circumstances for reference of the matter to the
Central Government. They have contended that as per the requirements of
Section 22 of the Government of the NCT of Delhi Act, 1991, the proposals to
amend the schedule of court fee essentially being a Finance Bill, was referred
to the Lt. Governor of Delhi as per law before introducing the Bill in the
Delhi Legislative Assembly.
912\. From the averments in the counter affidavit; the records produced before
us; the constitutional provisions and the judicial precedents, the following
is manifested:
    (i)    A request was made by the Lt. Governor of Delhi to the
    W.P.(C)No.4770/2012                                   page 513 of 531
Government of India (Ministry of Home Affairs) vide letter dated 12th August
2011 India for prior approval of the Central Government to amend the schedule
of the Court Fees Act, as it sought to amend a Central Act.
(ii) A letter dated 20th April, 2012 was received from Central Government
conveying the ―prior approval of Central Government‖ and further directing the
GNCT to get the Bill vetted by Law Department of GNCTD.
(iii) The Bill was passed by the Legislative Assembly of the NCT of Delhi on
4th July, 2012.
(iv) In accordance with Article 239AA read with Section 24 of the NCT of Delhi
Act 1991, the Governor reserved the Bill for the consideration of the
President.
(v) By letter dated 15th June, 2012, the Court Fees Amendment Bill, 2012 was
referred to the President for her consideration, wherein it was stated as
under:-
> ―As the Bill relates to amendment of the Court Fees Act, 1870, which is a
> law made by the Parliament, Lt. Governor, Delhi has reserved the said Bill
> as passed by the Legislative Assembly for consideration and assent of the
> President of India under proviso of sub-clause (c) of clause (3) of Article
> 239AA of the Constitution and Rule 55(1)(a) of the Transaction of Business
> of the National Capital Territory of Delhi Rules, 1993‖.
(vi) Vide the letter dated 6th July, 2012 of Ministry of Home
W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 514 of 531 Affairs, it was communicated to the GNCT
of Delhi that the Court Fees (Delhi Amendment) Bill, 2012 has received the
assent of the President on 4th July, 2012.
913\. In exercise of the powers conferred by section 44 of the Government of
National Capital Territory of Delhi Act, 1991 (1 of 1992) the President made
the Transaction of Business of National Capital Territory of Delhi Rules, 1993
for the conduct of business of the NCT of Delhi.
914\. It has been argued on behalf of the petitioners before us that the
procedure under Article 239AA is distinct from the procedure under the
Transaction of Business Rules of the Government of NCT of Delhi and that both
have to be complied with. Mr. Chandhiok, learned Senior Counsel for the
petitioner submits that the letter dated 20th April, 2012 from the Government
of India noted above shows that the Law Department had not seen the Bill which
reflects non-compliance of Rule 29 and 30 of the Transaction of Business of
National Capital Territory of Delhi Rules, 1993. The submission is that in
terms of this Rule, approval had to be sought for the draft which was to be
placed before the Legislative Assembly. If the draft was yet to be vetted by
the Law Department then the approval by a letter dated 20th April, 2012 was
not to the draft Bill which was required to be vetted.
915\. It is contended that Rule 30 mandated that a legislative proposal shall
not be submitted to the Chief Minister until the W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 515
of 531 Department concerned has consulted the Law Department as to the need
for the proposed legislation from legal point of view, the competence of the
Legislature of the Capital to enact the measure proposed, any constitutional
or legal requirement as to the obtaining of previous sanction of the President
or recommendations of the Lieutenant Governor, and the consistency of the
proposed measure with the provisions of the Constitution and in particular
those relating to the fundamental rights. Rule 31 mandates that the proposal
shall be forwarded to the Law Department, requesting it to draft the Bill
accordingly. Thereafter, the Law Department shall prepare a draft Bill and
return the proposal along with the draft Bill to the parent department
concerned under Rule 32.
916\. In the instant case, other than a token reference to it, the Law
Department has not really been involved in the exercise undertaken for
drafting of the Bill nor were information or inputs sought in compliance of
these Rules.
917\. The petitioners contend that the respondents also violated Rule 33
inasmuch as the Administrative Department did not obtain the opinion of such
officers and bodies as it deems necessary on the draft Bill. It is contended
that the opinions so received along with a copy of the draft Bill were
required to be submitted to the Minister-in-charge. The factors which were
relevant for proposing the enhancement of the court fee as well as the data
which ought to have been considered by the authorities have been suggested as
W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 516 of 531 necessary in several judicial precedents
noticed by us heretofore. The reports of the Law Commission are important.
Inputs from social scientists and economists were extremely relevant.
Important human rights issues and the fundamental right of access to justice
were involved. The impact on the authority of the High Court of the proposed
legislation deserved a close scrutiny. In the present case, simply formal
certificates have been endorsed by the authorities on the proposal. This
certainly is no compliance with the spirit, purpose and intendment of the
Rules.
918\. Under the mandate of Rule 35, in case it was decided to proceed with the
draft Bill with or without the amendments, the Administrative Department was
mandatorily required to send the case to the Law Department requesting it to
prepare a final draft of the Bill. The finalised draft bill was required to be
sent by the Law Department under Rule 36 to the concerned Department
communicating, if any, sanctions which are required for the Bill. The
petitioners further pointed out that so far as repealing and amending Bills
are concerned or measures designed solely to codify and consolidate existing
enactments and legislation of a formal character, under Rule 38, the Law
Department would initiate the same and forward a copy of the draft Bill to the
Department which is concerned with the subject matter for consideration as an
administrative measure. The concerned Department shall, thereafter, make such
enquiries as are deemed fit and send to the Law Department its opinion thereon
with a copy of W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 517 of 531 any other communication
received by it on subject.
919\. The proposal for amendment of the Court Fees Act, 1870 has not been
initiated by the Law Department nor the draft Bill prepared by it. The Revenue
Department appears to have motivated the impugned legislation. The record
placed before us does not reflect that the binding jurisprudence and material
in the public domain, which has been placed before us, was noticed or
considered by it.
920\. When a Bill has been passed by the Legislative Assembly, it is required
under Rule 42(1) that it shall be examined in the Department concerned and the
Law Department and this shall be presented to the Lieutenant Governor with the
following:-
(i) a report of the Secretary of the department concerned as to the reasons,
if any, why the Lieutenant Governor's assent should not be given;
(ii) a report of the Law Secretary as to the reasons, if any, why the
Lieutenant Governor's assent should not be given or the Bill should not be
reserved for consideration of the President.
These are also not forthcoming on the record.
921\. It is further pointed out that under Rule 44(1), all administrative
Departments are required to consult the Law Department on proposals for
legislation. Such exercise does not appear to have been undertaken by the
respondents.
W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 518 of 531
922\. We may note here the averments made on affidavit of the respondents
after acceptance of the recommendations of the Sub- Committee by the Principal
Secretary (Law, Justice and Legislative Affairs). It is stated as follows:-
> ―The Committee under the chairmanship of the Principal Secretary (Law,
> Justice and Legislative Affairs), Government of NCT of Delhi accepted the
> recommendations of the sub-committee, subsequent to which, the approval of
> the Council of Ministers was obtained, and thereafter the bill was placed
> before the Delhi Vidhan Sabha. Pursuant to the advice of the Law and Justice
> Department, and taking into consideration that the Court Fees Act, 1870 is a
> Central legislation, a request was made to the Secretary (Home), Government
> of India, for obtaining prior approval of the Central Government. The
> Ministry of Home Affairs examined the matter in consultation with the
> Ministry of Law and Justice and thereafter the approval was granted. On
> receipt of the approval, the bill was again placed before the Cabinet of
> Ministers and thereafter the amended Bill was introduced before the
> Assembly, which was then passed unanimously. The Bill became an Act only
> after it received Presidential Assent and the date of amendment was notified
> as 01.08.2012, after the approval of the Lt. Governor.‖
923\. The above narration discloses that the consideration of the matter by
the Law Department appears to have been of the recommendations of the Revenue
Department. The settled principles of law which govern the consideration of
the matter have escaped notice. There is not a word about the planned or
W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 519 of 531 unplanned outlay or grants received or the
expenditure or receipts of court fee. There is not a remotest suggestion of
the impact of the amended Bill on the several fundamental rights of the
citizens or on the right of access to justice of a common man which had to be
considered given the nature of the amendments.
924\. The above discussion manifests the undue and completely unnecessary
haste with which the respondents have proceeded in the matter, without
examination of the relevant material on the issue, the binding judicial
precedents, without following either the constitutional mandate or the
procedure prescribed by statute and the above rules.
925\. The counter affidavit and additional affidavit filed by the GNCT of
Delhi state that the procedure as prescribed under Article 239AA has been
followed. We, however, find that the documents produced by the respondent do
not support this submission.
(XXIII) Conflict between substantive provisions of the Court Fees Act, 1870
and the impugned amendment
926\. The petitioners have pointed out several instances where there is a
conflict between the substantive provisions of the statute with the amendment
to the schedules effected by the impugned legislation.
927\. The current examination would be incomplete without extrapolating the
provisions of the Court Fees (Delhi Amendment) W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 520 of
531 Act, 2012 with the provisions of the Court Fees Act, 1870. We find that
the same results in a unique situation.
928\. It is to be noted that Section 19 of the Court Fees Act, 1870 exempts
payment of court fee on probate of properties where the value of the property
in respect of which the probate shall be granted shall extend only up to
Rs.1,000/-. No amendment has been effected to this statutory provision.
However, under entry 11 of Schedule I of the Court Fees (Delhi Amendment) Act,
2012, court fee has been exempted on probate of property which is valued under
Rs.1,00,000/-. This limit of exemption has been increased by way of amendment
to the Schedule without amending the substantive provisions of the statute!
929\. We have detailed above the erroneous provisions made in entry 22 of
Schedule II of the amended Court Fees Act, 1870 wherein the respondents have
stipulated the court fee payable on a petition for grant of anticipatory bail
if filed before the Magistrate. Law does not permit any such petition.
Similarly, the respondents have prescribed court fee on petitions under
Section 437 of the Cr.P.C. if filed before the Sessions Court or the High
Court. This provision is also contrary to law as such petitions are never
filed before the High Court of Delhi.
930\. Our attention has been drawn to the Section 19 of the Court Fees Act
which provides the substantive legal provisions which render certain documents
as exempt from court fee. Sub-Section W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 521 of 531
(xvii) of Section 19 of the Court Fees Act, 1870 stipulates that a petition by
a prisoner or other person in duress or under restraint of any Court or its
officers is exempt from fixation of court fee. By virtue of Entry 22 in the
Schedule II of the impugned legislation noticed hereinabove, court fee has
been prescribed even on petitions by persons who are in custody. It is
noteworthy that no amendment has been effected to Section 19 of the Court Fees
Act.
931\. Section 11 of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 (No.26 of
1996), is concerned with the appointment of arbitrators. Under sub-section 10
of Section 11, the Chief Justice may make such scheme as he may deem
appropriate for dealing with matters entrusted by sub-sections (4) or (5) or
(6) to him. It is pointed out that in exercise of powers conferred by sub-
section 10 of Section 11 of the Arbitration Act of 1996, the Chief Justice of
the Delhi High Court had notified a comprehensive ‗Scheme for Appointment of
Arbitrators, 1996' by notification No.16/Rules dated 29th January, 1996 which
was further amended by notification No.174/Rules/DHC dated 18th August, 2003
and Notification No.391/Rules/DHC dated 9th November, 2009. Further amendment
was affected in this scheme by the notification No.253/Rules/DHC dated 23rd
July, 2010.
932\. The Scheme dated 29th January, 1996 inter alia included the following :-
―3. Authority to deal with the request - (i) For the purpose of dealing with
the request made under W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 522 of 531 para 2, the Chief
Justice hereby designates:
(a) the Civil Judge where the value of the subject matter does not exceed Rs.1
lakh;
(b) the District Judge/Additional District Judge where the value of the
subject matter does not exceed Rs.5 lakh; and
(c) the Judge of the High Court exercising ordinary original civil
jurisdiction, where the value of the subject matter exceeds Rs.5 lakh
(ii) The request falling under sub-para (a) of para 3 shall initially be
placed before Senior Civil Judge for appropriate allotment; the requests
falling under sub- para (b) of para 3 shall initially be placed before the
District Judge for appropriate allotment; and the request made under sub-para
(c) of para 3 shall initially be placed before the Judge-in-charge on the
Original Side of the High Court for appropriate allotment.‖
933\. In the later amendments to the Scheme, the above para 3 was substituted
by the following:-
> ―3(i) All the Judges of the High Court exercising ordinary civil
> jurisdiction stand designated under Section 11(6) of the Arbitration and
> Conciliation Act, to make necessary measures for the purpose of dealing with
> the request made in para 2.
> (ii) The request so made shall initially be placed before the Judge in
> charge of the Original Side for appropriate allocation.‖
934\. Therefore, as per the amended Scheme for Appointment of
W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 523 of 531 Arbitrators notified by the Delhi High
Court in exercise of statutory powers, the petition under sub-section (5) or
(6) of Section 11 of Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 can be made only
to the judges of the High Court exercising original civil jurisdiction and not
to the district courts.
935\. Despite the clear stipulation in the Scheme that petitions under Section
11 cannot be made to District or civil judges, the impugned amendment to the
Court Fees Act, 1870 noticed hereinabove shows that the respondents have
notified court fees payable on Section 11 of Arbitration Act petitions which
may be filed before the District Judges in Delhi as well as the Civil Judges.
936\. The above manifests that even the existing provisions of the Court Fees
Act, 1870 were not examined before the enactment was proposed and effected.
The respondents have certainly not considered the impact of the substantive
statutory provisions, including those in special laws such as the Arbitration
and Conciliation Act, 1996, when juxtaposed against the entries in the
Schedules. The above narration reflects the resultant conflict.
(XXIV) Whether the Government of NCT of Delhi was prohibited from enhancing
court fee by virtue of Section 35 of the Court Fees Act, 1870
937\. The petitioners have urged that under Section 35 of the Court Fees Act,
1870, the appropriate Government is empowered only to reduce or remit the
court fee from time to time by W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 524 of 531
notification in the Official Gazette. No amendment has been effected to this
statutory provision. It is urged that with respect to the Delhi Legislature,
there is therefore no statutory empowerment to effect enhancement of the court
fee. The petitioners submit that the Amendment Act runs totally contrary to
Section 35 of the Court Fees Act. Thus, it violates the mandate of the
statute.
938\. While the respondent accepts that it is the ‗appropriate government'
under Section 35 of the Court Fees Act 1870, they dispute that Section 35
could interdict legislative power and authority.
939\. Reference has been made to the provisions of Section 35 of the Court
Fees Act, 1870 which reads as follows:-
> ―35. Power to reduce or remit fees -
> The Appropriate Government may, from time to time by notification in the
> Official Gazette, reduce or remit, in the whole or in any part of the
> territories under its administration, all or any of the fees mentioned in
> the First and Second Schedules to this Act annexed, and may in like manner
> cancel or vary such order.‖
940\. The expression ‗appropriate government' has been defined under Section
1A of the Act which states that the expression in relation to fees and stamps
relating to documents presented or to be presented before any officer serving
under the Central Government as relating to that government, and in relation
to any other fees or W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 525 of 531 stamps, as the State
Government.
941\. So far as interpretation of the Court Fees Act is concerned, in AIR 1969
Delhi 130, Chief Controlling Revenue Authority and Anr. v. Fertilizer
Corporation of India Ltd. and Ors., it was ruled that the courts should put a
liberal interpretation on fiscal statutes like the Court Fees Act.
942\. In AIR 1924 Mad. 420 (430) (FB), AIR 1957 Andh Pra 706 (710) (DB), AIR
1955 Andhra 140 (140, 141), it has been further declared that it is not open
to the court to narrow or whittle down the operation of the Act by seeming
considerations of the hardship or business inconvenience or the like.
943\. In AIR 1959 Punj 629 (at 631), Bhura Mal Dan Dayal v. Imperial Flour
Mills Ltd. & Ors., it was held that the courts should put a liberal
interpretation on fiscal statutes like the Court Fees Act so as to lessen and
not add to the burden of litigation.
944\. The petitioner's submission is that the Court Fees Act, 1870 permitted
only reduction or remission of court fees and does not confer the power to
enhance court fees. It is contended that apart from violation of the
constitutional mandate, the amendment suffers from a manifest error of
exercise of jurisdiction which was not statutorily conferred on it.
945\. Though these submissions of the petitioners remain un- rebutted by the
respondents, we must note that Section 35 of the W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 526
of 531 Court Fees Act confers on the administration, the power to reduce or
remit the court fee. Such power is conferred on the administrative authorities
undertaking executive functions. However we are unable to hold that Section 35
of the Court Fees Act would prohibit a competent legislature from effecting a
statutory amendment of Section 35 of the Court Fees Act, a legislative act.
    (XXV)          The   Delhi     High               Court     Committee's
                   recommendations
946\. The respondents have insisted that they have effected the impugned
legislation based on recommendations of a committee of this court. To say the
least, this submission is not supported by the records placed before us.
947\. As per the report of the Sub-Committee appointed by the respondent, it
appears that the committee of this court was concerned only with the
examination of the feasibility for creation and providing of e-stamping for
the convenience of the litigants. The recommendations of the committee were
also restricted to this aspect alone. Rationalization for the purposes of
e-stamping does not mean enhancement of court fee dehors the constitutional
mandate and legal provisions. No such directions by the High Court Committee
were issued or have been pointed out.
CONCLUSION
948\. We have discussed at length the submissions made by both
W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 527 of 531 sides serially and have recorded our
findings individually. Some of the important conclusions which have persuaded
us to decide can be summed up as follows:
I. Article 239AA of the Constitution of India does not empower the Delhi
Legislative Assembly to effect amendment of the Court Fees Act, 1870, a
Central legislation. II. Even if it could be held that the Delhi Legislative
Assembly had the legislative competence to legislate on the subject, the
respondents have failed to abide by the legislative procedure constitutionally
mandated. The respondents neither complied with the established essential pre-
conditions for the Presidential consideration and assent under Article 239AA
of the Constitution nor invited the Presidential attention to the repugnancy
between the Central enactment and the proposed legislative amendment. III. The
State has failed to discharge the onus which rested on it to justify the
increase in the court fee. No material has been placed on record to justify
the exorbitant increase in the levy of court fees in most instances. It is not
the respondents' plea that there is any deficit in the available funds for
incurring the cost of administration of justice. By the impugned legislation,
the respondents have created unreasonably two well defined classes of
litigants - one, who will be required to pay fixed court fees and secondly,
the respondents have introduced a second class of litigants who will be
required to pay court fees equivalent to a fixed percentage based on the
valuation of the litigation, that is, court fee on ad valorem basis, without a
maximum limit. The levy has a W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 528 of 531
discriminatory impact on the litigants; the same is based on no intelligible
differentia and is constitutionally impermissible classification. The impugned
legislation, therefore, is ex facie substantively unreasonable, arbitrary and
ultra vires Article 14 of the Constitution. The court fee levy has a
disproportionate gender impact as well and is not sustainable for this reason.
IV. The imposition of the court fee by percentage without a maximum limit is
unrelated to the cost of any service rendered. The ad valorem levy of court
fee after a particular level, loses all elements of quid pro quo and,
therefore, loses the characteristics of a ‗fee'. It thus tantamounts to
recovery of amounts towards general revenue under the guise of court fees and,
therefore, partakes all characteristics of a ‗tax' which is beyond the
legislative competence of the Delhi Legislative Assembly. V. The Court Fees
(Delhi Amendment) Act, 2012 disproportionately impacts the fundamental right
of access to justice under Article 21 of the Constitution of India and has a
deleterious impact on litigation in courts. It results in violation of the
obligations of the State to ensure an effective and efficient system for
administration of justice. It is an absolute entry point financial barrier to
the courts for not only those who are below the poverty line but also those on
the ‗border line' who are barely meeting the essentials of daily needs (that
is, such persons who would not meet the forma pauperis definition disentitling
them to court fee waivers and exemptions). The impugned legislation results in
denial of equality before the law to parties to a W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 529
of 531 proceeding as it results in unequal opportunity of access to court to
persons placed in different economic categories. The Court Fees (Delhi
Amendment) Act, 2012 is unconstitutional as it adversely impacts the Part III
rights as well as violates the Directive Principles of State Policy under
Article 38 and 39A of the Constitution.
VI. The impugned legislation adversely impacts the rule making power of the
Delhi High Court as well as its jurisdiction. VII. The respondents have failed
to comply with the procedure prescribed under the Government of NCT of Delhi
Act, 1991 and the National Capital Territory of Delhi (Transaction of
Business) Rules, 1993.
RESULT
949\. We have held that the Delhi Legislative Assembly did not have the
legislative competence to amend the Court Fees Act, 1870\. We have also held
that the Court Fees (Delhi Amendment) Act, 2012 adversely impacts the Part-III
rights and results in violation of Article 38 and 39A of the Constitution of
India. For these reasons, the Court Fees (Delhi Amendment) Act, 2012 as a
whole has to be struck down. The Court Fees (Delhi Amendment) Act, 2012 is
hereby declared as invalid and ultra vires the Constitution and therefore,
struck down.
950\. As a result, the respondents would be liable to refund court fee, which
has been recovered from litigants based on the prescriptions contained in the
Court Fees (Delhi Amendment) Act, W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 530 of 531 2012\.
Given the delay which may result in the cases if the parties were required to
seek amendment of their respective pleadings on account of the refund of the
court fees, we direct that the concerned courts may permit appropriate
endorsements to be made in the pleadings so as to appropriately clarify the
court fee affixed thereon. It is left to the judicial discretion of the court
concerned to suo motu mould appropriate directions in this regard.
951\. So far as CM Nos.11129/2012, 16545/2012, 16845/2012 and 16882/2012
seeking impleadments are concerned, we have heard learned senior counsel and
counsels on merits on the writ petitions. The prayer made in these
applications is, therefore, satisfied. These applications are so disposed of.
952\. Before parting with the case, we place on record our appreciation for
the valuable and effective assistance rendered by Mr.Amarjit Singh Chandhiok,
learned senior counsel and Mr.Nakul Dewan, Advocate in these matters.
953\. Since the main writ petitions have been filed in representative
capacity, we are not inclined to award any cost on the petition.
The writ petitions are allowed in the above terms.
                                                       GITA MITTAL, J
    OCTOBER 09, 2013/aj                                   J.R. MIDHA, J
    W.P.(C)No.4770/2012                                      page 531 of 531
Court Fees (Delhi Amendment) Act, W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 530 of 531 2012\.
Given the delay which may result in the cases if the parties were required to
seek amendment of their respective pleadings on account of the refund of the
court fees, we direct that the concerned courts may permit appropriate
endorsements to be made in the pleadings so as to appropriately clarify the
court fee affixed thereon. It is left to the judicial discretion of the court
concerned to suo motu mould appropriate directions in this regard.
951\. So far as CM Nos.11129/2012, 16545/2012, 16845/2012 and 16882/2012
seeking impleadments are concerned, we have heard learned senior counsel and
counsels on merits on the writ petitions. The prayer made in these
applications is, therefore, satisfied. These applications are so disposed of.
952\. Before parting with the case, we place on record our appreciation for
the valuable and effective assistance rendered by Mr.Amarjit Singh Chandhiok,
learned senior counsel and Mr.Nakul Dewan, Advocate in these matters.
953\. Since the main writ petitions have been filed in representative
capacity, we are not inclined to award any cost on the petition.
                         Mohit Mathur, P-2 in WP (C)
                         No.4770/2012 in person and Ms.
                         Sandhya Gupta & Mr.Ritesh Singh,
                         Advs.
                         Mr. Amit Khemka, Adv. with Ms.
                         Sanorita D. Bharali, Mr. Rishi
                         Sehgal, Advs. for New Delhi Bar
                         Association, Rohini Bar Association
                         & Dwarka Bar Association for
                         applicants in CM Nos.16545/2012,
                         16845/2012 & 16882/2012.
                                 versus
    GOVT. OF NCT OF DELHI & ANR.             ......Respondents
                  Through : Mr. Harish N. Salve, Sr. Adv. with
                            Mr.Nakul Dewan, Mr. J.M. Kalia,
                            Mr. Raghav Shankar &
                            Ms.Bhawna Garg, Advs. for Govt.
                            of NCT of Delhi.
    W.P.(C)No.4770/2012                               page 1 of 531
     +      WP (C) No.7250/2012
Court Fees (Delhi Amendment) Act, W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 530 of 531 2012\.
Given the delay which may result in the cases if the parties were required to
seek amendment of their respective pleadings on account of the refund of the
court fees, we direct that the concerned courts may permit appropriate
endorsements to be made in the pleadings so as to appropriately clarify the
court fee affixed thereon. It is left to the judicial discretion of the court
concerned to suo motu mould appropriate directions in this regard.
951\. So far as CM Nos.11129/2012, 16545/2012, 16845/2012 and 16882/2012
seeking impleadments are concerned, we have heard learned senior counsel and
counsels on merits on the writ petitions. The prayer made in these
applications is, therefore, satisfied. These applications are so disposed of.
952\. Before parting with the case, we place on record our appreciation for
the valuable and effective assistance rendered by Mr.Amarjit Singh Chandhiok,
learned senior counsel and Mr.Nakul Dewan, Advocate in these matters.
953\. Since the main writ petitions have been filed in representative
capacity, we are not inclined to award any cost on the petition.
                         Mohit Mathur, P-2 in WP (C)
                         No.4770/2012 in person and Ms.
                         Sandhya Gupta & Mr.Ritesh Singh,
                         Advs.
                         Mr. Amit Khemka, Adv. with Ms.
                         Sanorita D. Bharali, Mr. Rishi
                         Sehgal, Advs. for New Delhi Bar
                         Association, Rohini Bar Association
                         & Dwarka Bar Association for
                         applicants in CM Nos.16545/2012,
                         16845/2012 & 16882/2012.
                                 versus
    GOVT. OF NCT OF DELHI & ANR.             ......Respondents
                  Through : Mr. Harish N. Salve, Sr. Adv. with
                            Mr.Nakul Dewan, Mr. J.M. Kalia,
                            Mr. Raghav Shankar &
                            Ms.Bhawna Garg, Advs. for Govt.
                            of NCT of Delhi.
    W.P.(C)No.4770/2012                               page 1 of 531
     +      WP (C) No.7250/2012
Court Fees (Delhi Amendment) Act, W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 530 of 531 2012\.
Given the delay which may result in the cases if the parties were required to
seek amendment of their respective pleadings on account of the refund of the
court fees, we direct that the concerned courts may permit appropriate
endorsements to be made in the pleadings so as to appropriately clarify the
court fee affixed thereon. It is left to the judicial discretion of the court
concerned to suo motu mould appropriate directions in this regard.
951\. So far as CM Nos.11129/2012, 16545/2012, 16845/2012 and 16882/2012
seeking impleadments are concerned, we have heard learned senior counsel and
counsels on merits on the writ petitions. The prayer made in these
applications is, therefore, satisfied. These applications are so disposed of.
952\. Before parting with the case, we place on record our appreciation for
the valuable and effective assistance rendered by Mr.Amarjit Singh Chandhiok,
learned senior counsel and Mr.Nakul Dewan, Advocate in these matters.
953\. Since the main writ petitions have been filed in representative
capacity, we are not inclined to award any cost on the petition.
                         Mohit Mathur, P-2 in WP (C)
                         No.4770/2012 in person and Ms.
                         Sandhya Gupta & Mr.Ritesh Singh,
                         Advs.
                         Mr. Amit Khemka, Adv. with Ms.
                         Sanorita D. Bharali, Mr. Rishi
                         Sehgal, Advs. for New Delhi Bar
                         Association, Rohini Bar Association
                         & Dwarka Bar Association for
                         applicants in CM Nos.16545/2012,
                         16845/2012 & 16882/2012.
                                 versus
    GOVT. OF NCT OF DELHI & ANR.             ......Respondents
                  Through : Mr. Harish N. Salve, Sr. Adv. with
                            Mr.Nakul Dewan, Mr. J.M. Kalia,
                            Mr. Raghav Shankar &
                            Ms.Bhawna Garg, Advs. for Govt.
                            of NCT of Delhi.
    W.P.(C)No.4770/2012                               page 1 of 531
     +      WP (C) No.7250/2012
    Rajiv Khosla                                          ..........Petitioner
                          Through:      Mr.Rajiv Khosla in person.
                                        Mr.M.N. Krishnamani, Sr. Adv.
                                        with Ms.Aditi Patanjali, Adv. for
                                        Delhi Bar Association
                               versus
    State of NCT of Delhi                              ...........Respondent
                      Through:          Mr. Harish N. Salve, Sr. Adv. with
                                        Mr. Nakul Dewan, Mr. J.M. Kalia,
                                        Mr. Raghav Shankar &
                                        Ms.Bhawna Garg, Advs. for Govt.
Court Fees (Delhi Amendment) Act, W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 530 of 531 2012\.
Given the delay which may result in the cases if the parties were required to
seek amendment of their respective pleadings on account of the refund of the
court fees, we direct that the concerned courts may permit appropriate
endorsements to be made in the pleadings so as to appropriately clarify the
court fee affixed thereon. It is left to the judicial discretion of the court
concerned to suo motu mould appropriate directions in this regard.
951\. So far as CM Nos.11129/2012, 16545/2012, 16845/2012 and 16882/2012
seeking impleadments are concerned, we have heard learned senior counsel and
counsels on merits on the writ petitions. The prayer made in these
applications is, therefore, satisfied. These applications are so disposed of.
952\. Before parting with the case, we place on record our appreciation for
the valuable and effective assistance rendered by Mr.Amarjit Singh Chandhiok,
learned senior counsel and Mr.Nakul Dewan, Advocate in these matters.
953\. Since the main writ petitions have been filed in representative
capacity, we are not inclined to award any cost on the petition.
                         Mohit Mathur, P-2 in WP (C)
                         No.4770/2012 in person and Ms.
                         Sandhya Gupta & Mr.Ritesh Singh,
                         Advs.
                         Mr. Amit Khemka, Adv. with Ms.
                         Sanorita D. Bharali, Mr. Rishi
                         Sehgal, Advs. for New Delhi Bar
                         Association, Rohini Bar Association
                         & Dwarka Bar Association for
                         applicants in CM Nos.16545/2012,
                         16845/2012 & 16882/2012.
                                 versus
    GOVT. OF NCT OF DELHI & ANR.             ......Respondents
                  Through : Mr. Harish N. Salve, Sr. Adv. with
                            Mr.Nakul Dewan, Mr. J.M. Kalia,
                            Mr. Raghav Shankar &
                            Ms.Bhawna Garg, Advs. for Govt.
                            of NCT of Delhi.
    W.P.(C)No.4770/2012                               page 1 of 531
     +      WP (C) No.7250/2012
    Rajiv Khosla                                          ..........Petitioner
                          Through:      Mr.Rajiv Khosla in person.
                                        Mr.M.N. Krishnamani, Sr. Adv.
                                        with Ms.Aditi Patanjali, Adv. for
                                        Delhi Bar Association
                               versus
    State of NCT of Delhi                              ...........Respondent
                      Through:          Mr. Harish N. Salve, Sr. Adv. with
                                        Mr. Nakul Dewan, Mr. J.M. Kalia,
                                        Mr. Raghav Shankar &
                                        Ms.Bhawna Garg, Advs. for Govt.
Court Fees (Delhi Amendment) Act, W.P.(C)No.4770/2012 page 530 of 531 2012\.
Given the delay which may result in the cases if the parties were required to
seek amendment of their respective pleadings on account of the refund of the
court fees, we direct that the concerned courts may permit appropriate
endorsements to be made in the pleadings so as to appropriately clarify the
court fee affixed thereon. It is left to the judicial discretion of the court
concerned to suo motu mould appropriate directions in this regard.
951\. So far as CM Nos.11129/2012, 16545/2012, 16845/2012 and 16882/2012
seeking impleadments are concerned, we have heard learned senior counsel and
counsels on merits on the writ petitions. The prayer made in these
applications is, therefore, satisfied. These applications are so disposed of.
952\. Before parting with the case, we place on record our appreciation for
the valuable and effective assistance rendered by Mr.Amarjit Singh Chandhiok,
learned senior counsel and Mr.Nakul Dewan, Advocate in these matters.
953\. Since the main writ petitions have been filed in representative
capacity, we are not inclined to award any cost on the petition.
