Delhi High Court
Mr. Anil Gupta And Anr. vs Mr. Kunal Dasgupta And Ors. on 3 June, 2002
Author: V Jain
Bench: V Jain
JUDGMENT Vijender Jain, J.
1\. Plaintiff no.1 is a media consultant, plaintiff no.2 is a company duly
incorporated under the Companies Act, defendant no.1 is the Chief Executive
Officer of defendant no.2-Soni Entertainment Television, defendant no.3 is a
company incorporated under the laws of Singapore, which is the principal
holding company of defendant no.2, defendant no.4-UTV Ltd. is a television
production house having its regd. office at Mumbai.
2\. It has been claimed that plaintiff has got very good reputation in his
field of activities and has introduced commercial sponsored programme of
Doordarshan and has been associated with serials such as 'Buniyad', 'Rajni'
etc. and the first telefilm 'Janam'. He has been the founder member and
convener of the Indian Broadcasters Association. The plaintiff set up a
company in the year 1995 called 'A to Z Entertainment Pvt. Ltd.', which was
later renamed as 'Taal India Communications Pvt. Ltd.'- plaintiff no.2.
3\. It is the case of the plaintiff that in the year 1996, plaintiff conceived
the idea of producing a reality television programme containing the process of
sustained by the plaintiffs, may be difficult to be measured in terms of
money.
105\. Therefore, I restrain the defendants, theirs agents from transmitting or
enabling the transmission by television of the programme entitled 'Shubh
Vivah' or any other programme or transmission whatsoever having its subject or
theme of match making for a period of four months from the date of the order.
If the plaintiffs are not in a position to transmit on television its
programme entitled 'Swayamvar' within a period of four months, defendants
shall be at liberty to transmit its programme Shubh Vivah after expiry of four
months. In case the plaintiff launches its programme 'Swayamvar' within a
period of four months from the date of the order, the defendants are further
restrained from transmitting or showing or exhibiting or televising its
programme 'Shubh Vivah' or any other programme having its subject or theme of
match making for a further period of two months. This further period of two
months is given so that the plaintiffs will have a head start by televising
its episodes for two months. Nothing said in this order shall be an expression
the idea of producing a reality television programme containing the process of
match making to the point of actual spouse selection in which real everyday
ordinary persons would participate before a TV audience. Mr.Sibal, learned
senior counsel for the plaintiffs has contended that plaintiff devised a
unique and novel concept for a TV show in which it would be the prerogative of
a woman to select a groom from a variety of suitors. The plaintiff decided to
name the concept 'Swayamvar' knowing that a large number of people would
associate the name with the idea of a woman selecting a groom in a public fora
and that would create the necessary instantaneous recall and recognition of
mythological swayamvar in the minds of a large number of people and give the
program a head-start. The aforesaid concept titled 'Swayamvar' was disclosed
in early 1997 by the plaintiff to his wife and one Mr.K. Chandrasekhar.
Plaintiff applied for registration after developing the concept as a literary
work under the Copyright Act. The work was registered and a certificate was
issued in favor of the plaintiff on 17th December, 1997. Some of the essential
elements of the programme as contained in the copyright concept note was to
the following effect :
1\. A real life entertainment program about a real life situation.
2\. A half-hour long, proposed studio-based television show, also flexible
enough and capable of being shot outdoors for longer stretches of time.
3\. Providing the thrill of matchmaking.
4\. Specifically, providing a platform for marriageable girls to select a
spouse from an array of suitors.
5\. Parents of the girl and suitors to be associated with the entire process.
6\. The participating eligible men to be selected/short-listed by the
producers prior to the show.
7\. Producers will ensure that there is no duplicity or foul play.
8\. Mediation by a mature, articulate, vibrant anchorwoman.
9\. Empowerment of women by promoting secular and progressive spouse
selection.
4\. Plaintiff no.1 disclosed this concept to one Sanjoy Roy in 1997 to involve
his production house called Teamwork Films Pvt. Ltd.
5\. It is the case of the plaintiff that in May/June, 1998, the plaintiff
spoke to defendant no.1 and plaintiff along with his son Samir Gupta went to
see defendant no.1 in Mumbai and gave one page concept note of Swayamvar to
the defendant, who gave an enthusiastic response to the idea of Swayamvar.
Defendant no.1 further asked the plaintiff to give a detailed presentation of
the same by end of July 1998. Mr.Sibal has contended that concept note given
by the plaintiff to said defendant at the said meeting was a disclosure in
utmost confidentiality which is the usual practice in the industry. The second
meeting took place in defendant no.1's office with the plaintiff. Mr.Sanjoy
Roy, Ms.Manika Berry, Samir Gupta were also present in the meeting. In that
meeting defendant no.1 asked Ms.Raveena Raj Kohli, then head of programming of
defendant to join them. (There is some dispute with regard to the presence of
Ms.Raveena Raj Kohli with which I will deal later.) The plaintiff team
described the concept of Swayamvar, highlighting its salient attractions as
world's first unique real life entertainment television series, that would be
studio based with video snapshots used for introduction. The concept contained
selection of a spouse by a woman from ardent suitors conforming to certain
criteria to be specified by the woman, shortlisting of potential grooms and
parents would be involved in the process. The programme would create a family
oriented, sensitive entertainment and would be mediated by a vibrant, mature,
articulate, anchorwoman. It has been averred in the plaint that the plaintiff
informed the defendant that he had registered his concept and the same was
copyrighted. On that day, the plaintiff further elaborated the programme
structure and format, divided into segments for easy implementation in the
presentation made to the defendants as follows :
1\. Specifically designed questionnaire to be distributed by producer and
channel to elicit all personal details with photos.
2\. Computerized matching of the data for selection of participants and audio-
visual clips of the participants.
3\. Exchanging candidate's personal details to help selection and short-
listing for the show. 4. Set to reflect images and symbols of marriage
celebration. 5. Help of astrologers, marriage counsellors, psychologists, etc.
in the selection process in the studio.
6\. Anchor to talk about marriage and roles played by man and woman.
7\. Marriage related games and rituals to be included.
6\. It was contended by Mr.Sibal that when the plaintiff conceived the idea of
Swayamvar, reality television show in match making in spouse selection as such
had not appeared on television anywhere in the world. Therefore, the concept
of a real life reality television show revolving around marriages and
matchmaking was first of its kind as there was no known precedent. It is the
case of the plaintiff that the plaintiff also approached Doordarshan about the
real life reality TV show revolving around marriages in early 2000. It is the
case of the plaintiff that another meeting was fixed for 30th October, 2000 at
the defendants' office at Mumbai where plaintiff went with Mrs.Urmila Gupta,
his wife, Samir Gupta, his son and Mr.Vinod Khanna and on the defendants' side
defendant no.1 and their newly appointed head of programming Ms.Rekha Nigam
were present. In the said meeting, plaintiff handed over to defendant a letter
dated 28th October, 2000 which contained proposal for five programmes
including 'Swayamvar'. The said letter also accompanied a brief concept note
containing the essential details and proposed format of 'Swayamvar'. After the
said meeting defendants asked the plaintiff to give a detailed presentation at
the earliest.
7\. Another meeting was held on 10.11.2000 between defendants and Mrs.Urmila
Gupta, Samir Gupta, wife and son of the plaintiff, who gave a power-point
presentation to the large team of the executive of the defendants. The printed
version of the presentation and an internal discussion document dated
4.11.2000 which has been prepared by the plaintiff's said representatives were
also handed to the defendants officers after the presentation. It was
contended before me that the representative of the plaintiff also imparted
under strict condition of confidentiality and in good faith the following :
1\. Increase in show duration from half an hour to a one-hour format.
2\. Introduction of high value rewards, prizes, gifts, etc. in the form of
'Streedhan'.
3\. Creation of devices such as games and situations, rituals connected with
marriage, to heighten audience/viewer involvement and interest.
4\. Selection process using matrimonial bureaus, web sites, dial-in in
addition to direct applications.
5\. Video tests and grooming of participants, designer costumes, etc. in line
with popular trends.
6\. Promotion and marketing of 'Swayamvar' as India's first ever reality TV
show.
7\. How to handle reservations of the potential participants including option
of opting out anytime during the show. 8. The show limited to the engagement.
Marriage at couple's convenience.
8\. It was contended that defendant by its e-mail dated 10.11.2000 sent by
Ms.Rekha Nigam after the presentation showed enthusiasm of the defendants
about plaintiff's proposal for Swayamvar as they had inter alia requested for
some more details on logistical timelines.
9\. It was the case of the plaintiff that plaintiff saw an article in the
financial Express, Mumbai Edition, dated 18.7.2001 titled 'Camera, Lights,
Shehnai!. SONY TV to play Matchmaker'. The said article informed that
defendant no.2 was due to launch a big budget reality show which would provide
a platform for matchmaking. The report indicated that it would be like a
Swayamvar or a marriage bureau on Television. It is the case of the plaintiff
that this article and other article which appear subsequently in the newspaper
as well as internet uncannily replicate the information confidentially
disclosed by the plaintiff to the defendants during their meetings and
presentations. When the plaintiff came to know in August, 2001 that defendant
no.2 is going to launch a TV reality show 'Shubh Vivah', plaintiff wrote a
letter dated 7.8.2001 to the defendant to clarify as to what this reality show
Shubh Vivah was and then a legal notice was sent to the defendant dated
13.8.2001. The defendant replied the said legal letter by stating that what
they are making was not a copy of Swayamvar and also took the stand that they
have made the plaintiff aware in their meeting held on 30.10.2000 that
defendants were in the process of producing a programme based on the same
theme.
10\. It was contended by Mr.Sibal that the copyright was for creative, unique
and novel TV reality programme to conduct a real life matchmaking show by
giving girls the opportunity, with mediation by an anchor person, to choose a
husband of their own choice from a line-up of the suitors in the presence of
parents in the studio. The plaintiff has sought copyright in developed
production of his concept and the format of his unique match making show which
was brought to the attention and domain of the defendants first in August,
1998 and again in October and November, 2000. It was contended that the
proposed TV programme of the defendants Shubh Vivah launched by defendant
according to Times of India, Delhi Edition dated 31.8.2001 gives the following
primary characteristics :
1\. A Studio based reality television show.
2\. On the subject of match making.
3\. Providing a platform to young women to choose a spouse from a short list
of potential suitors.
4\. Mediation by a celebrity anchorwoman.
5\. Involvement of parents of the girl and suitors.
6\. Enabling selection of spouse through various devices.
7\. Rewarding the couple after Swayamvar is concluded.
8\. Selection process through matrimonial bureau, etc.
9\. Empowerment of women through giving her power of selection.
10\. Giving of gifts to the engaged couple as 'Streedhan'.
11\. Mr.Sibal then contended that taking the plaintiffs' time and developed
concept of real life TV show of spouse selection and subsequent reproduction
of the same in the format of proposed TV show by the defendants titled Shubh
Vivah amounts to infringement of plaintiffs' copyright. It was contended that
when plaintiff has submitted its programme proposal for consideration, the
same was done on the understanding that the broadcaster will either accept it
or reject it. Therefore, the defendants by using the said information imparted
to it in strict confidence by the plaintiff breached the confidence reposed by
the plaintiff in them. The essential confidential aspects of the plaintiff's
concept and programme which were not in public domain or common knowledge
according to counsel for the plaintiff are as follows :
(a) Reality TV - this in itself was unique because it had not happened before;
(b) Spouse selection, and not merely matchmaking (i.e. marriage, not just a
dating show).
(c) One person would have the power to select, not both.
(d) That it would be the woman deciding, which is a role reversal.
(e) Adoption of the name 'Swayamvar' for instant recall and recognition,
however with fundamental differences from the notion of a 'swayamvar' as
familiarized to the populace through epic like 'Ramayana' and 'Mahabharata'
namely - .
i) In these stories, swayamvar is confined only to 'raj samaj' or royalty.
ii) The selection of a 'var' was based on the fulfillment of a predetermined
task, such as an act of bravery, hence there was no 'choice' vested in the
woman in the strict sense.
12\. It was contended that by mis-appropriating the concept of the plaintiffs'
programme of Swayamvar and announcing of the making of the programme on
similar lines, the defendants have inflicted huge losses and damage to the
commercial potential of the plaintiffs programme by luring away potential
advertising sponsors. Plaintiff had contended that plaintiff has made out a
prima facie case for grant of injunction because if once plaintiff has
submitted a scenario or concept for TV reality show in case of breach of
confidence the defendants should be restrained from showing Shubh Vivah till
the plaintiffs launch their firstever reality show on Doordarshan. It was
contended that balance of convenience is also in favor of the plaintiffs and
if defendants are allowed to telecast their TV serials Shubh Vivah which has
been pirated from the concept developed by the plaintiff, it would amount to
robbing of plaintiff of its novelty. Mr.Sibal has contended that
novelty/originality in an idea can be derived from the application of human
ingenuity to well known concepts.
13\. He has further contended that novelty/originality may consist in a
significant twist or slant to a well-known concept, which takes it out of the
public realm. In support of his contention, Mr.Sibal has cited Talbott v.
General Television Corpn. (1981) RPC 1. Quoting the Law of Trade Secrets by
Robert Dean at page 115, Mr.Sibal contended that a self-evident solution for
some problem may be novel once it is recognised. The novelty is in recognising
the solution.
14\. It was further contended before me that for an idea/concept to be a
subject matter of confidential communication it must have at least some
attractiveness as a television programme and should be capable of being
realised in actuality. On the basis of aforesaid submissions, Mr.Sibal argued
that concept of Swayamvar as evolved by the plaintiff was capable of being
used for commercial exploitation as a reality show for match making on
television programme and, therefore, that confidential communication which the
plaintiff had given to the defendant has been breached by the defendant by
making Shubh Vivah a reality show based on match making, therefore injunction
be issued by this Court. Mr.Sibal has also contended that breach of trust or
confidence give a broader right then breach of copyright. Ideas and
information which has been acquired by the defendants under confidentiality
and if the defendant acts and makes a reality show on the basis of the concept
and format supplied by the plaintiff, in such circumstances it would be a
breach of good faith on the part of the defendant to exhibit or telecast any
show and defendants cannot take recourse of any pretext or excuse for doing so
and in such eventuality the Court may restrain the defendants by granting an
injunction. Mr.Sibal has contended that law of confidence deals with not only
written formats, it may be something which is given to other persons as oral
communications. To buttress his arguments Mr.Sibal has cited Copinger and
Skone James on Copyright at page 721/722.
15\. Another contention which has been urged before me by Mr.Sibal was that
there is no requirement that the idea should always be developed to its
fullest synopsis. He has contended that in certain cases the criteria is made
by a short unelaborated statement of an idea as in the present case the format
and concept was the only requirement of developing the reality show on
television and nothing else was required, no further details was to be given
and in support of his arguments, he has relied upon Fraser v. Thames
Television (1983) All ER 101. He has contended that there is no force in the
arguments of the defendant that as the concept was disclosed to defendants and
other producers that disclosure comes under public domain. Mr.Sibal has
contended that disclosure of some information cannot be defeated by the plea
that there were other people in the world who knew the concept or the format
about the reality show besides the defendants and in support of his arguments,
he placed reliance on Franchi v. Franchi 1967 RPC 149. Learned counsel then
contended that springboard doctrine will come into play as the concept of
Swayamvar as a TV reality show is the result of the work done by the plaintiff
as he has used his brain and thus produced a result which can only be produced
by somebody who goes through the same process. He placed reliance on Saltman
Engg. v. Campbell Engg. (1948) 65 RPC 203 and contended that defendant cannot
be unjustly enriched on the basis of the concept evolved by the plaintiff as
the defendant must be placed under special disability in the field of
competition to ensure that he does not get an unfair start. He placed reliance
on Terrapin v. Builders Supply Co. 1967 RPC 375. Mr.Sibal then contended that
the defendant has obtained information in confidence and they cannot be
allowed to use it as a springboard for activities detrimental to the plaintiff
who first conceived, evolved, presented and made the format and the concept of
first reality show of Swayamvar and cited Seager v. Copydex Ltd. (1967) RPC
349. Mr.Sibal then contended that if the confidential information is going to
be used in competition with the plaintiff, the same is not merely a matter of
compensation in terms of money and damages alone are not adequate remedy and,
therefore, on that score the defendants be restrained from showing Shubh Vivah
based on the concept and format of the plaintiff.
16\. On the other hand, Mr.Ashok Desai, learned senior counsel for the
defendants has contended that the concept of Swayamvar was in public domain.
It was further contended that if the concept was registered as a copyright, no
injunction can be granted as after submission of the concept to the copyright
authorities the same was in public domain. It was further contended that there
is no averment in the plaint that whatever was narrated to the defendants was
confidential. It was contended that inconsistent stand has been taken by the
plaintiff. It was contended that what was given to the defendants was a very
vague and rough preliminary note which neither can amount to any work nor
original work and certainly no presentation was given to the defendants. It
was contended by learned counsel for the defendants that onus was on the
plaintiff to have identified that whatever information was supplied to the
defendants was confidential. The onus is again on the plaintiff to prove that
defendants were guilty of breach of confidentiality. It was further contended
that it was for the plaintiff to prove that on account of unauthorised use of
that information the plaintiff has suffered some losses or the said
information was to the detriment of the plaintiff. Vociferous plea was raised
by the defendants that there was no originality in the concept of the
plaintiff. In any event of the matter it was contended before me by the
defendant that first meeting took place in 1998, later on the same concept was
given to the Doordarshan. Therefore, the plaintiff cannot be allowed to
monopolise the concept which is in public domain. It was further contended
that the plaintiff has not come to this Court at the earliest opportunity as
the plaintiff has came to know that the defendant was going to start their own
TV reality show Shubh Vivah in May, 2001 and they filed the present suit only
in September, 2001. Mr. Desai has further contended that no copyright exist in
a subject matter or theme of historical or mythological belief. Mr. Desai also
contended that plaintiff cannot claim any copyright in an idea. What was
contended before me by Mr. Desai was that plaintiff had only a vague idea of
treating the concept and there cannot be any copyright in said vague idea. In
support of his contention, he has relied on R.G. Anand v. M/s Delux Films &
Others , Supreme Court observed as under :
"Thus, on a careful consideration and elucidation of the various authorities
and the case law on the subject discussed above, the following propositions
emerge:
1\. There can be no copyright in an idea, subject matter, themes, plots or
historical or legendary facts and violation of the copyright in such cases is
confined to the form, manner and arrangement and expression of the idea by the
author of the copyrighted work. 2. Where the same idea is being developed in a
different manner, it is manifest that the source being common, similarities
are bound to occur. In such a case the courts should determine whether or not
the similarities are on fundamental or substantial aspects of the mode of
expression adopted in the copyrighted work. If the defendant's work is nothing
but a literal imitation of the copy-righted work with some variations here and
there it would amount to violation of the copyright. In other words, in order
to be actionable the copy must be a substantial and material one which at once
leads to the conclusion that the defendant is guilty of an act of piracy.
3\. One of the surest and the safest test to determine whether or not there
has been a violation of copyright is to see if the reader, spectator or the
viewer after having read or seen both the works is clearly of the opinion and
gets an unmistakable impression that the subsequent work appears to be a copy
of the original.
4\. Where the theme is the same but is presented and treated differently so
that the subsequent work becomes a completely new work, no question of
violation of copyright arises.
5\. Where however apart from the similarities appearing in the two works there
are also material and broad dissimilarities which negative the intention to
copy the original and the coincidences appearing in the two works are clearly
incidental no infringement of the copyright comes into existence.
6\. As a violation of copyright amounts to an act of piracy it must be proved
by clear and cogent evidence after applying the various tests laid down by the
case-law discussed above.
7\. Where however the question is of the violation of the copyright of stage
play by a film producer or a director the task of the plaintiff becomes more
difficult to prove piracy. It is manifest that unlike a stage play a film has
a much broader prospective, wider field and a bigger background where the
defendants can by introducing a variety of incidents give a colour and
complexion different from the manner in which the copyrighted work has
expressed the idea. Even so, if the viewer after seeing the film gets a
totality of impression that the film is by and large a copy of the original
play, violation of the copyright may be said to be proved."
17\. It was contended by Mr. Desai that in the written statement in para 9, it
has been contended by the defendants that concept note was not a confidential
document and there was no confidentiality in such disclosure as per usual
practice in the industry. It was contended by Mr. Desai that in para 16 of the
written statement, the defendant has taken the plea that the concept was only
a bare first draft and no detailed programme or concept at any point of time
was given or disclosed to the defendants. Mr. Desai took pain to state that
the defendants programme does not have the following primary characteristics
as alleged by the plaintiff :
1\. Providing a platform to young women to choose a spouse from a short list
of potential suitors.
2\. Involvement of parents of the girl and suitors.
3\. Enabling selection of spouse through various devices.
4\. Rewarding the couple after Swayamvar is concluded.
5\. Selection process through matrimonial bureau, etc.
6\. Empowerment of women through giving her power of selection.
7\. Giving of gifts to the engaged couple as 'Streedhan'.
18\. It was further contended that a studio based reality TV show on the
subject matter of match making, mediation by a celebrity anchor woman cannot
be called unique or novel by any stretch of imagination. It was contended that
confidentiality and communication cannot hold water if the same are under
public domain.
19\. It was further contended by Mr. Desai that as stated in para 14 and 15 of
the plaint, no concept note was sent by the plaintiff along with the letter
dated 20.10.2000. What was contended before me by learned counsel for the
defendants is that a communication was sent by the plaintiff to present five
sets of concepts in which Swayamvar was at serial no.4. However, pages 78, 79
and 80 were not sent to the defendant. It was contended by Mr. Desai that even
the notice dated 13.8.2001 sent by the lawyers of the plaintiff did not
mention about the meetings of 31st August, 1998 or handing over the concept
note in the said meeting. It was contended by Mr. Desai that even if one sees
Annexure A along with letter dated 28.10.2000, the concept note was for
Doordarshan and not for the defendants. Pointing out inconsistency in the
stand of the plaintiff in the plaint it was argued that it was contended that
concept was developed by the plaintiff in 1998 as the plaintiff could not
travel to Mumbai for presentation in end July, 1998, however, from the
affidavit filed by Sanjoy Roy (which is at page 213), Sanjoy Roy has nowhere
stated in the affidavit that he developed the concept till 2000.
20\. It was further contended that even prior to 1996, there were several
shows in existence outside India having similar theme of matchmaking on TV
such as in the United Kingdom: 'Mr. & Mrs.', broadcast on ATV between 1964 and
1988, and broadcast on UK during the 1990's; 'Love at First Sight' broadcast
on Sky since 1990; 'Blind Date' broadcast on ITV since 1995, amongst others
and even otherwise, the process of selecting groom from a variety of suitors
is a traditional concept, rooted in Indian tradition, mythology and there was
nothing novel or unique about it. As a matter of fact, defendant denied that
in the meeting in August, 1998, Sanjoy Roy was present.
21\. Mr. Desai contended that in the affidavit filed by Mrs.Urmila Gupta, wife
of plaintiff no.1 (in para 7 at page 41 of the paper-book), it has been
contended that the husband of Urmila Gupta does not have enough fund to
develop the concept Swayamvar. Therefore, to say that the concept was
developed and handed over in August, 1998 to the defendant was contrary to the
affidavit filed by Urmila Gupta.
22\. It was contended by Mr. Desai that as the concept was disclosed to others
and that amounts disclosure made by the plaintiff to the world, now it is not
possible for plaintiff to get an injunction restraining the defendants from
disclosing what was in common knowledge and in support of his contention, he
has relied upon O. Mustad & Son v. Dosen & Anr. 1963 Reports of Patent, Design
& Trade Mark Cases 41 as well as Franchi and Ors. v. Franchi and others 1967
RPC 149. It was further contended before me by Mr. Desai that plaintiff has
miserably failed to state as to what was the information which the plaintiff
relied to be confidential and in what way it was handed over in confidence to
the defendant. Plaintiff has also failed to prima facie show that the
information which was supplied to the defendants was to be treated as
confidential and the same was disclosed or the said information was used for
making Shubh Vivah. In support of his contention, Mr. Desai has cited CMI-
Centre for Medical Innovation GMBH and Anr. v. Phytopharma PLC Fleet Street
Reports (1999) 235. Distinguishing the case of Talbott v. General Television
(supra) cited by counsel for the plaintiff, Mr. Desai contended that in that
case pilot script was sent to the defendant, whereas in the present case no
pilot script was sent to the defendant. It was further contended that the
prayer for grant of interlocutory injunction cannot be granted by this Court
as the very existence of the legal right asserted by the plaintiff and its
alleged violation are both contested and uncertain till they are established
at the trial on evidence and in support of his contention, he has relied upon
Wander Ltd. & Anr. v. Antox India P. Ltd. 1990 (Supp) SCC 727, where Supreme
court observed as under :
"The interlocutory remedy is intended to preserve in status quo, the rights of
parties which may appear on a prima facie case. The court also in restraining
a defendant from exercising what he considers his legal right but what the
plaintiff would like to be prevented, puts into the scales, as a relevant
consideration whether the defendant has yet to commence his enterprise or
whether he has already been doing so in which latter case considerations
somewhat different from those that apply to a case where the defendant is yet
to commence his enterprise, are attracted."
23\. It was contended that defendants have made many episodes whereas the
plaintiff has yet to commence making any episode and, therefore, interlocutory
injunction cannot be granted against the defendants and in this connection he
has cited Colgate Palmolive (India) Ltd. v. Hindustan Lever Ltd. . Mr. Desai
also contended that the Court has to take into consideration that when breach
of confidence is alleged and an action has been brought, in such a case the
Court has to see that the same is not to oppress and harass the competitors
and, therefore, full and proper particular of all the confidential information
as to when and to whom was given and in the absence of pleadings in the
plaint, Court may not grant an interlocutory injunction against the defendants
and in support of his contention, he has cited Ocular Sciences Ltd. & Anr. Vs.
Aspect Vision Care Ltd. & Ors. (1997) RPC 289.
"The rules relating to the particularity of pleadings apply to breach of
confidence actions as they apply to all other proceedings. But it is well
recognised that breach of confidence actions can be used to oppress and harass
competitors and ex-employees. The courts are therefore careful to ensure that
the plaintiff gives full and proper particulars of all the confidential
information on which he intends to rely in the proceedings. If the plaintiff
fails to do this the court may infer that the purpose of the litigation is
harassment rather than the protection of the plaintiff's rights and may strike
out the action as an abuse of process. ."
24\. On the basis of aforesaid arguments it was contended by Mr. Desai that no
injunction be granted in favor of the plaintiff.
25\. I have given my careful consideration to the arguments advanced by
learned counsel for the parties. At this stage, the question for consideration
before me is as to whether the idea conceived by the plaintiffs of producing a
reality TV programme is a novel concept and same could be protected. Secondly
whatever information, concept or presentation imparted by the plaintiff to the
defendant was confidential. Thirdly, whether the defendant may be permitted to
launch its proposed TV programme Shubh Vivaah which is allegedly based on the
concept of swayamvar conceived by the plaintiff and if I agree with the above
submission of the plaintiff what kind of injunction plaintiff is entitled to.
26\. Apart from the pleadings, the meetings as claimed by the plaintiff in its
plaint, dated July, 1998, 10.11.2000 and 30.10.2000 have not been denied by
the defendants. It was also not denied that a theme of a programme proposed by
the plaintiff was revealed to the defendant in the meeting held in July, 1998
as would be borne out from the reply of the legal notice by counsel for the
defendants (which is at page 100 of part II file). In the same paragraph
counsel for the defendant has also conceded that a formal representation was
also made by the plaintiff in November, 2000. As a matter of fact, by way of
para 4 of the said reply what plaintiff was made to understand was that the
Shubh Vivaah to be launched by the defendants was not going to be anything
like Swayamvar which was conceived by the plaintiff. The stand of the
defendant is that they have developed their own concept, format of an
independent programme titled Shubh Vivaah which was traced from the concept of
ancient Indian concept of Swayamvar and the defendants have not taken or used
any of theme, concept, thoughts and writing of the plaintiff.
27\. In the modern day, when the small screen has taken over the earlier means
of mass communication like radio, idea/concept/script of a broadcaster has
wider potentiality of capitalising revenue and if that idea/concept or script
is not protected then in a given case, a person who has conceived an idea to
be translated into the reality TV show which could be key to its success with
audience then channels with their enormous resources could always be in a
better position to take the idea/theme/concept from any author and then
develop at their own end and the original author of the concept will be left
high and dry. In appropriate cases interlocutory injunction may be issued
restraining such breach of confidentiality of the theme, concept or scripts
otherwise it would be catastrophic for the television industry. One has to
bear in mind that persons who create an idea/ concept or theme which is
original, laws must ensure that such like people are rewarded for their
labour. A concept for reality show on television was given to the company,
which in this case is the defendants. Creator provides raw material to the
entertainment industry, themes or concepts originates from the person who has
conceived the same, protection is vital for the functioning of the industry.
Otherwise authors of the ideas who are individuals, their ideas can be taken
by the broadcasting companies or channels owning companies and the persons who
has conceived the same, would be robbed of its labour. But at this stage, I
have to find out from the records as to what is the admitted case of the
parties as evidence has not been led and the suit is at preliminary stage.
28\. From the admitted pleadings of the parties, the following meetings took
place between the parties :
1\. Meeting of July, 1998.
2\. Meeting of 31st August, 1998.
3\. Meeting of 30th October, 2000
4\. Meeting/presentation of 10th November, 2000
5\. Meeting of 23rd & 24th May, 2001
29\. An idea per se has no copyright. But if the idea is developed into a
concept fledged with adequate details, then the same is capable of
registration under the Copyright Act. The novelty and innovation of the
concept of the plaintiff resides in combing of a reality TV show with a
subject like match making for the purpose of marriage. The Swayamvar quoted in
Indian mythology was not a routine practice. In mythology, we have come across
broadly understood only two swayamvars, one in Mahabharat where the choice was
not left on the bride but on the act of chivalry to be performed by any prince
and whosoever succeeded in such performance got the hand of Draupdi.
Similarly, in Ramayana choice was not left to the bride but again on
performance of chivalrous act by a prince who could break the mighty Dhanusha
(bow). Therefore, originality lies in the concept of plaintiff by conceiving a
reality TV programme of match making and spouse selection by transposing
mythological swayamvar to give prerogative to woman to select a groom from
variety of suitors and making it presentable to audience and to explore it for
commercial marketing. Therefore, the very concept of matchmaking in view of
concept of the plaintiff giving choice to the bride was a novel concept in
original thought capable of being protected.
30\. The concept note was given to the defendant on 31st August, 1998 prior to
which the defendants have admitted receipt of a summary/concept note of
swayamvar at the meeting in July, 1998. It was also admitted that the
presentation was made on 10th November, 2000. If the concept, format and
structure which were the key elements of the plaintiff's proposal, the same
has been received by the defendant, it cannot be said that defendants were not
aware of the salient feature of the concept and the format of the plaintiffs
match making TV reality show. There is no denying of the fact that from July,
1998 to April-May, 2001, the concept of the plaintiff was discussed and was
under consideration by the defendants and, therefore, if the defendants have
gone public on their proposed launch of the programme Shubh Vivaah and if the
same is based on the concept of swayamvar, defendants cannot be permitted to
reap the fruit of the labour put in by the plaintiff. In television industry,
it matters as to who has gone first, once the reality show is televised on the
television, the same comes within the purview of public domain and anybody
else can take up the same concept and launch their own television programme.
Curiously, in the affidavit filed by defendant no.1 on behalf of defendants 1
to 4, the defendant has taken inconsistent stand. Whereas in para 98 at page
140 of part II file, it has been mentioned that Raveena Kohli was not present
at the meeting on 31st August, 2000 as alleged by the plaintiff, however
careful reading of para 10 of the same affidavit would show that presence of
Raveena Kohli in the said meeting was admitted by the defendants. From the
perusal of the para 9 of the said affidavit of the defendants, even the
delivery of concept note has been admitted. What has been denied was that the
concept note was not intended to be a confidential document. As a matter of
fact, the stand taken by the defendant that no concept of the treatment of
programme reality show Swayamvar was given, is contrary to the documents filed
on record. There are two documents (at page 81 - 82 of part II file) sent via
Fax/Email, which are to the following effect. The same has not been denied by
the defendants:
"Via Fax/Email 6th November, 2000 Ms.Rekha Nigam Sr.Vice President (Production
& Programming) Sony Entertainment Television India Ltd.
23, Shah Indl. Estate, Andheri (W) Mumbai Dear Rekha, It was a great pleasure
to have met you along with Kunal on Monday 30th October.
I am enclosing a copy of my letter to Kunal regarding the presentation on
'Swayamvar', which we will be making on 4 p.m. on Friday 10th November.
In case, you would like any inputs on some of the other concepts too, please
let us know at the following fax and email."
We look forward to meeting you and the team.
Thanking you, With regards, Yours sincerely, Sd/-
Anil Gupta"
"Via Fax/Email 6th November, 2000 Mr.Kunal Das Gupta, C.E.O.
Sony Entertainment Television India Ltd.
23, Shah Indl. Estate, Andheri (W) Mumbai Dear Kunal, I would like to thank
you for meeting Vinod Khanna, Urmila, Samir and myself at your office on
Monday 30th October, 2000 along with Rekha Nigam.
As discussed at the meeting and later confirmed by your office, we shall be
making a presentation on the updated concept and treatment of the programme
'Swayamvar', which, I had discussed with you over a year back with Sanjoy Roy
of Teamwork Films.
I have since then fine-tuned the concept incorporating elements we feel, have
great potential. Please let me know at the following fax and email if you need
any other inputs for the presentation which we will make on Power Point.
We look forward to meeting you and your team on Friday, November 10th at 4
p.m. With regards, Yours sincerely, Sd/-
Anil Gupta"
31\. In the affidavit filed by defendants none of these letters have been
denied. What was argued was that full format and structure was not given. Even
if I assume that typed copy of the note was not received by the defendants,
the defendants had shown power point presentation in November, 2000 and same
has been admitted by the defendants.
32\. In Fraser v. Thames Television (supra) it was observed by the Court :
"I accept that to be capable of protection the idea must be sufficiently
developed, so that it would be seen to be a concept which has at least some
attentiveness for a television programme and which is capable of being
realised as an actuality. But I do not think this requirement necessitates in
every case a full synopsis. In some cases the nature of the idea may require
extensive development of this kind in order to meet the criteria. But in
others the criteria may be met by a short unelaborated statement of an idea.
In Talbot's case itself I do not think the detailed submission added very much
of substance to the idea which is set out in one sentence."
33\. When an idea or concept has been developed to a stage that it could be
seen to be a concept which has some attractiveness so as to get an audience on
a television programme and could be realised as an actuality then the concept
is capable of being the subject of confidential communication.
34\. Now let me deal with another submission of Mr. Desai that even if we
assume that there was a concept developed by the plaintiff, the same was in
public domain. In Talbott v. General Television Corpn. (supra) it was held :
"I am satisfied that what was called the "commercial twist", or the particular
slant, of the plaintiff's concept (or idea) does give it a quality which takes
it out of the realm of public knowledge.
In my opinion, the situation then (i.e. on 7 October 1976) was that the
plaintiff had "a saleable proposition" which had as its kernel the valuable
concept of a programme which had the intent of exposing the lives of
successful people. In my opinion, not only was the text of the submission made
available in confidence, but the kernel of the concept, whether it was
conveyed in writing or orally, was also made available in confidence."
35\. The Law of Trade Secrets by Robert Dean take into consideration that the
word 'novel' is sometimes used simply to mean previously unknown but its more
common meaning is that of inventiveness, or that of the information is unique,
akin to 'manner of manufacture'. Whether it is described as originality or
novelty or ingenuity or otherwise, there must be some product of the human
brain which suffices to confer a confidential nature upon the information. The
novelty is in recognising the solution.
36\. In Fraser v. Thames Television (supra), it was held :
". But I do not think this requirement necessitates in every case a full
synopsis. In some cases the nature of the idea may require extensive
development of this kind in order to meet the criteria. But in others the
criteria may be met by a short unelaborated statement of an idea."
37\. I do not find any force in the arguments advanced by the defendants that
as the concept note was also given to Doordarshan, they were not under the
obligation to maintain confidentiality or the concept note having been given
to other prospective broadcasters, the defendants was under no obligation to
treat the same in confidentiality. In Franchi and Ors. v. Franchi and others
(supra) it was held :
"Clearly a claim that the disclosure of some information would be a breach of
confidence is not to be defeated simply by proving that there are other people
in the world who know the facts in question besides the man as to whom it is
said that his disclosure would be a breach of confidence and those to whom he
has disclosed them."
38\. The concept developed and evolved by the plaintiff is the result of the
work done by the plaintiff upon material which may be available for the use of
anybody but what makes it confidential is the fact that the plaintiff has used
his brain and thus produced a result in the shape of a concept and if
defendant is allowed to show their own reality show based on the concept
originally conceived by the plaintiff, it will be allowing the defendant to
use that concept and to reap the fruit of the labour of the plaintiff. In such
kind of cases the defendant must be placed under special disability in the
field of competition to ensure that he does not get an unfair start.
39\. In Terrapin v. Builders Supply Co. (supra) it was held :
"As I understand it, the essence of this branch of the law, whatever the
origin of it may be, is that a person who has obtained information in
confidence is not allowed to use it as a spring-board for activities
detrimental to the person who made the confidential communication, and spring-
board it remains even when all the features have been published or can be
ascertained by actual inspection by any member of the public. The brochures
are certainly not equivalent to the publication of the plans, specifications,
other technical and know-how. The dismantling of a unit might enable a person
to proceed without plans or specifications, or other technical information,
but not, I think, without some of the know-how, and certainly not without
taking the trouble to dismantle. I think it is broadly true to say that a
member of the public to whom the confidential information had not been
imparted would still have to prepare plans and specifications. He would
probably have to construct a prototype and he would certainly have to conduct
tests. Therefore, the possessor of the confidential information still has a
long start over any member of the public. The design may be as important as
the features. It is, in my view, inherent in the principle upon which the
Saltman case rests that the possessor of such information must be placed under
a special disability in the field of competition, in order to ensure that he
does not get an unfair start; or in other words, to preclude the tactics which
the first defendants and the third defendants and the managing director of
both of those companies employed in this case."
40\. I also find force in the arguments of counsel for the plaintiff that if
the said confidential information is going to be used in competition with the
plaintiff, it is not merely a matter of compensation in terms of money.
41\. Therefore, when the meetings took place in July, 1998, 31st August, 1998
where the concept of swayamvar was given and the meeting of 30th October, 2000
and the power presentation by the plaintiff on 10th November, 2000 it cannot
be said that the concept with its format was not in the knowledge of the
defendants and if the same was in the knowledge of the defendants, the
defendants were under no obligation to treat the same with confidentiality.
The stand taken by the defendant that it was Rekha Nigam who also has prepared
her own idea of match-making show as per para 59 of the affidavit of the
defendant, raises a strong inference that the second concept was derived from
the first. Prior to filing of the affidavit in this case by the defendant
which was filed on 31st October, 2001, there is nothing on record to show that
Rekha Nigam had already prepared her own idea of matchmaking show. To my mind
this simply is an afterthought. It was also somewhere in middle of 2001, the
defendants started the idea of having their own reality TV show. It cannot be
said that the idea and the concept and the structure of matchmaking was in
public domain as was contended before me by learned counsel for the
defendants. Nothing was filed on record as to what were the serials 'Mr. &
Mrs.', 'Love at First Sight', 'Blind Date' broadcasted in 1964, 1988 and
1990s, by the defendants.
42\. In R.G. Anand v. M/s Delux Films & Others (supra) it was observed by the
Supreme Court:
43\. Where the same idea is being developed in a different manner, it is
manifest that the source being common, similarities are bound to occur. In
such a case the courts should determine whether or not the similarities are on
fundamental or substantial aspects of the mode of expression adopted in the
copyrighted work. If the defendant's work is nothing but a literal imitation
of the copy-righted work with some variations here and there it would amount
to violation of the copyright. In other words, in order to be actionable the
copy must be a substantial and material one which at once leads to the
conclusion that the defendant is guilty of an act of piracy.
44\. From the bare reading of parameters laid down by the Supreme Court it is
evident that when the idea is developed and even if there are similarities,
substantial fundamental aspect of the mode of expression adopted in the
copyright work and the defendants work is literal imitation to the copyright
work with some variations, it would amount to violation of the copyright.
Although the stand of the defendants before me is that they do not want to
disclose as to what is the concept and the format and the structure of Shubh
Vivaah, the TV reality show which they are planning to televised and of which
several episodes have been shot.
45\. With the rejoinder, the plaintiff has filed Annexure UG 15, wherein it
has been reported :
".this show is scheduled to go on air in October. Shubh Vivah which marks
Madhuri Dixit's TV debut, will usher on to Indian television the first-ever
reality TV show.
A cutting edge programme, Shubh Vivaah will bring together prospective brides
and grooms. Madhuri will play cupid/ match-maker, she will discuss what each
participant is looking for in a life partner, their family backgrounds
interests, etc. which will enable the host to introduce them to the right
partners. If they click, wedding bells will follow."
46\. Similarly in the same material, the plaintiff has placed Indian
Television Report, which is as under :
"Sony is not talking - the UTV-produced show has prospective brides and grooms
being introduced to each other. They discuss their backgrounds, their
families, what they are interested in and what they look for in a marriage
partner. If a couple hit it off they will actually get married. Off the show,
that is."
47\. Besides this the plaintiff has filed his own affidavit as well as the
affidavits of Mrs.Urmila Gupta, Sanjoy Roy where it has been stated that the
key elements of the format of the defendants' programme Shubh Vivaah are as
under :-
1\. applicants for the show send in their photos and CVs and personal
information like their preferences, likes, dislikes, etc.
2\. the applicants are then short-listed.
3\. each segments has one girl who has to choose from five boys
4\. she asks a few questions which are posed to the five boys
5\. their answers are shown to the girl and she short-lists three of them
6\. she and her family then meet the three boys and their families
7\. interaction happens and the girl shortlists one boy
8\. girl and boy then meet and interact and take a decision to marry or not
9\. if they marry within a year, they are sponsored a honeymoon and are given
prizes
48\. Defendants have not controverter the aforesaid affidavits. The affidavit
was initially filed by the aforesaid persons. Affidavits in rebuttal of Rekha
Nigam, Raveena Raj Kohli who were working with the defendants, were not filed
in this court, which does not give credence, prima facie, to the defense taken
by the defendants.
49.In view of the discussions above when concept note as well as power
presentation was admitted to have been received by the defendants, it cannot
be said that the defendants were under no obligation to maintain
confidentiality. The argument of the defendants that once the concept was
registered under the Copyright Act the same came under public domain, cannot
be sustained in the eyes of law. As a matter of fact, when the concept is
registered, the same is protected from public domain. Therefore, the
defendants cannot be permitted to launch its proposed TV programme Shubh Vivah
if the same is based on the concept of Swayamvar conceived by the plaintiff.
It would have been easier for this Court if the salient features of Shubh
Vivah would have been disclosed by the defendants before this Court. What has
been disclosed before this Court by the defendants is that the defendants are
not providing a platform to young woman to choose spouse from a shortlist of
potential suitors, there is no involvement of parents of the girls and the
suitors, reward to the couple after swayamvar is concluded or involvement of
selection process through matrimonial bureau or giving of gifts to the engaged
couples as streedhan. What is important to note is that Shubh Vivah is based
on thrill of matchmaking about real life situation. Shubh Vivah based on
concept of spouse selection in any form as a reality TV show cannot be
permitted as that has been conceived by the plaintiff at the first instance.
To depict match making in the form of a reality TV show or spouse selection,
is the theme of the concept. How it is done, who plays as anchor person, gifts
are given or not, may be the various elements which may differ but if Shubh
Vivah is based on match making process to be televised on the TV as a real
life drama, defendants cannot reap the fruits of labour put in by the
plaintiff in this regard.
50\. Lastly, what kind of injunction the plaintiffs are entitled to.
Plaintiffs cannot get an injunction in perpetuity in the concept. Plaintiff
can also not get an injunction till the decision of the suit because if the
plaintiffs are entitled to transmit their programme Swayamvar on the
television after televising the same, the concept will be in public domain.
51\. The plaintiff has prima facie proved that the defendants were aware of
the concept of swayamvar and if injunction is not granted then the defendants
will launch its own TV serial Shubh Vivah which will also televise match
making and if that is permitted, it will be giving premium to the defendants
and robbing of the plaintiff of his work. Balance of convenience is also in
favor of grant of injunction and if injunction is not granted, the injury
sustained by the plaintiffs, may be difficult to be measured in terms of
money.
52\. Therefore, I restrain the defendants, theirs agents from transmitting or
enabling the transmission by television of the programme entitled 'Shubh
Vivah' or any other programme or transmission whatsoever having its subject or
theme of match making for a period of four months from the date of the order.
If the plaintiffs are not in a position to transmit on television its
programme entitled 'Swayamvar' within a period of four months, defendants
shall be at liberty to transmit its programme Shubh Vivah after expiry of four
months. In case the plaintiff launches its programme 'Swayamvar' within a
period of four months from the date of the order, the defendants are further
restrained from transmitting or showing or exhibiting or televising its
programme 'Shubh Vivah' or any other programme having its subject or theme of
match making for a further period of two months. This further period of two
months is given so that the plaintiffs will have a head start by televising
its episodes for two months. Nothing said in this order shall be an expression
of opinion on the merit of the case.
53\. Application is disposed of accordingly. Suit 1970/2001 .
54\. List this matter for further proceedings before appropriate Court
according to Roster on 22.3.2002.
1\. Plaintiff no.1 is a media consultant, plaintiff no.2 is a company duly
incorporated under the Companies Act, defendant no.1 is the Chief Executive
Officer of defendant no.2-Soni Entertainment Television, defendant no.3 is a
company incorporated under the laws of Singapore, which is the principal
holding company of defendant no.2, defendant no.4-UTV Ltd. is a television
production house having its regd. office at Mumbai.
55\. It has been claimed that plaintiff has got very good reputation in his
field of activities and has introduced commercial sponsored programme of
Doordarshan and has been associated with serials such as 'Buniyad', 'Rajni'
etc. and the first telefilm 'Janam'. He has been the founder member and
convener of the Indian Broadcasters Association. The plaintiff set up a
company in the year 1995 called 'A to Z Entertainment Pvt. Ltd.', which was
later renamed as 'Taal India Communications Pvt. Ltd.'- plaintiff no.2.
56\. It is the case of the plaintiff that in the year 1996, plaintiff
conceived the idea of producing a reality television programme containing the
process of match making to the point of actual spouse selection in which real
everyday ordinary persons would participate before a TV audience. Mr.Sibal,
learned senior counsel for the plaintiffs has contended that plaintiff devised
a unique and novel concept for a TV show in which it would be the prerogative
of a woman to select a groom from a variety of suitors. The plaintiff decided
to name the concept 'Swayamvar' knowing that a large number of people would
associate the name with the idea of a woman selecting a groom in a public fora
and that would create the necessary instantaneous recall and recognition of
mythological swayamvar in the minds of a large number of people and give the
program a head-start. The aforesaid concept titled 'Swayamvar' was disclosed
in early 1997 by the plaintiff to his wife and one Mr.K. Chandrasekhar.
Plaintiff applied for registration after developing the concept as a literary
work under the Copyright Act. The work was registered and a certificate was
issued in favor of the plaintiff on 17th December, 1997. Some of the essential
elements of the programme as contained in the copyright concept note was to
the following effect :
1\. A real life entertainment program about a real life situation.
2\. A half-hour long, proposed studio-based television show, also flexible
enough and capable of being shot outdoors for longer stretches of time.
3\. Providing the thrill of matchmaking.
4\. Specifically, providing a platform for marriageable girls to select a
spouse from an array of suitors.
5\. Parents of the girl and suitors to be associated with the entire process.
6\. The participating eligible men to be selected/short-listed by the
producers prior to the show.
7\. Producers will ensure that there is no duplicity or foul play.
8\. Mediation by a mature, articulate, vibrant anchorwoman.
9\. Empowerment of women by promoting secular and progressive spouse
selection.
57\. Plaintiff no.1 disclosed this concept to one Sanjoy Roy in 1997 to
involve his production house called Teamwork Films Pvt. Ltd.
58\. It is the case of the plaintiff that in May/June, 1998, the plaintiff
spoke to defendant no.1 and plaintiff along with his son Samir Gupta went to
see defendant no.1 in Mumbai and gave one page concept note of Swayamvar to
the defendant, who gave an enthusiastic response to the idea of Swayamvar.
Defendant no.1 further asked the plaintiff to give a detailed presentation of
the same by end of July 1998. Mr.Sibal has contended that concept note given
by the plaintiff to said defendant at the said meeting was a disclosure in
utmost confidentiality which is the usual practice in the industry. The second
meeting took place in defendant no.1's office with the plaintiff. Mr.Sanjoy
Roy, Ms.Manika Berry, Samir Gupta were also present in the meeting. In that
meeting defendant no.1 asked Ms.Raveena Raj Kohli, then head of programming of
defendant to join them. (There is some dispute with regard to the presence of
Ms.Raveena Raj Kohli with which I will deal later.) The plaintiff team
described the concept of Swayamvar, highlighting its salient attractions as
world's first unique real life entertainment television series, that would be
studio based with video snapshots used for introduction. The concept contained
selection of a spouse by a woman from ardent suitors conforming to certain
criteria to be specified by the woman, shortlisting of potential grooms and
parents would be involved in the process. The programme would create a family
oriented, sensitive entertainment and would be mediated by a vibrant, mature,
articulate, anchorwoman. It has been averred in the plaint that the plaintiff
informed the defendant that he had registered his concept and the same was
copyrighted. On that day, the plaintiff further elaborated the programme
structure and format, divided into segments for easy implementation in the
presentation made to the defendants as follows :
1\. Specifically designed questionnaire to be distributed by producer and
channel to elicit all personal details with photos.
2\. Computerized matching of the data for selection of participants and audio-
visual clips of the participants.
3\. Exchanging candidate's personal details to help selection and short-
listing for the show. 4. Set to reflect images and symbols of marriage
celebration. 5. Help of astrologers, marriage counsellors, psychologists, etc.
in the selection process in the studio.
6\. Anchor to talk about marriage and roles played by man and woman.
7\. Marriage related games and rituals to be included.
59\. It was contended by Mr.Sibal that when the plaintiff conceived the idea
of Swayamvar, reality television show in match making in spouse selection as
such had not appeared on television anywhere in the world. Therefore, the
concept of a real life reality television show revolving around marriages and
matchmaking was first of its kind as there was no known precedent. It is the
case of the plaintiff that the plaintiff also approached Doordarshan about the
real life reality TV show revolving around marriages in early 2000. It is the
case of the plaintiff that another meeting was fixed for 30th October, 2000 at
the defendants' office at Mumbai where plaintiff went with Mrs.Urmila Gupta,
his wife, Samir Gupta, his son and Mr.Vinod Khanna and on the defendants' side
defendant no.1 and their newly appointed head of programming Ms.Rekha Nigam
were present. In the said meeting, plaintiff handed over to defendant a letter
dated 28th October, 2000 which contained proposal for five programmes
including 'Swayamvar'. The said letter also accompanied a brief concept note
containing the essential details and proposed format of 'Swayamvar'. After the
said meeting defendants asked the plaintiff to give a detailed presentation at
the earliest.
60\. Another meeting was held on 10.11.2000 between defendants and Mrs.Urmila
Gupta, Samir Gupta, wife and son of the plaintiff, who gave a power-point
presentation to the large team of the executive of the defendants. The printed
version of the presentation and an internal discussion document dated
4.11.2000 which has been prepared by the plaintiff's said representatives were
also handed to the defendants officers after the presentation. It was
contended before me that the representative of the plaintiff also imparted
under strict condition of confidentiality and in good faith the following :
1\. Increase in show duration from half an hour to a one-hour format.
2\. Introduction of high value rewards, prizes, gifts, etc. in the form of
'Streedhan'.
3\. Creation of devices such as games and situations, rituals connected with
marriage, to heighten audience/viewer involvement and interest.
4\. Selection process using matrimonial bureaus, web sites, dial-in in
addition to direct applications. 5. Video tests and grooming of participants,
designer costumes, etc. in line with popular trends.
6\. Promotion and marketing of 'Swayamvar' as India's first ever reality TV
show.
7\. How to handle reservations of the potential participants including option
of opting out anytime during the show. 8. The show limited to the engagement.
Marriage at couple's convenience.
61\. It was contended that defendant by its e-mail dated 10.11.2000 sent by
Ms.Rekha Nigam after the presentation showed enthusiasm of the defendants
about plaintiff's proposal for Swayamvar as they had inter alia requested for
some more details on logistical timelines.
62\. It was the case of the plaintiff that plaintiff saw an article in the
financial Express, Mumbai Edition, dated 18.7.2001 titled 'Camera, Lights,
Shehnai!. SONY TV to play Matchmaker'. The said article informed that
defendant no.2 was due to launch a big budget reality show which would provide
a platform for matchmaking. The report indicated that it would be like a
Swayamvar or a marriage bureau on Television. It is the case of the plaintiff
that this article and other article which appear subsequently in the newspaper
as well as internet uncannily replicate the information confidentially
disclosed by the plaintiff to the defendants during their meetings and
presentations. When the plaintiff came to know in August, 2001 that defendant
no.2 is going to launch a TV reality show 'Shubh Vivah', plaintiff wrote a
letter dated 7.8.2001 to the defendant to clarify as to what this reality show
Shubh Vivah was and then a legal notice was sent to the defendant dated
13.8.2001. The defendant replied the said legal letter by stating that what
they are making was not a copy of Swayamvar and also took the stand that they
have made the plaintiff aware in their meeting held on 30.10.2000 that
defendants were in the process of producing a programme based on the same
theme.
63\. It was contended by Mr.Sibal that the copyright was for creative, unique
and novel TV reality programme to conduct a real life matchmaking show by
giving girls the opportunity, with mediation by an anchor person, to choose a
husband of their own choice from a line-up of the suitors in the presence of
parents in the studio. The plaintiff has sought copyright in developed
production of his concept and the format of his unique match making show which
was brought to the attention and domain of the defendants first in August,
1998 and again in October and November, 2000. It was contended that the
proposed TV programme of the defendants Shubh Vivah launched by defendant
according to Times of India, Delhi Edition dated 31.8.2001 gives the following
primary characteristics :
1\. A Studio based reality television show.
2\. On the subject of match making.
3\. Providing a platform to young women to choose a spouse from a short list
of potential suitors.
4\. Mediation by a celebrity anchorwoman.
5\. Involvement of parents of the girl and suitors.
6\. Enabling selection of spouse through various devices.
7\. Rewarding the couple after Swayamvar is concluded.
8\. Selection process through matrimonial bureau, etc.
9\. Empowerment of women through giving her power of selection.
10\. Giving of gifts to the engaged couple as 'Streedhan'.
64\. Mr.Sibal then contended that taking the plaintiffs' time and developed
concept of real life TV show of spouse selection and subsequent reproduction
of the same in the format of proposed TV show by the defendants titled Shubh
Vivah amounts to infringement of plaintiffs' copyright. It was contended that
when plaintiff has submitted its programme proposal for consideration, the
same was done on the understanding that the broadcaster will either accept it
or reject it. Therefore, the defendants by using the said information imparted
to it in strict confidence by the plaintiff breached the confidence reposed by
the plaintiff in them. The essential confidential aspects of the plaintiff's
concept and programme which were not in public domain or common knowledge
according to counsel for the plaintiff are as follows :
(a) Reality TV - this in itself was unique because it had not happened before;
(b) Spouse selection, and not merely matchmaking (i.e. marriage, not just a
dating show).
(c) One person would have the power to select, not both.
(d) That it would be the woman deciding, which is a role reversal.
(e) Adoption of the name 'Swayamvar' for instant recall and recognition,
however with fundamental differences from the notion of a 'swayamvar' as
familiarized to the populace through epic like 'Ramayana' and 'Mahabharata'
namely - .
i) In these stories, swayamvar is confined only to 'raj samaj' or royalty.
ii) The selection of a 'var' was based on the fulfillment of a predetermined
task, such as an act of bravery, hence there was no 'choice' vested in the
woman in the strict sense.
65\. It was contended that by mis-appropriating the concept of the plaintiffs'
programme of Swayamvar and announcing of the making of the programme on
similar lines, the defendants have inflicted huge losses and damage to the
commercial potential of the plaintiffs programme by luring away potential
advertising sponsors. Plaintiff had contended that plaintiff has made out a
prima facie case for grant of injunction because if once plaintiff has
submitted a scenario or concept for TV reality show in case of breach of
confidence the defendants should be restrained from showing Shubh Vivah till
the plaintiffs launch their firstever reality show on Doordarshan. It was
contended that balance of convenience is also in favor of the plaintiffs and
if defendants are allowed to telecast their TV serials Shubh Vivah which has
been pirated from the concept developed by the plaintiff, it would amount to
robbing of plaintiff of its novelty. Mr.Sibal has contended that
novelty/originality in an idea can be derived from the application of human
ingenuity to well known concepts.
66\. He has further contended that novelty/originality may consist in a
significant twist or slant to a well-known concept, which takes it out of the
public realm. In support of his contention, Mr.Sibal has cited Talbott v.
General Television Corpn. (1981) RPC 1. Quoting the Law of Trade Secrets by
Robert Dean at page 115, Mr.Sibal contended that a self-evident solution for
some problem may be novel once it is recognised. The novelty is in recognising
the solution.
67\. It was further contended before me that for an idea/concept to be a
subject matter of confidential communication it must have at least some
attractiveness as a television programme and should be capable of being
realised in actuality. On the basis of aforesaid submissions, Mr.Sibal argued
that concept of Swayamvar as evolved by the plaintiff was capable of being
used for commercial exploitation as a reality show for match making on
television programme and, therefore, that confidential communication which the
plaintiff had given to the defendant has been breached by the defendant by
making Shubh Vivah a reality show based on match making, therefore injunction
be issued by this Court. Mr.Sibal has also contended that breach of trust or
confidence give a broader right then breach of copyright. Ideas and
information which has been acquired by the defendants under confidentiality
and if the defendant acts and makes a reality show on the basis of the concept
and format supplied by the plaintiff, in such circumstances it would be a
breach of good faith on the part of the defendant to exhibit or telecast any
show and defendants cannot take recourse of any pretext or excuse for doing so
and in such eventuality the Court may restrain the defendants by granting an
injunction. Mr.Sibal has contended that law of confidence deals with not only
written formats, it may be something which is given to other persons as oral
communications. To buttress his arguments Mr.Sibal has cited Copinger and
Skone James on Copyright at page 721/722.
68\. Another contention which has been urged before me by Mr.Sibal was that
there is no requirement that the idea should always be developed to its
fullest synopsis. He has contended that in certain cases the criteria is made
by a short unelaborated statement of an idea as in the present case the format
and concept was the only requirement of developing the reality show on
television and nothing else was required, no further details was to be given
and in support of his arguments, he has relied upon Fraser v. Thames
Television (1983) All ER 101. He has contended that there is no force in the
arguments of the defendant that as the concept was disclosed to defendants and
other producers that disclosure comes under public domain. Mr.Sibal has
contended that disclosure of some information cannot be defeated by the plea
that there were other people in the world who knew the concept or the format
about the reality show besides the defendants and in support of his arguments,
he placed reliance on Franchi v. Franchi 1967 RPC 149. Learned counsel then
contended that springboard doctrine will come into play as the concept of
Swayamvar as a TV reality show is the result of the work done by the plaintiff
as he has used his brain and thus produced a result which can only be produced
by somebody who goes through the same process. He placed reliance on Saltman
Engg. v. Campbell Engg. (1948) 65 RPC 203 and contended that defendant cannot
be unjustly enriched on the basis of the concept evolved by the plaintiff as
the defendant must be placed under special disability in the field of
competition to ensure that he does not get an unfair start. He placed reliance
on Terrapin v. Builders Supply Co. 1967 RPC 375. Mr.Sibal then contended that
the defendant has obtained information in confidence and they cannot be
allowed to use it as a springboard for activities detrimental to the plaintiff
who first conceived, evolved, presented and made the format and the concept of
first reality show of Swayamvar and cited Seager v. Copydex Ltd. (1967) RPC
349. Mr.Sibal then contended that if the confidential information is going to
be used in competition with the plaintiff, the same is not merely a matter of
compensation in terms of money and damages alone are not adequate remedy and,
therefore, on that score the defendants be restrained from showing Shubh Vivah
based on the concept and format of the plaintiff.
69\. On the other hand, Mr.Ashok Desai, learned senior counsel for the
defendants has contended that the concept of Swayamvar was in public domain.
It was further contended that if the concept was registered as a copyright, no
injunction can be granted as after submission of the concept to the copyright
authorities the same was in public domain. It was further contended that there
is no averment in the plaint that whatever was narrated to the defendants was
confidential. It was contended that inconsistent stand has been taken by the
plaintiff. It was contended that what was given to the defendants was a very
vague and rough preliminary note which neither can amount to any work nor
original work and certainly no presentation was given to the defendants. It
was contended by learned counsel for the defendants that onus was on the
plaintiff to have identified that whatever information was supplied to the
defendants was confidential. The onus is again on the plaintiff to prove that
defendants were guilty of breach of confidentiality. It was further contended
that it was for the plaintiff to prove that on account of unauthorised use of
that information the plaintiff has suffered some losses or the said
information was to the detriment of the plaintiff. Vociferous plea was raised
by the defendants that there was no originality in the concept of the
plaintiff. In any event of the matter it was contended before me by the
defendant that first meeting took place in 1998, later on the same concept was
given to the Doordarshan. Therefore, the plaintiff cannot be allowed to
monopolise the concept which is in public domain. It was further contended
that the plaintiff has not come to this Court at the earliest opportunity as
the plaintiff has came to know that the defendant was going to start their own
TV reality show Shubh Vivah in May, 2001 and they filed the present suit only
in September, 2001. Mr. Desai has further contended that no copyright exist in
a subject matter or theme of historical or mythological belief. Mr. Desai also
contended that plaintiff cannot claim any copyright in an idea. What was
contended before me by Mr. Desai was that plaintiff had only a vague idea of
treating the concept and there cannot be any copyright in said vague idea. In
support of his contention, he has relied on R.G. Anand v. M/s Delux Films &
Others , Supreme Court observed as under :
"Thus, on a careful consideration and elucidation of the various authorities
and the case law on the subject discussed above, the following propositions
emerge:
1\. There can be no copyright in an idea, subject matter, themes, plots or
historical or legendary facts and violation of the copyright in such cases is
confined to the form, manner and arrangement and expression of the idea by the
author of the copyrighted work.
2\. Where the same idea is being developed in a different manner, it is
manifest that the source being common, similarities are bound to occur. In
such a case the courts should determine whether or not the similarities are on
fundamental or substantial aspects of the mode of expression adopted in the
copyrighted work. If the defendant's work is nothing but a literal imitation
of the copy-righted work with some variations here and there it would amount
to violation of the copyright. In other words, in order to be actionable the
copy must be a substantial and material one which at once leads to the
conclusion that the defendant is guilty of an act of piracy.
3\. One of the surest and the safest test to determine whether or not there
has been a violation of copyright is to see if the reader, spectator or the
viewer after having read or seen both the works is clearly of the opinion and
gets an unmistakable impression that the subsequent work appears to be a copy
of the original.
4\. Where the theme is the same but is presented and treated differently so
that the subsequent work becomes a completely new work, no question of
violation of copyright arises.
5\. Where however apart from the similarities appearing in the two works there
are also material and broad dissimilarities which negative the intention to
copy the original and the coincidences appearing in the two works are clearly
incidental no infringement of the copyright comes into existence.
6\. As a violation of copyright amounts to an act of piracy it must be proved
by clear and cogent evidence after applying the various tests laid down by the
case-law discussed above.
7\. Where however the question is of the violation of the copyright of stage
play by a film producer or a director the task of the plaintiff becomes more
difficult to prove piracy. It is manifest that unlike a stage play a film has
a much broader prospective, wider field and a bigger background where the
defendants can by introducing a variety of incidents give a colour and
complexion different from the manner in which the copyrighted work has
expressed the idea. Even so, if the viewer after seeing the film gets a
totality of impression that the film is by and large a copy of the original
play, violation of the copyright may be said to be proved."
70\. It was contended by Mr. Desai that in the written statement in para 9, it
has been contended by the defendants that concept note was not a confidential
document and there was no confidentiality in such disclosure as per usual
practice in the industry. It was contended by Mr. Desai that in para 16 of the
written statement, the defendant has taken the plea that the concept was only
a bare first draft and no detailed programme or concept at any point of time
was given or disclosed to the defendants. Mr. Desai took pain to state that
the defendants programme does not have the following primary characteristics
as alleged by the plaintiff :
1\. Providing a platform to young women to choose a spouse from a short list
of potential suitors.
2\. Involvement of parents of the girl and suitors.
3\. Enabling selection of spouse through various devices.
4\. Rewarding the couple after Swayamvar is concluded.
5\. Selection process through matrimonial bureau, etc.
6\. Empowerment of women through giving her power of selection.
7\. Giving of gifts to the engaged couple as 'Streedhan'.
71\. It was further contended that a studio based reality TV show on the
subject matter of match making, mediation by a celebrity anchor woman cannot
be called unique or novel by any stretch of imagination. It was contended that
confidentiality and communication cannot hold water if the same are under
public domain.
72\. It was further contended by Mr. Desai that as stated in para 14 and 15 of
the plaint, no concept note was sent by the plaintiff along with the letter
dated 20.10.2000. What was contended before me by learned counsel for the
defendants is that a communication was sent by the plaintiff to present five
sets of concepts in which Swayamvar was at serial no.4. However, pages 78, 79
and 80 were not sent to the defendant. It was contended by Mr. Desai that even
the notice dated 13.8.2001 sent by the lawyers of the plaintiff did not
mention about the meetings of 31st August, 1998 or handing over the concept
note in the said meeting. It was contended by Mr. Desai that even if one sees
Annexure A along with letter dated 28.10.2000, the concept note was for
Doordarshan and not for the defendants. Pointing out inconsistency in the
stand of the plaintiff in the plaint it was argued that it was contended that
concept was developed by the plaintiff in 1998 as the plaintiff could not
travel to Mumbai for presentation in end July, 1998, however, from the
affidavit filed by Sanjoy Roy (which is at page 213), Sanjoy Roy has nowhere
stated in the affidavit that he developed the concept till 2000.
73\. It was further contended that even prior to 1996, there were several
shows in existence outside India having similar theme of matchmaking on TV
such as in the United Kingdom: 'Mr. & Mrs.', broadcast on ATV between 1964 and
1988, and broadcast on UK during the 1990's; 'Love at First Sight' broadcast
on Sky since 1990; 'Blind Date' broadcast on ITV since 1995, amongst others
and even otherwise, the process of selecting groom from a variety of suitors
is a traditional concept, rooted in Indian tradition, mythology and there was
nothing novel or unique about it. As a matter of fact, defendant denied that
in the meeting in August, 1998, Sanjoy Roy was present.
74\. Mr. Desai contended that in the affidavit filed by Mrs.Urmila Gupta, wife
of plaintiff no.1 (in para 7 at page 41 of the paper-book), it has been
contended that the husband of Urmila Gupta does not have enough fund to
develop the concept Swayamvar. Therefore, to say that the concept was
developed and handed over in August, 1998 to the defendant was contrary to the
affidavit filed by Urmila Gupta.
75\. It was contended by Mr. Desai that as the concept was disclosed to others
and that amounts disclosure made by the plaintiff to the world, now it is not
possible for plaintiff to get an injunction restraining the defendants from
disclosing what was in common knowledge and in support of his contention, he
has relied upon O. Mustad & Son v. Dosen & Anr. 1963 Reports of Patent, Design
& Trade Mark Cases 41 as well as Franchi and Ors. v. Franchi and others 1967
RPC 149. It was further contended before me by Mr. Desai that plaintiff has
miserably failed to state as to what was the information which the plaintiff
relied to be confidential and in what way it was handed over in confidence to
the defendant. Plaintiff has also failed to prima facie show that the
information which was supplied to the defendants was to be treated as
confidential and the same was disclosed or the said information was used for
making Shubh Vivah. In support of his contention, Mr. Desai has cited CMI-
Centre for Medical Innovation GMBH and Anr. v. Phytopharma PLC Fleet Street
Reports (1999) 235. Distinguishing the case of Talbott v. General Television
(supra) cited by counsel for the plaintiff, Mr. Desai contended that in that
case pilot script was sent to the defendant, whereas in the present case no
pilot script was sent to the defendant. It was further contended that the
prayer for grant of interlocutory injunction cannot be granted by this Court
as the very existence of the legal right asserted by the plaintiff and its
alleged violation are both contested and uncertain till they are established
at the trial on evidence and in support of his contention, he has relied upon
Wander Ltd. & Anr. v. Antox India P. Ltd. 1990 (Supp) SCC 727, where Supreme
court observed as under :
"The interlocutory remedy is intended to preserve in status quo, the rights of
parties which may appear on a prima facie case. The court also in restraining
a defendant from exercising what he considers his legal right but what the
plaintiff would like to be prevented, puts into the scales, as a relevant
consideration whether the defendant has yet to commence his enterprise or
whether he has already been doing so in which latter case considerations
somewhat different from those that apply to a case where the defendant is yet
to commence his enterprise, are attracted."
76\. It was contended that defendants have made many episodes whereas the
plaintiff has yet to commence making any episode and, therefore, interlocutory
injunction cannot be granted against the defendants and in this connection he
has cited Colgate Palmolive (India) Ltd. v. Hindustan Lever Ltd. . Mr. Desai
also contended that the Court has to take into consideration that when breach
of confidence is alleged and an action has been brought, in such a case the
Court has to see that the same is not to oppress and harass the competitors
and, therefore, full and proper particular of all the confidential information
as to when and to whom was given and in the absence of pleadings in the
plaint, Court may not grant an interlocutory injunction against the defendants
and in support of his contention, he has cited Ocular Sciences Ltd. & Anr. Vs.
Aspect Vision Care Ltd. & Ors. (1997) RPC 289.
"The rules relating to the particularity of pleadings apply to breach of
confidence actions as they apply to all other proceedings. But it is well
recognised that breach of confidence actions can be used to oppress and harass
competitors and ex-employees. The courts are therefore careful to ensure that
the plaintiff gives full and proper particulars of all the confidential
information on which he intends to rely in the proceedings. If the plaintiff
fails to do this the court may infer that the purpose of the litigation is
harassment rather than the protection of the plaintiff's rights and may strike
out the action as an abuse of process. ."
77\. On the basis of aforesaid arguments it was contended by Mr. Desai that no
injunction be granted in favor of the plaintiff.
78\. I have given my careful consideration to the arguments advanced by
learned counsel for the parties. At this stage, the question for consideration
before me is as to whether the idea conceived by the plaintiffs of producing a
reality TV programme is a novel concept and same could be protected. Secondly
whatever information, concept or presentation imparted by the plaintiff to the
defendant was confidential. Thirdly, whether the defendant may be permitted to
launch its proposed TV programme Shubh Vivaah which is allegedly based on the
concept of swayamvar conceived by the plaintiff and if I agree with the above
submission of the plaintiff what kind of injunction plaintiff is entitled to.
79\. Apart from the pleadings, the meetings as claimed by the plaintiff in its
plaint, dated July, 1998, 10.11.2000 and 30.10.2000 have not been denied by
the defendants. It was also not denied that a theme of a programme proposed by
the plaintiff was revealed to the defendant in the meeting held in July, 1998
as would be borne out from the reply of the legal notice by counsel for the
defendants (which is at page 100 of part II file). In the same paragraph
counsel for the defendant has also conceded that a formal representation was
also made by the plaintiff in November, 2000. As a matter of fact, by way of
para 4 of the said reply what plaintiff was made to understand was that the
Shubh Vivaah to be launched by the defendants was not going to be anything
like Swayamvar which was conceived by the plaintiff. The stand of the
defendant is that they have developed their own concept, format of an
independent programme titled Shubh Vivaah which was traced from the concept of
ancient Indian concept of Swayamvar and the defendants have not taken or used
any of theme, concept, thoughts and writing of the plaintiff.
80\. In the modern day, when the small screen has taken over the earlier means
of mass communication like radio, idea/concept/script of a broadcaster has
wider potentiality of capitalising revenue and if that idea/concept or script
is not protected then in a given case, a person who has conceived an idea to
be translated into the reality TV show which could be key to its success with
audience then channels with their enormous resources could always be in a
better position to take the idea/theme/concept from any author and then
develop at their own end and the original author of the concept will be left
high and dry. In appropriate cases interlocutory injunction may be issued
restraining such breach of confidentiality of the theme, concept or scripts
otherwise it would be catastrophic for the television industry. One has to
bear in mind that persons who create an idea/ concept or theme which is
original, laws must ensure that such like people are rewarded for their
labour. A concept for reality show on television was given to the company,
which in this case is the defendants. Creator provides raw material to the
entertainment industry, themes or concepts originates from the person who has
conceived the same, protection is vital for the functioning of the industry.
Otherwise authors of the ideas who are individuals, their ideas can be taken
by the broadcasting companies or channels owning companies and the persons who
has conceived the same, would be robbed of its labour. But at this stage, I
have to find out from the records as to what is the admitted case of the
parties as evidence has not been led and the suit is at preliminary stage.
81\. From the admitted pleadings of the parties, the following meetings took
place between the parties :
1\. Meeting of July, 1998.
2\. Meeting of 31st August, 1998.
3\. Meeting of 30th October, 2000
4\. Meeting/presentation of 10th November, 2000
5\. Meeting of 23rd & 24th May, 2001
82\. An idea per se has no copyright. But if the idea is developed into a
concept fledged with adequate details, then the same is capable of
registration under the Copyright Act. The novelty and innovation of the
concept of the plaintiff resides in combing of a reality TV show with a
subject like match making for the purpose of marriage. The Swayamvar quoted in
Indian mythology was not a routine practice. In mythology, we have come across
broadly understood only two swayamvars, one in Mahabharat where the choice was
not left on the bride but on the act of chivalry to be performed by any prince
and whosoever succeeded in such performance got the hand of Draupdi.
Similarly, in Ramayana choice was not left to the bride but again on
performance of chivalrous act by a prince who could break the mighty Dhanusha
(bow). Therefore, originality lies in the concept of plaintiff by conceiving a
reality TV programme of match making and spouse selection by transposing
mythological swayamvar to give prerogative to woman to select a groom from
variety of suitors and making it presentable to audience and to explore it for
commercial marketing. Therefore, the very concept of matchmaking in view of
concept of the plaintiff giving choice to the bride was a novel concept in
original thought capable of being protected.
83\. The concept note was given to the defendant on 31st August, 1998 prior to
which the defendants have admitted receipt of a summary/concept note of
swayamvar at the meeting in July, 1998. It was also admitted that the
presentation was made on 10th November, 2000. If the concept, format and
structure which were the key elements of the plaintiff's proposal, the same
has been received by the defendant, it cannot be said that defendants were not
aware of the salient feature of the concept and the format of the plaintiffs
match making TV reality show. There is no denying of the fact that from July,
1998 to April-May, 2001, the concept of the plaintiff was discussed and was
under consideration by the defendants and, therefore, if the defendants have
gone public on their proposed launch of the programme Shubh Vivaah and if the
same is based on the concept of swayamvar, defendants cannot be permitted to
reap the fruit of the labour put in by the plaintiff. In television industry,
it matters as to who has gone first, once the reality show is televised on the
television, the same comes within the purview of public domain and anybody
else can take up the same concept and launch their own television programme.
Curiously, in the affidavit filed by defendant no.1 on behalf of defendants 1
to 4, the defendant has taken inconsistent stand. Whereas in para 98 at page
140 of part II file, it has been mentioned that Raveena Kohli was not present
at the meeting on 31st August, 2000 as alleged by the plaintiff, however
careful reading of para 10 of the same affidavit would show that presence of
Raveena Kohli in the said meeting was admitted by the defendants. From the
perusal of the para 9 of the said affidavit of the defendants, even the
delivery of concept note has been admitted. What has been denied was that the
concept note was not intended to be a confidential document. As a matter of
fact, the stand taken by the defendant that no concept of the treatment of
programme reality show Swayamvar was given, is contrary to the documents filed
on record. There are two documents (at page 81 - 82 of part II file) sent via
Fax/Email, which are to the following effect. The same has not been denied by
the defendants:
"Via Fax/Email 6th November, 2000 Ms.Rekha Nigam Sr.Vice President (Production
& Programming) Sony Entertainment Television India Ltd.
23, Shah Indl. Estate, Andheri (W) Mumbai Dear Rekha, It was a great pleasure
to have met you along with Kunal on Monday 30th October.
I am enclosing a copy of my letter to Kunal regarding the presentation on
'Swayamvar', which we will be making on 4 p.m. on Friday 10th November.
In case, you would like any inputs on some of the other concepts too, please
let us know at the following fax and email."
We look forward to meeting you and the team.
    Thanking you,
    With regards,
    Yours sincerely,           Sd/- 
              Anil Gupta"  
    "Via Fax/Email  
    6th November, 2000 
    Mr.Kunal Das Gupta, 
    C.E.O.
    Sony Entertainment
    Television India Ltd.
    23, Shah Indl. Estate,
    Andheri (W)
    Mumbai
    Dear Kunal,
    I would like to thank you for meeting Vinod Khanna, Urmila, Samir and myself at your office on Monday 30th October, 2000 along with Rekha Nigam.
    As discussed at the meeting and later confirmed by your office, we shall be making a presentation on the updated concept and treatment of the programme 'Swayamvar', which, I had discussed with you over a year back with Sanjoy Roy of Teamwork Films.
    I have since then fine-tuned the concept incorporating elements we feel, have great potential. Please let me know at the following fax and email if you need any other inputs for the presentation which we will make on Power Point.
    We look forward to meeting you and your team on Friday, November 10th at 4 p.m.
    With regards,
    Yours sincerely,
               Sd/- 
              Anil Gupta"
84\. In the affidavit filed by defendants none of these letters have been
denied. What was argued was that full format and structure was not given. Even
if I assume that typed copy of the note was not received by the defendants,
the defendants had shown power point presentation in November, 2000 and same
has been admitted by the defendants.
85\. In Fraser v. Thames Television (supra) it was observed by the Court :
"I accept that to be capable of protection the idea must be sufficiently
developed, so that it would be seen to be a concept which has at least some
attentiveness for a television programme and which is capable of being
realised as an actuality. But I do not think this requirement necessitates in
every case a full synopsis. In some cases the nature of the idea may require
extensive development of this kind in order to meet the criteria. But in
others the criteria may be met by a short unelaborated statement of an idea.
In Talbot's case itself I do not think the detailed submission added very much
of substance to the idea which is set out in one sentence."
86\. When an idea or concept has been developed to a stage that it could be
seen to be a concept which has some attractiveness so as to get an audience on
a television programme and could be realised as an actuality then the concept
is capable of being the subject of confidential communication.
87\. Now let me deal with another submission of Mr. Desai that even if we
assume that there was a concept developed by the plaintiff, the same was in
public domain. In Talbott v. General Television Corpn. (supra) it was held :
"I am satisfied that what was called the "commercial twist", or the particular
slant, of the plaintiff's concept (or idea) does give it a quality which takes
it out of the realm of public knowledge.
In my opinion, the situation then (i.e. on 7 October 1976) was that the
plaintiff had "a saleable proposition" which had as its kernel the valuable
concept of a programme which had the intent of exposing the lives of
successful people. In my opinion, not only was the text of the submission made
available in confidence, but the kernel of the concept, whether it was
conveyed in writing or orally, was also made available in confidence."
88\. The Law of Trade Secrets by Robert Dean take into consideration that the
word 'novel' is sometimes used simply to mean previously unknown but its more
common meaning is that of inventiveness, or that of the information is unique,
akin to 'manner of manufacture'. Whether it is described as originality or
novelty or ingenuity or otherwise, there must be some product of the human
brain which suffices to confer a confidential nature upon the information. The
novelty is in recognising the solution.
89\. In Fraser v. Thames Television (supra), it was held :
". But I do not think this requirement necessitates in every case a full
synopsis. In some cases the nature of the idea may require extensive
development of this kind in order to meet the criteria. But in others the
criteria may be met by a short unelaborated statement of an idea."
90\. I do not find any force in the arguments advanced by the defendants that
as the concept note was also given to Doordarshan, they were not under the
obligation to maintain confidentiality or the concept note having been given
to other prospective broadcasters, the defendants was under no obligation to
treat the same in confidentiality. In Franchi and Ors. v. Franchi and others
(supra) it was held :
"Clearly a claim that the disclosure of some information would be a breach of
confidence is not to be defeated simply by proving that there are other people
in the world who know the facts in question besides the man as to whom it is
said that his disclosure would be a breach of confidence and those to whom he
has disclosed them."
91\. The concept developed and evolved by the plaintiff is the result of the
work done by the plaintiff upon material which may be available for the use of
anybody but what makes it confidential is the fact that the plaintiff has used
his brain and thus produced a result in the shape of a concept and if
defendant is allowed to show their own reality show based on the concept
originally conceived by the plaintiff, it will be allowing the defendant to
use that concept and to reap the fruit of the labour of the plaintiff. In such
kind of cases the defendant must be placed under special disability in the
field of competition to ensure that he does not get an unfair start.
92\. In Terrapin v. Builders Supply Co. (supra) it was held :
"As I understand it, the essence of this branch of the law, whatever the
origin of it may be, is that a person who has obtained information in
confidence is not allowed to use it as a spring-board for activities
detrimental to the person who made the confidential communication, and spring-
board it remains even when all the features have been published or can be
ascertained by actual inspection by any member of the public. The brochures
are certainly not equivalent to the publication of the plans, specifications,
other technical and know-how. The dismantling of a unit might enable a person
to proceed without plans or specifications, or other technical information,
but not, I think, without some of the know-how, and certainly not without
taking the trouble to dismantle. I think it is broadly true to say that a
member of the public to whom the confidential information had not been
imparted would still have to prepare plans and specifications. He would
probably have to construct a prototype and he would certainly have to conduct
tests. Therefore, the possessor of the confidential information still has a
long start over any member of the public. The design may be as important as
the features. It is, in my view, inherent in the principle upon which the
Saltman case rests that the possessor of such information must be placed under
a special disability in the field of competition, in order to ensure that he
does not get an unfair start; or in other words, to preclude the tactics which
the first defendants and the third defendants and the managing director of
both of those companies employed in this case."
93\. I also find force in the arguments of counsel for the plaintiff that if
the said confidential information is going to be used in competition with the
plaintiff, it is not merely a matter of compensation in terms of money.
94\. Therefore, when the meetings took place in July, 1998, 31st August, 1998
where the concept of swayamvar was given and the meeting of 30th October, 2000
and the power presentation by the plaintiff on 10th November, 2000 it cannot
be said that the concept with its format was not in the knowledge of the
defendants and if the same was in the knowledge of the defendants, the
defendants were under no obligation to treat the same with confidentiality.
The stand taken by the defendant that it was Rekha Nigam who also has prepared
her own idea of match-making show as per para 59 of the affidavit of the
defendant, raises a strong inference that the second concept was derived from
the first. Prior to filing of the affidavit in this case by the defendant
which was filed on 31st October, 2001, there is nothing on record to show that
Rekha Nigam had already prepared her own idea of matchmaking show. To my mind
this simply is an afterthought. It was also somewhere in middle of 2001, the
defendants started the idea of having their own reality TV show. It cannot be
said that the idea and the concept and the structure of matchmaking was in
public domain as was contended before me by learned counsel for the
defendants. Nothing was filed on record as to what were the serials 'Mr. &
Mrs.', 'Love at First Sight', 'Blind Date' broadcasted in 1964, 1988 and
1990s, by the defendants.
95\. In R.G. Anand v. M/s Delux Films & Others (supra) it was observed by the
Supreme Court:
96\. Where the same idea is being developed in a different manner, it is
manifest that the source being common, similarities are bound to occur. In
such a case the courts should determine whether or not the similarities are on
fundamental or substantial aspects of the mode of expression adopted in the
copyrighted work. If the defendant's work is nothing but a literal imitation
of the copy-righted work with some variations here and there it would amount
to violation of the copyright. In other words, in order to be actionable the
copy must be a substantial and material one which at once leads to the
conclusion that the defendant is guilty of an act of piracy.
97\. From the bare reading of parameters laid down by the Supreme Court it is
evident that when the idea is developed and even if there are similarities,
substantial fundamental aspect of the mode of expression adopted in the
copyright work and the defendants work is literal imitation to the copyright
work with some variations, it would amount to violation of the copyright.
Although the stand of the defendants before me is that they do not want to
disclose as to what is the concept and the format and the structure of Shubh
Vivaah, the TV reality show which they are planning to televised and of which
several episodes have been shot.
98\. With the rejoinder, the plaintiff has filed Annexure UG 15, wherein it
has been reported :
".this show is scheduled to go on air in October. Shubh Vivah which marks
Madhuri Dixit's TV debut, will usher on to Indian television the first-ever
reality TV show.
A cutting edge programme, Shubh Vivaah will bring together prospective brides
and grooms. Madhuri will play cupid/ match-maker, she will discuss what each
participant is looking for in a life partner, their family backgrounds
interests, etc. which will enable the host to introduce them to the right
partners. If they click, wedding bells will follow."
99\. Similarly in the same material, the plaintiff has placed Indian
Television Report, which is as under :
"Sony is not talking - the UTV-produced show has prospective brides and grooms
being introduced to each other. They discuss their backgrounds, their
families, what they are interested in and what they look for in a marriage
partner. If a couple hit it off they will actually get married. Off the show,
that is."
100\. Besides this the plaintiff has filed his own affidavit as well as the
affidavits of Mrs.Urmila Gupta, Sanjoy Roy where it has been stated that the
key elements of the format of the defendants' programme Shubh Vivaah are as
under :-
1\. applicants for the show send in their photos and CVs and personal
information like their preferences, likes, dislikes, etc.
2\. the applicants are then short-listed.
3\. each segments has one girl who has to choose from five boys
4\. she asks a few questions which are posed to the five boys
5\. their answers are shown to the girl and she short-lists three of them
6\. she and her family then meet the three boys and their families
7\. interaction happens and the girl shortlists one boy
8\. girl and boy then meet and interact and take a decision to marry or not
9\. if they marry within a year, they are sponsored a honeymoon and are given
prizes
101\. Defendants have not controverter the aforesaid affidavits. The affidavit
was initially filed by the aforesaid persons. Affidavits in rebuttal of Rekha
Nigam, Raveena Raj Kohli who were working with the defendants, were not filed
in this court, which does not give credence, prima facie, to the defense taken
by the defendants.
102\. In view of the discussions above when concept note as well as power
presentation was admitted to have been received by the defendants, it cannot
be said that the defendants were under no obligation to maintain
confidentiality. The argument of the defendants that once the concept was
registered under the Copyright Act the same came under public domain, cannot
be sustained in the eyes of law. As a matter of fact, when the concept is
registered, the same is protected from public domain. Therefore, the
defendants cannot be permitted to launch its proposed TV programme Shubh Vivah
if the same is based on the concept of Swayamvar conceived by the plaintiff.
It would have been easier for this Court if the salient features of Shubh
Vivah would have been disclosed by the defendants before this Court. What has
been disclosed before this Court by the defendants is that the defendants are
not providing a platform to young woman to choose spouse from a shortlist of
potential suitors, there is no involvement of parents of the girls and the
suitors, reward to the couple after swayamvar is concluded or involvement of
selection process through matrimonial bureau or giving of gifts to the engaged
couples as streedhan. What is important to note is that Shubh Vivah is based
on thrill of matchmaking about real life situation. Shubh Vivah based on
concept of spouse selection in any form as a reality TV show cannot be
permitted as that has been conceived by the plaintiff at the first instance.
To depict match making in the form of a reality TV show or spouse selection,
is the theme of the concept. How it is done, who plays as anchor person, gifts
are given or not, may be the various elements which may differ but if Shubh
Vivah is based on match making process to be televised on the TV as a real
life drama, defendants cannot reap the fruits of labour put in by the
plaintiff in this regard.
103\. Lastly, what kind of injunction the plaintiffs are entitled to.
Plaintiffs cannot get an injunction in perpetuity in the concept. Plaintiff
can also not get an injunction till the decision of the suit because if the
plaintiffs are entitled to transmit their programme Swayamvar on the
television after televising the same, the concept will be in public domain.
104\. The plaintiff has prima facie proved that the defendants were aware of
the concept of swayamvar and if injunction is not granted then the defendants
will launch its own TV serial Shubh Vivah which will also televise match
making and if that is permitted, it will be giving premium to the defendants
and robbing of the plaintiff of his work. Balance of convenience is also in
favor of grant of injunction and if injunction is not granted, the injury
sustained by the plaintiffs, may be difficult to be measured in terms of
money.
105\. Therefore, I restrain the defendants, theirs agents from transmitting or
enabling the transmission by television of the programme entitled 'Shubh
Vivah' or any other programme or transmission whatsoever having its subject or
theme of match making for a period of four months from the date of the order.
If the plaintiffs are not in a position to transmit on television its
programme entitled 'Swayamvar' within a period of four months, defendants
shall be at liberty to transmit its programme Shubh Vivah after expiry of four
months. In case the plaintiff launches its programme 'Swayamvar' within a
period of four months from the date of the order, the defendants are further
restrained from transmitting or showing or exhibiting or televising its
programme 'Shubh Vivah' or any other programme having its subject or theme of
match making for a further period of two months. This further period of two
months is given so that the plaintiffs will have a head start by televising
its episodes for two months. Nothing said in this order shall be an expression
of opinion on the merit of the case.
106\. Application is disposed of accordingly. Suit 1970/2001 .
107\. List this matter for further proceedings before appropriate Court
according to Roster on 22.3.2002.
sustained by the plaintiffs, may be difficult to be measured in terms of
money.
105\. Therefore, I restrain the defendants, theirs agents from transmitting or
enabling the transmission by television of the programme entitled 'Shubh
Vivah' or any other programme or transmission whatsoever having its subject or
theme of match making for a period of four months from the date of the order.
If the plaintiffs are not in a position to transmit on television its
programme entitled 'Swayamvar' within a period of four months, defendants
shall be at liberty to transmit its programme Shubh Vivah after expiry of four
months. In case the plaintiff launches its programme 'Swayamvar' within a
period of four months from the date of the order, the defendants are further
restrained from transmitting or showing or exhibiting or televising its
programme 'Shubh Vivah' or any other programme having its subject or theme of
match making for a further period of two months. This further period of two
months is given so that the plaintiffs will have a head start by televising
its episodes for two months. Nothing said in this order shall be an expression
the idea of producing a reality television programme containing the process of
match making to the point of actual spouse selection in which real everyday
ordinary persons would participate before a TV audience. Mr.Sibal, learned
senior counsel for the plaintiffs has contended that plaintiff devised a
unique and novel concept for a TV show in which it would be the prerogative of
a woman to select a groom from a variety of suitors. The plaintiff decided to
name the concept 'Swayamvar' knowing that a large number of people would
associate the name with the idea of a woman selecting a groom in a public fora
and that would create the necessary instantaneous recall and recognition of
mythological swayamvar in the minds of a large number of people and give the
program a head-start. The aforesaid concept titled 'Swayamvar' was disclosed
in early 1997 by the plaintiff to his wife and one Mr.K. Chandrasekhar.
Plaintiff applied for registration after developing the concept as a literary
work under the Copyright Act. The work was registered and a certificate was
issued in favor of the plaintiff on 17th December, 1997. Some of the essential
elements of the programme as contained in the copyright concept note was to
the following effect :
1\. A real life entertainment program about a real life situation.
2\. A half-hour long, proposed studio-based television show, also flexible
enough and capable of being shot outdoors for longer stretches of time.
sustained by the plaintiffs, may be difficult to be measured in terms of
money.
105\. Therefore, I restrain the defendants, theirs agents from transmitting or
enabling the transmission by television of the programme entitled 'Shubh
Vivah' or any other programme or transmission whatsoever having its subject or
theme of match making for a period of four months from the date of the order.
If the plaintiffs are not in a position to transmit on television its
programme entitled 'Swayamvar' within a period of four months, defendants
shall be at liberty to transmit its programme Shubh Vivah after expiry of four
months. In case the plaintiff launches its programme 'Swayamvar' within a
period of four months from the date of the order, the defendants are further
restrained from transmitting or showing or exhibiting or televising its
programme 'Shubh Vivah' or any other programme having its subject or theme of
match making for a further period of two months. This further period of two
months is given so that the plaintiffs will have a head start by televising
its episodes for two months. Nothing said in this order shall be an expression
the idea of producing a reality television programme containing the process of
match making to the point of actual spouse selection in which real everyday
ordinary persons would participate before a TV audience. Mr.Sibal, learned
senior counsel for the plaintiffs has contended that plaintiff devised a
unique and novel concept for a TV show in which it would be the prerogative of
a woman to select a groom from a variety of suitors. The plaintiff decided to
name the concept 'Swayamvar' knowing that a large number of people would
associate the name with the idea of a woman selecting a groom in a public fora
and that would create the necessary instantaneous recall and recognition of
mythological swayamvar in the minds of a large number of people and give the
program a head-start. The aforesaid concept titled 'Swayamvar' was disclosed
in early 1997 by the plaintiff to his wife and one Mr.K. Chandrasekhar.
Plaintiff applied for registration after developing the concept as a literary
work under the Copyright Act. The work was registered and a certificate was
issued in favor of the plaintiff on 17th December, 1997. Some of the essential
elements of the programme as contained in the copyright concept note was to
the following effect :
1\. A real life entertainment program about a real life situation.
2\. A half-hour long, proposed studio-based television show, also flexible
enough and capable of being shot outdoors for longer stretches of time.
sustained by the plaintiffs, may be difficult to be measured in terms of
money.
105\. Therefore, I restrain the defendants, theirs agents from transmitting or
enabling the transmission by television of the programme entitled 'Shubh
Vivah' or any other programme or transmission whatsoever having its subject or
theme of match making for a period of four months from the date of the order.
If the plaintiffs are not in a position to transmit on television its
programme entitled 'Swayamvar' within a period of four months, defendants
shall be at liberty to transmit its programme Shubh Vivah after expiry of four
months. In case the plaintiff launches its programme 'Swayamvar' within a
period of four months from the date of the order, the defendants are further
restrained from transmitting or showing or exhibiting or televising its
programme 'Shubh Vivah' or any other programme having its subject or theme of
match making for a further period of two months. This further period of two
months is given so that the plaintiffs will have a head start by televising
its episodes for two months. Nothing said in this order shall be an expression
the idea of producing a reality television programme containing the process of
match making to the point of actual spouse selection in which real everyday
ordinary persons would participate before a TV audience. Mr.Sibal, learned
senior counsel for the plaintiffs has contended that plaintiff devised a
unique and novel concept for a TV show in which it would be the prerogative of
a woman to select a groom from a variety of suitors. The plaintiff decided to
name the concept 'Swayamvar' knowing that a large number of people would
associate the name with the idea of a woman selecting a groom in a public fora
and that would create the necessary instantaneous recall and recognition of
mythological swayamvar in the minds of a large number of people and give the
program a head-start. The aforesaid concept titled 'Swayamvar' was disclosed
in early 1997 by the plaintiff to his wife and one Mr.K. Chandrasekhar.
Plaintiff applied for registration after developing the concept as a literary
work under the Copyright Act. The work was registered and a certificate was
issued in favor of the plaintiff on 17th December, 1997. Some of the essential
elements of the programme as contained in the copyright concept note was to
the following effect :
1\. A real life entertainment program about a real life situation.
2\. A half-hour long, proposed studio-based television show, also flexible
enough and capable of being shot outdoors for longer stretches of time.
3\. Providing the thrill of matchmaking.
4\. Specifically, providing a platform for marriageable girls to select a
spouse from an array of suitors.
5\. Parents of the girl and suitors to be associated with the entire process.
6\. The participating eligible men to be selected/short-listed by the
producers prior to the show.
7\. Producers will ensure that there is no duplicity or foul play.
8\. Mediation by a mature, articulate, vibrant anchorwoman.
9\. Empowerment of women by promoting secular and progressive spouse
selection.
4\. Plaintiff no.1 disclosed this concept to one Sanjoy Roy in 1997 to involve
sustained by the plaintiffs, may be difficult to be measured in terms of
money.
105\. Therefore, I restrain the defendants, theirs agents from transmitting or
enabling the transmission by television of the programme entitled 'Shubh
Vivah' or any other programme or transmission whatsoever having its subject or
theme of match making for a period of four months from the date of the order.
If the plaintiffs are not in a position to transmit on television its
programme entitled 'Swayamvar' within a period of four months, defendants
shall be at liberty to transmit its programme Shubh Vivah after expiry of four
months. In case the plaintiff launches its programme 'Swayamvar' within a
period of four months from the date of the order, the defendants are further
restrained from transmitting or showing or exhibiting or televising its
programme 'Shubh Vivah' or any other programme having its subject or theme of
match making for a further period of two months. This further period of two
months is given so that the plaintiffs will have a head start by televising
its episodes for two months. Nothing said in this order shall be an expression
the idea of producing a reality television programme containing the process of
match making to the point of actual spouse selection in which real everyday
ordinary persons would participate before a TV audience. Mr.Sibal, learned
senior counsel for the plaintiffs has contended that plaintiff devised a
unique and novel concept for a TV show in which it would be the prerogative of
a woman to select a groom from a variety of suitors. The plaintiff decided to
name the concept 'Swayamvar' knowing that a large number of people would
associate the name with the idea of a woman selecting a groom in a public fora
and that would create the necessary instantaneous recall and recognition of
mythological swayamvar in the minds of a large number of people and give the
program a head-start. The aforesaid concept titled 'Swayamvar' was disclosed
in early 1997 by the plaintiff to his wife and one Mr.K. Chandrasekhar.
Plaintiff applied for registration after developing the concept as a literary
work under the Copyright Act. The work was registered and a certificate was
issued in favor of the plaintiff on 17th December, 1997. Some of the essential
elements of the programme as contained in the copyright concept note was to
the following effect :
1\. A real life entertainment program about a real life situation.
2\. A half-hour long, proposed studio-based television show, also flexible
enough and capable of being shot outdoors for longer stretches of time.
3\. Providing the thrill of matchmaking.
4\. Specifically, providing a platform for marriageable girls to select a
spouse from an array of suitors.
5\. Parents of the girl and suitors to be associated with the entire process.
6\. The participating eligible men to be selected/short-listed by the
producers prior to the show.
7\. Producers will ensure that there is no duplicity or foul play.
8\. Mediation by a mature, articulate, vibrant anchorwoman.
9\. Empowerment of women by promoting secular and progressive spouse
selection.
4\. Plaintiff no.1 disclosed this concept to one Sanjoy Roy in 1997 to involve
sustained by the plaintiffs, may be difficult to be measured in terms of
money.
105\. Therefore, I restrain the defendants, theirs agents from transmitting or
enabling the transmission by television of the programme entitled 'Shubh
Vivah' or any other programme or transmission whatsoever having its subject or
theme of match making for a period of four months from the date of the order.
If the plaintiffs are not in a position to transmit on television its
programme entitled 'Swayamvar' within a period of four months, defendants
shall be at liberty to transmit its programme Shubh Vivah after expiry of four
months. In case the plaintiff launches its programme 'Swayamvar' within a
period of four months from the date of the order, the defendants are further
restrained from transmitting or showing or exhibiting or televising its
programme 'Shubh Vivah' or any other programme having its subject or theme of
match making for a further period of two months. This further period of two
months is given so that the plaintiffs will have a head start by televising
its episodes for two months. Nothing said in this order shall be an expression
