Madras High Court
M/S. Perfect Automotive ... vs M/S. Premier Instruments & ... on 22 August,
2008
     IN THE HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE AT MADRAS
    DATED  :  22-08-2008
    CORAM
    THE HONOURABLE MR. JUSTICE P.K. MISRA
    AND
    THE HONOURABLE MR. JUSTICE K. MOHAN RAM
    O.S.A.NOs.377 & 378 OF 2001
    M/s. Perfect Automotive Components,
    216, Hans Bhawan,
    Bahadur Shah Zafar Marg,
    New Delhi 110 002.					..  Appellant in 
    								    OSA.No.377 of 2001
    M/s. Pricol Lubricants (India)
    	Pvt. Ltd.,
    216, Hans Bhawan,
    Bahadur Shah Zafar Marg,
    New Delhi 110 002.					..  Appellant in
diligently. Therefore, we do not find any prejudice whatsoever has been caused
to the appellants, even assuming that the court had no territorial
jurisdiction to deal with the matter. Under such circumstances, the question
arises is whether the decision of the Supreme Court in Dhodha House case can
be said to have been rendered per incuriam. One has to remember that the said
decision was rendered in the context of the orders of injunction under Order
39 Rule 1 and 2 CPC., during pendency of the suit. Since on the face of it the
courts did not have any jurisdiction, the Supreme Court apparently upheld such
contention. Since the question relating to jurisdiction was raised in an
interlocutory matter during pendency of the suit, the third condition
envisaged under Section 21(1) of the CPC was not relevant as the trial was yet
to take place.
40\. In the above view of the matter, it can be argued fairly by the plaintiff
/ respondent that even assuming that there was no territorial jurisdiction,
since no prejudice has been caused to the appellant and since substantial
justice has been done, the appellate court should not interfere with the order
    New Delhi 110 002.					..  Appellant in
    								    OSA.No.378 of 2001
    					Vs.
    M/s. Premier Instruments & Controls Ltd.,
    No.6, Church Lane, Ritherdon Road,
    Vepery, Madras 7.					..  Respondent in
both OSAs Appeals filed under Order 36 Rule 1 of the O.S. Rules and Clause 15
of the Letters Patent against the common judgment dated 3.2.2000 passed in
C.S.Nos.534 & 535 of 1993 passed by the learned single Judge.
    		For Appellant in		:  M/s.V. Nataraj
    		both OSAs			         B. Giridhar Rao
    		For Respondent in
    		both OSAs			:  Mrs. Gladys Daniel
    - - -
    COMMON JUDGMENT
    P.K. MISRA, J
These two appeals were heard earlier and judgment was reserved in 2007.
However, the judgment could not be prepared and pronounced earlier on account
of the posting of the concerned Judges at Madurai at different times and the
resultant dislocation of the relevant files. Thereafter, the matter was again
listed for hearing on 24.3.2008, on which date the counsels for both the
parties were heard at length and the matter was reserved for judgment.
Subsequently, the counsels for the parties have also filed their written
submissions.
2\. O.S.A.No.377 of 2001 is filed by M/s. Perfect Automotive Components, the
sole defendant in C.S.No.534 of 1993. O.S.A.No.378 of 2001 is filed by M/s.
Pricol Lubricants (India) Pvt. Ltd., the sole defendant in C.S.No.535 of 1993.
Both the above suits were brought by Premier Instruments & Controls Limited, a
private limited company, the common respondent in both the appeals. Such
plaintiff company, originally named as Premier Instruments Coimbatore Limited,
was incorporated on 6.3.1972. Subsequently, it was renamed as Premier
Instruments & Controls Limited as per the Certificate of the Registrar of
Companies dated 4.1.1983. Plaintiff is a manufacturer of Automotive
Instruments and accessories and it has subsequently diversified into
electronics and mechanic tools. Immediately after the formation of the
company, the word Trademark 'PRICOL' was coined for marketing the products.
Such expression is an invented word as an acronym of the plaintiff's name by
using the letters 'PR' from 'Premier', 'I' from 'Instruments', 'CO' from
'Coimbatore' and 'L' from 'Limited'. Such trademark is written in a stylised
manner with a star on either side. The plaintiff is thus the Proprietor of the
copyright in the artistic manner, in which the trademark 'PRICOL' is written.
The plaintiff had acquired an exclusive copyright over the pictorial,
geometric colour pattern on the outer card-board containers of the plaintiff's
products. The trademark 'PRICOL' has been registered under the Trade and
Merchandise Marks Act, 1958. The Perfect Automotive Components Ltd., the
defendant in C.S.No.534 of 1993 and the appellant in OSA.No.377 of 2001, is a
manufacturer of lubricants and PRICOL Lubricants (India) Private Ltd., the
defendant in the connected C.S.No.535 of 1993, is its marketing agent. In
September, 1992, the plaintiff came to learn that such defendant in
C.S.Nos.534 of 1993 was manufacturing and selling brake fluid, grease and
coolant and the plaintiff's trademark was being copied and had been displayed
on the containers of the products, their advertisements, their correspondence
and their trade literature. Thereafter, the plaintiff by a registered notice
dated 17.12.1992 called upon the defendant in each case that they should cease
and desist from using such trademark. But, a reply dated 9.1.1993 was received
to the effect that the brake fluid, grease and coolant were sold by adopting
PRICOL as a trademark, after verifying that such trademark had not been
registered in respect of such brake fluid, grease and coolant. On further
verification, the plaintiff found out from the trademark Registry that the
application dated 21.2.1992 had been made, wherein the defendant claimed to
have used PRICOL since January, 1992. In the above background, the plaintiff
filed the two suits on the ground of infringement of plaintiff's copyright in
the artistic manner in which the plaintiff's trademark 'PRICOL' is written and
infringement of copyright on the plaintiff's card-board container and on
account of the defendant passing off their goods as the goods of the
plaintiff. On the aforesaid basis, the plaintiff prayed for the following
reliefs in both the suits:-
"The plaintiff therefore pray for judgment and decree :-
(a) granting, a permanent injunction restraining the defendants by themselves,
their servants, agents or anyone claiming through them, their printers and
distributors from committing infringement of the copyright, which the
plaintiffs have in their artistic work contained in the style of writing
'PRICOL' with starts found in Document No.1 and artistic work in Document
No.3, in any manner by distributing, printing or causing to be printed the
impugned style of writing the word 'PRICOL' and artistic work as shown in
Document Nos.2 & 4 filed along with the plaint or in any other style of
writing, which is an imitation or an infringement of the plaintiff's work
contained in Document Nos.1 and 3;
(b) granting a permanent injunction restraining the defendant by themselves,
servants or agents of any one claiming through them from passing off their
goods break fluid and creases and coolant listed in the pricelist as Document
No.5 filed along with the plaint using the name 'PRICOL' and the artistic
pattern of the plaintiff's containers as shown in Document Nos. 2 and 4 or
pass off any other goods using the expression 'PRICOL' or similar expression.
(c) directing the defendant to render a true and faithful account of the
profits earned by them through the manufacture and sale of the offending mark
'PRICOL' and artistic creation marked as Document Nos.2 and 4 and directing
such profits to be paid to the plaintiffs for the infringement of the
copyright, trade mark and passing off committed by the defendants;
(d) directing the defendants to surrender to the plaintiffs and all cartons,
labels, packets and any other printed matters containing of consisting of the
offending Trade Marks together with blocks used for the purpose of printing
the same for destruction."
3\. The defendant in C.S.No.534 of 1993 claimed that the Madras High Court in
its Original Side has no jurisdiction to entertain the suit as the defendant
was not selling its products within the Ordinary Original Jurisdiction of such
High Court. The plaintiff had no justification to invoke Section 62 of the
Copyright Act for filing the suit before the Madras High Court as, such
plaintiff cannot claim ownership of the copyright in the alleged artistic work
done by the employees of the plaintiff's company. It has been further
indicated that the plaintiff company had not obtained Leave of the High Court
under clause 14 of the Letters Patent to combine different causes of action.
Since the defendant had not sold its articles and was not carrying on any
business nor having any branch office within the jurisdiction of the Madras
High Court, the act of passing off should not have been brought before such
court. It has been further stated in the written statement that the defendant
had applied for registration of the trademark PRICOL in respect of the goods
falling under Class-1 and Class-4 of the Trade and Merchandise Marks Act with
the Registrar of Trade Marks, New Delhi on 21.2.1992. It is further claimed
that the defendant had coined the word 'PRICOL' from his child's name
'PRINCEE' to form 'PRIC' and 'OL' from the word 'OIL'. The said name is
therefore a combination of the words "PRINCEE" and "OIL" and an invented word.
It is further stated that the goods of the defendant fall under Class-1 and
Class-4 of Schedule IV of the Trade and Merchandise Marks Act, whereas the
goods manufactured by the plaintiff fall under Class-9 of the said Act and
there is no possibility of any confusion in the minds of the public. A
detailed description had been given in the written statement describing about
the various differences in the style of writing and other aspects. However,
since the main question raised in these appeals is relating to jurisdiction,
it is unnecessary to notice in detail those aspects.
4\. The defendant in the other suit C.S.No.355 of 1993 filed substantially a
similar written statement.
5\. The following issues had been framed in C.S.Nos.534 of 1993 :-
"1. Is the suit maintainable on the file of this court ?
2\. Is the suit not maintainable for the reasons set out in paragraph 2 of the
written statement ?
3\. Is the defendant entitled to use the name 'Pricol" in respect of products
manufactured by them ?
4\. Has the defendant committed any infringement of copyright or passing of as
alleged by the plaintiff ?
5\. Is the plaintiff owner of the copyright in the artistic pattern and
whether the plaintiff is entitled to seek civil remedies under the Copyright
Act, 1957 ?
6\. Has the defendant committed infringement of the plaintiff's copyright ?
7\. Is the plaintiff entitled to the permanent injunction sought for in
paragraph 27(c) and (b) of the plaint ?"
5.1 The following issues were framed in C.S.No.535 of 1993 :-
"1. Is the plaintiff entitled to invoke the jurisdiction of this court?
2\. Is the suit not maintainable for the reasons set out in paragraph 2 of the
written statement ?
3\. Is the plaintiff owner of the copyright in the artistic pattern ?
4\. Has the defendant committed any infringement of copyright or passing of as
alleged by the plaintiff ?
5\. Is not the defendant entitled to use the name Pricol in respect of
products manufactured by them ?
6\. Is the plaintiff owner of the copyright in the artistic pattern and
whether the plaintiff is entitled to seek civil remedies under the Copyright
Act, 1957 ?
7\. Is the defendant liable to render true and faithful account of the profits
earned by them ?
8\. Is the defendant liable to surrender to the plaintiff all the cartons,
labels, packets and any other printed matter containing or consisting of the
alleged trade mark for destruction ?
9\. To what reliefs are the parties entitled ?
6\. While considering the question of jurisdiction, which had been raised as
Issue No.1 in each of the suits, the trial court has concluded that it had
jurisdiction. While considering Issue No.2, which relates to question of
maintainability on the ground that two suits were based on different causes of
action, it has been held that causes of action could be combined as per Clause
14 of the Letters Patent. While deciding other issues together, the trial
court by relying upon the evidence of P.W.1 and the documents including
Ex.P-1, held that the plaintiff had coined the trademark 'PRICOL', which was
being used from 1975. From other documents such as Exs.P-7, P-8, P-9 and P-10,
it was found that the defendant had made an application, an advertisement, and
was using the very same trademark 'PRICOL', though for a different product.
From such evidence and documents, the trial court concluded that the plaintiff
was the owner of the copyright 'PRICOL' and was using the trademark for its
products for a long period, much earlier than the defendant, and the defendant
was displaying the very same trademark and the artistic pattern in the
products manufactured and sold by it. Ultimately the trial court held that
even though the goods fall under different classes, since the trademark was
being used by the defendant, there was infringement of the plaintiff's
copyright, which also amounted to passing off the goods of the defendant as
that of the plaintiff. Accordingly the trial court granted a decree in favour
of the plaintiff with regard to infringement of the copyright and trademark.
However, the relief relating to rendition of accounts was not accepted by the
trial court on the ground that the plaintiff had agreed to using of a changed
design till disposal of the suit. Such judgment and decree of the trial court
is the subject matter of these two appeals.
7\. In the Memorandum of Appeals it is contended that, as apparent from the
order of the High Court in O.S.A.NOs.245 and 246 of 1994 against interlocutory
orders, the plaintiff had given up its claim relating to copyright. In such
view of the matter, Section 62 of the Copyright Act was not applicable and
since no cause of action or part of the cause of action relating to passing
off as contemplated under the Trade and Merchandise Marks Act, 1958 had arisen
within the jurisdiction of the Original Side of the Madras High Court, the
suits were not maintainable. It has been further contended in the grounds of
appeal that no order had been passed on the application for joinder of cause
of action under clause 14 of the Letters Patent.
8\. In course of hearing and also in the written submission filed on behalf of
the appellants, the main contention, rather the only contention, raised is
relating to jurisdiction. It has been contended that the trial court has found
that the plaintiff did not object for using of the trademark appended to each
of the affidavits and the trial court had declined the relief relating to
rendition of accounts and since the claim for the copyright had been given up,
there was no jurisdiction to deal with the suit and the reliefs claimed, so
far as they are connected with the Trade and Merchandise Marks Act, 1958. In
support of the contention, learned counsel for the appellant has placed
considerable reliance upon the decision of the Supreme Court reported in
(2006) 9 SCC 41 (M/s. DHODHA HOUSE v. S.K. MAINGI).
9\. Learned counsel appearing for the plaintiff / respondent has, on the other
hand, supported the conclusion of the learned single Judge. She has contended
that since similar facts were involved, the plaintiff could combine the cause
of action arising under the Copyright Act, 1957 as well as the Trade and
Merchandise Marks Act, 1958. It has been further contended that merely because
the plaintiff had given up some claim, it cannot be said that the Court had
lost jurisdiction over the matter.
10\. As already indicated, the main question, rather the only question, is
relating to jurisdiction. So far as the Copyright Act, 1957 is concerned, both
the suits were before the Original Side of the Madras High Court by invoking
Section 62(2) of the Copyright Act. In C.S.No.534 of 1993, an application
purporting to be one under clause 12 of the Letters Patent was filed, numbered
as Application No.2312 of 1993, for grant of leave so far as violation of the
Trade and Merchandise Marks Act was concerned by stating that the cause of
action relating to passing off and violation of the Trade and Merchandise
Marks Act had substantially arisen within the jurisdiction of the Madras High
Court. Leave was granted by order dated 26.4.1993. The defendant therein
(Appellant in OSA.No.377 of 2001) after service of notice had never sought to
revoke such grant of leave. So far as C.S.No.535 of 1993 is concerned, the
plaintiff again relied upon Section 62(2) for the purpose of jurisdiction
relating to violation of the Copyright Act and so far as violation of the
Trade and Merchandise Marks Act was concerned, the plaintiff filed Application
No.2451 of 1993 wherein notice was issued to the defendant. The materials on
record do not indicate regarding filing of any objection by the defendant
(Appellant in OSA.No.378 of 2001) and no specific order seems to have been
passed in such application.
11\. So far as the Trade and Merchandise Marks Act, 1958 is concerned, Section
105 is relevant and it is extracted hereunder :-
"105. Suit for infringement, etc. to be instituted before District Court No
suit -
    	(a) for the infringement of a registered trade 	  	      mark; or
    	(b) relating to any right in a registered trade 	     	     mark; or
    	(c) for passing off arising out of the use by the 	   defendant of any trade mark which is identical 
    with or deceptively similar to the plaintiff's 	    	    trade mark whether registered or unregistered;
    shall be instituted in any court inferior to a District Court having jurisdiction to try the suit."
    	Section 62 of the Copyright Act, 1957 is extracted hereunder:-
    	"62. Jurisdiction of Court over matters arising under this Chapter. - (1) Every suit or other civil proceeding arising under this Chapter in respect of the infringement of copyright in any work or the infringement of any other right conferred by this Act shall be instituted in the district Court having jurisdiction.
(2) For the purpose of sub-section (1), a "district Court having jurisdiction"
shall, notwithstanding anything contained in the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908
(5 of 1908), or any other law for the time being in force, include a district
Court within the local limits of whose jurisdiction, at the time of the
institution of the suit or other proceeding, the person instituting the suit
or other proceeding or, where there are more than one such persons, any of
them actually and voluntarily resides or carries on business or personally
works for gain."
12\. It is interesting to note that in the Trade Marks Act, 1999, whereunder
the Trade and Merchandise Marks Act, 1958 has been repealed, Section 105 of
the Trade and Merchandise Marks Act, 1958 has been re-enacted as Section
134(1). However, a provision similar to Section 62(2) of the Copyright Act has
also been incorporated in the shape of Section 134(2), even though there was
no such provision in the Trade and Merchandise Marks Act, 1958. In the present
case, the suit was filed when the Trade and Merchandise Marks Act, 1958 was in
force.
13\. It is not in dispute that in the two suits, as they were originally
framed, the reliefs sought for were available under the Copyright Act, 1957
and the Trade and Merchandise Marks Act, 1958. So far as the relief relating
to violation of the copyright is concerned, the plaintiff specifically invoked
the principle contained in Section 62(2) of the Copyright Act. It is the
specific case of the plaintiff / respondent that even though the Registered
Office of the plaintiff was at Coimbatore, the plaintiff was carrying on
business at a place within the jurisdiction of the Original Side of the Madras
High Court. This aspect is not in dispute at all.
14\. So far as C.S.No.534 of 1993 is concerned, the plaintiff had alleged that
the defendant has sought for registration of the trademark and had issued
advertisement claiming that he has transactions all over the country and,
therefore, it can be said that part of the cause of action had arisen within
the jurisdiction of the Madras High Court. It is not in dispute that the
plaintiff in such suit has sought for and obtained leave under clause 12 of
the Letters Patent governing the Madras High Court. It is therefore submitted
that since part of the cause of action had arisen and leave of the court had
been obtained, the court can be said to have jurisdiction. In respect of
C.S.No.535 of 1993, which was against the marketing agent of the defendant
M/s. Perfect Automotive Components Limited in the connected suit, clause 14 of
the Letters Patent was applicable. Even the appellant in the Memorandum of
Appeal has admitted that an application seeking for permission to combine two
causes of action under clause 14 was filed, but no order had been passed.
15\. Clauses 12 and 14 of the Letters Patent are extracted hereunder :-
"12. Original jurisdiction as to suits  And We do further ordain that the
said High Court of Judicature at Madras, in exercise of its ordinary original
civil jurisdiction, shall be empowered to receive, try, and determine suits of
every description if, in the case of suits for land or other immovable
property, such land or property shall be situated, or, in all other cases, if
the cause of action shall have arisen, either wholly, or, in case the leave of
the Court shall have been first obtained, in part, within the local limits of
the ordinary original jurisdiction of the said High Court: or if the defendant
at the time of the commencement of the suit shall dwell or carry on business
or personally work for gain, within such limits; except that the said High
Court shall not have such original jurisdiction in cases falling within the
jurisdiction of the Small Cause at Madras, in which the debt or damage, or
value of the property sued for does not exceed hundred rupees. "14. Joinder
of several causes of action. - And We do further ordain that where plaintiff
has several causes of action against defendant, such causes of action not
being for land or other immovable property, and the said High Court shall have
original jurisdiction in respect of one of such causes of action, it shall be
lawful for the said High Court to call on the defendant to show cause why the
several causes of action should not be joined together in one suit, and to
make such order for trial of the same as the High Court shall deem fit."
16\. So far as the dispute relating to violation of the Copyright Act is
concerned, at the time of filing of the suit, jurisdiction of the suit had
been rightly invoked by virtue of Section 62(2) of the Copyright Act. Once it
is held that at the inception the court had jurisdiction to deal with the
question relating to violation of the copyright, the question is whether on
account of the refusal of the trial court to grant the relief relating to the
Copyright Act, can it be said that the trial court did not have jurisdiction
to deal with the matters relating to violation of the passing off coming
within the scope of the Trade and Merchandise Marks Act, 1958.
17\. Since the learned counsel for the appellant has placed strongest possible
reliance upon the decision of the Supreme Court reported in 2006(3) LW 96 =
(2006) 9 SCC 41 (M/s. DHODHA HOUSE v. S.K. MAINGI), it would be appropriate at
this stage to consider the said decision. Two appeals, one against the
decision of the Allahabad High Court and the other against the decision of the
Delhi High Court were taken up together. In both the cases, the question of
territorial jurisdiction of the trial court dealing with the composite suits
containing reliefs relating to the Copyright Act and the Trade and Merchandise
Marks Act was the primary issue. Both the appeals were against the order of
injunction during pendency of the suit and not against the final decision in
the suits.
17.1 In Civil Appeal No.6248 of 1997 filed by M/s. Dhodha House (hereinafter
referred to as "Dhodha House Appeal" for convenience), the concerned suit had
been filed by such appeallant to protect his copyright, trade marks and common
law rights as regard his art work / label / trade mark and wrapper, etc. in
the District Court at Ghazabad. Even though the trial court had granted
injunction during pendency of such suit, the High Court in appeal against such
order of injunction had allowed the appeal solely on the ground of lack of
territorial jurisdiction. The High Court had also observed "Dhodha" is a name
of variety of sweets and it is not a special product, which is manufactured by
the plaintiff alone. In the said case, the appellant was carrying on business
of sweat meats in the district of Ghaziabad, whereas the Respondent was
carrying on a similar business in the name and style of M/s.V.R.K. Todha Sweet
House in the district of Faridkot.
17.2 In Civil Appeal No.16 of 1999, arising against the decision of the Delhi
High Court, the suit had been filed on the Original Side of such court for
perpetual injunction restraining infringement of trade mark, copyright,
trading style, passing off and for rendition of accounts. The plaintiff
claimed that he had registered the trademark 'Field Marshal' and the label
'Field Marshal' was allegedly registered under the Copyright Act and further
the appellant had been printing / publishing the said artistic work titled
'Field Marshal' in all its trade literatures, pamphlets, stickers, calendars,
diaries, etc., and also on the goods manufactured. The first defendant had
been registered under the Companies Act and it proposed to start business in
the trading style of 'Field Marshal'. It was alleged that the goods
manufactured by the defendant were being sold in Delhi. The alleged cause of
action for filing the suit has been averred in para 30, which is extracted :-
"That the goods of the parties bearing the impugned trade marks are also sold
in the Union Territory of Delhi. Trade Marks Journals No. 823 dated 16-9-1983
and No. 876 dated 1-12-1985 and Journal No. 933 dated 16-4-1988 were published
in India by the Trade Marks Registry in respect of applications of the
defendants for registration of the impugned trade marks, including the Union
Territory of Delhi. Therefore, this Honble Court has jurisdiction to
entertain and try the present suit. Moreover, the jurisdiction of this Honble
Court is also attracted in view of Section 62(2) of the Copyright Act. 17.3
The application for injunction was rejected by the learned single Judge inter
alia on the ground that the plaintiff had failed to prima facie show that the
Delhi High Court had territorial jurisdiction and also the pecuniary
jurisdiction. However, the appeal filed by the plaintiff was allowed by the
Division Bench. The Division Bench was of the opinion that a composite suit
based on infringement of trade mark, copyright, passing off and for rendition
of accounts of profit and also injunction having been filed, the Delhi High
Court had the territorial jurisdiction. The Delhi High Court further found
that the plaintiff could seek a restraint order against the threat once it
came to learn that the defendants had applied for registration of trademarks
at Delhi. The High Court, however, had not given any answer as to whether the
defendant had sold goods at Delhi, thereby violating the right of the
plaintiff at Delhi. Such order was challenged by the defendant in appeal
before the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court, while dismissing the appeal
against the decision of the Allahabad High Court and allowing the appeal as
against the decision of the Delhi High Court, inter alia observed as follows
:-
"23. We are not concerned in this case with the maintainability of a composite
suit both under the 1957 Act and the 1958 Act. Indisputably, if such a
situation arises, the same would be permissible; but the same may not be
relevant for the purpose of determining the question of a forum where such
suit can be instituted. Sub-section (2) of Section 62 of the 1957 Act provides
for a non obstante clause conferring jurisdiction upon the District Court
within the local limits of whose jurisdiction, at the time of the institution
of the suit or other proceeding, the persons instituting the suit or other
proceedings have been residing. In terms of sub-section (1) of Section 62,
suit can be instituted and the proceedings can be initiated in respect of
matters arising under the said chapter for infringement of the copyright in
any work or the infringement of any other right conferred thereunder. It does
not confer jurisdiction upon a District Court where the plaintiff resides, if
a cause of action arises under the 1958 Act.
24\. Order 2 Rule 3 of the Code provides that the plaintiff may unite in the
same suit several causes of action against the same defendant, or the same
defendants jointly. The said order contemplates uniting of several causes of
action in the same suit. By necessary implication, a cause of action for
infringement of copyright and a cause of action for infringement of trade mark
or a cause of action of passing off would be different. Even if one cause of
action has no nexus with another, indisputably Order 2 Rule 3 may apply.
However, by reason of application of Order 2 Rule 3 of the Code ipso facto
would not confer jurisdiction upon a court which had none so as to enable it
to consider infringement of trade mark under the 1957 Act as also the 1958
Act.
25\. It is trite law that a judgment and order passed by the court having no
territorial jurisdiction would be a nullity.
26\. In Kiran Singh v. Chaman Paswan (AIR 1954 SC 340), this Court observed:
It is a fundamental principle well established that a decree passed by a
court without jurisdiction is a nullity, and that its invalidity could be set
up whenever and wherever it is sought to be enforced or relied upon, even at
the stage of execution and even in collateral proceedings. A defect of
jurisdiction, whether it is pecuniary or territorial, or whether it is in
respect of the subject-matter of the action, strikes at the very authority of
the court to pass any decree, and such a defect cannot be cured even by
consent of parties.
27\. A judgment or order passed by a court lacking territorial jurisdiction,
thus, would be coram non judice. Thus, if a District Court, where the
plaintiff resides but where no cause of action arose otherwise, adjudicates a
matter relating to infringement of trade mark under the 1958 Act, its judgment
would be a nullity."
17.4 While holding that an earlier decision of the Delhi High Court reported
in 1983 PTC 207 (M/s. Jawahar Engineering Company and Others, Ghaziabad v.
M/s. Jawahar Engineers Pvt. Ltd.,) was not applicable, it was observed :-
"31. The said decision has no application in the instant case for more than
one reason. For the purpose of registration of a trade mark, an application
must be filed in the branch office of the Registrar of Trade Marks. It is not
in dispute that under Section 5(3) of the 1958 Act, the Central Government has
issued a notification in the Official Gazette defining the territorial limits
within which an office of the Trade Marks Registry may exercise its functions.
The office of the Trade Marks Registry at New Delhi exercises jurisdiction
over the States of Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir, Punjab,
Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh and the Union Territory of Chandigarh and the
National Capital Territory of Delhi. Whereas in Dhodha House v. S.K. Maingi no
such application has been filed, admittedly in Patel Field Marshal Industries
v. P.M. Diesels Ltd. the Delhi office has no jurisdiction as parties are
residents of Rajkot and an application was filed by the appellant for
registration of its trade mark at Bombay. If an objection is to be filed, the
same has to be filed at Bombay. An advertisement by itself in a journal or a
paper would not confer jurisdiction upon a court, as would be evident from the
following observations of this Court in Oil and Natural Gas Commission v.
Utpal Kumar Basu [(1994) 4 SCC 711]:
Therefore, broadly speaking, NICCO claims that a part of the cause of action
arose within the jurisdiction of the Calcutta High Court because it became
aware of the advertisement in Calcutta, it submitted its bid or tender from
Calcutta and made representations demanding justice from Calcutta on learning
about the rejection of its offer. The advertisement itself mentioned that the
tenders should be submitted to EIL at New Delhi; that those would be
scrutinised at New Delhi and that a final decision whether or not to award the
contract to the tenderer would be taken at New Delhi. Of course, the execution
of the contract work was to be carried out at Hazira in Gujarat. Therefore,
merely because it read the advertisement at Calcutta and submitted the offer
from Calcutta and made representations from Calcutta would not, in our
opinion, constitute facts forming an integral part of the cause of action. So
also the mere fact that it sent fax messages from Calcutta and received a
reply thereto at Calcutta would not constitute an integral part of the cause
of action.
32\. A cause of action will arise only when a registered trade mark is used
and not when an application is filed for registration of the trade mark. In a
given case, an application for grant of registration certificate may or may
not be allowed. The person in whose favour a registration certificate has
already been granted (sic) indisputably will have an opportunity to oppose the
same by filing an application before the Registrar, who has the requisite
jurisdiction to determine the said question. In other words, a suit may lie
where an infringement of trade mark or copyright takes place but a cause of
action for filing the suit would not arise within the jurisdiction of the
court only because an advertisement has been issued in the Trade Marks Journal
or any other journal, notifying the factum of filing of such an application."
17.5 The Supreme Court specifically extracted the following observations from
the decision of the Madras High Court reported in Premier Distilleries Pvt.
Ltd. v. Shashi Distilleries [2001 PTC 907 (MAD)]:
"The cause of action in a suit for passing off, on the other hand and as
already observed, has nothing at all to do with the location of the
Registrars office or the factum of applying or not applying for registration.
It is wholly unnecessary for the plaintiff to prove that he had applied for
registration. The fact that the plaintiff had not applied for registration
will not improve the case of the defendant either. Filing of an application
for registration of a trade mark, therefore, does not constitute a part of
cause of action where the suit is one for passing off. It was further
observed:
The argument advanced that registration if granted would date back to the
date of application and that the plaintiff would have the right to seek
amendment of the plaint to seek relief on the ground of infringement as well,
is wholly irrelevant so far as the cause of action for bringing a suit for
passing off is concerned. While it may be convenient to the plaintiff to
institute a suit in a court where he may later on be able to bring a suit for
infringement of the trade mark, that convenience of the plaintiff is in no way
relevant for deciding as to whether a cause of action for filing a suit for
passing off can be said to have arisen in a place where, the deceit alleged to
have been practised by the defendant had in fact, not been practised within
the jurisdiction of the court in which the suit is brought. and expressly
approved the same.
It was further observed :-
"46. The Delhi High Court, as noticed hereinbefore, however, did not advert to
the third contention raised therein saying that the question as to whether the
defendants had been selling its product on a commercial scale at Delhi was a
question of fact and, thus, was required to be properly determined in case
evidence is led by the parties.
47\. The short question which arises for consideration is as to whether causes
of action in terms of both the 1957 Act and the 1958 Act although may be
different, would a suit be maintainable in a court only because it has the
jurisdiction to entertain the same in terms of Section 62(2) of the 1957 Act?"
It was further observed :-
"52.In Patel Field Marshal (supra) again the thrust was on the sale of
products and/or advertisement by the appellant for registration of trade marks
in the Trade Marks Journal and other local papers. The Division Bench of the
High Court, as has been noticed hereinbefore, did not advert to the issue as
to whether the defendant had been selling its product in Delhi on a commercial
scale or not. It is, therefore, not necessary for us also to dilate further on
the said question. We have furthermore noticed hereinbefore that the
advertisement appearing in a journal or newspapers by itself would not confer
any jurisdiction on the court, if it otherwise did not have any.
53\. In this case, the Delhi High Court could not have invoked its
jurisdiction in terms of the 1957 Act. The primary ground upon which the
jurisdiction of the original side of the High Court was invoked was the
violation of the 1958 Act, but in relation thereto, the provisions of sub-
section (2) of Section 62 of the 1957 Act could not be invoked.
54\. The plaintiff was not a resident of Delhi. It has not been able to
establish that it carries on any business at Delhi. For our purpose, the
question as to whether the defendant had been selling its produce in Delhi or
not is wholly irrelevant (sic). It is possible that the goods manufactured by
the plaintiff are available in the market of Delhi or they are sold in Delhi
but that by itself would not mean that the plaintiff carries on any business
in Delhi.
55\. It is not in dispute before us that the application for registration of
the trade mark was to be filed either at Bombay or at Ahmedabad. The
objections thereto by the plaintiff were also required to be filed at the said
places. The jurisdiction of the Delhi Court could not have been invoked only
on the ground that the advertisement in respect thereof was published in the
Trade Marks Journal. Section 62 of the 1957 Act, therefore, will have no
application. The plaintiff has no branch office at Delhi. Its manufacturing
facilities are not available at Delhi. Both its trade mark and copyright are
also not registered at Delhi.
. . .
57\. For the purpose of invoking the jurisdiction of a court only because two
causes of action joined in terms of the provisions of the Code of Civil
Procedure, the same would not mean that thereby the jurisdiction can be
conferred upon a court which had jurisdiction to try only the suit in respect
of one cause of action and not the other. Recourse to the additional forum,
however, in a given case, may be taken if both the causes of action arise
within the jurisdiction of the court which otherwise had the necessary
jurisdiction to decide all the issues."
18\. On a careful reading of the aforesaid decision of the Supreme Court, the
following prepositions appear to have been laid down by the Supreme Court :-
"(1) Even if one cause of action has no nexus with another, indisputably Order
II Rule 3 may apply. However, by reason of application of Order II Rule 3 of
the Code ipso facto would not confer jurisdiction upon a court which had none
so as to enable it to consider infringement of trade mark under the Copyright
Act, 1957 as also the Trade and Merchandise Marks Act, 1958. (see para 24) (2)
A judgment or order passed by a court lacking territorial jurisdiction would
be coram non judice. (see paras 25,26 & 27) (3) An advertisement by itself in
a journal or a paper would not confer jurisdiction upon a court. (see para 30)
(4) A cause of action would arise only when a registered trade mark is used
and not when an application is filed for registration of the trade mark. A
suit may lie where an infringement of trade mark or copyright takes place but
a cause of action for filing the suit would not arise within the jurisdiction
of the court only because an advertisement has been issued in the Trade Marks
Journal or any other journal, notifying the factum of filing of such an
application. (see para 32) (5) A decision is an authority what it decides and
not what can logically be deduced from such decision. (see para 37).
19\. Though in first blush it may appear that the aforesaid decision has
created unsurmounted hurdle on the path of the plaintiff/respondent, a careful
reading of the decision, in the light of the other decisions of the Supreme
Court, would make it clear that the aforesaid decision of the Supreme Court
may not be applicable to peculiar facts and circumstances of the present case.
20\. It is of course true that invoking of jurisdiction of a Court for
deciding a matter relating to copyright can be justified under Section 62(2)
of the Copyright Act, 1957, though such a scenario was not available in
respect of the matter coming within the fold of the Trade and Merchandise
Marks Act, 1958 as no provision similar to Section 62 was incorporated under
the Trade and Merchandise Marks Act, 1958. A careful reading of the decision
of the Supreme Court makes it clear that combining of two distinct causes of
action by the plaintiff against the very same defendant, as contemplated under
Order II Rule 3 CPC., would be possible provided the Court had territorial
jurisdiction to try both the suits, if separate suits would have been filed.
Admittedly, in the aforesaid case before the Supreme Court, the question of
jurisdiction was being examined on the anvil of the Code of Civil Procedure.
Clause 14 of the Letters Patent applicable to the Madras High Court, even
though may appear to be a provision similar to Order II Rule 3, a careful look
at such clause in the Letters Patent indicates otherwise.
21\. Clause 14 has already been extracted. For appreciation of the aforesaid
aspect, it would be more appropriate to extract the provisions contained in
Order II Rule 3 along with the provisions contained in Clause 14 of the
Letters patent.
Clause 14 of the Letters Patent Order II Rule 3.
Joinder of several causes of action. - And We do further ordain that where
plaintiff has several causes of action against defendant, such causes of
action not being for land or other immovable property, and the said High Court
shall have original jurisdiction in respect of one of such causes of action,
it shall be lawful for the said High Court to call on the defendant to show
cause why the several causes of action should not be joined together in one
suit, and to make such order for trial of the same as the High Court shall
deem fit.
Joinder of causes of action.-
(1) Save as otherwise provided, a plaintiff may unite in the same suit several
causes of action against the same defendant, or the same defendants jointly;
and any plaintiffs having causes of action in which they are jointly
interested against the same defendant or the same defendants jointly may unite
such causes of action in the same suit.
(2) Where the causes of action are united, the jurisdiction of the Court as
regards the suit shall depend on the amount or value of the aggregate subject
matters at the date of instituting the suit.
22\. Clause 14 of the Letters patent envisages that if the High Court has
original Jurisdiction of one of such causes of action, it shall be lawful for
the said High Court to permit combining of several causes of action and to
make such order for trial of the same as the High Court shall deem fit. In the
context of the difference in the language employed in Order II Rule 3 as
compared to Clause 14 of the Letters Patent, the ratio of the decision of the
Supreme Court would not be applicable.
23\. It is of course true that Clause 14 requires that the High Court before
permitting the plaintiff to join together several causes of action, is
required to call upon the defendant to show cause why several causes of action
should not be joined together and to make such order for trial as it deem fit.
In the present case, there is no dispute that the plaintiff had combined two
separate causes of action, one relating to violation of the copyright and the
other relating to passing off coming within the purview of the Trade and
Merchandise Marks Act, 1958. In C.S.No.534 of 1993, the plaintiff had obtained
leave presumably under Clause 12 of the Letters Patent on the footing that
part of the cause of action had arisen within the jurisdiction of the Madras
High Court on account of publication of the notice in the trademark journal,
wherein it was claimed that the defendant had transactions all over the
country. (It is of course doubtful as to whether it can be said that such
cause of action had arisen in part within the jurisdiction of the Madras High
Court in view of the observation of the Supreme Court in Dhodha House case
that mere filing of application for registration of the trade mark or
publication of the notice or advertisement in the trade mark journal would not
give rise to a cause of action within the concerned area).
24\. It is the undisputed case of both the sides that in the connected suit
C.S.No.535 of 1993, which had been filed by the same plaintiff against the
marketing agent of the defendant in the earlier suit, an application purported
to be under Clause 14 of the Letters Patent has been filed. It is not clear
whether any specific order has been passed in the said application.
(Unfortunately, in the background of shoddy maintenance of order-sheet in the
Madras High Court, it is not possible to even find out as to whether any order
had been passed or not). The fact remains, however, that leave had been
obtained in the other suit. Both the suits were being taken up together at all
relevant stages including while considering the applications for injunction
and considering the appeals against such interim orders of injunction and were
tried together and even common evidence was recorded. The defendant in both
the suits for all practical purposes is the same, keeping in view the fact
that one was the manufacturer and the other was the marketing agent.
25\. Even though the defendant had raised the question of jurisdiction, no
efforts had been made to revoke the leave granted in C.S.No.534 of 1993. This
is not to suggest that even if leave is not revoked a party is precluded from
raising the question, but, in our considered opinion, in the peculiar facts
and circumstances of the present case, it can be said that the High Court by
necessary implication had given a direction for combining the two separate
causes of action which were composite in nature. The possibility of filing a
composite suit containing the reliefs available under the Copyright Act, 1957
and the Trade and Merchandise Marks Act, 1958 is long recognised in series of
judgments in the Madras High Court and even in Dhodha House case relied upon
strongly by the appellant, wherein it was observed :-
"23. We are not concerned in the case with the maintainability of a composite
suit both under the 1957 Act and the 1958 Act. Indisputably, if such a
situation arises, the same would be permissible."
26\. In the above view of the matter, we are of the considered opinion that
the trial court had undoubted jurisdiction under Section 62(2) of the
Copyright Act, 1957 over the matter relating to violation of the provisions of
the Copyright Act and the cause of action and so far as the relief relating to
the Trade and Merchandise Marks Act, 1958 is concerned, it could be combined
in view of the provisions contained in Clause 14 of the Letters Patent.
27\. Learned counsel for the appellant has vehemently contended that since in
the OSA.Nos.245 and 246 of 1994, relating to interlocutory application for
injunction, the defendant had been permitted to use a design as approved by
the Division Bench and since the relief claimed by the plaintiff relating to
rendering of accounts for the alleged violation of the copyright had been
negatived by the learned single Judge, it can be said that the alleged cause
of action relating to the Copyright Act does not survive as having been
abandoned and the court will have no jurisdiction whatsoever relating to the
cause of action coming within the purview of the Trade and Merchandise Marks
Act, 1958.
28\. To appreciate such contention, it would be more appropriate to extract
the orders dated 14.9.1994 and 28.9.1994 in O.S.A.Nos.245 and 246 of 1994 :-
Order dated 14.9.1994 "The appeals arise out of interlocutory orders
restraining the appellants from committing infringement of the copyright of
the plaintiffs in their artistic work contained in the style of printing
'PRICOL' with starts and the artistic work, in any manner by distributing,
printing or causing to be printed the impugned style of writing the word
'PRICOL' and artistic work or in any other style or writing, which is an
imitation or infringement of the plaintiff's work.
2\. The respondent has entered caveat and learned Senior Counsel appearing for
the respondent represented that if the appellants give an undertaking that
they would not use the artistic design belonging to the respondent, the
appeals can be disposed of on that basis; and the rights of the respondent
relating to passing off will be claimed in the proceeding pending before the
learned Single Judge. We have directed now learned counsel for the appellants
to produce copies of the new design said to have been adopted by the appellant
and also file an affidavit by an authorised person undertaking that the
appellants will not use the artistic work and the style of writing belonging
to the respondent till the disposal of the suit."
Order dated 28.9.1994 "Pursuant to our Order dated 14-9-1994, an affidavit has
been filed by the Appellant in each case. In paragraph-4 of the affidavit, it
is stated as follows :-
"4. I state that the Appellant will not use the design as found in document
No.4 or otherwise use a design which is deceptively similar to the
Respondent's design in document No.3 to the Plaint. I also append herewith the
design that is currently being used by the Appellant, and submit that only
such design, or other similar design, which is not deceptively similar to the
Respondent's design in document No.3 shall be adopted and used by the
Appellant herein".
A design is appended to each of the affidavit. It is now stated by learned
counsel for the respondent that the design appended to the affidavits does not
infringe the copyright of the respondent and he has no objection to the
Appellant using the said design till the disposal of the suit subject to the
decision in O.A.NoS.361 and 363 of 1993. The above statement is recorded.
2\. The appeals are allowed accordingly permitting the appellant in each
appeal to use the design appended to the affidavit till the disposal of the
suit. This will, however, be subject to the decision in O.A.Nos.361 and 363 of
1993 by the learned single Judge, which relates to passing off on the footing
that the use of the word "PRICOL' is itself objectionable. No costs."
(Emphasis added by us)
29\. In the aforesaid order of the Division Bench, passed during pendency of
the suit, no where it is indicated that the plaintiff had abandoned the cause
of action relating to the Copyright Act, 1957. On the other hand, the Division
Bench had passed the order only recognizing the interim arrangement to use the
design appended to the affidavit till the disposal of the suit, but
nevertheless subject to the decision in O.A.Nos.361 and 363 of 1993, which
relate to passing off relatable to the word "PRICOL" itself is objectionable.
It may be that the learned single Judge under the present impugned judgment
has thought it fit not to grant the relief of rendering of accounts. It has to
be remembered that the learned single Judge had granted injunction in respect
of the alleged violation relating to the Copyright Act as well as the Trade
and Merchandise Marks Act, 1958. It cannot be said that the plaintiff's
projected cause of action relatable to the Copyright Act was frivolous and
calculated to clutch at the jurisdiction. In other words, the trial court had
jurisdiction initially and may be at the time it has decided the relief
relatable to the Copyright Act, it was either given up in view of the
subsequent event or not pressed. Under such circumstances, we are unable to
accept the contention that the court did not have the continued jurisdiction
to deal with the matter.
30\. Even assuming that the Original Side of the Madras High Court did not
have any jurisdiction, the question arises as to whether the appellate court
should interfere with the ultimate finding and the decision of the trial
court. Section 21(1) of the Code of the Civil Procedure is extracted hereunder
:-
"21. Objection to jurisdiction. - (1) No objection as to place of suing shall
be allowed by any appellate or revisional Court unless such objection was
taken in the Court of first instance at the earliest possible opportunity and
in all cases where issues are settled at or before such settlement, and unless
there has been a consequent failure of justice." (Emphasis added)
31\. Even though by virtue of Section 120 CPC., Sections 16, 17 and 20 CPC are
made inapplicable to any High Court in the exercise of its Original civil
jurisdiction, there is no such exclusion so far as Section 21 CPC is
concerned. A bare reading of Section 21 makes it clear that objection relating
to place of suing shall not be allowed by the appellate court unless such
objection is taken at the first instance and such objection is raised at the
earliest opportunity and unless there has been a consequent failure of
justice.
32\. In AIR 1981 SC 1683 = (1981) 3 SCC 589 (PATHUMMA & OTHERS v. KUNTALAN
KUTTY dead by LRs & OTHERS), while referring to Section 21(1) of the Civil
Procedure Code, it was observed :-
"In order that an objection to the place of suing may be entertained by an
appellate or revisional court, the fulfilment of the following three
conditions is essential:
(1) The objection was taken in the Court of first instance.
(2) It was taken at the earliest possible opportunity and in cases where
issues are settled, at or before such settlement.
(3) There has been a consequent failure of justice. All these three
conditions must co-exist.
Now in the present case Conditions 1 and 2 are no doubt fully satisfied; but
then before the two appellate courts below could allow the objection to be
taken, it was further necessary that a case of failure of justice on account
of the place of suing having been wrongly selected was made out. ..."
(Emphasis added by the Supreme Court)
33\. The aforesaid observation was followed by the Madras High Court in the
decision reported in 1994 MLJ 258 (PARAMOUNT GROUP PVT. LTD. v. TAMIL NADU
INDUSTRIAL INVESTMENT CORPORATION LIMITED).
34\. While considering a similar question in AIR 1993 SC 2094 = (1993) 2 SCC
130 (R.S.D.V. FINANCE CO. PVT. LTD., v. SHREE VALLABH GLASS WORKS LTD.,), the
Supreme Court observed :-
"7. . . . The Division Bench was totally wrong in passing an order of
dismissal of suit itself when it had arrived to the conclusion that the Bombay
Court had no jurisdiction to try the suit. The only course to be adopted in
such circumstances was to return the plaint for presentation to the proper
court and not to dismiss the suit. It may be further noted that the learned
Single Judge trying the suit had recorded a finding that the Bombay Court had
jurisdiction to entertain and decide the suit. Sub-section (1) of Section 21
of the Code of Civil Procedure provides that no objection as to the place of
suing shall be allowed by any appellate or revisional court unless such
objection was taken in the court of first instance at the earliest possible
opportunity and in all cases where issues are settled at or before such
settlement and unless there has been consequent failure of justice. The above
provision clearly lays down that such objection as to the place of suing shall
be allowed by the appellate or revisional court subject to the following
conditions:
(i) That such objection was taken in the court of first instance at the
earliest possible opportunity;
(ii) in all cases where issues are settled then at or before such settlement
of issues;
(iii) there has been a consequent failure of justice.
8\. In the present case though the first two conditions are satisfied but the
third condition of failure of justice is not fulfilled. As already mentioned
above there was no dispute regarding the merits of the claim. The defendant
has admitted the deposit of Rs 10,00,000 by the plaintiff, as well as the
issuing of the five cheques. We are thus clearly of the view that there is no
failure of justice to the defendant by decreeing of the suit by the learned
Single Judge of the Bombay High Court, on the contrary it would be totally
unjust and failure of justice to the plaintiff in case such objection relating
to jurisdiction is to be maintained as allowed by the Division Bench of the
High Court in its appellate jurisdiction."
(Emphasis added)
35\. In AIR 1954 SC 340 (KIRAN SINGH AND OTHERS v. CHAMAN PASWAN AND OTHERS),
the plaintiffs filed the suit in the Court of the Subordinate Judge and valued
it at Rs.2950/-. The said suit having been dismissed by the trial Court,
plaintiffs filed an appeal before the Court of the District Judge. The First
Appellate Court confirmed the judgment of the trial Court and dismissed the
appeal. Plaintiffs filed a Second Appeal in the High Court. In the High Court
Stamp Reporter raised an objection regarding the value of the suit. Question
was referred to the Court and it was determined that correct valuation of the
suit was Rs.9980/-. After revision of valuation, plaintiffs raised an
objection in the High Court that the appeal from the decree of the Subordinate
Judge (trial Court) would lie not to the District Court, but directly to the
High Court and it was urged that the appeal should be heard as a first appeal
ignoring the judgment of the District Court. The High Court rejected the said
contention and dismissed the second appeal. Plaintiffs approached the Supreme
Court. By an elaborate judgment, the Supreme Court negatived the contentions
of the plaintiff and clarified the position of law. It was held by the Supreme
Court as follows :-
"7. ... With reference to objections relating to territorial jurisdiction,
Section 21 of the Civil Procedure Code enacts that no objection to the place
of suing should be allowed by an appellate or Revisional Court, unless there
was a consequent failure of justice. It is the same principle that has been
adopted in Section 11 of the Suits Valuation Act with reference to pecuniary
jurisdiction. The policy underlying Sections 21 and 99 of the Civil Procedure
Code and Section 11 of the Suits Valuation Act is the same, namely, that when
a case had been tried by a court on the merits and judgment rendered, it
should not be liable to be reversed purely on technical grounds, unless it had
resulted in failure of justice, and the policy of the legislature has been to
treat objections to jurisdiction both territorial and pecuniary as technical
and not open to consideration by an appellate court, unless there has been a
prejudice on the merits. The contention of the appellants, therefore, that the
decree and judgment of the District Court, Monghyr, should be treated as a
nullity cannot be sustained under Section 11 of the Suits Valuation Act.
. . .
12\. If the fact of an appeal being heard by a Subordinate Court or District
Court where the appeal would have lain to the High Court if the correct
valuation had been given is itself a matter of prejudice, then the decree
passed by the Subordinate Court or the District Court must, without more, be
liable to be set aside, and the words unless the overvaluation or
undervaluation thereof has prejudicially affected the disposal of the suit or
appeal on its merits would become wholly useless. These words clearly show
that the decrees passed in such cases are liable to be interfered with in an
appellate court, not in all cases and as a matter of course, but only if
prejudice such as is mentioned in the section results. And the prejudice
envisaged by that section therefore must be something other than the appeal
being heard in a different forum. A contrary conclusion will lead to the
surprising result that the section was enacted with the object of curing
defects of jurisdiction arising by reason of overvaluation or undervaluation,
but that, in fact, this object has not been achieved. We are therefore clearly
of opinion that the prejudice contemplated by the section is something
different from the fact of the appeal having been heard in a forum which would
not have been competent to hear it on a correct valuation of the suit as
ultimately determined."
(Emphasis added)
36\. In AIR 2000 ALL 166 (KM. RAKHI AND ANOTHER v. Ist ADDITIONAL DISTRICT
JUDGE, FIROZABAD AND OTHERS), it has been observed :-
"29. ... The Apex Court in the case of Kiran v. Chaman, AIR 1954 SC 340, had
held that policy of legislation of Section 21 of the Code is the same as in
Section 99 of the Code and Section 11 of the Suits Valuation Act."
The Allahabad High Court had also followed the ratio laid down in the
decisions reported in AIR 1981 SC 1683 and AIR 1993 SC 2094 (cited supra).
37\. In AIR 1962 SC 199 (HIRA LAL PATNI v. SRI KALI NATH), the appellant
before the Supreme Court had engaged the services of the respondent to
negotiate the bill relating to acquisition of shares in certain mills. The
respondent instituted the suit on the original side of the Bombay High Court
for recovery of his commission and the matter was referred to arbitration. One
of the defences taken by the appellant was that the suit filed in the Bombay
High Court was outside the territorial jurisdiction of the Bombay High Court
in the Original Side. Ultimately, the award passed by the arbitrator was
confirmed by the Bombay High Court. The decree incorporating such award was
transferred to the District Court, Agra for execution. The appellant, as the
judgment debtor, filed Objection under Section 47 and 151 of the Code of Civil
Procedure objecting to the execution of the decree inter alia on the ground
that Bombay High Court had no jurisdiction to entertain the suit and to make
the award a decree of the court. The objection was rejected by the executing
court and the appeal was dismissed by the Allahabad High Court. In appeal
against such order before the Supreme Court, the only contention raised was to
the effect that the suit instituted on the Original Side of the Bombay High
Court was incompetent for want of territorial jurisdiction and, therefore, the
award and the subsequent decree of the court were null and void. While
repelling such contention, it was observed :-
"4. . . . In our opinion, there is no substance in this contention. There was
no inherent lack of jurisdiction in the Bombay High Court where the suit was
instituted by the plaintiff-decree holder. The plaint had been filed after
obtaining the necessary leave of the High Court under clause 12 of the Letters
Patent. Whether the leave obtained had been rightly obtained or wrongly
obtained is not a matter which can be agitated at the execution stage. The
validity of a decree can be challenged in execution proceedings only on the
ground that the court which passed the decree was lacking in inherent
jurisdiction in the sense that it could not have seizin of the case because
the subject-matter was wholly foreign to its jurisdiction or that the
defendant was dead at the time the suit had been instituted or decree passed,
or some such other ground which could have the effect of rendering the court
entirely lacking in jurisdiction in respect of the subject-matter of the suit
or over the parties to it. But in the instant case there was no such inherent
lack of jurisdiction.
The decision of the Privy Council in the case of 13 Ind.App.134 (P.C.) is an
authority for the proposition that consent or waiver can cure defect of
jurisdiction but cannot cure inherent lack of jurisdiction. In that case, the
suit had been instituted in the Court of the Subordinate Judge, who was
incompetent to try it. By consent of the parties, the case was transferred to
the Court of the District Judge for convenience of trial. It was laid down by
the Privy Council that as the court in which the suit had been originally
instituted was entirely lacking in jurisdiction, in the sense that it was
incompetent to try it, whatever happened subsequently was null and void
because consent of parties could not operate to confer jurisdiction on a court
which was incompetent to try the suit. That decision has no relevance to a
case like the present where there could be no question of inherent lack of
jurisdiction in the sense that the Bombay High Court was incompetent to try a
suit of that kind. The objection to its territorial jurisdiction is one which
does not go to the competence of the court and can, therefore, be waived. In
the instant case, when the plaintiff obtained the leave of the Bombay High
Court on the original side, under clause 12 of the Letters Patent, the
correctness of the procedure or of the order granting the leave could be
questioned by the defendant or the objection could be waived by him. When he
agreed to refer the matter to arbitration through court, he would be deemed to
have waived his objection to the territorial jurisdiction of the court, raised
by him in his written statement. It is well settled that the objection as to
local jurisdiction of a court does not stand on the same footing as an
objection to the competence of a court to try a case. Competence of a court to
try a case goes to the very root of the jurisdiction, and where it is lacking,
it is a case of inherent lack of jurisdiction. On the other hand, an objection
as to the local jurisdiction of a court can be waived and this principle has
been given a statutory recognition by enactments like Section 21 of the Code
of Civil Procedure. . . ."
Incidentally that was a case where the original side jurisdiction of the
Bombay High Court had been invoked.
38\. In Dhodha House case, even though there is passing reference to the
decision of the Supreme Court reported in AIR 1954 SC 340 (cited supra), no
reference has been made to Sections 21(1), 99 CPC as well as the decisions of
the Supreme Court in AIR 1962 SC 199, which was the decision rendered by four
Judges, AIR 1981 SC 1683, which was the decision rendered by three Judges, and
AIR 1993 SC 2094, which was the decision rendered by three Judges.
39\. In the present case, as we have already emphasised several times, the
sole contention, which was presented at the time of hearing and in the written
submissions, is relating to lack of territorial jurisdiction regarding cause
of action arising under the Trade and Merchandise Marks Act, 1958. There is no
whisper either in the Memorandum of appeal or during the course of argument
regarding any prejudice caused to the appellants on account of the trial of
the suit by the Madras High Court. Learned counsel for the appellant has
fairly conceded that the plaintiff could have filed the suit at Coimbatore. If
such a suit would have been filed at Coimbatore on the allegation of violation
of the Trade and Merchandise Marks Act, the appeal would have been heard and
disposed of by the same High Court. Even assuming that such appeal would have
been heard by a single Judge and the present appeal has been heard by a
Division Bench, we do not think this can be considered as a prejudice (see AIR
1954 SC 340). It is not the case of the appellant that on account of the trial
being taken up at Madras, the appellant was prevented from pursuing the matter
diligently. Therefore, we do not find any prejudice whatsoever has been caused
to the appellants, even assuming that the court had no territorial
jurisdiction to deal with the matter. Under such circumstances, the question
arises is whether the decision of the Supreme Court in Dhodha House case can
be said to have been rendered per incuriam. One has to remember that the said
decision was rendered in the context of the orders of injunction under Order
39 Rule 1 and 2 CPC., during pendency of the suit. Since on the face of it the
courts did not have any jurisdiction, the Supreme Court apparently upheld such
contention. Since the question relating to jurisdiction was raised in an
interlocutory matter during pendency of the suit, the third condition
envisaged under Section 21(1) of the CPC was not relevant as the trial was yet
to take place.
40\. In the above view of the matter, it can be argued fairly by the plaintiff
/ respondent that even assuming that there was no territorial jurisdiction,
since no prejudice has been caused to the appellant and since substantial
justice has been done, the appellate court should not interfere with the order
of the trial court.
41\. For the aforesaid reasons, we do not find any merit in these appeals,
which are accordingly dismissed. No costs.
dpk To The Sub-Asst. Registrar, Original Side, High Court, Madras
diligently. Therefore, we do not find any prejudice whatsoever has been caused
to the appellants, even assuming that the court had no territorial
jurisdiction to deal with the matter. Under such circumstances, the question
arises is whether the decision of the Supreme Court in Dhodha House case can
be said to have been rendered per incuriam. One has to remember that the said
decision was rendered in the context of the orders of injunction under Order
39 Rule 1 and 2 CPC., during pendency of the suit. Since on the face of it the
courts did not have any jurisdiction, the Supreme Court apparently upheld such
contention. Since the question relating to jurisdiction was raised in an
interlocutory matter during pendency of the suit, the third condition
envisaged under Section 21(1) of the CPC was not relevant as the trial was yet
to take place.
40\. In the above view of the matter, it can be argued fairly by the plaintiff
/ respondent that even assuming that there was no territorial jurisdiction,
since no prejudice has been caused to the appellant and since substantial
justice has been done, the appellate court should not interfere with the order
    New Delhi 110 002.					..  Appellant in
    								    OSA.No.378 of 2001
    					Vs.
    M/s. Premier Instruments & Controls Ltd.,
    No.6, Church Lane, Ritherdon Road,
    Vepery, Madras 7.					..  Respondent in
both OSAs Appeals filed under Order 36 Rule 1 of the O.S. Rules and Clause 15
of the Letters Patent against the common judgment dated 3.2.2000 passed in
C.S.Nos.534 & 535 of 1993 passed by the learned single Judge.
    		For Appellant in		:  M/s.V. Nataraj
    		both OSAs			         B. Giridhar Rao
    		For Respondent in
    		both OSAs			:  Mrs. Gladys Daniel
    - - -
    COMMON JUDGMENT
    P.K. MISRA, J
These two appeals were heard earlier and judgment was reserved in 2007.
However, the judgment could not be prepared and pronounced earlier on account
of the posting of the concerned Judges at Madurai at different times and the
resultant dislocation of the relevant files. Thereafter, the matter was again
diligently. Therefore, we do not find any prejudice whatsoever has been caused
to the appellants, even assuming that the court had no territorial
jurisdiction to deal with the matter. Under such circumstances, the question
arises is whether the decision of the Supreme Court in Dhodha House case can
be said to have been rendered per incuriam. One has to remember that the said
decision was rendered in the context of the orders of injunction under Order
39 Rule 1 and 2 CPC., during pendency of the suit. Since on the face of it the
courts did not have any jurisdiction, the Supreme Court apparently upheld such
contention. Since the question relating to jurisdiction was raised in an
interlocutory matter during pendency of the suit, the third condition
envisaged under Section 21(1) of the CPC was not relevant as the trial was yet
to take place.
40\. In the above view of the matter, it can be argued fairly by the plaintiff
/ respondent that even assuming that there was no territorial jurisdiction,
since no prejudice has been caused to the appellant and since substantial
justice has been done, the appellate court should not interfere with the order
    New Delhi 110 002.					..  Appellant in
    								    OSA.No.378 of 2001
    					Vs.
    M/s. Premier Instruments & Controls Ltd.,
    No.6, Church Lane, Ritherdon Road,
    Vepery, Madras 7.					..  Respondent in
both OSAs Appeals filed under Order 36 Rule 1 of the O.S. Rules and Clause 15
of the Letters Patent against the common judgment dated 3.2.2000 passed in
C.S.Nos.534 & 535 of 1993 passed by the learned single Judge.
    		For Appellant in		:  M/s.V. Nataraj
    		both OSAs			         B. Giridhar Rao
    		For Respondent in
    		both OSAs			:  Mrs. Gladys Daniel
    - - -
    COMMON JUDGMENT
    P.K. MISRA, J
These two appeals were heard earlier and judgment was reserved in 2007.
However, the judgment could not be prepared and pronounced earlier on account
of the posting of the concerned Judges at Madurai at different times and the
resultant dislocation of the relevant files. Thereafter, the matter was again
diligently. Therefore, we do not find any prejudice whatsoever has been caused
to the appellants, even assuming that the court had no territorial
jurisdiction to deal with the matter. Under such circumstances, the question
arises is whether the decision of the Supreme Court in Dhodha House case can
be said to have been rendered per incuriam. One has to remember that the said
decision was rendered in the context of the orders of injunction under Order
39 Rule 1 and 2 CPC., during pendency of the suit. Since on the face of it the
courts did not have any jurisdiction, the Supreme Court apparently upheld such
contention. Since the question relating to jurisdiction was raised in an
interlocutory matter during pendency of the suit, the third condition
envisaged under Section 21(1) of the CPC was not relevant as the trial was yet
to take place.
40\. In the above view of the matter, it can be argued fairly by the plaintiff
/ respondent that even assuming that there was no territorial jurisdiction,
since no prejudice has been caused to the appellant and since substantial
justice has been done, the appellate court should not interfere with the order
    New Delhi 110 002.					..  Appellant in
    								    OSA.No.378 of 2001
    					Vs.
    M/s. Premier Instruments & Controls Ltd.,
    No.6, Church Lane, Ritherdon Road,
    Vepery, Madras 7.					..  Respondent in
both OSAs Appeals filed under Order 36 Rule 1 of the O.S. Rules and Clause 15
of the Letters Patent against the common judgment dated 3.2.2000 passed in
C.S.Nos.534 & 535 of 1993 passed by the learned single Judge.
    		For Appellant in		:  M/s.V. Nataraj
    		both OSAs			         B. Giridhar Rao
    		For Respondent in
    		both OSAs			:  Mrs. Gladys Daniel
    - - -
    COMMON JUDGMENT
    P.K. MISRA, J
These two appeals were heard earlier and judgment was reserved in 2007.
However, the judgment could not be prepared and pronounced earlier on account
of the posting of the concerned Judges at Madurai at different times and the
resultant dislocation of the relevant files. Thereafter, the matter was again
listed for hearing on 24.3.2008, on which date the counsels for both the
parties were heard at length and the matter was reserved for judgment.
Subsequently, the counsels for the parties have also filed their written
submissions.
2\. O.S.A.No.377 of 2001 is filed by M/s. Perfect Automotive Components, the
sole defendant in C.S.No.534 of 1993. O.S.A.No.378 of 2001 is filed by M/s.
Pricol Lubricants (India) Pvt. Ltd., the sole defendant in C.S.No.535 of 1993.
Both the above suits were brought by Premier Instruments & Controls Limited, a
private limited company, the common respondent in both the appeals. Such
plaintiff company, originally named as Premier Instruments Coimbatore Limited,
was incorporated on 6.3.1972. Subsequently, it was renamed as Premier
diligently. Therefore, we do not find any prejudice whatsoever has been caused
to the appellants, even assuming that the court had no territorial
jurisdiction to deal with the matter. Under such circumstances, the question
arises is whether the decision of the Supreme Court in Dhodha House case can
be said to have been rendered per incuriam. One has to remember that the said
decision was rendered in the context of the orders of injunction under Order
39 Rule 1 and 2 CPC., during pendency of the suit. Since on the face of it the
courts did not have any jurisdiction, the Supreme Court apparently upheld such
contention. Since the question relating to jurisdiction was raised in an
interlocutory matter during pendency of the suit, the third condition
envisaged under Section 21(1) of the CPC was not relevant as the trial was yet
to take place.
40\. In the above view of the matter, it can be argued fairly by the plaintiff
/ respondent that even assuming that there was no territorial jurisdiction,
since no prejudice has been caused to the appellant and since substantial
justice has been done, the appellate court should not interfere with the order
    New Delhi 110 002.					..  Appellant in
    								    OSA.No.378 of 2001
    					Vs.
    M/s. Premier Instruments & Controls Ltd.,
    No.6, Church Lane, Ritherdon Road,
    Vepery, Madras 7.					..  Respondent in
both OSAs Appeals filed under Order 36 Rule 1 of the O.S. Rules and Clause 15
of the Letters Patent against the common judgment dated 3.2.2000 passed in
C.S.Nos.534 & 535 of 1993 passed by the learned single Judge.
    		For Appellant in		:  M/s.V. Nataraj
    		both OSAs			         B. Giridhar Rao
    		For Respondent in
    		both OSAs			:  Mrs. Gladys Daniel
    - - -
    COMMON JUDGMENT
    P.K. MISRA, J
These two appeals were heard earlier and judgment was reserved in 2007.
However, the judgment could not be prepared and pronounced earlier on account
of the posting of the concerned Judges at Madurai at different times and the
resultant dislocation of the relevant files. Thereafter, the matter was again
listed for hearing on 24.3.2008, on which date the counsels for both the
parties were heard at length and the matter was reserved for judgment.
Subsequently, the counsels for the parties have also filed their written
submissions.
2\. O.S.A.No.377 of 2001 is filed by M/s. Perfect Automotive Components, the
sole defendant in C.S.No.534 of 1993. O.S.A.No.378 of 2001 is filed by M/s.
Pricol Lubricants (India) Pvt. Ltd., the sole defendant in C.S.No.535 of 1993.
Both the above suits were brought by Premier Instruments & Controls Limited, a
private limited company, the common respondent in both the appeals. Such
plaintiff company, originally named as Premier Instruments Coimbatore Limited,
was incorporated on 6.3.1972. Subsequently, it was renamed as Premier
diligently. Therefore, we do not find any prejudice whatsoever has been caused
to the appellants, even assuming that the court had no territorial
jurisdiction to deal with the matter. Under such circumstances, the question
arises is whether the decision of the Supreme Court in Dhodha House case can
be said to have been rendered per incuriam. One has to remember that the said
decision was rendered in the context of the orders of injunction under Order
39 Rule 1 and 2 CPC., during pendency of the suit. Since on the face of it the
courts did not have any jurisdiction, the Supreme Court apparently upheld such
contention. Since the question relating to jurisdiction was raised in an
interlocutory matter during pendency of the suit, the third condition
envisaged under Section 21(1) of the CPC was not relevant as the trial was yet
to take place.
40\. In the above view of the matter, it can be argued fairly by the plaintiff
/ respondent that even assuming that there was no territorial jurisdiction,
since no prejudice has been caused to the appellant and since substantial
justice has been done, the appellate court should not interfere with the order
