Delhi High Court
M/S. International Film ... vs Shri Rishi Raj on 23 October, 2008
Author: Manmohan Singh
     *            HIGH COURT OF DELHI : NEW DELHI
    +                       FAO (OS) No.81/2002
                                       Reserved on :         5th August, 2008
                                                             rd
    %                                  Decided on:         23 October, 2008
    M/s INTERNATIONAL FILM DISTRIBUTORS         ...Appellant
                    Through : Mr. D.S. Narula, Adv. with Mr. A.S.
                              Narula,Adv.
                            Versus
    SHRI RISHI RAJ                                       ....Respondent
                            Through : Mr. Harish Malhotra, Sr. Adv.
                                      with Mr. Vipul Gupta, Adv.
    Coram:
    HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE A.K. SIKRI
    HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE MANMOHAN SINGH
    1. Whether the Reporters of local papers may
       be allowed to see the judgment?
45\. In view of the above, we modify the interim order by allowing the
defendant for exploitation, distribution and exhibition commercially FAO (OS)
No.81/2002 Page 25 of 26 as well as non-commercially in respect of the said
picture Kohinoor in 35 mm as well as in reduced size or sizes including the
right of Television or all other rights attached to such distribution,
exploitation and exhibition of the said picture Kohinoor in the contracted
territories excluding India, Burma, Pakistan, Ceylon, Aden, continent of
Africa, complete S.U., Sunny, Middle East, complete Far East, West Indies,
Fiji, U.K. and Greece as per agreement dated 13th October, 1961 and 9th
October, 1963. However, the interim order would continue in respect of the
countries specifically excluded in the agreement as pointed out above, till
the disposal of the suit. The appeal is partly allowed in the aforesaid terms.
No costs.
46\. Needless to say that the prima facie view taken by us in the present case
and any observations made herein shall be treated as tentative in nature and
shall not constitute any expression of final opinion on the issues involved in
       be allowed to see the judgment?
    2. To be referred to Reporter or not?
    3. Whether the judgment should be reported               Yes
       in the Digest?
    MANMOHAN SINGH, J.
1\. This appeal is directed against the order dated 18th January, 2002 passed
by the learned Single Judge of this Court whereby the appellant‟s (hereinafter
referred to as „defendant‟) application under Order 7 Rule 10 of the CPC being
I.A. No. 8262/2000 seeking return of the plaint to the respondent (hereinafter
referred to as „plaintiff") to be presented in the court having proper
jurisdiction was dismissed and plaintiff‟s application under Order 39 Rule 1
and 2 of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 being I.A. No. 7236/2000 seeking
injunction FAO (OS) No.81/2002 Page 1 of 26 restraining the Defendant, its
employees, agents and representatives from in any manner interfering in the
negative rights, sole and exclusive commercial and non-commercial video rights
in all formats, including CVD, DVD, satellite and television rights (both
terrestrial and extra- terrestrial), cable T.V. rights, pay T.V. rights and
the available theatrical rights for all India and overseas territories i.e.
the entire world including India, in picture „KOHINOOR‟ till the disposal of
the suit has been allowed.
2\. Brief facts relevant for deciding this appeal are that the plaintiff is
carrying on the business of film distribution, exhibition and exploitation of
cinematographic films and is also dealing in satellite right and negative
rights of cinematograph films.
3\. A cinematographic film „KOHINOOR‟ was produced by M/s Republic Films
Corporation, whose producer was later declared as insolvent and all assets of
the said producer were taken over by the Official Assignee of Bombay High
Court and thus the entire negative right of the picture „KOHINOOR‟ including
the negative rights, sole and exclusive commercial and non-commercial video
rights in all formats including CVD, DVD, satellite and television rights
(both terrestrial and extra terrestrial), cable TV, Pay TV rights and the
available theatrical rights for All India and overseas territories i.e. the
entire world including India allegedly vest with the Official Assignee of the
Bombay High Court.
4\. One M/s A.G. Exports who were already enjoying the rights of the above
said movie made an offer of Rs. 75,000/- on 1st June, 2000 FAO (OS) No.81/2002
Page 2 of 26 to the Official Assignee for acquiring the sole and exclusive
rights for further 10 years from 1st January, 2000.
5\. The Official Assignee made a similar offer to various people including the
plaintiff vide letter dated 27 th July, 2000 whereby it was made clear that
the distribution rights of the said picture are perpetually held by M/s Seth &
Sayyed for U.P., Delhi, East Punjab, CPCI, Nizam Circuit under agreement dated
24th August, 1962, thus, only the other rights were available with the
Official Assignee for sale.
6\. It was submitted that at the first instance, the plaintiff in response to
the said letter, made an offer vide his letter dated 26 th August, 2000 to
purchase the said rights for Rs.2 lakhs and deposited a banker‟s cheque for
Rs.50,000/- which was duly acknowledged by the Official Assignee on 29th
August, 2000. The plaintiff by offering the highest bid of Rs. 14,10,000/- on
30th August, 2000 got the said rights and an agreement dated 20th December,
2000 was executed by the Official Assignee in favour of the Plaintiff.
7\. It was alleged that in view of the agreement dated 20 th December, 2000,
the plaintiff has been granted negative rights, sole and exclusive commercial
and non-commercial video rights in all formats, including CVD, DVD, satellite
and television rights (both terrestrial and extra terrestrial), cable TV
rights, Pay TV rights and the available theatrical rights of the said picture
Kohinoor for all India and overseas territories i.e. the entire world
including India, for ten years commencing on 1st January, 2000 on „as is where
is‟ basis irrespective of the condition of the negative subject to existing
valid rights, liens, FAO (OS) No.81/2002 Page 3 of 26 charges etc if any of
any party and all encumbrances and adverse claims if any. It is averred in the
plaint that after grant of the said rights, it is the plaintiff who is now
entitled to deal with the said picture Kohinoor in respect of the said rights
and nobody else can interfere in the said rights.
8\. It was stated that before the said agreement could be executed, the
plaintiff received a letter dated 10 th October, 2000 from the defendant
stating that they have also certain rights in the said film, but along the
said letter the defendant did not enclose a copy of any agreement in regard to
their alleged rights. In reply to the abovesaid letter dated 27th October,
2000 was written by the plaintiff to the defendant alleging that the defendant
has no right nor the defendant‟s name ever appeared in the notice of auction
along with other right holders and called upon the defendant to produce a copy
of the agreement so that the same could be verified.
9\. In response to the said letter the defendant furnished a photo copy of
agreement alleged to have been signed by the defendant with the producer and
asserted that they were holding rights for overseas excluding India, Burma,
Pakistan, Ceylon, Aden, Continent of Africa, Complete Middle East, West
Indies, Fiji UK, and Greece and has alleged that there is an agreement dated
13 th October, 1961 with M/s. Republic Films Corporation.
10\. It was further alleged that the said rights of the claim by the
defendants were never disclosed by the official was not at any point of time
and the plaintiff have no information in this regard and even if it is FAO
(OS) No.81/2002 Page 4 of 26 presumed that the defendant has any right then it
is only theatrical distribution rights for certain overseas countries. When
the said agreement dated 13th October, 1961 was executed there was no
satellite rights or video rights, video rights came in vogue in 1970s while
the satellite rights came in vogue in 1990s and thus the defendant cannot
allege that they are holding the said video rights and satellite rights and in
fact the defendant has no right to interfere in the negative rights, sole and
exclusive commercial and non-commercial Video rights in all formats including
CVD, DVD, satellite and television rights (both terrestrial and extra
terrestrial), cable TV rights, Pay TV rights and the available theatrical
rights for All India and overseas territories i.e. the entire world including
India, but despite that the defendant has been interfering in the said rights
of the plaintiff by illegally writing letters to Zee TV, Sony TV and other
satellite channels as a result of which the plaintiff has not been able to
enjoy such rights. It would be pertinent to note that even as per allegation,
though it is not recorded by the Official Assignee the defendant has only
theatrical distribution right over certain overseas countries and thus the
defendant cannot allege having any right in satellite channels. Lastly it was
alleged that defendant has no authority to interfere in the said right as it
would mean that the plaintiff has paid the money and got nothing.
11\. The defendant filed the written statement raising various pleas, inter-
alia, that this Court has no territorial jurisdiction to entertain and try the
suit, the suit does not disclose any cause of action etc. Defendant averred in
the written statement that the rights acquired by FAO (OS) No.81/2002 Page 5
of 26 the plaintiff from the Official Assignee, High Court of Bombay under
agreement dated 20th December 2000 are clearly subject to the existing rights
of various parties.
12\. The Defendant also filed an application under Order 7 Rule 10 of CPC for
return of the plaint for presentation before appropriate courts on the grounds
that this court does not have the territorial jurisdiction and submitted that
plaintiff is claiming the alleged rights in respect of picture under agreement
dated 20th December, 2000 which provides that only the Courts in Bombay will
have the jurisdiction to entertain the matter.
13\. It was alleged by the defendant that he is carrying on business of
exploitation, exhibition and distribution of Hindi feature film throughout the
world and by two agreements dated 13 th October 1961 and 9th October 1963 the
producer of the feature film Kohinoor granted to the defendants the sole,
exclusive and proprietary copyrights for exploitation, distribution and
exhibition of commercial as well as non-commercial rights in respect of the
said feature film Kohinoor in 35mm as well as reduced size and sizes including
the rights of Television and all other rights attached to that exploitation,
exhibition and distribution for the territories i.e. complete world excluding
India, Burma, Pakistan, Ceylon,Aden, continent of Africa, complete Middle
East, West Indies, Fiji, UK and Greece (hereinafter called the contracted
territories) against the consideration paid to the producer and, therefore,
the defendant has absolute rights in their favour.
14\. It was alleged by the defendant that the producer of the said FAO (OS)
No.81/2002 Page 6 of 26 film has subsequently become insolvent and all his
rights and properties have been vested in the Official Assignee of the High
Court of Bombay. The Official Assignee, High Court of Bombay had invited
claims and the defendant by letter dated 11th October 2000 informed about his
right in respect of the said film to the Official Assignee who has not
responded to the said letter and the defendant was under the impression that
the Official Assignee is deemed to have accepted the contents of the said
letter.
15\. However, the defendant further alleges that the Official Assignee, High
Court of Bombay has entered into an agreement with the plaintiff in respect of
the said film but the said assignment is subject to the right already created
in favour of the existing parties and in view of the said contention the
Official Assignee and the plaintiff has accepted the said rights of the
defendant, therefore, now the plaintiff is estopped from challenging the said
rights of the defendant which is barred by law as the plaintiff was aware
about the claim of the defendant. That the defendant was not aware about the
infringement of copyright of the said film by M/s. A.G. Exports, therefore,
the defendant did not take any action in the matter.
16\. We have perused the rival submissions of the parties, pleadings and
documents. Now, we shall deal with the submissions made by learned counsel for
the parties.
17\. The main questions for determination are regarding the question of
territorial jurisdiction of this Hon‟ble court and as to whether the
defendants‟ right in the picture Kohinoor includes only FAO (OS) No.81/2002
Page 7 of 26 copyrights of exploitation, distribution and exhibition and does
not include the video rights in all formats including CVD, DVD, Satellite and
Television rights (both terrestrial and extra terrestrial) Cable TV and Pay TV
rights and theatrical rights and whether the plaintiff is entitled for
injunction as prayed for on the basis of the rights taken over from the
Official Assignee of the Bombay High Court. We feel that the main controversy
between the parties centers around the territorial jurisdiction of this Court
to entertain and try the present suit in this court or not and in view of the
rights, if available whether the plaintiff is entitled for injunction as
prayed for on the basis of these rights, as claimed.
18\. First, we will consider the question of territorial jurisdiction raised
by the defendant in the matter. The plaintiff has invoked the jurisdiction of
this Court as per Para 15 of the plaint which is reproduced herein-below for
the sake of convenience:-
> "That the cause of action arose at Delhi as the plaintiff enjoys the rights
> of film Kohinoor at Delhi. The defendant has advanced the threat to
> interfere in the right of the plaintiff at Delhi, therefore, this Hon‟ble
> court has the jurisdiction to try and adjudicate upon the present suit."
19\. The learned single Judge while deciding the question of jurisdiction has
observed as under:-
> "The jurisdiction of the court does not depend upon the defence taken by the
> defendant and it is the allegation made in the plaint which decide the forum
> as was held in the case of P.M.Diesel Ltd vs. Patel Field Marshal, reported
> in AIR 1998 Delhi 225. In view of the nature of statement made in the plaint
> read with the documents placed on record, I am of prima FAO (OS) No.81/2002
> Page 8 of 26 facie opinion that this Hon‟ble court has the jurisdiction to
> try this suit. This, however, is my tentative view at this stage only for
> the purpose of deciding of issue of grant of interim injunction. The right,
> which is claimed by the plaintiff pursuant to agreement with the Official
> Assignee dated 20 th December 2000 could be prima facie established by the
> plaintiff in Delhi. The plaintiff has also claimed injunction regarding
> threatened breach of its rights at Delhi and, therefore, prima facie it
> cannot be said that this Hon‟ble court does not have the territorial
> jurisdiction."
20\. Since the matter pertains to the infringement of copyright also,
therefore, it is necessary to refer to Section 62(2) of the Copyright Act,
which reads as under:-
> "Section 62(2):- for the purpose of sub-section (1), a "district court
> having jurisdiction" shall, notwithstanding anything contained in the Code
> of Civil Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908), or any other law for the time being in
> force, include a district court within the local limits of whose
> jurisdiction, at the suit or other proceeding or, where there are more than
> one such persons, any of them actually and voluntarily resides or carries on
> business or personally works for gain."
21\. This provision of Copyright Act shows that the jurisdiction for the
purpose of Section 62 is an additional ground to invoke the jurisdiction as
prescribed under Section 20 of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908. In Exphar
S.A. vs. Eupharma Laboratories 2004 SC 251 at Paras 13 & 15 it was observed as
under:-
> Para 13. Even if the jurisdiction of the Court were restricted in the manner
> construed by the Division Bench, it is evident not only from the cause title
> but also from the body of the plaint that the appellant No.2 carries on
> business within the jurisdiction of the Delhi High Court. The appellant No.2
> is certainly "a person instituting the suit". The Division Bench went beyond
> the express words of the statute and negatived the jurisdiction of the Court
> because it found that the appellant No.2 had not claimed ownership of the
> copyright of the trademark FAO (OS) No.81/2002 Page 9 of 26 infringement of
> which was claimed in the suit. The appellant No.2 may not be entitled to the
> relief claimed in the suit but that is no reason for holding that it was not
> a person who had instituted the suit within the meaning of Section 62(2) of
> the Act.
> Para 14. Furthermore, the appellants' plaint said that the 'cease and
> desist' notice was sent to the appellant No.2 at its office in New Delhi and
> in that notice it was alleged that the appellant NO.2 had infringed the
> copyright of the respondent No.2 to the trademark 'Maloxine'. Now a cease
> and desist notice means that the recipient is alleged to have infringed the
> rights of the sender of the notice to the copyright and as a result of such
> alleged infringement the recipient is liable to institution of civil and/or
> criminal proceedings. It is a threat. The plaint says that this threat was
> received within the jurisdiction of the High Court a fact which was
> sufficient to invoke the jurisdiction of that Court.
22\. In Tata Iron & Steel Co. Ltd. V. Mahavir Steels & Ors.; 47(1992) DLT 412
it was observed in paras 11&13 as under :
> "11. The question regarding jurisdiction can only be gone into after the
> evidence of the parties is recorded in the case. Even in the Punjab case the
> suit was not thrown out at the threshold under Order 7 Rule 11 CPC but only
> after the parties were given an opportunity to lead evidence. The plaint in
> the present suit categorically states that the defendant no.1 was selling
> the channels of defendant no.2 under the offending trade mark which is
> deceptively similar to that of the plaintiff. On these averments the Court
> must assume jurisdiction and proceed with the suit to determine the question
> relating to the confirmation/vacation of the stay order at this stage."
23\. This aspect has been decided by Justice Badar Durez Ahmed in Pfizer
Products Inc. Vs Rajesh Chopra & Ors, 2006(32) PTC 301(Delhi) wherein it was
observed as under :-
> "12. The other aspect of the matter is that a threat of selling the
> offending goods in Delhi would FAO (OS) No.81/2002 Page 10 of 26 in itself
> confer jurisdiction in the courts in Delhi to entertain a suit claiming an
> injunction in respect thereof. Whether the threat perception is justified or
> not is another matter which has to be considered and decided upon in the
> application filed by the plaintiff under Order 39 Rules 1 and 2 or on merits
> when the suit is taken up for disposal. Insofar as Order 7 Rule 10 is
> concerned, assuming that whatever is stated in the plaint is correct, one
> would have to also assume that the threat or the intention of the defendants
> to sell and offer for sale the offending goods in Delhi is also correct.
> Therefore, if the threat exists then this court would certainly have
> jurisdiction to entertain the present suit."
> 24\. In LG Corporation & Anr. Vs Intermarket Electroplasters(P) Ltd. and
> Anr.; 2006 (32) PTC 429, following observations were made in para 7 :-
> "7. ......The question as to whether the Court has territorial jurisdiction
> to entertain a suit or not has to be arrived at on the basis of averments
> made in the plaint, that truth or otherwise thereof being immaterial as it
> cannot be gone into at this stage....."
> 25\. In the present case it is an undisputed fact that the plaintiff is
> residing and carrying on business within the territory of this Hon‟ble
> court. The allegation made in the plaint is also that the defendant has
> advanced threat to interfere in the rights of the plaintiff at Delhi.
> Further the suit is also for the infringement of copyright. In view of the
> specific averments made in the plaint, we hold that the finding of the
> learned single Judge is correct that this Hon‟ble court has got the
> territorial jurisdiction to try the suit. In these circumstances the plea
> taken by the defendant in the appeal as well as the application has no
> force, untenable and is hereby rejected.
26\. As regards the next controversy in this appeal is concerned, FAO (OS)
No.81/2002 Page 11 of 26 the submission of the defendant is that on 30th
October 1961 M/s. Republic Film Corporation, Bombay, Producer of the picture
Kohinoor executed the film distribution agreement in favour of the appellant
thereby assigning distribution, exhibition and exploitation rights of the said
picture including Television rights mentioned in the agreement for the
territories i.e. complete world excluding India, Burma, Pakistan, Ceylon,
Aden, continents of Africa, complete S.U. Sunny, Middle East, Complete Far
East, West Indies, Fiji, UK and Greece.
27\. Apart from the aforesaid as per clause (1) of the agreement the producer
also assigned the sole and exclusive and perpetual copyrights of exploitation,
distribution and exhibition commercial as well as non-commercial in respect of
the said picture Kohinoor in 35 mm as well as in reduced size or sizes
including the right of television and all other rights attached to such
distribution, exploitation and exhibition of the said picture for a
consideration of Rs.10,000/-. The price include price of copyright and prints
and publicity material. As per clause (5) further rights are granted in favour
of the appellant by virtue of the said agreement and the same are reproduced
herein-below:-
> "The Assignor hereby agree and undertake that the said picture shall not be
> exhibited or distributed commercially, non-commercially or in any other
> manner in the contracted territory either by themselves, their servants or
> agents or otherwise and hereby agree to indemnify and keep indemnified the
> Assignees against such unauthorized distribution or exploitation of the said
> picture in the contracted territory. Any breach in this connection will make
> the Assignors liable to damages which in no case shall be less than the
> amount of the said price."
FAO (OS) No.81/2002 Page 12 of 26
28\. Learned Senior counsel for the plaintiff has argued that the said two
agreements are false, fabricated, manipulated and arranged documents. He also
argued that the defendant was fully aware about the assignment in favour of
the plaintiff before the official assignee and Bombay High Court. Learned
counsel has further argued that the appellant did not take any action against
M/s. A.G. Exports who was exploiting the picture at earlier point of time but
now the defendant is trying to interfere in the same when the plaintiff has
purchased the rights and cooked up the pleas in order to blackmail the
plaintiff and to extract money for which the defendant has no right.
29\. We have perused the pleadings and find that the plaint is silent about
the alleged averment of the false and fabrication of the said agreements. The
said plea was taken by the plaintiff first time in the replication. Rather in
Para 10 of the plaint the plaintiff has stated the different facts,the
relevant portion of Para 10 of the plaint is reproduced below:-
> "10. That even if it is presumed that the defendant has any right then it is
> only theatrical distribution rights for certain overseas countries. When the
> said agreement dated 13th October, 1961 was executed there was no satellite
> rights or video rights came in vogue in 1990s and thus the defendant cannot
> allege that they are holding the said video rights and satellite rights and
> in fact the defendant has no right to interfere in the negative rights, sole
> and exclusive commercial and non-commercial Video rights in all formats,
> including CVD, DVD, satellite and television rights (both terrestrial and
> extra terrestrial), cable TV rights, Pay TV rights and the available
> theatrical rights for All India and overseas territories i.e. the entire
> wourld including India, but despite that the defendant has been interfering
> in the said rights of the plaintiff by illegally writing letters to Zee TV,
> FAO (OS) No.81/2002 Page 13 of 26 Sony TV and other satellite channels as a
> result of which the plaintiff has not been able to enjoy such rights....."
30\. As regard the second submission of the learned counsel of the plaintiff
that the defendant did not raise any objection when the picture was being
exploited by M/s. A.G. Exports, the defendant has made the submissions in the
written statement that the defendant was not aware about the same otherwise
action would have been taken against the said firm.
31\. Next submission of the plaintiff relates to the knowledge about the
assignment of the film Kohinoor through official assignee and later on said
assignment being confirmed by the Bombay High Court, the justification given
by the defendant is that the defendant had written various letters to official
assignee about the earlier rights in its favour and further the assignment in
favour of the plaintiff was subject to the existing valid rights, lien,
charges etc, if any, by any party and all encumbrances and adverse claims, if
any, created by the producer and further the distribution rights are granted
to the respondent on "as is where is basis". Learned counsel for the defendant
has argued that having not contested the assignment proceeding before the
official assignee and in the Bombay High Court, it does not affect the legal
rights of the defendant due to the reason that the assignment in favour of the
plaintiff was subject to the above mentioned conditions and the defendant
always has the chance to assert its legal rights.
32\. While considering the application of injunction the learned FAO (OS)
No.81/2002 Page 14 of 26 single Judge has granted the interim orders by giving
the finding against the defendant on the reasons the defendant was duly
represented before the official assignee as well as before the Bombay High
Court and since the plaintiff has acquired the bonafide claim in respect of
the aforesaid claim, therefore, prima facie, the plaintiff has arguable case
in his favour. Another reason for granting the interim order by the learned
single Judge was that the defendant, if at all, acquired the right in the year
1961 the said rights are related to particular overseas areas. On the basis of
these main findings the learned single Judge granted the interim injunction
against the appellant.
33\. In view of the above said submissions of the learned counsel for the
parties and facts stated in the pleadings, the question before us is as to
whether the defendant has any right in the picture Kohinoor for exploitation,
distribution and exhibition does or does not include video rights in all forms
including CVD, DVD, Satellite and Television rights ( both terrestrial and
extra terrestrial), Cable TV and Pay TV rights and theatrical rights by virtue
of the two agreements or the plaintiff is entitled for injunction as claimed.
We may point out that on the subject matter of the present dispute two
separate views on the same legal proposition have been taken by the different
High Courts.
34\. One view which has been taken by the Madra High Court in the case of Raj
Video Vision vs. K. Mohanakrishnan and another; AIR 1998 Madras 294 at para 10
page 297 : -
> "10........However, the conclusion which can be arrived at is that when the
> producers themselves were not aware of their future rights accrued due to
> FAO (OS) No.81/2002 Page 15 of 26 scientific advancements, it cannot be said
> they had already transferred the rights not in existence by way of
> assignments. The assignments cannot be made on rights not in existence and
> therefore it can be safely decided that the video rights of the film were
> not given to the assignees M/s Azam and Company and the assignee in turn an
> assignors could not have assigned the video rights to the 2nd defendant
> herein."
In para 13 of the above said judgment the learned High Court has also referred
another decision of Madras High Court in Raj Video Vision, Registered
Partnership Firm Rep. by its Partners vs. M/s. Sun T.V. (1994) 2 LW 158 who
has also taken the almost the same view. The relevant portion of para 13 is
reproduced hereunder :-
> "13.......while considering the satellite right which was not contemplated
> in the year 1986, it was held "what was not contemplated at the time of
> agreement cannot be claimed by the applicants now". While considering this
> view taken by the learned Judge which is more appropriate to the present
> case and if that view is taken for consideration in the instant case, in the
> year 1961 when the Negative Right was given to M/s. Azam and Company neither
> party could have dreamt of the later scientific advancements of video,
> satellite, etc. could not have assigned or granted those rights."
35\. The second view is taken by the Bombay High Court on the same point. In
the case of Maganlal Shivani vs. Khosla Enterprises wherein the present
defendant was the plaintiff in Suit No. 925/99 S.S.Nijjar, J, vide order dated
17th August 1999 has considered the same point and has given his finding in
Para 7 of the judgment which is reproduced herein below:-
> "7. I have considered the arguments put forward by the learned counsel for
> the parties. A perusal of clause(1) of the agreement shows that the
> plaintiff has FAO (OS) No.81/2002 Page 16 of 26 been granted the sole
> exclusive and perpetual copyrights of exploitation, distribution and
> exhibition , commercial as well as non-commercial, in respect of the said
> pictures in 35mm, as well as any reduced size or sizes. This includes the
> rights of television and all other rights attached to such exploitation.
> These rights have been assigned to the plaintiff for the price of £16,700
> (Pound Sterling Sixteen Thousand Seven Hundred only). The overseas
> territories are mentioned which include USA and Canada. In my view, the most
> natural meaning to be given to the aforesaid clause is that plaintiff has
> been given perpetual copyrights of exploitation, distribution and exhibition
> of films. These rights include the rights of television and all other rights
> attached to such exploitation. The phrase all other rights attached to such
> exploitation cannot be read to mean that the other rights referred only to
> television right. The clause clearly shows that the plaintiff is the sole
> exclusive and perpetual copyright holder for exploitation of the films. The
> size of the pictures viz. 35 mm. as well as any reduced size or sizes cannot
> be read to mean that all other rights where the film is exhibited through
> the medium of video cassettes and DVD has been excluded. Ultimately what was
> assigned to the plaintiff was the right to exploit and exhibit the films
> through different sizes of the film and by the medium of television. Video
> cassettes, VCD and DVD are only improved versions of exhibiting the film.
> What was earlier done by the spool containing the film, is now being done by
> video cassettes and DVDs. Satellite broadcasting can also not be said to be
> excluded from the television rights which had been granted to the plaintiff.
> By using the satellite channels the plaintiff is still exhibiting the films
> on television. In fact the clause clearly indicates that all rights for
> exploiting the film had been assigned to the plaintiff. Prima facie, I am
> also of the view that the defendants have acted in infringement of the
> negative covenant contained in clause 5 of the agreement. The judgment
> relied upon by Mr. Shah in the case of Video Master (supra) is
> distinguishable. Therein the court was interpreting a clause pertains only
> to the assignment of video right. The court accepted that there are several
> ways of communication and each one is separately divisible and can exist in
> different persons at the same time. There is no dispute with the aforesaid
> proposition. The court, however, has to construe clause 1 of the agreements
> in the present suit which has assigned all the copyrights to FAO (OS)
> No.81/2002 Page 17 of 26 the plaintiffs without any restrictions. Prima
> facie, I am of the view that no restrictions can be placed on the enjoyment
> of the copyright of the film which is vested in the plaintiff only on the
> ground that the mode of execution in the film had not been invented at the
> time when the agreement had been entered into. With regard to jurisdiction
> of this court, I am of the considered opinion that by virtue of section 62
> (2) of the Copyright Act, it is not necessary to seek leave under clause 12
> of the Letters Patent. I am also satisfied that the copyright of the
> plaintiff has been infringed within the territorial jurisdiction of this
> court by defendants No.1 to 3 by entering into an agreement with defendant
> No.4 with regard to satellite and video rights. This agreement has been
> entered in Bombay."
36\. The said order was also challenged before a Division Bench of the Bombay
High Court by the defendant in Appeal No. 1246/99 in the case of Khosla
Enterprises and others vs. Maganlal Savani. The said appeal was dismissed on
10th January 2000 by a Division Bench consisting of Y.K.Sabharwal, J. (as his
Lordship then was) and Smt. Ranjana Desai, J, confirming the order passed by
Nijjar,J.
37\. The same view was taken by the Bombay High Court in another case reported
in 2000 PTC 556 in the case of Maganlal Savani vs. Roopam Pictures Pvt Ltd.
The relevant Paras 5 and 6 of the said judgment are reproduced herein below:-
> "Para 5. The defendants contested the application and submitted that the
> telecasting of the picture through Satellite was not assigned to the
> plaintiff. The counsel appearing for them submits that in fact in the year
> 1973 when the agreement was executed between the parties, this satellite
> television was not under the contemplation of the parties at all. Therefore
> the plaintiff No. l cannot object to any other party doing satellite
> telecast of the picture as it is not in the contracted territory. Prima
> facie the contention of the learned counsel for the defendants that in 1973
> the parties would never envisage that the picture should be given for
> satellite telecasting to the plaintiff No. 1, appeared to be sound. But the
> rights FAO (OS) No.81/2002 Page 18 of 26 which was assigned to the plaintiff
> No.1 is to take the satellite telecasting or any other manner which may be
> able to do by the first plaintiff through scientific device or technology.
> In this context it is relevant to quote the relevant paragraph of the
> agreement.
> The Assignors hereby agree and under-take that the said picture shall not be
> exploited or distributed or exhibited commercially, non-commercially or in
> any other manner whatsoever, in the contracted Territory, either by
> themselves, their servants or agents or otherwise and hereby agree to
> indemnify and keep indemnified the Assignees against such unauthorized
> distribution or exploitation or exhibition of the said picture in the
> contracted territory. Any breach in this connection will make the Assignors
> liable to the damages which in no case shall be less than twice the amount
> of the price.
> Para 6. What is assigned to the first plaintiffs the exploitation,
> distribution and exhibition commercially or otherwise of the picture. In
> this context we have to give a wider meaning of the term "exploitation".
> Exploitation of a film takes in all the scientific and technological device
> that may be invented in future also and the plaintiff could make use of
> those inventions. Given such an interpretation of the word "exploitation"
> the objection raised by first plaintiff in conducting satellite telecasting
> of the picture "Chupke Chupke" will per se violative of the provisions of
> the agreement. The similar view has been taken by this court in the context
> of interpreting similar contract in Notice of Motion No. 8663/99 dated 17th
> August 1999. I need not go into the details of that order because the matter
> has been taken in appeal before the Division Bench of this Court and
> Division Bench of this Court by order dated 10.1.2000 in Appeal No. 1246/99
> upheld the order of the learned single Judge and held that the exploitation
> is taking of the kind of exploit, including the internet, satellite
> telecast. It is profitable to quote the observation of the Division Bench.
> We find no infirmity in the prima facie opinion expressed by the learned
> single Judge that the phrase all other rights attached to such exploitation
> cannot be read to mean that the other rights referred only to television
> rights and the clause shows that the plaintiff is the sole exclusive and
> perpetual copyright holder for exploitation of the films in question.
FAO (OS) No.81/2002 Page 19 of 26
> In view of this, I find that the agreement executed between the first
> plaintiff and the first defendant will take in satellite telecast of the
> said film also."
38\. In a recent judgment of the Bombay High Court reported in 2008 (Vol. 110)
Bombay Law Reporter 925 in the case of Maganlal Shivani Vs. Uttam Chitra by
V.V. Chandrachud, J. the Hon‟ble court while considering the earlier judgment
at length agreed with the judgment of Nijjar, J. (as his Lordship then was).
The relevant Paras 4 and 5 of the said judgment are reproduced below:-
> "4. The Assignors hereby agree and undertake that the said Picture shall not
> be exploited or distributed or exhibited commercially, non-commercially or
> in any other manner whatsoever, in the Contracted Territory either by
> themselves, their servants or agents or otherwise and hereby agree to
> indemnify and keep indemnified the Assignees against such unauthorized
> distribution or exploitation or exhibition of the said picture in the
> Contracted Territory.
> By virtue of Clause (1), the assignor (the First Defendant) has granted to
> the assignee, "the sole, exclusive and perpetual copyright of exploitation,
> distribution and exhibition, commercial as well as noncommercial, in respect
> of the said pictures in 35 mm as well as in reduced size or sizes..." for
> the territories spelt out therein. Exploitation is an act or process of
> exploiting, making use of or working up; a process of utilization by the
> application of industry (Black's Law Dictionary, 5th Edition page 519.
> P.Ramanatha Aiyar, Law Lexicon, Vol.II, page 724). The provisions of Clause
> (1) must prima facie be juxtaposed together with Clause (4) under which the
> assignors have agreed and undertaken that the films shall not be exploited
> or distributed or exhibited commercially, non-commercially or in any manner
> whatsoever in the contracted territory. The positive act of assignment in
> Clause (1) is coupled with the negative obligation precluding the assignors
> from exploiting the films in the contracted territories.
> 4\. The right which has been assigned is to exploit, distribute and exhibit
> the film in 35 mm as well as in FAO (OS) No.81/2002 Page 20 of 26 reduced
> size or sizes, including all the rights of Television, High Seas, Air "and
> all other rights attached to such exploitation, distribution and
> exhibition". The assignment of these rights is prima facie absolute.
> 5\. Prima facie, at the ad-interim stage, the interpretation of Clause (1)
> of the Agreement of assignment in the present case is not res integra. A
> similar clause came up for interpretation before S.S. Nijjar, J (as the
> Learned Chief Justice then was), in a judgment dated 17th August 1999 in
> Maganlal Savani v. Khosla Enterprises (Notice of Motion 863 of 1999 in Suit
> 925 of 1999). It was urged on behalf of the Defendants that at the time when
> the agreement was executed in 1971-72, there was no occasion to assign
> copyrights in Video, satellite transmission and DVD since such media was
> unknown on the date of the agreement and only rights for exhibiting of the
> film were assigned together with terrestrial television. The Learned Single
> Judge, while rejecting the submission, held as follows:
> A perusal of Clause (1) of the agreement shows that the Plaintiff has been
> granted the sole exclusive and perpetual copyrights of exploitation,
> distribution and exhibition, commercial as well as non-commercial, in
> respect of the said pictures in 35 mm as well as any reduced size or sizes.
> This includes the rights of television and Page 0931 all other rights
> attached to such exploitation.... In my view, the most natural meaning to be
> given to the aforesaid clause is that Plaintiff has been given perpetual
> copyrights of exploitation, distribution and exhibition of films. These
> rights include the rights of television and all other rights attached to
> such exploitation. The phrase all other rights attached to such exploitation
> cannot be read to mean that the other rights referred only to television
> rights.
> One of the submissions which was urged before the Learned Single Judge was
> that the reference in Clause (1) to a 35 mm or reduced size of film would
> show that Video Cassettes and DVDs were excluded. Rejecting the submission,
> the Learned Single Judge, while upholding the case of the Plaintiff, held
> thus:
> The size of the pictures viz., 35 mm. as well as any reduced size or sizes
> cannot be read to mean that all other rights where the film is exhibited
> through the medium of video cassettes and DVD has been excluded. Ultimately
> what was assigned to the Plaintiff was the right to exploit FAO (OS)
> No.81/2002 Page 21 of 26 and exhibit the films through different sizes of
> the film and by the medium of television. Video cassette, VCD and DVD are
> only improved versions of exhibiting the film. What was earlier done by the
> spool containing the film, is now being done by video cassettes and DVDs.
> Satellite broadcasting can also not be said to be excluded from the
> television rights which had been granted to the Plaintiff. By using the
> satellite channels the Plaintiff is still exhibiting the films on
> television. In fact the clause clearly indicates that all rights for
> exploiting the film had been assigned to the Plaintiff.... Prima facie, I am
> of the view that no restrictions can be placed on the enjoyment of the
> copyright of the film which is vested in the Plaintiff only on the ground
> that the mode of exhibition of the film had not been invented at the time
> when the agreement had been entered into.
> The judgment of Mr.Justice Nijjar was carried in appeal and a Division Bench
> of this Court in its order dated 10th January 2000 (Khosla Enterprises v.
> Maganlal Savani, Appeal 1246 of 1999) held thus:
> Having heard Learned Counsel for the parties and read various clauses of the
> Agreement dated 21st October, 1970, in particular Clause 1 thereof, we find
> no infirmity in the prima facie opinion expressed by the Learned Single
> Judge that the phrase 'all other rights attached to such exploitation'
> cannot be read to mean that the other rights referred only to television
> rights and the clause shows that the Plaintiff is the sole, exclusive and
> perpetual copyright holder for exploitation of the films in question.
> The Division Bench, however, directed the Plaintiff to the suit to maintain
> accounts in respect of the exploitation of the films. The same view of the
> Learned Single Judge has been reiterated in a judgment of T.K.
> Chadrashekhara Das,J. dated 20th June 2000 in Maganlal Savani v. Rupam
> Pictures (P) Ltd. (Notice of Motion 1481 of 2000 in Suit 1806 of 2000. A
> judgment of another Learned Single Judge, S.U. Kamdar, J. in Page 0932
> Shemaroo Video P. Ltd. v. Movie Tee Vee Enterprises, 2006(1) All MR 37,
> adopts the same line of reasoning. An Appeal against the judgment of Kamdar
> J. is stated to be pending. The judgment of S.S. Nijjar, J., as noted
> earlier, has been approved by the Division Bench.
39\. In A.A. Associates vs. Prem Goel & Ors, AIR 2002 Delhi FAO (OS)
No.81/2002 Page 22 of 26 142 decided by V. S. Aggarwal, J, the Delhi High
Court had also an occasion to deal with both the views i.e. one was taken by
the Madras High Court and another by the Bombay High Court and Hon‟ble Judge
has agreed with the view taken by the Bombay High Court. The relevant Paras
17- 20 of the said decision are reproduced below:-
> "17. It is common knowledge that with the passage of time the television
> rights have assumed great importance. Whenever an agreement therefore has
> been arrived at the intention of the parties cannot be lost sight of. The
> intention of the parties will spell as to what exactly was agreed and
> intended to be performed by the parties.
> 18\. Reference in this connection can well be made to the decision from the
> Madras High Court in Raj Video Vision vs. M/s Sun TV 1994-2-LW.158. Somewhat
> a similar question came up for consideration in that court. It was held that
> intention of the parties have to be determined to find out as to whether it
> included all other rights or it was confined to features or television or
> satellite. The Madras High Court held that satellite television broadcasting
> right is an independent right for which a copyright could not have claimed.
> It was further held:
> ".....Thus, looked at from any angle, satellite TV broadcasting rights are
> independent rights and the same have to be assigned specifically and so far
> as such rights have not been assigned in favour of the applicant/plaintiff
> specifically, the plaintiffs cannot claim any copyright in the same or seek
> any order of injunction on the ground of alleged infringement by the
> defendant. The plaintiff//applicants therefore in my opinion have no prima
> facie case....."
> 19\. The attention of the court has also been drawn towards the decision of
> the Bombay High Court in the case of Video Master vs. Nishi Productions 1998
> PTC (18) 117. The Bombay High Court referred to the differences and
> clauses/species of the communication and held that theatrical rights include
> the right to exhibit the cinematograph film in theatres, terrestrial rights
> is the right to exhibit the film on Doordarshan and satellite FAO (OS)
> No.81/2002 Page 23 of 26 broadcasting rights is the right to
> exhibit/communicate the film by satellite signals to public with or without
> cable and through the satellite medium. While the cable TV right is right to
> exhibit a film by cable originated programme.
> 20\. One finds itself in respectful agreement of these pleas as projected by
> the defendants. It is true that in the agreement it has not specifically
> been mentioned that the rights exclude the cable television or any other
> satellite rights but the intention of the parties can easily be inferred
> from the nature of the transaction that had been arrived at.........."
40\. After having gone through the above said decisions, we are of the view
that there cannot be any restriction being imposed on the enjoyment of
copyright which is vested with the earlier exclusive owner on the ground that
the exhibition of the film on DVD and satellites and video have not been
invented at the time when the agreement had been entered into. As a matter of
fact it is common knowledge that with the passage of time television rights
have become important and whenever an agreement has been arrived at, we have
to see the intention of the parties which will indicate as to what exactly was
agreed and intended to be performed.
41\. Having regard to the above, with great respect we are unable to agree
with the decision given by the Madras High Court in the judgment reported in
the case of Raj Video Vision vs. K. MohanaKrishnan. Rather we agree with the
views taken by the Bombay High Court and followed a learned Single Judge of
this Court.
42\. It also appears from the four decisions given by the Bombay High Court,
the present defendant/appellant is the party in the matters FAO (OS)
No.81/2002 Page 24 of 26 and the terms and conditions of the respective
agreements involved in the said matters are almost same. Further, in two cases
as earlier referred and reported in AIR 2002 Delhi-142 and 1998 PTC-117, the
Courts have given their findings by distinguishing the case of Raj Video
vision vs. K. Mohan Krishan.
43\. After the discussion of law and considering the rival submissions of the
learned counsel for the parties, we are of the view that prima facie it is not
in dispute that the defendant has acquired the rights in the year 1961 by
virtue of the agreement prior in time the rights acquired by the plaintiff. It
is not denied by the plaintiff that the plaintiff has acquired the rights
through official assignee and subsequently the second rights were confirmed by
the Bombay High Court on "as is where is basis" subject to the existing valid
rights, liens, charges, etc, if any, of any party and all encumbrances and
adverse claims, if any, created by the said insolvent over the negatives of
the said rights of the picture.
44\. Therefore, it appears to us that the rights granted in favour of the
plaintiff are not exclusive and absolute but the same are conditional.
Otherwise the terms and conditions mentioned above ought not to have formed
part of the said assignment. At the same time the defendant is asserting its
rights only in a limited way i.e. for overseas countries as described in the
agreement. In view of the above, interim order in respect of other countries
of the world including India shall continue till the disposal of the suit.
45\. In view of the above, we modify the interim order by allowing the
defendant for exploitation, distribution and exhibition commercially FAO (OS)
No.81/2002 Page 25 of 26 as well as non-commercially in respect of the said
picture Kohinoor in 35 mm as well as in reduced size or sizes including the
right of Television or all other rights attached to such distribution,
exploitation and exhibition of the said picture Kohinoor in the contracted
territories excluding India, Burma, Pakistan, Ceylon, Aden, continent of
Africa, complete S.U., Sunny, Middle East, complete Far East, West Indies,
Fiji, U.K. and Greece as per agreement dated 13th October, 1961 and 9th
October, 1963. However, the interim order would continue in respect of the
countries specifically excluded in the agreement as pointed out above, till
the disposal of the suit. The appeal is partly allowed in the aforesaid terms.
No costs.
46\. Needless to say that the prima facie view taken by us in the present case
and any observations made herein shall be treated as tentative in nature and
shall not constitute any expression of final opinion on the issues involved in
the matter and shall have no bearing on the outcome of the case.
MANMOHAN SINGH, J.
A.K. SIKRI, J.
October 23, 2008 sa/sd FAO (OS) No.81/2002 Page 26 of 26
45\. In view of the above, we modify the interim order by allowing the
defendant for exploitation, distribution and exhibition commercially FAO (OS)
No.81/2002 Page 25 of 26 as well as non-commercially in respect of the said
picture Kohinoor in 35 mm as well as in reduced size or sizes including the
right of Television or all other rights attached to such distribution,
exploitation and exhibition of the said picture Kohinoor in the contracted
territories excluding India, Burma, Pakistan, Ceylon, Aden, continent of
Africa, complete S.U., Sunny, Middle East, complete Far East, West Indies,
Fiji, U.K. and Greece as per agreement dated 13th October, 1961 and 9th
October, 1963. However, the interim order would continue in respect of the
countries specifically excluded in the agreement as pointed out above, till
the disposal of the suit. The appeal is partly allowed in the aforesaid terms.
No costs.
46\. Needless to say that the prima facie view taken by us in the present case
and any observations made herein shall be treated as tentative in nature and
shall not constitute any expression of final opinion on the issues involved in
       be allowed to see the judgment?
    2. To be referred to Reporter or not?
    3. Whether the judgment should be reported               Yes
       in the Digest?
    MANMOHAN SINGH, J.
1\. This appeal is directed against the order dated 18th January, 2002 passed
by the learned Single Judge of this Court whereby the appellant‟s (hereinafter
referred to as „defendant‟) application under Order 7 Rule 10 of the CPC being
I.A. No. 8262/2000 seeking return of the plaint to the respondent (hereinafter
referred to as „plaintiff") to be presented in the court having proper
jurisdiction was dismissed and plaintiff‟s application under Order 39 Rule 1
and 2 of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 being I.A. No. 7236/2000 seeking
injunction FAO (OS) No.81/2002 Page 1 of 26 restraining the Defendant, its
employees, agents and representatives from in any manner interfering in the
negative rights, sole and exclusive commercial and non-commercial video rights
in all formats, including CVD, DVD, satellite and television rights (both
terrestrial and extra- terrestrial), cable T.V. rights, pay T.V. rights and
the available theatrical rights for all India and overseas territories i.e.
the entire world including India, in picture „KOHINOOR‟ till the disposal of
the suit has been allowed.
45\. In view of the above, we modify the interim order by allowing the
defendant for exploitation, distribution and exhibition commercially FAO (OS)
No.81/2002 Page 25 of 26 as well as non-commercially in respect of the said
picture Kohinoor in 35 mm as well as in reduced size or sizes including the
right of Television or all other rights attached to such distribution,
exploitation and exhibition of the said picture Kohinoor in the contracted
territories excluding India, Burma, Pakistan, Ceylon, Aden, continent of
Africa, complete S.U., Sunny, Middle East, complete Far East, West Indies,
Fiji, U.K. and Greece as per agreement dated 13th October, 1961 and 9th
October, 1963. However, the interim order would continue in respect of the
countries specifically excluded in the agreement as pointed out above, till
the disposal of the suit. The appeal is partly allowed in the aforesaid terms.
No costs.
46\. Needless to say that the prima facie view taken by us in the present case
and any observations made herein shall be treated as tentative in nature and
shall not constitute any expression of final opinion on the issues involved in
       be allowed to see the judgment?
    2. To be referred to Reporter or not?
    3. Whether the judgment should be reported               Yes
       in the Digest?
    MANMOHAN SINGH, J.
1\. This appeal is directed against the order dated 18th January, 2002 passed
by the learned Single Judge of this Court whereby the appellant‟s (hereinafter
referred to as „defendant‟) application under Order 7 Rule 10 of the CPC being
I.A. No. 8262/2000 seeking return of the plaint to the respondent (hereinafter
referred to as „plaintiff") to be presented in the court having proper
jurisdiction was dismissed and plaintiff‟s application under Order 39 Rule 1
and 2 of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 being I.A. No. 7236/2000 seeking
injunction FAO (OS) No.81/2002 Page 1 of 26 restraining the Defendant, its
employees, agents and representatives from in any manner interfering in the
negative rights, sole and exclusive commercial and non-commercial video rights
in all formats, including CVD, DVD, satellite and television rights (both
terrestrial and extra- terrestrial), cable T.V. rights, pay T.V. rights and
the available theatrical rights for all India and overseas territories i.e.
the entire world including India, in picture „KOHINOOR‟ till the disposal of
the suit has been allowed.
45\. In view of the above, we modify the interim order by allowing the
defendant for exploitation, distribution and exhibition commercially FAO (OS)
No.81/2002 Page 25 of 26 as well as non-commercially in respect of the said
picture Kohinoor in 35 mm as well as in reduced size or sizes including the
right of Television or all other rights attached to such distribution,
exploitation and exhibition of the said picture Kohinoor in the contracted
territories excluding India, Burma, Pakistan, Ceylon, Aden, continent of
Africa, complete S.U., Sunny, Middle East, complete Far East, West Indies,
Fiji, U.K. and Greece as per agreement dated 13th October, 1961 and 9th
October, 1963. However, the interim order would continue in respect of the
countries specifically excluded in the agreement as pointed out above, till
the disposal of the suit. The appeal is partly allowed in the aforesaid terms.
No costs.
46\. Needless to say that the prima facie view taken by us in the present case
and any observations made herein shall be treated as tentative in nature and
shall not constitute any expression of final opinion on the issues involved in
       be allowed to see the judgment?
    2. To be referred to Reporter or not?
    3. Whether the judgment should be reported               Yes
       in the Digest?
    MANMOHAN SINGH, J.
1\. This appeal is directed against the order dated 18th January, 2002 passed
by the learned Single Judge of this Court whereby the appellant‟s (hereinafter
referred to as „defendant‟) application under Order 7 Rule 10 of the CPC being
I.A. No. 8262/2000 seeking return of the plaint to the respondent (hereinafter
referred to as „plaintiff") to be presented in the court having proper
jurisdiction was dismissed and plaintiff‟s application under Order 39 Rule 1
and 2 of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 being I.A. No. 7236/2000 seeking
injunction FAO (OS) No.81/2002 Page 1 of 26 restraining the Defendant, its
employees, agents and representatives from in any manner interfering in the
negative rights, sole and exclusive commercial and non-commercial video rights
in all formats, including CVD, DVD, satellite and television rights (both
terrestrial and extra- terrestrial), cable T.V. rights, pay T.V. rights and
the available theatrical rights for all India and overseas territories i.e.
the entire world including India, in picture „KOHINOOR‟ till the disposal of
the suit has been allowed.
2\. Brief facts relevant for deciding this appeal are that the plaintiff is
carrying on the business of film distribution, exhibition and exploitation of
cinematographic films and is also dealing in satellite right and negative
rights of cinematograph films.
3\. A cinematographic film „KOHINOOR‟ was produced by M/s Republic Films
Corporation, whose producer was later declared as insolvent and all assets of
the said producer were taken over by the Official Assignee of Bombay High
Court and thus the entire negative right of the picture „KOHINOOR‟ including
the negative rights, sole and exclusive commercial and non-commercial video
rights in all formats including CVD, DVD, satellite and television rights
(both terrestrial and extra terrestrial), cable TV, Pay TV rights and the
45\. In view of the above, we modify the interim order by allowing the
defendant for exploitation, distribution and exhibition commercially FAO (OS)
No.81/2002 Page 25 of 26 as well as non-commercially in respect of the said
picture Kohinoor in 35 mm as well as in reduced size or sizes including the
right of Television or all other rights attached to such distribution,
exploitation and exhibition of the said picture Kohinoor in the contracted
territories excluding India, Burma, Pakistan, Ceylon, Aden, continent of
Africa, complete S.U., Sunny, Middle East, complete Far East, West Indies,
Fiji, U.K. and Greece as per agreement dated 13th October, 1961 and 9th
October, 1963. However, the interim order would continue in respect of the
countries specifically excluded in the agreement as pointed out above, till
the disposal of the suit. The appeal is partly allowed in the aforesaid terms.
No costs.
46\. Needless to say that the prima facie view taken by us in the present case
and any observations made herein shall be treated as tentative in nature and
shall not constitute any expression of final opinion on the issues involved in
       be allowed to see the judgment?
    2. To be referred to Reporter or not?
    3. Whether the judgment should be reported               Yes
       in the Digest?
    MANMOHAN SINGH, J.
1\. This appeal is directed against the order dated 18th January, 2002 passed
by the learned Single Judge of this Court whereby the appellant‟s (hereinafter
referred to as „defendant‟) application under Order 7 Rule 10 of the CPC being
I.A. No. 8262/2000 seeking return of the plaint to the respondent (hereinafter
referred to as „plaintiff") to be presented in the court having proper
jurisdiction was dismissed and plaintiff‟s application under Order 39 Rule 1
and 2 of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 being I.A. No. 7236/2000 seeking
injunction FAO (OS) No.81/2002 Page 1 of 26 restraining the Defendant, its
employees, agents and representatives from in any manner interfering in the
negative rights, sole and exclusive commercial and non-commercial video rights
in all formats, including CVD, DVD, satellite and television rights (both
terrestrial and extra- terrestrial), cable T.V. rights, pay T.V. rights and
the available theatrical rights for all India and overseas territories i.e.
the entire world including India, in picture „KOHINOOR‟ till the disposal of
the suit has been allowed.
2\. Brief facts relevant for deciding this appeal are that the plaintiff is
carrying on the business of film distribution, exhibition and exploitation of
cinematographic films and is also dealing in satellite right and negative
rights of cinematograph films.
3\. A cinematographic film „KOHINOOR‟ was produced by M/s Republic Films
Corporation, whose producer was later declared as insolvent and all assets of
the said producer were taken over by the Official Assignee of Bombay High
Court and thus the entire negative right of the picture „KOHINOOR‟ including
the negative rights, sole and exclusive commercial and non-commercial video
rights in all formats including CVD, DVD, satellite and television rights
(both terrestrial and extra terrestrial), cable TV, Pay TV rights and the
45\. In view of the above, we modify the interim order by allowing the
defendant for exploitation, distribution and exhibition commercially FAO (OS)
No.81/2002 Page 25 of 26 as well as non-commercially in respect of the said
picture Kohinoor in 35 mm as well as in reduced size or sizes including the
right of Television or all other rights attached to such distribution,
exploitation and exhibition of the said picture Kohinoor in the contracted
territories excluding India, Burma, Pakistan, Ceylon, Aden, continent of
Africa, complete S.U., Sunny, Middle East, complete Far East, West Indies,
Fiji, U.K. and Greece as per agreement dated 13th October, 1961 and 9th
October, 1963. However, the interim order would continue in respect of the
countries specifically excluded in the agreement as pointed out above, till
the disposal of the suit. The appeal is partly allowed in the aforesaid terms.
No costs.
46\. Needless to say that the prima facie view taken by us in the present case
and any observations made herein shall be treated as tentative in nature and
shall not constitute any expression of final opinion on the issues involved in
