Delhi High Court
The Himalaya Drug Company vs M/S. S.B.L. Limited on 9 November, 2012
Author: Manmohan Singh
    *      IN THE HIGH COURT OF DELHI AT NEW DELHI
                                        Judgment Reserved on: October 11, 2012
    %                                   Judgment Pronounced on: November 9, 2012
    +                              RFA (OS) No.90/2010
           THE HIMALAYA DRUG COMPANY                    ..... Appellant
                   Represented by: Mr.Hemant Singh, Advocate with
                                   Ms.Mamta Jha, Mr.Sachin Gupta and
                                   Ms.Shashi P.Ojha and Mr.Siddhant
                                   Asthana, Advocates
                          versus
           M/S. S.B.L. LIMITED                                   ..... Respondent
                       Represented by:       Mr.V.P.Singh, Sr.Advocate instructed
                                             by Mr.Atish Dipankar, Advocate
           CORAM:
           HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE PRADEEP NANDRAJOG
           HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE MANMOHAN SINGH
    MANMOHAN SINGH, J.
that the defendant may use the mark containing the expression LIV not written
in isolation and is accompanied by suffixes, examples of which are given in
the written statement i.e. LIVOGEN, Livpar, Livosin, LIVAPLEX, LIVOFIT, LIVA,
LIVOL, LIVDRO, LIVAZOL, LIVERITE, LIVERJET, LIVERNUT, LIVERPOL, LIVUP. At this
stage, we wish to recall the submission of the Mr.Hemant Singh, learned
counsel that the plaintiff that the plaintiff has no objection if the
defendant may use the word LIV along RFA (OS) No.90/2010 Page 51 of 52 with
suffixes which may not be visually, phonetically or structurally similar to
the trade of the plaintiff.
59\. For the aforesaid reasons, we allow the appeal. The judgment and decree
dated 3rd June, 2010 is set aside. Suit of the plaintiff with regard to
infringement of trade mark is decreed. The defendant is restrained from using
the mark LIV as part of its trade mark LIV-T while dealing with the medicinal
preparations. Decree be drawn accordingly. Since the present litigation is
pending for the last more than 15 years and as of today the infringing mark is
being used by the defendant for the last 20 years, the defendant is granted
    MANMOHAN SINGH, J.
1\. The above mentioned appeal has been filed by the appellant (hereinafter
referred to as plaintiff) against the judgment and decree dated 3rd June, 2010
passed by the learned Single Judge in CS(OS) No. 111/2006 (old Suit
No.1305/1996) whereby the suit against the respondent (hereinafter referred to
as defendant) for infringement of trade mark Liv.52 by use of trade mark LIV-T
by the defendant was dismissed and it was held that there is no case made out
of infringement of registered trade mark.
2\. The facts leading to filing of abovementioned appeal are that the RFA (OS)
No.90/2010 Page 1 of 52 plaintiff is the owner of the trademark ‗Liv.52'
registered under registration No.180564 in class 5 as of 10th July, 1957 in
respect of medicinal preparation for treatment of disorder of liver. The said
trade mark has been used since the year 1955. The case of the plaintiff is
that the use of the trade mark LIV-T by the defendant in relation to medicinal
preparation for curing liver disorder amounting to infringement of plaintiff's
trade mark Liv.52 as the essential and distinguishable feature LIV which is
distinctive and is used by the defendant. The trade mark LIV-T used by the
defendant is phonetically and structurally identical with or deceptively
similar to Liv.52 thus the same is in violation of statutory and exclusive
rights granted in favour of the appellant under Section 29(1) of the Trade and
Merchandise Marks Act, 1958.
3\. The case set up by the defendant is that the word ‗LIV' is generic and
common to the trade as the medicines in question manufactured and marketed by
both the parties are meant for treatment of liver. Two products of parties are
different products; one is an ayurvedic medicine and the other homeopathic
preparation. The ayurvedic proprietary medicine is not sold through
homeopathic outlets. Packaging and colour combination of two labels are
different so as all other features. The composition of two products is also
different. It is submitted that the organ liver in the pharmaceutical trade is
often abbreviated as LIV and is used as a first syllable of over 50
pharmaceutical companies, include trademarks such as LIV CARD, LIV- UP, LIV-
RIL-z, LIVO, LIVO-10, al, LIVAPLEX, LIVOFIT, LIVA, LIVOL, LIVDRO, LIVAZOL,
LIVERITE, LIVERJET, LIVERNUT, LIVERPOL, LIVUP, LIVEX, LIVIVRON, LIVIBEE,
LIVINA, LIVINOL, LIVINOL, LIVIPREP, LIVIRILE, LIVIRONVITA, LIVIRUBRA and
LIVITA. Furthermore, LIV has been adopted as a first syllabus by various RFA
(OS) No.90/2010 Page 2 of 52 companies from a period prior to the claimed
adoption of Liv.52 by the plaintiff itself which they claim since 1955. There
are over 100 registrations in the record of the trademark registry as per the
search reports obtained which show that many traders have applied for
registration or obtained the registration containing the word LIV. Therefore,
there can be no monopoly of the word LIV.
4\. From the pleadings of the parties, the following issues were framed by way
order dated 30th November, 1998:
> ―1. Whether the plaint is signed, verified and the suit is instituted by a
> duly competent and authorized person?
> 2\. Whether this Court has no territorial jurisdiction to entertain the
> present suit? OPD
> 3\. Whether the suit is maintainable in its present form?
> 4\. Whether there is no cause of action for institution of the present suit?
> OPD
> 5\. Whether the suit is barred by limitation? OPD
> 6\. Whether the suit is bad for non-joinder of necessary parties? OPD
> 7\. Whether the suit is barred by principles of estoppel and waiver? OPD
> 8\. Whether the products of the defendant company can be sold only through
> homeopathic outlets? OPD
> 9\. Whether the Plaintiff is the proprietor of the trade mark ―Liv.52‖ in
> respect of drugs and Pharmaceuticals? OPP RFA (OS) No.90/2010 Page 3 of 52
> 10\. Whether the use of trade mark ―LIV-T‖ by the defendant amounts to
> infringement of trade mark registration numbers 180564, 290061 and 401959 in
> class 5? OPP
> 11\. Whether the use of trade mark ―LIV-T‖ by the defendant amounts to
> passing off the goods of the defendant as that of the plaintiff? OPP
> 12\. Whether the word mark ―LIV‖ is Publici juris and if so, to what effect?
> OPD
> 13\. Whether the suit suffers from delay, laches and acquiescence and if so,
> to what effect? OPD
> 14\. Whether the plaintiff is entitled to relief for rendition of accounts
> and if so, its nature of relief? OPP
> 15\. Relief.‖
5\. The plaintiff examined six witnesses namely PW-1 Mr.K.N. Jairaman, PW-2
Mr.Satish Doval, PW-3 Mr.V.Vashisht, PW-4 Mr.Deepak Ohri, PW-5 Mr.Atul Sarin
and PW-6 Mr.Navin Dutt. The defendant produced three witnesses, namely, DW-1
Mr.Sangeet Aggarwal, Manager-Finance & Accounts, DW-2 Mr.Rakesh Saxena, Search
Assistant of Indmark, and DW-3 Mr.Amarnath Saini, an employee of the
defendant.
6\. After recording the evidence of the parties, the learned Single Judge
dismissed the suit of the plaintiff by the impugned judgment. The issue-wise
findings are given by the learned Single Judge. There was no contest on issues
No.1 to 7 and 13. Therefore, the said issues are decided in favour of the
plaintiff. Issue No.11 claiming relief of passing off was not pressed by the
plaintiff. Since the suit was dismissed, issue No.14 relating to relief of
rendition of accounts and issue No.15 with regard to cost were also not
pressed by the plaintiff as recorded in para 2 of the judgment. With regard
RFA (OS) No.90/2010 Page 4 of 52 to issue No.9, the plaintiff proved the
registration certificate of trade mark 180564 dated 10 of July, 1957 for the
trade mark Liv.52 as Ex.PW-1/B. The said issue was decided in favour of the
plaintiff. Issue No.8 was answered by the learned Single Judge holding that
the defendant's drugs need not be sold only through homeopathic outlets but
also through chemist shops which sell all forms of medicines as long as they
conform to the requirements of the DCA and are duly licenced for that purpose.
Remaining two issues i.e. issue No.10 of infringement of trade mark and issue
No.12 whether the word mark ‗LIV' is publici juris were decided against the
plaintiff and on the basis of findings arrived in these issues, the suit of
the plaintiff was dismissed. It was held by the learned Single Judge in his
judgment that there is no visual, phonetic or structural similarity in the two
trademarks which is likely to cause confusion and deception and use of the
trade mark LIV-T by the defendant does not amount to infringement of
registered trade mark of the plaintiff bearing Nos.180564, 290061 and 401959
in class 5. On issue No.12, the finding of the learned Single Judge was that
the defendant has been able to show that the mark ‗LIV' is publici juris and
therefore, when two trademarks Liv.52 and LIV-T are compared, ‗LIV' will be
considered as the generic and non-distinctive part of the mark and it is to be
ignored even if the two rival marks as a whole.
7\. Aggrieved by the impugned judgment, the plaintiff filed an appeal under
Section 96 of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908. The findings arrived at by
the learned Single Judge on issue Nos.10 and 12 have been challenged in the
appeal by the plaintiff. Both parties have made their respective submissions.
8\. Mr.Hemant Singh, learned counsel appearing on behalf of the RFA (OS)
No.90/2010 Page 5 of 52 appellant admits that in case after considering the
evidence produced by the plaintiff, if this Court finds that there is no
visual, phonetic and structural similarity of two rival marks Liv.52 and LIV-T
and at the strength of the evidence produced by the defendant, the mark ‗LIV'
is a generic word and it has become publici juris, then the appeal must fail.
According to him, mark LIV was taken from the name of human organ LIVER but
the same was coined by the plaintiff in the year 1955. It was registered in
the year 1957. It is the essential feature of the registered trademark
‗Liv.52'. Its validity has not been challenged by the defendant, rather it was
protected by the Courts and from time to time by the Tribunals. The LIV is not
a medically used term and the products of the parties are available in the
chemist shops without any doctor's prescription. None of the document has been
proved by the defendant.
Mr.Hemant Singh, learned counsel assailed the findings arrived by the learned
Single Judge by stating that they are not correct as the plaintiff pressed its
relief only for infringement of trade mark but the test of passing off was
applied while deciding the case as if in the case of infringement even, the
court can easily assume that there exists a non distinctive portion in the
mark. He submits that trade mark Liv.52 is exclusively associated with the
goods of the plaintiff for the last 57 years, the word LIV is not a generic
word or becomes common to the trade. He states that plaintiff is still stand
by the statement made by PW-1, Sh.K.N.Jairaman. There are marks containing the
lengthy suffixes after the word LIV which has been used by many traders for
which the plaintiff also seriously does not stress upon, however in those
cases, the existence of three to four letter suffixes or words by themselves
would make the mark sufficiently distinguishable from that of RFA (OS)
No.90/2010 Page 6 of 52 the plaintiff mark. Therefore, in those cases, if the
test of comparing the residual portion of the mark may be applied, there is no
difficulty to arrive at the finding that the marks are sufficiently
distinguishable from each other or different from each other. But it would be
futile to apply the same test of the seeing the residual portion between the
mark Liv.52 and LIV T in the instant case so as to say as if the plaintiff's
mark is identified by the numeral 52 and the defendant's mark would be
identified by the alphabet T. It is inconceivable that such is the case as
neither the plaintiff nor defendant has said so or shown on evidence like the
same nor the same is the case of the parties. Therefore, the said test which
may hold good in some cases containing the residual non distinctive portion
may not be applicable in the peculiar case like this.
In view of his submission, Mr.Hemant Singh reiterated his submission canvassed
before the learned single judge that the plaintiff has no objection if the
defendant may change the mark by adding any vowel in between ‗LIV' and ‗T'
within reasonable time in order to resolve the dispute. As per him, the
defendant should follow the practice of the trade as per the details provided
by the defendant itself. He submits that the mark ‗LIV' as a standalone mark
coupled with alphabet or numeral is similar to the plaintiff's mark thus
cannot be allowed to continue to remain in the market. For example, the
defendant is free to use the mark LIVT (together), Livet, LIVISE, LIVO-T,
LIVA-T, LIVUP-T LIVORINA, LIVAT, LIVOT, LIVER-T, LIVUT or any other
combination as per trade trend to the trade marks who are using the mark LIV
as prefix component by adding the suffix in such a manner which is not
visually and phonetically similar.
9\. Let us now consider the rival contentions of the parties in the light of
RFA (OS) No.90/2010 Page 7 of 52 facts and evidence adduced by the parties
before the learned trial court and see as to whether the findings arrived by
the trial court in the issue no. 10 and issue no 12 are correct.
10\. As suit was filed in the year 1996, being Suit No.1305/1996; it was
valued for the purposes of court fee and jurisdiction at `5,05,000/-. With the
increase of pecuniary jurisdiction of the District Court, the matter was
transferred to the District Court. Thereafter, the plaintiff moved an
application under Order VI, Rule 17 CPC for amendment of plaint on the ground
that the plaintiff believed that the profits made by the defendant must be in
excess of Rs.20 lacs and accordingly the plaintiff sought to amend the plaint
by incorporating para 16(d) of the plaint and the application was duly allowed
by the order dated 29th March, 2005 passed by the Additional District Judge,
Delhi. The matter was re-transferred to this Court and the suit was re-
numbered as CS(OS) No. 111/2006. In between, Trade and Merchandise Marks Act,
1958 was amended to new legislation Trade Marks Act, 1999 applicable with
effect from 15th September, 2003. Under the saving clause of Section 159(4) of
the new Act, the suit proceeding which was initiated prior to amendment is to
continue under the old Act i.e. the Trade and Merchandise Marks Act, 1958.
11\. We are proposing to answer the issue no. 10 and issue 12 together as the
one issue relates to infringement of the trade mark and another issue is based
on the defence set up by the defendant which is that the word LIV is publici
juris and both are inter linked to each other.
12\. Before any proceeding further in the matter, it is noteworthy to mention
that the present proceedings are governed by the provisions of the Trade and
Merchandise Marks Act 1958, therefore it is necessary to refer to RFA (OS)
No.90/2010 Page 8 of 52 few provisions of the Trade and Merchandise Marks Act,
1958 which are unlike Trade Marks Act 1999\. The same are:-
> ―2. Definitions and interpretation:
> (d) ―deceptively similar‖: A mark shall be deemed to be deceptively similar
> to another mark if it so nearly resembles that other mark as to be likely to
> deceive or cause confusion;
> (j) ―mark‖ includes a device, brand, heading, label, ticket, name,
> signature, word, letter or numeral or any combination thereof;
> (v) ―trade mark‖ means -
> (i) In relation to Chapter X (other than section 81), a registered trade
> mark or a mark used in relation to goods for the purpose of indicating or so
> as to indicate a connection in the course of trade between the goods and
> some person having the right as proprietor to use the mark; and
> (ii) In relation to the other provisions of this Act, a mark used or
> proposed to be used in relation to goods for the purpose of indicating or so
> as to indicate a connection in the course of trade between the goods and
> some person having the right, either as proprietor or as registered user, to
> use the mark whether with or without any indication of the identity of that
> person, and includes a certification trade mark registered as such under the
> provisions of Chapter VIII;......
> 28\. Rights conferred by registration.--(1) Subject to the other provisions
> of this Act, the registration of a trade mark in Part A or Part B of the
> register shall, if valid, give to the registered proprietor of the trade
> mark the exclusive right to the use of the trade mark in relation to the
> goods in respect of which RFA (OS) No.90/2010 Page 9 of 52 the trade mark is
> registered and to obtain relief in respect of infringement of the trade mark
> in the manner provided by this Act.........
> 29\. Infringement of trademarks.--(1) A registered trade mark is infringed
> by a person who, not being the registered proprietor of the trade mark or a
> registered user thereof using by way of permitted use, uses in the course of
> a trade mark which is identical with, or deceptively similar to, the trade
> mark, in relation to any goods in respect of which the trade mark is
> registered and in such manner as to render the use of the mark likely to be
> taken as being used as a trade mark......
> x x x x x x
> 31\. Registration to be prima facie evidence of validity.
> 1\. In all legal proceedings relating to a trade mark registered under this
> Act (including applications under section 56), the original registration of
> the trade mark and of all subsequent assignments and transmissions of the
> trade mark shall be prima facie evidence of the validity thereof.
> 2\. In all legal proceedings as aforesaid a trade mark registered in Part A
> of the register shall not be held to be invalid on the ground that it was
> not registrable trade mark under section 9 except upon evidence of
> distinctiveness and that such evidence was not submitted to the Registrar
> before registration, if it is proved that the trade mark had been so used by
> the registered proprietor or his predecessor-in-title as to have become
> distinctive at the date of registration.
> 32\. Registration to be conclusive as to validity after seven years -
> Subject to the provisions of RFA (OS) No.90/2010 Page 10 of 52 section 35
> and section 46, in all legal proceedings relating to a trade mark registered
> in Part A of the register including applications under section (56), the
> original registration of the trade mark shall, after the expiration of seven
> years from the date of such registration, be taken to be valid in all
> respects unless it is proved-
> (a) that the original registration was obtained by fraud; or
> (b) that the trade mark was registered in contravention of the provisions of
> section 11 or offends against the provisions of that section on the date of
> commencement of the proceedings; or
> (c) that the trade mark was not, at the commencement of the proceedings,
> distinctive of the goods of registered proprietor.
> x x x x x x
> 56\. Power to cancel or vary registration and to rectify the register. (1)
> On application made in the prescribed manner to a High Court or to the
> Registrar by any person aggrieved, the tribunal may make such order as it
> may think fir for cancelling of varying the registration of a trade mark on
> the ground of any contravention, or failure to observe a condition entered
> on the register in relation thereto.
> (2) Any person aggrieved by the absence or omission from the register of any
> entry, or by any entry made in the register without sufficient cause, or by
> any entry wrongly remaining on the register, or by any error or defect in
> any entry in the register may apply in the prescribed manner to a High Court
> or to the Registrar, and the tribunal may make such order for making,
> expunging or varying the entry as it may think fit.
> (3) The tribunal may in any proceeding under RFA (OS) No.90/2010 Page 11 of
> 52 this section decide any question that may be necessary or expedient to
> decide in connection with the rectification of the register.
> (4) The tribunal, of its own motion, may, after giving notice in the
> prescribed manner to the parties concerned and after giving them an
> opportunity of being heard, make any order referred to in sub-section (1) or
> sub-section (2).
> (5) Any order of the High Court rectifying the register shall direct that
> notice of the rectification shall be served upon the Registrar in the
> prescribed manner who shall upon receipt of such notice rectify the register
> accordingly.
> (6) The power to rectify the register conferred by this section shall
> include the power to remove a trade mark registered in Part A of the
> register to Part B of the register.
> x x x x x x
> 111\. Stay of proceedings where the validity of registration of the trade
> mark is questioned etc. (1) Where in any suit for the infringement of a
> trade mark-
> (a) the defendant pleads that the registration of the plaintiff's trade mark
> is invalid; or
> (b) the defendant raises a defence under clause (d) of sub- section (1) of
> section 30 and the plaintiff pleads the invalidity of the registration of
> the defendant's trade mark;
> the court trying the suit (hereinafter referred to as the court), shall,-
> (i) if any proceedings for rectification of the register in relation to the
> plaintiff's or defendant's trade mark are pending before the Registrar or
> the High Court, RFA (OS) No.90/2010 Page 12 of 52 stay the suit pending the
> final disposal of such proceedings;
> (ii) if no such proceedings are pending and the court is satisfied that the
> plea regarding the invalidity of the registration of the plaintiff's or
> defendant's trade mark is prima facie tenable, raise an issue regarding the
> same and adjourn the case for a period of three months from the date of the
> framing of the issue in order to enable the party concerned to apply to the
> High Courtfor rectification of the register.
> (2) If the party concerned proves to the court that he has made any such
> application as is referred to in clause (b)(ii) of sub-section (1) Within
> the time specified therein or within such extended time as the court may for
> sufficient cause allow, the trial of the suit shall stand stayed until the
> final disposal of the rectification proceedings.
> (3) If no such application as aforesaid has been made within the time so
> specified or within such extended time as the court may allow, the issue as
> to the validity of the registration of the trade mark concerned shall be
> deemed to have been abandoned and the court shall proceed with the suit in
> regard to the other issues in the case.
> (4) The final order made in any rectification proceedings referred to in
> sub-section (1) or sub- section (2) shall be binding upon the parties and
> the court shall dispose of the suit conformably to such order in so far as
> it relates to the issue as to the validity of the registration of the trade
> mark.
> (5) The stay of a suit for the infringement of a trade mark under this
> section shall not preclude the court making any interlocutory order
> (including any order granting an injunction, directing, accounts to be kept,
> RFA (OS) No.90/2010 Page 13 of 52 appointing a receiver or attaching any
> property), during the period of the stay of the suit.‖
13\. Upon collective reading of the aforementioned provisions, it can be
deduced that the entire scheme of the Act is that a mark shall be deemed to be
deceptively similar to another mark if it so nearly resembles that other mark
as to be likely to deceive or cause confusion. By virtue of registration under
Section 28 of the Trade and Merchandise Marks Act, 1958, if valid, the
registered proprietor of the trade mark gets the exclusive right to use the
trade mark in relation to the goods in which the said trade mark is registered
and to obtain relief in respect of infringements of the trade mark in the
manner provided.
Section 29 i.e. infringement of trademarks, mandates that a registered trade
mark is infringed by a person who not being the registered proprietor uses in
the course of a trade mark which is identical with, or deceptively similar to,
the trade mark, in relation to any goods in respect of which the trade mark is
registered and in such manner as to render the use of the mark likely to be
taken as being used as a trade mark. Under section 31 the registration is
prima facie evidence and in all legal proceedings, a registered trade mark in
Part A of the register shall not be held to be invalid on the ground that it
was not a registerable trade mark under section 9.
Section 32 provides that subject to the provisions of section 35 and 46, in
all legal proceedings relating to a trade mark registered in Part A of the
register the original registration of the trade mark shall, after the expiry
of seven years from the date of such registration, be taken as valid in all
respects unless it is proved that the original registration was obtained by
fraud and it was contrary to Section 11 and on the date of commencement of the
proceedings, the mark was not distinctive of the goods.
RFA (OS) No.90/2010 Page 14 of 52
The said provisions of the registration of the trade mark and conclusiveness
of the registration unless based on some specific grounds is mandate of the
statute and ought to be respected. The said provision of conclusiveness of the
registration of the trade mark after seven years under section 32 of the Act
was present under the old Act and the same very provision is not couched in
same form under the New Trade Marks Act 1999\. The resultant effect of the
same would be that the registrations done under the old Act are conclusive in
all legal proceedings after seven years and the same cannot be lightly
questioned on the basis of the ground of lack of distinctive character.
Given the aforesaid backdrop of the conclusiveness of the registration
envisaged under the Old Act of 1958, let us analyze on facts whether the said
provisions of the Act gets attracted or not and the resultant effect of the
same on the present proceedings.
14\. From the records, it is clear that the application for registration of
Liv.52 was filed on July 10, 1957 and is a presumption of examining the
application at that stage. The registration of the Liv.52 was granted in Part-
A. All this would mean that the registrar ought to have been satisfied while
according the registration of the mark Liv.52 as to the factum of the
distinctiveness. Naturally, the said trade mark is seven years old, the
registration under the provision of Section 32 of the Act to be conclusive as
to validity. Section 2(j) read with Section 2(v) provides inter alia that any
word or name, letter or numeral or any combination thereof can become a trade
mark if a mark used in relation to goods for the purpose of indicating or so
as to indicate a connection in the course of trade between the goods and some
person having the right as proprietor to use the mark. No RFA (OS) No.90/2010
Page 15 of 52 challenge to the registration was made by filing of
rectification proceedings by the defendant. No grounds of the challenge as per
section 32 of the Act have been raised by the defendants to counter the
validity of the registration. Consequently, the registrations of mark Liv.52
granted under the Part A of the Old Act shall be conclusive as to validity.
15\. The said discussion relating to conclusiveness of the registration under
the old Act is missing in the impugned judgment, though the learned single
judge arrived at the finding in answer to issue no. 9 that the plaintiff is
the proprietor of the mark Liv.52 and decided the issue in favour of the
plaintiff. We think that the said finding as to conclusiveness of the validity
of the registration is essential to be decided in the instant case which is to
be decided under the Old Act. The said finding as to the validity of the
registration has a direct bearing in answering issue no. 10 relating to the
word LIV being publici juris and consequently warrants discussion vis-a-vis
the arguments of the defendant. We believe that if the learned single judge
while deciding the question of the LIV being publici juris or generic
component should have taken into account the conclusiveness of the
registration in instant case, it would not have persuaded learned single judge
to proceed on a priori basis that the LIV is a generic component and thus
ought to be excluded for the purposes of measuring deceptive resemblance.
16\. The rival marks and packaging on the date of filing of the suit are
scanned as under:
RFA (OS) No.90/2010 Page 16 of 52
Test of Infringement
17\. In order to establish infringement, the main ingredients of Section 29
are that the plaintiff's mark must be registered under the Trade and
Merchandise Marks Act, 1958, the defendant's mark is identical with or
deceptively similar to the registered trade, the defendant's use of the mark
is in the course of trade in respect of the goods covered by the registered
trade mark. The rival marks are to be compared as a whole. Where two rival
marks are identical, it is not necessary for the plaintiff to prove further
that the use of defendant's trade mark is likely to deceive and cause
confusion as the registration shows the title of the registered proprietor and
the things speak for themselves. In an infringement action, once a mark is
used as indicating commercial origin by the defendant, no amount of added
matter intended to show the true origin of the goods can effect the question.
If court finds that the defendant's mark is closely, visually and phonetically
RFA (OS) No.90/2010 Page 17 of 52 similar, even then no further proof is
necessary. It is not necessary for the plaintiff to adduce evidence of actual
deception in order to prove the case of infringement. If packing of two
products is different in an action of infringement, the same is immaterial.
Its validity cannot be challenged in the infringement proceedings under the
Trade and Merchandise Marks Act, 1958\. (See Corn Products Refining Co. v.
Shangrila Food Products Ltd. (supra), AIR 1963 SC 449 (V 50 C 63), Amritdhara
Pharmacy Vs. Satya Deo Gupta and AIR 1965 SC 980, Kaviraj Pandit Durga Dutt
Sharma Vs. Navaratna Pharmaceutical Laboratories, 1999 PTC (19) 81 (Del) (para
15), Automatic Electric Limited v. R.K. Dhawan and Anr. and 1963 Madras page
12 S.A.P. Balraj and Ors. Vs. S.P.V. Nadar and Sons and Another) Legal Effect
of Registration
18\. On registration of a trade mark the registered proprietor gets under
Section 28 the exclusive right to the use of such trade marks in relation to
the goods in respect of which the trade mark is registered and to obtain
relief in respect of any infringement of such trade mark. The action for
infringement is a statutory remedy conferred on the registered proprietor of a
registered trade mark for the vindication of the exclusive right to the use of
the trade mark in relation to those goods. (See Kaviraj Pandit Durga Dutt
Sharma Vs. Navaratna Pharmaceutical Laboratories (supra) and AIR 1971 SC 898,
National Bell Co. v. Metal Goods Mfg. Co.) Essential Features
19\. The courts have propounded the doctrine of prominent and essential
feature of the trade mark for the purposes of adjudication of the disputes
relating to infringement of trade mark. While deciding the question of RFA
(OS) No.90/2010 Page 18 of 52 infringement, the court has to see the prominent
or the dominant feature of the trade mark. Even the learned single judge
agrees to this proposition when the learned judge quotes McCarthy on Trade
Marks that all composite marks are to be compared as whole. However, it is
dependent on case to case to basis as a matter of jury question as to what can
be the possible broad and essential feature of the trade mark in question.
20\. It is settled law that where the defendant's mark contains the essential
feature of the plaintiff's mark combined with other matter, the correct
approach for the court is to identify an essential feature depending
particularly ―on the court's own judgment and burden of the evidence that is
placed before the Court‖. In order to come to the conclusion whether one mark
is deceptively similar to another, the broad and essential features of the two
are to be considered. They should not be placed side by side to find out if
there are differences, rather overall similarity has to be judged. While
judging the question as to whether the defendant has infringed the trade mark
or not, the court has to consider the overall impression of the mark in the
minds of general public and not by merely comparing the dissimilarities in the
two marks.
21\. The ascertainment of an essential feature is not to be by ocular test
alone but if a word forming part of the mark has come in trade to be used to
identify the goods of the owner of the trade mark, it is an infringement of
the mark itself to use that word as the mark or part of the mark of another
trader for which confusion is likely to result. The likelihood of confusion or
deception in such cases is not disproved by placing the two marks side by side
and demonstrating how small is the chance of error in any customer who places
his order for goods with both the marks clearly before him, for RFA (OS)
No.90/2010 Page 19 of 52 orders are not placed, or are often not placed, under
such conditions. It is more useful to observe that in most persons the eye is
not an accurate recorder of visual detail and that marks are remembered rather
by general impressions or by some significant detail than by any photographic
recollection of the whole‖. In the decision reported as (1951) 68 RPC 103 at
page 105, De Cordova v. Vick Chemical Co., the plaintiffs were the proprietors
of a label containing the words ―Vick's VapoRub‖ as the essential feature,
registered in Jamaica, and the defendants used a similar label with the words
―Karsote Vapour Rub‖ as the essential feature, and it was shown that the
expression ―VapoRub‖ had become distinctive of the plaintiff's goods in
Jamaica, an action for infringement was successful. (See De Cordova v. Vick
Chemical Co. (supra), (1941) 58 RPC 147, Saville Perfumery Ld. v. June Perfect
Ld., AIR 1972 SC 1359 at 1362, M/s. National Chemicals and Colour Co. and
Others v. Reckitt and Colman of India Limited and AIR 1991 Bombay 76, M/s
National Chemicals and Colour Co. and others vs. Reckitt and Colman of India
Limited and another)
22\. Identification of essential features of the trade marks has been
discussed in details in the case of Kaviraj Pandit Durga Dutt Sharma vs.
Navaratna Pharmaceutical Laboratories (supra):-
> ―In an action for infringement, the plaintiff must, no doubt, make out that
> the use of the defendant's mark is likely to deceive, but where the
> similarity between the plaintiff's and the defendant's mark is so close
> either visually, phonetically or otherwise and the court reaches the
> conclusion that there is an imitation, no further evidence is required to
> establish that the plaintiff's rights are violated. Expressed in another
> way, if the essential features of the trade mark of the plaintiff have been
> adopted by the defendant, the fact that the get-up, packing and other
> writing or marks on the goods or on RFA (OS) No.90/2010 Page 20 of 52 the
> packets in which he offers his goods for sale show marked differences, or
> indicate clearly a trade origin different from that of the registered
> proprietor of the mark would be immaterial;......
> ―When once the use by the defendant of the mark which is claimed to infringe
> the plaintiff's mark is shown to be ―in the course of trade‖, the question
> whether there has been an infringement is to be decided by comparison of the
> two marks. Where the two marks are identical no further questions arise; for
> then the infringement is made out....‖
23\. The Court in determining whether the Defendant's mark is deceptively
similar to the mark of the Plaintiffs were enunciated in the judgment of
Mr.Justice Parker in the decision reported as 1906(23) RPC 774, Pionotist
Case:
> ―You must take the two words. You must judge them, both by their look and by
> their sound. You must consider the goods to which they are to be applied.
> You must consider the nature and kind of customer who would be likely to buy
> those goods. In fact, you must consider all the surrounding circumstances;
> and you must further consider what is likely to happen if each of those
> trademarks is used in a normal way as a trade mark for the goods of the
> respective owners of the marks. If, considering all those circumstances, you
> come to the conclusion that there will be a confusion - that is to say, not
> necessarily that one man will be injured and the other will gain illicit
> benefit, but that there will be a confusion in the mind of the public which
> will lead to confusion in the goods - then you may refuse the registration,
> or rather you must refuse the registration in that case.
Likelihood of Confusion and Deception
24\. In the decision reported as AIR 1951 Bombay 147, James Chadwick & Bros.
Ltd. v. The National Sewing Thread Co. Ltd, Chagla C.J. and Bhagwati, J.;
referring to the words "likely to deceive or cause confusion" in RFA (OS)
No.90/2010 Page 21 of 52 section 10 of the Trade Marks Act, 1940, observed at
page 152 as follows:-
> ―Now in deciding whether a particular trade mark is likely to deceive or
> cause confusion, it is not sufficient merely to compare it with the trade
> mark which is already registered and whose proprietor is offering opposition
> to the registration of the former trade mark. What is important is to find
> out what is the distinguishing or essential feature of the trade mark
> already registered and what is the main feature or the main idea underlying
> that trade mark, and if it is found that the trade mark whose registration
> is sought contains the same distinguishing or essential feature or conveys
> the same idea, then ordinarily the Registrar would be right if he came to
> the conclusion that the trade mark should not be registered. The real
> question is as to how a purchaser, who must be looked upon as an average man
> of ordinary intelligence, would react to a particular trade mark, what
> association he would form by looking at the trade mark, and in what respect
> he would connect the trade mark with the goods which he would be purchasing.
> It is impossible to accept that a man looking at a trade mark would take in
> every single feature of the trade mark. The question would be, what would he
> normally retain in his mind after looking at the trade mark? What would be
> the salient feature of the trade mark which in future would lead him to
> associate the particular goods with that trade mark?"
The decisions referred with regard to essential features were followed by the
Division Bench in the decision reported as ILR 1973 Delhi 393, M/s. Atlas
Cycle Industries Ltd. Vs. Hind Cycles Limited. The Division Bench has examined
the similar question very thoroughly while dealing with the two rival
trademarks Royal Star and Eastern Star of the parties and has come to the
conclusion that the trade mark adopted and used by the defendant Royal Star is
similar to plaintiff's trade mark Eastern Star.
In the decision reported as (1945) 65 RPC 62, Aristoc v. Rysta decided RFA
(OS) No.90/2010 Page 22 of 52 by the House of Lords, it was held that the
comparison of trademarks was a matter of first impression, but the mark
―Rysta‖ too closely resembled mark ―Aristoc‖ phonetically and it would be
liable to lead to deception and confusion.
25\. After having considered the above mentioned decisions, it is clear to us
that it is not the right test of a meticulous comparison of two marks, letter
by letter and syllable by syllable. It is the person who only knows the one
mark and has perhaps an impression, or imperfect recollection of it, who is
likely to be deceived or confused. In fact it depends on first impression of a
person. In case he is aware or familiar with both rival marks of the parties
he will neither be deceived or confused. The degree of similarity between the
two rival marks and which depends upon the first impression whether visual or
phonetic and in case court finds that there is a risk of confusion which is
the public interest should not be authorised. The question is merely the
dispute of inter se between the parties but it is matter of right by the
registered proprietor who got the exclusive rights to protect the same,
otherwise, many competing marks would be available in the market in due course
and uncertainty might happen in case the infringer is allowed to use similar
mark.
26\. In the present case, it was not disputed by the defendant that the
plaintiff is registered proprietor of the trade mark Liv.52 which is
registered as of 10th July, 1957 and the same is being used since 1955. There
was no disclaimer or any condition put by the Registrar of Trade Marks to the
mark LIV at the time of granting registration. Validity of the registration
was not challenged by filing of rectification proceedings. It is recorded by
the learned Single Judge in his impugned judgment that the defendant had RFA
(OS) No.90/2010 Page 23 of 52 proceeded his case on the footing that the
plaintiff has a valid registration for Liv.52 and while deciding issue No.8,
it has been held that the defendant's drugs need not be sold only through
homeopathic outlets but also through chemist shops which sell all forms of
medicines.
27\. The learned Single Judge by referring passages from Mc-Carthy on Trade
Marks and Unfair Competition and Gilson on Trade Mark (2008 Edn, Lexis Nexis)
has come to the conclusion that the evidence produced by the plaintiff does
not satisfy the requirement of showing either likelihood of confusion of the
actual deception. The reasons given in the judgment are that during the long
pendency of the case if there were any likelihood of confusion, it should have
been reflected in a drop of sales of the plaintiff's drugs. As the sales
turnover in Liv.52 has been progressing from year to year, it does not appear
that LIV-T has made any dent whatsoever in the market for Liv.52.
The learned Single Judge after applying the anti-dissection rule, came to the
conclusion that where the trademark includes a generic component, the
manufacturers are not precluded from using as part of their marks the said
generic component as the same are not the distinctive portion and the dominant
portion would be dissimilar or non generic portion and when the comparison of
the marks are taken up as a whole, the distinctive portion of the trademark
i.e. non-generic component would have to be compared and not the generic
component which is considered to be non-distinctive and week component cannot
form the basis for comparison.
The visual impact of the two marks Liv.52 and LIV-T are different as there is
essentially no difference between an alphabet and a numeral. They also do not
sound phonetically similar. Nature of the products which are RFA (OS)
No.90/2010 Page 24 of 52 being sold are not similar. There is unlikely to be
any mistake in administering LIV-T instead of Liv.52. It is unlikely then
unwary customer entering into a chemist shop asking for Liv.52 and he would
get LIV-T. An user of Ayurvedic medicine or of homeopathic medicine
understands the distinction between the two. Even if the registration is
validly granted and not challenged by the defendant by filing of cancellation
proceedings, the question that still remains is whether the use of LIV-T
amounts to infringement of plaintiff's trade mark Liv.52.
28\. We find that the finding of the learned single judge laying down rules of
comparison on the basis of the applicability of anti dissection rule quoted
from McCarthy on Trade Marks is not the correct approach to be applied in the
instant case. We agree with the said proposition that there may arises cases
where the trade marks comprises of the portions which have some nexus with the
name of the ailment or organ or salt and the same portion may be termed as
generic component. Actually, whether a particular mark is a generic mark or
portion of the mark is generic component is essentially a question of fact.
Further, what level of distinctiveness, it has attained in market by its long
standing user in the market, whether the said descriptiveness is withered away
by way of acquired distinctiveness is another question to be answered by way
of seeing the facts and circumstances of the case and the evidence of the
parties. Let us see whether on facts and evidence, such burden of the
defendant to show the generic nature of the word ―LIV‖ is discharged.
Evidence of Plaintiff
29\. PW-1 Mr.K.N.Jairaman, the Commercial Manager of the plaintiff stated that
Liv.52 is a coined trade mark of the plaintiff and the word ‗LIV' RFA (OS)
No.90/2010 Page 25 of 52 is not a medically used term and it is sold without
medical prescription. The product is sold through the plaintiff's 500
stockists throughout the country. The plaintiff has also produced the sales
figures and promotional expenses figures of Liv.52 as Ex.PW-1/A. The
registration is proved as Ex.PW-1/B. Invoices of sales have been exhibited as
Ex.PW-1/1 to PW-1/38. Ex.PW-1 to PW-1/14 are the literature materials
pertaining to the trade mark ‗Liv.52'. In 1987, the sale of Liv.52 was Rs.9.36
crores. In 1987-88, the promotional expenses were Rs.93 lacs for the product.
In the year 1996-97, the turnover for Liv.52 was over Rs.35 crores and
promotional expenses Rs.3.5 crores, and in the year 2008-09 the annual sale
was over 91 crores and annual promotional expenses Rs.9 crores. PW-4, 5 & 6,
the Medical Representatives of the plaintiff, conducted survey on the
significance of the distinctiveness of ‗LIV'. They have produced several
reports, some of which were exhibited as Ex.PW-4/1 to PW-4/4, PW-5/1 to
PW-5/4, PW-6/1 and PW-6/2.
PW-1 in his statement has also stated that in the past also the plaintiff has
taken action against other persons using word ‗LIV'. He has provided the
instances where the plaintiff has opposed against the use of the marks
‗Liv.up', ‗Liv-Ril' and ‗Liv-Card'. PW-2 in his statement has clearly stated
that if he comes across any promotion or literature of ‗LIV-T', he will assume
that it is another product from the manufacturer of Liv.52. The plaintiff has
exhibited the copies of the orders, undertaking given by the parties who tried
to copy the mark LIV who were using the deceptively similar trade mark, in
order to prove that the mark LIV was protected from time to time, details of
the same are given as under:-
       Sr.No. Impugned          Order/Undertaking              Exhibit
              Trade Mark                                       No./Mark
    RFA (OS) No.90/2010                                            Page 26 of 52
        i)        LIVOLIV     Certified copy of decree of    Ex.PW1/C1
                             District Court of Saharanpur
                             in OS No.5/1974 dated
                             22.5.1974
       ii)       LIVOLIV     Certified copy of judgment     Ex.PW1/C3
                             of OS No.5/1974
       iii)      LIV ER 80   Certified copy of the order    Ex.PW1/C6
                             dated 20.07.1985, Case
                             No.220/S/1982, Bombay
       iv)       LIV A       Original order of Joint        Ex.PW1/C4
                             Registrar of Trade Mark,
                             Calcutta dated 17.01.1978
       v)        LIV-O       Order of Dy. Registrar of      Ex.PW1/C5
                             Trade Mark, Delhi dated
                             05.08.1992
       vi)       LIV ER-82   Certified copy of order        Ex.PW1/C6
                             dated 20.07.1985, Case
                             No.220/S/1982, Bombay
       vii)      LIVSEV      Copy of order dated            Ex.PW1/C7
                             10.07.1989 of Trade Mark
                             Registry, Bombay of M/s
                             Dupor Industries Limited
       viii)     LIVSEV      Copy of order dated            Ex.PW1/C8
                             10.07.1989 of Trade Mark
                             Registry, Bombay of M/s
                             Dupor Industries Limited
       ix)       HAMOLIV     Order of Asstt. Registrar of   Ex.PW1/C9
                             Trade Mark, Bombay dated
                             18.01.1991
       x)        LIV-100     Certified copy of the order    Ex.PW1/C10
                             of Addl. Chief Metropolitan    & C11
                             Magistrate dated 08.12.1982
       xi)       Liv 62      Letter of Undertaking          Mark-A
       xii)      Liv 60      Letter of Undertaking          Mark-B
       xiii)     LIV 60      Letter of Undertaking          Mark-C
       xiv)      LIV 100     Letter of Undertaking          Mark-D
       xv)       EMELIV      Letter of Undertaking          Mark-E
       xvi)      LIVOREX     Letter of Undertaking          Mark-F
       xvii)     LIV 80      Letter of Undertaking          Mark-G
       xviii)    LIV 80      Letter of Undertaking          Mark-H
    RFA (OS) No.90/2010                                        Page 27 of 52
        xix)      LIV ER-52       Letter of Undertaking           Mark-I
       xx)       LIV ER-82       Letter of Undertaking           Mark-J
       xxi)      LIV-H           Letter of Undertaking           Mark-K
       xxii)     LIV 100         Letter of Undertaking           Mark-M
       xxiii)    LIV-100         Letter of Undertaking           Mark-N
       xxiv)     Liveron         Letter of Undertaking           Mark-O
       xxv)      LIV 62          Letter of Undertaking           Mark-P
       xxvi)     LIV.50          Letter of Undertaking           Mark-Q
       xxvii)    LIVER.82        Letter of Undertaking           Mark-Q
PW 4, PW 5 and PW6 medical representatives who conducted survey on
significance of distinctiveness of ‗LIV' and they have produced several
reports some of which were marked as Ex.PW4/1 to PW4/4, PW5/1 to PW5/4 and
PW6/1 to PW6/2 which clearly indicates the distinctiveness of the mark LIV.
The defendant in the cross examination of these witnesses was not able to
demolish these testimonies not produced any witness or report contrary to the
statement made by them.
30\. In the decision reported as (2001) 5 SCC 73, Cadila Healthcare ltd. v.
Cadila pharmaceuticals Ltd., the Apex Court after considering a large number
of judgments of foreign courts as also the Indian courts laid down the
following principles:
> (a) Though drugs are sold under prescription, the actual conditions of the
> society have to be kept in mind.
> (b) Dispensing of drugs by chemists in urban and rural areas as also the
> linguistic difference, lead to higher level of confusion.
> (c) Strict measures to prevent confusion especially in medicinal cases
> should be taken.
> (d) Public interest supports that a lesser degree of proof is required for a
> plaintiff to prove infringement in a pharmaceutical case if RFA (OS)
> No.90/2010 Page 28 of 52 the marks are similar especially in medicinal
> cases.
> (e) Since confusion in drugs and medicines could be life threatening, drugs
> should be treated as poisons and not sweets.
> (f) In a society like India, doctors are under tremendous pressure and
> therefore, any confusion at their level should also be avoided.
> (g) Drugs are available on verbal requests even on telephone and therefore,
> there are higher chances of confusion.
31\. Both parties have given the list of the cases which are decided by
various High Courts including this High Court. The details of few relevant
cases are given as under:-
    Sr.    Case Name            Citation     Name of Drug Compound of            Allowed/
    No.                                      by the parties Origin               Restrained
    i)     Anglo-French         AIR 1984     Beplex(P)      Vitamin-B            Injunction
           Drug Co.             P&H 430                     Complex              granted
           (Eastern) Ltd. Vs.   (DB)         Belplex(D)
           Belco Pharma
    ii)    Allegran Inc., Vs.   1999(19)     Ocuflox       Ocu-ocular            Injunction
           Milment Oftho        PTC 160                                          granted
           Inds.                (Cal) (DB)   Ocuflox       Flox-
                                                           Ciprofloxacin
    iii)   Astra-ldl Limited    AIR 1992     Betaloc(P)    Beta receptors -      Injunction
           Vs. Ttk Pharma       Bom 35                     arteries - drug       granted
           Limited                           Betalong(D)   was to work on
                                                           this part of body
    iv)    Medley               2002(25)     Spoxin(P)     Sparfloxacin          Injunction
           Laboratories (P)     PTC 593                                          granted
           Ltd. & Anr. Vs.      (Bom.)       Supaxin(D)
           Alkem                (DB)
           Laboratories
           Limited
    v)     Sun                  2010 (43)    VENIZ (P)     Venlajaxine           Injunction
           Pharmaceutical       PTC 483                                          granted
           Industries Vs.       (Mad) DB
           Cadila Healthcare                 VENZ (D)
           Ltd.
    vi)    Apex Laboratories    2006 (33)    ZINCOVIT      Zinc                  Injunction
           Ltd. Vs. Zuventus    PTC 492      (P)                                 granted
           Health Care Ltd.     (Mad)
     RFA (OS) No.90/2010                                                 Page 29 of 52
                                   DB            ZINCONIA
                                                (D)
    vii)    Torrent               MANU          CIBA (P)     CLIMETIDINE          Appeal
            Laboratories Ltd.     /GJ/                                            allowed
            Vs. Ciba-Geigy        0344/         ULCIBAN                           Trademark
            Ltd.                  1998 (DB)     (D)                               granted
    viii)   United Biotech        2012 (5)      ORZID (P)    CEFTAZIDINE          Division
            Vs. Orchid            PTC 433                    used to treat        Bench held
            Chemicals &           (Del.) (DB)                many kinds of        marks are
            Pharmaceuticals                     FORZID (D)   bacterial            similar
            Ltd.                                             infections
    ix)     Pankaj Goel Vs.       2008 (38)     RASMOLA      Digestive tables     Appeal
            Dabur India Ltd.      PTC 49        (A)                               dismissed
                                  (Del.) (DB)                                     Injunction
                                                HAJMOLA                           granted
                                                (R)
    x)      Arvind                2007(35)      EYETEX (P)   Eye Lotion           Injunction
            Laboratories vs.      PTC 244                                         granted
            Hahnemann             (SJ)          EYELEX (D)
            Laboratory Pvt.
            Ltd.
    xi)     USV Limited vs.       2003(26)    PIOZ (P)       Pioglitazone         Injunction
            IPCA Laboratories     PTC 21 (SJ)                Hydrochloride        granted
            Limited                           PIOZED (D)
    xii)    Aravind               1981(1)     EYETEX (P)     Eye Tonic            Injunction
            Laboratories vs.      MLJ 75                                          granted
            V.Annamalai           (SJ)        EYESOL (D)
            Chettiar
    xiii)   Schering              2010(42)      TEMOKEM      Temozolomide         Injunction
            Corporation vs.       PTC 772       (P)                               refused
            Alkem                 (Del) DB
            Laboratories Ltd.                   TEMOGET
                                                (D)
    xiv)    Astrazenecea UK       2007(34)      MERONEM(     Meropenem              -do-
            Ltd. vs. Orchid       PTC 469       P)
            Chemicals             (DB) (Del.)
                                                MEROMER(
                                                D)
    xv)     Novartis vs.          2005 (31)     TRIAMINIC    SYAMPATHO-           Injunction
            Wanbury Ltd.          PTC 75        (P)          MIMETIC              refused
                                  (Del.)                     DRUGS
                                                CORIMINIC
                                                (D)
    xvi)    Aviat Chemicals       2001 PTC      LIPICARD     Lipid Corrective     Injunction
            Pvt. Ltd. vs. Intas   601 (Del.)    (P)          Medicines            refused
    RFA (OS) No.90/2010                                                   Page 30 of 52
             Pharmaceuticals
                                              LIPICOR (D)
    xvii    Serum Institute of   2011(47)     ONCO          Bacillus Calmette    Injunction
            India Limited vs.    PTC 452      BCG(P)        Guenn                granted
            Green Signal Bio     (Bom) (SJ)
            Pharma Pvt. Ltd.                  BCG ONCO
            and Anr.                          BP (D)
    xviii   Wyeth Holdings       2008(36)     FOLVITE (P)   Folic Acid           Injunction
            Corporation and      PTC 478                    Vitamin              granted
            Anr. vs. Burnet      (Bom) (SJ)   FOLV (D)
            Pharmaceuticals
            (Pvt.) Ltd.
    xix     Wyeth Holdings       2004(28)     PACITANE(     Trihexylphenidyl, Injunction
            Corp. and Anr. vs.   PTC 423      P)            Anti Spasmodic    granted
            Sun                  (Bom) (SJ)                 Preparations
            Pharmaceuticals                   PARIKTANE
            Industries Ltd.                   (D)
    xx      Boots Company        2002(4)      BRUFEN (P)    Ibuprofen            Registration
            Plc vs. Registrar    BomCR 36                                        rejected
            of Trade Marks       (SJ)         CROFEN (D)
    xxi     Medley               2002(4)      SPOXIN (P)    Sparfloxacin         Injunction
            Laboratories (P)     BomCR 70                   Ofloxacin            granted
            Ltd., Mumbai and     (DB)         SUPAXIN
            Anr. vs. Alkem                    (D)
            Laboratories
            Limited
    xxii    Glaxo Group          2006(33)     BETNOVAT      BETA from            Injunction
            Limited vs. Vipin    PTC 145      E (P)         Betamethasone        granted
            Gupta                Del (SJ)                   and VAT from
                                              BETAVAT       Valerate IP
                                              (D)
    xxiii   Remidex Pharma       2006(33)     ZEVIT (P)     Vitamins             Injunction
            Private Limited      PTC 157                                         granted
            vs. Savita           (Del) (SJ)   EVIT (D)
            Pharmaceuticals
    xxiv    Cadila               66(1997)     MEXATE (P)    Methotrexate         Injunction
            Laboratories Ltd.    DLT 741                    Sodium               not granted
            vs. Dabur India      (SJ)         ZEXATE (D)
            Limited
    xxv     Win-medicare         65(1997)     DICLOMOL(     Diclofenac           Injunction
            Limited vs.          DLT 369      P)            Sodium               granted
            Somacare             (SJ)
            Laboratories                      DICMOL (D)
32\. The suit was filed in May 1996 and it was listed first time before court
RFA (OS) No.90/2010 Page 31 of 52 on 23rd May, 1996 when the summons were
issued and interim order was passed restraining the defendant from using the
mark ‗LIV' or any other deceptively similar mark. The said order was confirmed
after hearing on 12th July, 1996. An appeal was preferred by the defendant
before the Division Bench who allowed the same and interim order was vacated,
inter- alia, on many grounds included of non-compliance of the provisions of
Order XXXIX, Rule 3 of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908.
In the decision reported as 2008 (37) PTC 487 (Delhi), Schering Corporation v.
Getwell Life Sciences Pvt. Ltd. which was affirmed by the Division Bench of
this Court in Schering Corporation v. Alkem Laboratories Ltd., FAO (OS) 313 of
2008, it was held that there was no similarity between ‗Temodal' and ‗Temodar'
since the prefix derived from the name of the chemical compound Temozolomide
to arrive ‗Temodal' and ‗Temodar' on the one hand and ‗Temoget' and ‗Temokem'
on the other. Injunction applications in both the maters were dismissed.
All the cases, laws which are cited are interim order wherein after
considering the prima facie strength of the case of the either sides, prima
facie views are formed. What follows from the same is that, once the court
while deciding the interim applications excludes the generic components for
the purposes of comparison, then the court prima facie believes that there
exists a triable case. However, the party who had taken the plea had to prove
strictly by producing cogent and clear evidence in law.
33\. Let us now discuss the evidence produced by the defendant. The burden to
prove issue No.12 was upon the defendant. The pleadings of the defendant on
this issue were that word ‗LIV' is generic and common to the trade as
describing the medicines associated with the treatment of liver. It RFA (OS)
No.90/2010 Page 32 of 52 has become publici juris in the field of medicine and
it ceases to be subject matter of proprietorship. Once the issues are settled
on the basis of pleading and onus is cast, the burden is upon to lead evidence
and the matter is to be decided on the basis of evidence led. In case, there
is no evidence led by a party on the plea raised by it and not proved by it,
the said plea by itself means nothing.
34\. In examination-in-chief DW1 Mr.Sangeet Aggarwal deposed that the few
cartons filed by the defendant are available in the market. In cross-
examination he did not produce the invoices in respect of Mark B to Mark F as
well as did not remember the other medicines. The defendant did not produce
any witness from traders who could depose before Court that he or any third
party is using the mark LIV as prefix portion of the entire mark and the
actual product of carton marked as Mark A to Mark H is available in the
market. The defendant has also not produced any witness in order to prove that
the word ‗LIV' is generic word and common to the trade and here is the cogent
of a party who got registration and used the ‗LIV' prior to the plaintiff,
even certified copies of pending applications and registrations were not filed
and proved under the law as only certified copies are admissible in evidence
in legal proceedings under Section 115 of the Trade and Merchandise Marks Act,
1958.
35\. Only the search reports of ‗LIV' issued by the private party i.e. M/s
Indmark were exhibited as Ex.DW2/1, Ex.DW2/2 and Ex.DW2/4 and photocopies of
relevant page of Trade Marks Journal were exhibited as DW2/5 in the testimony
of DW-2 Mr.Rakesh Saxena who is the Search Assistant of M/s. Indmark Company
at Green Park Extension, New Delhi. Packaging/cartons were of third party
which have not been provide in RFA (OS) No.90/2010 Page 33 of 52 evidence by
producing witnesses of the respective traders of mark using said cartons filed
by the defendant. The similar is the position of photographs filed. Ex.DW2/1
to Ex.DW2/5 and Mark B to F do not prove that the trade mark mentioned in the
search reports and cartons are used in the mark LIV alone as used by the
plaintiff. In totality, we can easily mention here that not a single witness
was produced by the defendant who had made the statement that mark LIV was
used as alone by any trader in India.
36\. As indicated above, the onus to show that the ―LIV‖ is a generic
component of the mark was essentially on the defendant. The said onus was
heavy and independent in view of the conclusiveness of the registration of the
mark Liv.52 where the word LIV is written in isolation, is represented in a
particular manner and is an essential feature of the mark. From the evidence,
we find that the defendant was not able to prove by producing even single
witness that any trader as per the details mentioned in Ex.DW2/1 to DW2/5 and
labels Mark B to Mark F who could make the testimony in Court that he is using
the mark LIV in isolation or even otherwise. It is not proved from the
documents file that the said word ―LIV‖ is a generic word. There are some
products and labels available on record like the mark LIVOGEN and some other
products wherein there is a use of the word LIV is coupled by the lengthy
suffixes, however the same by itself are few users of the marks which as per
the plaintiff are not objectionable as the depiction of the word LIV is not in
the same manner as that with the defendant. There are no labels or products on
record wherein the word ―LIV‖ is written in the capital words in isolation or
coupled by alphabets or numerals.
37\. There is no finding of court shown besides the orders passed in the
instant case that the LIV is a generic component of the mark. On the other RFA
(OS) No.90/2010 Page 34 of 52 hand, there are orders passed by the tribunals
and lower courts wherein the Liv.52 mark has been protected against the manner
of the representation of LIV along side numerals and alphabets. Consequently,
from the evidence of DW1, it is not emanating that under no circumstances, the
manner of use of the expression LIV is not objectionable or it has become so
public in trade that the plaintiff is estopped from objecting the same. Even
for the pending application and details of registered trade marks mentioned in
the search reports and photocopies of the relevant pages of Trade Marks
Journal, no certified copies, which are admissible in evidence under Section
115 of the Trade and Merchandise Act, 1958 for use in legal proceedings, are
produced and proved in order to establish that the mark LIV is common to the
trade.
38\. Likewise, DW2 has shown the search report which is quite extensive
showing entries on the register wherein LIV prefixed trade marks are cited.
The said witness again does not depose that LIV is generic under all
circumstances and also does support the case with the actual furnishing of the
products. The evidence of DW2 states he did not know how those datas are
collected and datas which were in Ex.DW2/1 to DW2/4 but which were not in
Ex.2/5 were not collected by him. He did not if the trade mark LIV- RIL-Z has
been withdrawn in opposition proceedings BOM-8771. He had no information that
which of the application had been withdrawn, dismissed or rejected from the
one shown in Ex.DW2/1 to DW2/4. He did not know which of the trade marks were
in operation/use from the one which were shown in Ex.DW2/1 to Ex.DW2/4.
Therefore, the defendant was not able to discharge the onus in support of
issue No.12.
39\. It is well settled law that the mere entries on the register of the mark
do not testify the user of the mark. (Corn Products (Supra)). Therefore, even
RFA (OS) No.90/2010 Page 35 of 52 if the defendant's case is to be believed,
mere showing of the search reports do not persuade this court to believe that
the word ―LIV‖ is a generic component in the mark ―Liv.52‖, this is due to the
reason that the plaintiff's bone of contention is that the similarity has to
be seen in the context of the instant case and the manner of the usage of the
mark rather than comparing the same with the other marks where the word LIV is
used along with other words or suffixes.
40\. After considering the evidence led by the defendant to support the case
that the LIV is generic component in the Liv.52 trade mark, we do not find
that on facts and evidence, such weighty evidence exists on record to show
that under no circumstances the manner of the use of the mark ―LIV‖ can be
objected to. Rather, there is a positive evidence on record of Doctors and
others in the form of survey reports which state that the mark Liv.52 is
identified by the customer with the prominent features which is LIV.
41\. The learned Single Judge in the impugned judgment held that the generic
component to be considered as non-distinctive and being a weak component and
cannot form the basis of comparison. The Supreme Court in this context in the
case reported as 2004 (28) PTC 585 (SC), Milment Oftho Vs. Allergan Inc., has
taken the opposite view. The facts of the said case are that the plaintiff
filed the suit for infringement on the basis of the trade mark Ocuflox. The
word Ocu was derived from Ocular and Flox from Ciprofloxacin. The Calcutta
High Court Division Bench (comprising Justice Ruma Pal and Justice Devinder
Kumar Jain) passed the interim orders restraining the defendant from using the
trade mark Ocuflox and also came to the conclusion that there cannot be two
medicinal preparations bearing the same name from different sources. One must
go. The judgment of the RFA (OS) No.90/2010 Page 36 of 52 Division Bench was
challenged by the defendant in the Supreme Court, who after hearing both the
parties dismissed the appeal by following the principles of Cadila's case. It
was observed that Cadila case holds that exacting judicial scrutiny is
required when a court is dealing with medicinal products.
Subsequently, to Milment Oftho (supra) case, the Supreme Court in the decision
reported as 2007 (35) PTC 1 (SC), Dabur Vs. Heinz Italia, held that two
trademarks Glucose-D and Glucon-D containing Glucose power are phonetically
similar. The learned Single Judge of the Punjab and Haryana High Court had
held that word Glucose being generic of the contents, no monopoly can be
granted. The learned Single Judge of the High Court had refused to grant the
injunction in this case. When this case came to the Supreme Court, the Court
in fact reversed it and granted the injunction. The ratio of the Supreme Court
contained in para 11 reiterates Cadila Healthcare while granting the
injunction and it was held that both Glucon D and Glucose D are items
containing glucose which are phonetically so similar that it can easily
confuse a purchaser and small changes in the packaging is merely an attempt to
continue to mislead the purchasers and to make it more difficult for the owner
to protect their mark.
In the decision reported as 1960 SC 142, Corn Products Refining Co. v.
Shangrila Food Products Ltd., where two rival marks were Gluvita and
Glucovita, the Supreme Court discussed the issue of likelihood of confusion
and deception as well as similarity of the marks and trade connection between
the two different goods. The trade mark Glucovita was with reference to
Glucose was registered in favour of the owner of the trade mark. The other
side applied for registration of the trade mark Gluvita in respect of RFA (OS)
No.90/2010 Page 37 of 52 the biscuits manufactured by them. The argument of
the other side was that the mark was coined as biscuit contains glucose mixed
with vitamins. In para 17, the Apex Court held as under:
> ―17. We think that the view taken by Desai J., is right. It is well known
> that the question whether the two marks are likely to give rise to confusion
> or not is a question of first impression. It is for the court to decide that
> question. English cases proceeding on the English way of pronouncing an
> English word by Englishmen, which it may be stated is not always the same,
> may not be of much assistance in our country in deciding questions of
> phonetic similarity. It cannot be overlooked that the word is an English
> word which to the mass of the Indian people is a foreign word. It is well
> recognized that in deciding a question of similarity between two marks, the
> marks have to be considered as a whole. So considered, we are inclined to
> agree with Desai J. that the marks with which this case is concerned are
> similar. Apart from the syllable ‗co' in the appellant's mark, the two marks
> are identical. That syllable is not in our opinion such as would enable the
> buyers in our country to distinguish the one mark from the other.‖ In the
> recent decision of United Biotech (P) Ltd. vs. Orchid Chemical and
> Pharmaceuticals Ltd. (supra), decided by the Division Bench of this Court,
> who noticed various earlier cases including SBL, Astrozenca and Schering
> Corporation (Supra), where two rival trade marks were ORZID and FORZID and
> in both the marks part of the active ingredient CEFTAZIDINE was taken by
> both the parties, still the Division has held that two marks are deceptively
> similar.
42\. In the abovementioned cases, the Courts have not ignored the word which
was part of active ingredient. But in his judgment, learned Single Judge made
side by side comparison, i.e., letters for letters and numbers for RFA (OS)
No.90/2010 Page 38 of 52 numbers, the test of deceptive similarity laid down
by the Supreme Court was not correctly followed by not considering the
essential feature of the mark LIV part of registered trade mark Liv.52. In the
decision reported as AIR 1963 SC 449, Amritdhara Pharmacy vs. Satyadeo Gupta,
has laid down principles of comparison of marks. The relevant paras are as
under:
> ―7. As we said in Corn Products Refining v. Shangrila Food Products Ltd.,
> (1960) 1 SCR 968: (AIR 1960) SC
> 142) the question has to be approached from the point of view of a man of
> average intelligence and imperfect recollection. To such a man the overall
> structural and phonetic similarity of the two names ‗Amritdhara' and
> ‗Lakshmandhara' is, in our opinion, likely to deceive or cause confusion. We
> must consider the overall similarity of the two composite words ‗Amritdhara'
> and ‗Lakshmandhara'. We do not think that the learned Judges of the High
> Court were right in saying that no Indian would mistake one for the other.
> An unwary purchaser of average intelligence and imperfect recollection would
> not, as the High Court supposed, split the name into its component parts and
> consider the etymological meaning thereof or even consider meanings of the
> composite words as ‗current of nectar' or ‗current of Lakshman'. He would go
> more by the overall structural and phonetic similarity and the nature of the
> medicine he has previously purchased, or has been told about, or about which
> has otherwise learnt and which he wants to purchase.
> 8\. .........What we have to consider here is the overall similarity of the
> composite words, having regard to the circumstance that the goods bearing
> the two names are medicinal preparations of the same description. We are
> aware that the admission of a mark is not to be refused, because unusually
> stupid people, ―fools or idiots‖, may be deceived. A critical comparison of
> the two names may disclose some points of difference, but an unwary
> purchaser of average intelligence and imperfect recollection would be
> deceived by the overall similarity of RFA (OS) No.90/2010 Page 39 of 52 the
> two names having regard to the nature of the medicine he is looking for with
> a somewhat vague recollection that he had purchased a similar medicine on a
> previous occasion with a similar name. The trade mark is the whole thing -
> the whole word has to be considered. In the case of the application to
> register ‗Erectiks' (opposed by the proprietors of the trade mark ‗Erector')
> Farwell, J. said in William Bailey (Birmingham) Ltd.'s Application (1935) 52
> R.P.C. 137 :
> ―I do not think it is right to take a part of the word and compare it with a
> part of the other word; one word must be considered as a whole and compared
> with the other word as a whole. I think it is a dangerous method to adopt to
> divide the word up and seek to distinguish a portion of it from a portion of
> the other work‖.
43\. It is also fortified by the view taken by several courts in India
including Division Bench of Madras High Court and learned single judge Bombay
High Court in the decision reported as 2006 (33) PTC 492 (DB) (Mad), Apex
Laboratories Ltd. Vs. Zuventus Health Care Ltd, and 2008 (36) 478 (BOM), Wyeth
Holdings Corp. and Anr. vs. Burnet Pharmaceuticals Pvt Ltd, wherein the courts
have protected the mark ZINCOVIT against the mark ZINCONIA wherein the word
ZINCO is derived from the common denominator ZINC. Likewise, Bombay High Court
in the case of Wyeth (supra) proceeded to protect FOLVITE P against the FOLV D
wherein the word FOL is derived from folic acid. Even we apply the said rule
of splitting the mark by excluding ZINCO, then conclusion to be arrived would
be the same as arrived at by the Learned Single Judge which is difference
between ―NIC‖ and ―VIT‖ but actually that is not the approach for comparison
and no a priori assumption can be drawn about the generic component unless
material placed on record speaks in the same voice. Both, Bombay High Court
and Madras High Courts strictly followed the Supreme Court in the RFA (OS)
No.90/2010 Page 40 of 52 case of Cadila Healthcare Ltd. v. Cadila
pharmaceuticals Ltd. (supra). There exist many other examples of the same
which are evocative of the same proposition which is that the mere fact that
the word is derived from the name of the salt does not mean that it loose
protection for all times to come. This is more so especially in the light of
observation of the Supreme Court in Cadila(Supra) that the stringent measures
are required to be taken to avoid any likelihood of confusion and deceptive
especially in the case of medicines.
44\. The findings of the learned Single Judge on this aspect are not correct
and those are contrary to the judgments referred to above. As per settled law,
it is established principle that both marks are to be compared as a whole. Let
us examine the two cases decided by the Division Benches of this Court. In the
decision reported 2008 (38) PTC 49 (Del.) (DB), Pankaj Goel v. Dabur India
Ltd., two rival marks were HAJMOLA and SATMOLA. The appellant produced clear
evidence before Court that MOLA was being used by many manufacturers of
digestive product. Prefix portions of two marks were HAJ and SAT which are
apparently different. The Division Bench of this Court after following various
judgments of Supreme Court, which are referred by us, came to the conclusion
that two marks are deceptively similar as the rival marks are to be compared
as a whole and an injunction was issued. In case portion MOLA, which was
common to the trade, as per the case of the appellant was to be ignored, then
the question of similarity of two marks would not have arisen. Special Leave
Petition was filed in Supreme Court, the same was also dismissed.
In the decision reported as 2010 (44) PTC 293 (Del.) (DB), Kirorimal Kashram
Mktg. & Agencies Pvt. Ltd. vs. Shree Sita Chawal Udyog Mill RFA (OS)
No.90/2010 Page 41 of 52 Tolly Vill., where two rival trade marks of the
parties were ―Double Deer‖ and ―Golden Deer‖, the Division Bench of this Court
(Comprising Sanjay Kishan Kaul, J. and Valkmiki J. Mehta, J.) has passed the
interim order holding that copying of a prominent part of a trade mark of a
person is prohibited, more so, when the same is a registered trade mark.
Various judgments have been referred including 2009 (40) PTC 417 (Del.) (DB),
Amar Singh Chawal Wala vs. Shree Vardhan Rice and Genl. Mills, where two rival
trade marks were ―Lal Qilla‖ and ―Hara Qilla‖.
45\. The learned Single Judge has not considered the voluminous evidence
produced by the plaintiff, several orders obtained, notice issued and
undertaking obtained from the various parties using the LIV as prefix to their
respective trade marks. The evidence of PW-3 to PW-6 was completely ignored by
the learned Single Judge who had approved survey report of the mark LIV. The
plaintiff was able to adduce the evidence that it was a fit case of likelihood
of confusion and deception and the two marks are deceptively similar.
46\. It is well settled law that whether a mark is generic word or is a
publici-juris, it is a question of fact. If the word has attained
distinctiveness as mark of a particular party, the distinctiveness is entitled
to recognition unless distinctiveness is lost, it was entitled to recognition.
The loss of distinctiveness might also be due to a volume of common user,
which destroyed distinctiveness.
47\. In the decision reported as 41 L.J. (1872) Ch. 682, Ford vs. Foster, Lord
Justice Nullish held that:-
> ―There is no doubt, I think, that a word which was originally a trade mark
> to the exclusive use of which a RFA (OS) No.90/2010 Page 42 of 52 particular
> trader of his successors in trade, may have been entitled, may subsequently
> become publici juris .....I think that the test must be whether the use of
> it by other persons is still calculated to deceive the public, whether it
> may still have the effect of inducing the public to buy goods not made by
> the original owner of the trade mark as if they were his goods. If the mark
> has come to be so public and in such universal use that nobody can be
> deceived by it, and can be induced from the use of it to believe that he is
> buying the goods of the original trader, it appears to me, however, hard to
> some extent it may appear on the trader, yet practically, as the right to
> the trade mark is simply a right to prevent the trader from being cheated by
> other persons' goods being sold as his goods through the fraudulent use of
> his trade mark, the right to the trade mark must be gone.‖
48\. The plaintiff in the present case was able to prove that the Liv.52 is
still distinctive. The customers purchase the product of the plaintiff by
asking Liv.52 which is being used for the last more than 57 years. It has also
come in evidence that the mark LIV is the essential feature of the registered
trade mark Liv.52. On the other hand, the defendant was unable to prove that
it is a generic word and becomes common to the trade. It is also pertinent to
mention here that on one hand, the defendant's entire case is that mark ‗LIV'
is a generic word and is unprotectable in law, but on the other hand, the
defendant itself applied for registration of ‗LIV-T' in the Trademarks
Registry for getting the exclusive right before filing of the written
statement, however in written statement word LIV is a generic mark and has
become publici juris.
49\. Law of publici juris has been discussed in various cases and the Courts
have given their respective findings to the effect that a party who has taken
the defence of publici juris has to prove his case. The same has been dealt
with by the Supreme Court and various High Courts in the following RFA (OS)
No.90/2010 Page 43 of 52 cases:
> a) In Corn Products Refining Co. v. Shangrila Food Products Ltd., 1960 SC
> 142 it has been held as under:
> ―15. The series of marks containing the common element or elements therefore
> only assist the applicant when those marks are in extensive use in the
> market. The onus of proving such user is of course on the applicant, who
> wants to rely on those marks. Now in the present case the applicant, the
> respondent before us, led no evidence as to the user of marks with the
> common element. What had happened was that Deputy Registrar looked into his
> register and found there a large number of marks which had either 'Gluco' or
> 'Vita' as prefix or suffix in it. Now of course the presence of a mark in
> the register does not prove its user all. It is possible that the mark may
> have been registered but not used. It is not permissible to draw any
> inference as to their user from the presence of the marks on the register.
> If any authority on this question is considered necessary, reference may be
> made of Kerly p. 507 & Willesden Varnish Co. Ltd. v. Young & Marten Ltd.,
> (1922) 39 RPC 285 at p. 389. It also appears that the appellant itself
> stated in one of the affidavits used on its behalf that there were biscuits
> in the market bearing the marks ‗Glucose Biscuits', ‗Gluco biscuits' and
> ‗Glucoa Lactine biscuits'. But these marks do not help the respondent in the
> present case. They are ordinary dictionary words in which no one has any
> right. They are really not marks with a common element or elements. We,
> therefore, think that the learned appellate Judges were in error in deciding
> in favour of the respondent basing themselves on the series marks, having
> ‗Gluco' or ‗Vita' as a prefix or a suffix.
> b) The Supreme Court set aside the judgment of the Division Bench of this
> Court and restored the order of the Learned Single Judge. The Supreme Court
> dealt with the finding of the Division Bench that trademarks with the prefix
> or suffix 'Gluco' and 'Vita' were common features of the trade and could not
> be associated only with the appellant's product, and observed thus:
RFA (OS) No.90/2010 Page 44 of 52
> ―The second point on which the learned appellate Judges based themselves in
> arriving at the conclusion that there was no reasonable apprehension of
> confusion or deception was, as we have earlier stated, that there were
> various trademarks with a prefix or suffix 'Gluco'or 'Vita'and that made it
> impossible to say that the common features 'Glu' and 'Vita' were only
> associated with the appellant's products. This view was founded on a passage
> which the learned appellate Judges quoted from Kerly on Trade Marks, 7th
> Edn., p.624. That passage may be summarized thus: Where there are a "series
> of marks, registered or unregistered, having a common feature or a common
> syllable, if the marks in the series are owned by different persons, this
> tends to assist the applicant for a mark containing the common feature. This
> statement of the law in Kerly's book is based on In re: an Application by
> Beck, Koller and Co. (England) Ltd. (1947) 64 R.P. C. 76. It is clear
> however, from that case, as we shall presently show, that before the
> applicant can seek to derive assistance for the success of his application
> from the presence of a number of marks having one or more common features
> which occur in his mark also, he has to prove that these marks had acquired
> a reputation by user in the market.‖ (emphasis supplied)
> c) In Express Bottlers Services Pvt. Ltd. v. Pepsi Inc. and Ors., 1989 (9)
> PTC 14 it has been held as under.
> ―50. ....To establish the plea of common use, the use by other persons
> should be shown to be substantial. In the present case, there is no evidence
> regarding the extent of the trade carried on by the alleged infringers or
> their respective position in the trade. If the proprietor of the mark is
> expected to pursue each and every insignificant infringer to save his mark,
> the business will come to a standstill. Because there may be occasion when
> the malicious persons, just to harass the proprietor may use his mark by way
> of pinpricks.... The mere use of the name is irrelevant because a registered
> proprietor is not expected to go on filing suits or proceedings against
> infringers who are of no consequence... Mere delay in taking action against
> the infringers is not sufficient to hold that the registered proprietor has
> lost the RFA (OS) No.90/2010 Page 45 of 52 mark intentionally unless it is
> positively proved that delay was due to intentional abandonment of the right
> over the registered mark. This court is inclined to accept the submissions
> of the respondent No.1 on this point...The respondent No.1 did not lose its
> mark by not proceeding against insignificant infringers...‖
> d) Rolex Sa v. Alex Jewellery Pvt. Ltd. and Ors., 2009 (41) PTC 284 (Del).
―22. The next aspect to be considered is the effect/impact, if any, of a large
number of other persons using the word ROLEX as claimed by the defendant. At
this stage, this plea will be examined believing the same to be true. In my
view, the same would be immaterial. Firstly, nothing has been shown that any
of the said users has any significant presence. Secondly, it is now well
settled in Honda (supra) in turn relying upon Indian Shaving Products Ltd Vs
Gift Pack that merely because the plaintiff who is otherwise found entitled to
the interim injunction is shown to have not taken any step against other
infringers is no ground to deny relief to the plaintiff. It cannot also be
said that the plaintiff's trademark has lost its distinctiveness for the said
reason. The reply affidavit of the plaintiff lists the orders of the Trade
Mark Registry from 1964 to 2000, where plaintiff's mark has been protected
inter alia for reason of having great reputation. It also shows that the
plaintiff has been enforcing its rights. Though the list filed by defendant
No.1 in this regard is long but a perusal thereof shows a number of applicants
to have abandoned or withdrawn their applications. This is a vast country.
Mere long list of applicants/registrants of mark, without any extensive use of
the mark, cannot dent the distinctive character or repute of the mark.‖
Similar view was taken by this court in various cases reported in 2009 (41)
PTC 57, Novartis AG v. Crest Pharma Pvt. Ltd. and Anr., 93 (2001) DLT 406,
Bhagwan Dass Gupta v. Shri Shiv Shankar Tirath Yatra Company Pvt. Ltd., 1998
PTC 18, Indian Shaving Products Ltd. & Anr. v. Gift Pack & Anr., and 2008 (38)
PTC 49 (Del.) (DB) Pankaj Goel v. Dabur India Ltd.
RFA (OS) No.90/2010 Page 46 of 52
50\. It was held by the learned Single Judge while deciding issue No.12 in his
judgment that the mark LIV is non-generic component which is to be considered
as non-distinctive and weak component and it has to be ignored when the
comparison of the marks is to be taken as a whole and the defendant was able
to show the mark LIV is publici juris in view of many cartons, marks including
the photographs placed on record. The learned Single Judge has not considered
the fact that in the absence of any cancellation petition filed by the
defendant, the plea of generic word or publici juris was not available to the
defendant as the same was contrary to the statutory provision of exclusive use
conferred under Section 28 and right to relief arising for infringement
thereof conferred under Section 29 of the Trade and Merchandise Act, 1958.
51\. Learned Single Judge did not consider his finding arrived on issue No.8
where it was held that defendant's product Ayurvedic need not be sold only
through homeopathic outlets but also through chemist shop. It is a matter of
fact that the plaintiff's registration was granted in respect of medicinal
preparation which covers the products manufactured and sold by the defendant.
So, it is not right test that in case one product is Ayurvedic and another
Homeopathic if both are available in the chemist shop, there cannot be any
confusion and deception. Each is likely to be considered as variants of other
originating from the common source. The Delhi High Court in the decision
reported as AIR 1999 DEL 15, Charak Pharmaceuticals vs. Deep Pharma Ltd, held
as under :
> ―9. Submission advanced by Sh. S.K.Bansal appearing for the defendant was
> mainly two-fold. First, that the medicine manufactured by the defendant
> under the trade mark ULCEREX is allopathic while the plaintiff's preparation
> under the trade mark ALSAREX is RFA (OS) No.90/2010 Page 47 of 52 ayurvedic.
> Medicine of the defendant is schedule 'H' drug which can only be sold on
> Doctor's prescription by chemist(s) which is not the case in respect of the
> medicine of plaintiff. It is not in dispute that both the said medicines are
> meant for treatment of ulcer. Further, that the trade marks ALSAREX and
> ULCEREX are phonetically similar. It is not uncommon that both allopathic
> and ayurvedic medicines are available across the same counter in various
> shops of the chemists and even schedule drugs are sold by some chemists
> without prescription slips of the Physicians. Thus, an unwary customer who
> goes to purchase medicine can make mistake in purchasing the medicine of the
> defendant under the aforesaid trade mark as that of the plaintiff because of
> phonetical similarity between the said two trade marks. Therefore, the
> distinction pointed out by Sh. Bansal is of little help to the defendant.
> 10\. ........All medicines whether they may be allopathic, ayurvedic or
> homeopathic are goods of the same description under the Act.‖
52\. Though in the judgment a reference was made that no rectification
proceedings were initiated by the defendant, but still the validity of the
trade mark was considered by the learned Single Judge by following the
principles of the American jurisprudence based on Section 37 of The Lanham
(Trade Mark) Act of United States, which permits an infringement Court to go
into the entire issue of validity or invalidity thereof and even cancel an
invalid registration. A US Court, therefore, is entitled to limit the nature,
extent and scope of right of exclusive use that registration should confer
upon a registered proprietor whereas no such jurisdiction is conferred on
Civil Courts in India under the Indian Trade Marks law. On the contrary,
according to Section 32 of the Trade Marks Act permits very limited ground of
scrutiny of the validity of the trade marks which are beyond seven years old.
The said ground clearly limits the testing of validity on the ground of RFA
(OS) No.90/2010 Page 48 of 52 lack of distinctive character except by showing
that on the date of commencement of proceedings, the said mark lacked the
distinctive character. It is being used for the last 57 years. In the present
case, nothing has been shown on evidence by proving its plea has been raised
by the defendant while attempting to show genericness or the word LIV lacked
distinctive character. No challenge of such nature has either been made by the
defendant by filing of rectification proceedings in the prescribed manner
though undisputed fact is that Liver is the generic term and not LIV. We are
therefore unsure as to how within the bounds of Trade and Merchandise Marks
Act 1958, it is permissible to import the provisions of Lanham Act to test the
validity of the registration in generality when Indian Trade Marks Act is a
self-contained code and provides for the limited level of scrutiny of validity
under section 32. Therefore, the same principles are not applicable to the
facts of this case.
53\. We also do not agree with the learned Single Judge that the submission of
the counsel that the LIV may be allowed to use as a standalone mark would
militate against the submission that the mark has to be compared as whole. We
think that rather it supports the said submission. This is due to the reason
that if the presence of the LIV is considered for the purposes of deceptive
resemblance, the mere existence of 52 or T is held to be inconsequential for
the purposes of arriving at the finding as to infringement, the marks are
compared as whole for the purposes of infringement and the rule laid down by
the Apex Court in Corn Products (Supra) is respected.
54\. It is totally immaterial if the sales turn over of the plaintiff was
progressing almost every year after introduction of the trademark LIV-T by RFA
(OS) No.90/2010 Page 49 of 52 the defendant, therefore, the defendant has not
made any dent whatsoever in the market for Liv.52. There is no prohibition in
law if the product is introduced by the defendant in the market and the sale
of the plaintiff is increased year by year, the Court should not pass the
orders if the case of infringement of trade mark is made out. The statutory
provisions cannot become nullity if such test is applied. One prudent person
could also give the justification that in case the defendant's mark LIV-T was
not available in the market, the sales turn over would have been much more. In
commercial market due to increase of prices of the product and because of its
promotion, sale has to be increased in every case.
55\. The plaintiff in the present case was able to prove that the Liv.52 is
still distinctive. The customers purchase the product of the plaintiff by
asking Liv.52 which is being used for the last more than 57 years. It has also
come in evidence that the mark LIV is the essential feature of the registered
trade mark Liv.52. On the other hand, the defendant was unable to prove that
it is a generic word and becomes common to the trade. It is also pertinent to
mention here that on one hand, the defendant's entire case is that mark ‗LIV'
is a generic word and is unprotectable in law, but on the other hand, the
defendant itself applied for registration of ‗LIV-T' in the Trademarks
Registry for getting the exclusive right before filing of the written
statement, however in written statement word LIV is a generic mark and has
become publici juris. Therefore, the findings arrived at by the learned single
judge in relation to issue no. 12 are not correct and the same are set aside.
56\. As we have arrived at the finding that the LIV written in isolation is an
essential feature of the trade mark Liv.52 and also noticed the rules of RFA
(OS) No.90/2010 Page 50 of 52 comparison which is that the marks are to be
compared as whole. Therefore, the presence of the mark LIV which is an
essential feature of the mark Liv.52 shall be considered for the purposes of
comparison with that of LIV-T.
57\. Following the dictum of Cadila (supra) and tests laid down by the Supreme
Court from time to time and also the material available on record, it can be
said that for the purposes of comparison of the mark Liv.52 and LIV-T, the
word LIV represented in a particular form cannot be excluded for the purposes
of measuring the deceptive resemblance. This is more so when we have arrived
at the finding that there is no sufficient material showing the user of the
word LIV written in isolation which establishes the generic nature of the
component and there is no also non establishment of material facts leading up
to generic nature of the word.
58\. Once we arrive at the finding that the Liv.52 mark is conclusive in
registration without any challenge as per section 32, then the conclusion
would be that the use of the expression LIV in isolation is an infringement of
the prominent feature of the plaintiff's registered trade mark. As the
defendant is using the mark LIV in isolation, therefore, the defendant is not
entitled to use the same. However, we permit the defendant, if so advised,
that the defendant may use the mark containing the expression LIV not written
in isolation and is accompanied by suffixes, examples of which are given in
the written statement i.e. LIVOGEN, Livpar, Livosin, LIVAPLEX, LIVOFIT, LIVA,
LIVOL, LIVDRO, LIVAZOL, LIVERITE, LIVERJET, LIVERNUT, LIVERPOL, LIVUP. At this
stage, we wish to recall the submission of the Mr.Hemant Singh, learned
counsel that the plaintiff that the plaintiff has no objection if the
defendant may use the word LIV along RFA (OS) No.90/2010 Page 51 of 52 with
suffixes which may not be visually, phonetically or structurally similar to
the trade of the plaintiff.
59\. For the aforesaid reasons, we allow the appeal. The judgment and decree
dated 3rd June, 2010 is set aside. Suit of the plaintiff with regard to
infringement of trade mark is decreed. The defendant is restrained from using
the mark LIV as part of its trade mark LIV-T while dealing with the medicinal
preparations. Decree be drawn accordingly. Since the present litigation is
pending for the last more than 15 years and as of today the infringing mark is
being used by the defendant for the last 20 years, the defendant is granted
six months time to liquidate its pending stock.
60\. No order as to costs.
(MANMOHAN SINGH) JUDGE (PRADEEP NANDRAJOG) JUDGE NOVEMBER 9, 2012/jk/kk RFA
(OS) No.90/2010 Page 52 of 52
that the defendant may use the mark containing the expression LIV not written
in isolation and is accompanied by suffixes, examples of which are given in
the written statement i.e. LIVOGEN, Livpar, Livosin, LIVAPLEX, LIVOFIT, LIVA,
LIVOL, LIVDRO, LIVAZOL, LIVERITE, LIVERJET, LIVERNUT, LIVERPOL, LIVUP. At this
stage, we wish to recall the submission of the Mr.Hemant Singh, learned
counsel that the plaintiff that the plaintiff has no objection if the
defendant may use the word LIV along RFA (OS) No.90/2010 Page 51 of 52 with
suffixes which may not be visually, phonetically or structurally similar to
the trade of the plaintiff.
59\. For the aforesaid reasons, we allow the appeal. The judgment and decree
dated 3rd June, 2010 is set aside. Suit of the plaintiff with regard to
infringement of trade mark is decreed. The defendant is restrained from using
the mark LIV as part of its trade mark LIV-T while dealing with the medicinal
preparations. Decree be drawn accordingly. Since the present litigation is
pending for the last more than 15 years and as of today the infringing mark is
being used by the defendant for the last 20 years, the defendant is granted
    MANMOHAN SINGH, J.
1\. The above mentioned appeal has been filed by the appellant (hereinafter
referred to as plaintiff) against the judgment and decree dated 3rd June, 2010
passed by the learned Single Judge in CS(OS) No. 111/2006 (old Suit
No.1305/1996) whereby the suit against the respondent (hereinafter referred to
as defendant) for infringement of trade mark Liv.52 by use of trade mark LIV-T
by the defendant was dismissed and it was held that there is no case made out
of infringement of registered trade mark.
2\. The facts leading to filing of abovementioned appeal are that the RFA (OS)
No.90/2010 Page 1 of 52 plaintiff is the owner of the trademark ‗Liv.52'
registered under registration No.180564 in class 5 as of 10th July, 1957 in
respect of medicinal preparation for treatment of disorder of liver. The said
trade mark has been used since the year 1955. The case of the plaintiff is
that the use of the trade mark LIV-T by the defendant in relation to medicinal
preparation for curing liver disorder amounting to infringement of plaintiff's
trade mark Liv.52 as the essential and distinguishable feature LIV which is
distinctive and is used by the defendant. The trade mark LIV-T used by the
defendant is phonetically and structurally identical with or deceptively
similar to Liv.52 thus the same is in violation of statutory and exclusive
rights granted in favour of the appellant under Section 29(1) of the Trade and
that the defendant may use the mark containing the expression LIV not written
in isolation and is accompanied by suffixes, examples of which are given in
the written statement i.e. LIVOGEN, Livpar, Livosin, LIVAPLEX, LIVOFIT, LIVA,
LIVOL, LIVDRO, LIVAZOL, LIVERITE, LIVERJET, LIVERNUT, LIVERPOL, LIVUP. At this
stage, we wish to recall the submission of the Mr.Hemant Singh, learned
counsel that the plaintiff that the plaintiff has no objection if the
defendant may use the word LIV along RFA (OS) No.90/2010 Page 51 of 52 with
suffixes which may not be visually, phonetically or structurally similar to
the trade of the plaintiff.
59\. For the aforesaid reasons, we allow the appeal. The judgment and decree
dated 3rd June, 2010 is set aside. Suit of the plaintiff with regard to
infringement of trade mark is decreed. The defendant is restrained from using
the mark LIV as part of its trade mark LIV-T while dealing with the medicinal
preparations. Decree be drawn accordingly. Since the present litigation is
pending for the last more than 15 years and as of today the infringing mark is
being used by the defendant for the last 20 years, the defendant is granted
    MANMOHAN SINGH, J.
1\. The above mentioned appeal has been filed by the appellant (hereinafter
referred to as plaintiff) against the judgment and decree dated 3rd June, 2010
passed by the learned Single Judge in CS(OS) No. 111/2006 (old Suit
No.1305/1996) whereby the suit against the respondent (hereinafter referred to
as defendant) for infringement of trade mark Liv.52 by use of trade mark LIV-T
by the defendant was dismissed and it was held that there is no case made out
of infringement of registered trade mark.
2\. The facts leading to filing of abovementioned appeal are that the RFA (OS)
No.90/2010 Page 1 of 52 plaintiff is the owner of the trademark ‗Liv.52'
registered under registration No.180564 in class 5 as of 10th July, 1957 in
respect of medicinal preparation for treatment of disorder of liver. The said
trade mark has been used since the year 1955. The case of the plaintiff is
that the use of the trade mark LIV-T by the defendant in relation to medicinal
preparation for curing liver disorder amounting to infringement of plaintiff's
trade mark Liv.52 as the essential and distinguishable feature LIV which is
distinctive and is used by the defendant. The trade mark LIV-T used by the
defendant is phonetically and structurally identical with or deceptively
similar to Liv.52 thus the same is in violation of statutory and exclusive
rights granted in favour of the appellant under Section 29(1) of the Trade and
that the defendant may use the mark containing the expression LIV not written
in isolation and is accompanied by suffixes, examples of which are given in
the written statement i.e. LIVOGEN, Livpar, Livosin, LIVAPLEX, LIVOFIT, LIVA,
LIVOL, LIVDRO, LIVAZOL, LIVERITE, LIVERJET, LIVERNUT, LIVERPOL, LIVUP. At this
stage, we wish to recall the submission of the Mr.Hemant Singh, learned
counsel that the plaintiff that the plaintiff has no objection if the
defendant may use the word LIV along RFA (OS) No.90/2010 Page 51 of 52 with
suffixes which may not be visually, phonetically or structurally similar to
the trade of the plaintiff.
59\. For the aforesaid reasons, we allow the appeal. The judgment and decree
dated 3rd June, 2010 is set aside. Suit of the plaintiff with regard to
infringement of trade mark is decreed. The defendant is restrained from using
the mark LIV as part of its trade mark LIV-T while dealing with the medicinal
preparations. Decree be drawn accordingly. Since the present litigation is
pending for the last more than 15 years and as of today the infringing mark is
being used by the defendant for the last 20 years, the defendant is granted
    MANMOHAN SINGH, J.
1\. The above mentioned appeal has been filed by the appellant (hereinafter
referred to as plaintiff) against the judgment and decree dated 3rd June, 2010
passed by the learned Single Judge in CS(OS) No. 111/2006 (old Suit
No.1305/1996) whereby the suit against the respondent (hereinafter referred to
as defendant) for infringement of trade mark Liv.52 by use of trade mark LIV-T
by the defendant was dismissed and it was held that there is no case made out
of infringement of registered trade mark.
2\. The facts leading to filing of abovementioned appeal are that the RFA (OS)
No.90/2010 Page 1 of 52 plaintiff is the owner of the trademark ‗Liv.52'
registered under registration No.180564 in class 5 as of 10th July, 1957 in
respect of medicinal preparation for treatment of disorder of liver. The said
trade mark has been used since the year 1955. The case of the plaintiff is
that the use of the trade mark LIV-T by the defendant in relation to medicinal
preparation for curing liver disorder amounting to infringement of plaintiff's
trade mark Liv.52 as the essential and distinguishable feature LIV which is
distinctive and is used by the defendant. The trade mark LIV-T used by the
defendant is phonetically and structurally identical with or deceptively
similar to Liv.52 thus the same is in violation of statutory and exclusive
rights granted in favour of the appellant under Section 29(1) of the Trade and
Merchandise Marks Act, 1958.
3\. The case set up by the defendant is that the word ‗LIV' is generic and
common to the trade as the medicines in question manufactured and marketed by
both the parties are meant for treatment of liver. Two products of parties are
different products; one is an ayurvedic medicine and the other homeopathic
preparation. The ayurvedic proprietary medicine is not sold through
homeopathic outlets. Packaging and colour combination of two labels are
different so as all other features. The composition of two products is also
different. It is submitted that the organ liver in the pharmaceutical trade is
often abbreviated as LIV and is used as a first syllable of over 50
pharmaceutical companies, include trademarks such as LIV CARD, LIV- UP, LIV-
that the defendant may use the mark containing the expression LIV not written
in isolation and is accompanied by suffixes, examples of which are given in
the written statement i.e. LIVOGEN, Livpar, Livosin, LIVAPLEX, LIVOFIT, LIVA,
LIVOL, LIVDRO, LIVAZOL, LIVERITE, LIVERJET, LIVERNUT, LIVERPOL, LIVUP. At this
stage, we wish to recall the submission of the Mr.Hemant Singh, learned
counsel that the plaintiff that the plaintiff has no objection if the
defendant may use the word LIV along RFA (OS) No.90/2010 Page 51 of 52 with
suffixes which may not be visually, phonetically or structurally similar to
the trade of the plaintiff.
59\. For the aforesaid reasons, we allow the appeal. The judgment and decree
dated 3rd June, 2010 is set aside. Suit of the plaintiff with regard to
infringement of trade mark is decreed. The defendant is restrained from using
the mark LIV as part of its trade mark LIV-T while dealing with the medicinal
preparations. Decree be drawn accordingly. Since the present litigation is
pending for the last more than 15 years and as of today the infringing mark is
being used by the defendant for the last 20 years, the defendant is granted
    MANMOHAN SINGH, J.
1\. The above mentioned appeal has been filed by the appellant (hereinafter
referred to as plaintiff) against the judgment and decree dated 3rd June, 2010
passed by the learned Single Judge in CS(OS) No. 111/2006 (old Suit
No.1305/1996) whereby the suit against the respondent (hereinafter referred to
as defendant) for infringement of trade mark Liv.52 by use of trade mark LIV-T
by the defendant was dismissed and it was held that there is no case made out
of infringement of registered trade mark.
2\. The facts leading to filing of abovementioned appeal are that the RFA (OS)
No.90/2010 Page 1 of 52 plaintiff is the owner of the trademark ‗Liv.52'
registered under registration No.180564 in class 5 as of 10th July, 1957 in
respect of medicinal preparation for treatment of disorder of liver. The said
trade mark has been used since the year 1955. The case of the plaintiff is
that the use of the trade mark LIV-T by the defendant in relation to medicinal
preparation for curing liver disorder amounting to infringement of plaintiff's
trade mark Liv.52 as the essential and distinguishable feature LIV which is
distinctive and is used by the defendant. The trade mark LIV-T used by the
defendant is phonetically and structurally identical with or deceptively
similar to Liv.52 thus the same is in violation of statutory and exclusive
rights granted in favour of the appellant under Section 29(1) of the Trade and
Merchandise Marks Act, 1958.
3\. The case set up by the defendant is that the word ‗LIV' is generic and
common to the trade as the medicines in question manufactured and marketed by
both the parties are meant for treatment of liver. Two products of parties are
different products; one is an ayurvedic medicine and the other homeopathic
preparation. The ayurvedic proprietary medicine is not sold through
homeopathic outlets. Packaging and colour combination of two labels are
different so as all other features. The composition of two products is also
different. It is submitted that the organ liver in the pharmaceutical trade is
often abbreviated as LIV and is used as a first syllable of over 50
pharmaceutical companies, include trademarks such as LIV CARD, LIV- UP, LIV-
that the defendant may use the mark containing the expression LIV not written
in isolation and is accompanied by suffixes, examples of which are given in
the written statement i.e. LIVOGEN, Livpar, Livosin, LIVAPLEX, LIVOFIT, LIVA,
LIVOL, LIVDRO, LIVAZOL, LIVERITE, LIVERJET, LIVERNUT, LIVERPOL, LIVUP. At this
stage, we wish to recall the submission of the Mr.Hemant Singh, learned
counsel that the plaintiff that the plaintiff has no objection if the
defendant may use the word LIV along RFA (OS) No.90/2010 Page 51 of 52 with
suffixes which may not be visually, phonetically or structurally similar to
the trade of the plaintiff.
59\. For the aforesaid reasons, we allow the appeal. The judgment and decree
dated 3rd June, 2010 is set aside. Suit of the plaintiff with regard to
infringement of trade mark is decreed. The defendant is restrained from using
the mark LIV as part of its trade mark LIV-T while dealing with the medicinal
preparations. Decree be drawn accordingly. Since the present litigation is
pending for the last more than 15 years and as of today the infringing mark is
being used by the defendant for the last 20 years, the defendant is granted
