Central Administrative Tribunal - Delhi
Vijay Srivastava vs National Highway Authority Of ... on 5 February, 2014
     .Central Administrative Tribunal
    Principal Bench
    OA No.1567/2010
    Reserved on : 07.01.2014
                                                                             Pronounced on: 05.02.2014
    Honble Mr. Justice Syed Rafat Alam, Chairman
    Honble Dr. Birendra Kumar Sinha, Member (A)
    Vijay Srivastava
    General Manager (Technical)
    National Highway Authority of India
    A-7, VIP Estate
    Shankar Nagar
    Raipur (Chhattisgarh)						. Applicant.
    (By Advocate : Sh. K. K. Rai, Sr. Advocate with Sh. R. N. Singh and 
                           Ms. Sangita Rai)
    Versus
    1.	National Highway Authority of India
    Through its Chairman
decided as per the procedures. We conclude this issue by holding that there is
nothing wrong we have been able to find that the appointment of respondent
Nos.7 to 11 is wrong.
Issue No.8
31\. Coming to the last issue what weighs, in our consideration, even at the
cost of repetition is that the applicant has all along played it safe. He
accepted the punishment without questioning the same. He chooses to remain
silent till he was promoted and then raked up the issue which he could have
well done earlier. We also found no merit in the argument of double jeopardy
or restoration of two original place of cadre seniority in the arguments of
the applicant. Conversely falls that the seniority assigned to Respondent
Nos.2 to 6 has been done correctly. We also find that the arguments raised in
challenging the appointment of Respondent Nos. 7 to 11 do not hold much water
and fail to sustain by leaving open the question of seniority to be decided as
per rules.
32\. Therefore, we find that the OA is devoid of merit on the basis of the
    Through its Chairman
    G-5 & 6, Sector 10
    Dwarka
    New Delhi.
    2.	Shri  Lambodar Prasad Padhey 
    General Manager (T)
    National Highway Authority of India
    G-5 & 6, Sector 10
    Dwarka 
    New Delhi.
    3.	Shri Ashutosh Gautam
    General Manager (T)
    National Highway Authority of India 
    P.I.U. Lucknow
    1/73G, Vinnet Khand
    Gomti Nagar
    Lucknow (U.P.)
    4.	Shri Chander Kumar Sinha
    General Manager (T)
    National Highway Authority of India 
    P.I.U., B-1, Agam, Raw House 
    Opp. Sakar Apartment,
    Behind ICICI Bank,
    City Light, Surat
    Gujarat.
    5.	Shri Ravi Bhushan Sinha 
    General Manger (T)
    National Highway Authority of India
    G-5 & 6, Sector 10
    Dwarka, New Delhi.
    6.	Shri Avadhesh Kumar Singh
    General Manager (T)
    National Highway Authority of India 
    G-5 & 6, Sector 10
    Dwarka
    New Delhi.
    7.	Lt. Col Kushwant Singh
    General Manager (T)
    National Highway Authority of India
    PIU, Gayatri Complex
    Opp. Gayatri Temple , NH-14
    Palanpur, Gujarat.
    8.	Shri. P.K. Das
    General Manager (T)
    National Highway Authority of India 
    G-5 & 6, Sector 10
    Dwaraka, New Delhi,
    9.	Shri Gautam Das
    General Manger (T)
    National Highway Authority of India 
    G-5 & 6, Sector 10
    Dwarka
    New Delhi.
    10.	Col. M.K. Jain
    General Manager (T)
    National Highway Authority of India 
    PIU, House No.5
    Sector 7, Trikuta nagar
    Jammu (J&K)
    11.	Lt. Col. Chandan Vatsa
    General Manager (T)
    National Highway Authority of India
    G-5 & 6, Sector 10
    Dwarka 
    New Delhi.
    12.	Shri  Vishal Gupta 
    General Manager (T)
    National Highway Authority of India
    G-5 &6, Sector 10
    Dwarka
    New Delhi
    13.	Col. Rajat Rastogi 
    General Manager (T)
    National Highway Authority of India
    CMI, 17-L,  Model Town
    Ambala City.
    Haryana.
    14.	Shri A.K. Mishra
    General Manager (T)
    National Highway Authority of India
    G-5 & 6, Sector 10
    Dwarka 
    New Delhi.
    15.	Lt. Col. P.K. Lohumi
    General manger (T)
    National Highway Authority of India
    Village Rithola Jn. At KM 213 of NH-76
    Chittorgarh
    Rajasthan.
    16.	Mr. M.K. Jain
    General Manager (T)
    National Highway Authority of India
    PIU,  House No.5, Lane 4
    Sector 4, Teg Bahadur Road
    Dehradun
    Uttrakhand.
    17.	Mr. M. Chandrashekhar
    General manager (T)
    National Highway Authority of India 
    G-5 & 6, Sector 10 
    Dwarka
    New Delhi.								. Respondents.
    (By Advocate : Sh. Jos Chiramel, Ms. Amrita Maharana with Mr. Anant 
        Raghuvanshi counsel for Respondent No.1.
        Sh. A. K. Behera counsel for Respondent Nos.2,3,4,12 & 16.
        Ms. Jyoti Singh, Sr. Advocate with Sh. Rajiv Manglik counsel
        for Respondent Nos.7, 10, 11, 13 and 14).
    : O R D E R :
Dr. B. K. Sinha, Member (A) :
This Application under Section 19 of the Administrative Tribunals Act, 1985 is
preferred against the Office Order dated 5.06.2009, promoting the applicant to
the post of General Manager (Technical) in the pay scale of
Rs.14,300-400-18,300 (Pre-revised) with effect from 01.05.2008, the Draft
Seniority List Circular placing the applicant at Sl. No.13 above one Shri A.
K. Mishra but below 12 other officers and OM dated 9.10.2009 containing a
Draft Seniority List Circular of GM Technicals as on 7.10.2009 placing the
applicant at Sl. No.1 above one Sh. Lambodar Prasad Padhy.
2\. The case of the applicant in brief is that he was appointed as Manager
(Finance and Accounts) with the respondents, that being the National Highways
Authority of India under the due process of open source recruitment in August,
1998. The applicant was promoted as Deputy General Manager in May, 2002 and
was posted at Jalandhar where he faced departmental enquiry under Regulation
No.17 of the National Highways Authority of India (Conduct, Discipline and
Appeal) Regulation 1997, as an outcome of which he was awarded penalty of
withholding of one increment of his pay for a period of two years without
cumulative effect vide order dated 8.03.2006 (Annexure A-2). The applicant
unsuccessfully contested his order of punishment before the Appellate
Authority his appeal dismissed vide order dated 15.05.2007 (Annexure A-6). On
7.10.2009, the respondent organization circulated a draft seniority list
wherein S/shri Ashutosh Gutam, Awadhesh Kumar Singh, Ravi Bhushan Singh,
Chandan Kumar Sinha, Lambodar Prasad Padhy figured as senior to the applicant
whereas in 2002 promotion list they had been junior to him.
3\. In the meantime, one Shri Rajesh Gupta challenged the meeting of the DPC
held in the year 2004, 2005 & 2006 wherein promotion of the applicant in OA
No.572/2008 had been overlooked. A Division Bench of this Tribunal considered
the matter and arrived at a finding dated 29.09.2008 that the proceedings of
the selection committee dated 3.09.2004, 21.11.2006 and 8.06.2007 suffered
several infirmities and irregularities, especially with regard to the
Constitution of the Committees as well as on account of violation of the
statutory Regulations of 1996 with regard to requirements of 12 years
experience related to major infrastructural projects contained in the
Regulations. The Tribunal set aside the recommendations of the Selection
Committees as the same had been rendered void ab initio including the
consequences flowing therefrom. The respondents organization against the
Tribunals order in OA No.572/2008 filed a writ application vide WP (C) No.617
of 2009 wherein the order of the Tribunal dated 29.09.2008 was upheld. The
case of the applicant in nut shell is that he was considered by the Selection
Committee in its meeting on 1.02.2008, wherein he figured at Sl. No.32 and was
graded C pending vigilance clearance. The applicant was finally promoted
w.e.f. 1.05.2008. He submitted several representations seeking inter alia
promotion w.e.f. March 2006 and parity with the case of Rajesh Gupta-applicant
in OA No.572/2008 who had been given promotion to the post of Deputy General
Manager (Finance) w.e.f. the year 2004 along with one Shri P. K. Aggarwal,
when they became eligible for promotion irrespective of the
recommendations/result of the selection committee at that point of time. Such
representations were submitted vide his communications dated 2.2.2008,
10.03.2008, 14.05.2008, 26.10.2009, 22.01.2010 and 07.05.2010. The applicant
has also questioned the appointment of one Pravin Kumar Das for ad hoc
appointment on absorption basis vide order dated 26.02.2010. The applicant
submitted that he has been illegally not permitted to appear before the
Selection Committee meeting held on 9.03.2006, 20.11.2006, 12.07.2007 and
01.02.2008, whereas as per NHAI (Conduct, Discipline and Appeal) Regulations
1997, his punishment has been given taken effect to.
4\. The applicant has urged the following grounds for his appeal.
4.1 The first ground that has been urged by the applicant is that the order of
the Tribunal in OA No.572/2008 as upheld by the Honble High Court vide its
judgment dated 3.07.2009 wherein it has been held that the selection committee
had been illegally constituted and fresh committee should be constituted in
accordance with law and fresh appointments be made. The contention of the
applicant is that this direction has been implemented only qua the posts
mentioned in the order and the other selection committees during the same
period were allowed to stand which had been similarly illegally constituted
but which did not figure in the OA.
4.2 In the second place, the applicant has questioned the appointments of
Respondent Nos. 7 to 11 as having been made in violation of the law and
contrary to the provisions of the NHAI (Conduct, Discipline and Appeal)
Regulations 1997. Regulation 12 (2) of which provided for two channels of
appointment viz. by promotion or by deputation. The Honble High Court has
held in its order dated 3.07.2009 that the persons who were appointed vide
order dated 26.02.2010 which includes the requirement of having a separate
promotion channel, was not found to have been followed in that particular
case.
4.3 The third ground adopted by the applicant is that Regulation 13 provides
for two kinds of penalties- minor and major, wherein, (f) withholding of
increment or promotion has also been provided. The applicant argues that the
respondents have imposed on him a minor penalty of withholding of one
increment without cumulative effect. However, the action of the respondents in
denying promotion to him by not allowing him to appear before the Selection
Committee amounts inflicting of two punishments in terms of the aforecited
clause. Since the applicant has already undergone one punishment of
withholding of one increment, the second order of punishment could not have
been inflicted upon him.
4.4 In the 4th place, the applicant has challenged the corrigendum to the
order dated 7.10.2009 circulating a draft seniority list for various posts
including that of General Manager (Tech.) whereby Respondent Nos.6 to 11,
junior to him, have been placed over his head. The applicant has represented
against this draft seniority list on 26.10.2009 without having evoked any
reply to the same.
5\. On the basis of the above arguments, the applicant has sought the
following reliefs:-
(a) hold that the Applicant having been inflicted the penalty of withholding
of one increment vide order dated 8.3.2006 cannot be inflicted with the second
penalty for the same offence of withholding of promotion, especially in view
of Regulation 13 of the National Highway Authority of India (Conduct,
Discipline and Appeal) Regulations, 1997;
(b) the order dated 5th June, 2009, be modified to give promotion to the
Applicant with effect from June 2006 (and not 1.5.2008) when his juniors were
promoted, since the Applicant who was fully qualified but was not appointed
only because of the penalty of withholding of one increment for two years;
(c) set aside the provisional seniority list dated 7.10.2009 and corrigendum
dated 9.10.2009 and direct preparation of a fresh seniority list in accordance
with law and in terms of the directions of this Honble Tribunal;
(d) set aside appointments of Respondent Nos. 12 to 17 made in the years 2005,
2006 and 2007 in view of the Selection Committees not having been properly
constituted in accordance with Regulation 11 (3) of the National Highway
Authority of India (Regulation, Seniority and Promotion) Regulations, 1996 and
because the appointed persons did not have the desired experience as
stipulated under the Schedule to the aforesaid Regulations for the post of
General Manager (Technical), in view of the judgment of this Hoble Tribunal
dated July 23, 2009 in OA No.572 of 2008 and as upheld by the Honble High
Court vide order dated 3.7.2009 in Civil Write Petition No. 617 of 2009;
(e) direct that fresh selection process be initiated for appointments to the
post of General Manager (Technical) for the years 2005, 2006 and 2007 after
constituting Section Committees in accordance with law and after giving due
regard to experience etc. as stipulated under the Regulations;
(f) hold that Respondent Nos. 7 to 11, namely, Lt. Col Kushwant Singh, Shri
P.K. Das, Shri Gautam Das, Col. M.K. Jain and Lt. Col. Chandan Vatsa
respectively has been illegally appointed vide order dated 26.2.2010 and in
any event they can be given seniority only from the date of their appointment
on 26.2.2010 and not from the date of their appointment on deputation basis
illegally through illegal Selection Committees in earlier years; and
(g) any other relief which this Honble Tribunal thanks just and appropriate
in the facts and circumstances of the case; and
(h) costs of the present application may be awarded to the applicant;
6\. The respondents have filed their counter affidavit in different
lots/groups. The respondent No.1 in his counter affidavit has strongly
resisted the OA on the following grounds:-
6.1 In the first instance, the Respondent No.1 has refuted the argument of
multiple punishment or double jeopardy advanced by the applicant. He submits
that though on a plain reading of Regulation 13 of NHAI (Conduct, Discipline &
Appeal) Regulations, 1997, it does appear on face of it that there is merit in
the argument of the applicant, these regulations were subsequently amended in
the year 1997 and the Residuary maters continue to rest with the CCS (CCA)
Rules, 1965. However, there is a clear distinction between withholding of
promotion and postponement of promotion/keeping the promotion in abeyance as
provided in DOP&T OM dated 15.05.1971.
6.2 The respondent No.1 has also strongly rebutted the contention of the
applicant regarding improper constitution of the selection committee on the
ground that there is no post of Assistant Director General in the Ministry of
Road Transport at any given time and the Chief Engineer who was nominated by
the Director General in the selection committee was senior to the supposed
Assistant Director General. Therefore, no parity could be drawn with the case
of Rajesh Gutpa as the later along with one Sh. P. K. Aggarwal was given
promotion as consequence of recommendations of the review DPC. Moreover, the
Selection Committee by which the applicant had been appointed was also similar
in constitution which he seeks to challenge. The appointment of the applicant
himself or his promotion as Deputy General Manager (Technical) would be
rendered void ab initio and non est by an extension of the same logic. The
answering respondent has also referred to para 27 of the order of judgment of
Honble High Court dated 3.07.2009, wherein, the Honble High Court has agreed
with the argument advanced that the impugned order would set aside a large
number of appointments in terrorem and has restricted the effect of the order
to the facts of this case alone. The Learned counsel for the respondent No.1
has also submitted that the Application is barred by the law of limitation as
the applicant seeks to challenge the proceedings of the selection committee
held in 2005, 2006 & 2007, even considering the fact that the respondent
organization NHAI was inducted within the ambits of Section 14 of the
Administrative Tribunals Act, 1985, the Application should have been filed
well within 2009. The OA is also not accompanied by any Application for
condonation of delay.
6.3 Coming to the issue of seniority, the respondent No.1 submits that since
the applicant was not entitled to be promoted in the years 2005, 2006 & 2007
he has been rightly promoted w.e.f. May 1st, 2008. In the meantime, the
respondents though admittedly junior in joining have become promoted as they
suffered no such disabilities and are senior to him in the rank of General
Manager. Further there was no illegality or irregularity in the appointment of
Respondent Nos.13 to 17 as they had been inducted under the existing rules on
deputation on ad hoc basis. Subsequently, in order to build up their own cadre
an opportunity was given to the respondents and their services were absorbed
in the host organization. As per NHAI Notification dated 25.11.2009, the
process of recruitment for increasing permanent cadre strengths is to be in
order of promotion, absorption and lateral entry i.e. if eligible candidates
are not available for promotion, absorption have to be undertaken and once the
eligible candidates for absorption have exhausted, lateral entry would also
resorted to. The answering respondent had vehemently denied that the decision
of the selection committee dated 25.02.2010 and consequent ad hoc appointments
of Respondent No. 7 to 11 vide order dated 26.02.2010 is illegal or there is
any irregularity.
6.4 The respondent No.1 has also submitted that the relief claimed by the
applicant is in violation of Rule 10 of the CAT (Procedure) Rules, 1987, as
per which, there could be only one principal relief and other items of relief
should flow from them. Instead, the applicant has sought unrelated items of
relief and has selectively directed his attack. For instance, in respect of
relief (b), the applicant has selectively assailed the proceedings of the
selection committee dated 5.06.2009 whereby he himself had been promoted. In
respect of respondents Nos. 7 to 11 alone, he selectively attack the
recommendations of the selection committee dated 1.02.2008.
6.5 Respondent Nos.7, 10, 11 & 13 have filed their counter affidavit
separately wherein they have fully supported the counter affidavit filed by
Respondent No.1. Additionally, it has been submitted that the Application is
premature as the applicant is challenging the seniority of Respondent Nos.7 to
11 and 12 to 17 as General Manager (Tech) whereas their position above the
applicant is concerned, the impugned seniority list dated 7.10.2009 continues
to be in a draft stage. Moreover, the applicant has challenged the
appointments made in the year 2005 whereas he himself was not eligible for
appointment in the year 2005 and thus he becomes a 3rd party and, therefore,
he has no right to challenge the same. It has also been submitted that the
respondent Nos.7 to 11 have nothing to do with the punishment meted out to the
applicant. They also resisted the averment made by the applicant that
different yardsticks have been adopted for giving promotion. The answering
respondents were appointed on ad hoc basis on the basis of ACRs whereas in the
case of promotion the marks for interview were awarded. The applicant was
appointed as GM (Tech) on promotion from DGM (Tech) whereas the respondent
Nos.7 to 11 were working as GM (Tech) on deputation and were absorbed as GM
(Tech) in terms of Regulation 13 by the Selection Committee on the basis of
their performance of two years which could have only be assessed by the ACRs
earned during this period. The respondents have further questioned the
averments of the applicant that he was unaware of the proceedings and the same
were obtained through the RTI Application as the details of the Application
have not been available at anywhere. The answering respondents have admitted
that the appointments made in the year 2005, 2006 & 2007 cannot be termed as
illegal appointment but at most could have been termed as irregular
appointment and can be regularized in light of the judgment given by the
Honble Supreme Court in Municipal Corporation, Jabalpur vs. Om Prakash Dubey
AIR 2007 SC 893, wherein in para 11, their Lordships have held as under:-
11. The question which, thus, arises for consideration, would be: Is there
any distinction between irregular appointment and illegal appointment? The
distinction between the two terms is apparent. In the event the appointment is
made in total disregard of the constitutional scheme as also the recruitment
rules framed by the employer, which is State within the meaning of Article 12
of the Constitution of India, the recruitment would be an illegal one; whereas
there may be cases where, although, substantial compliance of the
constitutional scheme as also the rules have been made, the appointment may be
irregular in the sense that some provisions of the rules might not have been
strictly adhered to. 6.6. The Respondent No.14 has filed a separate counter
affidavit fully supporting the arguments of the Respondent No.1 and Respondent
Nos.7, 10, 11 & 13 in respect of plural remedy, limitation, the OA being
premature, the applicant being 3rd party and in respect of the arguments on
merit. He further relied upon the case of Madan Lal vs. State of J&K AIR 1995
SC 1088 and that of K. A. Nagamani vs. Indian Airlines & Ors. AIR 2009 SC 3240
that having been participated in the selection process the applicant now
cannot turn about and challenge the same as being illegal.
6.7. Another counter reply has been filed on behalf of Respondent No.2
Lambodar Prasad Padhey and Respondent No.12 Vishal Gupta, wherein, they have
supported the counter reply filed by other respondents in respect of
limitation, the OA being premature, multiple relief and on merit. The
answering respondents further submit that admittedly the names of Respondent
Nos.2 & 6 are recommended in order of merit in the minutes of the Selection
Committee dated 1.02.2008 and the name of the applicant was shown with lower
marks than the Respondent Nos.2 to 5 with further remark that the vigilance
clearance is pending. The applicant has not disputed anywhere that the
Respondent Nos.2 to 5 have secured higher marks than him whereas the applicant
has secured the same marks as that of Respondent No.6. However, Respondent
No.6 was placed above the applicant as he was clear from the vigilance angle.
As per Rule 15 (2) of NHAI (Recruitment, Seniority and Promotion) Regulations
1996 seniority is to be fixed in the order as recommended by the Selection
Committee. The Answering Respondent Nos.2 & 12 have further submitted that in
the draft seniority list circulated vide letter dated 7.10.2009, Respondent
No.12 is appearing at Sl. No.7 whereas the applicant appears at Sl. No.13.
There was no selection for the permanent cadre between 7.07.2005 and
18.02.2008 for the post of GM(Tech) except that of Respondent No.12 who was
selected on 26.11.2006. The applicant was selected as GM (Techl) w.e.f.
1.05.2008 along with the next batch of Respondent No.12 who was promoted on
18.02.2008. There was a delay of 73 days (18.02.2008 to 1.05.2008) in
promotion of the applicant due to ongoing minor penalty on the applicant in a
disciplinary case. As all the promotions are subject to vigilance angle, the
applicant was promoted as soon as he was given vigilance clearance and,
therefore, there is no infirmity in the order.
6.8 The answering respondents 2 & 12 further submit that Respondent No.12 was
selected by Selection Committee meeting held on 20.11.2006 in which the
applicant also appeared but was not selected as he could not secure above the
cut off marks. The answering respondents have also submitted a Chart to denote
the merit of the applicant and that of Respondent Nos.2,3,4 & 5 who have
scored higher marks than the applicant. He has further submitted that the
applicant was not a candidate in the year 2005 selection and hence he has no
locus standi.
7\. The applicant has filed his rejoinder separately to the counter affidavits
to the reply of Respondent No.1, Respondent Nos.7, 10, 11 & 13 and Respondent
Nos.2 & 12\. The applicant submits that the Respondent No.1 has admitted in
his counter affidavit that the applicant is correct in his averment that he
cannot be given more than one minor penalty for the same misconduct which
amounts to double jeopardy. His principal argument is that his promotion
cannot be given effect to during the pendency of the punishment but once it
has been served out there is nothing to stipulate that the employee cannot be
given the promotion from the date it is due. The penalty was imposed on
8.03.2006 and expired on 8.03.2008. The order of promotion promoting the
applicant to the post of General Manager was issued on 5.06.2009. All that the
respondents organization could have done was to held in abeyance the promotion
of the applicant from the year 2006 when the juniors to the applicant were
given promotion. The applicant should be restored to his original place of
seniority once the effect of the date of promotion is exhausted. The applicant
has further sought to emphasie that the selection committee met on 28.05.2005,
9.03.2006, 20.11.2006 and 12.07.2007 were contrary to Regulation 11 (3) of the
NHAI (Recruitment, Seniority and Promotion) Regulation, 1996 and the Tribunal
had found it so vide its order dated 29.09.2008. The same was challenged by
the Respondent No.1 before the Honble High Court, wherein the writ petition
was dismissed with an observation that NHAI had to put its house in order by
following the procedure as laid down in the Regulations or else it is supposed
to take remedial measures to cater to the ground realities.
8\. On the ground of limitation, the applicant has submitted that since the
constitution of the Committee was itself contrary to the regulations it could
be pursued at any point of time. The fact that the said committees were
illegally constituted was known only after the judgment of the Honble High
Court dated 3.07.2009 and as the same had never been disclosed by the official
respondents, nor could it be ascertained even during the interview that who
were the persons conducting the interview, hence, there is delay on part of
the respondents.
9\. The applicant has further submitted in his rejoinder application that no
legal precedent could be drawn from the case of Rajesh Gupta vs. NHAI & Ors.
[OA No.572/2008 decided on 29.09.2008] as he was not a party to the proceeding
and the effect of the judgment had been exclusively confined, however, a
judgment of the Honble High Court is equally binding upon the parties and
that cannot be denied. On the issue of illegality of the appointments of
Respondent Nos.7 to 11, the applicant reiterates that a bare perusal of the
Regulation 13 of the NHAI (Conduct, Discipline and Appeal) Regulations, 1997
makes it clear that there is no provision for any ad hoc appointment in the
said Regulation. Sub-clause (4) of Regulation 13 clearly provides the process
of recruitment for increasing the permanent cadre strength to be in order of
promotion, absorption and lateral entry. Before increasing the permanent cadre
strength, the strength of the feeder cadre will have to be enhanced so that
the career progression opportunities are not blocked for promotion cadres and
that it does not lead to structural imbalance. The applicant alleges that the
Respondent No.1 has himself recorded all rules for favouring the Respondent
Nos.7 to 11, some of whom were about to retire. The applicant has further
alleged that Respondent No.1 had arbitrarily introduced marks for promotion of
internal candidate while the respondents were illegally absorbed on the basis
of ACRs so as to able to interchange their seniority. Such practice is
contrary to the settled position in Government of India where only benchmark
is to be attained. In the meeting dated 12.07.2007, only 5 candidates all
belonging to the army background have been selected to the post of General
Manager by giving them higher marks whereas other eligible candidates working
on regular basis for the last several years with technical experience and
expertise were excluded from the selection by giving lower marks.
10\. In his rejoinder to the counter affidavit of Respondent Nos.7, 10, 11 &
13, the applicant has paraphrased his reply on the preliminary objections and
has more or less restated the averments made in his earlier rejoinder. The
rejoinder to the reply filed on behalf of Respondent No.14 is again a
reiteration of his rejoinder to the counter affidavit of Respondent No.2 &
12\.
11\. We have heard the learned counsel appearing for all the parties. During
the course of argument, learned counsel for the applicant withdrew his claim
in respect of the Selection Committee meeting held in the year 2005. Hence, it
needs not to be considered. The arguments of the parties by and large followed
the pleadings and their written submissions, which we have carefully
considered. On the basis thereof, we find that the outcome of the instant case
is mainly related to a resolution of some legal issues. The facts of the case
being admitted by both the parties, the basic legal issues are as follows:-
1\. Whether the OA is barred by law of limitation?
2\. Whether the OA is hit by Rule 10 of the CAT (Procedure) Rules, 1987?
3\. Whether the OA is premature?
4\. Whether the case of the applicant is covered by the doctrine of double
jeopardy inasmuch as he could have been awarded only one punishment?
5\. Whether the Selection Committee in the years 2006 & 2007 was illegally
constituted and that they are covered by the decision in OA No.572/2008?
6\. Whether the seniority assigned to the Respondent Nos.2 to 6 over the
applicant has been incorrectly done and that the applicant should have been
restored to his original appointment and seniority on his promotion?
7\. Whether the ad hoc promotion and absorption of Respondent Nos. 7 to 11 has
been incorrectly given against the provisions of NHAI Recruitment, Appointment
and Absorption Regulations?
8\. What relief, if any, could be given to the applicant?
Issue No.1
12\. Insofar as the first issue is concerned, admittedly it is a fact that the
cause of action of the applicant had arisen in respect of the proceedings of
the selection committees held in the years 2005, 2006 & 2007\. Though the
organization was brought within the ambits of this Tribunal only on 01.08.2007
under Section 14 (2) of the Administrative Tribunals Act, 1985, there were
other courses open to the applicant to have agitated his grievances. He could
have come to this Tribunal after 2007. Against any of these years, he could
have been entertained on the same lines as in the case of Rajesh Gupta
(supra). Instead, the applicant waited till he got his promotion vide the
impugned order dated 5.06.2009 w.e.f. 1.05.2008. It is then that he has come
to this Tribunal. The argument advanced by the respondents that he has been a
fence sitter who has jumped into the fray after the judgment has been
delivered by the Honble High Court in WP (C) No.617/2009 appears to hold some
substance. It is also to be taken into account that the applicant had accepted
his promotion to GM (Technical) w.e.f. 1.05.2008 without any protest.
Thereafter, he has acquiesced to this promotion. On the other hand, the
applicant in his rejoinder to the counter of Respondent Nos.2 & 12 has
submitted that he came to know that the committees had been illegally
constituted only after the order of the Tribunal in OA No.572/2008 and the
judgment of the Delhi High Court in WP (C) No.617/2009. The constitution of
the committees had never been disclosed earlier, not even when the persons
were appearing before the same interview. Accordingly, there was no delay in
filing the review application and has requested that if there be any delay the
same should be condoned. What weighs to our consideration here is that
technically it could be construed that there is limitation for the simple
reason that the applicant had the remedy even if the constitution of the
committee had not been disclosed to him. However, one takes this argument with
a pinch of salt as under such circumstances, as has been mentioned, the
constitution of the committee can never remain a closely guarded secret,
particularly to an internal candidate. Having said this, there is also a
contrary side to it. What weighs to our consideration is that the issue of
limitation should have been raised and decided at the first instance. The
points that have been agitated by the applicant are worthy and have a delay of
implication for the future. Having taken note of the fact that the pleadings
having been completed and the arguments advanced and heard on behalf of the
parties it appears too late in the day to dismiss the OA solely on the ground
of limitation. We further take note of the fact that the issues emerging in
the instant case are substantive by nature and need to be decided squarely and
comprehensively. We would much like to decide the issue on its merit rather on
limitation.
13\. In the case of Chairman, Railway Board, Government of India vs. P.
Chandrasekaran S/o. C. Ponnusamy and The Registrar, Central Administrative
Tribunal, decided on 17.01.2006 vide WP No.29444/2003 where the right of the
applicant to receive the protection had been allowed by the Tribunal even
beyond the period of limitation. The Honble Supreme Court has held in para 20
of the judgment as under:-
20. Law is well settled that the principle of limitation bars the remedy but
does not extinguish the right, save and except Section 27 of the Limitation
Act, by virtue of which not only the remedy is barred but a right accrues in
favour of a person who has prescribed his right over immovable property by the
principle of adverse possession. The said principle obviously has no
application in the present case. In the present case, even though the right of
the employee to receive increased salary on the basis of pay protection became
barred by limitation, the inherent right was not extinguished. Obviously he
cannot claim any arrears of salary before July, 1996, when he retired, as all
those claims were barred by limitation under the Limitation Act as well as
under Section 21 of the Administrative Tribunals Act. However, his right
regarding pension on the basis of protection of pay scale remained as such.
The right to claim pension on the basis of such pay protection at least with
effect from 19.10.2001 cannot be said to be barred by limitation. Hence, we
accept the argument. Though the Application is barred by limitation, we accept
the prayer of the applicant for condonation having come so far in order to
decide the issues on their substantive merit. This First issue is accordingly
answered in favour of the applicant.
Issue No.2
14\. Coming to the second issue Rule 10 of the CAT (Procedure) Rules, 1987
provides as under:-
10. Plural remedies.- An application shall be based upon a single cause of
action and may seek one or more reliefs provided that they are consequential
to one another. Looking to the relief column as provided in the OA, the first
relief relates to the issue of double jeopardy, the second to his promotion at
par with his juniors, third relates to fresh provision of provisional
seniority list and the fourth regarding declaration to the setting aside of
the appointment of Respondent Nos.12 to 17 in view of the selection committee
having not been properly constituted; the fifth relief is in respect of the
process being initiated for constituting a fresh selection committee and the
sixth relief relates to hold the Respondent Nos.7 to 11 appointed by an
illegally constituted selection committee. It appears from a bare reading of
the relief asked for that the applicant has entered into three sets of
reliefs; one relates to his own application of double jeopardy in his own case
and henceforth getting the promotion from the year 2006. The second set of
reliefs relates to quashing the proceedings of the selection committee for the
year 2006, 2007 and 2008 whereby the respondent Nos.2 to 6 were promoted over
the applicant. The third set of reliefs relates to Respondent Nos. 7 to 11 who
have been illegally appointed. Such mixing of reliefs is not permissible under
the provisions of Rule 10 of the CAT (Procedure) Rules, 1987 cited above.
Therefore, what is permissible is the relief in a single cause of action and
the consequences that flow from the same. From the above, it also appears that
relief No.1, 2 & 5 are consequently related while relief 3 & 4 belongs to the
second category and 6 relates to a third category. The normal course in such
cases would be that one set of relief whichever happens to be primarily be
allowed that is what we propose to do in case the issues were to be
overwhelmingly decided in favour of the applicant at the end of this decision.
Issue No.3
15\. Now coming to the Issue No.3, we find that this would largely depends
that since there is undisputed case of multiplicity of reliefs and naturally
all prayers in one set of relief i.e. a seniority list, this argument appears
to hold good. Admittedly, the draft seniority list of the applicant was
published on 07.10.2009 against which the applicant has submitted his
representation. The cause of action relating to seniority of the applicant vis
a vis seniority of Respondent Nos. 2 to 6 would only arise once the final
seniority list is finally published. The applicant at this point of time
cannot be precluded from taking the view that there is no reply and hence the
requirement of Section 20 (2) (b) of the Administrative Tribunals Act, 1985
stands fulfilled. For the sake of better elucidation Section 20 2 (b) of the
Administrative Tribunals Act, 1985, reads as under:-
20 (2) (b) where no final order has been made by the Government or other
authority or officer or other person competent to pass such order with regard
to the appeal preferred or representation made by such person, if a period of
six months from the date on which such appeal was preferred or representation
was made has expired. As already discussed in respect of the Issue No.2, this
issue is also largely depended upon the findings in respect of the issues
No.4,5 & 6\.
Issue No.4
16\. Insofar as Issue No.4 is concerned, the applicant has relied upon
Regulation 13 of NHA (Conduct, Discipline & Appeal) Regulations, 1997, which
provides the punishment in the following manner:-
(a) Reprimand
(b) Withholding of increment or promotion.
(c) Demotion to a lower post or grade or to a lower stage in his incremental
scale.
(d) Recovery from pay of the whole or part of any pecuniary loss caused to the
Authority by the officer or employee. Regulation 25 of NHA (Conduct,
Discipline & Appeal) Regulations, 1997 provides as under:
25. Residuary matters:
Matters with respect of which no specific provisions have been made in these
regulations, shall be regulated under the provisions of the Central Civil
Services (Conduct, Classification and Appeal) Rules, 1965, as amended from
time to time, and the instructions issued thereunder by the Central
Government. The minor penalty under Rule 11 of the CCS (CCA) Rules, 1965
reads as under:-
..As in the case of promotion of a Government servant, who has been awarded
the penalty of censure, the penalty of recovery from his pay of the loss
caused by him to Government or of withholding his increment(s) does not stand
in the way of his consideration for promotion though in the latter case
promotion is not given effect to during the currency of the penalty.
(emphasis supplied)
17\. There is no doubt that a reading of the provisions of Rule 13 of the NHA
(Conduct, Discipline & Appeal) Regulations, 1997, invariably gives an
impression that withholding of increments or withholding of promotion are
invariably distinct and separate from each other and that there is substance
in the argument of the applicant that he cannot be awarded more than one minor
penalty for the same offence. However, it is necessary here to draw a
distinction between promotion and postponement of promotion/keeping of
promotion in abeyance during the currency of punishment. For instance by
withholding of increment from pay we would like to take the matter to a larger
context. Whether sealed cover proceedings have been followed and promotion
delayed on account of currency of penalty and the recommendations of the
selection committee were kept in a sealed cover. Even a censure awarded to him
and any currency would render him as one of the blameworthy character. Thus,
eligibility of the applicant to be considered for promotion comes into
existence only after the currency of penalty is over. When the penalty is
under currency promotion is delayed, which is the consequence for deferment of
seniority, leading to delayed promotion. The applicant cannot agitate against
the same as the case of double jeopardy. The Government of India
recommendations in this regard are as under:-
7) Promotion of employees on whom any penalty has been imposed-
The Staff Side of the National Council, at its meeting held on 27th and the
28th January 1997 raised the following points:
(i) Censure should not be a bar to eligibility to sit for a
departmental/promotional examination or for promotion
(ii) Where the responsibility of an employee for any loss is indirect, he
should not be debarred from being considered for promotion during the period
of recovery of the loss; and
(iii) A distinction should be made between stoppage of increments and
reduction to a lower stage of the pay scale and in the former type of cases,
should not be debarred from being considered for promotion. Here we have also
taken into account the argument of the learned counsel for Respondent No.1
that the NHAI Regulations are silent as to what is the date of implementation
of promotion order during the currency of the punishment. It is uncontested
that where the Regulations are silent the provisions of CCS (CCA) Rules, 1965
will apply as provided below:-
Rule 11
(i) Censure.
(ii) Withholding of his promotion.
(iii) Recovery from his pay of the whole or part of any pecuniary loss caused
by him to the Government by negligence or breach of orders.
(iv) Withholding of increments of pay. From the above, it does appear that
the currency of punishment is no bar to promotion but there is a distinction
between denial of promotion and deferment/keeping in abeyance.
18\. In the instant case, learned counsel for the respondent has drawn
attention of the Tribunal towards the minutes of the selection committee
meeting held on 20.11.2006. It appears that the applicant had participated in
the interview for the post of General Manager (Technical) and was due to
eligible. The name of the applicant figures at Sl. No.7 below one M. K.
Ganesan. A photo copy of the attendance sheet has been produced by the
applicant which indicates that he had appeared and has signed the attendance
sheet. Further a merit list was drawn up in which the applicant appears to
have placed at Sl. No.5 in the merit list for the post of general candidates
and has secured 50 marks, whereas No.1 candidate Colonel M. K.Jain had scored
82 marks. In this regard, the recommendation of the Committee in the same
proceeding is as follows :-
5. Based on the above criteria, the Committee assessed the officers as
indicated in Annexure-II. All the officers who scored 75% and more marks (65%
& above in respect of candidates belonging to SC/ST) were found suitable for
appointment. Accordingly, the following officers are recommended for
appointment in the order of merit indicated below.
Sl. No. Appl No. Name (S/Shri) Organisation/Post Held Total (100)
1\. 27 Col Mahendra Kumar Jain Indian Army 82
2\. 60 Vishal Gupta NHAI/DGM (Tech.) 80
3\. 70 Jitendra Kumar NHAI/DGM (Tech.) 80
4\. 26 Arun Kumar Gupta P.W.D. Rajasthan/SE 77 Likewise, in the meeting of the
Selection Committee held on 12.07.2007, the applicant had scored only 46 marks
whereas the cut off marks for selection was 70.
19\. Now we examine the issue that when an employee is promoted following the
expiry of the period of punishment is he restored to its original place of
seniority or he will be placed below his juniors who have been promoted during
the interregnum. It remains uncontraverted that the promotion could not have
taken place during the currency of punishment. In the meantime, the DPCs have
been held and his juniors have been promoted and have served for a period of
time. The question is can clock be set back. It is well possible that the
juniors who have been so promoted in the meantime could come up with the
grievance that whatever period of service they have rendered in the superior
capacity gets swiped out without having so earned by the employees restored.
An identical matter has been considered by the Honble Apex Court in Collector
of Thanjavur Distt. and Ors. Vs.S. Rajagopalan and Ors. [2000 (9) SCC 145]. In
the cited case, the respondents were Assistants who had been inflicted with a
minor punishment consequent to the disciplinary enquiry. The punishment
inflicted on them was stoppage of increment. When the list of Deputy
Tehsildars was drawn up for the year 1982 their names were excluded on the
ground that punishments were imposed on them, the respondents approached the
CAT which allowed their petitions with a direction for inclusion of their
names in the list of Deputy Registrars to be considered uninfluenced by minor
punishment inflicted on them and if by such consideration they were found fit
for inclusion in the list they should be suitably placed as per their
seniority in the cadre. The Honble Supreme Court held that the Tribunal had
erred in thinking that if the minor punishment is inflicted on the respondent
taking into consideration for the purpose of inclusion of their names in the
list of Deputy Tehsildar that would amount to a double jeopardy. Para 28 & 29
of the judgment reads as under:-
28. The Tribunal has also struck down the following portion in the second
subparagraph after clause (iii) of paragraph 3 which reads as follows: "If any
penalty is imposed on the officer as result of the disciplinary proceedings or
if he is found guilty in the court proceedings against him, the findings in
the sealed cover/covers shall not be acted upon" and has directed that if the
proceedings result in a penalty, the person concerned should be considered for
promotion in a Review DPC as on the original date in the light of the results
of the sealed cover as also the imposition of penalty, and his claim for
promotion cannot be deferred for the subsequent DPCs as provided in the
instructions. It may be pointed out that the said sub-paragraph directs that
"the officer's case for promotion may be considered in the usual manner by the
next DPC which meets in the normal course after the conclusion of the
disciplinary court proceedings". The Tribunal has given the direction in
question on the ground the such deferment of the claim for promotion to the
subsequent DPCs amounts to a double penalty. According to the Tribunal, "it
not only violets Articles 14 and 16 of the Constitution compared with other
employees who are not at the verge of promotion when the disciplinary
proceedings are initiated against them but also offends the rule against
double jeopardy contained in Article 20(2) of the Constitution". The Tribunal
has, therefore, held that when an employee is visited with a penalty as a
result of the disciplinary proceedings there should be a Review DPC as on the
date when the sealed cover procedure was followed and the Review DPC should
consider the findings in the sealed cover as also the penalty imposed. It is
not clear to us as to why the Tribunal wants the Review DPC to consider the
penalty imposed while considering the findings in the sealed cover if,
according to the Tribunal, not giving effecting to the findings in the sealed
cover even when a penalty is imposed, amounts to double jeopardy. However, as
we read the findings of the Tribunal, it appears that the Tribunal in no case
wants the promotion of the officer to be deference the officer is visited with
a penalty in the disciplinary proceedings and the Tribunal desires that the
officer should be given promotion as per the findings in the sealed cover.
29\. According to us, the Tribunal has erred in holding that when an officer
is found guilty in the discharge of his duties, an imposition of penalty is
all that is necessary to improve his conduct and to enforce discipline and
ensure purity in the administration. In the first instance, the penalty short
of dismissal will vary from reduction in rank to censure. We are sure that the
Tribunal has not intended that the promotion should be given to the officer
from the original date even when the penalty imparted is of reduction in rank.
On principle, for the same reasons, the officer cannot be rewarded by
promotion as a matter of course even if the penalty is other than that of the
reduction in rank. An employee has no right to promotion. He has only a right
to be considered for promotion. The promotion to a post and more so, to a
selection post, depends upon several circumstances. To qualify for promotion,
the least that is expected of an employee is to have an unblemished record.
That is the minimum expected to ensure a clean and efficient administration
and to protect the public interests. An employee found guilty of a misconduct
cannot be placed on par with the other employees and his case has to be
treated differently. There is, therefore, no discrimination when in the matter
of promotion, he is treated differently. The least that is expected of any
administration is that it does not reward an employee with promotion
retrospectively from a date when for his conduct before that date he is
penalised in presenting. When an employee is held guilty and penalised and is,
therefore, not promoted at least till the date on which he is penalised, he
cannot be said to have been subjected to a further penalty on that account. A
denial of promotion in such circumstances is not a penalty but a necessary
consequence of his conduct. In fact, while considering an employee for
promotion his whole record has to be taken into consideration and if a
promotion committee takes the penalties imposed upon the employee into
consideration and denies him the promotion, such denial is not illegal and
unjustified. If, further, the promoting authority can take into consideration
the penalty or penalties awarded to an employee in the past while considering
his promotion and deny him promotion on that ground, it will be irrational to
hold that it cannot take the penalty into consideration when it is imposed at
a later date because of the pendency of the proceedings, although it is for
conduct prior to the date the authority considers the promotion. For these
reasons, we are of the view that the Tribunal is not right in striking down
the said portion of the second sub-paragraph after Clause (iii) of paragraph 3
of the said Memorandum. We, therefore, set aside the said findings of the
Tribunal.
20\. The Honble Supreme Court have laid the issues crystal clear that an
employee found guilty of misconduct if not to be placed at the same pedestal
as other employees who have been clean and restoring into his superiority in
the cadre when he gets to be promoted amounts to punishing the latter category
of employees who have been clean and not guilty of misconduct. Moreover, we
also shudder to think that what kind of demoralizing effect it would have been
on the efficient and clean employees. Therefore, we have not the least
hesitation in rejecting both the arguments of the applicant relying the double
jeopardy and restoration of seniority when promoted.
Issue No.5
21\. In respect of the 5th issue, what the applicant has challenged in a nut
shell is that the selection committees were improperly constituted against the
rules and, therefore, any decision to be taken by them would be void ab initio
and ipso facto following the logic laid down in Rajesh Guptas case (supra).
In this regard, Rule 11 regarding the constitution of the committee as noted
in para 9 of the judgment of the Honble High Court of Delhi in WP (C) No.617
of 2009 is as follows:-
(i) Member (Administration)
(ii) Director General (Road Development) or Assistant Director General
nominated by him.
(iii) Member of the NHAI nominated by the Chairman. The said judgment of the
Honble High Court records the argument put forth in the following manner 14.
From the aforesaid argument of learned counsel for the NHAI, it is clear that
there is an acceptance of the fact that the Selection Committee was not
constituted in accordance with the requirements stipulated in Regulation 11(3)
of the Regulations. In fact, even in para 5 of the impugned judgment it was
conceded before the Tribunal also that so far as constitution of the Selection
Committee is concerned, that was not as per the aforesaid regulations.
However, NHAI is trying to provide the justification for not doing so.
15\. As noted above, as per Regulation 11(3), one of the Members in the
Selection Committee should have been DG (RD) or ADG nominated by him. NHAI
claims that there was no DG (RD) in the year 2004. This, according to the
respondent No.1, is a false stand taken as it is factually incorrect that the
post of DG (RD) was lying vacant in the year 2004. In respect of this, Mr.
Nidhesh Gupta, learned senior counsel appearing for the respondent No.1 drew
our attention to the following office orders :-
(a) Office Order No. 5/2004 dated 30.1.2004 as per which one Shri Indu
Prakash, Chief Engineer, was appointed as DG (RD) and Special Secretary in the
Ministry of Road Transport and Highways on ad-hoc basis for a period of three
months.
(b) Order dated 20.10.2004, which is a relieving order of Shri Indu Prakash,
Chief Engineer, in the Ministry of Shipping, Road Transport and Highways
because of his currently officiating as DG (RD) and Special Secretary on ad-
hoc basis.
(c) Office Order No. 87/2004 dated 29.12.2004 whereby Shri Indu Prakash, while
working as Member (Technical) in NHAI was given additional charge of the post
of DG (RD) till 26.1.2005 or until further orders, whichever event occurs
earlier.
16\. Learned counsel for the petitioner NHAI could not controvert the veracity
of the aforesaid office orders which show that Mr. Indu Prakash came as DG
(RD) on deputation to NHAI in January 2004 and remained in this capacity in
the entire year, at least. Therefore, when DG (RD) was available, the
justification for including another Chief Engineer is not tenable. The
justification that NHAI is bound by the directions of the Central Government
under Section 33 of the NHAI Act is of no consequence as it was the duty of
the NHAI to point out to the Central Government that nomination of the Chief
Engineer was not in accordance with Regulation 11(3). Section 33 stipulates
that the NHAI shall in the discharge of its functions and duties under this
Act, be bound by such directions on questions of policy.. It is only in
matters concerning the policy that the NHAI is bound and not on other matters.
In any case, the petitioner is bound to follow statutory provisions. Further,
matters concerning recruitment etc. are provided in self contained Regulations
of 1996.It was urged that the proceedings of the petitioner will not be
invalidated on account of the Selection Committee not being properly
constituted. Reliance was placed on Section 8(c). The said proposition is
incorrect since Section 8(c) of the Act provides that any irregularity in the
procedure adopted by the petitioner which does not affect the merits of the
case, will not be invalidated for the said reason. It is submitted that the
said provision concerns the petitioner. The Authority is defined in Section
3(3). The merits of the case have also been affected. Therefore, the said
Section 8 does not help the case of the petitioner as it has no application at
all.
22\. We also find that some of the arguments relating to the assertion that
there being no post of Assistant Director General in the Ministry of Road,
Transport at any given time have already been considered by the Honble High
Court. It is not possible for us to revisit this argument as has been
endeavored by the learned counsel for Respondent No.1 in particular and by
others also. However, we do pay a heed to the logic advanced by the learned
counsel for the respondents that para 27 of the judgment of the Honble High
Court in WP (C) No.617/2009 (supra) confined the coverage of the judgment in
the selection to the post of DGM (F&A). In other words, this judgment would be
applicable only to the case of applicant Rajesh Gupta and one P. K. Aggarwal
and would not extend to other cases. In this regard, for sake of better
elucidation, we choose to reproduce Para 27 of the judgment:-
27. An argument in terrorem was advanced by the learned ASG, namely the
impugned order would set aside large number of appointments. It was rightly
pointed out by the leaned counsel for the respondent No.1 that the instant
case was only concerned with the selection to the post of DGM (F&A). Moreover,
most of the concerned persons who came on deputation by those selections have
already left NHAI, as per the admission of NHAI in writ petition itself
(Ground  W). Only three persons, namely, respondent Nos. 2, 5 & 7, are going
to be affected. Significantly, they have not even approached the Court
challenging the judgment of the Tribunal and, thus, it appears that they have
accepted the judgment. Furthermore, when their appointments are found to be
illegal as they did not even fulfil the requisite qualifications, these have
to be treated as non est, as held in the following cases:
(a) Secy., State of Karnataka & Ors. v. Umadevi & Ors. (2006) 4 SCC 1 43.
Thus, it is clear that adherence to the rule of equality in public employment
is a basic feature of our Constitution and since the rule of law is the core
of our Constitution, a Court would certainly be disabled from passing an order
upholding a violation of Article 14 or in ordering the overlooking of the need
to comply with the requirements of Article 14 read with Article 16 of the
Constitution. Therefore, consistent with the scheme for public employment,
this Court while laying down the law, has necessarily to hold that unless the
appointment is in terms of the relevant rules and after a proper competition
among qualified persons, the same would not confer any right on the appointee.
If it is a contractual appointment, the appointment comes to an end at the end
of the contract, if it were an engagement or appointment on daily wages or
casual basis, the same would come to an end when it is discontinued.
Similarly, a temporary employee could not claim to be made permanent on the
expiry of his term of appointment. It has also to be clarified that merely
because a temporary employee or a casual wage worker is continued for a time
beyond the term of his appointment, he would not be entitled to be absorbed in
regular service or made permanent, merely on the strength of such continuance,
if the original appointment was not made by following a due process of
selection as envisaged by the relevant rules. It is not open to the court to
prevent regular recruitment at the instance of temporary employees whose
period of employment has come to an end or of ad hoc employees who by the very
nature of their appointment, do not acquire any right. High Courts acting
under Article 226 of the Constitution of India, should not ordinarily issue
directions for absorption, regularization, or permanent continuance unless the
recruitment itself was made regularly and in terms of the constitutional
scheme. Merely because, an employee had continued under cover of an order of
Court, which we have described as 'litigious employment' in the earlier part
of the judgment, he would not be entitled to any right to be absorbed or made
permanent in the service. In fact, in such cases, the High Court may not be
justified in issuing interim directions, since, after all, if ultimately the
employee approaching it is found entitled to relief, it may be possible for it
to mould the relief in such a manner that ultimately no prejudice will be
caused to him, whereas an interim direction to continue his employment would
hold up the regular procedure for selection or impose on the State the burden
of paying an employee who is really not required. The courts must be careful
in ensuring that they do not interfere unduly with the economic arrangement of
its affairs by the State or its instrumentalities or lend themselves the
instruments to facilitate the bypassing of the constitutional and statutory
mandates.
(b) Binod Kr. Gupta & Ors. v. Ram Ashray Mahoto & Ors., (2005) 4 SCC 209 13.
The advert6isement was no advertisement as required by the High Court.
Without adequate notice no fair opportunity was given to others who might have
applied. Apart from this, it does not appear from the records that there was
any selection procedure followed at all. There is no explanation why the
Selection Committee had been bypassed nor any acceptable reason why the
persons who had applied as far back as in 1986 were ignored. This singular
lack of transparency supports the finding of the High Court that the
appointments were not made bona fide. The District Judge, who was ultimately
responsible for the appointment of Class IV staff violated all norms in making
the appointments. It is regrettable that the instructions of the High Court
were disregarded with impunity and a procedure evolved for appointment which
cannot be said to be in any way fair or above board. The submission of the
appellants that they had been validly appointed is in the circumstances
unacceptable. Nor can be accede to their prayer to continue in service. No
doubt, at the time of issuance of the notice on the special leave petition,
this Court had restrained the termination of services of the appellants.
However, having regard to the facts of the case as have emerged, we are of the
opinion that this Court cannot be called upon to sustain such an obvious
disregard of the law and principles of conduct according to which every judge
and anyone connected with the judicial system are required to function. If we
allow the appellants to continue tin service merely because they have been
working in the posts for the last 15 years we would be guilty of condoning a
gross irregularity in their initial appointment. The High Court has been more
than generous in allowing the appellants to participate in any fresh selection
procedure as may be held and in granting a relaxation of the age limit.
23\. Moreover, we have also taken into account the argument put forth by the
learned counsel for the respondents that what has been alleged regarding
constitution of the committee was the continuous practice within the
organization. By an extension of the same argument initially the appointment
of the applicant as GM (Tech) in 1998 and promotion as Deputy General Manager
in 2008 would also stand struck down.
24\. It is very true that one cannot blow hot and cold in the same breath or
in legal language aprobat and reprobate in the same transaction. This is
supported by the judgment of Honble Supreme Court in the case of Kashmir
Singh vs. Union of India & Ors 2008 (7) SCC 259. This principle was further
enunciated in Joint Action Committee of Air Line Pilots Association of India
(ALPAI) and Others vs. Director General of Civil Aviation and Others (2011) 5
SCC 435, the Honble Supreme Court has held as under:-
12. The doctrine of election is based on the rule of estoppels- the principle
that one cannot approbate and reprobate inheres in it. The doctrine of
estoppels by election is one of the species of estoppels in pais (or equitable
estoppels), which is a rule in equity. By that law, a person may be precluded
by his actions or conduct or silence when it is his duty to speak, from
asserting a right which he otherwise would have had. Taking inconsistent pleas
by a party makes its conduct far from satisfactory. Further, the parties
should not blow hot and cold by taking inconsistent stands and prolong
proceedings unnecessarily. In yet another case, City Montessori School Vs.
State of Uttar Pradesh and Others (2009) 14 SCC 253, the Honble Supreme Court
has reiterated as under:-
28. The question which, however, falls for consideration is as to whether in
a situation of this nature, principles of natural justice were required to be
complied with. It is now a well settled principle of law that it cannot be put
in a straitjacket formula. The court despite opining that the principles of
natural justice was required to be followed my, however, decline grant of a
relief, inter alia, on the premise that the same would lead to a useless
formality or that the person concerned in fact did not suffer any prejudice.
It is trite that a party may waive his right of hearing by his conduct. It is
furthermore well settled that a fact admitted need not be proved.
Indisputably, the appellant was a party to the decision. The decision was
based on the consent of the respondents which, in the facts and circumstances
of this case, must be held to have included the appellants herein also. A
judgment rendered by a court of law and in particular a consent order, it is
trite, must not only be construed in its entirety but also having regard to
the pleadings and conduct of the parties. Issue No.6
25\. This issue has already been partly dealt with while discussing the Issue
No.4. It is well established that a punished employee whose promotion has been
kept in abeyance on account of currency of the punishment cannot be restored
to its original place once promoted. Learned counsel for the Respondent Nos.2
& 12 as also Respondent No.1 have drawn the attention of the Tribunal to the
fact that the applicant had been given the opportunity to appear in the test.
The position is further clarified by the following chart:-
Sl. No. Name Total marks secured!! 1 Lambodar Prasad Padhy 98
2\. Ashutosh Gautam 95
3\. C. K. Sinha (OBC) 83
4\. Ravi Bhushan Sinha 82
5\. Awadhesh Kumar Singh 80
26\. The applicant had further appeared in the interview dated 1.02.2008 and
had secured 80% marks awarded by the selection committee which is equivalent
to the marks secured by Awadhesh, the candidate No.5 and Respondent No.6 in
the instant proceedings. However, the punishment awarded to the applicant is
still in currency, the applicant could not be considered. Having once
considered and not selected does not open to the applicant to challenge the
proceedings of the committee. He could have challenged the same but earlier
without having been participated in the selection process.
Issue No.7
27\. Now, we come to Issue No.7 relating to the appointment of Respondent
Nos.7 to 11. The arguments of the parties counsel on this point have already
noted earlier. We come straight to the crux of the problem. These respondents
are all ex-army officers. The grievance of the applicant is that they have
been selected as ad hoc appointment on absorption basis by considering their
ACRs whereas the applicant was selected as GM (Technical) on promotion basis.
It is wrong on the part of the respondent No.1 to introduce this dual system
which is discriminatory and the answering respondents who have already been
assessed on the basis of points. The applicant had also challenged the
appointment of the answering respondents on the ground of wrong constitution
of the committee which has already been discussed and settled in respect to
Issue No.5 and need not to be discussed further. We are compelled to take into
account the argument of the respondents that the applicant is precluded from
assailing their appointment on the grounds of wrong constitution and
relaxation of experience as admittedly he himself has been promoted as DGM
Technical only after 3 years and 5 months of service as against the four years
requirement. In this regard, we place our reliance on the judgment of Honble
Apex Court in the matter of Dhananjay Malik & Ors. Vs. State of Uttaranchal &
Others 2008 (4) SCC 171 8. In Madan Lal v. State of J & K : [1995]-1-SCR-908,
this Court pointed out that when the petitioners appeared at the oral
interview conducted by the Members concerned of the Commission who interviewed
the petitioners as well as the contesting respondents concerned, the
petitioners took a chance to get themselves selected at the said oral
interview. Therefore, only because they did not find themselves to have
emerged successful as a result of their combined performance both at written
test and oral interview, they have filed writ petitions. This Court further
pointed out that if a candidate takes a calculated chance and appears at the
interview, then, only because the result of the interview is not palatable to
him, he cannot turn round and subsequently contend that the process of
interview was unfair or the Selection Committee was not properly constituted.
In the present case, as already pointed out, the writ petitioners- respondents
herein participated in the selection process without any demur; they are
estopped from complaining that the selection process was not in accordance
with the Rules. If they think that the advertisement and selection process
were not in accordance with the Rules they could have challenged the
advertisement and selection process without participating in the selection
process. This has not been done.
9\. In a recent judgment in the case of Marripati Nagaraja v. The Government
of Andhra Pradesh : JT-2007(12)SC-407 at p.516 SCR this Court has succinctly
held that the appellants had appeared at the examination without any demur.
They did not question the validity of fixing the said date before the
appropriate authority. They are, therefore, estopped and precluded from
questioning the selection process.
We are of the view that the Division Bench of the High Court could have
dismissed the appeal on this score alone as has been done by the learned
Single Judge.
This judgment appears to have been further reinforced by the case of K. A.
Nagamani vs. Indian Airlines and Others AIR 2009 SC 3240.
28\. Now we take up the question that whether the appointment by absorption is
permitted under the NHAI (Recruitment, Seniority and Promotion) Regulations,
1996. In this regard, it is to be mentioned that Regulation 4 makes
classification of all 4 posts in category A, B, C & D. Regulation 5 provides
that the appointment to the post shall be governed as per the schedule.
Admittedly, suppose that we are dealing with the matter relate to Group-A
category, the post of General Manager is of A category, wherein the mode of
recruitment has been prescribed as on transfer on deputation/promotion/direct
recruitment. In other words, any of these could be resorted to. The objection
of the applicant is that the term ad hoc promotion has not been resorted to.
It has not been mentioned anywhere in these Regulations. In this regard, the
Respondent No.1 has explained in Para 4.19 of the reply to the OA as under:-
4.19 Contents of Para 4.19 are admitted to the extent that Responents No.7 to
11 were selected by the Selection Committee vide minutes dated 25.02.2010 for
ad hoc appointment on absorption basis for the post of GM (Technical) and they
were issued letters of appointment dated 26.02.2010, pending their permanent
absorption on completion of certain formalities. It is denied that there is
any illegality in the same, or that the same is contrary to the Rules and
Regulations.
29\. It has been argued during the course of the early submissions that in
view of the urgent requirement of the man power the answering respondents
Nos.7 to 11 were issued appointment letters pending fulfillment of other
formalities. This was done in the interest of work and there is nothing
irregular about that. We tend to agree with this position on the ground that
ad hoc absorption is not a category in itself but it only denotes prefixes and
denotes that the observation has been made subject to the fulfillment of a
certain formality. This in no way detracts from the regular absorption except
on the point that it was not permanent and in case that any of these
formalities were not fulfilled it would be subject to the revocation. We are
also to note in this regard that use of such language and procedures are
resorted to in government working and do not in any way serve to vitiate the
process or rendered the selection process null and void. Regulation 15 (3) of
the NHAI (Recruitment, Seniority and Promotion) Regulations, 1996, referred to
as to how this seniority is to be determined. For the sake of clarity, we
reproduce Regulation 15 (3) as under:-
15 (3) The seniority of persons initially appointed on deputation and
subsequently absorbed in the Authority shall be reckoned from the date of
their initial appointment. If two or more persons in the same grade get
absorbed in the Authority on the same date, their inter se seniority shall be
determined with reference to their seniority level in their parent cadre.
30\. It has also been noted earlier in this order that the list published has
been draft seniority list and it is not open to challenge before this court at
the present juncture. Therefore, we leave the issue of seniority opened to be
decided as per the procedures. We conclude this issue by holding that there is
nothing wrong we have been able to find that the appointment of respondent
Nos.7 to 11 is wrong.
Issue No.8
31\. Coming to the last issue what weighs, in our consideration, even at the
cost of repetition is that the applicant has all along played it safe. He
accepted the punishment without questioning the same. He chooses to remain
silent till he was promoted and then raked up the issue which he could have
well done earlier. We also found no merit in the argument of double jeopardy
or restoration of two original place of cadre seniority in the arguments of
the applicant. Conversely falls that the seniority assigned to Respondent
Nos.2 to 6 has been done correctly. We also find that the arguments raised in
challenging the appointment of Respondent Nos. 7 to 11 do not hold much water
and fail to sustain by leaving open the question of seniority to be decided as
per rules.
32\. Therefore, we find that the OA is devoid of merit on the basis of the
discussions above. The same is accordingly dismissed without costs.
    (Dr. B. K. Sinha)						(Syed Rafat Alam)
       Member (A)							     Chairman
    /pj/ 
decided as per the procedures. We conclude this issue by holding that there is
nothing wrong we have been able to find that the appointment of respondent
Nos.7 to 11 is wrong.
Issue No.8
31\. Coming to the last issue what weighs, in our consideration, even at the
cost of repetition is that the applicant has all along played it safe. He
accepted the punishment without questioning the same. He chooses to remain
silent till he was promoted and then raked up the issue which he could have
well done earlier. We also found no merit in the argument of double jeopardy
or restoration of two original place of cadre seniority in the arguments of
the applicant. Conversely falls that the seniority assigned to Respondent
Nos.2 to 6 has been done correctly. We also find that the arguments raised in
challenging the appointment of Respondent Nos. 7 to 11 do not hold much water
and fail to sustain by leaving open the question of seniority to be decided as
per rules.
32\. Therefore, we find that the OA is devoid of merit on the basis of the
    Through its Chairman
    G-5 & 6, Sector 10
    Dwarka
    New Delhi.
    2.	Shri  Lambodar Prasad Padhey 
    General Manager (T)
    National Highway Authority of India
    G-5 & 6, Sector 10
    Dwarka 
    New Delhi.
    3.	Shri Ashutosh Gautam
    General Manager (T)
    National Highway Authority of India 
    P.I.U. Lucknow
    1/73G, Vinnet Khand
    Gomti Nagar
    Lucknow (U.P.)
    4.	Shri Chander Kumar Sinha
    General Manager (T)
    National Highway Authority of India 
decided as per the procedures. We conclude this issue by holding that there is
nothing wrong we have been able to find that the appointment of respondent
Nos.7 to 11 is wrong.
Issue No.8
31\. Coming to the last issue what weighs, in our consideration, even at the
cost of repetition is that the applicant has all along played it safe. He
accepted the punishment without questioning the same. He chooses to remain
silent till he was promoted and then raked up the issue which he could have
well done earlier. We also found no merit in the argument of double jeopardy
or restoration of two original place of cadre seniority in the arguments of
the applicant. Conversely falls that the seniority assigned to Respondent
Nos.2 to 6 has been done correctly. We also find that the arguments raised in
challenging the appointment of Respondent Nos. 7 to 11 do not hold much water
and fail to sustain by leaving open the question of seniority to be decided as
per rules.
32\. Therefore, we find that the OA is devoid of merit on the basis of the
    Through its Chairman
    G-5 & 6, Sector 10
    Dwarka
    New Delhi.
    2.	Shri  Lambodar Prasad Padhey 
    General Manager (T)
    National Highway Authority of India
    G-5 & 6, Sector 10
    Dwarka 
    New Delhi.
    3.	Shri Ashutosh Gautam
    General Manager (T)
    National Highway Authority of India 
    P.I.U. Lucknow
    1/73G, Vinnet Khand
    Gomti Nagar
    Lucknow (U.P.)
    4.	Shri Chander Kumar Sinha
    General Manager (T)
    National Highway Authority of India 
decided as per the procedures. We conclude this issue by holding that there is
nothing wrong we have been able to find that the appointment of respondent
Nos.7 to 11 is wrong.
Issue No.8
31\. Coming to the last issue what weighs, in our consideration, even at the
cost of repetition is that the applicant has all along played it safe. He
accepted the punishment without questioning the same. He chooses to remain
silent till he was promoted and then raked up the issue which he could have
well done earlier. We also found no merit in the argument of double jeopardy
or restoration of two original place of cadre seniority in the arguments of
the applicant. Conversely falls that the seniority assigned to Respondent
Nos.2 to 6 has been done correctly. We also find that the arguments raised in
challenging the appointment of Respondent Nos. 7 to 11 do not hold much water
and fail to sustain by leaving open the question of seniority to be decided as
per rules.
32\. Therefore, we find that the OA is devoid of merit on the basis of the
    Through its Chairman
    G-5 & 6, Sector 10
    Dwarka
    New Delhi.
    2.	Shri  Lambodar Prasad Padhey 
    General Manager (T)
    National Highway Authority of India
    G-5 & 6, Sector 10
    Dwarka 
    New Delhi.
    3.	Shri Ashutosh Gautam
    General Manager (T)
    National Highway Authority of India 
    P.I.U. Lucknow
    1/73G, Vinnet Khand
    Gomti Nagar
    Lucknow (U.P.)
    4.	Shri Chander Kumar Sinha
    General Manager (T)
    National Highway Authority of India 
    P.I.U., B-1, Agam, Raw House 
    Opp. Sakar Apartment,
    Behind ICICI Bank,
    City Light, Surat
    Gujarat.
    5.	Shri Ravi Bhushan Sinha 
    General Manger (T)
    National Highway Authority of India
    G-5 & 6, Sector 10
    Dwarka, New Delhi.
    6.	Shri Avadhesh Kumar Singh
decided as per the procedures. We conclude this issue by holding that there is
nothing wrong we have been able to find that the appointment of respondent
Nos.7 to 11 is wrong.
Issue No.8
31\. Coming to the last issue what weighs, in our consideration, even at the
cost of repetition is that the applicant has all along played it safe. He
accepted the punishment without questioning the same. He chooses to remain
silent till he was promoted and then raked up the issue which he could have
well done earlier. We also found no merit in the argument of double jeopardy
or restoration of two original place of cadre seniority in the arguments of
the applicant. Conversely falls that the seniority assigned to Respondent
Nos.2 to 6 has been done correctly. We also find that the arguments raised in
challenging the appointment of Respondent Nos. 7 to 11 do not hold much water
and fail to sustain by leaving open the question of seniority to be decided as
per rules.
32\. Therefore, we find that the OA is devoid of merit on the basis of the
    Through its Chairman
    G-5 & 6, Sector 10
    Dwarka
    New Delhi.
    2.	Shri  Lambodar Prasad Padhey 
    General Manager (T)
    National Highway Authority of India
    G-5 & 6, Sector 10
    Dwarka 
    New Delhi.
    3.	Shri Ashutosh Gautam
    General Manager (T)
    National Highway Authority of India 
    P.I.U. Lucknow
    1/73G, Vinnet Khand
    Gomti Nagar
    Lucknow (U.P.)
    4.	Shri Chander Kumar Sinha
    General Manager (T)
    National Highway Authority of India 
    P.I.U., B-1, Agam, Raw House 
    Opp. Sakar Apartment,
    Behind ICICI Bank,
    City Light, Surat
    Gujarat.
    5.	Shri Ravi Bhushan Sinha 
    General Manger (T)
    National Highway Authority of India
    G-5 & 6, Sector 10
    Dwarka, New Delhi.
    6.	Shri Avadhesh Kumar Singh
decided as per the procedures. We conclude this issue by holding that there is
nothing wrong we have been able to find that the appointment of respondent
Nos.7 to 11 is wrong.
Issue No.8
31\. Coming to the last issue what weighs, in our consideration, even at the
cost of repetition is that the applicant has all along played it safe. He
accepted the punishment without questioning the same. He chooses to remain
silent till he was promoted and then raked up the issue which he could have
well done earlier. We also found no merit in the argument of double jeopardy
or restoration of two original place of cadre seniority in the arguments of
the applicant. Conversely falls that the seniority assigned to Respondent
Nos.2 to 6 has been done correctly. We also find that the arguments raised in
challenging the appointment of Respondent Nos. 7 to 11 do not hold much water
and fail to sustain by leaving open the question of seniority to be decided as
per rules.
32\. Therefore, we find that the OA is devoid of merit on the basis of the
