Delhi High Court
Pepsi Co. Inc. And Anr. vs Hindustan Coca Cola And Ors. on 1 September, 2001
Equivalent citations: 94 (2001) DLT 30
Author: C Mahajan
Bench: C Mahajan
JUDGMENT C.K. Mahajan, J.
1\. By way of this application for grant of an interim injunction, the
plaintiffs seek orders restraining the defendants from in any manner
infringing upon the registered trademark of the plaintiffs by use of Globe
Device, the word PAPPI or any other word which is deceptively similar to the
mark of the plaintiffs Pepsi by using the same in the impugned commercials.
Restraint is also sought against the defendants from infringing upon the
copyright of the plaintiffs in the works YEH DIL MANGE MORE, Globe Device,
television commercials of the plaintiffs including the Roller Coaster
Commercial. What the plaintiffs seek is that the defendants be restrained from
telecasting the impugned commercials or any other form of advertising through
print, electronic or media on the ground that impugned commercials infringe
the trademark and copyright of the plaintiffs and disparage the plaintiffs'
products which has resulted in dilution of plaintiffs' goodwill and
reputation.
95\. In light of the aforesaid discussion, I am of the view that plaintiffs do
not make out a prima facie case for grant of an interim injunction. The
balance of convenience is also against grant of any interlocutory injunction.
96\. It is a unique case of its own kind and the issues that arise there from
are be decided on the basis of evidence of the parties. Having arrived at a
prima facie opinion, it would be in the interest of justice requiring the
defendants to give an undertaking to pay damages, if at the final stage and
after detailed evidence and arguments and mature consideration of the facts,
the plaintiffs succeed in the suit.
97\. Having regard to the facts and circumstances of the case and in light of
the foregoing discussion, I do not think it appropriate to grant temporary
injunction in favor of the plaintiffs as sought for in the present
application. The application is accordingly dismissed, subject to the
condition that the defendants shall furnish an undertaking to pay damages to
the plaintiffs within four weeks of the decision of the suit in favor of the
plaintiffs and against the defendants. No order as to costs.
reputation.
2\. The multi-national giants namely Pepsico Inc and Ors. and Hindustan Coca
Cola and another are at war again on the economic plane in a bid to dominate
the soft drink market, There is long history of trade rivalry between these
two multinational Corporations.
3\. Another round of litigation has commenced between these two multinational
Corporations and this time in the field of comparative advertising. The
commercials by the defendants for its products have been objected to by the
plaintiffs on the grounds of infringement of their rights under the trademark
and Copyright Act and on the ground of disparagement.
4\. The plaintiffs claim to be the registered owners of the mark PEPSI, PEPSI
COLA and Globe Device.
The details of registration are as under:
The details of registration are as under :
The details of registration are as under :
    Trade Mark             Registration No.        Class          Date
    PEPSI-COLA            81553                 32           11.6.1943
    PEPSI                      173280                32           21.2.1956
    PEPSI                      417908                32           18.2.1984
    PEPSI-COLA                 417909                32       18.2.1984
    Globe Device +            417911          32           18.2.1984
    Pepsi Cola   
    Globe Device +             417910                32           18.2.1984
    Pepsi   
    Globe Device               563981                32           18.12.1991
    Globe Device +             563997          32           18.12.1991
    Three Field 
    Device + Pepsi
    Light.   
    Applications due to be registered  
    Globe + Three              563995                32           18.12.1991
    field Device +   
    Pepsi.     
    Globe + Three              563996                32           18.12.1991
    field Device +   
    Diet Pepsi 
    The plaintiffs also claim to be owners of the copyright in the work YEH DIL MANGE MORE: The details of registration are as under: 
       Registration No.    Date         Work
    L-18403/99          7.7.1999     YEH DIL MANGE MORE-(phrase)
    L-18404/99          7.7.1999     YEH DIL MANGE MORE-(song)      
5\. ownership is also claimed by the plaintiffs on the trademark YEH DIL MANGE
MORE. The plaintiffs applied on 31st December, 1998 for registration of the
said phrase YEH DIL MANGE MORE as a trade mark under the Trade and Merchandise
Marks Act, 1958. The detail of application are as under:
       Trade Mark Appl. No. Class          Mark
    834700                  32             Pepsi YEH DIL MANGE MORE
                                           label.
    834701                  32             Pepsi YEH DIL MANGE MORE
                                           (word per se). 
     6. The plaintiffs also claim to have exclusive right in the Roller Coaster
    Commercial. The Globe Device is also claimed to be an original artistic work under
    the Copyright Act. 
7\. The plaintiffs popularised its products by means of publicity in the print
media, electronic media, hoardings, banners etc. Various advertising themes
were introduced by the plaintiffs. In December, 1998, the plaintiffs coined
the phrase YEH DIL MANGE MORE for advertising Pepsi. The plaintiffs claim that
the phrase YEH DIL MANGE MORE is original literary work, which was registered
under the Copyright Act of 1957. With the adoption of the said phrase, it has
come to be exclusively associated with the plaintiffs. The plaintiffs claim
YEH DIL MANGE MORE to be a mark apart from the statutory right under the
Copyright Act. In short, the plaintiffs claim to be exclusive ownership and
the lawful proprietor of all rights in Pepsi, Globe Device and the phrase YEH
DIL MANGE MORE, which are registered under The Trade and Merchandise Marks
Act, 1958 (hereinafter referred to as 1958 Act) and Copyright Act of 1957. The
plaintiffs contend that the use of the word Pepsi or any other deceptively
similar word constitutes infringement of the plaintiffs registered trademark,
The use of the Globe Device or any other device which is a colourable
imitation or a substantial reproduction of the said device constitute
violation of trademark right and copyright in favor of the plaintiffs. The use
of phrase YEH DIL MANGE MORE or a substantial portion of the same also
constitute infringement of plaintiffs copyright.
8\. With a view to promote their products i.e. Thums Up and Sprite, a series
of television commercials were launched by the defendants.
9\. The plaintiffs allege that the defendants' commercial disparage the goods
of the plaintiffs, infringe the trademark and copyright of the plaintiffs in
relation to the plaintiffs mark Pepsi, Globe Device and the phrase YEH DIL
MANGE MORE. The Roller Coaster Commercial has been copied by the defendants,
thus infringing the copyright of the plaintiffs. It is in these circumstances
that the plaintiffs in this action pray that the defendants be injuncted from
infringing the registered trademark and copyright of the plaintiffs and be
further restrained from telecasting the commercials.
10\. The application is opposed by the defendants. The allegations are
controverter. It is stated the present litigation is frivolous and the
plaintiffs are not entitled to equitable relief prayed for. It is stated that
Cola War is a matter of trade rivalry and a market place matter and ought not
to spill over to the Court of law. They further contend that this Court shall
not encourage luxury litigation and the parties should be left to approach an
appropriate Forum for settling their commercial disputes. The defendants have
neither infringed the trademark or copyright of the plaintiffs nor they
disparage the goods of plaintiffs in any manner. It was contended that
defendants are at liberty to puff and promote their goods. It is also
submitted that the suit has been filed mala fide as the plaintiffs have
complained to this Court of advertising campaigns on part of the defendants
but they themselves have indulged in campaigns of comparative advertising
which are offensive and disparaging.
11\. It was also stated that the defendants have spent crores of rupees on
their advertising campaigns. The effect of an injunction at the interim stage
would cause grievous injury and loss to the defendants. According to the
defendants the advertisements are nothing more than a parody and are aimed at
poking fun at the advertisement of the plaintiffs.
12\. It is not necessary to detail the story board of the advertisements/
commercials. According to plaintiffs, advertisement No. 1 at page 30,
advertisement No. 2 at pages 35 to 45, advertisement No. 3 at pages 46 to 50
and advertisement No. 4 at page 51 of the plaint violates the statutory and
common law rights of the plaintiffs and also disparage the goods of the
plaintiffs. The Roller Coaster Commercial (Sprite Commercial) of the
defendants is stated to be a virtual reproduction of the plaintiffs'
commercial, thus infringing the copyright of the plaintiffs in its Roller
Coaster Commercial. It is stated that it copies all elements of plaintiff's
Roller Coaster Commercial.
13\. A party would be entitled to relief under Order 39 Rules 1 and 2 provided
it satisfies the Court that it has a prima facie case; that balance of
convenience is in his favor and that irreparable loss and injury would be
caused to him if interim relief is not granted. The aforesaid three phrases
are not rhetoric phrases but elastic words to meet a wide range of situation
in given set of facts and circumstances. The burden is always on the
plaintiff/applicant to satisfy the Court that a prima facie case exists in his
favor. The Court must further satisfy itself that non-interference by the
Court would result in irreparable injury to a party seeking relief.
Irreparable injury means that the injury must be a material one, one that the
Court cannot adequately compensate by way of damages. The Court is expected to
exercise sound judicial discretion to find out the amount of substantial
mischief or injury which is likely to be caused to one party if injunction is
refused and compare it with mischief or injury that is likely to be caused to
the other party if the injunction is granted.
14\. In the present case important questions have been raised which will have
for reaching consequences in their nature and impact on the trading community
as a whole. According to the plaintiffs', the use of a competitor trade mark,
even though not resulting in any deception/ confusion, for the purposes of
comparative advertising per se amounts to infringement.
15\. Another interesting question that arises on which no Indian law has been
placed before this Court is whether the use by the defendants of the
plaintiffs mark in comparative advertising constitutes infringement.
16\. According to the plaintiffs, the use of a competitor's trade mark, even
though not resulting in any deception/confusion, for the purposes of
comparative advertising per se amounts to infringement. The commercial
advertisements of the defendants infringe the globe device and Pepsi mark.
17\. It is not in dispute that the plaintiffs are the registered owners of the
trade mark Pepsi and the globe device. In the process of comparison it is
alleged that the defendants have infringed the mark and the device of the
plaintiffs. Exclusive rights are conferred by Section 28 of the Act and the
use of the mark or the device or deceptively similar marks constitute
infringement.
18\. The plaintiffs made a comparative study of the Trade Mark Acts of U.K.
and India. It was stated that the Trade Marks Act, 1940 and 1958 Act of India
were based on Trade Mark Act, 1938 (U.K.) (hereinafter called as 1938 Act).
Section 4(1)(b) of the U.K. Act was an integral part of 1958 Act and it was
stated that the words "in a case in which the use is used upon goods or in
physical relation thereto" were incorporated in Section 2(2)(b) of 1958 Act of
India. The words "as imparting a reference to some persons having their right
either as proprietor or as registered user or use the trade mark or to goods
with which such a person as aforesaid is connected in the course of trade" is
contained in the definition of the Trade Mark in 1958 Act. It is contended
that these two portions have to be automatically read as a part of Section 29
as the terms "use in the relation of goods and trade mark are contained in
Section 29".
19\. Similar provisions, it is stated, exists under the Irish Trade Mark Act
and in the Newzealand Trade Mark Act.
20\. Reliance was placed on Bismag v. Amlins, 1940 (2) All ER 608,
(hereinafter called as Bismag case). In that case, defendant used the
plaintiff's registered trade mark 'Bisurated' in its comparative advertising.
The advertisement related to a comparison of the prices between the
plaintiff's and the defendant's products. It was held that defendant had
infringed upon the exclusive right of the plaintiffs. Reliance was also placed
on Montana Wines v. Villamaria Wines Ltd., 1985 FSR 400; Gallaher (Dublin)
Limited v. The Health Education Bureau, 1982 FSR 464; and Compaq v. Dell
Computers, 1992 FSR 93.
21\. It was further contended that the registered trade marks or deceptively
similar marks of the plaintiffs have been used by the defendants in violation
of the exclusive right conferred upon the plaintiffs under Section 28 of the
Act and the same would constitute infringement. According to the plaintiffs,
the following questions arose for consideration:
    (a)     Whether the device used by the defendants is identical and deceptively
    similar to the Globe Device? 
     (b)    Whether the defendants used the word Pepsi or any other deceptively similar word/mark in their advertisements? and  
     (c)     Whether the said use constituted infringement of registered trade mark?  
     22. The plaintiffs urged that a prima facie case is established from the fact that
    the defendants have infringed the registered trademark and the Globe Device of the
    plaintiffs. The plaintiffs conceded that there was no decided Indian case on the issue
    of use of the plaintiffs trade mark in comparative advertising and the question,
    whether or not there was infringement of their trademark, could only be answered
    on a reading of the 1958 Act and the particular Sections 2(1)(v)(ii) and 2(2)(a) and
    2(2)(b), Section 28 and Section 29. 
     23. The defendants opposed the application and contended that plaintiffs
    have failed to make out any prima facie case for grant of interim protection. To
    constitute infringement the plaintiffs had to show that the defendants use of the 
    mark Pepsi or the Globe Device or any other mark identical with or deceptively 
    similar thereto was in the course of trade and that such use was in relation to the
    defendants goods in such a manner as to suggest that the goods were manufactured
    by the defendants. 
24\. Reliance was placed on the judgment of Supreme Court in Kaviraj Pandit
Durga Dutt Sharma v. Navaratna Pharmaceutical Laboratories, wherein the Court
laid down the tests for determining deceptive similarity between marks in the
context of registration in cases of infringement. Reference is also made to
the tests formulated by Lord Parker in Re Pionotist Company Ltd. reported in
23 (1906) RPC 774, 777. Reliance was also placed on a judgment of Supreme
Court in Ruston and Hornby Limited v. Zamindara Engineering Company, , wherein
the Supreme Court laid down tests to be followed in an action for
infringement.
25\. The defendants denied the use of the word Pepsi in their commercial and
urged that the word PAPPI is neither visually nor phonetically similar to the
word Pepsi. There was thus no question of infringement of the plaintiffs trade
mark. The word PAPPI was being used by defendants since 1999 and till filing
of the suit the plaintiffs did not consider the use as amounting to
infringement. The delay on this account would disentitle the plaintiffs for
interlocutory relief. The Globe Device did not give monopoly to plaintiffs nor
was the plaintiffs entitled to any exclusivity in respect of colours. The
defendants television commercial did not disclose any recognizable device and
in any event it was similar to the circular device of the defendants, which
are registered trade marks of the defendants company. Even if the defendants
were to use the trade mark Pepsi or the Globe Device it would not amount to
infringement of the plaintiffs trademark in light of the provisions of 1958
Act. Section 21(1) of the 1940 Act reproduced Section 4(1)(b) of the 1938 Act
but with some changes. In Australia, Section 4(1)(b) was deliberately omitted.
Reliance was placed on 123 A.L.R. 593, 602 in Musidor B.V. v. Tansing. Justice
Dean Committee in Australia observed as under:
"In view of these judicial strictures we should certainly not be prepared to
adopt the British provision as drafted. However, we go further and consider
that so novel and far-reaching a provision should not be enacted at all."
26\. When changes were to be made to 1940 Act, Mr. Justice Rajagopala Ayyangar
Committee recommended that the law should be as laid down in the Yeast-Vite
case. In the opinion of Justice Ayyangar "only manner in which Section 21 has
to be amended is by deleting Sub-clause (b), as its presence is calculated to
cause confusion". Section 29 of the 1958 Act has accordingly omitted the
provisions contained in Clause (b) of Section 21 of 1940 Act.
27\. The net result of defendants' submission was that the law in respect of
comparative advertising under the 1958 was exactly what it was in U.K. prior
to 1938 Act i.e. the law laid down in Yeast-Vite case. The law laid down in
Bismag is not the law that is applicable in India. The decision in Bismag came
to be doubted by House of Lords in Aristoe v. Rysta, reported in 62 (1945) RPC
65, wherein Lord McMillon observed :
"I do not think that the widened language of the 1938 Act has inferentially
altered the essential conception of a trade mark in law and in this I agree
with the prefer the judgments in the Bismag case of my noble and learned
friend then Simonds, J...... and MacKinnon, L.J. whose reasoning I need not
repeat.
A trade mark must still be registered in respect of goods, it must be used in
relation to goods, it must indicate a connection in the course of trade
between goods and the user of the trade mark."
28\. Therefore, there was infringement only when the use of the mark by the
alleged infringer was for the purpose of indicating the origin of the goods as
being in him.
29\. What is to be seen is whether the plaintiffs make out a prima facie case
for grant of an interim injunction. Whether the conduct of the defendants
injures the rights and goodwill and the business of the plaintiffs. Whether
the plaintiffs have suffered irreparable injury and loss to entitle him to
grant of an injunction:
30\. In order to protect the legal and statutory right of a party, the Courts
would grant appropriate relief in the facts and circumstances of each case.
The plaintiffs state that a prima facie case is established on the facts and
circumstances of the present case inasmuch as it is established that
defendants have infringed the trade mark of the plaintiffs in the mark Pepsi
and the Globe Device logo, copy right of the plaintiffs in the phrase YEH DIL
MANGE MORE and the infringement of copyright in the Roller Coaster Commercial
in terms of Section 14 of the Copyright Act. A copy can either be of the whole
work or a substantial part of the work. The essential elements of the
plaintiffs commercial in cinematograph film have been copied by the defendants
in their television commercials and this act constitute infringement of
copyright.
31\. The parties addressed arguments at considerable length and voluminous
record has been placed before this Court in the form of pleadings, written
submissions and the citations even though the matter was listed for arguments
on the question of grant of an injunction.
32\. To appreciate the contention of the plaintiffs, the relevant provisions,
which form the basis of the claim of the plaintiffs are extracted:
"Section 2(1)(v) "trade mark" means-
(i) in relation to Chapter X (other than Section 81), a registered trade mark
or a mark used in relation to goods for the purpose of indicating or so as to
indicate a connection in the course of trade between the goods and some person
having the as proprietor to use the mark; arid
(ii) in relation to the other provisions of this Act, a mark used or proposed
to be used in relation to goods for the purpose of indicating or so as to
indicate a connection in the course of trade-between the goods and some person
having the right, either as proprietor or as registered user, to use the mark
whether with or without any indication of the identity of that person, and
includes a certification trade mark registered as such under the provisions of
Chapter VIII;"
"Section 2(2)(b) of 1958 Act (2)(2) In this Act, unless the context otherwise
requires, any reference -
(a) ......
(b) to the use of a mark in relation to goods shall be construed as a
reference to the use of the mark upon, or in any physical or in any other
relation whatsoever to such goods;"
"Section 28
28\. Rights conferred by registration.--(1) Subject to the other provisions of
this Act, the registration of a trade mark in part A or part B of the register
shall, if valid, give to the registered proprietor of the trade mark the
exclusive right to the use of the trade mark in relation to the goods in
respect of which the trade mark is registered and to obtain relief in respect
of infringement of the trade mark in the manner provided by this Act.
(2) The exclusive right to the use of a trade mark given under Sub-section (1)
shall be subject to any conditions and limitations to which the registration
is subject.
(3) Where two or more persons are registered proprietors of trade marks, which
are identical with or nearly resemble each other, the exclusive right to the
use of any of those trade marks shall not (except so far as their respective
rights are subject to any conditions or limitations entered on the register)
be deemed to have been acquired by any one of those persons as against any
other of those persons merely by registration of the trade marks bur each of
these persons has otherwise the same rights as against other persons (not
being registered users using by way of permitted use) as he would have if he
were the sole registered proprietor."
"Section 29
29\. Infringement of trade marks.--(1) A registered trade mark is infringed by
a person who, not being the registered proprietor of the trade mark or a
registered user thereof using by way of permitted use, uses in the course of a
trade mark which is identical with, or deceptively similar to, the trade mark,
in relation to any goods in respect of which the trade mark is registered and
in such manner as to render the use of the mark likely to be taken as being
used as a trade mark.
(2) In an action for infringement of a trade mark registered in part B of the
register an injunction or other relief shall not be granted to the plaintiff
if the defendant establishes to the satisfaction of the Court that the use of
the mark of which the plaintiff complaints is not likely to deceive or cause
confusion or to be taken as indicating a connection in the course of trade
between the goods in respect of which the trade mark is registered and some
person having the right, either as registered proprietor or as registered
user, to use the trade mark."
33\. The relevant provisions of the Trade Mark Act of 1940, the Trade Mark Act
of 1938 (U.K.) are extracted in order to appreciate the submissions of the
parties:
"The Trade Marks Act, 1940 Section 2. (1) In this Act, unless there is
anything repugnant in the subject or context -- Indian Trade Marks Act, 1940;
     (f)      "mark" includes a device, brand, heading, label, ticket, name, signature, word, letter or numeral or any combination thereof; 
     (1)      ''trade mark" means a mark used or proposed to be used in relation to goods for the purpose of indicating or so as to indicate a connection in the course of trade between the goods and some person having the right, either as proprietor or as registered user, to use the mark whether with or without any indication of the identity of that person;  
     Trade Mark Act, 1938 (U.K.) 
     Section 4. Right given by registration in part A, and infringement thereof - 
(I) Subject to the provisions of this section, and of sections seven and eight
of this Act, the registration (whether before or after the commencement of
this Act) of a person in part A of the register as proprietor of a trade mark
(other than a certification trade mark) in respect of any goods shall, if
valid, give or be deemed to have given to that person the exclusive right, to
the use of the trade mark in relation to those goods and, without prejudice to
the generality of the foregoing words, that right shall be deemed to be
infringed by any person who, not being the proprietor of the trade mark or a
registered user thereof using by way of the permitted use, uses a mark
identical with it or so nearly resembling it as to be likely to deceive or
cause confusion, in the course of trade, in relation to any goods in respect
of which it is registered, and in such manner as to render the use of the mark
likely to be taken either -
    (a)     as being use as a trade mark; or  
     (b)     in a case in which the use is use upon the goods or in physical relation thereto or in an advertising circular or other advertisement issued to the public, as importing a reference to some person having the right either as proprietor or as registered user to use the trade mark or to goods with which such a person as aforesaid is connected in the course of trade.  
     Section 68. Interpretation  
     (1)     ..... 
     (2)     References in this Act to the use of a mark shall be construed, as
    references to the use of a printed or other visual representation of the
     mark, and references therein to the use of a mark in relation to goods
    shall be construed as references to the use thereof upon, or in physical
    or other relation to, goods."   
34\. A new dimension is sought to be given to Section 29 of the Act by the
plaintiffs. Section 29 has been considered by the Apex Court in its various
decisions and also by the High Courts in relation to its scope with regard to
infringement of trade mark. The Supreme Court has laid down tests in its
various decisions.
35\. In Kaviraj Pandit Durga Dutt Sharma v. Navaratna Pharmaceutical
Laboratories case (supra), the Supreme Court in para 29 observed as under:
" When once the use by the defendant of the mark which is claimed to infringe
the plaintiff's mark is shown to be "in the course of trade", the question
whether there has seen an infringement is to be decided by comparison of the
two marks. Where the two marks are identical no further questions arise; for
then the infringement is made out. When the two marks are not identical, the
plaintiff would have to establish that the mark used by the defendant so
nearly resembles the plaintiff's registered trade mark as is likely to deceive
or cause confusion and in relation to goods in respect of which it is
registered (vide Section 21). A point has sometimes been raised as to whether
the words "or cause confusion" introduce any element which is not already
covered by the words "likely to deceive" and it has sometimes been answered by
saying that it is merely an extension of the earlier test and does not add
very materially to the concept indicated by the earlier words "likely to
deceive". But this apart, as the question arises in an action for infringement
the onus would be on the plaintiff to establish that the trade mark used by
the defendant in the course, of trade in the goods in respect of which his
mark is registered, is deceptively similar. This has necessarily to be
ascertained by comparison of the two marks- the degree of resemblance which is
necessary to exist to cause deception not being capable of definition by
laying down objective standards, the persons who would be deceived are, of
course, the purchasers of the goods and it is a likelihood of their being
deceived that is the subject of consideration. The resemblance may be
phonetic, visual or in the basic idea represented by the plaintiff's mark. The
purpose of the comparison is for determining whether the essential features of
the plaintiff's trademark are to be found in that used by the defendant. The
identification of the essential features of the mark is in essence a question
of fact and depends on the judgment of the Court based on the evidence led
before it as regards the usage of the trade. It should, however, be borne in
mind that the object of the enquiry in ultimate analysis is whether the mark
used by the defendant as a whole is deceptively similar to that of the
registered mark of the plaintiff."
36\. The tests laid down in Re Pionotist Company Ltd., reported in 23 (1906)
RPC 774, 777, in determining deceptive similarity between words/marks in the
context of registration have been approved and applied in cases of
infringement by the Courts in India including the Supreme Court of India. The
tests laid down are as follows:
"You must take the two words. You must judge of them, both by their look and
by their sound. You must consider the goods to which they are to be applied.
You must consider the nature and kind of customer who would be likely to buy
those goods. In fact, you must consider all the surrounding circumstances; and
you must further consider what is likely to happen in each of those trademarks
is used in a normal way as a trademark of the goods of the respective owners
of the marks. If, considering all those circumstances, you come to the
conclusion that there will be a confusion, that is to say, not necessarily
that one man will be injured and the other will gain illicit benefit, but that
there will be a confusion in the mind of the public which will lead to
confusion in the goods - then you may refuse the registration, or rather you
must refuse the registration in that case."
37\. In Ruston and Hornby Limited v. Zamindara Engineering Company, (supra) a
t para 5, the Supreme Court observed that in an infringement action the issue
was as follows:
"(i) Where the infringing trade mark is not identical with the complaining
trade mark on the register, but something similar to it, the test of
infringement is the same as in an action for passing off ?
(ii) In a passing off action the issue is: Is the defendant selling goods so
marked as to be designed or calculated to lead purchasers to believe that they
are the plaintiffs goods ?
(iii) In an infringement action the issue is: Is the defendant using a mark
which is the same as or which is colourable limitation of the plaintiff's
registered trade mark?
(iv) The element of deception or confusion becomes irrelevant in the second
issue (as the same is implicit, inherent or presumed to be present)."
38\. The Supreme Court has accepted the principles as laid down in Aristoc
Ltd. v. Rysta Ltd. (supra), that while considering the resemblance between the
words it is necessary to apply both visual and phonetic tests as one was
likely to be mistaken for the other.
39\. The exposition of law as stated by Justice Lukmoore in the Court of
appeal which he accepted as would be clear from the following paragraph :
"The answer to the question whether the sound of one word resembles too nearly
the sound of another so as to bring the former within the limits of Section 12
of the Trade Marks Act, 1938, must nearly always depend on first impression,
for obviously a person who is familiar with both words will neither be
deceived nor confused. It is the person who only knows the one word and has
perhaps an imperfect recollection of it who is likely to be deceived or
confused. Little assistance, therefore, is to be obtained from a meticulous
comparison of the two words, letter by letter and syllable by syllable,
pronounced with the clarity to be expected from a teacher of elocution. The
Court must be careful to make allowance for imperfect recollection and the
effect of careless pronunciation and speech on the part not only of the person
seeking to buy under the trade description, but also of the shop assistant
ministering to that person's wants."
40\. Let me now examine the law as laid, down by the Courts in United Kingdom
in light of the plaintiffs' contention that Section 4(1)(b) of the 1938 Act
(U.K.) is to be read into the Indian Act of 1958.
41\. In Irving's Yeastvite v. Hosenail the House of Lords held that the
exclusive right of the proprietor to use a mark conferred by Section 39 of the
Trade Marks Act, 1905 had to be construed in the light of the definition of a
trade mark contained in Section 3 of that Act, being to indicate a commercial
connection with the goods. Accordingly only traditional acts or piracy were
covered, not comparative advertising. The 1938 Trade Marks Act in Section
4(1)(b) broadened the definition of trade mark infringement to include
"importing a reference" to a registered mark. It was confirmed in Bismag,
where the defendants produced a chart comparing products, that the new sub-
section did indeed prevent the use of a registered trade mark in comparative
advertising where such use obtained for the defendant a benefit from the
reputation enjoyed by the plaintiffs' goods. This remained the case until the
repeal of the 1938 Act. The difficulty of interpreting of Section 4(1) of the
U.K. Act of 1938 has been commented upon by the Courts in England. In the
Bismag case, the plaintiffs were the registered proprietors of the trade mark
"Bisurated for "medicinal stomachic powder for human use" and were selling
"Bisurated Magnesia powder". The defendants who were also selling medicinal
preparations issued advertisements comparing their "Bismuthated Magnesia
Tablets" with the plaintiffs "Bisurated Magnesia Tablets" as regards the
composition and price to show that the defendant's "Bismuthated Magnesia
Tablets" were the equivalent of and cheaper than the plaintiff's goods sold
under the trade mark "Bisurated". The trademark "Bisurated" was thus used only
in relation to the actual goods of the plaintiffs, and the use complained of
was in substance precisely the same as what was done by the defendant in the
Yeast-Vite case. Simonds, J. (as he then was) held that the defendant's use of
the trade mark "Bisurated'' was in relation to the plaintiff's own goods and
was not for the purpose of indicating origin of any goods in the defendant and
was, therefore, not an infringement under Section 4(1) of the U.K. Act of
1938.
42\. On appeal it was held by the majority of the Court of Appeal (Greene,
M.R. and Clauson, L.J. Mackinnon, L.J. dissenting) that the defendants' use of
the mark although not directed to indicate the origin of the defendant's
goods, was nevertheless such as to fall within the definition of infringement
in Clause (b) of Section 4(1) of the above Act. Referring to the language of
the section, Simonds, J. said that section is "couched in such difficult
language that one may well hesitate to say that it has any very clear
implication"; and, Lord Justice Mackinnon, who dissented, was even more
scathing and referred to it as "a maste-piece of obscurity", "the language of
dark and tortuous prolixity" and said, "I doubt if the entire Statute book
could be successfully searched for a sentence of equal length which is of more
fuliginous obsccurity". Lord Greene, M.R. said of the section: "It confers
upon the proprietor a novel type of monopoly for which no consideration is
given to the public" and described it as "a remarkable piece of legislation".
43\. The decision of the Court of Appeal was taken up on further appeal and it
was accepted by the Court of Appeal that if an action had been brought under
the law as it stood before the amendment incorporated in Section 4(1) the
action must have been failed on the authority of Yeast-Vite case but the House
of Lords in a subsequent case of Aristoc Ld. v. Rysta Ld. expressed a definite
preference for the dissenting view of Simonds, J. and Mackinnon, L.J. The law
as to statutory infringement under Section 4(1) of the present U.K. Act of
1938 is thus left in an unsatisfactory position as the House of Lords have not
in express terms over-ruled the Bismag case and there is some uncertainty as
to the scope of that section.
44\. The Statute law is now clear that in order to constitute infringement,
the defendant's use of the trade mark complained of must be use as a trade
mark, that is, to indicate the trade origin of goods in him. The registered
proprietor cannot stop the use of the mark in every case, but only the use as
a trade mark in relation to goods which are not his goods.
45\. The Bismag case has been subsequently dealt with by the Chancery Division
in a case reported in 1989 FSR at page No. 71 Duracell International Inc. and
Anr. v. Ever Ready Ltd. wherein the interlocutory injunction was refused by
distinguishing the Bismag case. The facts of the case are as follows:
"The parties were competitors in the manufacture and sale of batteries. The
plaintiffs complained that the defendants by means of "knocking" advertising
had infringed two of their trade marks and sought interlocutory relief to
restrain such advertisements.
There were two trade marks in issue, both in part A of the register. The first
mark consisted of the word DURACELL covering "...batteries.... for use in
hearing aids, transistor radios and in photographic equipment". The other
trade mark related to the get up of the plaintiff's batteries. This mark was
described as follows: "The trademark consists of the colours black and copper
applied to the whole surface of the side walls of electric batteries, as
represented in the form of application".
Two slightly different advertisements were complained of. Each advertisement
featured inter alia, (1) a monochrome photograph of a battery the top third of
which was in a light colour and the bottom two thirds in a dark colour, and
(2) the words; "In tests.... the gold seal LR20 battery outlasted the
equivalent sold by Duracell Batteries Limited in every single appliance".
Duracell Batteries Ltd. were the second plaintiffs and owners of the marks in
issue.
The plaintiffs contended first that the vise of the word DURACELL in the
corporate name of Duracell Batteries Limited in the above sentence,
represented an infringing use of the trade mark. They further contended that
the monochrome photograph was intended to invoke in the readers' mind the
plaintiff's batteries with their copper and lack coloring and was thus an
infringing use of the get-up mark."
46\. Taking the advertisement as a whole the Chancery Division has come to the
following conclusion:
"Held (1) taking the advertisements as a whole, it was clear that the public
who saw the monochrome photograph were intended to suppose that they were
looking at a photograph of a battery of the plaintiffs.
(2) The defendants' advertisement identified the plaintiffs' batteries by
reference to the corporate name of the second plaintiff. This name contained
the registered trade mark. The defendant was therefore using the mark,
together with the other words, in order to identify the plaintiffs' goods.
(3) On the question of infringement by use of the mark DURACELL there was
clearly an issue to go to trial. Neither party had satisfied the Court that it
had an unanswerable case.
Bismag v. Amblins (Chemists) Ltd., (1940) 57 R.P.C. 209 and Pompadour
Laboratories Ltd. v. Frazer, (1966) R.P.C. 7, considered.
(4) As to the get-up mark, unless there is a resemblance between an allegedly
infringing mark and the registered mark, the question as to whether it is a
resemblance so near as to cause confusion does not arise. A monochrome
photograph did not bear a resemblance to the registered mark in a case where
the registered mark consists of nothing but two colours with a design as
simple as the get-up of the plaintiffs' batteries. It was impossible to tell
from the photograph what colours were photographed. Accordingly, infringement
of the get-up mark had not been established to the extent required to found
any interlocutory relief.
(5) The words used in the description of goods for which the word mark was
registered ("...batteries.... all for use in hearing aids etc...") meant that
the batteries in question had to be suitable for use in one or other of those
appliances.
(6) As a matter of discretion, interlocutory relief would be refused.
Observed: "My inclination is to recoil from the suggestion that use of a name
as part of a corporate title can be infringement of a trade mark. But common
sense is not are liable guide in construing a section as difficult as Section
4(1)(b) of the Trade Marks Act, 1938 and moreover the common sense of one
Judge is not always the same common sense as that which appeals to others."
47\. Coming to the present case the following are the relevant points to
mention here:
(a) That the defendants have not used the trade mark PAPPI and device on their
products in the course of their trade nor in relation to any goods in respect
of which the trade mark is registered.
     (b)     That the defendants have not sold their merchandise goods under the trade mark of the plaintiffs. 
     (c)     That the defendants have not advertised their products under the
    plaintiffs' trade mark. 
     (d)     It is not disputed that comparative advertisements are permissible in
    law.  
48\. The expression "in relation to any goods in respect of which the trade
mark is registered" in Section 29(1) makes it clear that there is no
infringement of a mark unless the infringer uses the mark in relation to same
goods covered by the registration.
49\. It is fundamental principle of trade mark law that the function of a
trade mark is to indicate the origin of the goods to which it is applied. The
expression "in the course of trade" has a definite connotation. In order to
constitute infringement, the use complained of must be a use in the course of
trade. The defendants must be 'dealing or selling of in some other way trading
in the goods bearing the offending mark. Possession of such goods for the
purpose of comparison will not amount to infringement. The right conferred by
registration is a right to use the mark in the course of trade and obviously
this right is infringed only when the infringer also uses the mark in the
course of trade. The use "in the course of trade" means in the course of
business. It did not mean use as a trademark. The purpose for which the mark
was applied will not prevent it constituting an infringement provided it was
used in the course of trade and was capable of indicating a connection in the
course of trade between the goods and the proprietor of the registered trade
mark.
50\. In view of the above it is clear that the language of Section 4(b) of the
Trade Mark Act, 1938 (UK) is not embodied in Section 29 of the present Act
which is applicable in India i.e. Trade and Merchandise Marks Act, 1958.
Although Section 2(2)(a) and (b) has the similar language of Section 69(2) of
the U.K. Act.
51\. I am afraid that if the interpretation which is sought to be given is
accepted, it will travel beyond the scope of the Section 29 and go contrary to
the intention of the Legislature. In view of the aforesaid reasons, the
decisions cited by the plaintiffs are not applicable in the facts of the
present case.
52\. I am unable to persuade myself to accept the submission that the
defendants have infringed the trade mark of the plaintiffs.
53\. The next question that arises for consideration is whether the defendants
infringed the copyright of the plaintiffs in the work YEH DIL MANGE MORE
(phrase and song) and the Globe Device.
54\. In terms of provisions of Copyright Act, the grant of registration is
prima facie evidence of the copyright and the ownership of plaintiff No. 3.
The plaintiffs claim that the phrase YEH DIL MANGE MORE is original literary
work and is protected as such under the Copyright Act and also as a trade
mark. The said phrase has become distinctive with the plaintiffs. It is
claimed that it is rare combination of words adopted by the plaintiffs for
promotion of their products in India. Large sums of money have been spent on
the campaign of YEH DIL MANGE MORE for over two years. It is the exclusive
work of the plaintiffs and also their trade mark. The registration of
copyright is prima-facie evidence of copyright. The advertising campaigns
including slogans are protectable under the law of copyright and the law of
trade mark.
55\. Reliance was placed on the judgment of Supreme Court in State of A.P. v.
Nagoti Venkataraman, , wherein the Supreme Court has held that once the
entries have been made by the operation of Section 48, the entries in the
register of copyright shall be prima facie evidence of the copyright and the
entries therein are conclusive without proof of the original copyright.
56\. Reliance was also placed on a decision of Privy Council in MacMillan &
Company v. K.J. Cooper, (AIR) 1924 Privy Council, 1975 wherein the test of
what is "original" is laid down. The relevant paragraph/finding is reproduced
as under:
"The word 'original' does not mean that the work must be the expression of
original or inventive thought. Copyright Acts are not concerned with the
origin of ideas but with the expression of through; and in the case of
"literary work' with the expression of through in print or writing. The
originality which is required relates to the through; but the act does not
require that the expression must be in an original or novel form, but that the
work must not be copied from another work -- that it should originate from the
author."
57\. Further reliance was placed on the passage from McCarthy on Trade Marks
and Unfair Competition, 3rd edition, to the effect that "However, the theme of
an advertisement is copyrigh table if it embodies some definite concrete
elements beyond a mere idea or concept".
58\. The plaintiffs also placed reliance on NIMMER on Copyright Vol. 1, 1996
to the effect that "Thus it is arguable that the exclusivity of the copyright
in the words as a literary work is not lost by merging the words with music in
to a collective work compilation known as a musical work".
59\. The plaintiffs claim to be owner of the copyright in the Globe Device. It
is sufficient for the plaintiffs to show that the device belongs to the
plaintiffs to entitle them to get injunction. The above Globe Device is
claimed to be original artistic work under the Copyright Act, 1957. The use of
the device or any other similar device would constitute infringement of
copyright. The Globe Device is stated to have been developed internationally
by the plaintiffs and at the prima-facie stage it is sufficient to show that
the device belongs to the plaintiffs.
60\. Reliance was also placed on a decision of this Court in Anglo Dutch Paint
Colour & Varnish Works v. India Trading House, .
61\. To sum up the plaintiffs contended that it is entitled to copyright
protection in respect of the Globe Device and the phrase YEH DIL MANGE MORE.
62\. The defendants submitted that there was no presumption on the ownership
of the Globe Device infavor of the plaintiffs merely because the work is a
registered trade mark. The plaintiffs cannot claim any right to copyright in
the circular device.
The claim is vague and the plaintiffs are not entitled to any protection under
the Copyright Act in respect of the Globe Device. They deny that the circular
device used by the defendants is an identical or substantial imitation of the
Globe Device of the plaintiffs.
63\. The defendants further contended that mere advertising slogans are not
literary work within the meaning of the Copyright Act and therefore, enjoy no
protection. Reliance was placed on Sinanide v. La Maison Kosmeo, 139 The Law
Times 365, 367; Kirk v. J & R Fleming Limited, 1929 Ch.D. 44, 50, and Francis
Dey & Hunter Limited v. Twentieth Century Fox Corporation Limited, 1940 AC
page 112.
64\. Reliance was placed on para 2-10 of Copriger on Copyright, 13th Edition,
page 23 to the effect that "On the grounds of triviality, that there is no
copyright in the advertisement slogan 'youtful appearances are social
necessities, not luxuries', nor in the stringing together, for advertisement
purposes, of a number of commonplace sentences".
65\. Reliance was also placed on para 3.80 pf Narayanan on copyright, page 42,
to the effect that "Advertisement Slogans are not literary works". Reference
was also made to Iyengar on Copyright page 94 to the effect that "In common
place or trivial works there is no literary merit - even as understood in the
Act". (Page 99) "mere advertising slogans are not literary works".
66\. It was further contended that the Globe Device was not a registered trade
mark in India. There could be no presumption of ownership in the Globe Device.
The plaintiffs did not cite any case law to entitle them protection in the
Globe Device. The advertising slogans were not literary work and were not the
subject of copyright. It could only arise in very exceptional cases. The
slogan was unintelligible and did not qualify as a literary work within the
meaning of the Copyright Act.
67\. In order to appreciate the case of the plaintiffs the following are the
definitions of "artistic work" as well as "literary work" and meaning of
copyright under the Copyright Act, 1957-
"Section 2(c): "artistic work" means-
(i) a painting, a sculpture, a drawing (including a diagram, map, chart or
plan), an engraving or a photograph, whether or not any such work possesses
artistic quality;
     (ii)     a work of architecture; and  
     (iii)    any other work of artistic craftsmanship;"  
     Section 2(o): "literary work" includes computer programmes, tables and compilations including computer (databases),"   
68\. On a mere reading of the definition of Section 2(o) of the literary work
it is doubtful as to whether slogans are subject matter of work and are
covered under the said definition. In Copinger & Skone James on Copyright 14th
Edition, Volume One, para 21.20 and para 21.35 are reproduced below:
"21.20 No copyright in titles. The titles of books, newspapers, periodicals
and other copyright works are not generally in themselves the subject of
copyright. The reason is that there is usually no original literary work in
the formation of several ordinary words into a title. The words or phrases
chosen may be original in their application to the subject-matter of the work,
and may require much skill and judgment to produce. However, that skill and
judgment is generally employed in choosing and selecting from common words and
phrases, and not in putting together words in an original form, or in
affording to others information, instruction, or pleasure. Where as will
usually be the case, the title forms part of a larger work or compilation, the
copying of the title will rarely, if ever amount to the taking of a
substantial part."
21.35. Although the task of devising advertising slogans often requires a high
level of skill and judgment as with titles, they will usually not qualify for
copyright protection as original literary works. However, the value of an
advertising slogan lies in its roll in generating additional goodwill for a
product or service and in acting as a badge or vehicle for that goodwill and,
in appropriate circumstances, a slogan may be protected as part of that
goodwill. Thus, passing off is not limited to names but is wide enough to
encompass other descriptive material, such as slogans or visual images, which
radio, television or newspaper advertising campaigns can lead the market to
associate with a plaintiff's product, provided always that such descriptive
material has become part of the goodwill of the product. The test is whether
the product has derived from the advertising a distinctive character which the
market recognises. In most cases, plaintiffs have failed to establish that
their slogan is distinctive. It may be, of course, that the defendant's
advertisement as a whole is deceptive."
69\. It is settled law that where copyright is claimed in a literary work, the
same must be established independently of any registration. Registration under
the Copyright Act does not create any statutory right. It is only a recordal
of an existing copyright. It has been held in Camlin Pvt. Limited v. National
Pencil Industries, 2nd 1985 (II) Delhi 813, 829, that certificate/registration
under the Copyright Act is only prima facie evidence of entries in the
copyright register. It does not however establish that what is registered is
in fact and in law copyrightable subject matter.
70\. In view of the aforesaid it appears that the advertising slogans are
prima-facie not protectable under the Copyright Act. They may be protected
under the law of passing off in case the plaintiffs make out such a case.
71\. However, it is admitted position that defendants have not used the
phrase/slogan YEH DIL MANGE MORE in relation to their products, It is used in
a mocking manner only in the course of comparative advertising. This itself
would not prima facie amount to infringement of copyright.
72\. The plaintiffs designed a television commercial called the Roller Coaster
Commercial. The commercial was commissioned by plaintiff No. 1 and was
designed in Paris in June, 2000. The Indian Version of this commercial was
launched in February, 2001. The defendants launched its Sprite Commercial on
21st March, 2001 and it is stated that it is a copy of the plaintiffs
commercial. The defendants' use of all the elements of plaintiffs commercial
for promoting their products constitute violation and infringement of the
plaintiffs copyright.
73\. The defendants submit that from the reading of Section 14 it is clear
that the act of infringement of cinematograph film is committed only if the
defendants making a copy of the film unlike in respect of other literary work
where adaption or reproduction or the work amounts to infringement.
74\. Learned Counsel placed reliance of Supreme Court , in R.G. Anand v. Delux
Films. As regards other features and picture of Roller Coaster are concerned,
it appears that the defendants have taken the idea by comparing their
advertisement with the plaintiffs' advertisement on television for comparison
purposes. There is no copyright on ideas, In this regard see R.G. Anand v.
Delux Films and Ors., (supra) relevant portion of which is reproduced
hereinbelow:
"There can be no copyright in an idea, subject-matter, themes, plots or
historical or legendary facts and violation of the copyright in such cases is
confined to the form, manner and arrangement and expression of the idea by the
author of the copyright work."
"Where the same idea is being developed in a different manner, it is manifest
that the source being common, similarities are bound to occur. In such a case
the Courts should determine whether or not the similarities are on fundamental
or substantial aspects of the mode of expression adopted in the copyrighted
work. If the defendant's work is nothing but a literal imitation of the
copyrighted work with some variations here and there it would amount to
violation of the copyright. In other words, in order to be actionable the copy
must be a substantial and material one which at once leads to the conclusion
that the defendant is guilty of an act of piracy.
One of the surest and the safest test to determine whether or not there has
been a violation of copyright is to see if the reader, spectator or the viewer
after having read or seen both the works is clearly of the opinion and gets an
unmistakable impression that the subsequent work appears to be a copy of the
original.
Where the theme is the same but is presented and treated differently so that
the subsequent work becomes a completely new work, no question of violation of
copyright arises.
Where, however, apart from the similarities appearing in the two works there
are also material and broad dissimilarities which negative the intention to
copy the original and the coincidence appearing in the two works are clearly
incidental no infringement of the copyright comes into existence."
75\. The Court in the aforesaid decision held that one of the surest and the
safest test to determine whether or not there has been a violation of
copyright is to see if the reader, spectator or the viewer after having read
or seen both the works is clearly of the opinion and gets an unmistakable
impression that the subsequent work appears to be a copy of the original.
76\. Applying the principles, mentioned it is clear that the plaintiffs cannot
claim the injunction against the defendants on these features for the purpose
of comparative advertisement of their products.
77\. The plaintiffs contend that the television commercials of the defendants
disparage and denigrate the plaintiffs products. The plaintiffs contend that
advertisement No. 1 is aimed at showing kids' preference changing from Pepsi
to Thums up and Pepsi is described as Bachhon Wali drink and thums up is for
grown ups. In advertisement No. 2 Pepsi is mouthed and the phrase YEH DIL
MANGE MORE in a mocking and sarcastic way. The covered drink is described as a
sweet drink called Bachhon Wala and the bottle when revealed Globe Device and
mark PAPPI. In advertisement Nos. 3 and 4, the drink which resembles Pepsi and
is referred to as PAPPI is termed as Bachhon Wali. Thums up is referred to
Baroh Ke Liye and Damdar Hai. All these commercials according to the
plaintiffs disparage and denigrate the products of the plaintiffs and
therefore, plaintiffs are entitled to injunction.
78\. From a viewing of these commercial it is evident that defendants are
making a comparison with the plaintiffs Cola.
79\. Disparagement is defined in the Webster's dictionary as an act of
depreciating aspersing slighting or under valuing derogation;... An unjust
classing or comparison with that which is of less worth; degradation. Oxford
dictionary defines disparagement as "bring discrediton; speak slightingly of,
depreciate". Black's Law Dictionary defines disparagement of goods as "A
statement about competitors goods which is untrue or misleading and is made to
influence or tends to influence the public not to buy". Disparagement in The
Chambers Dictionary means to dishonour by comparison with what is inferior; to
talk slightingly of, to belittle".
80\. In Reckitt & Colman India Ltd. v. M.S. Ramachandran and Anr., reported in
1999 PTC 741, while dealing with disparagement, the Court laid down 5
principles to decide whether a party is entitle to an injunction. The main
principles are:
     (I)     A tradesman is entitled to declare his goods to be best in the words, even though the declaration is untrue. 
     (II)    He can also say that my goods are better than his competitors', even though such statement is untrue. 
(III) For the purpose of saying that his goods are the best in the world or
his goods are better than his competitors' he can even compare the advantages
of his goods over the goods of others.
(IV) He, however, cannot while saying his goods are better than his
competitors', say that his competitors' goods are bad. If he says so, he
really slanders the goods of his competitors. In other words he defames his
competitors and their goods, which is not permissible.
(V) If there is no defamation to the goods or to the manufacturer of such
goods no action lies, but if there is such defamation an action lies and if an
action lies for recovery of damages for defamation, then the Court is also
competent to grant an order to injunction restraining repetition of such
defamation."
81\. The Court held, in the above case, that comparative advertisements were
admissible. However, the advertisement should not be in such a manner as to
disparage the goods of the competitor. Mere puffing of a goods without
disparagement is not actionable. The advertisements must be viewed in light of
the aforesaid tests.
82\. In order to decide the question of disparagement the Court has to come to
the conclusion as to how many customers so would be influenced by
advertisement material into not purchasing a particular product instead of
purchasing the rival product. Secondly, the prayer of damages is sought in
respect of said comparative advertisement in the contest of the continuing
marketing wall between two companies, one had to ask whether any substantial
damages could properly be attributed to a particular comparative advertising
and, if so, how this could be proved and damages assessed. It is well known
law that merely puffing is not dishonest and mere 'poking fun' at a competitor
is a normal practice of comparative advertising and is acceptable in the
market. The comparative advertising is a part of people's nature, everyone
starts very young. They compare everything from their teams to their toys, and
most everything in between. It is fun and can be informative. Some of the most
effective advertising is comparative, but it is not without its risks.
83\. Effective advertising delivers a message that it remembered. It can
change the way the world views a product or service and can generate sales. If
the market for a service or product is well-defined, comparative advertising
can held the product or service distinguish itself from the competition.
Nothing seems to do this more efficiently than comparative advertising.
84\. In order to succeed in an action, the plaintiffs have to establish the
following key elements:
     (1)     A false or misleading statement of fact about a product. 
     (2)     That statement either deceived, or had the capacity to deceive,  substantial segment of potential consumer, and  
     (3)     The deception was material, in that it was likely to influence consumers' purchasing decisions.  
     85. To suggest that the drink is liked by children and to say that Pepsi is a sweet
    drink but not a strong drink, is hardly disparaging. To say that adults prefer Thums
    Up and Pepsi is a sweet drink and not a strong drink even though not true would
    not be disparagement. In the Roller Coaster Commercial the frame where it is stated
    "Be cool not a fool" also does not denigrate or disparage the goods of the plaintiffs.
In the Pepsi commercial the boy spills the drink while telling the time to a
pretty girl wherein the Sprite add the boy merely transfer the glass from one
hand to other hand.
86\. The advertisements are to be viewed in light of the law laid down in 1996
PTC 393 approving the judgment of the Calcutta High Court in 1999 PTC 741. In
White v. Mellin, 1895 A.C. 154, 165, the Court while rejecting the contention
of disparagement observed as under:
"If on action will not lie because a man says that his goods are better than
his neighbour's, it seems to me impossible to say that it will lie because he
says that they are better in this or that or the other respect. Just consider
what a door would be opened if this were permitted. That this sort of puffing
advertisement is in use is notorious; and we see rival cures advertised for
particular ailments. The Court would then be bound to inquire, in an action
brought, whether this ointment or this pill better cured the disease which it
was alleged to cure -whether a particular article of food was in this respect
or that better than another. Indeed, the Courts of law would be turned into a
machinery for advertising rival productions by obtaining a judicial
determination which of the two was the better."
87\. In the commercials in question both these elements are missing. The
intention of the defendants are not to deceive the plaintiffs because no false
representation is made. The defendants have compared the two drinks and
explained to the consumers that one drink is strong and the other drink is
sweet and the children like the sweet taste. In the end the choice is left
with the consumers. Of course, an attempt is made to distinguish the taste of
both the drinks but without deceiving and causing confusion. The attempt was
to puff up its product only. Prima-facie no case is made out for disparagement
and the defendants are not passing off their goods as those of the plaintiffs.
88\. It is an undisputed fact that the plaintiffs have filed a suit for
damages also. So far no evidence has been produced by either side regarding
the similarity and dissimilarity of the comparative advertisement given by the
defendants. There is no material on record to show that the advertisement
given by the defendants harmed the business of the plaintiffs or the goods of
the plaintiffs are bad or in any way the defendants have defamed the business
of the plaintiffs. It is also a matter of fact that the defendants are selling
their products under their own brand name and they are not advertising
objectionable features in the literature form.
89\. The plaintiffs contended that a viewer can be confused into believing
that the commercial of the defendants is for the product of the plaintiffs and
not the defendants, and that by reason of conduct of the defendants, the
viewer who expects to see the advertisement of the plaintiffs ends up by
watching the advertisement of the defendants.
90\. It is settled law that passing off is an action of deceit where the
defendant attempts to pass off, his goods as those of the plaintiff's. In
Advocaat's case Lord Diplock laid down the characteristics for a valid cause
of action in passing off namely there must be a misrepresentation made in the
course of trade to prospective customers of his or ultimate consumers of goods
or services supplied by him which is calculated to injure the business or
goodwill of another trader and which causes actual damage to the business or
goodwill of the trader by whom the action is brought.
91\. The question now is as to whether at this stage the interlocutory
injunction should be granted or refused.
92\. In a well known judgment reported in American Cyanamid v. Ethicon Ltd.,
(1975) (1) All E.R. 504, wherein the words of Lord Diplock are worth
recalling:
"My Lords, when an application for an interlocutory injunction to restrain a
defendant from doing acts alleged to be in violation of the plaintiff's legal
right is made on contested fact, the decision whether or not to grant an
interlocutory injunction has to be taken at a time when exhypothesi the
existence of the right or the violation of it, or both, is uncertain and will
remain uncertain until final judgment is given in the action. It was to
mitigate the risk of injustice until final judgment is given in the action. It
was to mitigate the risk of injustice to the plaintiff during the period
before the uncertainty could be resolved that the practice arose of granting
him relief by way of interlocutory injunction; but since the middle of the
19th century this has been made subject to his undertaking to pay damages to
the defendant for any loss sustained by reason of the injunction if it should
be held at the trial that the plaintiff had not been entitled to restrain the
defendant from doing what he was threatening to....."
"it is no part of the Court's function at this stage of the litigation to try
to resolve conflicts of evidence on affidavit as to facts on which the claims
of either party may ultimately depend nor to decide difficult questions of law
which call for detailed argument and mature consideration. These are matters
to be dealt with at the trial. One of the reasons for the introduction of the
practice of requiring an undertaking as to damages on the grant of an
interlocutory injunction was that "it aided the Court in doing that which from
its great object, viz. abstaining from expressing any opinion upon the merits
of the case until the hearing" (Wakefield v. Duke of...").
" ...... If damages is the measure recoverable at common law would be adequate
remedy and the defendant would be in a financial position to pay them, no
interlocutory injunction should normally be granted, however, strong the
plaintiff's claim appeared to be at that stage...."
93\. It is undisputed fact that the defendants are multi-national companies
and they are having a huge business all over the world and they are capable of
paying the damages in case the suit of the plaintiffs is decreed after leading
the evidence of the parties.
94\. The Delhi High Court in Franz Xaver Huemer v. New Yash Engineers, , while
considering grant of temporary injunction in intellectual property matters and
while dealing with prima facie case and balance of convenience observed as
under:
"The need to establish prima facie has been emphasized in recent cases in
England and in India. The Court has to consider whether there is prima facie
proof of infringement (Lord Denning M.R. & Megaw LJ Hubbard v. Vosper, (1972)
1 All ER 1023. Prima facie proof of validity is different from prima facie
proof of infringement as stated by Sultan Singh, J. in NRDC Co. v. DCM Ltd.,
AIR 1980 Delhi 132. In that case, the learned Judge quoted Terrel on the law
of Patents (12th Ed. para 830): (at p. 135 of AIR):
"The plaintiff must first establish such facts as will satisfy the Court that
there are strong prima facie reasons for acting on the supposition that the
patent is valid. The most cogent evidence for this purpose is either that
there has been a previous trial in which the patent has been held to be valid,
or that the patentee has worked and enjoyed the patent for many years without
dispute or may be that as between the parties the plaintiff is relieved from
the onus of establishing validity, as where the defendant has admitted it or
is so placed in his relationship to the plaintiff as to be estopped from
denying it.
In Surendra Lal Mahendra Jain v. Galazers, 1981 PTC 112 (117) it was held that
a prima facie case about the existence of the monopoly right and its
infringement must be established. (See also Ram Narain Kher v. Ambassador
Industries, ).
"Balance of convenience has also an important role to play. Stultification of
defendants investment, loss of employment, public interest in the product
(such a life saving drug), product quality coupled with price, or the
defendant being smaller in size, may go against the plaintiff. Cases of a
'Bridgehead (only a short period to go before expiry of planitiff's patent),
parties being of equal size, may go infavor of plaintiff. Case of snowball
(more future infringements) may not till the balance in favor of plaintiff.
(See Halsbury's Laws of England, 4th Ed, Vol. 35, para 623). Again, even delay
of a few months in some cases has led to refusal of injunction. In Minnesota
Mining & Manufactory v. Johnson & Johnson, 1971 FSR-Suppl (1) at 623, the
delay was seven months and injunction was refused.
95\. In light of the aforesaid discussion, I am of the view that plaintiffs do
not make out a prima facie case for grant of an interim injunction. The
balance of convenience is also against grant of any interlocutory injunction.
96\. It is a unique case of its own kind and the issues that arise there from
are be decided on the basis of evidence of the parties. Having arrived at a
prima facie opinion, it would be in the interest of justice requiring the
defendants to give an undertaking to pay damages, if at the final stage and
after detailed evidence and arguments and mature consideration of the facts,
the plaintiffs succeed in the suit.
97\. Having regard to the facts and circumstances of the case and in light of
the foregoing discussion, I do not think it appropriate to grant temporary
injunction in favor of the plaintiffs as sought for in the present
application. The application is accordingly dismissed, subject to the
condition that the defendants shall furnish an undertaking to pay damages to
the plaintiffs within four weeks of the decision of the suit in favor of the
plaintiffs and against the defendants. No order as to costs.
Any opinion expressed in this order will not in any manner affect the merits
of the suit.
S. No. 635/2001:
98\. List before an appropriate Bench on 3rd October, 2001, as per roster.
95\. In light of the aforesaid discussion, I am of the view that plaintiffs do
not make out a prima facie case for grant of an interim injunction. The
balance of convenience is also against grant of any interlocutory injunction.
96\. It is a unique case of its own kind and the issues that arise there from
are be decided on the basis of evidence of the parties. Having arrived at a
prima facie opinion, it would be in the interest of justice requiring the
defendants to give an undertaking to pay damages, if at the final stage and
after detailed evidence and arguments and mature consideration of the facts,
the plaintiffs succeed in the suit.
97\. Having regard to the facts and circumstances of the case and in light of
the foregoing discussion, I do not think it appropriate to grant temporary
injunction in favor of the plaintiffs as sought for in the present
application. The application is accordingly dismissed, subject to the
condition that the defendants shall furnish an undertaking to pay damages to
the plaintiffs within four weeks of the decision of the suit in favor of the
plaintiffs and against the defendants. No order as to costs.
reputation.
2\. The multi-national giants namely Pepsico Inc and Ors. and Hindustan Coca
Cola and another are at war again on the economic plane in a bid to dominate
the soft drink market, There is long history of trade rivalry between these
two multinational Corporations.
3\. Another round of litigation has commenced between these two multinational
Corporations and this time in the field of comparative advertising. The
commercials by the defendants for its products have been objected to by the
plaintiffs on the grounds of infringement of their rights under the trademark
and Copyright Act and on the ground of disparagement.
4\. The plaintiffs claim to be the registered owners of the mark PEPSI, PEPSI
COLA and Globe Device.
The details of registration are as under:
The details of registration are as under :
The details of registration are as under :
    Trade Mark             Registration No.        Class          Date
    PEPSI-COLA            81553                 32           11.6.1943
    PEPSI                      173280                32           21.2.1956
    PEPSI                      417908                32           18.2.1984
    PEPSI-COLA                 417909                32       18.2.1984
95\. In light of the aforesaid discussion, I am of the view that plaintiffs do
not make out a prima facie case for grant of an interim injunction. The
balance of convenience is also against grant of any interlocutory injunction.
96\. It is a unique case of its own kind and the issues that arise there from
are be decided on the basis of evidence of the parties. Having arrived at a
prima facie opinion, it would be in the interest of justice requiring the
defendants to give an undertaking to pay damages, if at the final stage and
after detailed evidence and arguments and mature consideration of the facts,
the plaintiffs succeed in the suit.
97\. Having regard to the facts and circumstances of the case and in light of
the foregoing discussion, I do not think it appropriate to grant temporary
injunction in favor of the plaintiffs as sought for in the present
application. The application is accordingly dismissed, subject to the
condition that the defendants shall furnish an undertaking to pay damages to
the plaintiffs within four weeks of the decision of the suit in favor of the
plaintiffs and against the defendants. No order as to costs.
reputation.
2\. The multi-national giants namely Pepsico Inc and Ors. and Hindustan Coca
Cola and another are at war again on the economic plane in a bid to dominate
the soft drink market, There is long history of trade rivalry between these
two multinational Corporations.
3\. Another round of litigation has commenced between these two multinational
Corporations and this time in the field of comparative advertising. The
commercials by the defendants for its products have been objected to by the
plaintiffs on the grounds of infringement of their rights under the trademark
and Copyright Act and on the ground of disparagement.
4\. The plaintiffs claim to be the registered owners of the mark PEPSI, PEPSI
COLA and Globe Device.
The details of registration are as under:
The details of registration are as under :
The details of registration are as under :
    Trade Mark             Registration No.        Class          Date
    PEPSI-COLA            81553                 32           11.6.1943
    PEPSI                      173280                32           21.2.1956
    PEPSI                      417908                32           18.2.1984
    PEPSI-COLA                 417909                32       18.2.1984
95\. In light of the aforesaid discussion, I am of the view that plaintiffs do
not make out a prima facie case for grant of an interim injunction. The
balance of convenience is also against grant of any interlocutory injunction.
96\. It is a unique case of its own kind and the issues that arise there from
are be decided on the basis of evidence of the parties. Having arrived at a
prima facie opinion, it would be in the interest of justice requiring the
defendants to give an undertaking to pay damages, if at the final stage and
after detailed evidence and arguments and mature consideration of the facts,
the plaintiffs succeed in the suit.
97\. Having regard to the facts and circumstances of the case and in light of
the foregoing discussion, I do not think it appropriate to grant temporary
injunction in favor of the plaintiffs as sought for in the present
application. The application is accordingly dismissed, subject to the
condition that the defendants shall furnish an undertaking to pay damages to
the plaintiffs within four weeks of the decision of the suit in favor of the
plaintiffs and against the defendants. No order as to costs.
reputation.
2\. The multi-national giants namely Pepsico Inc and Ors. and Hindustan Coca
Cola and another are at war again on the economic plane in a bid to dominate
the soft drink market, There is long history of trade rivalry between these
two multinational Corporations.
3\. Another round of litigation has commenced between these two multinational
Corporations and this time in the field of comparative advertising. The
commercials by the defendants for its products have been objected to by the
plaintiffs on the grounds of infringement of their rights under the trademark
and Copyright Act and on the ground of disparagement.
4\. The plaintiffs claim to be the registered owners of the mark PEPSI, PEPSI
COLA and Globe Device.
The details of registration are as under:
The details of registration are as under :
The details of registration are as under :
    Trade Mark             Registration No.        Class          Date
    PEPSI-COLA            81553                 32           11.6.1943
    PEPSI                      173280                32           21.2.1956
    PEPSI                      417908                32           18.2.1984
    PEPSI-COLA                 417909                32       18.2.1984
    Globe Device +            417911          32           18.2.1984
    Pepsi Cola   
    Globe Device +             417910                32           18.2.1984
    Pepsi   
    Globe Device               563981                32           18.12.1991
    Globe Device +             563997          32           18.12.1991
    Three Field 
    Device + Pepsi
    Light.   
    Applications due to be registered  
    Globe + Three              563995                32           18.12.1991
95\. In light of the aforesaid discussion, I am of the view that plaintiffs do
not make out a prima facie case for grant of an interim injunction. The
balance of convenience is also against grant of any interlocutory injunction.
96\. It is a unique case of its own kind and the issues that arise there from
are be decided on the basis of evidence of the parties. Having arrived at a
prima facie opinion, it would be in the interest of justice requiring the
defendants to give an undertaking to pay damages, if at the final stage and
after detailed evidence and arguments and mature consideration of the facts,
the plaintiffs succeed in the suit.
97\. Having regard to the facts and circumstances of the case and in light of
the foregoing discussion, I do not think it appropriate to grant temporary
injunction in favor of the plaintiffs as sought for in the present
application. The application is accordingly dismissed, subject to the
condition that the defendants shall furnish an undertaking to pay damages to
the plaintiffs within four weeks of the decision of the suit in favor of the
plaintiffs and against the defendants. No order as to costs.
reputation.
2\. The multi-national giants namely Pepsico Inc and Ors. and Hindustan Coca
Cola and another are at war again on the economic plane in a bid to dominate
the soft drink market, There is long history of trade rivalry between these
two multinational Corporations.
3\. Another round of litigation has commenced between these two multinational
Corporations and this time in the field of comparative advertising. The
commercials by the defendants for its products have been objected to by the
plaintiffs on the grounds of infringement of their rights under the trademark
and Copyright Act and on the ground of disparagement.
4\. The plaintiffs claim to be the registered owners of the mark PEPSI, PEPSI
COLA and Globe Device.
The details of registration are as under:
The details of registration are as under :
The details of registration are as under :
    Trade Mark             Registration No.        Class          Date
    PEPSI-COLA            81553                 32           11.6.1943
    PEPSI                      173280                32           21.2.1956
    PEPSI                      417908                32           18.2.1984
    PEPSI-COLA                 417909                32       18.2.1984
    Globe Device +            417911          32           18.2.1984
    Pepsi Cola   
    Globe Device +             417910                32           18.2.1984
    Pepsi   
    Globe Device               563981                32           18.12.1991
    Globe Device +             563997          32           18.12.1991
    Three Field 
    Device + Pepsi
    Light.   
    Applications due to be registered  
    Globe + Three              563995                32           18.12.1991
95\. In light of the aforesaid discussion, I am of the view that plaintiffs do
not make out a prima facie case for grant of an interim injunction. The
balance of convenience is also against grant of any interlocutory injunction.
96\. It is a unique case of its own kind and the issues that arise there from
are be decided on the basis of evidence of the parties. Having arrived at a
prima facie opinion, it would be in the interest of justice requiring the
defendants to give an undertaking to pay damages, if at the final stage and
after detailed evidence and arguments and mature consideration of the facts,
the plaintiffs succeed in the suit.
97\. Having regard to the facts and circumstances of the case and in light of
the foregoing discussion, I do not think it appropriate to grant temporary
injunction in favor of the plaintiffs as sought for in the present
application. The application is accordingly dismissed, subject to the
condition that the defendants shall furnish an undertaking to pay damages to
the plaintiffs within four weeks of the decision of the suit in favor of the
plaintiffs and against the defendants. No order as to costs.
