Competition Commission of India
Surendra Prasad vs Maharashtra State Power ... on 10 January, 2018
                   COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA
                               Case No. 61 of 2013
    In Re:
    Surendra Prasad                                            Informant
    And
    1. Maharashtra State Power Generation Co. Ltd.   Opposite Party No. 1
    2. Nair Coal Services Pvt. Ltd.                  Opposite Party No. 2
    3. Karam Chand Thapar & Bros (CS) Ltd.           Opposite Party No. 3
    4. Naresh Kumar & Co. Pvt. Ltd.                  Opposite Party No. 4
    CORAM
    Mr. Devender Kumar Sikri
    Chairperson
    Mr. S. L. Bunker
    Member
    Mr. Sudhir Mital
    Member
    Mr. Augustine Peter
    Member
the witnesses. It was stated in the application that the learned counsel
appearing on behalf of the Informant alleged during the said proceedings that
the Commission had already made up its mind to allow cross-examination of the
witnesses even before the application for the same was filed. The Commission,
vide its order dated 07.03.2017, decided to examine the allegations during the
final hearing in the matter. However, the said application was not pressed or
argued by OP-2 during final hearing and, as such, the Commission does not want
to hold any further inquiry in this regard and the same stands disposed of as
not pressed.
Case No. 61 of 2013 58
153\. The Secretary is directed to communicate to the concerned parties
accordingly.
Sd/-
(Devender Kumar Sikri) Chairperson Sd/-
(S. L. Bunker) Member Sd/-
(Sudhir Mital) Member Sd/-
    Member
    Mr. U. C. Nahta
    Member
    Mr. Justice G. P. Mittal
    Member
    Case No. 61 of 2013                                                1
     Appearances: Shri M. M. Sharma, Ms. Deepika Rajpal and Shri Anand Shree,
                    Advocates for the Informant.
                    Shri Biswajit Bhattacharya, Senior Advocate with Shri Chetan S.
                    Dhore, Advocate alongwith Shri Vijay Menon, CEO and Shri
                    Sadanandan Nair, GM for OP-2.
                    Shri Sameer Parekh, Shri D. P. Mohanty and Ms. S. Lakshmi Iyer,
                    Advocates alongwith Shri Ashok Maheshwary, Head (Legal) and
                    Shri Ratnesh Nandkeoliyar, Dy. General Manager for OP-3.
                    Shri Vijay Singh, V. P. (Operations) for OP-4.
                    Order under Section 27 of the Competition Act, 2002
       1.   The present information has been filed under Section 19(1)(a) of the
            Competition Act, 2002 ('the Act') by Shri Surendra Prasad ('the
            Informant') against Maharashtra State Power Generation Co. Ltd.
            ('Opposite Party No. 1/ OP-1/ MAHAGENCO'), Nair Coal Services Pvt.
            Ltd. ('Opposite Party No. 2/ OP-2/ NCSL'), Karam Chand Thapar &
            Bros. (CS) Ltd. ('Opposite Party No. 3/ OP-3/ KCT') and Naresh Kumar
            & Co. Pvt. Ltd. ('Opposite Party No. 4/ OP-4/ NKC') alleging, inter
            alia, contravention of the provisions of Sections 3 and 4 of the Act.
            Facts
2\. Facts, as stated in the information, are being briefly noted below.
3\. MAHAGENCO has been incorporated by the Government of Maharashtra for
generation of power in the State of Maharashtra. For the purpose of running
its 7 Thermal Power Stations ('TPSs'), it obtains raw  Case No. 61 of 2013 2
coal from the subsidiaries of Coal India Limited ('CIL') [viz. Western
Coalfields Limited ('WCL'), South-Eastern Coalfields Limited ('SECL'),
Mahanadi Coalfields Limited ('MCL')] and Singareni Coal Company Limited
('SCCL'). In order to procure quality coal and to make proper supervision of
the said supply through rail and other modes of transportation, MAHAGENCO
engages services of liasoning agents.
4\. The Informant avers that in March, 2005, MAHAGENCO had invited tenders for
coal liasoning, to supervise the quality and quantity of coal supplied to its
TPSs from the subsidiaries of CIL. Four companies submitted their bids to the
said tender process i.e. B.S.N. Joshi & Sons Ltd. ('BSN') and OP-2 to OP-4.
The rate quoted by BSN was the lowest. However, the said company was not
awarded the work in spite of being the L1 bidder due to commencement of
litigation before the Hon'ble Bombay High Court. After prolonged litigation
before the Nagpur Bench of the Hon'ble Bombay High Court in Writ Petition Nos.
2444 and 4514 of 2005 and thereafter before the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Civil
Appeal No. 4613 of 2006, work order was finally issued to BSN in 2009.
However, the same, after a while (9 months) was terminated. The termination of
work order was stated to be pending arbitral proceedings under the Arbitration
and Conciliation Act, 1996. Post-termination, the contracts were awarded by
MAHAGENCO to OP-2 to OP-4 on area- wise basis and the Informant has alleged
that since then, MAHAGENCO has been awarding contracts regularly in favour of
OP-2 to OP-4 only in the geographically distributed market, which was actually
agreed between them by means of entering into a cartel.
5\. The Informant has stated that OP Nos. 2 to 4 being in collusion with OP-
> 1 have conveniently divided amongst themselves 7 TPSs for doing liaison work
> by effectively thwarting any newcomer or any other existing company from
> participating in the tender process. It is also stated that Case No. 61 of
> 2013 3 MAHAGENCO is favouring formation of such cartel, particularly between
> OP-2 to OP-4, as is clear from the fact that since September 2009, MAHAGENCO
> has floated 4 tenders for granting work of supervision and monitoring of
> loading of coal into wagons for its TPSs by rail mode from WCL, SECL, MCL
> and SCCL; however, the said tenders have been cancelled for various reasons.
> The Informant has alleged that cancellation of such tenders by MAHAGENCO
> resulted in OP-2 to OP-4 becoming beneficiaries of the stop-gap arrangement.
6\. It is also stated by the Informant that OP-2 to OP-4 have violated clause
(d) of Sub-Section (3) of Section 3 of the Act as they have engaged in
collusive bidding for projects with MAHAGENCO thereby scuttling any
competition between themselves and raising unnecessary dispute with regard to
qualification of any other competitor in the market.
7\. Lastly, it is submitted that there is also violation of clause (c) of Sub-
> Section (2) of Section 4 of the Act as together with MAHAGENCO, three of the
> leading players in the market of coal liaison/ quality/ supervision work,
> have all colluded to deny access to other players in the market and thereby
> were preventing new players, if any, from participating in the bidding
> process. Hence, it was alleged that there was a clear violation of Section 4
> of the Act also by OP-1 alongwith OP-2 to OP-4.
8\. Based on the above averments and allegations, the Informant has filed the
instant information before the Commission.
Directions to the DG
9\. When the matter had initially come up for consideration, the Commission,
by a majority order dated 11.12.2013 passed under Section Case No. 61 of 2013
4 26(2) of the Act, had closed the information. However, in the appeal i.e.
Appeal No. 43 of 2014 filed before the erstwhile Hon'ble Competition Appellate
Tribunal (Appellate Tribunal), the said order of the Commission was set aside
and the Director General (DG) was directed to investigate the case and submit
its report to the Commission. Accordingly, the DG investigated the matter and,
after seeking extension, submitted the investigation report to the Commission
on 06.06.2016.
Investigation by the DG
10\. On investigation, the DG noted that there existed a distinct pattern of
quoting by OP-2 to OP-4 in respect of the tenders floated by MAHAGENCO during
2001 to 2013.
11\. On the basis of evidence collected, statements of the representatives of
OPs as well as third parties and other material available on record, the DG
noted that in the tenders floated by MAHAGENCO for procurement of services of
coal liasoning agents vide Tender No. T-03/2005 and subsequent tenders (till
2013), OP-2 to OP-4 had acted in a concerted manner by forming a cartel.
12\. The DG noted that OP-2 to OP-4 had distributed the different TPSs in
various MAHAGENCO tenders for coal liasoning. The said distribution is also
depicted in Tender No. 03/2005 wherein allegations of cartelisation were first
levelled by MAHAGENCO. Further, in the subsequent tenders till (last) tender
of 2013, the same conduct (except in one instance) was observed by the DG. The
conduct of these OPs in geographically dividing the tender areas and
accordingly giving their quotations to carry out such division was found to be
in violation of Section 3(3) read with Section 3(1) of the Act.
Case No. 61 of 2013 5
13\. Further, the DG opined that through the said concert, OP-2 to OP-4 were
directly determining the bid price which was a violation of Section 3(3)(a)
read with Section 3(1) of the Act as these OPs first decided to divide the
TPSs in different MAHAGENCO tenders and thereafter, to ensure such division,
quoted accordingly in successive tenders. By sharing of tenders
geographically, these OPs were also found to have contravened the provisions
of Section 3(3)(c) read with Section 3(1) of the Act.
14\. The said conduct of OP-2 to OP-4 was also found by the DG as amounting to
bid rigging/collusive bidding in violation of Section 3(3)(d) read with
Section 3(1) of the Act.
Consideration of the DG report by the Commission
15\. The Commission considered the investigation report submitted by the DG in
its ordinary meeting held on 26.07.2016 and decided to forward copies thereof
to the parties (the Informant/ OP-2 to OP-4) for filing their respective
replies/ objections thereto. Thereafter, the Commission heard the arguments of
the parties on various dates and decided to pass an appropriate order in due
course after conclusion of the arguments.
Replies/ Objections/ Submissions of the Parties
16\. The parties (OP-2 to OP-4) filed their respective replies/ objections/
submissions to the report of the DG besides making oral submissions. The
Informant, however, did not file any response to the DG Report. It instead
chose to file rejoinders to the responses filed by OP-2 to OP-4.
Replies/ Objections/ submissions of OP-2/ NCSL
17\. A preliminary objections was raised that the instant information ought
Case No. 61 of 2013 6 to have been summarily rejected as the Informant - an
advocate who has purportedly filed the information being aggrieved by the
sudden rise in electricity charges in the State of Maharashtra, has approached
the Commission with unclean hands at the behest of a rival i.e. BSN. The
Informant is an advocate associated with the Office of Shri Amit Khare,
another advocate, who, in turn represents the interests of BSN. Aggrieved by
termination of the contract by MAHAGENCO, BSN sought to take retributive
action against the present OPs. Upon an RTI application filed by OP-2, it was
revealed by MAHAGENCO that for the period in question i.e. 2009-10 to 2014-15,
MAHAGENCO had been supplying electricity at the same rates which were notified
in the year 2009 and there has been no increase in the tariffs paid by users
of electricity catered to by MAHAGENCO. Further, the photographs produced by
OP-2 of the Informant, Shri Amit Khare and Shri Arvind Joshi (Chairman of BSN)
celebrating the outcome of Appeal No. 43 of 2014 in favour of BSN, post the
order of the Appellate Tribunal have not been taken into consideration by the
DG. The DG has committed an error in dismissing the relationship between the
Informant on one hand, and Shri Amit Khare and BSN on the other.
18\. It was also argued that the DG Report stands vitiated as the conduct of
MAHAGENCO has not been investigated by the DG. The DG ignored the mandate of
the Appellate Tribunal's order dated 15.09.2015 by not investigating
MAHAGENCO.
19\. It was pointed out that the canvas of Section 3(1) of the Act is pan-
India and DG has not brought out any evidence of appreciable adverse effect on
competition on such basis. Alternatively, it was argued that as per the
decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India in Competition Commission of
India v. Coordination Committee of Artists and Technicians of West Bengal Film
and Television and others, (2017) 5 SCC 17 (para 36), the Commission is
required to determine the relevant Case No. 61 of 2013 7 market in terms of
the provisions of Section 2(r) of the Act.
20\. Further, several complaints were received against BSN by MAHAGENCO from
all its 7 TPSs on various counts such as abnormal increase in transit loss,
receipt of rakes in bunching, non-availability of required staff, quality
complaints etc. BSN grossly underperformed the tender contracts and the said
performance got aggravated due to its predatory rates.
21\. Also, the findings of the DG with regard to various other power
generation companies like MPPGENCO, GNFC etc. were extraneous to the present
matter, being beyond the scope of investigation.
22\. Next, the alleged distinct pattern of quoting by OP-2 to OP-4 is merely a
mathematical consequence of costing methods adopted by OP-2 to OP-4 in
determining the appropriate bid for the impugned tenders. As has been stated
on record by the representatives of OP-2 to OP-4, the costing method applied
by them is largely based on internal assessment. Such internal assessment
coupled with the largely similar nature of work and similar economic
parameters applied by OP-2 to OP-4 leads to an inevitable conclusion that
bids, especially amongst the market leaders engaged in coal liasoning in the
State of Maharashtra, would fall within a narrow band, while falling well
short of being identical.
23\. Further, the narrow band within which these quotes fall is also a
mathematical certainty as the prices quoted by all are based on tonnage (i.e.
rupees per metric ton). A small difference in the prices quoted by a
particular party would lead to exponentially larger repercussions over the
entire course of the contract. Moreover, OP-2's internal costing has been
explained both in the written reply and in the statements made by Shri Vijay
Menon, CEO of OP-2 to the DG. It is, thus, clear that the following parameters
were considered by OP-2 while concluding the price bid to be Case No. 61 of
2013 8 placed during the tender process: market trend, coal scenario, terms
and conditions of the tender and penal provisions, employees' salaries and
wages, PF contributions, other benefits such as LTC, reasonable profit margin,
statutory payments such as service tax etc., and RBI index on inflation over
the preceding years, amongst others. A vast majority of these factors would
remain constant for all parties determining a prudent and financially
sustainable price quote while placing bids during the tender process. It was
for this reason that the bids placed by well- established and seasoned
entities in the business of coal liaisoning fall within a narrow band.
24\. Furthermore, the existence of bids within a narrow band, far from being a
product of collusive bidding, is a common feature of the coal liaisoning
market. To buttress the point, reference was made to the price bids submitted
by bidders in respect of the tenders floated by various other power generation
companies.
25\. The geographical spread of OP-2 to OP-4's respective primary areas of
operation - which was alleged to be due to collusive activity - was in fact, a
consequence of each party's well-established infrastructure. The central
feature of establishing an infrastructure catering to the work of coal
liasoning is that of developing human resources. This entails training of all
personnel, which is mandated by law i.e. the Mines Vocational Training Rules,
1966. Employing personnel for the purpose of coal liasoning entails extensive
technical training and supervisory staff, which takes time as well as
financial expenditure to be incurred by the contractor.
26\. The finding of the DG that OP-2 propped up "dummy bidder", was denied.
Case No. 61 of 2013 9
27\. Adverting to the DG's assumption that since the advocate's fees in the
proceedings before the Appellate Tribunal was shared between OP-2 and OP-3 and
hence, there must have been an element of collusion at play, it was stated
that these were legal proceedings before the Appellate Tribunal and since the
interests of both the parties in question were affected and aligned, they were
well within their legal rights to share the burden of common legal
representation.
28\. Furthermore, the finding of the DG that exchange of pre-bid queries and
account statements between OP-2 to OP-4 bring out understanding between them
was denied as being devoid of any basis. Queries shared between the parties
concerned were nothing but technical queries relating to penalty clauses,
linkage materialisation, loading and unloading requirements etc. in order to
have a better grasp of the requirements of the prospective tender in order to
ensure that the parties met the technical eligibility criteria with the
underlying aim to simplify the entire process. Further, since the parties
concerned have been in the field of coal liasoning for a considerable period
of time, they also have in their employment, technically trained staff in
various niche areas of coal liasoning due to which it was a common practice
amongst the parties concerned to take limited assistance of other parties in
some areas of their job. Moreover, such assistance is also sought in emergent
circumstances such as non-availability of trained manpower. Account statements
were shared simply for financial clarity amongst the parties.
29\. With regard to the deposition of Shri Rohit Kumar Mishra - a former
employee of BSN - before the DG whereby he has claimed that an unidentified
person called and allegedly threatened him with dire consequences should he
make such statement under oath, it was stated that this individual remains
unidentified entirely, let alone having been identified as Shri Chetan Dhore,
Advocate of OP-2. Further, in the Case No. 61 of 2013 10 absence of any
corroborative evidence of this charge, to impute it to a practising advocate
of the Bar was uncalled for and prejudicial to the present proceedings.
30\. Lastly, OP-2 also raised objections to the fact that the sole Informant
in the present matter was not allowed to be cross-examined by the very parties
against whom he has levelled serious allegations.
Replies/ Objections/ Submissions of OP-3/ KCT
31\. At the outset, raising objection to the DG conducting investigation into
the tenders of various other power generation companies which were not subject
matter of the present case, it was submitted that the DG does not have any suo
motu powers to initiate investigation and the DG may investigate only such
matters which the Commission directs based on the material which was the basis
of the prima facie order. Violation of principles of natural justice by the DG
was also alleged as the DG had relied upon testimonies of various parties/
witnesses without affording the right to cross-examine them to OP-3.
32\. Adverting to the main findings of the DG, it was submitted that the
analysis conducted by the DG was erroneous. The DG in the report started from
the tender of 2005 and compared the same to the tender of 2006 and the tender
of 2013. The nature of each tender was completely different at different
periods of time and as such, those three tenders could not have been compared.
The tenders during the period 2005-2009 were with respect to all the TPSs of
MAHAGENCO in regard to all the collieries. Thus, these were composite tenders/
contracts which were to be awarded to any one party for the entire work of
coal liasoning of MAHAGENCO. As opposed to this, tenders in the years
2010-2012 were for different power stations and different bidders were to be
awarded Case No. 61 of 2013 11 work for different power stations i.e. the
tenders were power station- wise. Furthermore, the 2013 tender was again
completely different and was divided based on the coal company concerned.
Successful bidders were awarded the contract with respect to one coal company
for supply of coal to various TPSs of MAHAGENCO.
33\. Further, the tender floated by MAHAGENCO on 03.03.2005 was the principal
basis on which the DG had reached the conclusion which was against OP-2 to
OP-4. A perusal of the tender document and the bid would show that in fact,
the rates for individual components were not at all relevant to determine as
to who should be awarded the contract. The conclusion of the DG that the
prices were quoted in a manner so as to divide the different TPSs amongst the
bidders is fallacious. Under the said tender of the year 2005, the entire work
of coal liasoning was to go only to one of the bidders. Thus, there was no
occasion or logic for the bidders to quote similar amount for different
component/ activities under the said tender. The tender was not to be awarded
based on the individual rates for individual activities. The report of the DG
was liable to be rejected on this ground alone.
34\. Also, the difference between the bid of BSN and OP-2 was in the range of
Rs. 52 crores while the price difference between the bids of OP-2 and OP-4 was
about Rs. 85 Lacs. Such bids could hardly be considered as identical.
35\. Next, BSN was the lowest bidder in this tenders, and therefore, the
entire contract was awarded to BSN for all the power plants of MAHAGENCO for
movement/ transport of coal from all coal companies viz. WCL, SECL, MCL and
SCCL. Thus, the power plants were not sought to be divided by the rates quoted
for different power plants as suggested by the DG.
Case No. 61 of 2013 12
36\. With regard to the bid for T-16/2013, it was submitted that by the time
of this tender, MAHAGENCO had completely changed its policy and was inviting
bids based on collieries. There were 6 bidders including Aka Logistics, South
Indian Corporation Limited and M/s Aggarwal and Co. The contracts were awarded
as follows:
(i) NSCL (OP-2) was awarded Western Coal Fields;
(ii) KCT (OP-3) was awarded Mahanadi Coal Fields;
(iii) NKC (OP-4) was awarded South-Eastern Coal Fields; and
(iv) South India Corporation Limited was awarded Singareni Collieries.
South India Corporation Limited is not an Opposite Party herein and it has
been awarded the contract for Singareni Collieries. Therefore, it cannot be
said that the parties had coordinated their action in any manner. A bare look
at the tender of 2013 would show that a party - which was not one of the OPs -
was awarded Singareni Colliery. Further, the bids were awarded to those four
parties coal companies/ coal field- wise. From those coalfields, coal was
supplied to various TPSs of MAHAGENCO.
37\. Thus, the conclusions of the DG that various TPSs were divided amongst
OP-2 to OP-4 from the year 2005 stands negated. The contracts awarded in the
year 2013 were for two years and were performed till the year 2015-2016.
Thereafter, MAHAGENCO discontinued the process of awarding contracts. Offers
were sent to all the parties who participated in the 2005 tender based on the
rates offered by BSN. However, in subsequent tenders, the rates which were
offered to MAHAGENCO were substantially high due to which various tenders were
cancelled and the ad-hoc arrangement continued.
Case No. 61 of 2013 13
38\. OP-3 has already stated in its reply that it was making losses in
MAHAGENCO's projects but continued executing the same for the sake of good
relations and qualification requirements.
39\. With regard to the evidence collected by DG, it was stated that the
Report of DG is not based on direct evidence of cartel, but only on alleged
circumstantial evidences and it was on the basis of these alleged
circumstantial evidences that the DG has reached a conclusion of
"understanding between the parties". Cartelisation is a serious allegation and
leads to penal consequences and as such, the same cannot be imputed on the
basis of surmises and conjectures.
40\. The Report of the DG is liable to be rejected as it is based upon the
tender of 2005, which was prior to coming into force of the provisions of
Section 3 of the Act (which came into force only on 20.05.2009) and the
provisions of the Act are not retrospective in nature.
41\. With regard to the relationship between OP-2 to OP-4, it was stated that
these parties work as sub-contractors for each other in various contracts,
where a particular party does not have adequate infrastructural facilities. It
was for the reason of reconciliation of accounts that the OPs shared their
ledgers. Further, rebutting the DG's inference from OP-2 and OP-3 engaging a
common counsel before the Appellate Tribunal, it was submitted that there was
no conflict of interest between these parties, which would require them to
approach different lawyers and since the common lawyer was having expertise in
the branch of law, these OPs approached the same counsel.
42\. No loss whatsoever has been caused to MAHAGENCO as OP-2 to OP-4 have been
working at the rates fixed in 2005. In fact, MAHAGENCO has even abandoned the
practice of outsourcing the coal liasoning work since 2015\.
Case No. 61 of 2013 14
43\. Further, the bidders generally raise queries relating to terms and
conditions of the tender, penalty likely to be imposed by the employer,
quality criteria etc., which made the bidding process easier for all
competitors. Therefore, the conclusion of the DG, based upon OP-2 to OP-4
exchanging letters/pre-bid queries, showed an erroneous understanding of the
tendering process.
44\. The allegation of making 'dummy bidder' was also denied as based on
surmises and presumptions.
45\. Lastly, with regard to the DG's observation that OP-2 to OP-4 quoted
lower rates for chosen TPSs, it was submitted that lower prices were quoted
since OP-3 had adequate infrastructural facilities at the concerned coal mines
and TPSs. Besides, MAHAGENCO, being one of the largest power generating
companies in the country, OP-3 wanted to maintain good relationship with it.
Additionally, it was a commercial decision as performing contracts with
MAHAGENCO helps OP-3 in enriching its experience of handling large volume of
liasoning contracts which puts OP-3 on a better pedestal while bidding for
other similar businesses across the country for pre-qualifications.
Replies/ Objections/ Submissions of OP-4/ NKC
46\. At the outset, it was pointed out that though the Appellate Tribunal vide
its order dated 15.09.2015 ordered the DG to investigate the matter, the DG
had no statutory basis for conducting the said investigation under Section 26
of the Act without a subsequent order of the Commission under Section 26(1) of
the Act recording reasons as to why the investigation should be conducted.
Failure to pass such an initiation order under Section 26(1) of the Act
renders the entire investigation by the DG void in the very first instance.
Case No. 61 of 2013 15
47\. Further, even assuming for the sake of argument that the DG's
investigation was validly commenced on the basis of the order of the Appellate
Tribunal, it appeared from the DG Report that the DG had chosen to conduct an
investigation going beyond the scope of both the Appellate Tribunal's order
and the information provided by the Informant which was only limited to
investigation into the MAHAGENCO tenders.
48\. Raising issue regarding retrospective application of the Act, it was
argued that it seemed that the DG had exclusively relied on facts and
"evidence" that related to pre-2009 tenders to make a finding of anti-
competitive conduct against OP-4. There was simply no indication or finding in
the DG Report that OP-4's conduct in the post-2009 tenders was either anti-
competitive, or the result of any "agreement" that was reached prior to 2009.
49\. Further, the DG Report seemed to implicate OP-4 as being part of a
"cartel" based entirely on interviews and statements made by OP-4's
competitors without independently testing the accuracy of such statements or
giving OP-4 an opportunity to offer explanation or counter the contents of
such statements. It is a well-established legal principle that a party against
whom any oral evidence or statements are being relied on, should be given the
opportunity to test the veracity of such statements including through cross-
examination, which opportunity in the present case was not afforded to OP-4.
Consequently, all the findings in the DG Report with respect to OP-4 that were
based only on statements made by the officials of OP-2, OP-3 and OP-4 during
the investigation should be disregarded. A review of the DG's Report clearly
indicates that the DG had "cherry-picked" parts of the statements made by such
officials to find anti-competitive conduct by OP-4. It seems that the DG's
Report was oriented towards finding a contravention and consequently the DG
has selectively relied on parts of statements instead Case No. 61 of 2013 16
of appreciating such statements in the context of the questions asked.
50\. With regard to findings of the DG upon dummy bidder, it was submitted
that the DG, in the course of investigation, appeared to have found that OP-2
made "cover bid" through M/s Aggarwal & Associates. Even though the finding on
engaging a "dummy bidder" was based entirely on evidence against OP-2, the DG
extended that finding to OP-4 and stated that without an understanding with
the two other bidders (i.e., OP-4 & OP-3), "it would have been a purposeless
exercise to have a dummy party". Therefore, the DG extended the scope of the
finding to OP-4, even though there was no fact or evidence on record in the DG
Report which indicated OP-4's involvement in such an arrangement. Similarly,
there was no evidence against OP-4 of influencing witnesses during
investigation.
51\. With regard to identical rates it was argued that the mere fact of
identity in prices quoted by the parties bidding for a tender, is not
indicative of collusion and there are multiple reasons why parties to a bid
may quote prices that are similar and sometimes even identical which the DG
has simply failed to consider. OP-4 has its own commercial reasons for quoting
prices in bids, and the DG cannot simply conclude that the parties have acted
as part of a cartel without a specific finding of fact that clearly excludes
the possibility of an independent action. In so far as OP- 4 was concerned,
the DG has not provided any additional direct evidence whatsoever.
52\. Further, the procurement of tender documents was a mere secretarial task
which involved no discussion or meeting of minds. When tenders are floated,
this is publically announced and the fact that multiple parties may have
purchased tender documents on the same day or time is by no means indicative
of existence of an agreement to enter into a cartel.
Case No. 61 of 2013 17
53\. In the absence of any evidence that OP-4 was part of any alleged cartel
arrangement, the DG chose to rely on records of phone calls made/ received by
OP-4 to and from officials of the other OPs. The DG has arrived at this
conclusion by relying on call details records (CDRs) of certain individuals
from OP-2, OP-3 and OP-4 for the last one year i.e. 2015 to 2016. The
conclusions drawn and the evidence tendered by the DG in drawing such
conclusions are entirely unsupported, since (i) there was absolutely no
indication that any of the calls made by the company to its competitors
related to a "cartel arrangement" or to any matter which was the subject of
the DG's investigation; and (ii) in any event, the CDRs pertain to a period of
time which was not even the subject of the present investigation.
54\. The only direct "evidence" that the DG Report cited on the company's
participation in the alleged "cartel" pertained to an alleged meeting in 1999,
which itself cannot form the basis of any finding of cartelisation since: (i)
the alleged meeting was more than 10 years before the commencement of the Act
and the period of present investigation; (ii) during the cross-examination,
the relevant witness, Shri Arvind Joshi of BSN, has himself stated that (i) he
has not attended any such meeting with OP-4; (ii) no person from OP-4 has ever
attended such meetings; and (iii) his basis of knowing of such meeting was
only through hearsay. Therefore, that evidence cannot be relied upon to show
that OP-4 was part of any alleged "cartel" with its competitors.
55\. The very limited adverse findings by the DG regarding OP-4's conduct
demonstrated that although there was no indication of its participation in any
cartel, its role, if any, was very limited. Such limited involvement of a
party to an anti-competitive agreement has been considered as a mitigating
factor in the European Commission's Guidelines on the method of setting fines
in cartel enforcement.
Case No. 61 of 2013 18
56\. Even if the Commission were to uphold the DG's Report that there were
instances of alleged bid rigging in MAHAGENCO tenders, there has been simply
no impact on market or competition in these tenders (and therefore, no
appreciable adverse effect on competition) as a result of any such agreement.
57\. Also, OP-4 is a small and medium sized enterprise (SME). SMEs often lack
the market size for leverage to impact the market or to compete against well-
established players. Any penalty imposed on SME is likely to ruin its own
viability and impact the overall economy. Any alleged anti-competitive
agreement that involved OP-4 has not caused any appreciable adverse effect on
competition in India given the scope of the coal liasoning market as a whole
and OP-4's minimal role in this market which may be seen as a mitigating
factor.
58\. Lastly, OP-4 is engaged in several activities which form a substantial
part of its revenue, other than providing coal liasoning services which is the
subject matter of this investigation. OP-4 is primarily engaged in rendering
services of identification, sourcing and delivery of raw materials, fuel,
evacuation and stocking of finished products in the steel, power, cement and
other industrial sectors. Given that coal liasoning is a small part of OP-4's
business, OP-4 did not have any incentive to indulge in collusion with the
other OPs. Further, should the Commission decide, despite the explanations
offered above, to impose a penalty on OP-4, such penalty should be
proportionate and limited to the revenue derived from this business alone.
Case No. 61 of 2013 19
Analysis Background
59\. Before appreciating the issues arising in the present matter, it would be
appropriate to note the background of the case culminating in the present
inquiry.
60\. MAHAGENCO operates 7 TPSs located at Koradi, Nasik, Bhusawal, Paras,
Parli, Khaparkheda and Chandrapur in Maharashtra. The raw material for running
the power stations is coal which is obtained from the subsidiaries of CIL viz.
WCL, SECL, MCL and SCCL. It is observed that Bhusawal and Paras TPSs are
largely served through SECL; Koradi and Khaparkheda TPSs are largely served by
MCL; and Nasik and Chandrapur TPSs are largely served by WCL.
61\. In March, 2005, MAHAGENCO invited bids vide Tender No. T-03/2005 (which
has been described by the DG in the investigation report as the 'impugned
tender') for award of contract of coal liasoning work for its TPSs. The period
of contract was for two years and estimated quantity of coal to be transported
from the subsidiaries of CIL to TPSs of MAHAGENCO was 27 million metric tonnes
per year. Four bidders namely OP-2 to OP-4 and BSN participated in the said
tender. The rates quoted by BSN were the lowest and the tender committee of
MAHAGENCO decided to award the contract to it.
62\. However, OP-2 filed a Writ Petition bearing No. 2444 of 2005 before the
Hon'ble High Court of Judicature at Bombay, Nagpur Bench against MAHAGENCO
challenging the eligibility of BSN and sought its exclusion from the tender
process for non-fulfilling the essential qualifying requirements. The Hon'ble
High Court disposed of the said Case No. 61 of 2013 20 petition on 24.08.2005
with a direction to MAHAGENCO to take the necessary decision. Finally,
MAHAGENCO took a decision to award the contract to BSN.
63\. Again, Writ Petition No. 4514 of 2005 was filed in the Hon'ble High Court
of Judicature at Bombay, Nagpur Bench by OP-2 challenging the decision of
MAHAGENCO to award the contract in favour of BSN. The said Writ Petition was
finally heard and disposed of in terms of judgment and final order dated
19.10.2005 wherein the Division Bench of the Hon'ble High Court quashed the
subject tender as also the decision to award the same to BSN and further a
direction was given reserving liberty to MAHAGENCO to issue a fresh tender.
64\. Aggrieved by the said order of Division Bench of Hon'ble Bombay High
Court, Nagpur Bench, BSN filed a Special Leave Petition (SLP) before the
Hon'ble Supreme Court. The SLP was converted into Civil Appeal No. 4613 of
2006 and was allowed by the Supreme Court vide judgment dated 31.10.2006,
directing MAHAGENCO that it shall consider the offer of the Appellant (BSN)
upon consideration of the matter afresh as to whether it even now fulfils the
essential tender conditions or not. If BSN now satisfies the terms of the
tender conditions, the contract may be awarded in its favour for a period of
one year by MAHAGENCO, but such contract shall take effect after one month
from the date of the said agreement so as to enable the private respondents
(OP-2 to OP-4 herein) to wind up their businesses.
65\. Finally, MAHAGENCO, vide its work order dated 03.01.2009, awarded coal
liaisoning work to BSN for a period of one year. The contract agreement was
signed by BSN on 04.02.2009 and the work commenced on 07.03.2009.
Case No. 61 of 2013 21
66\. Subsequently, as per MAHAGENCO, several complaints were received from all
of its seven TPSs after commencement of work by BSN, on various counts such as
abnormal increase in transit loss of coal, receipt of rakes in bunching, non-
availability of required staff/absence of staff at loading point, receipt of
coal mixed with shales, stones and extraneous material, delay in submission of
railway receipt (RR) etc. It was brought out by the TPS authorities concerned
that the services being rendered by BSN were very poor and far from
satisfactory.
67\. In view of the alleged non-performance by BSN, a show cause notice was
issued to it on 02.05.2009 by MAHAGENCO and ultimately, the contract of BSN
was terminated with effect from 12.09.2009. On termination of contract with
BSN, MAHAGENCO issued offer letters to OP-2, OP-3, OP-4 and 2 other agents.
But, only OP-2, OP-3 and OP-4 gave their consent for the work for different
selected TPSs. Accordingly, MAHGENCO, based on the consent letters of OP-2,
OP-3 and OP-4, issued work orders to OP-2 for Nasik and Chandrapur TPSs vide
order dated 25.09.2009, to OP-3 for Koradi, Parli and Khaperkheda TPSs vide
order dated 25.09.2009 and to OP-4 for Bhusawal and Paras vide order dated
25.09.2009. At this stage, it may be observed that the rates offered to these
vendors were the same which were quoted by BSN in the tender floated in March,
2005.
68\. In the aforesaid backdrop, the instant information has been filed by the
Informant alleging essentially that OP-2 to OP-4 have distributed tenders
amongst themselves of MAHAGENCO by dividing the work of coal liaisoning for
different TPSs since 25.09.2009 i.e. when the TPSs were allotted to these OPs
after termination of agreement with BSN for Tender No. 03/2005. It is the case
of the Informant that as a result of such division, Nasik and Chanderpur TPSs
have been allotted to OP-2; Koradi, Parli and Khaperkheda TPSs have been
allotted to OP-3; and Bhusawal and Paras TPSs have been allotted to OP-4.
Case No. 61 of 2013 22
69\. It has been further alleged that such arrangement of OP-2 to OP-4
continued from 2009 to till date (i.e. 2013) as post - 2009 award of contracts
in favour of these OPs, MAHAGENCO floated tenders for liaison, work on four
other occasions, but on all these occasions, the tenders were cancelled due to
various reasons. As a result, OP-2 to OP-4 became beneficiaries of stop gap
arrangements put in place by OP-1. It has also been alleged that whenever a
new entrant tried to participate in the tenders and became L1, these OPs
challenged the credibility and qualifications before courts making the entire
process sub-judice resulting in cancellation of tenders.
Preliminary objections
70\. Before examining the impugned conduct of OP-2 to OP-4 on merits, it would
be appropriate to first dispose of the various preliminary and jurisdictional
issues raised by OP-2 to OP-4.
71\. Firstly, an objection was taken by OP-4 that even though the Appellate
Tribunal vide its order dated 15.09.2015 directed the DG to investigate the
present matter, the DG had no statutory basis for conducting such
investigation under Section 26 of the Act without a subsequent order of the
Commission under Section 26(1) of the Act recording reasons why the
investigation should be conducted. Failure to pass such an initiation order
under Section 26(1) of the Act renders the entire investigation by the DG void
in the very first instance.
72\. The Commission has noted the submission only to be rejected. Since
investigation in the present matter was ordered by the Appellate Tribunal, it
is absolutely incorrect and improper on part of OP-4 to contend that the
Commission ought to have sat in appeal over the direction of the Appellate
Tribunal and passed its own order recording its Case No. 61 of 2013 23 own
reasons. Not only such a contention is ex facie untenable, but acceding to the
same would be an act of judicial indiscipline in hierarchical set up besides
bordering on contempt of the direction of the Appellate Tribunal.
73\. Secondly, the principles of natural justice have been alleged to be
violated as the DG has relied upon the testimonies of various parties/
witnesses without affording the right to cross-examine such witnesses to the
parties under investigation.
74\. In this regard, it may be noted that under the scheme of the Act read
with Regulation 41 (5) of the Competition Commission of India (General)
Regulations, 2009 ('General Regulations'), the Commission and/ or the DG, as
the case may be, has the discretion to receive evidence either by way of
Affidavit or by directing any person to lead oral evidence in the matter. If
the Commission and/ or the DG, as the case may be, directs such evidence to be
led by way of oral submissions, the Commission and/ or the DG, as the case may
be, may, if considers 'necessary' or 'expedient', grant an opportunity to the
party against whom such oral submissions are sought to be relied upon, an
opportunity to cross- examine such witness. Hence, the power to allow cross-
examination is solely a discretionary power and the same cannot be claimed as
a matter of right as is the case under the Indian Evidence Act, 1872, all
provisions of which have specifically not been made applicable to the
proceedings under the Act. At the same time, it is to be kept in mind that
such discretion cannot be exercised by the Commission and/ or the DG, as the
case may be, arbitrarily, but has to be exercised on sound judicial
principles. If the DG relies upon any material against any party in its
report, it will have to confront the said material to the party concerned, one
way of which is through giving an opportunity of cross-examination.
Case No. 61 of 2013 24
75\. In the present case, the DG had allowed various requests for cross-
examination, as and when moved by OP-2 to OP-4, including the cross-
examination of Shri Arvind Joshi, Director of BSN by OP-2 to OP-4.
76\. Thereafter, before the Commission, after submission of the investigation
report by the DG, only two applications for cross-examination were moved: one
by OP-3 on 30.09.2016; and the other by OP-2 on 05.01.2017. Vide the
application dated 30.09.2016, OP-3 sought cross- examination of Shri S.B.
Soni, Chief Engineer of OP-1. The said application was disposed of by the
Commission vide order dated 05.10.2016, whereby cross-examination of Shri S.B.
Soni, Chief Engineer of OP-1 was not allowed by the Commission, as OP-3 could
not elaborate any reason for seeking such cross-examination and could not
prove that the DG has 'heavily' relied upon the statement of Shri S.B. Soni,
Chief Engineer of OP-1 against OP-3 as claimed by OP-3.
77\. The other application seeking cross-examination, moved on 05.01.2017 by
OP-2, was allowed by the Commission vide its order dated 17.01.2017 and the
cross-examination of the two witnesses, Shri Ram Babu Agrawal and Shri Rohit
Kumar Mishra as asked for, was allowed. Apart from these two, no other cross-
examination request was received by the Commission.
78\. In these circumstances, it does not now lie in the mouth of OP-2 to OP-4
to contend that they have not been granted an opportunity of cross-
examination and the DG report stands vitiated for such reason.
79\. Further, it may be noted that, apart from such specific opportunities of
cross-examination, OP-2 to OP-4 have always had the liberty to challenge the
statement made by any witness before the DG, by way of disputing the same, in
their objections/ suggestions/ submissions filed to the DG Report. However, no
such statement has been expressly disputed by OP-2 to OP-4 either in their
written objections/ suggestions/ Case No. 61 of 2013 25 submissions to the DG
Report, or during the oral hearings held on 26.07.2017 and 14.09.2017.
80\. Consequently, in view of the same, the plea of violation of the
principles of natural justice, on account of non-grant of any opportunity of
cross- examination, is completely unfounded and devoid of merit.
81\. Third, preliminary objection taken was that the instant information ought
to have been summarily rejected as the Informant - an advocate, who has
purportedly filed the instant information being aggrieved by the sudden rise
in electricity charges in the State of Maharashtra, has approached the
Commission with unclean hands at the behest of a rival i.e. BSN. The Informant
is an advocate associated with the Office of Shri Amit Khare, another
advocate, who, in turn represents the interests of BSN. Aggrieved by
termination of its contract resulting from Tender awarded by MAHAGENCO, BSN
sought to take retributive action against OP-2 to OP-4.
82\. The Commission has considered the issue very carefully and is of the
opinion that investigation in the present matter was ordered by the Appellate
Tribunal and as such, when the investigation has been completed pursuant to
the direction of the Appellate Tribunal and the parties have been heard at
length on merits, it is not necessary, rather impermissible, to delve into
this aspect. In this regard, it may be noted that even during the inquiry
before the Commission, the investigation report was circulated outside by the
then counsel for the Informant in a collusive manner through Shri Arvind Joshi
of BSN whereupon the Commission had to record the statements of Shri Arvind
Joshi who was found present in the premises of the Commission during the
proceedings and Shri Amit Khare, the then counsel of the Informant. The
Commission had passed the following order on 08.11.2016:
Case No. 61 of 2013 26
".....It is beyond doubt that the investigation report in the present case was
procured by M/s B.S.N. Joshi & Sons Ltd. in a fraudulent manner through the
collusive conduct of Shri Arvind Joshi and Shri Amit Khare, Advocate, as
detailed hereinabove. This is clearly borne out from the contradictory
statements given by them, as noted above.
Such a conduct renders them liable to be proceeded under Section 45 of the Act
which states that if a person makes any statement which he knows or has
reasons to believe to be false in any material particular, such persons are to
be punished with fine which may extend to rupees one crore.
The apology as tendered by Shri Khare would be considered at the final stage
of the proceedings. At the same time, the Commission directs the Informant and
Shri Amit Khare or any other counsel engaged by the Informant not to share or
disseminate the contents of the investigation report to any person under any
circumstances. Failure to comply with this stipulation shall invite
appropriate action of the Commission under the scheme of the Act."
83\. Having considered the matter anxiously, the Commission now deems it
appropriate to give quietus to this aspect. Accordingly, the Commission
accepts the apology tendered by Shri Amit Khare - the earlier counsel for the
Informant - with a firm warning not to repeat such conduct in future.
84\. Fourthly, OP-2 to OP-4 have raised an objection to the DG report by
arguing that the same is beyond the scope of reference. The DG, in its report,
framed issues only qua MAHAGENCO tenders, but while conducting investigation,
the DG enlarged the scope of investigation by suo moto conducting
investigation with respect to tenders of various power generation companies as
well including of MPPGENCO, GNFC, NTPC and Bokaro.
Case No. 61 of 2013 27
85\. For appreciating this issue, it would be appropriate to excerpt the
relevant para from the DG report itself:
.....The understanding between the OPs for the tenders of different power
generation companies for example MAHAGENCO, MPPGENCO, GNFC, NTPC, Bokaro which
came to the knowledge during investigation can only be possible when the
parties were operating as a cartel.
86\. The Commission hence, finds merit in the submissions made by the parties.
Not only that specific allegations in the information pertained to MAHAGENCO
tenders, MAHAGENCO was also impleaded as OP-1 in the present information. In
these circumstances, the Commission observes that there was no occasion for
the DG to have made the above noted observations which are purely speculative
and conjectural in nature. There is no material on record to have given a
finding of cartel against OP-2 to OP-4 in respect of the tenders floated by
other power generating companies. Hence, the same are not being considered by
the Commission while analysing the conduct of the parties in this case.
87\. Next, Shri Biswajit Bhattacharya, the learned senior counsel appearing on
behalf of OP-2 submitted before the Commission that the DG Report stands
vitiated as the conduct of MAHAGENCO has not been investigated by the DG. The
DG ignored the mandate of the Appellate Tribunal's order dated 15.09.2015 by
not investigating MAHAGENCO.
88\. To appreciate this contention, it would be appropriate to note the
relevant para from the judgment of Appellate Tribunal itself:
"The Director General shall now conduct investigation into the allegations
contained in the information filed by the appellant under Section 19(1)(a) and
submit a report to the Commission within three months. However, it is made
clear that while making investigation, Case No. 61 of 2013 28 the Director
General shall not proceed on the premise that Respondent No. 2 [MAHAGENCO] was
a part of the cartel."
89\. No doubt, the purport of the order of the Hon'ble Appellate Tribunal was
to caution the DG not to proceed against MAHAGENCO upon the premise that it
was part of the cartel. Hence, the DG, upon investigation, did not deem it
appropriate to proceed against MAHAGENCO presumably because a cartel can be
formed only by players who are engaged in the similar activities. In these
circumstances, nothing would have turned up by even investigating MAHAGENCO in
the present matter when the allegations of cartelisation could have been
analysed only against the bidders under the scheme of the Act as provided
under Section 3(3) read with Section 3(1) of the Act.
90\. Lastly, on the jurisdictional issue, Shri Bhattacharya argued that the DG
has not brought out any evidence of appreciable adverse effect on competition
on pan-India basis in terms of canvas of Section 3(1) of the Act. Further, as
per the decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India in Competition
Commission of India v. Coordination Committee of Artists and Technicians of
West Bengal Film and Television and others, (2017) 5 SCC 17 (para 36), the
Commission is required to determine the 'relevant market' in terms of the
provisions of Section 2(r) of the Act.
91\. At the outset, the Commission notes that for examining the conduct of the
parties relating to contravention of the provisions of Section 3 of the Act,
it is not necessary that the same has to be done on a pan-India basis as such
conduct can also be examined at regional or local level. Further, the
Commission observes that even though the DG might not have defined the
'relevant market' specifically, it is evident that the entire investigation
was done by the DG, not in abstract, but in the context of coal liasoning
services as underlying subject matter of the investigation within the
geographic boundaries of the State of Maharashtra. In these Case No. 61 of
2013 29 circumstances, the objection of the learned senior counsel is more
imaginary then real and nothing further needs to be commented upon the same.
92\. Having disposed of the preliminary and jurisdictional issues, the
Commission now proceeds to examine the following substantive issue i.e.
whether OP-2 to OP-4 entered into any anti-competitive agreement in respect of
provision of coal liasoning services pursuant to tenders floated by MAHAGENCO?
93\. Noting the background of the case detailed out earlier in this order, it
is seen that the instant information was filed by the Informant alleging
essentially that OP-2 to OP-4 had distributed the tenders of MAHAGENCO by
dividing amongst themselves, the work of coal liasoning for different TPSs
since 25.09.2009 i.e. when the TPSs were allotted to these OPs after
termination of work order of BSN for Tender No. 03/2005. It is the case of the
Informant that as a result of this division, Nasik and Chanderpur TPSs have
been allotted to OP-2; Koradi, Parli and Khaperkheda TPSs have been allotted
to OP-3 and Bhusawal and Paras TPSs have been allotted to OP-4. Further, such
arrangement of OP-2 to OP-4 continued from 2009 till 2013, as post- 2009,
MAHAGENCO floated tenders for liaison work on four different occasions but on
each of these occasions, the tenders were cancelled due to various reasons and
as a result, OP-2 to OP-4 became beneficiaries of the stop gap arrangement put
in place by MAHAGENCO.
94\. At the outset, it may be observed that the thrust of the investigation of
the DG was centred around as to whether there was any anti-competitive
arrangement put in place by OP-2 to OP-4 to rig the bids in respect of the
services rendered by them pursuant to the various tenders floated by
MAHAGENCO. Though the DG examined the tenders starting from 2005 to 2013, the
period of contravention that may be examined can only Case No. 61 of 2013 30
be from the period starting from 20.05.2009 (i.e. when the provisions of
Section 3 of the Act dealing with anti-competitive agreements were notified)
to 2013. It already stands settled by the decision of the Hon'ble Supreme
Court of India in Excel Crop Care Limited v. Competition Commission of India &
Another (2017) 8 SCC 47, that while examining the conduct of the parties, the
DG can well look into the past and subsequent conduct of the parties to
ascertain the trends in behaviour even though the findings will be confined to
a period post-notification of the relevant provisions of the Act.
95\. In this backdrop, the Commission examines the sequence of events in this
case, which on being pieced together would reflect whether or not OP-2 to OP-4
put in place an anti-competitive arrangement in respect of the tenders floated
by MAHAGENCO.
Identical basic rates quoted by OP-2 to OP-4 in tender No. T-03/2005
96\. The Commission notes that the genesis of the impugned conduct of OP-2 to
OP-4 can be found in the impugned Tender No. T-03/2005 which was floated by
MAHAGENCO on 03.03.2005 for coal liaisoning, quality and quantity supervision
for its TPSs. The period of contract was for two years. The estimated quantity
was 27 Million MT per year. The bid was scheduled to be opened on 24.03.2005.
In this tender, 5 bidders viz. OP- 2, OP-3, OP-4, BSN and M/s Agrawal &
Associates purchased the tender documents. Except M/s Agrawal & Associates,
the remaining four bidders submitted price bids. The rates quoted by the
bidders for different works in the said tender are noted below:
Case No. 61 of 2013 31
Table-1 (Rs/ MT) Name of Linkage Monitoring of coal Monitoring Monitoring of
Incentive Incentive Incentive Bidders materialisation, supplies over of coal
supplies coal supplies for for supply for supply of shortage Ropeways for
Koradi over Ropeways over Unit establishing of D Grade Umrer coal minimisation
and TPS for Chandrapur Train System linkage and coal above above the quality
TPS for supply of datum datum level monitoring Chandrapur coal as per level
quantity for TPS the quantity Nasik and requirements from WCL Bhusawal of
Power to TPSs of TPSs Stations MSEB Rs. 'P' Rs. 'Q' Rs. 'R' Rs. 'S' Rs. 'T'
Rs. 'U' Rs. 'V' NKC 12.50 56.00 56.00 56.00 10.00 72.00 72.00 KCT 12.50 50.00
50.00 50.00 10.00 72.00 75.00 NCSL 12.50 52.00 45.00 45.00 10.00 72.00 72.00
BSN 5.70 0.50 0.50 0.50 0.12 0.20 0.30
97\. As is evident, the starting point of concerted action had its origin in
the impugned tender of 2005 wherein OP-2 to OP-4 quoted identical rates of Rs.
'P', Rs. 'T' and Rs. 'U'. To ascertain the reasons for such identity of rates,
the DG examined the representatives of the OP-2 to OP-4 at great length.
98\. On perusal of their testimonies, the Commission is of the opinion that
their depositions did not reveal any justification for quotation of such
identical rates, OP-2 to OP-4 could not give any basis of working of the
costing carried out by them before quoting such identical rates. It is
instructing to note that such identity of rates was not found to be present
when these OPs bid for selected TPSs and decided to become L1 for the chosen
TPSs by allocating market amongst themselves. This aspect has been elaborated
in the analysis done under the next point in the succeeding paras while
analyzing the pattern of allocation of TPSs amongst OP-2 to OP-4. Therefore,
tender of 2005, is the starting point of the collusive and concerted behaviour
although provisions of Section 3 of the Act were not in force at that time.
Case No. 61 of 2013 32
Pattern of allocation of TPSs amongst OP-2, OP-3 and OP-4
99\. On the basis of the details furnished by MAHAGENCO, it appears that OP-2
to OP-4 had divided the TPSs amongst themselves by quoting rates in response
to the tenders floated by MAHAGENCO in a manner that each of these OPs got the
TPSs of their choice. To appreciate the arrangement, the following table may
be useful which clearly indicates the market allocation resorted to and agreed
by OP-2 to OP-4:
> Table-2 (Rs. PMT, Bold font reflects lower rates amongst OP-2 to OP-4) TPS
> Rates Rates Rates of Rates of Tender No of of NKC others NCSL KCT Chandrapur
> 14.50 15.00 15.50 T-13/2006 8.81 9.50 9.30 T-34/2008 48.25 51.20 52.40 71.50
> T-10/2009 52.10 54.27 55.91 78.50 (Dec. 2009) 56.30 57.80 59.35 85.00 Rates
> for 3 years 8.50 8.75 8.90 T-02/2010 34.50 38.75 36.25 T-04/2012 Bhusawal
> 24.50 23.00 22.00 T-13/2006 9.95 9.75 9.35 T-34/2008 49.85 48.20 45.40
> T-10/2009 53.41 51.57 49.05 (Dec. 2009) 57.74 55.13 52.95 Rates for 3 years
> 9.30 9.55 9.10 14.80 T-02/2010 47.25 45.00 41.45 T-04/2012 Parli 16.00 14.90
> 16.50 T-13/2006 10.30 9.97 10.60 T-34/2008 49.45 48.10 54.10 T-10/2009 5530
> 5195 56.81 (Dec. 2009) 5958 5610 60.04 Rates for 3 Case No. 61 of 2013 33
> TPS Rates Rates Rates of Rates of Tender No of of NKC others NCSL KCT years
> 9.75 9.50 9.95 T-02/2010 44.00 41.50 48.75 T-04/2012 Paras 17.50 16.50 14.50
> T-13/2006 8.50 8.90 8.10 T-34/2008 48.30 46.15 43.35 T-10/2009 49.45 49.45
> 46.85 (Dec. 2009) 56.21 52.91 50.55 Rates for 3 years 8.15 8.05 7.80
> T-02/2010 47.25 45.00 41.45 T-04/2012 Koradi 14.50 13.50 Not T-04/2005
> participated for 2 TPSs only.
                          16.00   15.00       16.25                   T-13/2006
                          55.00   68.70        Not          72.20     T-12/2007
                                           Participated               for 2 TPSs
                          10.50   10.06       10.95                   T-34/2008
                          27.70   24.10       27.10         29.80     T-35/2008
                                                                      for 2 TPSs
                          54.05   51.10       53.00         74.50     T-10/2009
                          58.37   55.20       55.92         81.00    (Dec.,2009)
                          62.90   59.60       60.44         87.30     Rates for
                                                                                3
                                                                        years
                          10.20    9.95       10.40                   T-02/2010
                          24.75   23.95       29.50                   T-03/2010
                                                                      for 2 TPSs
                          65.00   61.50       67.50         18.00     T-04/2012
          Khapardheda     16.00   15.25       16.50                   T-13/2006
                          52.90   49.85       54.00                   T-10/2009
                          57.13   53.85       57.24                  (Dec.,2009)
                          61.56   58.10       60.76                   Rates for
    Case No. 61 of 2013                                                         34
              TPS          Rates   Rates    Rates of      Rates of   Tender No
                           of      of       NKC          others
                          NCSL    KCT
                                                                        3 years
                           9.65    9.30      9.40        14.80      T-02/2010
                          65.00   61.50      67.50       18.00      T-04/2012
             Nasik        13.50   14.50       Not                   T-04/2005
                                          Participated              for 2 TPSs
                                                                       only.
                          17.50   18.25      18.50                  T-13/2006
                          85.00   99.87       Not         101.23    T-12/2007
                                          Participated              for 2 TPSs
                          10.25   10.55      10.95                  T-34/2008
                          23.95   24.65      26.85         29.45    T-35/2008
                                                                    for 2 TPSs
                                                                       only
                          45.95   58.60      59.90                  T-10/2009
                          49.65   62.32      64.12                  (Dec.,2009)
                          53.60   63.43      67.91                   Rates for
                                                                        3 years
                           9.95   10.35      10.20                  T-02/2010
                          23.75   24.80      29.50                  T-03/2010
                                                                       for 2
                                                                    TPSs only
                          41.25   43.50      45.50         34.00    T-04/2012
> 100\. From the aforesaid, it is evident that in Tenders No. T-13/2006, T-
> 34/2008 and T-10/2009 (which was floated in Dec.2009), OP-2 had quoted lower
> rates for Chandrapur and Nasik TPSs as compared to OP-3 and OP-4; OP-3 had
> quoted lower rate for Parli, Koradi and Khaperkheda TPSs as compared to OP-2
> and OP-4; and OP-4 had quoted lower rates for Bhusawal and Paras TPSs as
> compared to OP-2 and OP-3. In Tender No. T-02/2010, OP-2 had again quoted
> lower rates for Chandrapur and Nasik TPSs as compared to OP-3 and OP-4; OP-3
> had quoted lower rates for Parli, Koradi and Khaperkheda TPSs as compared to
> OP-2 and OP-4;
Case No. 61 of 2013 35
> and OP-4 had quoted lower rates for Bhusawal and Paras TPSs as compared to
> OP-2 and OP-3. In tender No. T-04/2012, OP-2 had again quoted the lower
> rates for Chandrapur and Nasik TPS as compared to OP-3 and OP-4. OP-3 had
> quoted lower rates for Koradi, Khaperkheda and Parli TPSs as compared to
> OP-2 and OP-4; and OP-4 had quoted lower rates for Bhusawal and Paras TPSs
> as compared to OP-2 and OP-3. In Tender No. 04/2005 which was floated only
> for TPSs Koradi and Nasik, OP-3 was L1 for Koradi and OP-2 was L1 for Nasik.
> In Tender No. T-12/2007 which was also for the said 2 TPSs only, OP-2 was L1
> for both these TPSs. In both these tenders, OP-4 did not participate. Again,
> in Tenders No. T-35/2008 and T-03/2010 which were limited to TPSs Koradi and
> Nasik, OP-3 was L1 for Koradi and OP-2 was L1 for Nasik. In both these
> tenders, OP-4's rates were higher compared to L1 rates of OP-2 and OP-3.
> 101\. Hence, the market allocation by OP-2 to OP-4 is self-evident and the
> same can be easily appreciated from the following trend which emerges from
> the appreciation of modus operandi of these OPs in respect of the various
> tenders of MAHAGENCO which have been tabulated in the above table:
> Table-3 TPS Tender No OP quoting lower rate Chandrapur T-13/2006 NCSL
> T-34/2008 T-10/2009 T-02/2010 T-04/2012 Nasik T-04/2005 NCSL T-13/2006
> T-12/2007 T-34/2008 T-35/2008 Case No. 61 of 2013 36 TPS Tender No OP
> quoting lower rate T-10/2009 T-02/2010 T-03/2010 T-04/2012 Bhusawal
> T-13/2006 NKC T-34/2008 T-10/2009 T-02/2010 T-04/2012 Paras T-13/2006 NKC
> T-34/2008 T-10/2009 T-02/2010 T-04/2012 Koradi T-04/2005 KCT T-13/2006 Note:
> NCSL was L1 for T-34/2008 Koradi only in T-12/2007 T-35/2008 and the said
> tender was even T-10/2009 cancelled.
                          T-02/2010
                          T-03/2010
                          T-04/2012
           Khaparkheda    T-13/2006              KCT
                          T-34/2008
                          T-10/2009
                          T-02/2010
                          T-04/2012
              Parli       T-13/2006              KCT
                          T-34/2008
                          T-10/2009
                          T-02/2010
                          T-04/2012
    Case No. 61 of 2013                                       37
> 102\. In this connection, the Commission also notes that even when MAHAGENCO
> changed its policy of granting coal liaisoning contract to the successful
> suppliers in the year 2013, the said market allocation arrangement amongst
> OP-2 to OP-4 continued. It may be noted that prior to 2013, work was
> allotted TPS-wise, but in the said year MAHAGENCO started awarding tenders
> colliery-wise. In Tender No. T-
16/2013, the rates quoted by L-1 bidders for supply of coal from four
coalfields to 7 thermal power stations of MAHAGENCO are tabulated below:
Table-4 Name of For linkage For linkage For linkage For linkage the party
materialisation, materialisation materialisation, materialisation, adequate
adequate adequate loading adequate loading loading and loading and and
movement of and movement of movement of movement of sized coal for sized coal
for sized coal for sized coal for various TPS of various TPS of various TPS of
various TPS of MAHAGENCO MAHAGENCO by MAHAGENCO MAHAGENCO by rail mode from
rail mode from by rail mode by rail mode South Eastern Singareni from Western
from Coalfields Ltd. Collieries Co. Ltd.
                     Coalfields Ltd.     Mahandadi                 (SECL)              (SCCL)
                         (WCL)          Coalfields Ltd.
                                            (MCL)
                     T-16WCL33144       T-16MCL33134       T-16SCCL33145          T-16SECL33136
      NCSL                58.50              98.50                  82.50               54.25
        KCT               61.00              97.00                  81.50                52.00
       NKC                63.25              100.50                 78.00                53.75
        Aka            Not quoted            110.00                 95.50                61.50
     Logistics
      Agrawal          Not quoted         Not quoted                91.00             Not quoted
         &
     Associates
     M/s South         Not quoted         Not quoted             Not quoted              33.00
       India
     Corp Ltd
     Case No. 61 of 2013                                                                         38
103\. It can be observed from the above that OP-2 was L1 for linkage
materialisation by rail mode from WCL; OP-3 was L1 for linkage materialisation
by rail mode from MCL; OP-4 was L1 for linkage materialisation by rail mode
from SECL; and South India Corp. Ltd. was a new entrant and L1 for linkage
materialisation by rail mode from SCCL collieries.
104\. As observed earlier in para 60, Bhusawal and Paras TPSs are largely
served through SECL; Koradi and Khaparkheda TPSs are largely served through
MCL; and Nasik and Chandrapur TPSs are largely served through WCL.
105\. Resultantly, it is seen that even after floating of tender colliery-wise
instead of TPS-wise, OP-2 to OP-4 followed the same practice of quoting lower
rates for selected TPSs whereas the other two OPs were quoting higher rates to
secure the chosen TPSs respectively as per the arrangement of division of
market.
106\. The DG examined at length the representatives of these OPs regarding the
consent given by them only for pre-selected TPSs for which these OPs had
originally quoted respective lower rates.
107\. From the perusal of the statements of the representatives of these OPs,
it emerges that the justification given by them for quoting lower rates for
the selected TPSs and higher for the others where other two bidders had quoted
lower rates, was essentially that they had existing infrastructure at those
TPSs only. Thus, it is apparent that OP-2 to OP-4 did not compete in securing
business as would have been expected as prudent business behaviour in a
competitive market. Rather, OP-2 to OP-4 seem to be comfortable in continuing
with their existing businesses under an arrangement to divide the market.
Case No. 61 of 2013 39
108\. The DG also asked specific queries to the representatives of OP-2 to OP-
4 and thereafter concluded that these OPs as such, had no constraints if they
had to move their business operations to other TPSs' areas and the
infrastructure required for coal liasoning is not such which cannot be easily
replaced or involves excessive replacement cost.
109\. In this connection, the Commission has gone through the statement
deposed by Shri S. B. Soni, Chief Engineer of MAHAGENCO who was asked about
the infrastructural requirements required for coal liasoning business. For
felicity of reference, the statement of Shri Soni is reproduced in extenso:
"Statement of Shri S.B. Soni, Chief Engineer, MAHAGENCO Q8 What kind of
infrastructure does a coal liasoning agent/contractor require for doing the
coal liasoning work.
Ans The requirement of infrastructure are always mentioned in tender document
and bidder has to essentially fulfill those requirements. Generally, 3-4
persons/supervisors are required around the clock to monitor and supervise the
loading of rakes. The agent also requires an office near the siding/colliery
where 1-2 managerial staff generally required. The staff is also required to
liaise with railway office. The manpower of 2 persons including one supervisor
is required at the TPS at the time of arrival of rakes. Apart from the
requirement of manpower, the agent is not required to deploy any other
infrastructure either at the TPS or siding excluding offices etc. All the
staff of the agents are authorized by MAHAGENCO to work at siding. The staff
of agent entering the TPS is required to take gate pass only. The copy of work
order is also given to TPS by the head office/coal office and on that basis
only the agents staff is got issued the gate pass. The staff of other agent
who has not been issued the work order for that TPS cannot Case No. 61 of 2013
40 be issued gate pass. The staff working at siding is also required to have a
vocational training certificate for safety purpose given by DG Mines and
Safety as per provisions of Mines Act. This certificate is given after 30-40
days training. There is no educational qualification for the said
certificate."
110\. From the above, it was deduced by the DG that there is no such
infrastructure required by the liasoning agent which can be said to be very
extensive and elaborate which only the existing contactors who are working at
the TPSs can have. It was observed that the infra-conditions are laid down in
each tender and in some of MAHAGENCO tenders, many other third parties had
participated. This was found to indicate that the reason given for quoting
lower prices for particular TPSs where OP-2 to OP-4 are already working is not
relevant and the same is only an afterthought of these OPs. It was further
observed that the nature of work of a coal liasoning agent is such that the
infrastructure required is not fixed, but manpower based. These OPs have also
stated that they have trained staff who have training certificate from the DG,
Mines Safety to work at colliery siding. However, when the DG asked as to
whether such training is TPS specific, it has been replied in the negative by
the representative of OP-4. It was also noted by the DG that every person
working at mines including at the siding has to take a vocational training
certificate from the DG, Mines Safety; however, the said training does not
require any educational qualification and any person can easily take that
certificate and start working in the mines.
111\. In view of the above, the Commission is of the considered opinion that
OP-2 to OP-4 have not been able to give any valid justification for quoting
lower rates for the chosen TPSs as compared to other TPSs where the other two
respective bidders had quoted higher rates and vice versa in a consistent
manner over a long period of time. The Commission notes that such conduct of
OP-2 to OP-4 goes a long way in pointing Case No. 61 of 2013 41 towards a
concerted action in geographically sharing the markets.
Purchase of tender documents by OP-2 to OP-4 on the same dates
112\. During the course of investigation, MAHAGENCO was asked by the DG to
file details of receipts of tender document/ fee deposited by OP-2 to OP-4 for
different tenders. From the details provided by MAHAGENCO, it was observed
that OP-2 to OP-4 have purchased the tender documents on the same day in a
sequence for Tender No. 03/2005 in which the concerted action of these OPs has
been first noticed. The details of such tender document purchase are noted
below:
Table-5 Tender No. 03/2005 Party Receipt No. for tender Date of tender
purchase purchase NCSL 6346558 03.03.2005 NKC 6346559 03.03.2005 KCT 6346560
03.03.2005 BSN 6346591 10.03.2005
113\. It can be seen from the above that OP-2 to OP-4 had purchased the tender
document on the same day and the serial number of receipts issued by MAHAGENCO
is also in sequence. From this, it was inferred by the DG that either all
these OPs purchased the tender document after discussion with each other or
only one person went to purchase the tender documents at MAHAGENCO Office.
Further, it was noted by the DG that such conduct cannot be a coincidence as
in one other tender of 2008, a similar pattern was discernible:
Case No. 61 of 2013 42
Table-6 Tender No. 34/2008 Party Receipt No. for tender purchase Date of
tender purchase NCSL 36450 12.06.2008 M/s Agarwal & 36451 12.06.2008
Associates NKC 36452 12.06.2008 KCT 36453 12.06.2008 BSN 36457 13.06.2008
114\. Moreover, the DG also examined the representatives of OP-2 to OP-4 to
seek their response in respect of such pattern followed by them in purchasing
tender documents whereupon it emerged that the representatives of these OPs
have admitted that purchasing of tender documents on the same day in
sequential serial number is possible due to the fact that this was done by
their local officials. In fact, it also came to light that sometimes, these
OPs also gave their authorization to each other for purchasing of tender
documents. This clearly reflects a concerted practice being resorted to by
these OPs. The Commission also finds no merit in the plea of OP-4 that
procurement of tender documents is a mere secretarial task which involves no
discussion or meeting of minds. The Commission notes that such behaviour
coupled with other factors in no uncertain terms reflects the close
coordination amongst these OPs when they were expected to compete to secure
maximum business for their firms. The Commission notes that it is not even the
case of these OPs that the same was done to increase efficiency in providing
services.
115\. Before adverting to other circumstances pieced together by the DG, it is
observed by the Commission that the DG made an elaborate investigation to
establish propping up of dummy bidder i.e. one M/s Agrawal and Associates by
OP-2 to give cover bids for different MAHAGENCO tenders. The Commission notes
that the entire investigation was centred Case No. 61 of 2013 43 around
concerted behaviour exhibited by OP-2, OP-3 and OP-4. Thus, the investigation
of the DG by focusing on OP-2 and M/s Agrawal and Associates was neither
relevant nor of any consequence as firstly, M/s Agrawal and Associates is not
a party to the present proceedings and secondly, there is nothing on record
which connects OP-3 and OP-4 to this exercise of OP-2 in putting dummy bidder.
In this regard, the Commission observes that the reasoning assigned by the DG
that such effort of OP-2 would not have been possible without an understanding
of OP-3 and OP-4 is purely a hypothesis which has not been tested by the DG or
otherwise corroborated with independent evidence. In these circumstances, the
Commission finds merit in the objection raised by OP-3 and OP-4 that the DG
extended the said inference to them without any basis, based upon conjectures.
Exchange of letters/ pre-bid queries for MAHAGENCO tenders
116\. The DG also found that OP-2 to OP-4 engaged into discussions with each
other at every stage of tendering process even before submission of the price
bid by way of exchanging e-mails and letters.
117\. In this regard, it is seen that on 27.06.2013, Shri Ratnesh Nandkeoliyar
of OP-3 sent an e-mail to Shri S.K Mahajan of OP-3 vide which copies of
letters of OP-3 and OP-4 to MAHAGENCO were forwarded seeking clarification on
different tender conditions. The DG noted in the report that the
representatives of all the OPs had initially denied any such communication
relating to the business and tenders. Hence, the DG confronted Shri Ratnesh
with the said e-mail. It would be appropriate to notice the examination of
Shri Ratnesh in this regard:
"Q27 Please clarify whether you and officials of M/s NCSL and M/s NKC ever
exchanged clarification to be sought from MAHAGENCO before pre bid meeting in
respect of MAHAGENCO tender.
Case No. 61 of 2013 44
Ans No. Q28 I am showing you an e-mail dated 27.06.2013 (Exhibit-2) sent by
you to Sh. S. K. Mahajan whereby you forwarded letters dated 17.06.2013 and
19.06.2013 (two letters) of M/s NKC and letter dated 13.06.2013 of M/s NCSL
written to MAHAGENCO regarding points for pre bid queries in relation to
tender No. T- 16/2013. It is seen that earlier in Q No. 27 you have
specifically denied any exchange of letters. What do you have to say on this?
Ans Although in earlier Q. No. 27 I stated that there was no exchange amongst
me and officials of NKC and NCSL, seeing my above mail I now recollect that we
had exchanged clarifications/queries to be sought prior to pre bid meeting
with each other. This was done at Nagpur. While I got the copy of above
letters from NKC and NCSL, copy of KCT letter was provided to both of them. I
forwarded said letters to Sh. S .K. Mahajan as it was a routine practice to
keep him apprised of all the developments at Nagpur.
Q29 Please clarify whether you and officials of M/s NCSL and M/s NKC ever
exchanged response of your respective company to MHAGENCO's letter for consent
for extending validity of price bid date.
Ans. I recall that when such letters from MAHAGENCO asking for consent to
extend the validity period of price bid were received in different tenders,
and local officials of NKC and NCSL did exchange the proposed response of
respective company to MAHAGENCO."
118\. Thus, it was deduced by the DG that though Shri Ratnesh initially denied
any communication with OP-2 and OP-4 to seek clarification from MAHAGENCO
before pre-bid meeting but when he was shown the e- mail dated 27.06.2013, he
stated that he could recollect about the said e-
Case No. 61 of 2013 45
mail whereby pre-bid queries were exchanged. He also admitted that the
discussions were held at Nagpur and he got the copy of letters of OP-4 and
OP-2 from their officials and also gave copy of OP-3's letter to them. He also
admitted to have forwarded the said letters to Shri Mahajan to apprise him
about the developments.
119\. Thus, the DG noted that the said fact of exchange of pre-bid queries
between these OPs for Tender No. T-16/2013 of MAHAGENCO showed that their
agreement for geographically sharing the tenders and bid price fixing was
continuing in 2013 also.
120\. The Commission observes that the aforesaid conclusion of the DG also
stands strengthened from the statement of Shri Ratnesh (Q. 29, quoted above)
wherein he admitted that whenever MAHAGENCO had sought the consent of the
bidders for extension of tender time, he on behalf of OP-3 and local officials
of OP-4 and OP-2 used to exchange their proposed response with MAHGENCO. The
said fact makes it plain that there was an understanding between OP-2 to OP-4
in the tenders floated by MAHAGENCO for coal liasoning.
121\. OP-2 to OP-4 sought to play down such communication by contending that
the bidders generally raise queries relating to terms and conditions of the
tender, penalty likely to be imposed by the employer, quality criteria etc.,
which makes the bidding process easier for all competitors. Therefore, it was
contended that the conclusion of the DG on the basis of such exchange of
letters/ per-bid queries amongst OP-2 to OP-4 to establish an understanding,
is erroneous.
122\. The Commission is afraid that such attempts to justify the
communications do not inspire confidence and cannot be accepted in any
scenario. In competitive bidding, it is highly unusual that competitors would
enter into any communication or exchange their proposed Case No. 61 of 2013 46
responses to the procurer or exchange letters seeking clarifications/ queries
prior to pre-bid meeting. The meeting of mind between the bidders prior to
even pre-bid meetings clearly reflects a concerted arrangement amongst the
bidders.
Financial transactions between OPs
123\. The DG conducted an elaborate analysis of the books of OP-2 to OP-4
during the period 2005-06 to 2014-15 and concluded that these OPs had various
transactions on their books which were done to share profits or make payments
for cover bids in respect of various tenders.
124\. It is not necessary to reproduce in detail the analysis conducted by the
DG as OP-2 to OP-4 have not seriously disputed the entries and the bills
analysed by the DG. Rather, the thrust of the response of these OPs in this
regard is that they were working as sub-contractors for each other in
contracts, where a particular party did not have adequate infrastructural
facilities. For example, the work in Sambalpur was outsourced by OP-3 to OP-4
as OP-4 had adequate infrastructure facilities at Sambalpur. OP- 3, however,
stopped outsourcing work to OP-4 since 2015 as OP-3 developed its own
infrastructural set-up at Sambalpur. It is for the reason of reconciliation of
accounts that these OPs shared their ledgers.
125\. The Commission finds the response quite revealing. In fact, it has
clearly been admitted that these OPs were working as sub-contractors for each
other and such clear admission seen in the light of several plus factors
joined together by the DG unerringly indicates a deliberate and intentional
arrangement agreed amongst these OPs. The Commission also finds it quite
amazing that these OPs acted in a transparent manner in executing their
understanding to such an extent that they even shared their ledgers inter se.
Case No. 61 of 2013 47
Bogus expenses shown by OP-2 to OP-4 for showing less profits/ losses in
MAHAGENCO tenders
126\. It is observed that OP-2 and OP-3 have also taken a stand before the DG
that for the work of MAHAGENCO taken by them in 2009 with regard to Tender No.
03/2005, they have suffered losses. OP-4 has also claimed such losses for the
year i.e. 2010-11. All these OPs have submitted profit and loss certificates
from their respective Chartered Accountants for MAHAGENCO tenders.
127\. The DG examined the claim of these OPs suffering losses in great detail
and based upon the evidence gathered, it emerged that commission/ money was
exchanged on account of profit sharing between these OPs for different
tenders. Hence, the plea of these OPs that they have suffered losses in
MAHAGENCO tenders stands falsified. Moreover, the Commission is of considered
opinion that the plea of suffering losses raised by these OPs is of no
consequence when a concert is established which falls foul of the provisions
of the Act.
128\. Lastly, the DG took into account one more factor to establish concert
amongst OP-2 to OP-4 i.e. sharing of advocate's fee by OP-2 and OP-3 during
the proceedings before the Appellate Tribunal in 2014. On this aspect, the
Commission is of the considered opinion that parties may engage a common
counsel who is well-versed in a particular branch of law and such engagement
can hardly be taken as a plus factor.
129\. Similarly, the Commission has perused the call detail records (CDR)
analysis conducted by the DG. It is seen from the DG Report that the entire
CDR analysis was confined to the calls which were made during 2015 and 2016.
As noted earlier, the findings of the DG in respect of contravention are
confined upto 2013. Hence, reliance by the DG upon call details of 2015-16 to
support findings of bid rigging during the Case No. 61 of 2013 48 period
2005-2013 examined by the DG, is wholly irrelevant.
Conclusion
130\. In view of the aforesaid discussion, the Commission is of the considered
opinion that OP-2, OP-3 and OP-4 have entered into an arrangement in respect
of the tenders floated by MAHAGENCO during the period 2005- 2013 whereby they
not only allocated the market but also rigged the bids.
131\. Such anti-competitive arrangement stands proved through various pieces
of evidence put together by the DG. They include quoting of identical basic
rates by these OPs in respect of the tender floated by MAHAGENCO in 2005.
Further, quoting of rates in a manner that each of these OPs could get the
chosen TPSs also stands proved from the detailed analysis of the bids,
conducted by the DG. Such parallel conduct and market allocation was further
proved from the various plus factors which were noted by the DG including: no
plausible explanation or justification for quoting identical basic rates in
2005 tender, no justification for quoting lower rates for chosen TPSs and
remaining two OPs quoting higher rates for such TPSs in a mutual way so as to
allocate TPSs amongst themselves, purchasing of tender documents by the OPs on
same dates, exchange of letters/ pre-bid queries and financial transactions
including sharing of ledgers and cooking of books by bogus entries to show
losses in MAHAGENCO tenders.
132\. In terms of the provisions contained in Section 3(1) of the Act, no
enterprise or association of enterprises or person or association of persons
can enter into any agreement in respect of production, supply, distribution,
storage, acquisition or control of goods or provision of services, which
causes or is likely to cause an appreciable adverse effect on competition
within India. Section 3(2) of the Act declares that any agreement entered into
in contravention of the provisions contained in Case No. 61 of 2013 49 sub-
section (1) shall be void. Further, by virtue of the presumption contained in
sub-section (3), any agreement entered into between enterprises or
associations of enterprises or persons or associations of persons or between
any person and enterprise or practice carried on, or decision taken by, any
association of enterprises or association of persons, including cartels,
engaged in identical or similar trade of goods or provision of services,
which- (a) directly or indirectly determines purchase or sale prices; or (b)
limits or controls production, supply, markets, technical development,
investment or provision of services; or
(c) shares the market or source of production or provision of services by way
of allocation of geographical area of market, or type of goods or services, or
number of customers in the market or any other similar way; or (d) directly or
indirectly results in bid rigging or collusive bidding, shall be presumed to
have an appreciable adverse effect on competition.
133\. Further, as per the explanation appended to sub-section (3) of Section 3
of the Act, "bid rigging" means any agreement, between enterprises or persons
referred to in sub-section (3) engaged in identical or similar production or
trading of goods or provision of services which has the effect of eliminating
or reducing competition for bids or adversely affecting or manipulating the
process for bidding.
134\. In case of agreements as listed in Section 3(3) (a) to (d) of the Act,
once it is established that such an agreement exists, it will be presumed that
the agreement has an appreciable adverse effect on competition in India; and
onus to rebut the presumption would lie upon the parties. In the present case,
OP-2 to OP-4 could not rebut the said presumption. Further, they have not been
able to show how their impugned conduct resulted in accrual of benefits to the
consumers or made improvements in the production or distribution of the goods
in question etc.
135\. As these OPs are engaged in similar business and are therefore operating
Case No. 61 of 2013 50 at the same level of the production chain, allegations
of anti-competitive agreements, decisions or practices among them squarely
stand covered within the ambit of Section 3(3) read with Section 3(1) of the
Act.
136\. Further, it may be noted that definition of an 'agreement' as given in
Section 2(b) of the Act requires, inter alia, any arrangement or understanding
or action in concert whether or not formal or in writing or intended to be
enforceable by legal proceedings. The definition, being inclusive and not
exhaustive, is a wide one. An understanding may be tacit and the definition
under Section 2(b) of the Act covers even those situations where the parties
act on the basis of a nod or a wink. There is rarely direct evidence of action
in concert and in such situations, the Commission has to determine whether
those involved in such dealings had some form of understanding and were acting
in co-operation with each other. In light of the definition of the term
'agreement', the Commission has to assess the evidence on the basis of
preponderance of probabilities.
137\. Further, since the prohibition on participating in anti-competitive
agreements and bid-rigging and the penalties which the infringers may incur
are well known, it is normal for such practices and agreements to take place
in a clandestine fashion, for meetings to be held in secret, and for
associated documentation to be reduced to a minimum. The Commission in this
regard notes that, in respect of cases concerning cartels which are hidden or
secret, there is little or no documentary evidence and evidence may be quite
fragmentary. The evidence may also be wholly circumstantial. It is therefore,
often necessary to reconstitute certain details by deduction. In most cases,
the existence of an anti- competitive practice or agreement must be inferred
from a number of coincidences and indicia, which, taken together, may in the
absence of another plausible explanation, constitute evidence of an
infringement of the competition rules. In the present case, as detailed
earlier, the DG has Case No. 61 of 2013 51 demonstrated a parallel conduct in
quoting similar basic rates besides market allocation amongst the bidders
through a detailed analysis of the various MAHAGENCO tenders. Further, the DG
supported such behaviour with various plus factors, as analysed hereinabove in
this order.
138\. Applying the aforesaid legal test to the evidence detailed in the
present case, the Commission is of the considered view that OP-2, OP-3 and OP-
4, through their impugned conduct, have contravened the provisions of Section
3(3)(c) and Section 3(3)(d) read with Section 3(1) of the Act, by acting in a
collusive and concerted manner which has eliminated and lessened the
competition besides manipulating the bidding process in respect of the tenders
floated by MAHAGENCO. The Commission is of the considered opinion that though
the finding of the DG regarding the contravention against these OPs is
confined to the period from 2005 to 2013, the findings of the Commission will
be confined to the period post- notification of the relevant provisions of the
Act (i.e. 20.05.2009) to 2013\. The conduct of these OPs stands established
from the series of actions taken by these OPs which have been detailed out in
the preceding paras. To reiterate, such anti-competitive arrangement stands
proved through various pieces of evidence put together by the DG. They include
quoting of identical basic rates in respect of the tender floated by MAHAGENCO
in 2005, quoting of rates in a manner so as each of them gets the chosen TPSs
which stands proved from the detailed analysis of the bids conducted by the DG
and various plus factors including no plausible explanation or justification
for quoting of identical basic rates by these OPs in 2005 tender, no
justification for quoting lower rates for chosen TPSs and the remaining two
OPs quoting higher rates for such TPSs in a mutual way so as to allocate TPSs
amongst themselves, purchasing of tender documents by these OPs on the same
dates, exchange of letters/ pre-bid queries amongst OPs, financial
transactions Case No. 61 of 2013 52 inter se OPs including sharing of ledgers
and cooking of books by bogus entries to show losses in MAHAGENCO tenders.
ORDER
139\. Based on the above discussion, the Commission is of that opinion that
the impugned acts/ conduct of OP-2, OP-3 and OP-4 are found to be in
contravention of the provisions of Section 3(3)(c) and Section 3(3)(d) read
with Section 3(1) of the Act.
140\. OP2, OP-3 and OP-4 are directed to cease and desist from indulging in
the acts/ conduct which have been found to be in contravention of the
provisions of the Act.
141\. The Commission, for the reasons recorded below, finds the present case
fit for imposition of penalty as well. Under the provisions contained in
Section 27(b) of the Act, the Commission may impose such penalty upon the
contravening parties, as it may deem fit which shall be not more than ten per
cent of the average of the turnover for the last three preceding financial
years, upon each of such person or enterprises which is party to an anti-
competitive agreement or abuse of dominance. Further, in cases of
cartelisation, the Commission may impose upon each such cartel participant, a
penalty of upto three times of its profit for each year of continuance of the
anti-competitive agreement or ten per cent of its turnover for each year of
continuance of such agreement, whichever is higher.
142\. It is evident that the legislature has conferred wide discretion upon
the Commission in the matter of imposition of penalty. It may be noted that
the twin objectives behind imposition of penalty are: (a) to reflect the
seriousness of the infringement; and (b) to ensure that the threat of Case No.
61 of 2013 53 penalty will deter the infringing undertakings. Therefore, the
quantum of penalty imposed must correspond with the gravity of the offence and
the same must be determined after having due regard to the mitigating and
aggravating circumstances of the case.
143\. The Commission has given its thoughtful consideration to the issue of
quantum of penalty and has considered the submissions advanced by the parties
on the issue of quantum of penalty.
144\. OP-2 argued that it has cooperated during the entire process of
investigation besides furnishing various documents from time to time. It also
argued that it is a small player having a market share of only around 3% in
this business as there are 60 parties registered with Coal Merchants
Association in this business of liasoning, supervision and movement of coal.
It also argued that there was no complaint against it from the consumers and
no loss was occasioned due to the impugned conduct. Lack of awareness about
the provisions of the Act was also pleaded. It was pointed out that now the
answering OP has educated its employees about the provisions of the Act by
organising an awareness programme. It was also highlighted that OP-2 is first
time offender and therefore, penalty may be imposed taking into consideration
the size of the tenders, turnover of the company, share in the relevant market
and other factors. It has enclosed a certificate from Chartered Accountant
providing revenue/ receipts from work executed for MAHAGENCO. It was pointed
out that the penalty, if any, has to be calculated based on relevant preceding
three years upto 2013 i.e. 2010-11, 2011-12 and 2012-13. OP- 3 though not
specifically pleaded on the quantum of penalty, but it has submitted that no
losses whatsoever have been caused to MAHAGENCO as these OPs had been working
at the rates fixed in 2005. It has also furnished a certificate from its
Chartered Accountant certifying its revenue (billing amount) from MAHAGENCO
tenders. OP-4 has argued that it has fully cooperated with the DG during
investigation and its role Case No. 61 of 2013 54 in the cartel, if any, was
very limited. No appreciable adverse effect on competition has resulted due to
the alleged bid rigging. It was also pointed out that it is a small and medium
sized enterprise. Also, coal liasoning is a very small part of its overall
business. Lastly, it was argued that only the turnover from the provision of
coal liasoning service should be taken into consideration in case the
Commission decides to impose penalty upon it. It has provided turnover details
for coal liasoning business for the financial years 2013-14, 2014-15 and
2015-16.
145\. In this connection, it would be apposite again to refer to the recent
decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India in Excel Crop Care Limited case
(supra). One of the issues which fell for consideration before the Hon'ble
Supreme Court in this case was as to whether penalty under Section 27(b) of
the Act should be imposed on the total/ entire turnover of the offending
company, or only on the "relevant turnover" i.e. relating to the product/
service in question?
146\. After referring to the statutory scheme as engrafted in Section 27 of
the Act and analysing the case laws at length, the Hon'ble Supreme Court
opined that adopting the criteria of 'relevant turnover' for the purpose of
imposition of penalty will be more in tune with the ethos of the Act and the
legal principles which surround matters pertaining to imposition of penalties.
While reaching this conclusion, the Hon'ble Supreme Court recorded the
following reasons:
> "When the agreement leading to contravention of Section 3 involves one
> product, there seems to be no justification for including other products of
> an enterprise for the purpose of imposing penalty. This is also clear from
> the opening words of Section 27 read with Section 3 which relate to one or
> more specified products. It also defies common sense that though penalty
> would be imposed in respect of the infringing product, the 'maximum penalty'
> imposed in all cases be prescribed on the basis Case No. 61 of 2013 55 of
> 'all the products' and the 'total turnover' of the enterprise. It would be
> more so when total turnover of an enterprise may involve activities besides
> production and sale of products, like rendering of services etc. It,
> therefore, leads to the conclusion that the turnover has to be of the
> infringing products and when that is the proper yardstick, it brings home
> the concept of 'relevant turnover'."
147\. Having considered the various mitigating factors pleaded by these OPs as
enumerated earlier and other pleas urged by them on relevant turnover, the
Commission is of opinion that the contention of the parties that only the
revenue generated from the impugned tender alone would constitute relevant
turnover, is not tenable. In Excel Crop Care Limited v. Competition Commission
of India & Ors., Appeal No. 79 of 2012, the Hon'ble Appellate Tribunal vide
its order dated 29.10.2013 (in para 67) categorically observed that turnover
cannot be restricted to supply made only to the concerned procurer whose
tenders were rigged. The Hon'ble Supreme Court vide its order dated 08.05.2017
dismissed the appeal filed against the aforesaid order and upheld the order
passed by the Hon'ble Appellate Tribunal. Similarly, the Commission is of the
opinion that it is the total revenue generated from all coal liasoning
services that is relevant for the present purposes and the contention of the
parties that business of coal liasoning in respect of washed coal is not akin
to the contracts under consideration, is both flawed and misconceived. It
makes no difference as to coal liasoning services are provided for washed coal
or raw coal. Furthermore, the Commission is of opinion that the present case
falls in the category of hard core cartels as OPs reached an agreement to
submit collusive tenders and to divide the markets. Thus, the case deserves to
be dealt with utmost severity. Accordingly, the Commission notes that it is a
fit case for invoking the proviso to Section 27 of the Act and decides to
impose a penalty on OP-2, OP-3 and OP-4 at the rate of 2 times of their total
profits earned from provision of coal liasoning services to all power
generators, and not limited to the profits Case No. 61 of 2013 56 generated
from MAHAGENCO alone, for continuance of the cartel for 2010-11 to 2012-13
years only based on the financial statements filed by them. Details of the
quantum of penalty imposed on these OPs are set out below:
(INR In crore) Name Profit 2 Times Profit 2 Times Profit 2 Times Total 2010-11
of Profit 2011-12 of Profit 2012-13 of Profit for for for 2010-11 2011-12
2012-13 NCSL 1.03 2.06 1.29 2.58 1.26 2.52 7.16 KCT 20.67 41.34 19.39 38.78
15.74 31.48 111.60 NKC 1.52 3.04 2.07 4.14 4.87 9.74 16.92
148\. Accordingly, a penalty of INR 7.16 crore (Seven crore and sixteen lakh)
is imposed on NCSL; a penalty of INR 111.60 crore (One Hundred Eleven crore
and Sixty lakh) is imposed on KCT and a penalty of INR 16.92 crore (Sixteen
crore and Ninety Two lakh) is imposed on NKC respectively.
149\. The Commission directs the above OPs to deposit the penalty amount
within 60 days of the receipt of this order.
150\. Lastly, the Commission notes that the learned counsel appearing for OP-
> 2 (Shri Chetan S. Dhore) had moved an application in his individual capacity
> seeking expunging of certain remarks made against him in the DG Report
> stating, inter alia, that the inferences drawn by the DG in the report qua
> him are in violation of the principles of natural justice as no opportunity
> was accorded to him to explain his side. On a careful perusal of the
> application and after hearing Shri Dhore, the Commission, vide its order
> dated 05.10.2016, had decided to take up the application for consideration
> during the final hearing of the case.
Case No. 61 of 2013 57
151\. The Commission has perused the remarks of the DG as noted at pp. 230-
231 against Shri Dhore. The Commission is of the considered opinion that the
adverse remarks made by the DG against Shri Dhore were not warranted as no
opportunity was given by the DG to seek explanation of Shri Dhore. Such
remarks against a professional who was only assisting a party were not
relevant for the purposes of present investigation. The Commission has perused
the relevant remarks and is satisfied that the same ought to be erased from
the records.
152\. Before parting with this case, the Commission is constrained to note
that though the Informant cannot be non-suited on the ground of locus standi
to pursue the present case particularly in the light of the observations of
the Appellate Tribunal, the Commission deprecates the conduct of the Informant
in breaching the confidentiality and sanctity of the inquiry by circulating
copies of the investigation report to BSN- a rival of the OPs - who, in turn,
forwarded copies thereof to various authorities. The Commission has also
considered an application filed on behalf of OP-2 wherein it is, inter alia,
averred that during the proceedings for cross- examination held on 20.02.2017,
the learned counsel appearing on behalf of the Informant had made allegations
against the Commission in reference to the order allowing cross-examination of
the witnesses. It was stated in the application that the learned counsel
appearing on behalf of the Informant alleged during the said proceedings that
the Commission had already made up its mind to allow cross-examination of the
witnesses even before the application for the same was filed. The Commission,
vide its order dated 07.03.2017, decided to examine the allegations during the
final hearing in the matter. However, the said application was not pressed or
argued by OP-2 during final hearing and, as such, the Commission does not want
to hold any further inquiry in this regard and the same stands disposed of as
not pressed.
Case No. 61 of 2013 58
153\. The Secretary is directed to communicate to the concerned parties
accordingly.
Sd/-
(Devender Kumar Sikri) Chairperson Sd/-
(S. L. Bunker) Member Sd/-
(Sudhir Mital) Member Sd/-
(Augustine Peter) Member Sd/-
(U. C. Nahta) Member Sd/-
(Justice G. P. Mittal) Member New Delhi Date: 10/01/2018 Case No. 61 of 2013
59
the witnesses. It was stated in the application that the learned counsel
appearing on behalf of the Informant alleged during the said proceedings that
the Commission had already made up its mind to allow cross-examination of the
witnesses even before the application for the same was filed. The Commission,
vide its order dated 07.03.2017, decided to examine the allegations during the
final hearing in the matter. However, the said application was not pressed or
argued by OP-2 during final hearing and, as such, the Commission does not want
to hold any further inquiry in this regard and the same stands disposed of as
not pressed.
Case No. 61 of 2013 58
153\. The Secretary is directed to communicate to the concerned parties
accordingly.
Sd/-
(Devender Kumar Sikri) Chairperson Sd/-
(S. L. Bunker) Member Sd/-
(Sudhir Mital) Member Sd/-
    Member
    Mr. U. C. Nahta
    Member
    Mr. Justice G. P. Mittal
    Member
    Case No. 61 of 2013                                                1
     Appearances: Shri M. M. Sharma, Ms. Deepika Rajpal and Shri Anand Shree,
                    Advocates for the Informant.
                    Shri Biswajit Bhattacharya, Senior Advocate with Shri Chetan S.
                    Dhore, Advocate alongwith Shri Vijay Menon, CEO and Shri
                    Sadanandan Nair, GM for OP-2.
                    Shri Sameer Parekh, Shri D. P. Mohanty and Ms. S. Lakshmi Iyer,
                    Advocates alongwith Shri Ashok Maheshwary, Head (Legal) and
                    Shri Ratnesh Nandkeoliyar, Dy. General Manager for OP-3.
                    Shri Vijay Singh, V. P. (Operations) for OP-4.
                    Order under Section 27 of the Competition Act, 2002
       1.   The present information has been filed under Section 19(1)(a) of the
            Competition Act, 2002 ('the Act') by Shri Surendra Prasad ('the
            Informant') against Maharashtra State Power Generation Co. Ltd.
            ('Opposite Party No. 1/ OP-1/ MAHAGENCO'), Nair Coal Services Pvt.
the witnesses. It was stated in the application that the learned counsel
appearing on behalf of the Informant alleged during the said proceedings that
the Commission had already made up its mind to allow cross-examination of the
witnesses even before the application for the same was filed. The Commission,
vide its order dated 07.03.2017, decided to examine the allegations during the
final hearing in the matter. However, the said application was not pressed or
argued by OP-2 during final hearing and, as such, the Commission does not want
to hold any further inquiry in this regard and the same stands disposed of as
not pressed.
Case No. 61 of 2013 58
153\. The Secretary is directed to communicate to the concerned parties
accordingly.
Sd/-
(Devender Kumar Sikri) Chairperson Sd/-
(S. L. Bunker) Member Sd/-
(Sudhir Mital) Member Sd/-
    Member
    Mr. U. C. Nahta
    Member
    Mr. Justice G. P. Mittal
    Member
    Case No. 61 of 2013                                                1
     Appearances: Shri M. M. Sharma, Ms. Deepika Rajpal and Shri Anand Shree,
                    Advocates for the Informant.
                    Shri Biswajit Bhattacharya, Senior Advocate with Shri Chetan S.
                    Dhore, Advocate alongwith Shri Vijay Menon, CEO and Shri
                    Sadanandan Nair, GM for OP-2.
                    Shri Sameer Parekh, Shri D. P. Mohanty and Ms. S. Lakshmi Iyer,
                    Advocates alongwith Shri Ashok Maheshwary, Head (Legal) and
                    Shri Ratnesh Nandkeoliyar, Dy. General Manager for OP-3.
                    Shri Vijay Singh, V. P. (Operations) for OP-4.
                    Order under Section 27 of the Competition Act, 2002
       1.   The present information has been filed under Section 19(1)(a) of the
            Competition Act, 2002 ('the Act') by Shri Surendra Prasad ('the
            Informant') against Maharashtra State Power Generation Co. Ltd.
            ('Opposite Party No. 1/ OP-1/ MAHAGENCO'), Nair Coal Services Pvt.
the witnesses. It was stated in the application that the learned counsel
appearing on behalf of the Informant alleged during the said proceedings that
the Commission had already made up its mind to allow cross-examination of the
witnesses even before the application for the same was filed. The Commission,
vide its order dated 07.03.2017, decided to examine the allegations during the
final hearing in the matter. However, the said application was not pressed or
argued by OP-2 during final hearing and, as such, the Commission does not want
to hold any further inquiry in this regard and the same stands disposed of as
not pressed.
Case No. 61 of 2013 58
153\. The Secretary is directed to communicate to the concerned parties
accordingly.
Sd/-
(Devender Kumar Sikri) Chairperson Sd/-
(S. L. Bunker) Member Sd/-
(Sudhir Mital) Member Sd/-
    Member
    Mr. U. C. Nahta
    Member
    Mr. Justice G. P. Mittal
    Member
    Case No. 61 of 2013                                                1
     Appearances: Shri M. M. Sharma, Ms. Deepika Rajpal and Shri Anand Shree,
                    Advocates for the Informant.
                    Shri Biswajit Bhattacharya, Senior Advocate with Shri Chetan S.
                    Dhore, Advocate alongwith Shri Vijay Menon, CEO and Shri
                    Sadanandan Nair, GM for OP-2.
                    Shri Sameer Parekh, Shri D. P. Mohanty and Ms. S. Lakshmi Iyer,
                    Advocates alongwith Shri Ashok Maheshwary, Head (Legal) and
                    Shri Ratnesh Nandkeoliyar, Dy. General Manager for OP-3.
                    Shri Vijay Singh, V. P. (Operations) for OP-4.
                    Order under Section 27 of the Competition Act, 2002
       1.   The present information has been filed under Section 19(1)(a) of the
            Competition Act, 2002 ('the Act') by Shri Surendra Prasad ('the
            Informant') against Maharashtra State Power Generation Co. Ltd.
            ('Opposite Party No. 1/ OP-1/ MAHAGENCO'), Nair Coal Services Pvt.
            Ltd. ('Opposite Party No. 2/ OP-2/ NCSL'), Karam Chand Thapar &
            Bros. (CS) Ltd. ('Opposite Party No. 3/ OP-3/ KCT') and Naresh Kumar
            & Co. Pvt. Ltd. ('Opposite Party No. 4/ OP-4/ NKC') alleging, inter
            alia, contravention of the provisions of Sections 3 and 4 of the Act.
            Facts
2\. Facts, as stated in the information, are being briefly noted below.
3\. MAHAGENCO has been incorporated by the Government of Maharashtra for
generation of power in the State of Maharashtra. For the purpose of running
its 7 Thermal Power Stations ('TPSs'), it obtains raw  Case No. 61 of 2013 2
coal from the subsidiaries of Coal India Limited ('CIL') [viz. Western
Coalfields Limited ('WCL'), South-Eastern Coalfields Limited ('SECL'),
the witnesses. It was stated in the application that the learned counsel
appearing on behalf of the Informant alleged during the said proceedings that
the Commission had already made up its mind to allow cross-examination of the
witnesses even before the application for the same was filed. The Commission,
vide its order dated 07.03.2017, decided to examine the allegations during the
final hearing in the matter. However, the said application was not pressed or
argued by OP-2 during final hearing and, as such, the Commission does not want
to hold any further inquiry in this regard and the same stands disposed of as
not pressed.
Case No. 61 of 2013 58
153\. The Secretary is directed to communicate to the concerned parties
accordingly.
Sd/-
(Devender Kumar Sikri) Chairperson Sd/-
(S. L. Bunker) Member Sd/-
(Sudhir Mital) Member Sd/-
    Member
    Mr. U. C. Nahta
    Member
    Mr. Justice G. P. Mittal
    Member
    Case No. 61 of 2013                                                1
     Appearances: Shri M. M. Sharma, Ms. Deepika Rajpal and Shri Anand Shree,
                    Advocates for the Informant.
                    Shri Biswajit Bhattacharya, Senior Advocate with Shri Chetan S.
                    Dhore, Advocate alongwith Shri Vijay Menon, CEO and Shri
                    Sadanandan Nair, GM for OP-2.
                    Shri Sameer Parekh, Shri D. P. Mohanty and Ms. S. Lakshmi Iyer,
                    Advocates alongwith Shri Ashok Maheshwary, Head (Legal) and
                    Shri Ratnesh Nandkeoliyar, Dy. General Manager for OP-3.
                    Shri Vijay Singh, V. P. (Operations) for OP-4.
                    Order under Section 27 of the Competition Act, 2002
       1.   The present information has been filed under Section 19(1)(a) of the
            Competition Act, 2002 ('the Act') by Shri Surendra Prasad ('the
            Informant') against Maharashtra State Power Generation Co. Ltd.
            ('Opposite Party No. 1/ OP-1/ MAHAGENCO'), Nair Coal Services Pvt.
            Ltd. ('Opposite Party No. 2/ OP-2/ NCSL'), Karam Chand Thapar &
            Bros. (CS) Ltd. ('Opposite Party No. 3/ OP-3/ KCT') and Naresh Kumar
            & Co. Pvt. Ltd. ('Opposite Party No. 4/ OP-4/ NKC') alleging, inter
            alia, contravention of the provisions of Sections 3 and 4 of the Act.
            Facts
2\. Facts, as stated in the information, are being briefly noted below.
3\. MAHAGENCO has been incorporated by the Government of Maharashtra for
generation of power in the State of Maharashtra. For the purpose of running
its 7 Thermal Power Stations ('TPSs'), it obtains raw  Case No. 61 of 2013 2
coal from the subsidiaries of Coal India Limited ('CIL') [viz. Western
Coalfields Limited ('WCL'), South-Eastern Coalfields Limited ('SECL'),
the witnesses. It was stated in the application that the learned counsel
appearing on behalf of the Informant alleged during the said proceedings that
the Commission had already made up its mind to allow cross-examination of the
witnesses even before the application for the same was filed. The Commission,
vide its order dated 07.03.2017, decided to examine the allegations during the
final hearing in the matter. However, the said application was not pressed or
argued by OP-2 during final hearing and, as such, the Commission does not want
to hold any further inquiry in this regard and the same stands disposed of as
not pressed.
Case No. 61 of 2013 58
153\. The Secretary is directed to communicate to the concerned parties
accordingly.
Sd/-
(Devender Kumar Sikri) Chairperson Sd/-
(S. L. Bunker) Member Sd/-
(Sudhir Mital) Member Sd/-
