Income Tax Appellate Tribunal - Delhi
M/S Havells India Ltd., New Delhi vs Dcit, New Delhi on 25 August, 2020
                         INCOME TAX APPELLATE TRIBUNAL
                           DELHI BENCH ―C‖: NEW DELHI
                   BEFORE SHRI AMIT SHUKLA, JUDICIAL MEMBER
                                      AND
                 SHRI PRASHANT MAHARISHI, ACCOUNTANT MEMBER
                                   ITA No. 6072/Del/2010
                                 (Assessment Year: 2004-05)
                 Havells India Ltd,           Vs.             DCIT,
              1/7 Ram Kishore Road,                        Circle-12(1),
               Civil Lines, New Delhi                 CR Building IP Estate,
                PAN: AAACH0351E                             New Delhi
                     (Appellant)                          (Respondent)
                                   ITA No. 6073/Del/2010
                                 (Assessment Year: 2007-08)
                 Havells India Ltd,           Vs.             DCIT,
              1/7 Ram Kishore Road,                     LTU, NBCC Plaza,
               Civil Lines, New Delhi              Pusp Vihar, Sector-4, Saket,
                PAN: AAACH0351E                             New Delhi
to not to set off the loss incurred by Unit NO. 2, another eligible unit by
reducing the deduction of section 80IC of the Act. Accordingly, ground No. 2
of the appeal is allowed.
89\. In the result, appeal of the assessee is partly allowed.
90\. In the result all the three appeals are disposed of.
Order pronounced in the open court on 25/08/2020.
                 -Sd/-                                              -Sd/-
            (AMIT SHUKLA)                                   (PRASHANT MAHARISHI)
           JUDICIAL MEMBER                                   ACCOUNTANT MEMBER
    Dated: 25/08/2020
    A K Keot
    Copy forwarded to
      1.   Applicant
      2.   Respondent
      3.   CIT
      4.   CIT (A)
                PAN: AAACH0351E                             New Delhi
                     (Appellant)                          (Respondent)
                                 ITA No. 466/Del/2011
                               (Assessment Year: 2007-08)
                   ACIT (LTU),              Vs.       Havells India Ltd,
          NBCC Plaza, Pusp Vihar, Sector-          1/7 Ram Kishore Road,
               4, Saket, New Delhi                  Civil Lines, New Delhi
                                                     PAN: AAACH0351E
                   (Appellant)                           (Respondent)
                    Assessee by :                   Shri Rohit Jain, Adv
                                                  Ms. Deepashree Rao, CA
                                                   Shri Vibhu Gupta, CA
                    Revenue by:                  Shri Saras Kumar, Sr. DR
                  Date of Hearing                       20/07/2020
               Date of pronouncement                    25/08/2020
                                       ORDER
PER PRASHANT MAHARISHI, A. M.
01\. This is a bunch of three appeals of the same assessee for two Assessment
Years, which were argued together by the parties; therefore, same is disposed
off by this common order.
Page | 1 ITA no 6072/Del/2010 for A Y 2004-05 [By Assessee]
02\. ITA No 6072/Del/2010 for Assessment Year: 2004-05 is filed by the
assessee against the order of the ld CIT(A)-XII, New Delhi dated 07.12.2010
raising following grounds of appeal:-
> "1. That on the facts and in the circumstances of the case and the legal
> position, the learned CIT (Appeals) has erred in confirming the interest of
> Rs.280276/- paid to Syndicate Bank as capital nature as against revenue in
> nature claimed by the appellant company.
> 2 (i) That on the facts and in the circumstances of the case and the legal
> position, the learned CIT (Appeals) has erred;
> \- in confirming the amount of Rs. 5 lacs paid to G.S Lighting Pvt. Ltd
> towards non-compete fee as capital expenditure as against revenue
> expenditure claimed by the appellant company. '
> \- in holding that the payment of non-compete fee has been made to
> prevent/eliminate competition whereas the same has been paid where the
> manufacturing facility were reserved for the appellant company and the same
> benefitted both the parties in view of the increase in the turnover in this
> line of business.
> (ii) Without prejudice to the ground no.2(i) above, the CIT (Appeals) has
> erred in not amortizing the non-compete fee over a period of agreement.
> 3 That on the facts and in the circumstances of the case and the legal
> position, the learned CIT (Appeals) has erred;
> \- in not allowing the interest income earned at Rs .
> 4441951/- as part of business income as claimed by the appellant company.
> in not netting out the interest income from the interest paid since the
> interest income is inextricably connected with the business of the appellant
> company.
> in deducting 90% of the amount of Rs.6438525/- received from M/s. Crabtree
> India Limited towards common office and infrastructure facilities provided
> being in the nature of reimbursement of the expenses incurred by the
> appellant company.
> for the purpose of computation of deduction u/s 80HHC of the Income Tax Act,
> 1961."
> Page | 2
> 03\. Brief facts shows that assessee is a company engaged in the
> manufacturing of switchgears, energy meters, cables and wires, electrical
> fans, compact fluorescent lamp and related components and trading of
> luminaries lighting fixtures and exhaust fans. It filed its return of income
> on 30.10.2004 at Rs.
241077353/-. The case of the assessee was taken up for scrutiny. During the
course of assessment proceedings, assessee invoked the provision of reference
u/s 144A on certain issues. The ld Additional Commissioner gave certain
directions to the ld AO. Consequently, the ld AO passed assessment order u/s
143(3) of the Act on 29.12.2006. The ld AO made following adjustment/
additions/ disallowances to the total income of the assessee:-
i. Disallowance u/s 14A of Rs. 57000/-.
ii. Term loan interest capitalized of Rs. 280276/- iii. Disallowances of non
compete fees holding it to be a capital expenditure of Rs. 5 lakhs.
iv. Additions on accounts of increase in authorised capital of Rs. 41012/.
04\. The ld AO also noted that the assessee has claimed deduction u/s 80HHC of
the Act of Rs. 41,45,160/-. The ld AO computed interest income as ‗income from
other sources' against interest income offered by the assessee as ‗business
income'. The assessee was also not allowed netting of the interest paid
against interest received. The ld AO also deducted 90% of the amount of Rs.
64,38,525/- received from another group concern for common office and
infrastructure facilities. Thus, 80HHC claim of the assessee was substantially
reduced.
05\. Against this order, assessee preferred an appeal before the ld CIT (A).
The ld CIT(A) upheld the following adjustment/ additions:- i. Additions of Rs.
2,80,276/- interest expenditure holding it to be capital in nature.
ii. Disallowance of Rs. 5 lakh on non compete fees holding the same to be
capital in nature iii. The deduction under section 80HHC was also decided by
him with income from FDR and NSC amounting to Rs. 444195/- as income from
other sources. Even netting of the interest was not allowed relying on the
decision of the Hon'ble Delhi High Court in 16 DTR 339 and Hon'ble Madras High
Court 221 CTR 196.
Page | 3 iv. He further held that Rs. 3438525/- received from Crabtree India
Ltd, sister concern of the assessee is pertaining to leasing out of premises
and therefore he upheld the action of the ld AO adjusting 90% of the same
while working out deduction u/s 80HHC.
Thus, appeal of the assessee was partly allowed. Therefore, the assessee is
aggrieved with the order of the ld CIT(A) and is in appeal before us.
06\. Ground No. 1 of the appeal is with respect to additions of Rs. 2,80,276/-
> being interest paid by the assessee to Syndicate Bank held to be capital
> expenditure. Facts shows that the Assessee has taken term loan from
> Syndicate Bank and out of total interest paid of Rs. 4,69,918/- on that loan
> , Assessee capitalized interest payment of Rs. 1,89,342/- and claimed the
> balance expenditure of Rs. 2,80,276/- as revenue expenditure. The ld AO was
> of the view that as the production has not started i.e. assets are not put
> to use, cost of purchase of machinery and interest thereon needs to be
> capitalized. The contention of the assessee was that the above loan was used
> to pay back money borrowed by the assessee earlier and capitalization of
> those assets for which loan is taken, took place in earlier years. According
> to the assessee the money was used for repayment or to defray the capital
> cost already incurred and therefore it is not hit by the proviso of the
> section 36(1)(iii) of the Act. The ld AO and the ld CIT (A) both rejected
> the contention of the assessee and therefore, this ground.
07\. The ld AR vehemently contested the above disallowance stating that the
interest expenditure was incurred for the purpose of the business, commercial
production had already commenced and therefore, disallowances cannot be made.
The ld AR referred to page No. 1 of the paper book showing working that how
interest expenditure of Rs. 1,89,314/- was capitalized. It is submitted that
loan of Rs. 13.40 crores was obtained from Syndicate Bank out of which Rs. 8
crores was already capitalized in plant and machinery by prior disbursement of
loan in Faridabad Unit, Noida Unit and Alwar Unit. Thus, it was submitted that
only Rs. 5.40 crores which was used for 16 days only, assets defrayed out of
this sum are not yet put to use, therefore, interest thereon of Rs. 189342/-
is already capitalized. He further referred to page No. 6 of the paper book to
show that total expenditure of Rs. 8 crores in three units was already
capitalized up to Page | 4 March 15 2004. He further referred to sanction
letter dated 26.02.2004 of Syndicate Bank wherein, it is specifically
mentioned that originally project cost of Rs. 15 crores initially sanctioned
by SBI. He therefore, submitted that the interest of above term loan was for
the capital expenditure already incurred for purchase and set up of the plant
and machinery and it was already put to use before 15.03.2004 i.e. the date on
which the amount of loan from syndicate bank was received. He also referred to
provision of section 36(1)(iii) of the Act to show that the expenditure is
required to be capitalized till the date on which the asset was first put to
use. He therefore, submitted that disallowances by the lower authorities are
not justified.
08\. The ld DR relied upon the orders of the lower authorities.
09\. We have carefully considered the rival contentions and perused the orders
of the lower authorities. The facts placed before us shows that loan from
Syndicate Bank was for Rs. 13.40 crores as per sanction letter dated
26.02.2004. The above loan was partly utilized for capital expenditure i.e.
purchase of plant and machinery, which have not been put to use till date and
partly for assets already capitalized. Assessee stated that sum of Rs. 5.4
crores is the amount of loan utilized for which the asset are not put to use
and therefore, interest relevant to that for 16 days was computed @8%
amounting to Rs. 1,89,342/- was capitalized. This is in accordance with the
proviso to section 36(1)(iii) of the Act. The assessee has claimed that Rs. 8
crores is already utilized by the assessee for purchase of plant and machinery
and said capital asset were financed by the above loan of Syndicate Bank. Such
amount of investment in plant and machinery was related to three different
units of the assessee located at Faridabad, Noida and Alwar. According to
that, the assessee has already invested a sum of Rs. 8,00,00,210/- in the
plant and machinery ,which has already been ‗put to use' prior to disbursement
of the loan by Syndicate Bank. According to proviso to section 36(1)(iii) ,
interest is required to be capitalized if it is borrowed for acquisition of
capital asset for the period from the date of borrowing till the date on which
such asset was first put to use. Such expenditure is not allowable as
deduction u/s 36(1)(iii) of the Act. In the present case, the date of
borrowing is after the date of asset first put to use. This fact has not been
denied or disputed by the revenue. In view of this, we Page | 5 are of the
view that the disallowances made by the ld AO and the balance interest of Rs.
2,80,276/- is not warranted. Accordingly, ground No. 1 of the appeal is
allowed and the ld AO is directed to delete the disallowances of interest of
Rs. 2,80,276/- paid to Syndicate Bank.
10\. Ground No. 2 is with respect to disallowance of Rs. 5 lakh paid by the
Assessee to M/s. GS Lightning Pvt. Ltd towards non compete fees which was
treated by the ld AO and confirmed by the ld CIT(A) as capital expenditure.
Therefore, the Assessee is in appeal before us.
11\. The facts leading to the above disallowances shows that the assessee has
acquired 24% of equity capital in one company i.e. GS Lighting Pvt. Ltd. The
assessee also entered into a manufacturing agreement on 11.09.2003 with the
above company, which is engaged in the manufacturing of various lights and its
components, accessories having factory at Gurgaon under brand name of
―polestar'. That company offered exclusive manufacturing of lighting
components etc for the assessee. The agreement shows that assessee in the name
of its subsidiary company has acquired and now owns Intellectual property,
technical, information relating to design, style, specifications and
manufacturing process of this ‗Polstar' lighting to be manufactured. By that
manufacturing agreement, GS Lightings P Ltd and its shareholders and some
other persons also have undertaken to not to use the trademark etc relating to
this product. During the continuation of this agreement and after termination
thereof, GSl and those persons will not use brand name or product, which is
identical to the trademark or trade name acquired by assessee. On expiry of
the manufacturing agreement, GSL is further to move the appropriate authority
for cancellation of in its name and get registration in the name of assessee's
group of approval granted to it for manufacturing of the above product. The
agreement also says that GSL do not have any right in the intellectual
property right pertaining to that product after this agreement. In this
manufacturing agreement, the assessee guaranteed minimum turnover of the above
product and remuneration to the GSL. As per this agreement, all the employees
and the technical representative of GSL factory would also remain as employee
of the assessee. Along with this manufacturing agreement, the assessee also
entered on the same date an assignment deed Page | 6 in favour of the one QRG
Enterprise Ltd, which is also the group company [subsidiary] of the assessee.
In this assignment deed along with GSL Lighting Ltd, partners of another
partnership firm M/s. GS Electricals also joined. This agreement was entered
in terms of memorandum of understanding entered into by the assessee on
01.08.2003 wherein, GSL Lighting and partnership firm agreed to assign all
proprietary and ownership rights in the registered trade mark and design
registration along with all common law rights including the goodwill to the
QRG Enterprises. The assessee also entered on the same date i.e. 11.09.2003, a
non competition agreement with GS Lighting Pvt. Ltd, Mr. Kishan Mehta
(partner) of the GS Electronics and Director of this company and other
shareholders whereby the assessee agreed to pay non compete fee of Rs. 5 lakh.
This non compete fees was claimed by the assessee as revenue expenditure but
held by the ld AO as capital expenditure. During the course of assessment
proceedings the assessee invoked provision of section 144A of Act to seek
direction of the Additional Commissioner to the ld AO which was issued on
26.12.2006 holding that the above non compete fees paid by the assessee is
capital expenditure. The reasons given by ld Additional Commissioner, which is
binding on the ld AO, that assessee, acquired all electrical consumable
turnovers under the brand name ‗Polstar' acquired by the assessee and renamed
it as ‗Havells Polstar'. The assessee entered into a manufacturing agreement,
agreement for transfer of IPR and by acquiring 24% stake in GS Lighting Ltd
paid a non-compete fees of Rs. 5 lakhs. The ld Addl CIT held that payment of
such non compete fees resulted into a benefit of enduring nature in the hands
of the assessee and therefore, it is capital expenditure. The ld Addl. CIT
also relied on the decision of the Kolkata High Court in 139 ITR 581 and
Karnataka High Court in 201 ITR 25. The ld CIT (A) also noted that the
agreement clearly shows that the expenditure incurred by the assessee is
capital in nature. The ld AO based on the above direction disallowed the above
sum.
12\. On appeal, ld CIT(A) further strengthened views of the ld AO and Addl.
CIT by referring to the decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in 27 ITR 34 and
of Hon. Punjab High court in 35 ITR 576. He further held that manufacturing
agreement could be terminated only after three years of Page | 7 operation
after giving a 12 months' advance notice. Thus, there is no doubt that the
advantage flowing to assessee is for a considerably long time and resulting in
enduring benefit. He also held that it is a payment to eliminate competition
by payment to rival firm for certain period by paying it every year in form of
manufacturing agreement consideration. For this proposition he relied upon 221
ITR 199, 87 ITR 691, 143 ITR 822 and 139 ITR 581 and 102 ITD 356. The assessee
is aggrieved with the above finding and raised this ground before us.
13\. The ld AR Shri Rohit Jain, advocate, raised contentions relying on
plethora of judicial precedents to submit that non compete fees is a revenue
expenditure. His submission is that the assessing officer and CIT(A) have
failed to appreciate the facts of the case and have erroneously treated the
expenditure as being ‗capital in nature' for the reasons that i. In the
relevant assessment year, the appellant made payment of Rs.5 lacs on account
of business necessity and commercial expediency in order to promote its
existing business in the line of manufacturing and trading in lighting
fixtures and fittings, by utilizing the manufacturing facility of GSL.
ii. It is pertinent to mention here that on 11th August, 2003, three separate
agreements were entered into with GSL:
> a) Assignment Deed between GSL and M/s. QRG Enterprises Limited, subsidiary
> of the appellant, for assigning of trademark/ brand ―Pole Star‖ owned by
> GSL;
> b) Exclusive Manufacturing Agreement between appellant and GSL where under
> GSL agreed to exclusively manufacture products of the appellant at its
> factory at Gurgaon;
> c) Non-competition Agreement between appellant and GSL where under the
> appellant paid Rs.5 lacs for GSL agreeing not to manufacture and market
> products using the brand ―Pole Star‖ during the continuance of the exclusive
> manufacturing agreement referred in clause (b) above.
iii. He referred to salient features of the Exclusive Manufacturing Agreement
between the appellant and GSL:
Page | 8
a) GSL shall exclusively manufacture products for the appellant at its factory
at Gurgaon and shall not manufacture or get manufactured from any outside
vender same or identical products for itself or for any third party;
b) Appellant assured minimum business in the first three years of the
operation of the manufacturing agreement inasmuch as the appellant agreed to
ensure business to the extent of minimum turnover of Rs.9.5 crores, Rs.12
crores and Rs.15 crores in the first, second and third year of operations
respectively.
c) Appellant also assured minimum gross margin on the products manufactured by
GSL for and on behalf of the appellant. d) Appellant assured continuous
business for the first three years of the operations of the exclusive
manufacturing agreement inasmuch as the parties were barred from terminating
the agreement for the first three years.
On perusal of the previously mentioned, he submitted that aforesaid exclusive
manufacturing agreement was a commercial agreement entered into by the
appellant to assure itself continued manufacturing of its product at the
factory premises of GSL, thereby resulting in commercial/ business advantage
in the form of assured supplies. In continuance of the said agreement, the
appellant also entered into a noncompetition agreement with GSL where under
GSL was, during the continuance of the exclusive manufacturing agreement (with
no specific time limit being prescribed in the said agreement), barred from
manufacturing products with the brand name ―Pole Star‖. The said non-
competition agreement, it is emphatically reiterated, specifically provided
that the same shall continue to be in operation only till the tenure of the
exclusive manufacturing agreement. Therefore, payment under non-competition
agreement was in essence part and parcel of the exclusive manufacturing
agreement, which was Page | 9 entered into merely to derive commercial
advantage in the form of assured manufacturing and supply from GSL. In case
exclusive manufacturing agreement was to be terminated by the parties, for
whatever reason, non-competition agreement would also stand terminated. Thus,
life/tenure of the non-competition agreement was dependent upon the life/
tenure of the exclusive manufacturing agreement. In view of the aforesaid, it
is submitted that payment under the non-competition agreement was in essence
payment made for obtaining commercial advantage in the form of continued
manufacturing and supply by GSL, thereby ensuring smooth operations of the
appellant. As a result of such payment, no enduring benefit in capital field
and/ or no capital asset was brought into existence; on the contrary payment
was for a bulk deal of GSL agreeing to enter into exclusive manufacturing
agreement with the appellant. It is, thus, submitted that the amount paid to
GSL was in the ordinary course of business and for carrying on the business
more profitably and not for acquisition of any asset or any right of a
permanent nature. In pursuance of the aforesaid agreements, the manufacturing
facilities of GSL were exclusively reserved for manufacturing the appellant's
products/orders.
iv. Referring to manufacturing agreement, he submitted that Agreement was
terminable by either of the parties after first 3 years of operation, after
giving 12 months advance notice. The aforesaid expenditure, it is submitted,
being incurred wholly and exclusively for the purpose of business is allowable
as deduction under section 37(1) of the Act . Section 37 of the Act provides
for deduction of expenses which are laid out or expended wholly and
exclusively for the purpose of business or profession. The expenses for which
deduction is, however, not allowable under the aforesaid provision are (a)
personal expenses,
(b) expenses defined under section 30 to 36 of the Act, and (c) capital
expenditure. It, therefore, follows that if the expenditure incurred by the
assessee is on revenue account and expended wholly and exclusively for the
purpose of business, then, such expenditure would Page | 10 be allowed as
deduction, whereas capital expenditure, is not so allowable. The impugned
payment was, in substance, paid by the appellant to GSL because of commercial
expediency so as to preserve/ protect profitability of the appellant. The
agreements in lieu of which impugned payments were made were for limited
periods as specified in the agreements and were terminable after giving prior
notice. The aforesaid expenditure did not result in acquisition of any capital
asset or benefit of enduring nature in the capital field, to regard the same
as capital in nature. He relied up on decision of Honourable Supreme Court in
the case of Empire Jute Co. Ltd. vs. CIT [124 ITR 1], laid down the test for
determining as to what constitutes capital expenditure in the following terms:
> "...It is not every advantage of enduring nature acquired by an assessee
> that brings the case within the principle laid down in this test. What is
> material to consider is the nature of the advantage in a commercial sense
> and it is only where the advantage is in the capital field that the
> expenditure would be disallowable on an application of this test. If the
> advantage consists merely in facilitating the assessee's trading operations
> or enabling the management and conduct of the assessee's business to be
> carried on more efficiently or more profitably while leaving the fixed
> capital untouched, the expenditure would be on revenue account, even though
> the advantage may endure for an indefinite future."
The ratio deciendi laid down in the aforesaid judgment has been reiterated by
the Honourable Supreme Court in CIT v. Associated Cement Companies Ltd.: [172
ITR 257], and again in the case of Alembic Chemical Works Co. Ltd. v. CIT:
[177 ITR 377]. He also referred to several decisions to the same effect as i.
CIT vs. Madras Auto Service (P) Ltd.: 233 ITR 468 (SC) ii. CIT vs. Associated
Cement Companies Ltd: 172 ITR 257(SC) iii. Commissioner of Income Tax v.
Hindustan Zinc Ltd. :
> 322 ITR 478 (Raj) Page | 11 iv. CIT v. Jai Parabolic Springs Ltd.: 306 ITR
> 42 (Delhi HC), v. CIT v. Salora International: 308 ITR 199/ 177 Taxman 456
> (Del. HC) vi. CIT v. Pepsico India Holdings (P) Ltd.: ITA
> No.319,1185,1448,1822 & 2091 of 2010 vii. CIT v. Citi Financial Consumer
> Fin. Ltd: 335 ITR 29 (Delhi) viii. CIT v. Casio India Ltd.: 335 ITR 196
> (Del.) ix. CIT v. Geoffrey Manners and Co. Ltd.: 315 ITR 134(Bom) x. CIT v.
> Liberty Group Marketing Division: 315 ITR 125 (P&H) xi. CIT v. Rakhra
> Technologies (P)Ltd.: 243 CTR 505(P&H) xii. DCIT v. Core Healthcare Limited:
> 308 ITR 263 (Gujarat HC) xiii. CIT v. Brilliant Tutorials (P) Limited: 292
> ITR 399 (Mad.) v. In that view of the matter, payment of Rs. 5,00,000
> described as non-
> compete fees in the agreements, did not result in an enduring advantage,
> would have to be treated as deductible revenue expenditure. Reliance in this
> regard is placed on the decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of
> CIT vs Coal Shipments Pvt Ltd.: 82 ITR 902, where the assessee was a company
> engaged in the business of export of coal from India to Burma. Amongst the
> other exporters were Karan Chand Thapar & Brothers, Andrew Yule & Co, HV Low
> & Co, and others. After the 2nd World War, the demand for coal in Burma had
> decreased substantially and therefore, all the exporters formed a union to
> export coal to Burma. In light of the decreasing demand for coal in Burma,
> the assessee and HV Low & Co entered into an agreement whereby the latter
> would not export coal to Burma and would, in turn, assist the assessee in
> procurement of coal to be exported to Burma. In return, the assessee would
> pay HV Low & Co a sum of Rs.5 per ton of coal shipped to Burma. The issue
> before the Supreme Court was whether the payment made by the assessee to HV
> Low & Co, for restricting its export of coal to Burma was in the nature of
> capital or revenue expenditure. After considering the Page | 12 decision of
> the Privy Council in Nchanga Consolidated Copper Mines: 58 ITR 241 (PC) and
> the decision of the Hon. Supreme Court in Assam Bengal Cement vs CIT: 27 ITR
> 34 (SC), the Hon. apex Court held that if payment were made to ward off
> competition in business with an object of deriving an advantage by
> eliminating competition over some length of time, the said expenditure would
> be in the nature of capital expenditure. On the other hand, where there was
> no certainty of the duration of the advantage and the same could be put to
> an end any time, such expenditure would not be in the nature of capital
> expenditure but revenue expenditure. Hon. Supreme Court held that how long
> the period of contemplated advantage should be in order to constitute
> enduring benefit would depend upon the facts and circumstances of each case.
> The Court made the following important observations in this regard:
> ―Although we agree that payment made to ward off competition in business to
> a rival dealer would constitute capital expenditure if the object of making
> that payment is to derive an advantage by eliminating the competition over
> some length of time, the same result would not follow if there is no
> certainty of the duration of the advantage and the same can be put to an end
> at any time. How long the period of contemplated advantage should be in
> order to constitute enduring benefit would depend upon the circumstances and
> the facts of each individual case.‖ vi. It would, therefore, be seen that
> the Supreme Court in Coal Shipment's case (supra) did not lay down any rigid
> rule that all expenditure related to warding off competition would
> constitute capital expenditure. It is only when the expenditure brings into
> existence a benefit of enduring nature would such a payment of non-
compete fees be treated as capital expenditure and not otherwise It is further
submitted that on reading the aforesaid decision of the apex Court in Coal
Shipment (supra) in juxtaposition with the later decision of the Supreme Court
in Empire Jute Mills (supra), it could be inferred that only when the
expenditure incurred by the assessee brings into existence benefit of enduring
nature in the capital field, Page | 13 would such payment of non-compete fees
be treated as capital expenditure and not otherwise. If the expenditure so
incurred is for carrying on business more efficiently and profitably, without
addition to the profit earning apparatus, the same would be allowable revenue
deduction, irrespective of the fact whether the benefit is enduring or
ephemeral. Attention, in this regard, is invited to the following decisions,
wherein while reconciling and following the aforementioned decisions of the
apex Court, the Courts have, in the facts and circumstances of the case, held
non-compete payments to be revenue expenditure.
vii. In the case of CIT vs Eicher Ltd: 302 ITR 249 (Del), a full time employee
of the assessee called Vishwanathan had acquired, during the course of his
employment, specialized knowledge of technology in the two-wheeler industry as
well as of managing the dealership of the market place and other specialized
knowledge relating to the two- wheeler business. Vishwanathan entered into an
agreement with a company called VCPL to the effect that he would promote VCPL
and collaborate with it to set up manufacturing facilities for two-wheelers
upon his retirement from the assessee. On coming to know of this, the assessee
negotiated a non-compete agreement with VCPL and Vishwanathan whereby the
assessee paid a sum of Rs.4 crores to VCPL so that VCPL and Vishwanathan would
not carry out any business activity with regard to two wheelers. The assessee
claimed this amount as business expenditure, which was disallowed by the
assessing officer. Feeling aggrieved, the assessee preferred an appeal before
the CIT (A) who held that the expenditure incurred was allowable business
deduction. The appeal by the Revenue was dismissed by the Tribunal. On further
appeal to the Hon'ble Court, it was contended on behalf of the Revenue that
the sum of Rs.4 crores paid to Mr. Vishwanathan was capital expenditure and
not allowable as deduction. The Revenue placed reliance upon decision of the
Supreme Court in Assam Bengal Cement (supra) and decision of the Allahabad
High Court in Neel Kamal Talkies vs CIT : 87 ITR 691 (All). Per contra, it was
contended on behalf of the assessee that no new Page | 14 asset was created by
the assessee, nor any new profit making apparatus was acquired by the assessee
by making the payment of Rs.4 crores to Mr. Vishwanathan. The Court after
considering the aforesaid decisions and the decision of the Supreme Court in
CIT vs Coal Shipment (supra) held that the length of time over which
competition was eliminated was an important factor but not the decisive
factor. The High Court, while concurring with the view expressed by the
Supreme Court in Coal Shipment (supra) held that the purpose and the intended
object of the payment was the most important test for determining whether
expenditure was capital or revenue in nature. The relevant observations of the
Court, while upholding the order of the Tribunal and dismissing the appeal of
the Revenue are as under:
> ―Learned counsel for the assessee pointed out, and we think rightly, that
> the length of time for which the competition was eliminated was important in
> the facts of that case, but that is not always so. What is more necessary to
> appreciate is the purpose of the payment and its intended object and effect.
> In CIT v. Coal Shipments P. Ltd. [1971] 82 ITR 902, the Supreme Court noted
> the contention of the Revenue to the effect that payments made to eliminate
> competition were capital expenditure. Rejecting this contention, it was held
> on page 909 of the Report as follows:
> "The case which has been set up on behalf of the Revenue is that, as the
> object of making the payments in question was to eliminate competition of a
> rival exporter, the benefit which enured to the respondent was of an
> enduring nature and, as such, the payment should be treated as capital
> expenditure. We find ourselves unable to accede to this contention because
> we find that the arrangement between the respondent and M/s. H.V. Low and
> Co. Ltd. was not for any fixed term but could be terminated at any time at
> the volition of any of the parties. Although an enduring benefit need not be
> of an ever-lasting character, it should not, at the same time, be so
> transitory and Page | 15 ephemeral that it can be terminated at any time at
> the volition of any of the parties. Any other view would have the effect of
> rendering the word 'enduring' to be meaningless. No cogent ground or valid
> reason has been given to us in support of the contention that, even though
> the benefit from the arrangement to the respondent may not be of a permanent
> or enduring nature, the payments made in pursuance of that arrangement would
> still be capital expenditure."
> Dealing with the contention that eliminating competition over some length of
> time is important, the Supreme Court held as follows:
> ―Although we agree that payment made to ward off competition in business to
> a rival dealer would constitute capital expenditure if the object of making
> that payment is to derive an advantage by eliminating the competition over
> some length of time, the same result would not follow if there is no
> certainty of the duration of the advantage and the same can be put to an end
> at any time. How long the period of contemplated advantage should be in
> order to constitute enduring benefit would depend upon the circumstances and
> the facts of each individual case.‖ It is quite clear from the above that to
> decide whether an expenditure of this nature is a capital expenditure or not
> would depend on the facts of the case. However, it is necessary to know
> whether the advantage derived by the payer is of an enduring nature, and for
> this one of the considerations is the length of time for which the non-
> compete agreement would operate although that is not decisive. While the
> length of time for which competition is eliminated may not strictly be
> decisive in all cases, yet, at the same time, it should not be so brief as
> to virtually be transitory. ..... ..... .....
> He submitted that applying all these principles to the present case, a few
> facts stand out quite clearly. The Assessee did not acquire any Page | 16
> capital asset by making the payment of non-compete fee. It merely eliminated
> competition in the two-wheeler business, for a while. From the record, it is
> not clear how long the restrictive covenant was to last, but it was neither
> permanent nor ephemeral. In that sense, the advantage was not of an enduring
> nature. There is also nothing to show that the amount of Rs. 4 crores was
> drawn out of the capital of the Assessee. On a cumulative appreciation of
> these facts, it must be held that the CIT (A) and the Tribunal did not err
> in concluding that the payment of non-compete fee by the Assessee was a
> business expenditure and not a capital expenditure.‖(emphasis supplied) In
> conclusion, the Hon'ble Delhi Court held that by making payment of non-
> compete fee the assessee did not acquire any capital asset and, therefore,
> such expenditure could not be treated as capital expenditure. The SLP filed
> by the Revenue against the aforesaid decision of the Hon'ble Delhi Court in
> CIT vs Eicher Ltd: SLP(Civil) 7005 of 2009 was dismissed by the Supreme
> Court vide order dated 20.03.2009 . he also submitted that to the same
> effect are the following decisions: -
         i.       CIT vs. Lahoty Bros: 19 ITR 425 (Cal)
         ii.      CIT vs. Nchanga Consolidated Copper Mines Ltd : 58 ITR
                  241 (PC)
         iii.     Commissioner of Income-tax vs Late G D Naidu and Ors :
                  [1987] 165 ITR 63 (Mad)
         iv.      Asianet Communications Ltd. vs. CIT: 257 Taxman 473
                  (Mad)
         v.       PCIT vs. Six Sigma Gases India Pvt. Ltd.: ITA No. 1259 of
                  2016 (Bom) DCIT vs McDowell & Co Ltd : 291 ITR 107
                  (Kar HC)
         vi.      Champion Engineering Works Ltd vs Commissioner of
> Income-tax, Bombay City-I : [1971] 81 ITR 273 (Bom) vii. Commissioner of
> Income-tax vs Bowrisankara Steam Ferry Co : [1973] 87 ITR 650 (AP) viii. CIT
> vs. Max India Ltd.: ITA No. 193 of 2013 (P&H HC) Page | 17 viii. He Further
> submitted that Honourable Madras High Court in the case of M/s Carborandum
> Universal Limited vs JCIT: 26 taxmann.com 268, held that expenditure on
> payment of non-compete fees providing enduring benefit to the payer, but
> incurred wholly and exclusively for business purposes was revenue in nature
> and allowable business deduction. In that case, the assessee, pursuant to
> amalgamation, entered into non-compete agreement with the former Chairman
> and Managing Director of one of the amalgamating companies, who was having
> access to all information of process, knowhow, clientele of the products
> dealt with, etc. and was in a position to influence business of the
> amalgamating entity taken over by the assessee. The aforesaid non-compete
> agreement laid down restrictive covenants to the effect that the relevant
> employee of one of the amalgamating companies shall not manufacture directly
> or indirectly any of the specified products and shall not deal with the said
> products in any manner or advise, assist, aid, either directly or
> indirectly, any competitor or any other person in either establishing,
> managing, promoting or developing the business of the said products or any
> product similar thereto. The agreement also provided that the said employee
> shall not act as a Consultant or use any knowhow, design or drawings
> directly or indirectly and refrain from disclosing or divulging any
> information relating to the knowhow, trade practices, etc. The agreement was
> to be effective for a period of five years from the date of the agreement.
> Pursuant thereto, a non-compete agreement was entered into between the
> assessee and the said employee, placing covenant on the employee to not to,
> in any manner, assist any third party, or sell or render advise or act as a
> Consultant in respect of the specified products. This agreement was also
> effective for a period of five years. The amount of non-compete fees paid by
> assessee to such employee of amalgamating companies was claimed as deduction
> in the year of payment. However, the assessing officer rejected the claim of
> the assessee on the ground that the said employee was the erstwhile Chairman
> and Managing Director of the amalgamating company and such non-compete
> agreement had Page | 18 increased the assessee's market presence and
> improved its potential to have better results in the market. The assessing
> officer further held that the non-compete payment made for a period of five
> years was for procuring an enduring benefit to the business and accordingly,
> disallowed the claim of the assessee. On appeal, the CIT (A) and Tribunal
> affirmed the order of the assessing officer. On further appeal, the High
> Court holding in favour of the assessee observed, as under:
> ―19. It is not denied by the Revenue that U.Mohanrao was the Chairman and
> Managing Director of some of the companies which got merged with the
> assessee company. The said U.Mohanrao had access to all information starting
> from manufacturing process, knowhow to the clientele and the products,
> including the pricing of the products. By a process of amalgamation, the
> assessee had acquired the business of the amalgamating companies. However,
> for the fruitful exercise of its business as a business proposition, the
> assessee thought it fit to enter into a non-compete agreement with a person
> who had the knowledge of the entire operations, so as to get the full yield
> of the amalgamated company's business.
> In that context, rightly, the assessee took a commercial decision to pay
> non-compete fee to U.Mohanrao and going by the decision of the Apex Court,
> particularly the decision reported in [1971] 82 ITR 902 (CIT Vs. Coal
> Shipments P. Ltd (S.C.)), that the payment was in respect of the performing
> of the business of the assessee, we have no hesitation in holding that the
> expenditure is only on revenue account and not on capital account. In the
> circumstances, we accept the case of the assessee, set aside the order of
> the Tribunal and allow the Tax Case.‖ (emphasis supplied) ix. It is
> submitted that the facts of the aforesaid cases have striking similarity to
> the facts of the appellant's case. In the present case, the Page | 19 non-
> compete fees was paid to obtain commercial advantage in the form of GSL
> agreeing to manufacture products for the appellant. Such payment merely
> facilitated carrying on business more profitably and efficiently, while
> leaving the fixed assets or profit earning apparatus or profit earning
> capacity of the appellant untouched. Payment described as non-compete fee
> did not bring into existence any capital asset or advantage of enduring
> benefit in the capital field and, therefore, such expenditure cannot be
> treated as capital expenditure. On the other hand, as explained above, the
> expenditure only helped in maintaining profitability of the business/
> assets/ apparatus already in existence and therefore, was revenue
> expenditure allowable as deduction under section 37(1) of the Act. It is
> submitted that on application of the tests laid down by the Supreme Court,
> the payment in question was clearly on revenue account and an admissible
> business deduction.
14\. The ld DR vehemently supported the orders of the lower authorities and
submitted that assessee has entered into an agreement to get the product
manufactured as ―Havells Polstar' in specified number of years and also paid a
sum of Rs. 5 lakhs which is not only to GSL but to the partner of GS
Electricals and shareholders of GSL Electrical as per non compete fee
agreement coupled with the fact that the assessee has also invested 24% in the
capital of the above company. These facts cannot be looked into isolation but
clearly shows that it is a purchase of ‗Polstar' business of GSL group, the
IPR of which is also transferred to Group Company of the assessee, which
clearly shows that the non compete fee paid is capital expenditure.
15\. He further stated that the judicial precedent cited by the ld Addll. CIT
in his 144A direction and the ld CIT (A) in his order are neither
distinguished nor challenged by the ld AR and therefore, same are accepted and
therefore claim of the assessee that it is revenue expenditure cannot be
allowed.
16\. He further stated that the alternative submission of the assessee that
depreciation on it should be allowed clearly shows that non compete fee paid
is capital expenditure. He further submitted that the ld AR has cited the
decision, however, none of them applies to the facts of the case.
Page | 20
17\. With respect to the claim of depreciation on the same he submitted that
it has to satisfy specified the conditions of section 32 of the Act and then
only the depreciation on it, if eligible, can be allowed. He submitted that
before us neither the ld AR has shown that how the non compete fees is an
eligible asset for depreciation nor these contentions have been raised before
the lower authorities. Therefore, it cannot be accepted now and allowed.
18\. We have carefully considered the rival contention and perused the orders
of the lower authorities. The facts show that appellant has entered into three
agreements on 11.09.2003.
i. The first agreement entered into as ‗Assignment deed‖ between Krishan
Mehtra, Shyam Mehta as partners of GS Electricals (a partnership firm) and GS
Lightings Pvt. Ltd in favour of QRG Enterprises Ltd, which is a wholly owned
subsidiary of the appellant. According to that agreement trade mark of brand
‗Polstar' registered in the name of Shri Kishan Mehta and Mr. Shyam Mehta who
are partners of GS Electronics for electrical lighting, fittings and fixtures,
the above trade mark was assigned by that partnership firm to M/s. GS
Lightings Pvt. Ltd by deed of assignment dated 17.08.2002 for a agreed
consideration. According to that agreement above trademark was assigned to
M/s. GS Lightings Pvt. Ltd. This fact is recorded in the preamble to the
assignment deed. M/s. GS Lightings entered into an MOU dated 01.08.2003 with
appellant group, has agreed to transfer this in favour of QRG Enterprises Ltd
for Rs. 5 lakhs. The consideration was paid by QRG Enterprises Ltd on
11.08.2003. Thus, by the assignment deed the partnership firm along with their
partners and GS Lightings Pvt. Ltd conveyed all its rights in the above
trademark of ‗Polstar' to QRG Enterprises. Thus, the assignee i.e. QRG
Enterprises Ltd became full owner of the brand ‗Polstar'. The details of
design and trademark are part of the annexure 2 and 3 of the assignment deed.
ii. Second agreement was entered into as ‗Manufacturing agreement' on
11.09.2003 between appellant and GS Lightings Pvt. Ltd. According to that, GS
Lights during the continuation of this agreement agreed to manufacture
exclusively the ‗Polstar' Brand accessories for the Page | 21 appellant. In
that agreement, reference of acquisition of trademark and design in favour of
the QRG was mentioned. As per para No. 4 of the agreement, the GSL and its
shareholders undertook not to use the above trademark during the continuation
of this agreement and even after the termination thereof. The action was also
taken by GSL to withdraw approval granted to it even on the expiry of the
termination of the agreement for manufacturing of the above products. The
manufacturing agreement further divested GSL with any right in the above
‗Polstar' products in consideration of this appellant agreed to remunerate the
GSL on cost plus basis. The tenure of the agreement started from the effective
date and shall remain in force until 12 months advance notice of termination
by either party. There is also a lock in period for three years for issue of
such notice. Thus only after three years period, 12 months notice is required
by either party to terminate it.
iii. Third agreement, Simultaneously a non-compete agreement was also entered
on the same date between the appellant on one part and GS Lightings Pvt. Ltd,
Mr. Krishan Mehta himself and other shareholders of GSL Lightings Pvt. Ltd on
the other part. According to that all the other parties representing GSL
Lightings Pvt. Ltd , G S Electricals, Shareholders of GS Lighting Pvt Ltd were
collectively referred to as ―GSL‖. They also agreed to not to compete with
respect to the product manufactured by GSL [naturally, as GSL was to
manufacture for appellant] or appellant. It also prohibits them to carry out
such business by forming any subsidiary or associated companies or a firm,
which are to compete with the product manufactured by GSL or appellant. All
existing shareholders and their family members also bound them to not to do
any such activity. In consideration for doing so GSL and its shareholders
authorized Mr. Krishan Mehta to receive consideration on their behalf for non
competition. A sum was paid of Rs. 5 lakhs on 11.08.2003 which is held by the
revenue authorities as capital expenditure.
19\. First argument of the ld AR is that the appellant under non competitive
agreement was in essence part and parcel of exclusive manufacturing Page | 22
agreement which was entered into merely to derive commercial advantage in the
form of assured manufacturing and supply from GSL. This argument cannot be
accepted for the reason that assessee is a group who has acquired trade mark
and design and also obtained the manufacturing facilities of GSL Ltd which
prevented the GSL, a partnership firm and all its shareholders from not
competing in the business of manufacturing of electrical items. The non-
competition charges paid by the assessee are part of the whole transaction of
acquisition of a brand, obtaining manufacturing facilities of GSL Ltd on cost
plus basis and prevented all the shareholders and their family members in
warding competition with the appellant. Therefore, it cannot be said that the
non compete fees is merely to obtain the manufacturing facilities. The
assessee in sum in substance acquired the whole ‗Polstar' business of the GSL
and warding off the competition of the appellant for a long time. [ Minimum
being 4 years] The assessee relied upon the decision of the Hon'ble Supreme
Court in CIT Vs. Coal Shipment Pvt. Ltd 82 ITR 902 to support his contention.
The facts in that case shows that assessee entered into an arrangement with
another company engaged in the same line of shipping business to prohibit that
company for export of coal to Burma during the agreement. However, that
company also to assist assessee in procurement of coal for shipment to Burma.
The assessee carried on coal shipping business and would pay specified amount
per ton of coal shipped to Burma. Incidentally, the last coal shipment was
made in June 1954 and the arrangement ended. The non compete fee paid was
hooked to the volume of the coal shipped to Burma. The Hon'ble Supreme Court
has categorically held that the payment made to ward off competition in
business to a rival dealer would constitute capital expenditure, if the object
of making that payment is to derive an advantage eliminating the competition
over some length of time, the same result would not follow if there is no
certainty of the duration of the advantage and the same can be put to an end
at any time. It is further held that how long the period of contemplated
advantage should be in order to constitute an enduring benefit would depend
upon the circumstances and facts of each individual case. Comparing the facts
of that case with the case before us, it is apparent that payment of non
compete fees was connected to acquisition of ‗Polestar' Page | 23 brand and
favour of QRG Enterprises. Therefore, it was a sale of the brand. The tenure
of the manufacturing agreement was also till it gets cancelled i.e. Minimum 4
years. Even the notice period could not be given before the lock in time of
three years. During the course of hearing bench asked a specific query to the
counsel of the assessee that whether the agreement of manufacturing is ever
terminated, if yes, when, ld AR did not produce any details / agreements etc.
Assessee was also asked to produce the memorandum of Understanding referred to
in various agreements, it was also not produced. Therefore, it is apparent
that the object of making that payment is definitely for considerable length
of time. In view of this, the decision in fact supports the case of the
revenue.
20\. The assessee also relied on the decision of the Hon'ble Delhi High Court
in CIT Vs. Eicher Ltd 302 ITR 249. In that particular case, two similar
manufacturers paid the non compete fees to its full time employee who entered
into an agreement with another company to promote it and set up manufacturing
facilities for two wheelers on his retirement from assessee company. The
management of the assessee company came to know of this, assessee paid a sum
of Rs. 4 crores for not to carry on any business activity with regard to two
wheelers. The issue was whether such expenditure is revenue in nature or not.
The Hon'ble Court held that while the length of the time for which competition
is eliminated may not directly be decisive in all the cases but at the same
time it should not be so prove to be virtual transitory. In that, particular
case the Hon'ble Court held that the assessee has merely eliminated
competition in the two wheelers business, for a while. Therefore, it was held
that the payment was not of enduring nature. In the present case, the
appellant's advantage is ‗not for a while' but for long period. Thus, the
facts of that case are distinguishable.
21\. The assessee also relied on the decision of the Hon'ble Madras High Court
in Carborandum Universal Limited Vs. JCIT 226 Taxmann 268. The facts of that
case was with respect to non compete fees paid to an ex manager who was
chairman and managing director of one of the amalgamating company. The
assessee paid the above sum to a person who had enjoyed knowledge of the
entire operation. In that particular case there were no acquisition of any
brand or other intellectual property right as well as the non compete fees
Page | 24 was not paid to the company and all other stakeholder as in the
present case.
22\. The assessee also relied upon the decision of the CIT Vs. Max India Ltd.
In ITA No. 193/ 2013 dated 06.08.2018 of Hon'ble Punjab and Haryana High
Court, in that particular case the non compete expenses paid to an ex-
employee restraining him in doing particular business for a particular time.
The Hon'ble Court held that since on the issue whether the expenditure was
revenue or capital in nature, two opinions were possible and therefore, the
view taken by the ld CIT (A) was upheld. The court also noted that the non
compete fee was paid to safeguard the business interest as strategic investor
in the joint venture agreement, assessee has obligation to them [JV Partners]
that neither the assessee nor any of its employees get into competing
business. In those circumstances, it was held to be expenses out of
―commercial expediency‖. In the present case manner of acquisition of business
of 3rd parties with its manufacturing facilities and warding off the
competition of all the concerned persons including the family members of the
stake holders clearly shows that expense of the Non compete fees is capital in
nature. Therefore, the facts are distinguishable. More so, in the present case
the assessee has acquired an enduring benefit of a business.
23\. Similarly all other decision relied upon by the assessee have
distinguishing facts and hence same were considered while deciding the issue.
The ld AR also did not distinguish the various decision relied up on by the
lower authorities.
24\. Though assessee has made a treatise of the judicial precedents on
allowability of non compete fees as revenue expenditure, however he missed out
Judicially binding precedent of the Hon Delhi High court in case of Sharp
Business System Versus Commissioner Of Income Tax 27 Taxman.Com 50 (Delhi)
which clearly covers the issue is squarely covered in favour of revenue. In
that case the issue before the honourable High Court was whether the non
compete fee paid by the assessee to its erstwhile partner as a consideration
for not setting up any business of selling marketing and trade of electronic
office products for a period of seven years amounted to capital expenditure
and the same was not allowable u/s 37 (1) of the act. The honourable High
Court after considering the plethora of Page | 25 judicial precedents
including the judicial precedents cited by the assessee before us, held in
para number 9 - 10 of its decision that the non compete fees paid by the
assessee is a capital expenditure as Under:-
> "9. It can be gathered from the previous discussion that the assessee
> claimed deduction, as revenue expenditure, the sum of Rs.3 crores, paid by
> it to L&T, towards non- competing fee. The agreement between the assessee
> and L&T by which the latter was not to compete with the assessee, was to
> subsist for seven years. This Court is conscious of the fact that the ruling
> in Empire Jute Co. Ltd. ( supra) and Alembic Chemical Works Co. Ltd. (supra)
> have emphasized that a single test, i.e. whether the payment results in an
> enduring benefit cannot be conclusive in a decision as to whether an
> expenditure qualifies as one falling or in the capital field. Those
> decisions have emphasized the need to shift from an narrower field to a
> broader one, to ascertain the real nature of the advantage which a tax-payer
> would derive. The test now well-settled is one of ascertaining whether from
> the commercial angle, the advantage results in a capital field or does the
> expenditure fall legitimately within the revenue field. The decisions such
> as Madras Auto Service (P) Ltd. ( supra) have no doubt emphasized that the
> length or duration of the benefit accruing to the assessee may at times be
> irrelevant. In that case, the Court was concerned with the duration of the
> lease. At the same time, even while accepting the contentions of the
> assessee, the Supreme Court had cautioned that if an advantage accrues in a
> short span of time or is "epheramal", it cannot be considered a capital
> benefit qualifying as a capital expenditure. Necessarily, therefore, the
> Court has to adopt a fact-based approach and apply settled proposition. In
> the present case, the advantage which the assessee/appellant derived on
> account of its agreement with L&T was that the latter, a previous joint-
> venture partner to the extent of 26% was kept put out of the market for a
> period of 7 years. In this context, the decision in Blaze & Central (P) Ltd.
> v. CIT [1979] 120 ITR 33/1 Taxman 546 (Mad.), the decision of the Madras
> High Court is instructive. The assessee had entered into an agreement with
> one Saraswati Publicities by which the latter agreed to part with its
> business of film exhibition shots and not to compete with the assessee in
> business within a specified territory for nine years. The Supreme Court's
> decision in Coal Shipments (P.) Ltd. (supra) was relied upon and the High
> Court ruled that the assessee warded off business rivalry for nine years and
> also acquired business in a specified area and, therefore, the acquisition
> of business that generated income or the expenditure led out for Page | 26
> fighting competition had to be treated as capital. The observations in
> Eicher Ltd. (supra) no doubt favour the assessee; however, this Court
> notices that the judgment recorded also noticed that "it is not clear how
> long the restrictive covenants was to last but it was neither permanent or
> epheramal. In that sense, the advantage was not of an enuring nature." This
> Court in another decision, Pitney Bowes India (P) Ltd. v. CIT [2012] 204
> Taxman 333 / 17 taxmann.com 116 (Delhi) held that the expenditure of Rs.
> 5,94 crores made an non-competing fees for a limited period of 5 years to a
> distributor not to enter into agreements with other concerns, paid at the
> time of acquisition of business from its erstwhile manager as acting
> concern, requiring the previous management not to enter into identical
> business. The Court had held that the deduction towards non-competing fee
> could not be allowed as it conferred a capital advantage.
> 10\. In the present case, the appellant is a joint-venture between M/s.
> Sharp & L&T. Apparently, the agreement entered into with the L&T in view of
> the changed relationship ensures that the latter does not enter into the
> same business. Although it is contended that the advantage is only by way of
> facilitation of the appellant's business and ensuring greater efficiency as
> well as profitability, on the other side, what can be seen is that the
> arrangement is to endure for a substantial period, i.e. 7 years. Coupled
> with the fact that the L&T has its own presence in consumer goods sector and
> would be, if it chooses - able to put up an effective competition for
> business engaged in by the assessee, there is no doubt that the amount is to
> ensure a certain position in the market by keeping-out L&T. Applying the
> test indicated in the Empire Jute Co. Ltd. ( supra), Alembic Chemical Works
> Co. Ltd. (supra) and Coal Shipments (P.) Ltd. ( supra), this Court is the
> opinion that the deduction cannot be claimed as a revenue expenditure; it
> clearly falls within the capital field. The first two questions are,
> therefore, answered against the assessee and in favour of the Revenue.‖
25\. In view of the decision of the honourable jurisdictional High Court that
non compete fees paid by the assessee is a capital expenditure, respectfully
following the same, we also hold that the non compete fee paid by the assessee
of ₹ 5 lakhs has correctly been held to be capital expenditure by the lower
authorities. Accordingly, this ground of appeal is dismissed holding that, in
the facts and circumstances of this case, non compete fee is capital
expenditure.
Page | 27
26\. In the end, without prejudice he stated that if in the instance non
compete fee is held to be capital in nature then the ld AO may be directed to
allow depreciation thereon. For this proposition, also he referred to the
decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in 225 ITR 802 and also on following
decision stating that depreciation is an admissible allowance on non compete
fees. He submitted Without prejudice to the aforesaid, that in the instance
the aforesaid payment of non-compete fee is held to be capital in nature, then
in alternate, the assessing officer may be directed to either allow
depreciation or amortization on/ of the said amount in terms of the provision
of the Act [Refer Madras Industrial Investment Corp 225 ITR 802 (SC)].
Reliance in this regard is placed on the following decisions wherein
depreciation has been held to be admissible on non-compete fees: -
> i. Pitney Bowes India vs. CIT: 204 Taxman 333(Del) ii. Pentasoft
> Technologies Ltd vs. DCIT: 222 Taxman 209 (Mad) iii. CIT vs. Ingersoll Rand
> International India Ltd: 227 Taxman 176 (Kar) iv. PCIT vs. Sapa Extrusion
> India Pvt Ltd: ITA. No.680 of 2019 (Kar) v. PCIT vs. Ferromatic Milacron
> India (P.) Ltd.: 99 taxmann.com 154 (Guj) vi. PCIT vs. Piramal Glass
> Limited: ITA No. 556 of 2017 (Bom) vii. Vossloh Schwabe India Pvt. Ltd vs.
> DCIT: ITA No. 3566 of 2011 (Mum ITAT) Therefore it is in the alternate ld AR
> submitted that if in the instance non-
compete fee is held be capital in nature then consequentially depreciation may
be directed to be allowed in terms of section 32(1)(ii) of the Act.
27\. The learned departmental representative vehemently opposed the above
submission and stated that for claiming of the depreciation the assessee must
prove the ownership of the asset, user of the said for the purpose of the
business and the actual cost. Over and above, the assessee must satisfy that
the said on which depreciation is claimed is the eligible asset u/s 32 of the
income tax act. He submitted that claim of depreciation on the same satisfying
the conditions of section 32 of the Act, if eligible, can be allowed. He
submitted that before us, neither the ld AR has shown that how the non Page |
28 compete fees is an eligible asset for depreciation nor these contentions
have been raised before the lower authorities. Therefore, it cannot be
accepted now and allowed.
28\. We have carefully considered the rival contention and perused the orders
of the lower authorities. This claim has been raised by the assessee before
the ITAT for the first time. However the issue is also covered against the
assessee by the decision of the honourable Delhi High Court in Sharp Business
System Versus Commissioner Of Income Tax (Supra) wherein in para number 11 -
13 the honourable High Court considered the alternative argument on identical
facts and circumstances and has a held as Under:-
> ―Q. Nos. 2 and 3 In Tangible Asset -
> 11\. This question arose as a direct sequel to the appellant's alternative
> submission that if the expenditure is treated as a conferring capital
> advantage, necessarily they are depreciable. The appellant claims for
> depreciation of "know-how", "patents", "copyrights", "trademarks",
> "licenses", "franchises" or other business or commercial rights of similar
> nature being intangible assets acquired on or after 1st day of April 1998.
> Arguing by analogy, learned counsel for the appellant relied upon the
> judgment of the Supreme Court in Techno Shares & Stocks Ltd. (supra) where
> the issue was whether the contention of the assessee that it could claim
> depreciation on the Bombay Stock Exchange Membership Card held by it on the
> plea that it was a license or "business or commercial right of similar
> nature" was upheld. The appellant also relied upon the decision of this
> Court in Hindustan Coca Cola Beverages (P.) Ltd.
(supra) and the judgement of the Kerala High Court in B. Raveendran Pillai v.
CIT [2011] 332 ITR 531 /[2010] 194 Taxman 477 . As would be evident from
Section 32(1)(ii), depreciation can be allowed in respect of intangible
assets. Parliament has spelt-out the nature of such assets by express
reference to 'know-how', 'patents', 'copyrights', 'trademarks', 'licenses' and
'franchises'. So far as patents, copyrights, trademarks, licenses and
franchises are concerned, though they are intangible assets, the law
recognizes through various enactments that specific intellectual property
rights flow from them. Licenses are derivative and often are the means of
conferring such intellectual property rights. The enjoyment of such
intellectual property right implies exclusion of others, who do not own or
have license to such rights from using them in any manner whatsoever.
Similarly, in the matter of franchises and know-how, the primary brand or
intellectual process owner owns the exclusive right to produce, retail and
distribute the products and the advantages flowing from such brand or
intellectual process owner, but for the grant of such know-how rights or
franchises. In other words, out of these species of intellectual property like
rights or advantages lead to the definitive assertion of a right in rem. The
decisions of this Court in Hindustan Coca Cola Beverages (P.) Ltd. (supra) and
that of the Page | 29 Kerala High Court in B. Raveendran Pillai ( supra)
underlined that goodwill is also a species of depreciable right which can
claim the benefit of Section 32. Those decisions were based on the ruling of
the Supreme Court in CIT v. B.C. Srinivasa Setty [1981] 128 ITR 294/5 Taxman 1
and subsequent cases which have ruled that goodwill is a depreciable capital
asset. So far as the decisions in Techno Shares & Stocks Ltd. (supra) is
concerned, the Supreme Court clearly limited its holding that the right to
membership of Stock Exchange is in the nature of "any other business or
commercial right" which was an intangible asset as is evident from the
following observations: "Before concluding we wish to clarify that our present
judgment is strictly confined to the right to membership conferred upon the
membership under the BSE Membership Card during the relevant assessment years.
We hold that the said right to membership is "business or commercial activity"
which gives a non-defaulting continuing membership and right to access
Exchange and to participate therein and in that sense it is a license or akin
to a license, in terms of Section 32(1)(ii)."
12\. It is, therefore, apparent that the ruling in Techno Shares & Stocks Ltd.
( supra) was concerned with an extremely limited controversy, i.e.
depreciability of stock exchange membership. This Court observes that such
nature was held to be akin to a license because it enable the member, for the
duration of the membership, to access the Stock Exchange. Undoubtedly, it
conferred a business advantage and was an asset which and was clearly an
intangible asset. The question here, however, is whether a non-compete right
of the kind acquired by the assessee against L&T for seven years amounts to a
depreciable intangible asset. As discussed earlier, each of the species of
rights spelt-out in Section 32(1)(ii), i.e. know-how, patent, copyright,
trademark, license or franchise as or any other right of a similar kind which
confers a business or commercial or any other business or commercial right of
similar nature has to be "intangible asset". The nature of these rights
mentioned clearly spell- out an element of exclusivity which enures to the
assessee as a sequel to the ownership. In other words, but for the ownership
of the intellectual property or know-how or license or franchise, it would be
unable to either access the advantage or assert the right and the nature of
the right mentioned or spelt-out in the provision as against the world at
large or in legal parlance "in rem". However, in the case of a non-competition
agreement or covenant, the advantage is a restricted one, in point of time. It
does not necessarily - and not in the facts of this case, confer any exclusive
right to carry-on the primary business activity. The right can be asserted in
the present instance only against L&T and in a sense, the right "in personam".
Indeed, the 7 years period spelt-out by the non-competing covenant brings the
advantage within the public policy embedded in Section 27 of the Contract Act,
which enjoins a contract in restraint of trade would otherwise be void.
Another way of looking at the issue is whether such rights can be treated or
transferred - a proposition fully supported by the controlling object clause,
i.e. intangible asset. Every species of right spelt-out expressly by the
Statute - i.e. of the Page | 30 intellectual property right and other
advantages such as know-how, franchise, license etc. and even those considered
by the Courts, such as goodwill can be said to be alienable. Such is not the
case with an agreement not to compete which is purely personal. As a
consequence, it is held that the contentions of the assessee are without
merit; this question too is answered against the appellant and in favour of
the Revenue.
13\. For the above reasons, this Court is of the opinion that the words
"similar business or commercial rights" have to necessarily result in an
intangible asset against the entire world which can be asserted as such to
qualify for depreciation under Section 32(1)(ii) of the Act.‖
29\. Therefore, in view of the decision of the honourable jurisdictional High
Court, on the identical facts and circumstances, holding that non- compete
fees is not eligible for depreciation u/s 32 of the income tax act, further,
the above decision has considered the decision of the honourable Delhi High
Court in case of Pitney Bowse ( I) Pvt Ltd 204 taxman 333 (Delhi),[ which is
relied upon by the ld AR], we respectfully following that decision dismiss the
alternative contentions of the assessee for the claim of depreciation. In view
of this ground number [2] of the appeal of the assessee is dismissed.
30\. Ground number [3] of the appeal of the assessee is against the order of
the learned CIT - A in not allowing the interest income earned amounting to ₹
44,41,951 as part of the business income claimed by the appellant company. The
learned assessing officer found that assessee has claimed that interest income
of ₹ 4,441,951 which represented interest received on margin money deposited
with the banks as ‗business income' of the assessee. The learned assessing
officer held that interest income received from the bank FDRs and National
savings certificates is chargeable under the head ‗income from other sources'
and cannot be held to be ‗business income'. Furthermore, the learned assessing
officer also reduced 90% of the amount of the above interest from deduction
claimed u/s 80 HHC of the act applying explanation (baa) of that section.
31\. The ld AR vehemently assailed the orders of the lower authorities. He
submitted that appellant is engaged in the business of manufacture of energy
meters and other electrical items. The energy meters are supplied to various
electricity boards throughout the country, the supplies are made against open
tenders, and bank guarantees furnished to buyers against earnest money /
performance guarantees. The letter of credits is opened to Page | 31 import
the materials required for manufacturing. During the relevant assessment year,
the appellant received an amount of Rs. 46,78,544, out of which interest
income of Rs. 41,93,072 on FDRs pledged with banks towards margin money
against bank guarantees / letter of credits and against public deposits. In
this regard, it is submitted that interest income in the case of the appellant
is inextricably connected with the business of the appellant; hence, it should
be included in the profit of the business for claiming deduction under section
80HHC of the Act. Assessee supported its contentions by relying on decision of
Honourable Supreme Court in the case of CIT vs Alfa Laval India Ltd.: 295 ITR
451, wherein it has been held that interest from customers is to be included
as business profits for computation of deduction under section 80HHC of the
Act. He also relied up on decisions wherein it has been held that interest
income earned on margin money, when inextricably linked with the business of
the assessee, will be assessable as business income:
> i. Pr. CIT v. Universal Precision Screws: ITA 392/2015 (Del.) ii. CIT v. K
> & Co.: 364 ITR 93 (Del.) iii. CIT v. Koshika Telecom Ltd.: 287 ITR 479
> (Del.) iv. CIT v. Infosys Technologies Ltd: 352 ITR 74(Karn) v. CIT vs.
> Sociedade de Fomento Industrial Ltd.: 237 CTR 141(Bom) vi. Mrs. Saroj
> Dassani v. ACIT: [2008] 25 SOT 1 (DELHI)(URO) (Del. Trib.)/99 TTJ 345 vii.
> Voltas International Ltd. v. ACIT: 2 ITR (Trib.) 410 (Mum. Trib.) viii.
> Oasis Securities Ltd. v. DCIT: [2013] 36 taxmann.com 88 (Mum. Trib.)/59 SOT
> 302 ix. ITO v. Midas Touch Exports: [2005] 1 SOT 553 (Mum. Trib.) x. DDIT v.
> Samsung Engg Co. Ltd.: [2011] 43 SOT 38 (Mum.) (URO) xi. SMS
> Pharmaceuticals Ltd. vs. DCIT: [2014] : 32 ITR(T) 220 xii. Mitsu Ltd. v.
> Asstt. CIT: 142 ITD 157(Ahd.)
32\. He further submitted in following decisions it has been held that
interest income earned on delayed or overdue payment from customers is
assessable Page | 32 as profits and gains from business for computing
deduction under Chapter VI-A of the Act:
> i. CIT v. Govinda Choudhury and Sons.: 203 ITR 881 (SC) ii. CIT vs. Jindal
> Polyester And Steel Ltd.: 221 Taxman 30 (All) iii. Nirma Industries Ltd. v.
> DCIT: 283 ITR 402 (Guj) (SLP dismissed/rejected):
> iv. CIT v. Madras Motors Ltd: 257 ITR 60 (Mad): 80HH and 80I v. CIT v. Rane
> (Madras) Ltd.: 238 ITR 377 (Mad): 80I vi. CIT v. Indo Matsushita Carbon Co.
> Ltd.: 286 ITR 201 (Mad):
> 80HH vii. Tata Sponge Iron Ltd. v. CIT: 292 ITR 175 (Orissa): 80HH viii.
> JCIT v. Sidheshwari Paper Udyog Ltd.: 94 ITD 187 (Del.
> Trib.) (TM): 80IA 145 taxman 22 ix. Joyco India P. Ltd. v. ITO: [2009] 122
> TTJ 940 (Del. Trib.):
> 80IA x. G. S. C. Toughened Glass P. Ltd.: 13 SOT 668 (Del. Trib.) xi.
> Kirloskar Electrodyne Ltd. v. DCIT: 87 ITD 264 (Pune Trib.) xii. Asst. CIT
> v. Biotech Medicals P. Ltd.: 119 ITD 143 (Hyd Trib.) 17 xiii. CIT vs
> Universal Pipes (P) Ltd.: 211 Taxman 420 (Gauhati)
33\. The learned departmental representative vehemently supported the order of
the learned CIT - A stating that fixed deposit receipt and National savings
certificate interest cannot be regarded as business income and has to be
treated as income from other sources. He further submitted that they cannot
also be considered as income derived from export of goods for the purpose of
Section 80 HHC of the income tax act. He further stated that the various
decisions relied upon by the learned authorised representative are related to
the income derived from the industrial undertaking and there is difference
between the wording is of Section 80 HH C and 80 HH and 80 I of the income tax
act. He therefore submitted that there is no error in the order of the lower
authorities in reducing 90% of interest income, which is provided in the
Section itself to be excluded from the income derived from export of goods.
Page | 33
34\. We have carefully considered the rival contention and perused the orders
of the lower authorities. A bare reading of cl. (baa) (1) of Section 80 HHC
indicates that receipts by way of brokerage, commission, interest, rent,
charges etc., formed part of gross total income being business profits. But,
for the purposes of working out the formula and in order to avoid distortion
of arriving export profits cl. (baa) stood inserted to say that although
incentive profits and ‗independent incomes' constituted part of gross total
income, they had to be excluded from gross total income because such receipts
had no nexus with the export turnover. The explanation given by the assessee
clearly shows that energy meters are supplied to various electricity boards
throughout the country and the supplies are made against open tenders and bank
guarantees furnished to buyers against earnest money/ performance guarantees.
The letter of credits is opened to import the materials required for
manufacturing. Therefore, such interest income is related to letter of credit
for import of the material for which various bank guarantees are obtained
against the placement of fixed deposits and the National savings certificates.
This itself shows that such interest income does not have any relation with
the export turnover or export of goods. In view of this, we do not find any
infirmity in the orders of the lower authorities in excluding 90% of the
interest income for calculating eligible deduction u/s 80 HHC of the income
tax act.
35\. The next argument of the assessee is that if interest income is not
considered as a income derived from export of goods then at least net of the
interest received of the interest paid by the assessee should be excluded at
the rate of 90% for working out deduction u/s 80 HHC of the act. The claim of
the assessee can be summarized that interest received should be directed to be
netted off against interest paid to bank on overdraft facility. In the present
case, against interest income of Rs.46.78 lakhs, the appellant incurred
interest expenditure of Rs.14.07 cr [refer pg. 76 of PB]. For the purpose of
computing `profits of the business' under Explanation (baa) to section 80HHC
of the Act, the concept of netting of interest income with interest
expenditure has been upheld in the case of ACG Associated Capsules (P.) Ltd.
v. CIT: 343 ITR 89 (SC), it has been held that 90% of only net interest or net
rent, which has been included in the profits of business Page | 34 of assessee
as computed under the head ‗Profits and Gains of Business or Profession', is
to be deducted under clause (1) of Explanation (baa) to section 80HHC for
determining profits of business.
36\. For this proposition , he further multiplied reliance on following
decisions i. CIT vs. Paliwal Industries : 42 Taxmann.com 412 (P&H) ii. Shri
Ram Honda Power Equipments: 289 ITR 475 (Del.) iii. CIT vs Nectar Life Science
Ltd.: 203 Taxman 318 (Del.) iv. CIT v. Taj International Jewellers: 335 ITR
144 (Del.) v. CIT v UK Bose: 212 Taxman 399 (Del.) vi. CIT v. Infosys
Technologies Ltd: 352 ITR 74 (Karn) vii. CIT v. Gokkuldas Exports: 333 ITR 214
(Kar.) viii. Paramount Trading Corporation: 98 ITD 77 (Del.) (TM) He
therefore submitted that CIT(A) erred in affirming the action of assessing
officer in not reducing interest received against interest paid for computing
`profits of the business' under Explanation (baa) to section 80HHC of the Act.
37\. The learned departmental representative submitted that unless the
interest income is held to be the income chargeable under the head business
income then only net of interest paid on interest received can be considered
for the purpose of netting of. He submitted that in this case the lower
authorities have held that the above interest received by the assessee is not
a business income but income from other sources therefore; the decision relied
upon by the learned authorised representative who not apply.
38\. We have carefully considered the rival contention on this issue and find
that the assessee has received interest on margin money deposit for the
purpose of letter of credit from various banks. Therefore, it cannot be said
that there is no relationship with the business of the assessee with the
interest earned by the assessee. In fact, the interest has been received on
Fixed deposits placed for enjoying letter of credit against which the assessee
has imported the goods and therefore it is inextricably linked with the
business of the assessee. Therefore, according to us, the above interest is
chargeable to tax as business income of the assessee. The moment the above
interest is held to be chargeable Under the head business income, the issue of
netting of interest paid with interest received is squarely covered in favour
of the Page | 35 assessee by the decision of the honourable Supreme Court in
case of of ACG Associated Capsules (P.) Ltd. v. CIT: 343 ITR 89 (SC),
therefore we direct the learned assessing officer to consider 90 % of the
interest after net of the interest received and paid for the purpose of
working out of the deduction u/s 80 HHC of the act. Accordingly, this issue is
allowed in favour of the assessee.
39\. The next issue in the 3rd ground is with respect to deduction of Rs. 90%
of the amount of Rs. 6438525/- received from M/s Crabtree India Ltd towards
common office and infrastructure facilities provided. The assessee claimed the
same to be in the nature of reimbursement of expenses incurred by the
appellant. Therefore, the contention was that 90% of the same cannot be
reduced while working out deduction u/s 80HHC of the Act. During the course of
assessment proceedings in Schedule 11 AO noted that assessee has received Rs.
6438525/- from M/s. Crabtree India Ltd on account of reimbursement of common
office and infrastructure facilities availed by the such company from the
assessee company. The ld AO asked the assessee to show that how the above sum
can be ‗profits of the business'. The assessee submitted that miscellaneous
receipt shown under the head ―other income‖ are connected with the business of
the assessee company and therefore, they have taken as a profit of the
business for calculation of deduction u/s 80HHC of the Act. The ld AO noted
that reimbursement of expenses from the above company cannot be considered to
be receipt derived from export undertaken by the assessee and therefore, same
is hit by provision of explanation (baa) of section 80HHC and therefore, for
the working of eligible deduction the same is required to be reduced to the
extent of 90% from profits of the business.
40\. The assessee carried the above issue before the ld CIT(A) who held that
the appellant had received this amount as a reimbursement of certain amounts
which pertains to leasing out of premises to M/s. Crabtree India Ltd. He
further held that income from leasing out of premises cannot be considered as
business income of the appellant.
41\. The ld AR submitted that it is a reimbursement of expenditure by an
associated company, which does not have any separate infrastructure. He
therefore, submitted that mere reimbursement of expenditure not resulting Page
| 36 in any income therefore should not be excluded @90% for working out
deduction. He submitted that once such receipt is netted with the expenditure
debited in the profit and loss account the net result would be Nil income and
therefore, the same should be excluded.
42\. The ld DR vehemently submitted that the lease income could never be
termed as the business income of the assessee. Therefore, the same is
correctly excluded by the ld AO on the direction of the ld Addll. CIT u/s 144A
of the Act.
43\. We have carefully considered the rival contentions and perused the orders
of the lower authorities. The assessee has submitted at page 37 of the paper
book being an agreement between Crabtree India Ltd and assessee dated
13.03.2002. The agreement says that the assessee is having marketing
infrastructure in the form of Central and Accounts Office in Delhi and
branches in all over India and same were allowed to be used by Crabtree for
its business. For the consideration, the Crabtree shall pay 2% of the sale
amount as reimbursement towards usage of common facilities. The agreement is
effective from 01.04.2001 though executed on 13th March 2002\. Based on the
agreement and findings of the lower authorities that it is a lease rent paid
by Crabtree to the assessee, which can never be the business income of the
assessee derived from export of goods, therefore, is not eligible for
deduction u/s 80HHC of the Act. Bench raised a query to the ld AR that how the
assessee shows this is a reimbursement of rent paid or any other expenditure.
We also asked the ld AR who denied that it is rent. As the ld CIT (A) has
giving categorical finding that the above amount of receipt is rent from
Crabtree by the assessee and the same finding has not been controverted by the
appellant, we are not inclined to interfere with the finding of the lower
authorities. Even otherwise, the assessee has neither produced the debit note
issued to the Crabtree detailing what kinds of expenditures were reimbursed.
The copy of the agreement is also entered into at the fag end of the
accounting year. In absence of any detail of expenditure incurred, which was
reimbursed by Crabtree to the assessee, the argument of reimbursement of
expenses is also not tenable. Thus, we do not find any infirmity in the order
of the lower authorities. Accordingly, ground No. 3 of the appeal is partly
allowed.
Page | 37
44\. In the result the appeal of the assessee in ITA no 6072/Del/2010 for A Y
2004-05 is partly allowed.
ITA no 466/Del/2011 [ By AO] & ITA No 6073/Del/2011 [By Assessee] AY 2007-08
45\. For assessment year 2007 - 08, assessee filed its return of income
declaring an income of ₹ 427,259,528 and 27/9/2007. The assessment u/s 143 (3)
of the income tax act, 1961 was passed by the learned Deputy Commissioner of
income tax, large taxpayers unit, Delhi (the learned AO) on 30 December 2009
determining the total taxable income of Rs. 444966560/-. The learned assessing
officer made following disallowances:- i. disallowance u/s 40 (a) (i) of Rs.
26,02,844/- of payment made to foreign parties without deducting tax u/s 195
of the income tax act ii. disallowance of Rs. 175,64,366/- being provision for
scheme Shaenshah to provide incentive to the distributors of the assessee's
product iii. claim of deduction u/s 80 IC of the income tax act made by the
assessee of ₹ 645,962,957/- in the original return of income however assessee
requested for adjustment of the above deduction to ₹ 654,050,969/- by
excluding the loss of ₹ 4,488,012 of Baddi Unit - II by filing a letter dated
11 November 2009 along with the revised report in form number 10CCB ignored by
the AO but allowed the deduction of Rs. 648,221,370/-
iv. disallowance of amalgamation expenditure claimed by the assessee violator
dated 11 November 2009
46\. Assessee carried the matter before the learned CIT - A - LTU, New Delhi,
who passed an order dated 15 November 2010 wherein:-
> i. Disallowance u/s 40 (a) (i) of Rs 2602844/- was upheld ii. provision made
> for sales incentive in respect of Sahanshah scheme of Rs. 175,64,366/- was
> deleted while following his own order for assessment year 2006 - 07 Page |
> 38 iii. upheld the action of the AO in ignoring the letter dated 11 November
> 2009 of the assessee for revision in the computation of the eligible
> deduction u/s 80 IC of the income tax act holding that same was not carried
> out through a revised return.
47\. Therefore, both the parties are aggrieved with that order has preferred
an appeal before us.
48\. In ITA number 466/Del/2011 the revenue has challenged the order of the
learned CIT - A raising the solitary ground that he has erred in directing the
AO to allow provision made by the appellant of Rs. 175,64,366/- for sales
incentive in respect of Shaenshah Scheme.
49\. The learned departmental representative relied upon the order of the
learned assessing officer whereas the learned authorised representative
submitted that this issue is squarely covered in favour of the assessee by the
order of the coordinate bench for assessment year 2006 - 07 wherein the order
of the learned CIT (A), which was relied upon by the learned CIT - A in this
year has been upheld.
50\. We have carefully considered the rival contention and perused the orders
of the lower authorities. The issue of disallowance of sales incentive with
respect to the above scheme is decided by the coordinate bench in assessee's
favour for assessment year 2006 - 07 in ITA no 5530/Del/2010 dated 30/9/2019
as Under:-
> ―30. Second ground of the appeal of the Revenue relates to the deletion of
> the addition made on account of the provision for sale incentive 'Sahenshah
> Scheme". Brief facts of this aspect are that the assessee had launched a
> sales incentive scheme for the authorized dealer under the name Shahen shah
> Scheme. As per the scheme on every payment of Rs. 300/- made by the
> customers within 90 days the customers would earn one point and one point
> was equal to Rs. 1/-. The customers could request for redemption of these
> point for their holiday package in India and abroad.
The points accumulated are communicated to the customers from time to time.
The same has also been posted on the web portal. The purpose of the scheme was
to Page | 39 promote the sales for the company and therefore, to increase the
profit. The scheme was effective from one month, 2001 and is continuing during
the year under consideration. As per the offer document it could also be seen
that unutilized points can be null and void only six months after the closer
of the scheme. It could further be seen that all authorized dealers of the
assessee are automatically enrolled at member of the scheme.
31\. Ld. AO, however, disallowed the same by holding that the right does not
get vested in dealer / distributor at any time before accumulation of minimum
60000 points and any extra points till next slab remain useless; that the
accumulation of 6000 points itself is contingent on several events like
continuing sales, continuing payments being made; and that the scheme itself
is not perpetual, it can end any day and all points have'to be enchased within
six months or get lapsed.
32 Ld: CIT (A), however, on a reappraisal of entire material before him
reached a conclusion that the liability of the assessee on this score is not a
contingent liability, but on the other hand, it is a contractual liability
which may befall on the assessee during the assessment year to the extent of
the rights accrued to the customers by earning the points. Ld. CIT(A)
maintained that the distinction between the contingent liability which may or
may not arise in future and the present liability which may have to be
performed in the future. According to the Ld CIT(A) the liability incurred by
the assessee has to be accounted for during the year in which it was
crystallised so as to claim benefit in the year of payment and there is a
reasonable certainty of discharge and there is logical basis for its
quantification.
33\. Ld. DR justified the findings of the id. AO and submitted that till the
customer earns 6000 points and above no question of crystallization of
liability arises. According to her Page | 40 the scheme itself is not
perpetual and there is no certainty of the customers availing the benefits of
scheme as is evidenced by the outflow of funds as against the huge amount of
provision that was made.
34\. Our attention is drawn to the statement of calculation of sale incentive
under the Shahen shah Scheme for the year ended on 31st March, 2006 at page
no. 46 and 47 of the paper book. The details of the customers clearly
established that • none of the customers in respect of whom the provision has
been created earned any points below 6000. This meets the first objection of
the id. AO, though the assessee seriously disputed such observation. of the
id. AO that the customer acquires the right of redemption out of accumulation
of 6000 points.
35\. Further about the uncertainty of the scheme, the unutilized points can be
null and void only 6 months after the closer of the scheme and till such time
there is no question of lapse of points. Till the scheme wound up, the
liability of the assessee exists and the assessee shall discharge their
liability as and when the performance was demanded by the customers. The ratio
of outflow of funds with the quantum of provision is an irrelevant
consideration so long as the expected or anticipated liability of the assessee
is made on scientific basis.
36\. On perusing the details of the sales and the points earned by the
customers, we are satisfied that the provision is created on scientific basis.
We, therefore, do not find anything illegal or irregular in the findings of
the id. CIT(A) and no interference is warranted. We, therefore, dismiss the
second ground of appeal of the Revenue.‖
51\. The learned departmental representative did not point out any
distinguishing feature during the current year with respect to the facts
prevalent in assessment year 2006 - 07. Therefore, respectfully following the
Page | 41 decision of the coordinate bench in assessee's own case in earlier
year, we dismiss solitary ground of appeal in the appeal of the assessing
officer.
52\. In the result ITA number 466/del/2011 for assessment year 2007 - 08 is
dismissed.
53\. Now we come to the appeal of the assessee in ITA number 6073/del/2010 for
assessment year 2007 - 08 wherein the assessee has taken following to grounds
of appeal "1. That on the facts and in the circumstances of the case and the
legal position, the learned CIT (Appeals) has erred in confirming the addition
of Rs.26,02,844/- u/s 40(a)(i) paid to various foreign entities towards
testing fee/certification outside India, as no income has accrued/arisen in
India.
2 (i) That on the facts and in the circumstances of the case and the legal
position, the learned CIT (Appeals) has erred in confirming the action of the
AO that the enhanced claim of deduction u/s 80IC of the appellant company is
not tenable in law without filing of revised return of income.
(ii) That on the facts and in the circumstances of the case and the legal
position, the learned CIT (Appeals) has erred in adjusting the loss of
Rs.4488013/- in respect of Baddi unit no.2 while allowing the deduction u/s
80IC of Income Tax Act."
54\. The first ground of appeal is with respect to the disallowance u/s 40(a)
(i) of Rs. 2602844/- paid to various foreign entities towards testing fees and
certification charges outside India as no income has accrued or arisen to them
in India. The ld AO noted that the assessee paid such sum to various foreign
entities towards testing and certification of its products. The foreign
entities had a specialized knowledge and facility for doing the type of
testing and necessary certification, which was required to be utilized in
manufacturing activity of the assessee. While making payment the assessee did
not make any tax deduction at source and therefore, assessee was asked to
explain about its disallowances.
55\. The assessee submitted the copies of the bill and submitted that services
were rendered outside India for the purpose of export outside India and
therefore no income as accrued to those foreign entities in India. It was
submitted that the products are being tested and certified by the various
agencies outside India to enable the assessee company to export its products,
as it is the requirement of importing countries to get the products tested by
designated agencies in their own countries. Thus, the contention of the
assessee is that such fees for technical services are paid for services Page |
42 rendered outside India and has been utilized for the export business
outside India. Same are outside the purviews of section 9(1)(vii) and shall
not be chargeable to tax in India.
56\. The ld AO rejected the contention of the assessee and held that the above
payment are chargeable to tax in India in terms of provision of section
9(1)(vii) of the Act as they fall into the definition of ‗fees for technical
services'. With respect to the applicability of Double Taxation Avoidance
Agreement, also he held that it also satisfied the ‗make available' criteria
of technical services. Therefore, the sum was disallowed.
57\. On appeal before the ld CIT(A) he confirmed the above disallowance held
as under:-
> "Ground no. 2 is regarding the disallowance made by the assessing officer
> u/s 40(a)(i) of Rs. 2602844/-. While making the above disallowance the has
> made the following observation "In the present case, it is undisputed fact
> that testing report, certification etc. was obtained in respect of product
> to be utilized the purpose of business of assessee, (a resident) in India.
> That testing is highly specialized job of technical nature and therefore is
> covered in technical services offered and received by the assessee.
> Since foreign entity is based in USA, article 12(4)(b) of DTAA with USA is
> relevant to show that the service and payment made are covered in "Fees for
> included services" as defined. It is produced below :
> "For purpose of this article, "Fees for included services" means payments of
> any kind to any person in consideration for the rendering of any technical
> or consultancy services including through the provision of services of
> technical or other personnel) if such services.
> (a) are ancillary and subsidiary to the application or enjoyment of the
> right property or information for which as payment described in paragraph 3
> is received , or
> (b) made available technical knowledge, expenses, skill, know how , or
> processes or consist of the development and transfer of a technical plan or
> technical design Therefore, making available technical knowledge, experience
> is also covered in fees for included services. The testing report and
> certification are in nature of making available technical knowledge,
> experience and skill because the same is utilized in manufacturing and sale
> of product in business of the assessee. In this regard, decision of Delhi
> Bench of ITAT in case of ITO Vs Sinar Maspup & Paper (India) Ltd. 85 TTJ 794
> (Del.) is very much applicable. The Hon'ble Page | 43 ITAT in this case has
> held that payment made for getting a project report was payment for
> professional services and TDS was liable to be deducted. In the light of the
> ratio laid down in the case of ITAT mentioned supra, section 195 has
> applicability to the payment made by assessee company. The non deduction of
> tax by the assessee leads to disallowance of Rs. 2602844/- u/s 40(a)(i) of
> the I.T. Act. Accordingly amount of Rs. 2602844/- is added to total income
> u/s 40(a)(i) of the I.T. Act."
During the course of appellate proceedings, the appellant has submitted that
the A.O. has made an addition of Rs. 2602844/- u/s 40(a)(i) on account of non
deduction of TDS. The assessee company has paid testing charges to various
foreign entities for the purpose of certification of electrical products
manufactured by the company. The details of such expenses are as under :-
          M/s KEMA Quality B.V., Netherland                   248218/-
          M/s CSA International, Chicago Illinois, USA.       1568212/-
          M/s Hangzhou Zhejiang University, China             46956/-
          M/s Hongkong Sensing Trade Co. Ltd., China          95981/-
          M/s VDE Prufund Zertifizierungs
          Institute, Germany                                  611490/-
          M/s Zhejiang Dongshun Electronic app. Group
          .China                                              30987/-
          Total                                               2602844/-
The aforesaid entities are authorized for certification of products for export
which are mandatory for selling of the products in USA, Europe, Middle East
Countries, China, South African Countries, Singapore , Spain and U.K. No TDS
have been deducted on aforesaid payments since the testing was done by foreign
entities outside India for the purpose of exports outside India. That no
income has accrued or arisen in India. The payment to foreign entities for the
purpose of certification is not required to be utilized in manufacturing
activities of the assessee company. The products are being tested and
certified by the various agencies outside India to enable the assessee company
to export its products, as it is the requirements of the importing countries
to get the products tested from the agencies designated by them in their own
country. The assessee vide letter dated 27/11/2009 has explained that the
purpose of certification from outside agencies was to enable the appellant
company to export its products. The copy of the said letter is also enclosed.
The A.O. has invoked provisions of section 9(1 )(vii) read together with
explanation 2 to the sub-section. The A.O. has contended that payment made in
respect for fees for technical services has been utilized for the purpose of
the business of the assessee in India and hence, It has further been submitted
that the A.O. has also relied in the decision of Delhi Bench of ITAT in the
case of ITO vs. Sinar Mas Pulp & Paper (India) Ltd. 85 TTJ 794 (Del.). The
facts Page | 44 of the said case are not applicable to the appellant company.
In the said case, it was held that the payment made for getting the project
report was the payment made for professional services and TDS was liable to be
deducted. In the said case, project report was prepared to raise a loan in the
international market for the project to be set-up in India and thus was to be
utilized in India. In case of the appellant company, the services were neither
rendered in India nor utilized in India.
Since, the said services are rendered and utilized outside India and payment
has also been received by the foreign entities outside India, the case of the
assessee is squarely covered in the exemption provided in section 9(1
)(vii)(b) of the Act which is reproduced as under "a person who is a resident,
except where fees are payable in respect of services utilized in a business or
profession earned on by such person outside India or for the purpose of making
or earning any income from any source outside India" Therefore, in case where
fee for technical services has been rendered outside India and has been
utilized for the purpose of making or earning any income from any source
outside India, such payments would fall outside the purview of section 9(1
)(vii) and will not be deemed to accrue or arise in India.
The A.O. has erred while stating that the payment made in the instant case has
been utilized for the business purpose in India while the same has not been
utilized for the assessee's business in India since in Indian market, the
KEMA, CSA and other agencies, as stated in para 2.01 above, certification are
not required and the same are necessary for the company's products to be sold
outside India.
Reliance has been placed on the decision of Hon'ble Supreme Court the case of
Ishikawajima-Harima Heavy Industries Ltd. vs. Director of Income Tax [2007]
158 Taxman 259 (SC), wherein it was held that "For section 9(1 )(vii) to be
applicable, it is necessary that services provided by a non - resident
assessee under a contract should not only be utilized within India, but should
also be rendered in India or should have such a live link with India that
entire income from fees, etc., becomes taxable in India; thus, for a non -
resident to be taxed on income for services, such a service needs to be
rendered within India, and has to be a part of a business or profession
carried on by person in India. Whatever is payable by a resident to a non -
resident by way of fees for technical services would not always come within
purview of section 9(1 )(vii) but it must have sufficient territorial nexus
with India so as to furnish a basis for imposition of tax."
In view of the above it has been stated that Hon'ble Supreme Court has held
that income can be deemed to accrue or arise in India only if the said
services are utilized in India as well as rendered in India. In the case of
the assessee, which goes a step ahead, neither the services have rendered in
India nor have they been utilized in India and Page | 45 therefore, it falls
outside the scope of section 9(1 )(vii) and no income can be deemed to accrue
or arise in India.
In section 9 of the Income-tax Act, for the Explanation occurring after sub-
section (2), the following Explanation has been substituted by the Finance
Act, 2010 with effect from the 1st day of June, 1976:-
> "Explanation. - For the removal of doubts, it is hereby declared that for
> the purposes of this section, income of a non-resident shall be deemed to
> accrue or arise in India under clause (v) or clause (vi) or clause (vii) of
> sub-section (1) and shall be included in the total income of the non-
> resident, whether or not, -
> (i) the non-resident has a residence or place of business or business
> connection in India; or
> (ii) the non-resident has rendered services in India."
In the case of the appellant company, insertion of the above explanation to
section 9(2), does not affect the taxability of the said services, since in
the case of appellant company the services have been rendered and utilized
outside India.
Reliance has been placed on the following decisions:
(i) Maharishi Housing development Finance Corporation Ltd.
v. ACIT (ITA No. 222 of 2009)
(ii) Van Oord ACZ India (P) Limited. V. CIT (ITA No. 439 of 2008) In view of
the above facts and legal position, it has been submitted that no tax is
deductable on the payments made to foreign entities on account of testing fee
and thus the additions made by the AO u/s 40(a)(i) of the Income Tax 1961 is
allowable as an revenue expenditure as claimed.
I have considered the submissions of the appellant, the findings of the AO and
the facts on record. This ground of appeal on similar facts was decided by my
appellate order for A.Y. 2006-07 against the appellant by making the following
observations:
"I have considered the submissions of the appellant, the findings of the AO
and the facts on records. The appellant had made payment of Rs.3199076/- to
M/s CSA International Chicago, USA and other foreign entities for the purpose
of certification of electrical products manufactured by the appellant. The
appellant while making the payment to M/s CSA International had not deducted
any TDS . The AO has observed that the testing report and certification are in
the nature of making available technical knowledge and experience and the same
is used in manufacturing and sale of product in the business of the appellant.
In view of the above the AO was of the opinion that section 195 was applicable
on the payment made by the appellant to the foreign company and since no
deduction was made, therefore, under provisions of section 40(a)(i) , ;an
amount of Rs.3199076/- was liable to be added to the income of the appellant.
Explanation 2 to sub section
(b) of section 9(i)(viii) is as under:
> Page | 46 For the purpose of this clause, fees for technical services means
> any Consideration (including any lump sum consideration) for the rendering
> of any managerial, technical or consultancy services ( including the
> provisions of services or technical or other personnel) but does not include
> consideration for any construction, assembly, mining or like project
> undertaken by the recipient or consideration which would be income of the
> recipient chargeable under the salaries. The Hon'ble Kerala High Court in
> the case of Cochin Refineries Ltd. vs CIT 222 ITR 354 has held that "Fees
> paid by Indian Company to foreign company to evaluate quality of certain
> products and as ascertain suitability of such products for specific
> industry, were considered as reimbursement made by Indian company were part
> and parcel in the process of advice of technical nature, and therefore,
> squarely fell in the definition of "fees for technical services in
> Explanation 2 to sec. 9(i)(vii) In view of the discussion above it is very
> clear that the payment made by the resident as fees for technical services
> being utilized in business of India will lead to income being deemed to
> accrue or arise India. Since the fees has been paid for obtaining technical
> services for the purpose of the business the appellant and has also been
> utilized for the purpose of manufacturing and sale of the product in the
> business of the appellant, therefore, the provisions of section 195 will be
> applicable to the payment made by the appellant. I am in agreement with the
> views of the assessing officer that deduction of Rs.3199076/- is not
> allowable. The disallowance made by the AO is upheld. This ground of appeal
> is dismissed."
> The facts remaining the same in view of the findings in the appellate order
> for A.Y. 2006-07 discussed above, this ground of appeal is dismissed."
58\. Thus, the addition was confirmed. Aggrieved the assessee is in appeal
before us.
59\. The ld AR submitted that as far as payment to testing agencies in
Netherland and USA are concerned, they are already decided in favour of the
appellant by the order of the ITAT in assessee's own case for Assessment Year
2005-06 and 2006-07. The coordinate bench has held that it does not satisfy
the ‗make available' test. Therefore, it was submitted that out of total
payment of Rs. 2602844/-, payment of Rs. 1817430/- are related to payment made
to USA and Netherland and therefore, same is covered in favour of the
assessee.
60\. With respect to the balance payment of Rs 785414/- he submitted that
those are made to China and Germany. With respect to this payment his
arguments are summarized as under :-
Page | 47 i. He referred to DTAA between India and China and submitted that in
terms of Article 12 of the DTAA/ Treaty, the meaning of ‗fees for technical
services' is restricted to only services performed in India, for India to have
taxation rights based on ―place of performance‖ test. The relevant extract of
Article 12 is reproduced as under:
> ―1. Royalties or fees for technical services arising in a Contracting State
> and paid to a resident of the other Contracting State may be taxed in that
> other Contracting State.
> 2\. However, such royalties or fees for technical services may also be taxed
> in the Contracting State in which they arise, and according to the laws of
> that Contracting State, but if the recipient is the beneficial owner of the
> royalties or fees for technical services, the tax so charged shall not
> exceed 10 per cent of the gross amount of the royalties or fees for
> technical services.
> 3...........................
> 4\. The term "fees for technical services" as used in this Article means any
> payment for the provision of services of managerial, technical or
> consultancy nature by a resident of a Contracting State in the other
> Contracting State, but does not include payment for activities mentioned in
> paragraph 2(k ) of Article 5 and Article 15 of the Agreement.‖ (emphasis
> supplied).
Article 12(4) of the India-China DTAA defines ‗fees for technical services' to
mean payment for provision of services of managerial, technical or consultancy
nature by a resident of a Contracting State ―in the other Contracting State‖.
Presence of the words ―in the other Contracting State‖ in Article 12(4) of the
DTAA qualifies the place of provision of such services, which clearly
demonstrates that ‗fees for technical services' shall be taxable in India only
if the services are performed in India. Thus, the Treaty stipulates the ‗place
of performance' test to be satisfied in order to determine taxability of ‗fees
for technical services'. In other words, by additionally providing that the
services should be provided "by a resident of a Contracting Page | 48 State in
the other Contracting State", the DTAA has restricted the meaning of ‗fees for
technical services' to only services performed in India, for India to have
taxation rights based on ―place of performance‖ test. Accordingly, on literal
interpretation of Article 12(4) of the DTAA, it follows that payment by an
Indian payer for services to a Chinese resident, which are not performed in
India, even though the services may be of managerial, technical or consultancy
nature, would not be taxable in India. In the instant case, it was submitted
that the testing and certification activities were undertaken by the
entity(ies) in China and hence not taxable in India in view of overriding
Article 12(4) of the DTAA.
ii. He also submitted that payments are not in the nature of ‗Fee for
technical services'. He submitted that the testing/certification services
rendered by the aforesaid foreign entities was even otherwise not in the
nature of ‗fee for technical services' in terms of section 9(1)(vii) of the
Act . He submitted that in order to determine whether the aforesaid payment is
taxable as FTS, reference is made to section 9(1)(vii) of the Act which deems
income by way of FTS to ‗accrue or arise in India' in certain situations,
which reads as under:
―(vii) income by way of fees for technical services payable by-
*** *** ***
(b) a person who is a resident, except where the fees are payable in respect
of services utilised in a business or profession carried on by such person
outside India or for the purposes of making or earning any income from any
source outside India‖ The expression ―fees for technical services‖ has been
defined in Explanation 2 to clause (vii) of section 9(1) of the Act, as under:
―Explanation 2 - For the purposes of this clause, "fees for technical
services" means any consideration (including any lump sum consideration) for
the rendering of any managerial, technical or consultancy services (including
the provision of services of technical or other personnel) but does not
include consideration for any construction, assembly, mining or like project
undertaken by the recipient or consideration which would be income of the
recipient Page | 49 chargeable under the head "Salaries".‖ For any payment to
fall within the garb of the expression FTS under section 9(1)(vii) of the Act,
the following conditions should be cumulatively satisfied:
> (i) Payment is for rendering of services by the non-resident payee to the
> payer; and
> (ii) such services must be of ―managerial‖, ―technical‖ or ―consultancy‖
> nature Thus, for any payment to fall in the category of FTS, the same should
> be for ―managerial‖, ―technical‖ or ―consultancy‖ services. The words
> ―managerial‖, ―technical‖ or ―consultancy‖ have not been defined in the Act.
> However, meaning of the said words has been examined by various Courts in
> the following decisions:
> a) The Supreme Court in the case of CIT V. Bharti Cellular Ltd: [2011] 330
> ITR 239 observed as under:
> ―......Right from 1979, various judgments of High Courts and Tribunals have
> take the view that the words ―technical services‖ have got to be read in the
> narrower sense by applying the rule of noscitur a sociis, particularly
> because the words ―technical services‖ in section 9(1)(vii), read with
> Explanation 2 comes in between the words ―managerial and consultancy
> services‖.
> b) Reference is also made to the decision of the Hon'ble Delhi High Court in
> the case of DIT vs. Panalfa Autoelektrik Ltd: 272 CTR 117, wherein the Court
> explained the meaning of the words ―managerial‖, ―technical‖ and
> ―consultancy‖ services, covered within the scope of FTS under section
> 9(1)(vii) of the Act. Relevant extracts of the decision are as under:
> ―24. The OECD Report on e-commerce titled, Tax Treaty Characterization
> Issues arising from e-
> commerce: Report to Working Party No.1 of the Page | 50 OECD Committee on
> Fiscal Affairs dated 01st February 2001, has elucidated:--
'Technical services
39\. For the Group, services are of technical nature when special skills or
knowledge related to a technical field are required for the provision of such
services. Whilst techniques related to applied science or craftsmanship would
generally correspond to such special skills or knowledge, the provision of
knowledge acquired in fields such as arts or human sciences would not. As an
illustration, whilst the provisions of engineering services would be of a
technical nature, the services of a psychologist would not.
40\. The fact that technology is used in providing a service is not indicative
of whether the service is of a technical nature. Similarly, the delivery of a
service via technological means does not make the service technical. This is
especially important in the e-commerce environment as the technology
underlying the internet is often used to provide services that are not,
themselves, technical (e.g. offering online gambling services through the
internet).
41\. In that respect, it is crucial to determine at what point the special
skill or knowledge is used.
Special skill or knowledge may be used in developing or creating inputs to a
service business. The fee for the provision of a service will not be a
technical fee, however, unless that special skill or knowledge is required
when the service is provided to the customer. For example, special skill or
knowledge will be required to develop software and data used in a computer
game that would Page | 51 subsequently be used in carrying on the business of
allowing consumers to play this game on the internet for a fee. Similarly,
special skill or knowledge is used to create a troubleshooting database that
customers will pay to access over the Internet. In these examples, however,
the relevant special skill or knowledge is not used when providing the service
for which the fee is paid, i.e. allowing the consumer to play the computer
game or consult the troubleshooting database.
42\. Many categories of e-commerce transactions similarly involve the
provision of the use of, or access to, data and software (see, for example,
categories 7, 8, 9, 11, 13, 15, 16, 20 and 21 in annex 2). The service of
making such data and software, or functionality of that data or software,
available for a fee is not, however, a service of a technical nature. The fact
that the development of the necessary data and software might itself require
substantial technical skills is irrelevant as the service provided to the
client is not the development of that data and software (which may well be
done by someone other than the supplier) but rather the service of making the
data and software available to that client. For example, the mere provision of
access to a troubleshooting database would not require more than having
available such a database and the necessary software to access it. A payment
relating to the provision of such access would not, therefore, relate to a
service of a technical nature. .......................
Consultancy services
45\. For the Group, "consultancy services" refer to services constituting in
the provision of advice by Page | 52 someone, such as a professional, who has
special qualifications allowing him to do so. It was recognised that this type
of services overlapped the categories of technical and managerial services to
the extent that the latter types of services could well be provided by a
consultant.' We broadly agree with the aforesaid observations.............
25\. Thus, the technical services consists of services of technical nature,
when special skills or knowledge relating to technical field are required for
their provision, managerial services are rendered for performing management
functions and consultancy services relate to provision of advice by someone
having special qualification that allow him to do so.‖ (emphasis supplied)
c) In an earlier decision, the Madras High Court in the case of Skycell
Communications Ltd. V. DCIT: 251 ITR 53 (Mad), while elaborately explaining
the aforesaid concept of rendering of technical service, observed as under: ―5
.
.........
‗Fees for technical service' is not defined in section 194J. Explanation (b)
in that section provides that that expression shall have the same meaning as
in Explanation 2 to clause (vii) of sub-section (1) of section
9\. ..................
Thus, while stating that ‗technical service' would include managerial and
consultancy service, the Legislature has not set out with precision as to what
would constitute ‗technical' service to render it ‗technical service'. The
meaning of the word ‗technical' as given in the New Oxford Dictionary is
adjective. 1 of or relating to, a Page | 53 particular subject, art or craft
or its techniques: technical terms (especially of a book or article) requiring
special knowledge to be understood: a technical report. 2 of involving, or
concerned with applied and industrial sciences: an important technical
achievement. 3 resulting from mechanical failure: a technical fault and 4
according to a strict application or interpretation of the law or the rules:
the arrest was a technical violation of the treaty.
6\. Having regard to the fact that the term is required to be understood in
the context in which it is used, ‗fee for technical services' could only be
meant to cover such things technical as are capable of being provided by way
of service for a fee. The popular meaning associated with ‗technical' is
‗involving or concerning applied and industrial science'.
7\. In the modern day world, almost every facet of one's life is linked to
science and technology inasmuch as numerous things used or relied upon in
every day life is the result of scientific and technological development.
Every instrument or gadget that is used to make life easier is the result of
scientific invention or development and involves the use of technology. On
that score, every provider of every instrument or facility used by a person
cannot be regarded as providing technical service.
8\. When a person hires a taxi to move from one place to another, he uses a
product of science and technology, viz., an automobile. It cannot on that
ground be said that the taxi driver who controls the vehicle and monitors its
movement is rendering a technical service to the person who uses the
automobile. Similarly, when a person travels by train or in an aeroplane, it
cannot be said that the railways or airlines is rendering a technical service
to the passenger and, therefore, the passenger is under an obligation to
deduct tax at source on the payments made Page | 54 to the railway or the
airline for having used it for travelling from one destination to another.
When a person travels by bus, it cannot be said that the undertaking which
owns the bus service is rendering technical service to the passenger and,
therefore, the passenger must deduct tax at source on the payment made to the
bus service provider for having used the bus. The electricity supplied to a
consumer cannot, on the ground that generators are used to generate
electricity, transmission lines to carry the power, transformers to regulate
the flow of current, meters to measure the consumption, be regarded as
amounting to provision of technical services to the consumer resulting in the
consumer having to deduct tax at source on the payment made for the power
consumed and remit the same to the revenue.
9\. Satellite television has become ubiquitous and is spreading its area and
coverage, and covers millions of homes. When a person receives such
transmission of television signals through the cable provided by the cable
operator, it cannot be said that the home owner who has such a cable
connection is receiving a technical service for which he is required to deduct
tax at source on the payments made to the cable operator.
10\. Installation and operation of sophisticated equipments with a view to
earn income by allowing customers to avail of the benefit of the user of such
equipment, does not result in the provision of technical service to the
customer for a fee.
......................
14\. ‗Technical service' referred to in section 9(1)(vii) contemplates
rendering of a ‗service' to the payer of the fee. Mere collection of a ‗fee'
for use of a standard facility provided to all those willing to pay for it
does not amount Page | 55 to the fee having been received for technical
services.‖ (emphasis supplied) To put it simply, technical services mean
services of technical nature, when special skills or knowledge relating to
technical field are required for their provision. Similarly, the word
―consultancy‖ means giving some sort of consultation de hors the performance
or the execution of any work. It is only when some consideration is given for
rendering some advice or opinion etc. that the same falls within the scope of
―consultancy services‖. The word `consultancy' excludes actual ‗execution'.
The word ―managerial‖ means performing management functions in an organization
i.e. head and brain of the organization.
It is undisputed that the activities undertaken by the foreign entities do not
fall within the ambit of ‗consultancy' or ‗managerial' services. If at all, it
needs to be determined whether the activity undertaken by such entities falls
within the ambit of ―technical services‖ for the purposes of deduction of tax
at source under the Act.
It is submitted that in the present case, the said testing/certification
charges were paid by the appellant to ensure quality of its electrical
products/equipment to enable sale of such products in the overseas markets and
did not involve rendering of any technical service.
He referred to details of such payment are as under:
(a) Insofar as payment to Chinese residents/ companies are concerned, the same
was made for ―photometric testing of lighting fixtures‖ [refer invoices at
pages 80, 82, 83]. As per information available in public domain (google,
etc.), Photometry is modern science to measure the visible light in terms of
its perceived brightness to human vision. The basic unit of photometry is
lumen (lm). The inverse square law and cosine law are the two laws used in
photometry. The inverse square law states that the intensity per unit area on
the surface varies ins inversely proportional to the square of distance
between the source and surface. Whereas the cosine law indicates the intensity
of light on a surface of a fixed area varies with Page | 56 the incident
angle. In fact, the intensity falls off as the cosine of the angle.
Photometric Testing involves testing the amount, colour, quality and spatial
distribution of light emitted from lamps, LEDs and luminaires.
(b) Insofar as payment to German company is concerned, the same was made for
certification based on a CB-Test Certificate [refer invoices at pages 81]. It
may be appreciated that no technical service has been availed by the
appellant. The recipients have merely done quality testing and certification
of goods. Further, such testing is, the assessee understands, done through
machines not involving any human intervention in testing (viz., photometric
testing and CB Testing); the same, therefore, do not, constitute technical
service warranting deduction of tax at source.
He specifically relied on the decision of the Bombay High Court in the case of
DIT vs. TUV Bayren (India) Ltd.: ITA No.1304 of 2013, where similar testing
and certification charges paid by the assessee to an entity incorporated in
Germany, for the purpose of exporting products in overseas market was held to
fall outside the scope of technical services for the purpose of section
9(1)(vii) and Article 12(4) of the India Germany DTAA.
He also relied up on the decision of the Mumbai Bench of the Tribunal in the
case of Siemens Ltd vs CIT: [2013] 142 ITD 1 (Mumbai Trib.) wherein assessee
made payment to a laboratory located in Germany for carrying out certain tests
of the circuit breakers manufactured by it in order to establish that the
design and the product meet the requirement of the international standards.
The assessee claimed that as the said tests were carried out by sophisticated
machines without human intervention, the services did not constitute ―fees for
technical services‖ as defined in section 9(1)(vii) of the Act. However, the
assessing officer & CIT(A) rejected the claim of the assessee on the ground
that the services were ―technical‖ in nature and would qualify as fees for
technical services under section 9(1)(vii) of the Act. On second appeal, the
Tribunal held that as per Explanation 2 to section 9(1)(vii) of the Act, if
any human renders any technical skill or service Page | 57 or makes available
any such service through aid of any machine, equipment or any kind of
technology, then such a rendering of services can be inferred as 'technical
services', as in such a situation, there is a constant human endeavor and
involvement of the human interface. On the contrary, if any technology or
machine developed by human and put to operation automatically, i.e., it
operates without much of human interface or intervention, then usage of such
technology cannot per se be held as rendering of 'technical services' by human
skills and further, it held that merely because certificates had been provided
by the human after a test is carried out in a laboratory automatically by the
machines, it cannot be held that services have been provided through the human
skills. On facts, the services provided by the German laboratory for testing
the circuit breakers was a standard service done automatically by machines and
not requiring human intervention. Thus, said payment made by the assessee to
the laboratory in Germany was held to be not a consideration for rendering of
any kind of 'technical services' either in the nature of managerial or
technical or consultancy services and therefore, it was held that the same
does not fall within the ambit of section 9(1)(vii) of the Act.
He also relied up on decision of Delhi Bench of the Tribunal, in the case of
ACIT vs Gates India (P) Ltd: [2017] 189 TTJ 473 (Del Trib.) held as under:
> ―13. We have considered the rival contentions as well as relevant material
> on record. The assessee has paid testing fee to its A.E. GRC-US in respect
> of testing of its rubber hose. The A.E. has raised debit note on the
> assessee in respect of costs/expenses incurred by the A.E. in respect of
> testing of the product of the assessee. Therefore, it is not a case of any
> research and development facility provided by the A.E. to the assessee but
> it is simply a case of testing of the product of the assessee for quality
> purpose so as to meet the international standards and the requirement of
> exports. The assessee has explained that rubber hose pipes manufactured by
> the assessee Page | 58 are being used in mining process and therefore, there
> are certain standards of quality which are required to be met by the product
> of the assessee. Thus the testing of the product at the facility of the A.E.
> does not amount of rendering any technical services by the A.E. to the
> assessee but simply it is an activity of quality test of the product which
> is carried out outside India. In the absence of any material to show that
> assessee is using any technical knowledge or services rendered by the A.E.
> in the manufacturing process of its goods it cannot be treated as any
> technical services rendered by the A.E. Therefore, we do not find any
> material or facts either discovered by the A.O. or otherwise available on
> record to show that assessee has paid the testing fee for acquiring any
> technical knowledge or receiving any technical services from the A.E. Thus,
> the payments of testing fee to the A.E. is not fee for technical services.
> Since A.E. of the assessee is not giving any permanent establishment in
> India, therefore, the said receipt/income in the hands of the A.E. is not
> taxable in India and consequently, the assessee was under obligation to
> deduct TDS at source.‖ In that view of the matter, it is submitted that the
> assessee was not required to deduct tax at source on payment of testing
> charges and disallowance under section 40(a)(i) of the Act, in this regard,
> is not called for. Accordingly, there was no default on the part of the
> appellant in not deducting tax at source from such payments, so as to
> warrant any disallowance under section 40(a)(i) of the Act.
61\. He further raised several alternative contentions without prejudice to
the primary contention of the appellant that tax was not required to be
deducted on the payments made towards testing and certification charges and
hence, disallowance under section 40(a)(i) of the Act was not warranted.
62\. He submitted that no disallowance u/s 40(a)(i) It is submitted that where
tax is not deducted by an assessee under bonafide belief that tax was not
deductible at source on payments made, the assessee cannot be treated as an
assessee in default for not deducting the tax at source and consequently,
disallowance under Section 40(a)(i) of the Act is not warranted. The Page | 59
aforesaid principle has been upheld by the Bombay High Court in the case of
CIT vs. Kotak Securities Ltd: 340 ITR 333 wherein the Court held as under:
> ―......... 32. Accordingly, we hold that the transaction charges paid by the
> assessee to the stock exchange constitute "fees for technical services"
> covered under section 194J of the Act and, therefore, the assessee was
> liable to deduct tax at source while crediting the transaction charges to
> the account of the stock exchange. However, since both the Revenue and the
> assessee were under the bona fide belief for nearly a decade that tax was
> not deductible at source on payment of transaction charges, no fault can be
> found with the assessee in not deducting the tax at source in the assessment
> year in question and consequently disallowance made by the Assessing Officer
> under section 40(a)(ia) of the Act in respect of the transaction charges
> cannot be sustained. We make it clear that we have arrived at the above
> conclusion in the peculiar facts of the present case, where both the Revenue
> and the assessee right from the insertion of section 194J in the year 1995
> till 2005 proceeded on the footing that the assessee is not liable to deduct
> tax at source and in fact immediately after the assessment year in question,
> i.e., from the assessment year 2006-07 the assessee has been deducting tax
> at source while crediting the transaction charges to the account of the
> stock exchange.
> 33\. The question raised in the appeal is answered accordingly and the
> appeal is disposed off in the above terms with no order as to costs.‖
> Similar view has been endorsed by the Bombay High Court in the case of CIT
> vs. HSBC Securities & Capital Markets (India) (P.) Ltd: 379 ITR 146 wherein,
> again, it has been reiterated that where assessee was under bona fide belief
> that tax was not deductible at source, disallowance made under section
> 40(a)(ia) of the Act could not be sustained for non-deduction of tax at
> source.
> Page | 60 He also referred to following decisions to support his above
> argument:
> i. CIT vs. Nestle India Ltd: 243 ITR 435 (Del. HC) ii. CIT vs. ITC Ltd: 263
> CTR 241 (All) iii. ACIT vs. M/s. UBS Securities India Pvt. Ltd.: iv. ITA No.
> 6451 of 2011 (Del) - Bharti Airtel Ltd. vs. ACIT: MA No. 27 and 28 of 2017
> (Del Tri.) v. DCIT vs. Satellite Television Asian Region Ltd: 23 taxmann.com
> 100 (Mum Tri.) vi. ACIT vs. Priyasha Meven Finance Ltd: ITA No. 115/Mum/2012
> (Mum) vii. DCIT vs. Anant Investment - ITA No. 6428/Mum/2010 (Mum) viii. CMS
> (India) Operations & Maintenance Co. (P.) Ltd: 19 taxmann.com 139 (Chen
> Tri.) ix. Infotech Enterprises Ltd. vs. ACIT: 41 taxmann.com 364 (Hyd Tri.)
> x. Cyient Ltd vs. DCIT: 58 taxmann.com 70 (Hyd.
> Trib.) In view of the above, it is submitted that since the appellant was,
> in any case, under bonafide belief that tax was not deductible at source on
> the transaction under consideration, no fault can be found in not deducting
> the tax at source and consequently, disallowance under Section 40(a)(i) of
> the Act is not warranted.
63\. He also submitted that disallowance under section 40(a)(i) should, if at
all, be directed to be made having regard to the clarificatory/ curative
amendment made under section 40(a)(ia) of the Act which provides that
disallowance should be restricted to 30% of the expenditure. Amendment under
section 40(a)(ia) of the Act is clarificatory and retrospective. HE submitted
that Vide the Finance Act 2014, the provisions of section 40(a)(ia) of the Act
were further amended to restrict disallowance on account of non-deduction of
tax at source on payments made to residents to the extent of 30% of the
expenditure as against disallowance of entire expenditure. The Memorandum
explaining provisions of the Finance Bill, Page | 61 2014 provides the
rationale of the aforesaid amendment to section 40(a)(ia) of the Act in the
following words:
> ―........................ As mentioned above, in case of non-deduction or
> non-payment of tax deducted at source (TDS) from certain payments made to
> residents, the entire amount of expenditure on which tax was deductible is
> disallowed under section 40(a)(ia) for the purposes of computing income
> under the head "Profits and gains of business or profession". The
> disallowance of whole of the amount of expenditure results into undue
> hardship. In order to reduce the hardship, it is proposed that in case of
> non-deduction or non-payment of TDS on payments made to residents as
> specified in section 40(a)(ia) of the Act, the disallowance shall be
> restricted to 30% of the amount of expenditure claimed. Further, existing
> provisions of section 40(a)(ia) of the Act provides that certain payments
> such as interest, commission, brokerage, rent, royalty fee for technical
> services and contract payment made to a resident shall not be allowed as
> deduction for computing business income if tax on such payments was not
> deducted, or after deduction, was not paid within the time specified under
> the said section. Chapter XVII-B of the Act mandates deduction of tax from
> certain other payments such as salary, directors fee, which are currently
> not specified under section 40(a)(ia) of the Act. The payments on which tax
> is deductible under Chapter XVII-B but not specified under section 40(a)(ia)
> of the Act may also be claimed as expenditure for the purposes of
> computation of income under the head "Profits and gains from business or
> profession -
> Clause 14 " .......................................... These amendments will
> take effect from 1st April, 2015 and will, accordingly, apply in relation to
> the assessment year 2015-16 and subsequent years.‖(emphasis supplied) The
> aforesaid amendment, it may be noted, is curative in nature, being
> introduced to reduce the undue hardship caused to assessee on disallowance
> of entire amount of expenditure. Accordingly, the same would, have
> retrospective operation.
64\. He further referred to the decision of the Larger Bench of the Supreme
Court in the case of CIT vs. Gold Coin Health Food (P) Limited: 304 ITR 308,
Page | 62 wherein Their Lordships, while analyzing the principles regarding
retrospective operation of statutes categorically observed, ―The presumption
against retrospective operation is not applicable to declaratory statutes...
In determining, therefore, the nature of the Act, regard must be had to the
substance rather than to the form.‖ Reliance in this regard is placed on the
following decisions, where the Courts/Tribunals have, in context with second
proviso to section 40(a)(ia) of the Act inserted by Finance Act, 2012, held
that the amendment being declaratory and curative in nature, should be given
retrospective effect from 1st April, 2005, being the date from which sub-
clause (ia) of section 40(a) was inserted by the Finance (No. 2) Act, 2004 -
CIT vs. Ansal Land Mark Township (P) Ltd: 377 ITR 635 (Del) SSP P. Ltd. vs.
ACIT: ITA No. 880/Del/2014 (Del Tri) Convergys India Services Pvt. Ltd vs.
ACIT: ITA No. 5451 of 2011 (Del) Rajeev Kumar Agarwal vs ACIT:149 ITD 363
(Agra) Shri G.Shankar vs. ACIT: ITA No.1832/Bang/2013 (Bang) It is
respectfully submitted, that the aforesaid analogy provided by the Courts in
relation to the retrospective operation of the second proviso to section
40(a)(ia), clearly applies even in case of the amendment made vide Finance Act
2014, to restrict disallowance on account of non-deduction of tax at source on
payments made to residents to the extent of 30% of the expenditure as against
disallowance of entire expenditure and the same would, it is respectfully
submitted, have retrospective application. Specific reliance in this regard is
placed on the following decisions, where it has been held that amendment to
section 40(a)(ia) of the Act restricting the disallowance to 30% of
expenditure, being clarificatory/ curative in nature, is applicable
retrospectively: -
> i. Prabhatam Advertising Pvt. Ltd. vs. DCIT: ITA No.5798 of 2014 (Del) -
> Smt. Kanta Yadav vs. ITO: ITA No. 6312/Del/2016 (Del) ii. RH International
> Ltd. vs. ITO: ITA No. 6724 of 2018 (Del) Page | 63 iii. Sh. Rajendra Yadav
> vs. ITO: ITA No. 895/JP/2012 (Jaipur) iv. Smt.Sonu Khandelwal vs. ITO: ITA
> No. 597/JP/2013 (Jaipur) v. Siddi Vinayak Sarees vs. ITO: 2056 of 2018 (Kol)
> In view of the aforesaid, it is emphatically reiterated that amendment in
> section 40(a)(ia) of the Act, being clarificatory/ curative in nature, is
> applicable retrospectively. Being so, it is submitted that disallowance, if
> at all, should be directed to be restricted only to 30% of the expenditure
> claimed in the year under consideration.
65\. He submitted that terms of DTAA provides that residents of foreign
country shall not be subjected in India to any taxation or any requirement
connected therewith which is more burdensome than the taxation and connected
requirements to which nationals of India in the same circumstances are or may
be subjected.
66\. Reference is made to the following cases wherein it has been held that
deduction neutrality clause in non-discrimination Article in a Tax Treaty is
designed to primarily seek parity in eligibility for deduction between
payments made to the residents and non-residents and any pre conditions for
deductibility which are harsher than payments made to the residents, are
ineffective in law by the virtue of such non-discrimination clause:
> i. CIT vs. Herbalife International India (P.) Ltd: 384 ITR 276 (Delhi HC)
> ii. Mitsubishi Corporation India Private Limited vs. ACIT:
> 5147/Del/2010 (Del. ITAT) iii. Rajeev Sureshbhai Gajwani Vs ACIT: 137 TTJ 1
> (Ahmedabad ITAT) iv. DCIT vs. Gupta Overseas [ITA No. 257/Agr/2013 (Agra
> ITAT) In view of the aforesaid, it is emphatically reiterated that
> amendment in section 40(a) (ia) of the Act, being clarificatory and
> retrospective in nature should equally apply to section 40(a) (i) of the
> Act. Being so, it is submitted that disallowance, if at all, should be
> directed to be restricted only to 30% of the expenditure claimed in the year
> under consideration.
> Page | 64
67\. However, the Ld Authorised Representative was fair enough to state that
the issue of payment to agents in China, as far as it relates to the issue of
provision of such services in India is clearly covered against the assessee by
the decision of the coordinate bench in Ashapura Minichem Ltd Vs. ADIT 131 TTJ
291.
68\. He further referred to the various bills placed at page No. 58 to 77 of
the paper book and stated that the above facilities provided by the testing
agents are standard facilities and therefore those are not fees for technical
services.
69\. Identically, he says that the issue also applies to the payment made to
agents in Germany. He also referred to the decision of coordinate bench dated
24.05.2018 and 30.09.2019 in assessee's own case for Assessment Year 2005-06
and 2006-07.
70\. We have carefully considered the rival contentions and perused the orders
of the lower authorities. We have also considered the order of the coordinate
bench in Assessment Year 2005-06 in assessee's own case wherein, payment with
respect to CSA International USA of Rs. 1568212/- is not held to be a fees for
technical services according to article 12(4)(b) of the Act. Accordingly, the
payment to CSA International USA of Rs. 1568212/- on identically facts and
circumstances cannot be disallowed u/s 40(a)(i) of the Act. With respect to
payment made Kema Quality BB Netherland of Rs. 248218/- is also covered in
favour of the assessee at para No. 9 of the order of the coordinate bench in
assessee's own case for Assessment Year 2006-
07\.
71\. With respect to the payment to 3 different parties of China amounting to
Rs.
173924/- and Rs. 611490/- paid to VDEPZI, Germany are required to be tested
for this year.
72\. The brief nature of the services could also be gathered from the various
documents such as bills of the parties placed at page No. 57 onwards. These
are the country specific certifications. The Kema Certification Quality
Control Certification is mandatory with CE Sample for sale in European Union
and similarly CSA Quality certifications are mandatory for sale in USA. As
assessee in his written arguments have referred about the nature of services
refereeing to a website which shows that Photometric Page | 65 Testing
provides a comprehensive laboratory service for testing the amount, colour,
quality and spatial distribution of light emitted from lamps, LEDs and
luminaires. The luminous intensity (unit: candela) of LEDs can be measured
with a conventional photometric bench and the standard photometers [2] under a
far field condition, at a distance far enough so that the test LED can be
regarded as a point source (typically 2 m or longer). Photometric Light.
Photometric lights use data provided by lighting manufacturers in the form of
IES or EULUMDAT format photometry files. These files contain "photometric"
measurements of a light's intensity in different directions, as well as
information about the size of the actual luminous surface. Undoubtedly, these
are the certification for assistance to exporters in international market.
This is an international process of testing and certification wherein the
specialized will provide the knowledge and guidance the exporters need for
electric and electronic products for the areas international market. These
testing are done by accredited companies who are specialized and certified to
do that and are carrying the mandatory mark and Mark of the certification for
the respective products. When the products are exported and sold in the market
to which the certification belongs to, they must carry along with the product
the certificate. These accredited laboratories are conducting testing and
provide the assessee with the certification body test reports so that the
product can obtain necessary mark of the certifying organization. It also
eliminates many redundant testing in different markets. These testing
laboratories provide a user manual, which describe the process of testing,
rating and labelling of the certification. It is carried out on the necessary
number of samples where mandatory certification is required. It can also carry
out factory inspection with auditors from different organization other than
the laboratory as well as from the laboratory to give the authenticity of the
certification. Such certification gives acceptability to the product of a
company in the market in which it is not manufactured but sold. The delivery
time of the certification is also depending on the product as well as
certification that are required. The tests are mainly performed in accordance
with the standards for electrical and electronic goods, which are finalized by
the standardization committee. Therefore, such accredited organizations who
are issuing Page | 66 certificates are up-to-date in their knowledge and
technical skills with respect to the fast developments in the technological
standards in its latest development. Thus, it is obvious that only properly
accredited third parties have the objectivity required to issue test results
that can be used for official purposes. They possess specialized knowledge of
the local situation for which the certification is sought. The various
certificates produced before us shows that the certificate has been issued and
the product has been certified after the typed test according to the standards
issued by the standardization committee, inspection of the product location,
examination of the documents and comparison of the specification with the
agreement with the number i.e code. So far as the electrical products are
concerned, it certifies the related current, range of instantaneous tripping
over current, related voltage, related short-circuit capacity, related service
short-circuit capacity, the class of limiting the energy, the safety distance,
method of mounting, degree of protection against moisture and verification of
insulating material. It also keep the test results documentation in the
respective test files and if desired can be accessed by the client or third
party (buyer) in CD form. Testing certificates also shows that who conducted
the test for this particular product and who checked the results of test
carried out by that person. Further, the assessee has entered into an
agreement with these accredited agencies for certification, which lays down
the process of the certification as well as the respective liabilities. One
such agreement is placed at page number 108 of the paper book. (Page number 93
-108 of the paper book of assessee).
73\. Assessee has contended that ―Further, such testing is, the assessee
understands, done through machines not involving any human intervention in
testing (viz., photometric testing and CB Testing); the same, therefore, do
not, constitute technical service warranting deduction of tax at source.‖
74\. For assessment year 2005 - 06 in assessee's own case the issue was before
the honourable Delhi High Court in 21 taxmann.com 476 (352 ITR 376). In para
number nine of such order the honourable High Court in the first line itself
has held that Page | 67 ―It appears to us on reading of the orders of the
departmental authorities and the order of the tribunal that there is no
dispute that the amount paid by the assessee to the US company represented
―fees for technical services ―within the meaning of Section 9 (1) (viib) of
the act. In fact, to the specific query put hon Court in the course of the
hearing to the learned counsel for the assessee, he frankly stated that he
could not dispute this position, having regard to the wide definition of ―fees
for technical services ‖in the aforesaid provision. If that is so, the only
question which we are required to examine is (A) whether the fees were payable
in respect of services utilized in a business or profession carried on by the
assessee outside India or (B) they were paid for the purposes of making or
earning any income from any source outside India.‖
75\. Further, in para number 16 the honourable High Court held that the result
of the discussion is that the fees for technical services are taxable in the
hands of the US company Under the provisions of the act. Therefore, whether
such income is chargeable to tax in India according to the Indian income tax
act is already concluded by the honourable High Court in assessee's own case
for assessment year 2005 - 06 by this decision.
76\. One more argument has been taken by the assessee that according to the
understanding of the assessee, the services are provided by the machines and
it does not involve human intervention. Therefore it fails the test of being a
technical services and hence relying on the decision of the honourable Supreme
Court in case of CIT versus Bharti cellular Ltd (2011) 330 ITR 239 (assessee)
wherein in para number six of that decision the honourable Supreme Court dealt
with this issue. Now this aspect of the matter has further been dealt by the
honourable Supreme Court in CIT versus Kotak securities Ltd and other
connected appeals (2016) 383 ITR 1 (SC) wherein the honourable Supreme Court
noted in para number six of that decision noting that as ‗managerial and
consultancy services' and therefore necessarily ‗technical services' would
obviously involves services rendered by human efforts. This has been the
consistent view taken by the courts including Hon Supreme court in Bharti
cellular Ltd (supra). However, it cannot be lost sight of those modern-day
scientific and technological Page | 68 developments maintained to blur the
specific human element in an otherwise fully automated process by which such
services may be provided. The search for a more effective basis, therefore,
must be made. According to this observation of the honourable Supreme court ,
it is clear that if a process is fully automated process there is no human
intervention and still the particular activity or technical analysis may fall
into the definition of ‗technical services'. Further in para number [4] of
that decision of the honourable Delhi High Court recording the facts of the
case clearly noted that that the US company had specialized knowledge and
facilities for carrying out the type of testing and necessary certification,
which was required by the assessee. Even otherwise, the assessee has merely
expressed an understanding without pointing out anything else that testing
services does not require human intervention. The honourable High Court in
assessee's own case for assessment year 2005 - 06 has categorically held with
respect to the US company that US company had specialized knowledge and
facilities for carrying out the type of testing and the necessary
certification, which was required by the assessee for the purpose of its goods
to be exported in a specified country. The natures of services have also been
referred to by us in earlier paragraph. In view of the above facts, the
argument of the assessee that it does not require human intervention, remains
merely an assertion and even otherwise the honourable Supreme Court in case of
CIT versus Kotak securities (supra) has clearly expressed a caveat on the view
that whether for the purpose of taxation of ‗fees for technical services'
according to the Indian income tax act human intervention is necessary or not,
this argument advanced by the learned authorised representative does not hold
water and therefore is rejected. Reliance on all other decision also becomes
irrelevant in light of the decision of the Honourable Delhi High court in
assessee's own case and Decision of Honourable supreme court in CIT V Kotak
Securities Limited.
77\. The second argument of the learned authorised representative is that such
a technical services are standard facilities. For this proposition, he further
relied upon the decision of the honourable Supreme Court in case of CIT versus
Kotak securities (supra). The honourable Supreme Court in that particular case
was concerned with the facilities provided by Bombay stock Page | 69
exchange/National stock exchange to its broker for a provision of facilities
of a faceless screen-based transaction, a constant upgradation of the services
made available and surveillance of the essential parameters connected with the
trade including those of a particular/single transaction that would lead
credence to its authenticity as provided for by the stock exchange. All these
services were fully automated and were available to all the members of the
stock exchange in respect of every transaction that is entered into. There was
nothing special, exclusive or customized service that is rendered by the stock
exchange. It was held that technical services like managerial and consultancy
services would denote seeking of services to cattle to the special needs of
the consumer user as may be felt necessary and the making of the same
available by the service provider. It was held that it is the above feature
i.e. a specialized feature that would distinguish or identify a service
provided from a facility offered. While the former especially an exclusive to
the seekers of the service, the letter, even if termed as a service, is
available to all and would therefore stand out in the distinction to the
former. The honourable court then held that the services provided by the stock
exchange for which transaction charges are paid fails to satisfy these test of
specialized, exclusive and individual requirement of the user or consumer who
may approach the service provider for such assistance or services. The
honourable court also noted that the assessee online trading (BOM) system for
which the charges have been paid by the appellant are common services that
every member of the stock exchanges necessarily required to avail of to carry
out trading in securities in the exchange. The honourable Supreme Court also
noted that the view taken by the honourable High Court that a member of the
stock exchange has an option of trading through an alternative mode is not
correct. A member who wants to conduct his daily business in the stock
exchange has no option but to avail such services. Each and every transaction
by a member in will have to use services provided by the stock exchange for
which a member is compulsorily required to pay an additional charge. That
feature of the services provided by the stock exchange would make some kind of
a facility provided by the stock exchange for transacting business rather than
a technical services provided to one of Section of the member of stock
exchange to deal with Page | 70 special situation. Thus, the honourable
Supreme Court held that there is no exclusivity of the services rendered by
the stock exchange and each and every member has to necessary avail of such
services in the normal course of trading in the securities in the stock
exchange. In that circumstances the honourable Supreme Court held that these
are the standard facilities available to everybody trading on a stock exchange
to be compulsorily availing for such services. Thus they were not the
technical services specialized for the assessee. In these terms if the
services available the assessee from various testing agencies are examined,
they would specifically provides that would be with respect to the specific
country, specific product, specific manufactured lot of the assessee, which is
exported in that particular country whether it conforms with the standard
specified in that country, therefore, cannot be said to be a standard facility
provided by that particular agency to the assessee. The honourable High Court
in assessee's own case have also stated that it is a specialized facility
provided to the assessee for testing of its goods exported in that particular
country. In view of this, the argument of the assessee that these are standard
facilities does not hold water and is rejected.
78\. Further assessee has raised an argument with respect to article 12 (4) of
the Double Taxation Avoidance Agreement between India and China, where a
specific argument is raised that the services have not been rendered or
performed in India and therefore they are not ‗fees for technical services' as
per the agreement, and hence same is not taxable as per DTAA. This argument of
the assessee has been covered against the assessee by decision of coordinate
bench in Ashapura Minichem Ltd. v. Assistant Director of Income-tax *,
International Taxation 1(1), Mumbai [2010] 40 SOT 220 (Mumbai)/[2010] 131 TTJ
291 (Mumbai) where in t has been held as under :-
> " 3. The basic thrust of assessee's contentions is that, since no part of
> the testing services was rendered in India, the Chinese company did not have
> any tax liability in India in respect of the bauxite testing charges. By way
> of a detailed note, it is submitted that in order to attract taxability
> under section 9(1)(vii) of the Income-tax Act, 1961, not only that Page | 71
> the services should be utilized in India, but should also be rendered in
> India, in support of this proposition, learned counsel for the assessee has
> made a reference is made to the Hon'ble Supreme Court judgment in the case
> of Ishikawajima Harima Heavy Industries Ltd. v. DIT [2007] 288 ITR 408 1 and
> of Hon'ble jurisdictional High Court's judgment in the case of Clifford
> Chance v. Dy. CIT [2009] 318 ITR 2372 (Bom.). As far as taxability under the
> domestic law is concerned, learned counsel primarily relies upon his
> exhaustive written submissions filed before us. Coming to the taxability
> under the applicable treaty provisions, it is submitted that even in terms
> of the provisions of article 12 of India China tax treaty, taxability of
> royalty can only arise when not only the services are used in India but also
> rendered in India. According to the learned counsel, the only other
> situation in which impugned receipt can be taxed in India, under article 7
> of the applicable tax treaty provisions, is when the said income is earned
> in the course of business carried on by the assessee in India though a
> permanent establishment in India. Learned counsel submits that it is not
> even the case of the revenue that the Chinese company had any permanent
> establishment in India, and, therefore, the business profits of the Chinese
> company cannot be taxed under article 7 of the tax treaty. He fairly accepts
> that, in case impugned receipt is to be taxed under article 12 as ‗fees for
> technical services', the existence, or non-existence, of the permanent
> establishment will be wholly irrelevant. He, however, contends that article
> 12 cannot be applied on the facts of the present case, because unless the
> services rendered by resident of one of the Contracting States (i.e., China
> in the present case) are rendered in the other Contracting State (i.e.,
> India in the present case), the payment for these services cannot be
> subjected to tax in that Source State (i.e., India in the Page | 72 present
> case). It is submitted that since the testing services are entirely rendered
> in China, and since no part of services is rendered in India, the testing
> services could not be brought to tax in India in terms of provision of
> article 12 of the tax treaty. It is contended that, unlike the provisions in
> most other tax treaties, the taxability of fees for technical services in
> the India China tax treaty has an additional requirement of ‗place of
> performance' in the source country, to be satisfied before it can be taxed
> as fees for technical services in the source country. He takes us through
> the provisions of Indo China tax treaty, China Pakistan Tax Convention,
> India Israel Tax Convention, India South Africa Tax Convention and India
> Germany Tax Convention. He does all this to highlight that India China tax
> treaty is unique in its wordings and its scope - so far as the taxability of
> fees for technical services is concerned. When his attention was invited to
> the deeming fiction under article 12(6) of the treaty, which requires the
> ‗fees for technical services' as deemed to have arisen in the State of which
> payer is resident, learned counsel submitted that ‗fees for technical
> services', for the purpose of article 12(6), cannot have any other meaning
> than the meaning assigned under article 12(4) and, under article 12(4),
> place of performance test is to be satisfied before FTS can be taxed in the
> source State. It is repeatedly emphasized that article 12(6) can come into
> play only when the ‗fees for technical services' meets the definition
> assigned to the said term under article 12(4) and since ‗place of
> performance test' must be met in order to meet the definition under article
> 12(4), unless the services are rendered in the other Contracting State, the
> same cannot be covered by article 12(6). When it is pointed out by us that
> this approach will render article 12(6) meaningless, since, in such a case,
> deeming clause to the effect that ‗services are deemed to have arisen in the
> other Page | 73 Contracting State' can only be invoked when services are
> performed in that other Contracting State - something which is patently
> absurd, learned counsel submits that if words of the treaty result in an
> absurdity, at best, to that extent, it is to be treated as unworkable. We
> cannot change the entire complexion of treaty provision in the name of
> making a segment thereof workable. Learned counsel thus urges us to hold
> that, in terms of the provisions of the applicable tax treaty, the payment
> in question were not liable to be taxed in India. Learned Departmental
> Representative, on the other hand, relies upon the orders of the authorities
> below, takes us through the same, and urges us to confirm the same. As far
> as taxability under the domestic law is concerned, it is submitted that in
> case we are to proceed on the basis that the royalties or fees for technical
> services can only be taxed in India only when not only the services are
> utilized in India, but also rendered in India, the source rule will cease to
> have any meaning. It is contended that the judgments of Hon'ble Supreme
> Court in the case of Ishikawajima Harima Heavy Industries Ltd.
(supra) and of Hon'ble Bombay High Court in the case of Clifford Chance
(supra) are clearly contrary to the legislative intent and the doubts, if any,
have been set at rest by the retrospective amendment in Explanation to section
9(1)(vii), as introduced by the Union Budget. It is submitted that once the
proposed amendments are carried out, these judicial precedents will no longer
constitute good law. (We may add that the proposed amendments relied upon by
the learned Departmental Representative, on which have also heard the learned
counsel for the assessee, are since carried out and legislative process for
the same is duly completed). As far as learned counsel's arguments on treaty
provisions are concerned, learned Departmental Representative mainly contends
that the deeming provision of article 12(6) is quite Page | 74 clear and
categorical, and we are urged to give it a sensible and reasonable meaning
which makes the provision workable rather than making the provision redundant.
It is submitted that when payment is made to a Chinese enterprise is made by
an Indian enterprise, the ‗fees for technical services' is deemed to have
arisen in India. In case we are to proceed on the basis that such deeming
provision can only be invoked when the services by Chinese enterprise are
rendered in India, this deeming clause will be rendered meaningless, as one
cannot deem something which exists in reality anyway. Whichever way we examine
the issue - whether under the Income-tax Act, 1961 of under the India China
tax treaty, according to the learned Departmental Representative, the payment
for tasting fees is liable to be taxed in India. We are thus urged to confirm
the findings of the authorities below and decline to interfere in the matter.
4\. We have given our careful consideration to the rival contentions, perused
the material on record and duly considered factual matrix of the case as also
the applicable legal position.
5\. As regards the taxability under the domestic law, we have noted that
section 9(1)(vii) provides that "income by way of fees for technical services"
payable by, inter alia, "a person who is a resident, except where the fees are
payable in respect of services utilised in a business or profession carried on
by such person outside India or for the purposes of making or earning any
income from any source outside India" will be deemed to accrue or arise in
India. There is also no dispute that the fees received by the assessee is
covered by the scope of ‗fees for technical services' under Explanation 2 to
section 9(1)(vii) which provides that for purposes of this clause, "fees for
technical services" means any consideration (including any lump sum
consideration) Page | 75 for the rendering of any managerial, technical or
consultancy services (including the provision of services of technical or
other personnel). There is also no dispute that the exclusion clause set out
in the said definition is not attracted.
6\. The case of the assessee, however, is that since the services are not
rendered in India, the provisions of section 9(1)(vii) cannot be invoked. The
main support for this proposition is assessee's reliance on the Hon'ble Bombay
High Court's judgment in the case of Clifford Chance (supra). It is,
therefore, necessary to deal with this case in some detail.
7\. In the case of Clifford Chance (supra) the appellant, an English law firm,
was rendering legal services in connection with three projects in India,
namely, Bhadravati Power Project, Vizag Power Project and Raviva Oil and Gas
Field Project. While the claim of the assessee was that only such portion of
the fees received, in connection with these projects is taxable in India as is
attributable to services performed in India, the Assessing Officer opined that
the total fees received for the India Project, whether the work was done in
India or outside India, was taxable in India. When this dispute finally
travelled before the Hon'ble Bombay High Court, it was, inter alia, contended
by the assessee that "the place of utilization of service is not relevant but
place of performance of the service is what would be determinative (of
taxability)....." and reliance was placed on Hon'ble Supreme Court's judgment
in the case of Ishikawajima Harima Heavy Industries Ltd. (supra). Their
Lordships noted that the taxability is to be determined under section
9(1)(vii) of the Act, and observed as follows :
> "The Apex Court had occasion to consider the above question in the case of
> Ishikawajima Harima [2007] 288 ITR 408 (SC), wherein, while interpreting
> Page | 76 the provisions of section 9(1)(vii)( c) of the Act, the Supreme
> Court held as under (page 444) :
> ‗Section 9(1)(vii)( c) of the Act states that ‗a person who is a non-
> resident, where the fees are payable in respect of services utilized in a
> business or profession carried on by such person in India, or for the
> purposes of making or earning any income from any source of India'.
Reading the provision in its plain sense, as per the Apex Court it requires
two conditions to be met--the services which are the source of the income that
is sought to be taxed, has to be rendered in India, as well as utilized in
India, to be taxable in India. Both the above conditions have to be satisfied
simultaneously. Thus for a non-resident to be taxed on income for services,
such a service needs to be rendered within India, and has to be part of a
business or profession carried on by such person in India.
In the above judgment, the Apex Court observed that (page
444) :
> ‗Section 9(1)(vii) of the Act must be read with section 5 thereof, which
> takes within its purview the territorial nexus on the basis whereof tax is
> required to be levied, namely, (a) resident; and (b) receipt of accrual of
> income'. According to the Apex Court, the global income of a resident
> although is subjected to tax, the global income of a non-resident may not
> be. The answer to the question would depend upon the nature of the contract
> and the provisions of the DTA. What is relevant is receipt or accrual of
> income, as would be evident from a plain reading of section 5(2) of the Act
> subject to the compliance with 90 days rule.
As per the above judgment of the apex court, the interpretation with reference
to the nexus to tax territories Page | 77 also assumes significance.
Territorial nexus for the purpose of determining the tax liability is an
internationally accepted principle. An endeavour should, thus, be made to
construe the taxability of a non-resident in respect of income derived by it.
Having regard to the internationally accepted principle and the DTAA, no
extended meaning can be given to the words "income deemed to accrue or arise
in India" as expressed in section 9 of the Act. Section 9 incorporates various
heads of income on which tax is sought to be levied by the Republic of India.
Whatever is payable by a resident to a non-resident by way of fees for
services, thus, would not always come within the purview of section 9(1)(vii)
of the Act. It must have sufficient territorial nexus with India so as to
furnish a basis for imposition of tax. Whereas a resident would come within
the purview of section 9(1)(vii) of the Act, a non-resident would not, as
services of a non-resident to a resident utilized in India may not have much
relevant in determining whether the income of the non-resident accrues or
arises in India. It must have a direct link between the services rendered in
India. When such a link is established, the same may again be subjected to any
relief under the DTAA. A distinction may also be made between rendition of
services and utilization thereof.
With the above understanding of law laid down by the Apex Court, if one turns
to the facts of the case in hand and examines them on the touchstone, section
9(1)(vii)(c ) which clearly states . . . where the fees are payable in respect
of services utilized in a business or profession carried on by such person in
India or for the purposes of making or earning any income from any source in
India. It is thus, evident that section 9(1)(vii)( c), read in its plain,
envisages the fulfilment of two conditions : services, which are source of
income sought to be taxed in India must be (i) utilized in Page | 78 India,
and (ii) rendered in India. In the present case, both these conditions have
not been satisfied simultaneously."
8\. It is thus clear that the judgment of Hon'ble Bombay High Court in
Clifford Chance's case (supra) rests on the legal premises that, under section
9(1)(vii), "services, which are source of income sought to be taxed in India,
must be (i) utilized in India; and (ii) rendered in India" and the conceptual
premises that "territorial nexus for the purpose of determining the tax
liability is an internationally accepted principle". Learned counsel has laid
lot of emphasis on these two principles.
9\. The legal proposition canvassed by the learned counsel, however, does no
longer hold good in view of retrospective amendment with effect from 1-6-1976
in section 9 brought out by the Finance Act, 2010. Under the amended
Explanation to section 9(1), as it exists on the statute now, it is
specifically stated that the income of the non-resident shall be deemed to
accrue or arise in India under clause (v) or clause (vi) or clause (vii) of
section 9(1), and shall be included in his total income, whether or not (a)
the non- resident has a residence or place of business or business connection
in India; or (b) the non-resident has rendered services in India. It is thus
no longer necessary that, in order to attract taxability in India, the
services must also be rendered in India. As the law stands now, utilization of
these services in India is enough to attract its taxability in India. To that
effect, recent amendment in the statute has virtually negated the judicial
precedents supporting the proposition that rendition of services in India is a
sine qua non for its taxability in India.
10\. The concept of territorial nexus, for the purpose of determining the tax
liability, is relevant only for a territorial tax system in which taxability
in a tax jurisdiction is confined to the income earned within its borders.
Under this Page | 79 system, any foreign income that is earned outside of its
borders is not taxed by the tax jurisdiction, but then apart from tax heavens,
the only prominent countries that are considered territorial tax systems are
France, Belgium, Hong Kong and the Netherlands, and in those countries also
this system comes with certain anti abuse riders. In other major tax systems,
the source and residence rules are concurrently followed. On a conceptual
note, source rule of taxation requires an income sourced from a tax
jurisdiction to be taxed in this jurisdiction, and residence rule of taxation
requires income, earned from wherever, to be taxed in the tax jurisdiction in
which earner is resident. In the US tax system, this residence rule is further
stretched to cover US taxation of all its citizens - irrespective of their
domicile, and the source rule is also concurrently followed. It is this
conflict of source and residence rules which has been the fundamental
justification of mechanism to relieve a taxpayer, whether under a bilateral
treaty or under domestic legislations, of the double taxation - either by way
of exclusion of income from the scope of taxability in one of the competing
jurisdictions or by way of tax credits. Except in a situation in which a
territorial method of taxation is followed, which is usually also a lowest
common factor in taxation policies of tax heavens, source rule is an integral
part of the taxation system and any double jeopardy, due to inherent clash of
source and residence rule, to a taxpayer is relieved only through the
specified relief mechanism under the treaties and the domestic law. It is thus
fallacious to proceed on the basis that territorial nexus to a tax
jurisdiction being sine qua non to taxability in that jurisdiction is a normal
international practice in all tax systems. This school of thought is now
specifically supported by the retrospective amendment to section 9.
Page | 80
11\. It is thus clear that Hon'ble Bombay High Court's judgment in the case of
Clifford Chance ( supra) is no longer good law, as there have been amendments
in law in consonance with the school of thought discussed above and these
amendment unambiguously negate the principle of territorial nexus which is the
under structure of line of reasoning adopted by the Hon'ble Courts above. It
is no longer necessary that, in order to invite taxability under section
9(1)(vii) of the Act, the services must be rendered in the Indian tax
jurisdiction. In our considered view, Therefore, the income of the Chinese
company, by way of impugned receipt of fees for technical services from an
Indian company, is to be deemed to accrue or arise in India under section
9(1)(vii) of the Act. It is accordingly liable to be taxed in India under the
domestic tax law.
12\. The next issue to be examined by us is whether or not the income earned
by the Chinese company is liable to be taxed in India under article 12 of the
India China tax treaty.
13\. Article 12 of the India China tax treaty provides as follows :
> Royalties and fees for technical services
> 1.Royalties or fees for technical services arising in a Contracting State
> and paid to a resident of the other Contracting State may be taxed in that
> other Contracting State.
> 2.However, such royalties or fees for technical services may also be taxed
> in the Contracting State in which they arise, and according to the laws of
> that Contracting State, but if the recipient is the beneficial owner of the
> royalties or fees for technical services, the tax so charged shall not
> exceed 10 per cent of the gross amount of the royalties of fees for
> technical services.
> Page | 81
3.The term "royalties" as used in this Article means payment of any kind
received as a consideration for the use of or the right to use, any copyright
of literary, artistic or scientific work including cinematograph films and
films or tapes for radio or television broadcasting, any parent, trade mark
design or model, plan secret formula or process, or for the use of, or the
right to use, industrial, commercial or scientific equipment, or for
information concerning industrial, commercial or scientific experience.
4.The term "fees for technical services" as used in this article means any
payment for the provision of services of managerial, technical or consultancy
nature by a resident of a Contracting State in the other Contracting State,
but does not include payment for activities mentioned in paragraph 2(k) of
article 5 and article 15 of the Agreement.
5.The provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 shall not apply if the beneficial owner
of the royalties or fees for technical services, being a resident of a
Contracting State, carries on business in the other Contracting State in which
the royalties of fees for technical services arise, through a permanent
establishment situated therein, or performs in that other Contracting State
independent personal services from a fixed base situated therein; and the
right, property or contract in respect of which the royalties or fees for
technical services are paid is effectively connected with such permanent
establishment or fixed base. In such case the provisions of article 7 or
article 14, as the case may be, shall apply.
6.Royalties or fees for technical services shall be deemed to arise in a
Contracting State when the payer is the Government of that Contracting State,
a Page | 82 political sub-division a local authority thereof or a resident of
that Contracting State. Where, however the person paying the royalties or fees
for technical services, whether he is a resident of a Contracting State or
not, has in a Contacting State a permanent establishment or a fixed base in
connection with which the liability to pay the royalties or fees for technical
services was incurred, and such royalties or fees for technical services are
borne by such permanent establishment or fixed base then such royalties or
fees for technical services shall be deemed to arise in the Contracting State
in which the permanent establishment or fixed base is situated.
7.Where by reason of a special relationship between the payer and the
beneficial owner or between both of them and some other person, the amount of
the royalties or fees for technical services, having regard to the use right
or information for which they are paid, exceeds the amount which would have
been agreed upon by the payer and the beneficial owner in the absence of such
relationship, the provisions of this article shall apply only to the last-
mentioned amount. In such case, the excess part of the payments shall remain
taxable according to the laws of each Contracting State, due regard being had
to the other provisions of this Agreement.
14\. A plain reading of the above treaty provisions show that under article
12(4) shows that what is covered by the basic definition of the expression
‗fees for technical services' is the "provision of services of managerial,
technical or consultancy nature" by a resident of a Contracting State in the
other Contracting State. In other words, technical services being provided by
resident of one of the Contracting State in the other Contracting State is
what will be covered Page | 83 by the basic rule under article 12(4). The
expression ‗provision of services' is not defined or elaborated anywhere in
the tax treaty. The argument of the learned counsel is that ‗provision of
services' should be construed as ‗rendition of services', but we will come to
that aspect a little later.
15\. It is also important to take note of the deeming fiction under article
12(6) of the treaty. This article, inter alia, provides that, "Royalties or
fees for technical services shall be deemed to arise in a Contracting State
when the payer is the Government of that Contracting State, a political sub-
division a local authority thereof or a resident of that Contracting State".
In other words, irrespective of the situs of technical services having been
rendered, according to this treaty provision, the fees for technical services
will be deemed to have accrued in the tax jurisdiction in which person making
the payment is located. That is a typical manifestation of the source rule
that we have discussed earlier in this order in the context of domestic law
provisions, and which, in principle, requires taxability of an income in the
tax jurisdiction in which it is sourced. Normally, the source of an income is
the country in which person making the payment is located. There could, of
course, be situations in which a payment related to business or profession
being carried out in one country is being made by a resident of another
country who is carrying out such business or profession in the first country.
In these situations, even though the payment is not received from a resident
of the first country, the true source of earning is located in the first
country. Second limb of article 12(6) takes care of such situations and makes
the manifestation of source rule even more unambiguous. It provides that even
when person making the payment is not resident of the other contracting state
but the payment is being made by him in connection with a permanent Page | 84
establishment or fixed base in the other Contracting State, such royalties and
fees for technical services will be deemed to have accrued in the other
Contracting State. In such a situation, the true source jurisdiction will be
that other contracting state even though the payment may be made from outside
both the Contracting States, and, therefore, the income is deemed to have
accrued in that other Contracting State.
16\. When we put it to the learned counsel that in view of the deeming fiction
of article 12(6), it is not really necessary to go into the broader question
about the merits of his arguments on the scope of article 12(4) and proceed on
the basis that the payments made by an Indian company will be deemed to have
arisen in India even under the Indo China tax treaty, he has submitted that
once a fees for technical service is not covered by the basic provisions of
article 12(4), which is confined to services having been rendered in the
Source State, there is no occasion of invoking article 12(6). It is submitted
that the deeming provision for article 12(6) is confined to what is already
covered by ‗royalties and fees for technical services' which are neatly
defined in article 12(4) and it does not seek to extend the scope of the said
basic definition. It is only after 12(4) is satisfied that the deeming fiction
can be invoked. He invites our attention to corresponding article of China
Pakistan tax treaty, i.e., article 13, which does not have any such deeming
fiction but which provides that "the term ‗fees for technical services', as
used in this article, means any consideration (including any lump sum
consideration) for the provision of rendering of any managerial, technical or
consultancy services by a resident of one of the Contracting State in the
other Contracting State". It is pointed out that in China Pakistan tax treaty,
there is no additional source rule, i.e., deeming fiction, for the fees for
technical services, even Page | 85 though there is a deeming fiction of source
rule for ‗royalties'. It is thus pointed out that Chinese tax treaties, which
do not generally have ‗fees for technical services' clause, have a ‗place of
performance test', or negation of source rule, in several tax treaties. We are
urged to recognize this underlying principle in Chinese tax treaties. It is
also pointed out that this phenomenon is not unique to Chinese tax treaties.
Our attention is invited to India Israel tax treaty which provides, under
article 13(5), that ‗fees for technical services' will be deemed to arise in a
Contracting State only when services are rendered in that State and the payer
is resident of that State. A reference is then made to India Saudia Arabia tax
treaty in which a specific provision for taxability of ‗fees for technical
services' is said to be altogether absent, which, according to the learned
counsel, shows that it is not at all necessary that the source rule must
extend to all payments for fees for technical services.
17\. We are unable to see any merits in this line of arguments either. Whether
a particular income is to be covered by the benefits of a tax treaty or not is
essentially a decision at the level of the Governments and it depends on
several considerations - all of which do not necessarily reflect sound
taxation or sound economic policies. Just because India does not seek a source
taxation right in tax treaty with Saudia Arabia, or because Pakistan gives up
a source taxation right in tax treaty with China, it cannot influence as to
what is the scope of India China tax treaty. It is not at desirable to be
influenced with what has been decided in other tax-treaties entered into by
the Contracting States. As regards the references to India Israel and India
Saudia Arabaia tax treaties, therefore, these are tax treaties with different
countries and whatever is decided in these tax treaties does not influence the
scope of tax treaty before us. As far as China Pakistan tax treaty is
concerned, we have Page | 86 noted that while China Pakistan tax treaty refers
to "provision of rendering of any managerial, technical or consultancy
services (emphasis supplied by us)", India China tax treaty refers to
"provision of services of managerial, technical or consultancy services". The
scope the expression ‗provision of services' has to be something wider than
‗provision of rendering of services'. If at all this contrast with China
Pakistan tax treaty shows something, this contrast shows that the India China
tax treaty intends to follow the source rule, while China Pakistan tax treaty
gives up the source rule for fees for technical services. The difference
between these two clauses can hardly be missed, and it becomes all the more
clear when one takes into account the fact that while there is a deeming
fiction clause in article 12(6) of India China tax treaty, taking care of the
situations in which payments are made by persons not resident in the other
Contracting State, though they have a permanent establishment or fixed base in
the other Contracting State, there is no such corresponding clause in China
Pakistan tax treaty. It is thus clear, from the material placed before us,
that while India China tax treaty follows the source rule in the matter of
fees for technical services, Pakistan China tax treaty does not do so. That's
a conscious choice by the respective Governments, and just because China
Pakistan have negotiated a bilateral tax treaty in a particular manner, it
does not mean that India China tax treaty should also be construed on the same
basis.
18\. We have also noted that any other meaning being assigned to the scope
expression ‗fees for technical services' will render article 12(6)
meaningless. When we put this proposition to the learned counsel for the
assessee, he could not point out any situations in which, in such a situation,
article 12(6) will have any application but then he added that merely because
a provision will be rendered Page | 87 infructuous, he should not be shy of
giving the treaty a correct literal interpretation. We do not think that will
be a correct approach for us. In the case of Hindalco Industries Ltd. v.
Asstt. CIT [2005] 94 ITD 242 (Mum.) this Tribunal had an occasion to set out
the principles on the basis of which tax treaties are to be interpretated.
Summarzing these principles, and speaking through one of us (i.e., the
Accountant Member), this Tribunal has observed as follows :
"The school of thought emerging from the above discussions leads us to
conclude that the principles governing interpretation of tax treaties can be
broadly summed up as follows :
uA tax treaty is an agreement and not taxing statute, even though it is an
agreement about how taxes are to be imposed. The principles adopted in the
interpretation of statutory legislation are not applicable in interpretation
of treaties.
uA tax treaty is to be interpreted in good faith in accordance with the
ordinary meaning given to the treaty in the context and in the light of its
objects and purpose.
uA tax treaty is required to be interpreted as a whole, which essentially
implies that the provisions of the treaty are required to be construed in
harmony with each other.
u The words employed in the tax treaties not being those of a regular
Parliamentary draughtsman, the words need not examined in precise grammatical
sense or in literal sense. Even departure from plain meaning of the language
is permissible whenever context so requires, to avoid the absurdities and to
interpret the treaty ut res magis valeat quam pereat, i.e., in such a manner
as to make it workable rather than redundant.
Page | 88 u A literal or legalistic meaning must be avoided when the basic
object of the treaty might be defeated or frustrated insofar as particular
items under consideration are concerned. Words are to be understood with
reference to the subject-matter, i.e., verba accopoenda sunt secundum
subjectum materiam.
u It is inevitable that interpreter of a tax treaty is likely to be required
to cope with disorganised composition instead of precision drafting.
Therefore, the words employed in the treaty are to be given a general meaning
- general to lawyers and general to layman alike.
u When a tax treaty does not define a term employed in it, and the context of
the treaty so requires, it can be given a meaning different from domestic law
meaning thereof. The meaning of the undefined terms in a tax treaty should be
determined by reference to all of the relevant information and all on the
relevant context. There cannot, however, be any residual presumption in favour
of a domestic law meaning of a treaty term." (Emphasis supplied)
19\. In view of the above, a literal interpretation to a tax treaty, which
renders treaty provisions unworkable and which is contrary to the clear and
unambiguous scheme of the treaty, has to be avoided. In any case, even on
merits, we are of the considered view that the scope of the expression
‗provision for services' is much wider in scope that the expression ‗provision
for rendering of services' and will cover the services even when these are not
rendered in the other Contracting State, as long as these services are used in
the other Contracting State. Therefore, the technical services in question are
clearly covered by article 12(4) of the treaty. This position is further
clarified, and is specifically covered by the deeming fiction under article
12(6) as well. The impugned payment to the Chinese company, therefore, is
covered by the scope of "fees for Page | 89 technical services" within
meanings assigned to that expression under article 12 of the Indian China tax
treaty, and is taxable in India as such.
20\. For the detailed reasons set out above, we are of the considered view
that the impugned payment was taxable in India under the provisions of the
Indian Income-tax Act, 1961, as also under the provisions of the applicable
India China tax treaty. The tax withholding liability of the appellant, under
section 195, being in the nature of vicarious liability, therefore, did extend
to deduction of tax at source from the payment of US $ 1,000,000 made to the
Chinese company. We, therefore, approve the conclusions arrived at by the
learned CIT (A) and decline to interfere in the matter.‖ Therefore,
respectfully following the decision of the coordinate bench we also reject
this argument of the assessee and hold that Article 12 (4) of India China DTAA
does not provide that services should be rendered in India to qualify as ‗Fees
for Technical services'.
79\. The next argument of the assessee was that assessee was under a bona fide
belief for non-deduction of tax at source on these testing charges paid to the
foreign parties. On careful consideration of the argument of the assessee
which is emanating from para number 32 of the decision of the honourable
Bombay High Court in case of Kotak securities Ltd (340 ITR 333), wherein the
honourable High Court held that since both the Revenue and the assessee were
under the bona fide belief for nearly a decade that tax was not deductible at
source on payment of transaction charges, no fault can be found with the
assessee in not deducting the tax at source in the assessment year in question
and consequently disallowance made by the Assessing Officer under section
40(a)(ia) of the Act in respect of the transaction charges cannot be
sustained. Before us, no evidences were produced before us that there was any
bona fide belief for non-deduction of tax at source as revenue was constantly
saying that the tax at sources are deductible on such payments. No evidences
were produced before us that the assessee was under a bona fide belief that
tax is not deductible on such Page | 90 testing charges. It is also not shown,
even if there is a belief, whether the same was bona fide or not. The other
decisions relied upon by the learned authorised representative all were
related to the provisions of Section 201 of the income tax that where there is
a specific exclusion for ‗good and sufficient reasons' for non-deduction of
tax at source. Such provisions are absent under the provisions of Section 40
(a)(i) of the act. In view of this, this argument of the assessee is rejected.
80\. The learned authorised representative submitted that a provision of
Section 40 (a) (ia) has undergone changes over a period of time. This Section
relate to payment to a resident. It is submitted that the disallowance
according to the amendment made with effect from 1 April 2015 restricted the
disallowance at the rate of 30% of the sum payable. Therefore, according to
the learned authorised representative, disallowance should be restricted in
case of a payment made to a non-resident also at the rate of 30% while
applying the provisions of Section 40 (a) (i) of the act. We find that the
legislature thought fit in its own wisdom to restrict the disallowance when
the payment is made to a resident without deduction of tax at source to the
extent of 30% of the sum payable. There is no such amendment found in that the
provisions of Section 40 (a) (i) of the act. We cannot add or insert a
condition that was not envisaged in a provision of the law by the lawmakers.
It amounts to rewriting the provisions of the law itself that we are not
authorised to.On perusal of various decision cited, they do not canvass the
view advanced by ld AR on this issue. In view of this, this argument of the
learned authorised representative is rejected.
81\. As we have refused to read the conditions prescribed u/s 40(a) (ia) of
the act of disallowance at the rate of 30% in case the payment is made to a
resident in Section 40(a) (i) of the act, the another argument of the assessee
that it amounts to discrimination with respect to the payment made to non-
resident compared to the payment made to a resident, also does not deserve any
consideration. Even otherwise, both are different provisions to be applied in
different situations. Undoubtedly, both the provisions are applicable with
respect to the resident assessee only, who is the payer. Therefore, there are
two different conditions one for ‗payment made by a resident to a non-
resident' [u/s 40(a) (i) and another by ‗a resident to a Page | 91 resident' [
u/s 40 (a) (ia)]. In view of this, we do not find there is any discriminatory
treatment given to a non-resident entity. In fact a non resident assessee is
not at all concerned with above payments and its disallowance in the hands of
a resident payer. Therefore, there is no discrimation with respect to
nationality. Decisions cited by ld AR does not support the contentions raised
on this issue. Thus, this argument of the learned AR is also rejected.
82\. The ld AR fairly agreed that in DTAA between India and China and India
and Germany, in Article 12 of those treaties, there is no condition of ‗make
available' for taxation of ‗Fees For technical services'. No other articles of
DTAA were referred or pressed up on.
83\. In view of this with respect to the payment to China based agents and
Germany based agents the disallowance is confirmed and the payment made to
Kema and CSA International is deleted. Thus, AO is directed to delete the
disallowance of Rs payment of Rs. 18,17,430/- are related to payment made to
USA and Netherland and we confirm the disallowance of Rs 7,85,444/- for
payments made to Testing agencies in China and Germany. Accordingly, ground
No. 1 of the appeal is partly allowed.
84\. Ground No. 2 is with respect to the claim of the assessee of deduction
u/s 80IC of the Act. The facts show that in the return of income assessee has
claimed deduction of Rs. 645962957/- u/s 80IC of the Act. The assessee also
supported it by filing audit report in the form 10CCB along with tax audit
report. During the course of hearing on 11.11.2009 the assessee filed a
revised report in the form No. 10CCB wherein, deduction was increased by Rs.
4488012/- at Rs. 650450969/-. The AO noted that assessee has not filed any
revised return but has claimed the enhanced deduction by filing the letter.
The reason for such revision in the claim was found that the assessee had
suffered loss of Rs. 4488012/- in its unit No. 2 of Badi, Hamichal Pradesh. At
the time of filing of original report in the audit report the assessee reduced
the profit eligible for deduction u/s 80IC of Badi Unit No. 1 by the loss of
Unit NO. 2 of Badi. Both the units are undisputedly eligible for deduction u/s
80IC of the Act. Therefore, apparently the loss of Badi Unit No. 2 went to
reduce the eligible profit of Badi Unit No. 1 of Rs. 4488012/-. The ld AO
disallowed the claim in view of decision of the Hon'ble Page | 92 Supreme
Court in 284 ITR 323 wherein, it has been held that no claim can be
entertained by the ld AO without having revised return filed by the assessee.
Thus, the claim of the assessee for higher deduction u/s 80IC was not
accepted. The assessee aggrieved with the order of the ld AO preferred an
appeal before the ld CIT (A) who also confirmed the action of the ld AO.
Therefore, the assessee is in appeal before us.
85\. The ld AR submitted that it was merely an adjustment of the claim already
made by the assessee in the original return of income. He submitted that some
modification of the claim already made in the original return of income is not
hit by the above decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court. He referred to the
several judicial precedents. He further submitted that the ld CIT (A) should
have allowed the claim of the assessee as the decision of the Hon'ble Supreme
Court applies only to the ld AO and not the appellate authorities. He
vehemently relied upon the several judicial precedents.
86\. On merits, he submitted that the exclusion of the loss of the eligible
unit against the income of another eligible unit cannot be net off against
each other as deduction u/s 80IC of the Act is allowable with respect to each
eligible industrial undertaking. He relied upon the several judicial
precedents. Thus, according to him deduction claimed by the revised letter
before the ld AO should have been allowed to the assessee.
87\. The ld DR vehemently supported the orders of the lower authorities. He
submitted that the assessee should have filed the revised return if it wanted
to claim the share deduction.
88\. We have carefully considered the rival contention and perused the orders
of the lower authorities. Undoubtedly, the assessee had two eligible units,
profit of which is eligible for deduction u/s 80IC of the Act. These two units
are Unit No. 1 and Unit No. 2 at Badi, Himachal Pradesh. At the time of filing
of the original return of income, the assessee found that it has earned profit
in Unit No. 1 and has incurred loss in Unit NO. 2, but it filed the audit
report claiming the net profit/loss of both these units taken together u/s
80IC. During the course of hearing, assessee might have come to know that the
loss incurred in one eligible units is not require to reduce the profit of
another eligible unit. It was found that if the eligible unit incurs a loss,
it is to be ignored for computing deduction u/s 80IC of the Act. Therefore,
the Page | 93 assessee filed a letter before the ld AO claiming enhanced
amount of deduction. The ld AO rejected the same following the decision of the
Hon'ble Supreme Court in 284 ITR 393. On appreciation of the facts narrated,
in the orders of the lower authorities, it is an admitted fact that assessee
did not revise its return of income. The decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court
in Goetz India Ltd though applies to the ld AO but does not apply to the
appellate authorities. The decisions cited by the ld AR are clearly support
the above view. Thus, according to us the ld CIT (A) should have considered
the claim of the assessee, though not made by the revised return. As it is a
simple arithmetic calculation and there is no dispute about the sum involved,
we direct the ld AO to allow the claim of the assessee u/s 80IC of the Act to
the extent of profit earned by Unit No. 1 at Badi. The ld AO further directed
to not to set off the loss incurred by Unit NO. 2, another eligible unit by
reducing the deduction of section 80IC of the Act. Accordingly, ground No. 2
of the appeal is allowed.
89\. In the result, appeal of the assessee is partly allowed.
90\. In the result all the three appeals are disposed of.
Order pronounced in the open court on 25/08/2020.
                 -Sd/-                                              -Sd/-
            (AMIT SHUKLA)                                   (PRASHANT MAHARISHI)
           JUDICIAL MEMBER                                   ACCOUNTANT MEMBER
    Dated: 25/08/2020
    A K Keot
    Copy forwarded to
      1.   Applicant
      2.   Respondent
      3.   CIT
      4.   CIT (A)
      5.   DR:ITAT
                                                                  ASSISTANT REGISTRAR
                                                                    ITAT, New Delhi
                                                                                Page | 94
to not to set off the loss incurred by Unit NO. 2, another eligible unit by
reducing the deduction of section 80IC of the Act. Accordingly, ground No. 2
of the appeal is allowed.
89\. In the result, appeal of the assessee is partly allowed.
90\. In the result all the three appeals are disposed of.
Order pronounced in the open court on 25/08/2020.
                 -Sd/-                                              -Sd/-
            (AMIT SHUKLA)                                   (PRASHANT MAHARISHI)
           JUDICIAL MEMBER                                   ACCOUNTANT MEMBER
    Dated: 25/08/2020
    A K Keot
    Copy forwarded to
      1.   Applicant
      2.   Respondent
      3.   CIT
      4.   CIT (A)
                PAN: AAACH0351E                             New Delhi
                     (Appellant)                          (Respondent)
                                 ITA No. 466/Del/2011
                               (Assessment Year: 2007-08)
                   ACIT (LTU),              Vs.       Havells India Ltd,
          NBCC Plaza, Pusp Vihar, Sector-          1/7 Ram Kishore Road,
               4, Saket, New Delhi                  Civil Lines, New Delhi
                                                     PAN: AAACH0351E
                   (Appellant)                           (Respondent)
                    Assessee by :                   Shri Rohit Jain, Adv
                                                  Ms. Deepashree Rao, CA
                                                   Shri Vibhu Gupta, CA
                    Revenue by:                  Shri Saras Kumar, Sr. DR
                  Date of Hearing                       20/07/2020
               Date of pronouncement                    25/08/2020
                                       ORDER
PER PRASHANT MAHARISHI, A. M.
01\. This is a bunch of three appeals of the same assessee for two Assessment
Years, which were argued together by the parties; therefore, same is disposed
off by this common order.
to not to set off the loss incurred by Unit NO. 2, another eligible unit by
reducing the deduction of section 80IC of the Act. Accordingly, ground No. 2
of the appeal is allowed.
89\. In the result, appeal of the assessee is partly allowed.
90\. In the result all the three appeals are disposed of.
Order pronounced in the open court on 25/08/2020.
                 -Sd/-                                              -Sd/-
            (AMIT SHUKLA)                                   (PRASHANT MAHARISHI)
           JUDICIAL MEMBER                                   ACCOUNTANT MEMBER
    Dated: 25/08/2020
    A K Keot
    Copy forwarded to
      1.   Applicant
      2.   Respondent
      3.   CIT
      4.   CIT (A)
                PAN: AAACH0351E                             New Delhi
                     (Appellant)                          (Respondent)
                                 ITA No. 466/Del/2011
                               (Assessment Year: 2007-08)
                   ACIT (LTU),              Vs.       Havells India Ltd,
          NBCC Plaza, Pusp Vihar, Sector-          1/7 Ram Kishore Road,
               4, Saket, New Delhi                  Civil Lines, New Delhi
                                                     PAN: AAACH0351E
                   (Appellant)                           (Respondent)
                    Assessee by :                   Shri Rohit Jain, Adv
                                                  Ms. Deepashree Rao, CA
                                                   Shri Vibhu Gupta, CA
                    Revenue by:                  Shri Saras Kumar, Sr. DR
                  Date of Hearing                       20/07/2020
               Date of pronouncement                    25/08/2020
                                       ORDER
PER PRASHANT MAHARISHI, A. M.
01\. This is a bunch of three appeals of the same assessee for two Assessment
Years, which were argued together by the parties; therefore, same is disposed
off by this common order.
to not to set off the loss incurred by Unit NO. 2, another eligible unit by
reducing the deduction of section 80IC of the Act. Accordingly, ground No. 2
of the appeal is allowed.
89\. In the result, appeal of the assessee is partly allowed.
90\. In the result all the three appeals are disposed of.
Order pronounced in the open court on 25/08/2020.
                 -Sd/-                                              -Sd/-
            (AMIT SHUKLA)                                   (PRASHANT MAHARISHI)
           JUDICIAL MEMBER                                   ACCOUNTANT MEMBER
    Dated: 25/08/2020
    A K Keot
    Copy forwarded to
      1.   Applicant
      2.   Respondent
      3.   CIT
      4.   CIT (A)
                PAN: AAACH0351E                             New Delhi
                     (Appellant)                          (Respondent)
                                 ITA No. 466/Del/2011
                               (Assessment Year: 2007-08)
                   ACIT (LTU),              Vs.       Havells India Ltd,
          NBCC Plaza, Pusp Vihar, Sector-          1/7 Ram Kishore Road,
               4, Saket, New Delhi                  Civil Lines, New Delhi
                                                     PAN: AAACH0351E
                   (Appellant)                           (Respondent)
                    Assessee by :                   Shri Rohit Jain, Adv
                                                  Ms. Deepashree Rao, CA
                                                   Shri Vibhu Gupta, CA
                    Revenue by:                  Shri Saras Kumar, Sr. DR
                  Date of Hearing                       20/07/2020
               Date of pronouncement                    25/08/2020
                                       ORDER
PER PRASHANT MAHARISHI, A. M.
01\. This is a bunch of three appeals of the same assessee for two Assessment
Years, which were argued together by the parties; therefore, same is disposed
off by this common order.
Page | 1 ITA no 6072/Del/2010 for A Y 2004-05 [By Assessee]
02\. ITA No 6072/Del/2010 for Assessment Year: 2004-05 is filed by the
assessee against the order of the ld CIT(A)-XII, New Delhi dated 07.12.2010
raising following grounds of appeal:-
> "1. That on the facts and in the circumstances of the case and the legal
> position, the learned CIT (Appeals) has erred in confirming the interest of
> Rs.280276/- paid to Syndicate Bank as capital nature as against revenue in
> nature claimed by the appellant company.
> 2 (i) That on the facts and in the circumstances of the case and the legal
> position, the learned CIT (Appeals) has erred;
> \- in confirming the amount of Rs. 5 lacs paid to G.S Lighting Pvt. Ltd
to not to set off the loss incurred by Unit NO. 2, another eligible unit by
reducing the deduction of section 80IC of the Act. Accordingly, ground No. 2
of the appeal is allowed.
89\. In the result, appeal of the assessee is partly allowed.
90\. In the result all the three appeals are disposed of.
Order pronounced in the open court on 25/08/2020.
                 -Sd/-                                              -Sd/-
            (AMIT SHUKLA)                                   (PRASHANT MAHARISHI)
           JUDICIAL MEMBER                                   ACCOUNTANT MEMBER
    Dated: 25/08/2020
    A K Keot
    Copy forwarded to
      1.   Applicant
      2.   Respondent
      3.   CIT
      4.   CIT (A)
                PAN: AAACH0351E                             New Delhi
                     (Appellant)                          (Respondent)
                                 ITA No. 466/Del/2011
                               (Assessment Year: 2007-08)
                   ACIT (LTU),              Vs.       Havells India Ltd,
          NBCC Plaza, Pusp Vihar, Sector-          1/7 Ram Kishore Road,
               4, Saket, New Delhi                  Civil Lines, New Delhi
                                                     PAN: AAACH0351E
                   (Appellant)                           (Respondent)
                    Assessee by :                   Shri Rohit Jain, Adv
                                                  Ms. Deepashree Rao, CA
                                                   Shri Vibhu Gupta, CA
                    Revenue by:                  Shri Saras Kumar, Sr. DR
                  Date of Hearing                       20/07/2020
               Date of pronouncement                    25/08/2020
                                       ORDER
PER PRASHANT MAHARISHI, A. M.
01\. This is a bunch of three appeals of the same assessee for two Assessment
Years, which were argued together by the parties; therefore, same is disposed
off by this common order.
Page | 1 ITA no 6072/Del/2010 for A Y 2004-05 [By Assessee]
02\. ITA No 6072/Del/2010 for Assessment Year: 2004-05 is filed by the
assessee against the order of the ld CIT(A)-XII, New Delhi dated 07.12.2010
raising following grounds of appeal:-
> "1. That on the facts and in the circumstances of the case and the legal
> position, the learned CIT (Appeals) has erred in confirming the interest of
> Rs.280276/- paid to Syndicate Bank as capital nature as against revenue in
> nature claimed by the appellant company.
> 2 (i) That on the facts and in the circumstances of the case and the legal
> position, the learned CIT (Appeals) has erred;
> \- in confirming the amount of Rs. 5 lacs paid to G.S Lighting Pvt. Ltd
to not to set off the loss incurred by Unit NO. 2, another eligible unit by
reducing the deduction of section 80IC of the Act. Accordingly, ground No. 2
of the appeal is allowed.
89\. In the result, appeal of the assessee is partly allowed.
90\. In the result all the three appeals are disposed of.
Order pronounced in the open court on 25/08/2020.
                 -Sd/-                                              -Sd/-
            (AMIT SHUKLA)                                   (PRASHANT MAHARISHI)
           JUDICIAL MEMBER                                   ACCOUNTANT MEMBER
    Dated: 25/08/2020
    A K Keot
    Copy forwarded to
      1.   Applicant
      2.   Respondent
      3.   CIT
      4.   CIT (A)
