Income Tax Appellate Tribunal - Delhi
Giesecke & Devrient India Pvt. ... vs Dcit, New Delhi on 23 August, 2018
                IN THE INCOME TAX APPELLATE TRIBUNAL
                     DELHI BENCH: 'I-2' NEW DELHI
          BEFORE SHRI PRAMOD KUMAR, ACCOUNTANT MEMBER
                               &
             SHRI SUDHANSHU SRIVASTAVA, JUDICIAL MEMBER
                           ITA No.-5924/Del/2012
                         (Assessment Year: 2008-09)
    Giesecke & Devrient India vs DCIT
    Pvt. Ltd.                     Circle-12(1),
    Corporate Office, Plot #57,   Central Revenue Building
    Sector-44                     New Delhi
    Gurgaon
    PAN : AABCG4223D
            Assessee by         Sh. Harpreet Ajmani, Adv., Sh.
                                Rohan Khare, Adv.
            Revenue by          Ms. Vatsala Jha, CIT, DR
                      Date of Hearing            24.05.2018
                   Date of Pronouncement         23.08.2018
objection with verification of such claim. In terms of the above, we direct
the AO to verify and allow the claim of the Assessee regarding granting full
credit of advance tax of Rs.20,698,500/- paid by the Assessee and also short
credit of tax deducted at source of Rs.15,01,872/-. 4.0 In the final result,
the appeal of assessee is partly allowed for statistical purposes in terms of
our above observations.
111 ITA NO. 5924/Del/2012 (Giesecke & Devrient India Pvt. Ltd.) Order
pronounced in the open court on 23.08.2018 Sd/- Sd/-
        (PRAMOD KUMAR)                   (SUDHANSHU SRIVASTAVA)
     ACCOUNTANT MEMBER                       JUDICIAL MEMBER
    Dated: 23rd August, 2018
    Copy forwarded to:
    1.  Appellant
    2.  Respondent
    3.  CIT
    4.  CIT(Appeals)
                   Date of Pronouncement         23.08.2018
                                     ORDER
PER SUDHANSHU SRIVASTAVA, J.M.
This present appeal by the assessee is preferred against the Final Assessment
Order dated 18.09.2012 passed under section 144C read with section 143(3) of
the Income Tax Act, 1961 (hereinafter called "the Act").
2.0 Brief facts of the case are that the assessee is a wholly owned subsidiary
of Giesecke & Devrient GmBH("G&D GmBH") and is engaged in the business of
trading of Currency Verification and Processing Systems ("CVPS") and
assembling and distribution of SIM cards to the telecommunication service 2
ITA NO. 5924/Del/2012 (Giesecke & Devrient India Pvt. Ltd.) providers.
Further, the company is also engaged in providing software services to G&D
GmBH.
2.1 The return of income for year was filed declaring an income of
Rs.1,89,362/-. Subsequently, the return was revised declaring an income of RS.
3,34,31,113/-. Since the Assessee had entered into international transactions,
reference was made to the Transfer Pricing Officer ("TPO") to determine the
Arm's Length Price (ALP) of the international transactions. Details of the
transactions undertaken by the Assessee are as under:-
           S. NO.   NATURE OF TRANSACTION                        AMOUNT            (In
                                                                 INR)
             1.     Import   of    CVPS       Machines     and 32,65,84,552
                    spare         parts        ("Distribution
                    Function")
2\. Import of Raw Material for SIM 11,97,70,998 Card ("Assembly Function")
3\. Software Development 8,93,34,164
4\. Sale of SIM Cards 4,94,72,539
5\. Import of Capital Equipment 2,22,07,884
6\. Provision of Installation Services 93,23,193
7\. Service Expenses 1,11,21,465
8\. Commission Expenses 48,84,400
9\. Interest on External Commercial 73,87,140 Borrowing
10\. Repairs and Maintenance 59,09,162
11\. Other Expenses 34,97,831
12\. Reimbursement of Expenses 51,43,772
13\. Sale of others 1,13,248 3 ITA NO. 5924/Del/2012 (Giesecke & Devrient
India Pvt. Ltd.) 2.2 From the international transactions declared by the
Assessee, the TPO picked up the transactions regarding the Software
Development Segment and the SIM Card Assembly Segment. With regard to the
Software Development Segment, the Assessee had selected OP/OC as the Profit
Level Indicator ("PLI") whilst applying TNMM as the Most Appropriate Method
("MAM") and declared its margin at 11.04%. The assessee, further, in its
Transfer Pricing Study (TP Study) had selected a total of 18 comparables with
an average OP/OC of 14.05% and hence claimed the said transaction to be at
arm's length. The TPO while accepting the MAM as selected by the assessee,
accepted only 7 out of the 18 comparables and further introduced 12 additional
comparables with an average OP/OC of 24.95% thereby determining an adjustment
of Rs. 1,10,57,340/- for the Software Development Segment.
2.3 In the SIM Card Assembly Segment, the assessee had declared a PLI of
(15.22%) and justified the same to be owing to various circumstances such as
initial years of operation, high competition in the market etc. The assessee,
in its TP study, had selected 5 comparables with an average OP/OC of 6.39%.
During the transfer pricing proceedings, the TPO issued a show cause notice to
the assessee and vide the assessee's reply dated 05.10.2011, the assessee
submitted a detailed reasoning as to why it had incurred 4 ITA NO.
5924/Del/2012 (Giesecke & Devrient India Pvt. Ltd.) losses and additionally
also objected to one of the comparables selected by the assessee itself which
was acceded to by the TPO. Thereafter, the final OP/OC of the comparables was
worked out at 4.78% as opposed the margin of (15.22%) of the Assessee and an
adjustment of Rs. 12,04,39,125/- was determined by the TPO. 2.4 Aggrieved, the
assessee preferred to file objections before the Ld. Dispute Resolution Panel
("DRP"), which were disposed off vide directions dated 08.08.2012. The Ld. DRP
upheld the action of the TPO vis-à-vis the software development segment.
Regarding the SIM Card Assembly Segment, the Ld. DRP rejected the plea of the
assessee regarding provision for capacity under-utilization adjustment and
working capital adjustment, but granted partial relief whilst directing
exclusion of one comparable namely M/s Solectron EMS Limited.
2.5 The said directions culminated into the final assessment order dated
18.09.2012 against which the assessee has approached the ITAT and has raised
the following grounds of appeal:- "Transfer Pricing- Software Development
Segment [Rs. 1,10,57,340]
1\. On the facts and in law, the Learned Transfer Pricing Officer
\- I(2), New Delhi ("Ld. TPO") and Deputy Commissioner of Income Tax, the
Learned Assessing Officer ("Ld. AO") erred 5 ITA NO. 5924/Del/2012 (Giesecke &
Devrient India Pvt. Ltd.) in determining and the Hon'ble Dispute Resolution
Panel ("Hon'ble DRP") erred in confirming the addition of Rs.1,10,57,340 in
relation to international transactions pertaining to software development
segment.
1.1 On facts and in law, the Ld. TPO, Ld. AO and the Hon'ble DRP erred in
rejecting the Transfer Pricing ("TP") Documentation maintained by the
Appellant u/s 92D of the Income Tax Act, 1961 ("the Act"), read with Rule 10D
of the Income Tax Rules, 1962 ("the Rules") and in carrying out a fresh search
for comparable companies using inappropriate filters.
1.2 On the facts and in law, the Ld. TPO, the Ld. AO and the Hon'ble DRP erred
in using data obtained pursuant to issuance of notice under Section 133(6) of
the Act which was not available to the Appellant at the time of maintenance of
Transfer Pricing Documentation, thereby contravening the provisions of Rule
10B(4) of the Rules and further, erred in not providing the complete
information which was called pursuant to issuance of notice under Section
133(6) of the Act.
1.3 On the facts and in law, the Ld. TPO, the Ld. AO and the Hon'ble DRP erred
in selecting certain companies as comparable, with a prejudiced intention of
making an addition to the returned income of the Appellant, without
appreciating that in cognizance of Rule 10B(2)(b), the 6 ITA NO. 5924/Del/2012
(Giesecke & Devrient India Pvt. Ltd.) functional, asset and risk profile of
these alleged comparable companies are dissimilar with that of the Appellant.
1.4 On the fact and in the circumstances of the case and in law, the Ld. TPO,
the Ld. AO and the Hon'ble DRP erred in changing the profit margin computation
of alleged comparable companies by incorrectly considering certain income /
expense as operating / non-operating. 1.5 On the facts and in law, the Ld.
TPO, the Ld. AO and the Hon'ble DRP erred in not allowing risk adjustment to
the Appellant, thereby contravening the Rule 10B(1)(e)(iii). Transfer Pricing
- SIM Card Assembly Segment [Rs.118,461,592]
2\. On the facts and in law, the Ld. TPO and the Ld. AO erred in determining
and the Hon'ble DRP erred in confirming the addition of Rs.11,84,61,592 in
relation to international transactions pertaining to SIM card assembly
segment. 2.1 On the facts and in law, the Ld. TPO, the Ld. AO and the Hon'ble
DRP erred in directly applying the Operating Margin ("OP Margin") of
comparable companies in the SIM card assembly segment to that of the Appellant
without taking into account commercial reasons and factual data to support the
losses incurred in the SIM card assembly segment. 2.2 On the facts and in law,
the Ld. TPO, the Ld. AO and the Hon'ble DRP erred in making a conjecture that
the Appellant 7 ITA NO. 5924/Del/2012 (Giesecke & Devrient India Pvt. Ltd.)
imported chips from its associated enterprise at a considerably higher price
without negotiating for reduction in price or subsidy.
2.3 On the facts and in law, the Ld. TPO, the Ld. AO and the Hon'ble DRP erred
in disregarding the internal comparability analysis with respect to in-house
assembly of SIM Cards vis- à-vis outsourcing the assembly of SIM Cards to a
third party. 2.4 On the facts and in law, the Ld. TPO, the Ld. AO and the
Hon'ble DRP erred in considering the erroneous margins of comparable companies
accordingly erred in computing the amount of adjustment on account of transfer
price. 2.5 On facts and in law, the Ld. TPO, the Ld. AO and the Hon'ble DRP
violated the provisions of Rule 10B(1)(e)(iii) and Rule 10B(3) of the Rules by
denying the benefit of working capital adjustment based on erroneous reasons.
2.6 On facts and in law, the Ld. TPO, the Ld. AO and the Hon'ble DRP violated
the provisions of Rule 10B(1)(e)(iii) and Rule 10B(3) of the Rules by denying
the benefit of idle capacity adjustment to eliminate differences on account of
capacity utilization of the Appellant vis-à-vis the comparable companies.
2.7 On facts and in law, the Ld. TPO, the Ld. AO and the Hon'ble DRP erred in
relying on erroneous calculation for computing 'cash losses' (before
depreciation) for the purposes of 8 ITA NO. 5924/Del/2012 (Giesecke & Devrient
India Pvt. Ltd.) eliminating differences arising on account of capacity
utilization vis-à-vis comparables and further, failed to produce correct
computation in this regard.
2.8 On the facts and in law, the Ld. TPO, the Ld. AO and the Hon'ble DRP erred
in computing the amount of adjustment by considering total cost and sales,
instead of apportioning the same to relevant transactions of the Appellant
with associated enterprises and non-associated enterprises.
3\. On the facts and in law, the Ld. TPO, the Ld. A.O. and the Hon'ble DRP
erred in disregarding prior years' data used by the Appellant to benchmark the
international transactions in its TP documentation for the year and holding
that current year (i.e. Financial Year 2007-08) data for comparable companies
should be used despite the fact that the same was not necessarily available to
the Appellant at the time of preparing its TP documentation, and grossly
misinterpreting the requirement of "contemporaneous" data in the Rule 10B(4)
of the Rules to necessarily imply current year data, thereby breaching the
principles in natural justice and "impossibility of performance".
4\. On the facts and in law, the Ld. TPO, the Ld. AO and the Hon'ble DRP erred
in not granting the benefit of the 5% variation as per the proviso to section
92C(2) of the Act to the Appellant, as the law stood at the time of
preparation of TP documentation.
9 ITA NO. 5924/Del/2012 (Giesecke & Devrient India Pvt. Ltd.)
5\. On the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the Ld. AO erred in
initiating penalty proceedings under section 271(1)(c) of the Act.
6\. On the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the Ld. AO erred in
levying interest under section 234B of the Act.
7\. On the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the Ld. AO has erred in
not granting full credit of advance tax of Rs.20,698,500 paid by the appellant
and also short credit of tax deducted at source of Rs.15,01,872 on the income
of the appellant."
2.6 The assessee, vide application dated 24.09.2014, has also raised the
following additional grounds:-
> 2.9 Without prejudice to our other grounds of appeal, the Ld.
> TPO ought to have considered that in view of the peculiar facts of the
> matter Giesecke & Devrient GmBH should have been taken as 'Tested Party' for
> the purpose of benchmarking international transaction in respect to SIM Card
> assembly segment.
> 2.10 Without prejudice to our other grounds of appeal, the Ld.
> TPO ought to have considered that pursuant to Rule 10B of the Income Ta
> Rules, 1962 and the OECD Guidelines the 'Tested Party' is one with less
> complex functional analysis 10 ITA NO. 5924/Del/2012 (Giesecke & Devrient
> India Pvt. Ltd.) where profitability can be reliably ascertained with least
> adjustments."
3.0 At the outset, the Ld. Counsel for the assessee submitted that Ground Nos.
3 to 5 are not being pressed. We dismiss these two grounds as not pressed.
3.1 We now take up the assessee's grounds (Ground Nos. 1 to 1.5) regarding the
software development segment. Both the parties have agreed that lower
authorities have not disputed the functional profile of the assessee under the
Software Development Segment, wherein the assessee was acting as a captive
service provider and all the risks were borne by the Associated Enterprise
(AE). The assessee did not own any intellectual property. The assessee, vide a
detailed chart, has agitated the exclusion of the following 16 comparables and
the inclusion of 2 comparables finally selected by the TPO: (A) COMPARABLES
BEING SOUGHT TO BE EXCLUDED:
> i. Avani Cincom Technologies ii. Bodhtree Consulting Limited iii. Celestial
> Labs iv. E-Zest Solutions Limited v. Igate Global Solutions Ltd.
          vi.    Infosys Technologies Ltd.
          vii.   Kals Systems Limited (Segmental)
                                       11          ITA NO. 5924/Del/2012
                                           (Giesecke & Devrient India Pvt. Ltd.)
        viii.     LGS Global Ltd.
            ix.   Mindtree Limited (Segmental)
            x.    Persistent Systems Pvt. Ltd.
            xi.   Quintegra Solutions Limited
        xii.      R System International Limited
        xiii.     Softsol India Limited
        xiv.      Tata Elxi Limited
         xv.      Thirdware Solution Limited
        xvi.      Wipro Limited (Segmental)
> (B) COMPARABLES BEING SOUGHT TO BE INCLUDED:
> i. SIP Technologies and Exports Limited ii. PSI Data System Ltd.
> 3.2.0 Now, we will deal with all these comparables individually.
We will first take up the comparables which the assessee is agitating for
exclusion from the final set of comparables selected by the TPO and as
affirmed by the Ld. DRP.
(i) Avani Cincom Technologies ("Avani Cincom"): 3.2.1 This comparable was
rejected by the assessee in the TP study for the reason of there being
insufficient data in the public domain but was introduced by the TPO. The
assessee objected to the inclusion of Avani Cincom but the objections were
rejected by the TPO/ Ld. DRP. Before us, the Ld. Counsel for the assessee,
vide a detailed chart and a hand out from of the website, argued that Avani 12
ITA NO. 5924/Del/2012 (Giesecke & Devrient India Pvt. Ltd.) Cincom was not
functionally comparable to the assessee since the assessee was a captive
software service provider and on the contrary Avani Cincom was engaged in
provision of both software development services and also development of
software products. Additionally, it was argued that the segmental details of
the company were not available and that the Annual Report available in the
public domain was also incomplete. The Ld. Counsel placed heavy reliance on
the order of the co-ordinate Bench of ITAT Bangalore in the case of Sun Gard
Solutions India Pvt. Vs. ACIT reported in [2015] 63 taxmann.com 323 (Bangalore
- Trib.) and other decisions of coordinate Benches referred in his chart,
which are for the same Assessment Year i.e. 2008-09, where the co-ordinate
benches had take a view that Avani Cincom was not functionally comparable to a
captive software service provider.
3.2.2 The Learned Departmental Representative (CIT DR), on the other hand,
supported the orders of the authorities below. It was vehemently argued before
us that since this company passes all the filters, thus, it is a fit
comparable.
3.2.3 We have heard the rival submissions and carefully considered the
material on record. This company was selected by the TPO as a comparable, in
spite of the objections of the assessee that this company is not functionally
comparable to the assessee as it is 13 ITA NO. 5924/Del/2012 (Giesecke &
Devrient India Pvt. Ltd.) into software products whereas the assessee offers
software development services to its Associated Enterprise ('AE'). The TPO
rejected the assessee's objections on the ground that thiscompany had
categorised itself as a pure software developer, just like the assessee. In
selecting this company as a comparable, the TPO had relied on information
submitted by this company collected under Section 133(6) of the Act. We notice
that the co-ordinate Bench of Tribunal in the case of Sun Gard Solutions India
Pvt. vs. ACIT reported in [2015] 63 taxmann.com 323 (Bangalore - Trib.), while
considering this comparable for the same financial year, has observed as
follows :
> "6.4.1 We have heard the rival contentions and have perused and carefully
> considered the material on record; including the judicial decisions cited
> and placed reliance upon. We find that the co- ordinate bench in the case of
> 3DPLM Software Solutions Ltd. (supra) for Assessment Year 2008-09 has held
> that this company is functionally dis-similar and different from the
> assessee who is a provider of software development services to its AEs and
> directed that this company be omitted from the list of comparables. At paras
> 7.6.1 and 7.6.2 of its order, the co-ordinate bench held as under:--
> "7.6.1 We have heard both parties and perused and carefully considered the
> material on record. It is seen from the record that the TPO has included
> this company in the final set of comparables only on the basis of
> information obtained under section 133(6) of the Act. In these 14 ITA NO.
> 5924/Del/2012 (Giesecke & Devrient India Pvt. Ltd.) circumstances, it was
> the duty of the TPO to have necessarily furnished the information so
> gathered to the assessee and taken its submissions thereon into
> consideration before deciding to include this company in its final list of
> comparables. Non-furnishing the information obtained under section 133(6) of
> the Act to the assessee has vitiated the selection of this company as a
> comparable.
> 7.6.2 We also find substantial merit in the contention of the learned
> Authorised Representative that this company has been selected by the TPO as
> an additional comparable only on the ground that this company was selected
> in the earlier year. Even in the earlier year, it is seen that this company
> was not selected on the basis on any search process carried out by the TPO
> but only on the basis of information collected under section 133(6) of the
> Act. Apart from placing reliance on the judicial decision cited above,
> including the assessee's own case for Assessment Year 2007-08, the assessee
> has brought on record evidence that this company is functionally dis-similar
> and different from the assessee and hence is not comparable. Therefore the
> finding excluding it from the list of comparables rendered in the
> immediately preceding year is applicable in this year also. Since the
> functional profile and other parameters by this company have not undergone
> any change during the year under consideration which fact has been
> demonstrated by the assessee, following the decisions of the co-ordinate
> benches of this Tribunal in the assessee's own case for Assessment Year
> 2007-08 in ITA No.845/Bang/2011 dt.22.2.2013, and in the case of Triology
> E-Business Software India Pvt. Ltd. (ITA No.1054/Bang/2011), we direct the
> A.O./TPO to omit this company from the list of comparables."
6.4.2 Following the aforesaid decision of the co-ordinate bench of this
Tribunal in the case of 3DPLM Software Solutions Ltd. (supra), we direct the
Assessing Officer/TPO to exclude this company from the list of comparables."
                                      15          ITA NO. 5924/Del/2012
                                          (Giesecke & Devrient India Pvt. Ltd.)
    3.2.4     We are of the view that the factual matrix is similar with
the decision of co-ordinate bench in Sun Gard Solutions India Pvt. vs. ACIT,
[2015] 63 taxmann.com 323 (Bangalore - Trib.). Respectfully following the view
taken by co-ordinate Benches of the Tribunal, we direct the AO / TPO to
exclude this company from the list of comparables. We also note that since
complete details of this comparable is not available in public domain and
there is contradiction in the information collected under section 133(6) of
the Act and the annual report then such a company cannot be selected as a fit
comparable.
(ii) Bodhtree Consulting Limited ("Bodhtree"): 3.2.5 The next comparable being
agitated by the Assessee is Bodhtree Consulting Limited. The said comparable
was rejected by the Assessee in its Transfer Pricing study for not being
functionally comparable and being engaged in niche IT services. Before us, the
Ld. Counsel for the Assessee strongly argued for exclusion of the said
comparable on the ground that Bodhtree is an end to end web solutions provider
and was earning income from sale of its software products. Additionally, it
was pointed out whilst referring to the 16 ITA NO. 5924/Del/2012 (Giesecke &
Devrient India Pvt. Ltd.) Annual report that there was insufficient segmental
data vis-à-vis the incomes from services and products. The Ld. Counsel placed
strong reliance on the co-ordinate bench decision in the case of Sun Gard
Solutions India Pvt. vs. ACIT reported in [2015] 63 taxmann.com 323 (Bangalore
- Trib.) and order of the Delhi Bench of Tribunal in the case of Nokia Siemens
Networks India Pvt. Ltd v ACIT in ITA No. 333/Del/2013, wherein the said
comparable was excluded primarily for being a software product company.
Reliance was also placed on the decision of Delhi Bench of the Tribunal in
Saxo India Private Limited vs. ACIT (ITA No. 6148/Del/2015) [subsequently
affirmed by Hon'ble Delhi High Court in ITA 682/2016] wherein the comparable
was excluded as being engaged in the business of Software Development and
Software Product and no segmental details being available. It was fairly
pointed out that though there is no finding of the Ld. DRP on this comparable
but it was submitted that since all the material facts are available on record
and there is no dispute on application of filters, the issue may be
adjudicated. 3.2.6 The Learned Departmental Representative, on the other hand,
supported the orders of the authorities below. It was fairly conceded before
us that there is no difficulty in adjudication of this comparable basis the
facts on record. It was vehemently argued 17 ITA NO. 5924/Del/2012 (Giesecke &
Devrient India Pvt. Ltd.) before us that since this company passes all
filters, thus, it is a fit comparable.
3.2.7 We have heard the rival submissions and perused the material on record
along with the various decisions of the co-ordinate benches. We are of the
opinion that in view of all relevant facts being available on record, there is
no impediment in adjudicating the issue. Our view is fortified by the judgment
of the Hon'ble Delhi High Court in the case of Pr. CIT vs. Pitney Bowes
Software India Pvt. Ltd in ITA 681/2015, vide order dated 28.09.2015, wherein
the High Court had categorically held that the Tribunal was justified in
adjudicating a comparable which was not agitated by the assessee either before
the TPO or the Ld. DRP.
3.2.8 We note that the coordinate Bench of the ITAT in Nokia Siemens Networks
India Pvt. Ltd vs. ACIT in ITA No. 333/Del/2013 has excluded this comparable
by observing as follows:
> "43. From Page No 12 of the Paper book containing Annexure II to the
> Directors' report, a part of the annual report of the company, we find that
> this company is engaged in only one segment which comprises of income from
> software development, open and end to end web solutions, software
> consultancy designs and software products; whereas the Assessee is engaged
> in rendering software development services. Under Note 5 "Segmental
> Information", it is stated that the company has only one identifiable
> reporting segment that is software development service, showing that no 18
> ITA NO. 5924/Del/2012 (Giesecke & Devrient India Pvt. Ltd.) separate
> segmental finances relating to the software development open and end-to-end
> web solutions, software consultancy designs and software products are
> available.
44\. It is argued on behalf of the assessee that this company is following a
different pricing model, as is evident from the annual report to be found at
paper book page No. 24 that the revenues from software development is
recognized based on software developed and billed to the client whereas the
assessee is a captive software developer for its AE's.
45\. Ld. AR placed reliance on a decision of this Tribunal in ITA No.
6402/DEL/2012 (AY 2008-09) in the case of Aircom International (India) Pvt Ltd
v DCIT, (2017) 50 CCH 0280 (hereinafter "Aircom") in support of his plea that
Bodhtree is engaged in providing open and end-to-end web solutions, software
consultancy, design and development of solutions, using the latest
technologies and not comparable with the company which is into the business of
softwaredevelopment and providing related services to its AE. The coordinate
Bench in the judgment of Aircom (supra) has excluded this comparable company
by making following observations:
> "15.2. We find from the Annual report of this company that it: "has only one
> segment, namely, software development. Being a software solutions company,
> which is engaged in providing open and end-to-end web solutions, software
> consultancy, design and development of solutions, using the latest
> technologies." Thus, it can be seen that this company is providing end-to-
> end solutions and also consultancy which is not the case with the assesse
> company. Another relevant factor to be noticed is Page 1254 of the paper
> book, which divulges the significant accounting policies of this company.
> Under the head 'Revenue recognition', it has been mentioned that: "revenue
> from software development is recognized based on software developed and
> billed to clients." As 19 ITA NO. 5924/Del/2012 (Giesecke & Devrient India
> Pvt. Ltd.) against this, the Schedule forming part of the accounts of the
> assessee company provides for revenue recognition in the terms: "revenue
> from software developed is recognized over the contracted period of
> development on cost plus basis." It can be seen that there is a lot of
> difference in the revenue recognition models of the assessee as well as
> Bodhtree Consulting Ltd. This factor, in addition to the functional
> dissimilarity as discussed above, makes this company non comparable with the
> assesse company. We, therefore, order to exclude it from the list of
> comparables."
> 46\. There is no dispute that the Aircom is also into the business of
> software development and providing related services to its AE. We are,
> therefore, of the considered opinion that being a software solutions company
> which is engaged in providing open and end- to-end web solutions, software
> consultancy, design and development of solutions, using the latest
> technologies, Bodhtree company cannot be compared to the assessee which is a
> captive software developer for its AE's."
3.2.9 We are of the view that the factual matrix in the present matter is
similar with the decision of coordinate bench in Nokia Siemens Networks India
Pvt. Ltd vs. ACIT in ITA No. 333/Del/2013 and respectfully following the view
taken by co-ordinate Bench of Tribunal, we direct the AO / TPO to exclude this
company from the list of comparables. Our view is further fortified by the
judgment of the Hon'ble Delhi High Court in the case of Saxo India (supra)
wherein their Lordships have clarified that a company engaged in providing
Software Development Service cannot be regarded as a fit 20 ITA NO.
5924/Del/2012 (Giesecke & Devrient India Pvt. Ltd.) comparable to a company
engaged in providing both Software Development and Software Product services
and sufficient segmental details are not available.
(iii) Celestial Labs ("Celestial"):
3.2.10 The next comparable being challenged by the assessee is Celestial Labs.
The said comparable was introduced by the TPO as being functionally comparable
to the assessee and also on the ground that the said comparable was considered
as a comparable in the preceding assessment year. Before us, the Ld. Counsel
for the Assessee firstly contended that merely because the comparable was
taken as a comparable in the preceding assessment year would not by itself be
a ground for its acceptance in the subsequent assessment year. The Ld. Counsel
placed reliance on the judgments of the Hon'ble Delhi High Court in Rampgreen
Solutions Pvt. Ltd. vs. CIT reported in [2015] 377 ITR 533 (Delhi),
Chryscapital Investment Advisors Pvt. Ltd. vs. DCIT reported in [2015] 376 ITR
183 (Delhi) and Avenue Asia Advisors Private Limited vs. DCIT (ITA No.
350/2016) and submitted that the functionality of an entity is the key
determinative factor for its inclusion or exclusion in the list of comparables
and there is no such thing as estoppel on the ground that the assessee had
accepted the entity as being functionally comparable in a previous assessment
21 ITA NO. 5924/Del/2012 (Giesecke & Devrient India Pvt. Ltd.) year. It was
fairly accepted that though there is no finding of the Ld. DRP on this
comparable but since all material facts are available on record and there is
no dispute on application of filters, adjudication on this comparable could be
made.
3.2.11 On merits, the Ld. Counsel submitted that Celestial could not be held
as a comparable since its functionality was very different from that of the
Assessee. It was further submitted that Celestial was into bio-informatics
software products and owing to insufficiency of segmental data in the Annual
Report, the same could not be accepted as a comparable. The Ld. Counsel took
us through the annual report to show that during the impugned year Celestial
had issued an IPO and also owned intangibles.
3.2.12 On the contrary, the Ld. CIT DR appearing on behalf of the Department
contended that the said comparable had already been accepted by the assessee
as being functionally comparable in the preceding year and hence the assessee
was barred from taking a contrary stand in the impugned year. On merits she
placed strong reliance on the orders of the TPO/ Ld. DRP and contended that
the findings of the TPO were well substantiated.
3.2.13 Having heard the parties, we are in agreement with the contentions of
the Ld. Counsel for assessee that unless the Function, Assets and Risk profile
of a comparable is demonstrated to be 22 ITA NO. 5924/Del/2012 (Giesecke &
Devrient India Pvt. Ltd.) similar/dissimilar from record, a comparable cannot
per se be excluded / included only on account of its selection in the previous
assessment year. Rule 10B(1)(e) read with Rule 10B(2)/(3) of the Income Tax
Rules, 1962 lays down broad parameters regarding comparability of a controlled
transaction with an uncontrolled transaction. It is well settled that there
can be no estoppel against law. Selection of comparable being a factual
exercise needs to be undertaken by looking at the functions, assets and risk
profile of a comparable for that relevant assessment period. Our view is
further fortified by the judgments of the Hon'ble Delhi High Court in
Rampgreen Solutions Pvt. Ltd. vs. CIT, [2015] 377 ITR 533 (Delhi),
Chryscapital Investment Advisors Pvt. Ltd. vs. DCIT [2015] 376 ITR 183 (Delhi)
and Avenue Asia Advisors Private Limited vs. DCIT (ITA No. 350/2016).
3.2.14 On merits, we are of the view that the factual position in the present
matter is similar with the decision of the Bangalore Bench of the Tribunal in
Sun Gard Solutions India Pvt. vs. ACIT reported in [2015] 63 taxmann.com 323
(Bangalore - Trib.), wherein this comparable was excluded by the coordinate
bench whilst observing as follows :
> "7.4.1 We have heard the rival submissions and perused and carefully
> considered the material on record, including the judicial 23 ITA NO.
> 5924/Del/2012 (Giesecke & Devrient India Pvt. Ltd.) decisions cited. We find
> that the co-ordinate bench of this Tribunal in the case of 3DPLM Software
> Solutions Ltd. (supra) for Assessment Year 2008-09 had held that this
> company, being into bio-informatics and software products and services, is
> to be omitted from the list of comparables as it was functionally dis-
similar and different from a captive software service provider. At paras 9.4.1
and 9.4.2 of the above order, the co-ordinate bench held as under:--
> "9.4.1 We have heard both the parties and perused and carefully considered
> the material on record. While it is true that the decisions cited and relied
> on by the assessee were with respect to the immediately previous assessment
> year, and there cannot be an assumption that it would continue to be
> applicable for this year as well, the same parity of reasoning is applicable
> to the TPO as well who seems to have selected this company as a comparable
> based on the reasoning given in the TPO's order for the earlier year. It is
> evidently clear from this that the TPO has not carried out any independent
> FAR analysis for this company for this year viz. Assessment Year 2008-09. To
> that extent, in our considered view, the selection process adopted by the
> TPO for inclusion of this company in the list of comparables is defective
> and suffers from serious infirmity. 9.4.2 Apart from relying on the afore
> cited judicial decisions in the matter (supra), the assessee has brought on
> record substantial factual evidence to establish that this company is
> functionally dis-similar and different from the assessee in the case on hand
> and is therefore not comparable and also that the findings rendered in the
> cited decisions for the earlier years i.e. Assessment Year 2007-08 is
> applicable for this year also. We agree with the submissions of the assessee
> that this company is functionally different from the assessee. It has also
> been so held by co-ordinate benches of this Tribunal in the assessee's own
> case for Assessment 24 ITA NO. 5924/Del/2012 (Giesecke & Devrient India Pvt.
> Ltd.) Year 2007-08 (supra) as well as in the case of Triology E- Business
> Software India Pvt. Ltd. (supra). In view of the fact that the functional
> profile of and other parameters of this company have not changed in this
> year under consideration, which fact has also been demonstrated by the
> assessee, following the decision of the co-ordinate benches of the Tribunal
> in the assessee's own case for Assessment Year 2007-08 in ITA
> No.845/Bang/2011 and Triology E-Business Software India Pvt. Ltd. in ITA No.
> 1054/Bang/2011, we hold that this company ought to be omitted from the list
> of comparables. The A.O. /TPO are accordingly directed." 7.4.2 Following the
> aforesaid decision of the co-ordinate bench of this Tribunal in the case of
> 3DPLM Software Solutions Ltd. (supra) for Assessment Year 2008-09, we direct
> the Assessing Officer/TPO to omit this company from the list of
> comparables."
3.2.15 Respectfully following the decision of coordinate bench in Sun Gard
Solutions India Pvt. vs. ACIT reported in [2015] 63 taxmann.com 323 (Bangalore
- Trib.), we direct the Assessing Officer/TPO to exclude this company from the
final list of comparables.
(iv) E-Zest Solutions Limited("E-Zest"):
3.2.16 The Ld. Counsel for the assessee has argued for exclusion of E-Zest
from the final list of comparables on the ground that the said company is
functionally dissimilar to assessee, as it is engaged in providing e-Business
Consulting services including product 25 ITA NO. 5924/Del/2012 (Giesecke &
Devrient India Pvt. Ltd.) development services and technical services which
they themselves characterise as Knowledge Process Outsourcing ('KPO')
services. He submitted that even as per the information gathered by the TPO
under section 133(6) of the Act, this comparable is also engaged in software
products. Whilst placing heavy reliance on the company's website handout along
with the Annual Report, he submitted that the assessee being a captive
software development company cannot be compared with a KPO. Additionally, he
took us through the annual report to evidence that no segmental data vis-à-vis
the services and products was available.
3.2.17 Per contra, the Ld. CIT DR supported the orders of the TPO in including
this company as a comparable.
3.2.18 We have considered the arguments of both the parties and also the
material available on record. We are of the view that the factual position in
the present matter is similar with decision of coordinate bench in Sun Gard
Solutions India Pvt. Ltd. vs. ACIT in ITA No. 1487/Bang/2012, wherein it is
held as follows:
> "8.4.1 We have heard the rival contentions and perused and carefully
> considered the material on record; including the judicial decision cited. We
> find that the co-ordinate bench of this Tribunal in the case of 3DPLM
> Software Solutions Ltd. (supra) for Assessment Year 2008-09 has omitted this
> company from the list of comparables on the ground that the KPO services
> rendered by it 26 ITA NO. 5924/Del/2012 (Giesecke & Devrient India Pvt.
> Ltd.) are not comparable to those rendered by a captive provider of software
> development services. At para 14.4 of its order, the co-
ordinate bench has held as under:--
> "14.4 We have heard the rival submissions and perused and carefully
> considered the material on record. It is seen from the record that the TPO
> has included this company in the list of comparables only on the basis of
> the statement made by the company in its reply to the notice under section
> 133(6) of the Act. It appears that the TPO has not examined the services
> rendered by the company to give a finding whether the services performed by
> this company are similar to the software development services performed by
> the assessee. From the details on record, we find that while the assessee is
> into software development services, this company i.e. e- Zest Solutions
> Ltd., is rendering product development services and high end technical
> services which come under the category of KPO services. It has been held by
> the co- ordinate bench of this Tribunal in the case of Capital I-Q
> Information Systems (India) (P.) Ltd. (supra) that KPO services are not
> comparable to software development services and are therefore not
> comparable. Following the aforesaid decision of the co-ordinate bench of the
> Hyderabad Tribunal in the aforesaid case, we hold that this company, i.e.
> e-Zest Solutions Ltd. be omitted from the set of comparables for the period
> under consideration in the case on hand. The A.O./ TPO is accordingly
> directed."
8.4.2 Following the above decision of the co-ordinate bench of this Tribunal
in the case of 3DPLM Software Solutions Ltd. (supra) for Assessment Year
2008-09, we direct the Assessing Officer to exclude this company i.e. e-Zest
Solutions Ltd., from the list of comparables."
                                      27          ITA NO. 5924/Del/2012
                                          (Giesecke & Devrient India Pvt. Ltd.)
    3.2.19     Respectfully following the decision of coordinate bench in
Sun Gard Solutions India Pvt. vs. ACIT reported in [2015] 63 taxmann.com 323
(Bangalore - Trib.), we direct the Assessing Officer/TPO to exclude this
company from the final list of comparables.
(v) Igate Global Solutions Ltd. ("Igate"):
3.2.20 The next comparable being contested for exclusion is Igate Global
Solutions Limited. The assessee rejected Igate in its TP Study holding the
same to be functionally different. The TPO, however, included the same in the
final list of comparables. Before us, the Ld. Counsel of the assessee
submitted that Igate deserved to be excluded from the final list of
comparables since Igate was engaged in rendering both software development as
well as ITES Services. While referring to the notes to accounts of the annual
report, he argued that that no proper segmental data were maintained by the
said company. He also drew our attention to the fact that there was a merger
during the relevant year. Hence, it was submitted that the said comparable
deserves to be excluded. It was fairly accepted that though there is no
finding of the Ld. DRP on this comparable but since all the material facts
were available on record and as there was no dispute on application of
filters,the issue could be adjudicated. He relied on the 28 ITA NO.
5924/Del/2012 (Giesecke & Devrient India Pvt. Ltd.) co-ordinate bench's
decision in the case of Nokia Siemens Networks India Pvt. Ltd vs. ACIT in ITA
No. 333/Del/2013 in which the co- ordinate bench, whilst appreciating the fact
that Igate was providing various services and owing to the fact that there was
no segmental data, directed its exclusion.
3.2.21 The Ld. CIT DR, on the other hand, whilst taking support from the
orders of the lower authorities vehemently supported Igate's inclusion. She
fairly conceded that since the assessee is not arguing regarding application
of filters and reliance is placed only on the financials to demonstrate
difference in functionality, she has no objection if the issue of exclusion of
this comparable is adjudicated by the Bench.
3.2.22 We have heard the rival submissions and perused the material on record.
In view of the necessary facts being available on record, we do not see any
impediment in adjudicating this comparable. On merits, we do not agree with
the submissions of Ld. Counsel for the assessee that this Company ought to be
removed from the list of comparables only on account of disclosure of
'Amalgamation' in the Annual Report being undertaken during this relevant
period. The Ld. Counsel has not shown the effect of this exceptional event
(Amalgamation) on the financials for the relevant period. However, we agree
with the submissions of the Ld. Counsel for 29 ITA NO. 5924/Del/2012 (Giesecke
& Devrient India Pvt. Ltd.) Assessee that this company is engaged in providing
array of services under the head Software Development and ITES and there are
insufficient segmental details vis-a-vis services rendered under these heads.
We note that for similar reasons this company was excluded by coordinate Bench
in the case of Nokia Siemens Networks India Pvt. Ltd. vs. ACIT in ITA No.
333/Del/2013. Respectfully following the view taken by the coordinate Bench,
we direct the AO/TPO to exclude this company from the list of comparables.
(vi) Infosys Technologies Ltd. ("Infosys"):
3.2.23 The next comparable which is being agitated for exclusion by the
assessee is Infosys Technologies Ltd. The said comparable was included by the
TPO whilst holding that Infosys passes all filters and was, hence, comparable
to the Assessee. Before us, the Ld. Counsel of the Assessee submitted that not
only is Infosys an industry giant but it also spends heavily on its Research &
Development (R&D) activities and owns significant intangibles. He took us
through the Annual Report of Infosys to substantiate that there is significant
difference in the scale of operations. Additionally, from the various pages of
the Annual report, he showcased as to how Infosys was providing a wide array
of services including software products, but insufficient segmental details
were mentioned in the financials.
                                    30          ITA NO. 5924/Del/2012
                                        (Giesecke & Devrient India Pvt. Ltd.)
    3.2.24    Per contra the Ld. CIT Departmental Representative placed
heavy reliance on the order passed by the lower authorities. 3.2.25 We have
heard the rival submissions and perused the relevant material on record. We
notice that on similar set of facts coordinate Bench of Tribunal in the case
of Nokia Siemens Networks India Pvt. Ltd. vs. ACIT in ITA No. 333/Del/2013,
has excluded this comparable by observing as follows:
> "78. This company is undoubtedly a corporate giant with its large scale of
> operations vis-à-vis the Assessee company; that it had a brand impact to
> determine the premium pricing; that it has a different model of revenue
> recognition. It is submitted on behalf of the assessee that this comparable
> has been rejected in Assessee's own case in immediately preceding year, i.e.
> AY 2007- 08 by the Tribunal on account of different risk profile, scale,
> nature of services, revenue ownership of branded/ proprietary products,
> onsite and offshore services etc. This fact is not contradicted by the
> revenue.
> 79\. Further, the Assessee has placed reliance on Aircom (supra), in order
> to exclude this comparable company on the basis of its magnitude. The
> coordinate bench has rejected this comparable by making following
> observations:-
> "17.2. We have considered the rival submissions and perused the relevant
> material on record. It can be seen that the TPO has included this company in
> the list of comparables by rejecting the assessee's contentions. The
> assessee is providing and assigning software services to its AE alone
> without acquiring any intellectual property rights in the work done by it in
> the development of software. The Hon'ble Delhi 31 ITA NO. 5924/Del/2012
> (Giesecke & Devrient India Pvt. Ltd.) High Court in CIT vs. Agnity India
> Technologies (P) Ltd. (2013) 219 Taxmann 26 (Del) considered the giantness
> of Infosys Ltd., in terms of risk profile, nature of services, number of
> employees, ownership of branded products and brand related profits, etc. in
> comparison with such factors prevailing in the case of Agnity India
> Technologies Pvt. Ltd., being, a captive unit providing software development
> services without having any IP rights in the work done by it. After making
> comparison of various factors as enumerated above, the Hon'ble Delhi High
> Court held Infosys Ltd. to be non-comparable with Agnity India
> TechnologiesPvt. Ltd. The facts of the instant case are similar to the
> extent that the extant assessee is also not owning any branded products and
> having no expenditure on R&D etc. When we consider all the above factors in
> a holistic manner, there remains absolutely no doubt that Infosys
> Technologies Ltd. is not comparable with the assesse company. Respectfully
> following the judgment of the Hon'ble jurisdictional High Court in Agnity
> India (supra), we hold that Infosys Technologies Ltd., cannot be treated as
> comparable with the assessee company. This company is, therefore, directed
> to be excluded from the list of comparables."
> 80\. The diversified activities of business, its deployment of capital,
> resources and the brand name make this company not comparable with the
> assessee and, therefore, this company has to be excluded from the final set
> of comparable companies for benchmarking international transaction related
> to software segment."
3.2.26 Respectfully following the view taken by the coordinate Bench, whilst,
following the judgment of the Hon'ble Delhi High Court, as afore mentioned, we
direct the AO/ TPO to exclude Infosys from the final list of comparables.
32 ITA NO. 5924/Del/2012 (Giesecke & Devrient India Pvt. Ltd.)
(vii) Kals Systems Limited (Segmental) ["Kals"]: 3.2.27 The next comparable
being agitated before us is Kals Systems Limited. In its TP study, the
assessee has rejected the said comparable as not being functionally
comparable. The TPO, however, introduced Kals as a comparable that it passes
all filters. Before us, the Ld. Counsel of the assessee strongly opposed the
inclusion of Kals and referring to the Annual Report of Kals submitted that
this comparable dealt in software products as well as services. By relying on
the screenshot of website of Kals, he argued that this company is engaged in
providing varied array of activities including software products. He argued
that even though the TPO had taken segmental details of Kals namely "Software
Development & Training" segment for comparison with assessee, but, as per the
financials, there is lack of segmental data/bifurcation vis-à-vis the income
and expenses in relation to the products developed and sold by Kals. 3.2.28
The Ld. CIT Departmental Representative relied on the orders of the lower
authorities and strongly argued for its inclusion. 3.2.29 We have heard the
rival contentions of the parties and also perused the relevant material on
record. We note that on similar set of facts, the coordinate Bench of the
Tribunal in the case of Nokia 33 ITA NO. 5924/Del/2012 (Giesecke & Devrient
India Pvt. Ltd.) Siemens Networks India Pvt. Ltd. vs. ACIT in ITA No.
333/Del/2013 has excluded this comparable by observing as follows:
> "81. At the outset it is brought to our notice that this company was
> considered by a coordinate bench of this tribunal in the immediately
> preceding year that is assessment year 2007-08 in assessee's own case and
> this Tribunal rejected this company to be included as a comparable to the
> assessee.
> 82\. On a perusal of the order dated 18.5.2016 in ITA No. 5837/Delhi/2011 in
> assessee's own case, we find that this company was considered by this
> Tribunal vide paragraph numbers 37 to 39 and found that the software segment
> of this company also includes revenues from software and training, whereas
> the assessee company is not engaged in imparting any training or selling its
> software products to attract revenue. On this premise, this Tribunal held
> that the finances of this company are not comparable with the assessee
> company and on that ground this company is not a valid comparable.
> 83\. Further, the Assessee has placed reliance on Aircom (supra), in order
> to exclude this comparable company on the ground that this company
> consisting of STP unit is engaged in software products and development of
> software and is also undertaking training activity of software professionals
> on online projects and not a good comparable. The coordinate bench has
> rejected this comparable by making following observations:-
> "18.3. After considering the rival submissions and perusing the relevant
> material on record, we find that the entire premise of the TPO's inclusion
> of this company in the list of comparables is that the software products and
> training constitute only 4.24% of its revenue. This inference has been 34
> ITA NO. 5924/Del/2012 (Giesecke & Devrient India Pvt. Ltd.) drawn on the
> basis of the information supplied by this company stating: "the use of
> readymade object laboratories is only to the tune of about (3.4 to 6.96) %
> in the year 2007-
> 08 to 2008-09 . We fail to comprehend as to how the above line conveys that
> the software products' revenue stands at 4.24%. What has been written is
> that the company's use of the readymade object laboratories is only to the
> tune of maximum 4.24%. By no imagination this can be construed as revenues
> from software products. When we peruse the Annual report of this company,
> which is available in the paper book, it can be seen that there is no such
> mention of software products revenue limited to 4.24%. On the contrary, it
> has been mentioned in the Notes to the financial statement that: "the
> company is engaged in development of software and software products since
> its inception." The company consisting of STPI unit is engaged in software
> products and development of software and is also undertaking training
> activity of software professionals on online projects. Not only the revenues
> of the segment considered by the TPO also include the revenue from software
> products, but also from training imparted on commercial basis. It is clear
> that the assessee is not providing any training under this segment, which
> has been rather included by the assessee in the second category of the
> assessee's business, namely, 'Software Deployment, Training, Consultancy and
> Equipment Rental.' Since the assessee's activity under this segment does not
> include any revenue from training, but the revenue of Kals Information
> Systems Ltd., for the purpose of comparison includes income from training,
> this company ceases to be comparable with the assessee's segment of
> `Software development services'. Similar view has been taken by the Tribunal
> in the assessee's own case for the immediately preceding assessment years
> 2006-07 and 2007-08. Respectfully following the precedents, we hold that
> Kals Information Systems Ltd. (Seg.) should be expunged from the set of
> comparables."
> 35 ITA NO. 5924/Del/2012 (Giesecke & Devrient India Pvt. Ltd.)
> 84\. No change of circumstances is brought to our notice either by the
> assesse or the revenue, as such we do not find any reason to take a
> different view from the view taken by this Tribunal for the earlier year.
> We, therefore, consequently hold that this company is not a valid comparable
> to that of the assessee and has to be excluded from the final set of
> comparable companies for benchmarking international transaction related to
> software segment."
3.2.30 Respectfully following the view taken by the coordinate Bench, we
direct the AO/TPO to exclude Kals from the list of comparables.
(viii) LGS Global Ltd. ("LGS"):
3.2.31 The next comparable being contested before us is LGS Global Ltd. At the
outset, it was fairly accepted by the Ld. Counsel of the assessee that the
said comparable was submitted by the assessee itself in its Transfer Pricing
Study. He, however, submitted that this is not a fit comparable and there is
difference in the FAR profile of this company vis-a-vis that of the assessee
and, thus, is not a suitable comparable in terms of Rule 10B (1)(e) read with
Rule 10B(2)/(3) of the Income Tax Rules, 1962. By relying on the decision of
the Special Bench in the case of DCIT v Quark Systems Pvt. Ltd. reported in
[2010] 38 SOT 307 (CHD)(SB) [which now stands confirmed by the 36 ITA NO.
5924/Del/2012 (Giesecke & Devrient India Pvt. Ltd.) Hon'ble High Court of
Punjab and Haryana in [2011] 244 CTR 542] he argued that there is no estoppel
against law and the assessee can agitate its own comparables. He submitted
that recently the Hon'ble High Court of Bombay in the case of CIT vs. Tata
Power Solar Systems Ltd. reported in [2017] 298 CTR 197 (Bombay) has taken
similar view. He submitted that although the said comparable was submitted by
the assessee itself in the Transfer Pricing study, but it was objected to
during the TP proceedings itself as is evident from Pg. 68 of the TPO's order.
3.2.32 On merits, the Ld. Counsel submitted that LGS could not be considered
as a comparable owing to functional differences in the profile of LGS in
comparison to that of the assessee. He took us through various pages of the
Annual Report to demonstrate that LGS was an end-to-end service provider and
was providing product evaluation, design and development of products.
Additionally, it was also pointed out that this comparable was providing BPO
Services in the field of Human Resources, life sciences, legal services,
supply chain management, sales, customer support etc. He drew our attention to
the notes to accounts to substantiate that segmental data for the variety of
services was not available. It was further submitted that the said comparable
failed the TPO's own foreign exchange earning filter.
                                       37            ITA NO. 5924/Del/2012
                                             (Giesecke & Devrient India Pvt. Ltd.)
    3.2.33       The Ld. CIT Departmental Representative, on the other
hand, strongly opposed the assessee agitating the said comparable since the
same was submitted and accepted by the assessee in its Transfer Pricing study.
Additionally, the Ld. CIT DR relied on the orders of the TPO and the Ld. DRP.
3.2.34 We have heard the parties at length and also perused the material on
record. We agree with the arguments advanced by the Ld. Counsel for the
assessee that there can be no estoppel against law in terms of selection of a
comparable and the comparability has to be adjudicated in terms of parameters
laid down under Rule 10B of the Rules. Our view is further fortified by the
judgment of the Hon'ble Bombay High Court in CIT vs. Tata Power Solar Systems
Ltd. reported in [2017] 298 CTR 197 (Bombay), wherein it has been observed as
follows :
> "We find that the impugned order of the Tribunal holding that a party is not
> barred in law from withdrawing from its list of comparables, a company, if
> the same is found to have been included on account of mistake as on facts,
> it is not comparable. The Transfer Pricing Mechanism requires comparability
> analysis to be done between like companies and controlled and un-controlled
> transactions. This comparison has to be done between like companies and
> requires carrying out of FAR analysis to find the same. Moreover, the
> Assessee's submission in arriving 38 ITA NO. 5924/Del/2012 (Giesecke &
> Devrient India Pvt. Ltd.) at the ALP is not final. It is for the TPO to
> examine and find out the companies listed as comparables which are, in fact
> comparable."
3.2.35 On merits, we note that on similar set of facts, the coordinate Bench
of Tribunal in the case of Nokia Siemens Networks India Pvt. Ltd. vs. ACIT in
ITA No. 333/Del/2013, has excluded this comparable by observing as follows:
> "85. Initially the assessee offered this company as a comparable, but the
> assessee claims to have found that this company is not a comparable and
> wrongly included in the final list of comparable companies. Inasmuch as the
> key determinative factor as far as the inclusion/exclusion of any company
> from the list of comparables is the functionality of an entity, we are of
> the considered opinion that this company has to be considered on the
> parameters of functionality and assessee cannot be prevented from
> challenging the same.
> 86\. Page No. 26 of the 9th annual report 2007-08 of this company can be
> found at page No. 935 of the paper book clearly establishes that this
> company is engaged in a multifarious activities including an end to end
> service provider and offers variety of services. It is involved in product
> evaluation, design & development etc. of the products. Further, it also
> renders BPO services in the field of Human Resources, Life Sciences, Legal
> Services, Supply Chain Management, Sales, and Customer Support etc. Further,
> the financial statements lacks in providing the segmental results as well.
> 39 ITA NO. 5924/Del/2012 (Giesecke & Devrient India Pvt. Ltd.)
> 87\. Further reading of the notes forming part of the accounts vide schedule
> 14 incorporated at page No. 971 of the paper book coupled with entries in
> scheduled 5 at page No. 966 thereof show that there is an exceptional
> circumstances during the year, i.e. the company has written off Goodwill,
> which arose on account of merger of Lanco Global Systems Inc.
> 88\. In view of the vast functional diversity of this company as is evident
> from the "offerings of the LGS service and solution" to be found at page No.
> 935 of its annual report coupled with the fact of the exceptional
> circumstance occurred during the year, we are of the considered opinion that
> this company is not a good comparable with the assessee and on that score it
> has to be excluded from the final set of comparable companies for the
> present year under consideration."
3.2.36 Respectfully following the view taken by the coordinate Bench, we
direct the AO/TPO to exclude this company from the list of comparables.
(ix) Mindtree Limited (Segmental) ["Mindtree"]: 3.2.37 The assessee's next
contention is regarding the exclusion of Mindtree as a comparable. As in the
case of LGS, the Ld. Counsel of the Assessee fairly accepted that the said
comparable was proposed as a comparable by the assessee itself in its TP Study
and placed 40 ITA NO. 5924/Del/2012 (Giesecke & Devrient India Pvt. Ltd.)
reliance on his arguments advanced for the earlier comparable i.e. LGS Global
Ltd.
3.2.38 On merits, the Ld. Counsel submitted that Mindtree is structured into
two business units that focus on software development Research and Development
Services and IT Services. It was further submitted that in addition to these
services, Mindtree also offers IT strategic consulting services, application
development, data warehousing and business intelligence, application
maintenance, package implementation, product architecture, design and
engineering embedded software, technical support, testing and infrastructure
management service. Additionally, it was submitted that even though the
software development segment has been taken by the TPO, the services provided
under the umbrella of software development are in a wide array and can by no
stretch of imagination be compared to a software developer like the assessee.
He further invited our attention to various pages of the Annual report and
submitted that the income declared during the year includes revenue of WOS
[TES PV and Projects Solutions Pvt. Ltd.] which was acquired on 17.12.2007.
Additionally, it was also submitted that the said company earned substantially
from onsite projects and hence, had a different business model altogether. It
was also fairly accepted that though there is no finding of the Ld. DRP on
this comparable but 41 ITA NO. 5924/Del/2012 (Giesecke & Devrient India Pvt.
Ltd.) since all material facts are available on record and as there is no
dispute on application of filters, the issue can be adjudicated. 3.2.39 Per
contra, the Ld. CIT DR strongly opposed the submissions of the assessee and
vehemently argued towards Mindtree's inclusion. Like earlier comparables, she
fairly conceded that since the assessee is not arguing regarding application
of filters, she has no objection if the issue of exclusion of this comparable
is adjudicated by the Bench.
3.2.40 We have heard the rival submissions and considered the relevant
material on record. In view of all material facts being available on record,
we proceed to adjudicate this issue. On merits, we are of the view that the
factual position in the present case is similar to the decision of coordinate
Bench of Tribunal in the case of Nokia Siemens Networks India Pvt. Ltd. vs.
ACIT in ITA No. 333/Del/2013, wherein this comparable was excluded by
observing as follows:
> "91. Assessee sought the exclusion of this company on the ground of
> functional dissimilarity. However Ld. TPO included it on the ground that
> this company is deriving revenue from both software as well as ITES and
> sufficient segmental information is not available in the financial
> statements. Under the head "the business performance", at page No. 1010 of
> the paper book it is revealed that this company is structured into two
> business units 42 ITA NO. 5924/Del/2012 (Giesecke & Devrient India Pvt.
> Ltd.) that focus on software development R&D services, and IT services. It
> also offers IT Strategic Consulting, Application Development, Data
> Warehousing and Business Intelligence, Application Maintenance, Package
> Implementation, Product Architecture, Design and Engineering, Embedded
> Software, Technical Support, Testing and Infrastructure Management Service.
> 92\. Further at page No. 27 of the annual report incorporated at page No.
> 1027 of the paper book it is mentioned that on 17/12/2007 the company
> acquired hundred percent of the outstanding equity shares of TES PV and
> Projects Solutions Private Limited which was subsequently renamed as
> Mindtree Technologies Private Limited at a total consideration of Rs. 259.7
> million equivalent to USD 6.55 million. It is further stated that as a
> consequence of this, the revenues of this company as on 31st March 2008 of
> Rs. 64.80 millions has been included in the above revenues for that year.
> 93\. Needless to say the vast functional dissimilarity coupled with the
> extraordinary event of acquisition of equity shares stated above suggests
> that this company is not a good comparable with the assessee and
> consequently is liable to be excluded from the list of comparables."
3.2.41 Respectfully following the view taken by the coordinate Bench, we
direct the AO/TPO to exclude this company from the list of comparables.
43 ITA NO. 5924/Del/2012 (Giesecke & Devrient India Pvt. Ltd.)
(x) Persistent Systems Pvt. Ltd. ("Persistent"): 3.2.42 The next comparable
being agitated by the assessee before us is Persistent Systems Pvt. Limited.
The Ld. Counsel fairly accepted that Persistent was the Assessee's own
comparable and placed reliance on his arguments advanced in respect of LGS and
Mindtree. 3.2.43 On merits, the Ld. Counsel submitted that Persistent could
not be considered as a comparable since they primarily dealt in product
development and analytical services. To establish the difference in
functionality, he referred to the handouts of the screenshot of website of
Persistent and various pages of the Annual Report. He further submitted that
proper segmental details of this comparable are not available in public domain
and, thus, this company cannot be considered to be a comparable to the
assessee. He further took us through the Annual Report and argued that the
company had undertaken acquisitions during the year, which had bearing on the
financials. It was also submitted that though there is no finding of the DRP
on this comparable but since all material facts are available on record and as
there is no dispute on application of filters, the issue could be adjudicated.
3.2.44 Per contra, the Ld. CIT Departmental Representative placed heavy
reliance on the orders of the lower authorities and prayed that since this
company passes all filters, it is a suitable comparable. In 44 ITA NO.
5924/Del/2012 (Giesecke & Devrient India Pvt. Ltd.) terms of the submission
made by the Ld. Counsel for assessee that he is not disputing the application
of filters, the Ld. CIT Departmental Representative conceded to the
adjudication of this comparable by this Bench.
3.2.45 We have heard the rival submissions and perused the relevant material
on record. We are of the opinion that since all the relevant facts are
available on record and since the assessee is not disputing the application of
filters, there is no reason to remit the matter back to the lower authorities.
We note that on similar set of facts, the coordinate Bench of Tribunal in the
case of Trianz Holdings Pvt. Ltd. vs. DCIT in ITA No. 1568/Bang/2012, has
excluded this comparable by observing as follows:
"17.1.1 This company was selected by the TPO as a comparable.
The assessee objected to the inclusion of this company as a comparable for the
reasons that this company being engaged in software product designing and
analytic services, it is functionally different and further that segmental
results are not available. The TPO rejected the assessee's objections on the
ground that as per the Annual Report for the company for Financial Year
2007-08, it is mainly a software development company and as per the details
furnished in reply to the notice under section 133(6) of the Act, software
development constitutes 96% of its revenues. In this view of the matter, the
Assessing Officer included this company i.e. 45 ITA NO. 5924/Del/2012
(Giesecke & Devrient India Pvt. Ltd.) Persistent Systems Ltd., in the list of
comparables as it qualified the functionality criterion.
17.1.2 Before us, the assessee objected to the inclusion of this company as a
comparable submitting that this company is functionally different and also
that there are several other factors on which this company cannot be taken as
a comparable. In this regard, the learned Authorised Representative submitted
that:
> (i) This company is engaged in software designing services and analytic
> services and therefore it is not purely a software development service
> provider as is the assessee in the case on hand.
> (ii) Page 60 of the Annual Report of the company for F.Y. 2007-08 indicates
> that this company, is predominantly engaged in 'Outsourced Software Product
> Development Services' for independent software vendors and enterprises.
> (iii) Website extracts indicate that this company is in the business of
> product design services.
> (iv) The ITAT, Mumbai Bench in the case of Telecordia Technologies India
> Pvt. Ltd. (supra) while discussing the comparability of another company,
> namely Lucid Software Ltd. had rendered a finding that in the absence of
> segmental information, a company be taken into account for comparability
> analysis. This principle is squarely applicable to the company presently
> under consideration, which is into product development and product design
> services and for which the segmental data is not available.
> The learned Authorised Representative prays that in view of the above, this
> company i.e. Persistent Systems Ltd. be omitted from the list of
> comparables.
17.2 Per contra, the learned Departmental Representative support the action of
the TPO in including this company in the list of comparables.
17.3 We have heard the rival submissions and perused and carefully considered
the material on record. It is seen from the 46 ITA NO. 5924/Del/2012 (Giesecke
& Devrient India Pvt. Ltd.) details on record that this company i.e.
Persistent Systems Ltd., is engaged in product development and product design
services while the assessee is a software development services provider. We
find that, as submitted by the assessee, the segmental details are not given
separately. Therefore, following the principle enunciated in the decision of
the Mumbai Tribunal in the case of Telecordia Technologies India Pvt. Ltd.
(supra) that in the absence of segmental details/information a company cannot
be taken into account for comparability analysis, we hold that this company
i.e. Persistent Systems Ltd. ought to be omitted from the set of comparables
for the year under consideration. It is ordered accordingly."
3.2.46 Respectfully following the view taken by the coordinate Bench, we
direct the AO/TPO to exclude this company from the list of comparables.
(xi) Quintegra Solutions Limited ("Quintegra"): 3.2.47 Quintegra was rejected
by the assessee in its TP Study as not being functionally comparable to the
assessee. The TPO however included the same holding it to be comparable to the
assessee. The Ld. Counsel for the assessee submitted before us that Quintegra
could not be taken as a comparable since the same was functionally different
from the assessee. It was submitted that Quintegra was 47 ITA NO.
5924/Del/2012 (Giesecke & Devrient India Pvt. Ltd.) mainly a KPO and was
engaged in product engineering services, having proprietary software products
and was hence not a pure software developer like the assessee. Additionally,
it was submitted that owing to the lack of segmental data between the products
and services, the same could not be held to be comparable to the assessee. He
also took us through the Annual Report to demonstrate that Quintegra was
making substantial investments in its Research & Development activities and,
as a result, was owning substantial intangibles. He further argued that there
was an acquisition during the year and, hence, Quintegra on this count as well
could not be accepted as a comparable. It was also fairly accepted that though
there is no finding of the Ld. DRP on this comparable but since all the
material facts are available on record and as there is no dispute on
application of filters, the issue could be adjudicated. 3.2.48 In response,
the Ld. CIT Departmental Representative vehemently opposed the submissions of
the assessee's counsel and prayed that since this company passes all filters,
it is a suitable comparable. In terms of the submission made by the Ld.
Counsel for assessee that he is not disputing the application of filters, the
Ld. CIT Departmental Representative, in all fairness, accepted that the Bench
could take a view on the comparability.
                                   48          ITA NO. 5924/Del/2012
                                       (Giesecke & Devrient India Pvt. Ltd.)
    3.2.49    We have considered the arguments of both the parties and
also the material available on record. We are of the opinion that since all
the necessary facts for adjudication of this comparable are available on
record, there is no reason to remit this issue back to the file of the lower
authorities. We are of the view that the factual position in the present
matter is similar with decision of the coordinate bench in Sun Gard Solutions
India Pvt. Ltd. vs. ACIT in ITA No. 1487/Bang/2012, wherein it is held as
follows:
> "12.1 This company was selected as a comparable by the TPO inspite of the
> assessee's objections that this company is functionally different and also
> since there were peculiar economic circumstances in the form of acquisitions
> made during the year. The TPO rejected the assessee's objections, holding
> that this company qualifies all the filters applied. On the issue of
> acquisitions, the TPO rejected the assessee's objections observing that the
> assessee had not adduced any evidence to show that this event had any
> influence on the pricing or the margin earned.
12.2 Before us, the assessee objected to the inclusion of this company in the
list of comparables on the ground that it was functionally different and also
that there were other factors for which this company cannot be considered as a
comparable to the assessee in the case on hand who was a captive software
service provider to its AEs. It is submitted that this company i.e. Quintegra
Solutions Ltd. is engaged in product engineering services and its Annual
Report states that it is engaged in proprietary software products and in
research and development 49 ITA NO. 5924/Del/2012 (Giesecke & Devrient India
Pvt. Ltd.) activities which has resulted in creation of its own IPRs. In
support of its plea for exclusion of this company from the list of
comparables, the learned Authorised Representative placed reliance on the
decision of the co-ordinate bench of this Tribunal in the case of 3DPLM
Software Solutions Ltd. (supra) for Assessment Year 2008-09 where this company
was excluded from the list of comparables on the ground of functional
differences from a captive software service provider.
12.3 Per contra, the learned Departmental Representative supported the order
of the TPO in including this company as a comparable to the assessee.
12.4.1 We have heard the rival contentions and perused and carefully
considered the material on record; including the judicial decision cited and
placed reliance on by the assessee. We find that the co-ordinate bench of this
Tribunal in the case of 3DPLM Software Solutions Ltd. (supra) for Assessment
Year 2008-09 has omitted this company i.e. Quintegra Solutions Ltd. from the
list of comparables since it is into product engineering services; is engaged
in proprietary software products, has substantial R&D activity which has
resulted in creation of IPRs and its own intangible assets thereby making it
functionally different from the assessee in the case on hand is a captive
software service provider; as is the assessee in the case on hand. At
paras18.3.1 to 18.3.3 of its order, the co-ordinate bench has held as under:--
> "18.3.1 We have heard the rival submissions and perused and carefully
> considered the material on record. It is seen from the details brought on
> record that this company i.e. Quintegra Solutions Ltd. is engaged in product
> engineering services and is not purely a software development service 50 ITA
> NO. 5924/Del/2012 (Giesecke & Devrient India Pvt. Ltd.) provider as is the
> assessee in the case on hand. It is also seen that this company is also
> engaged in proprietary software products and has substantial R&D activity
> which has resulted in creation of its IPRs. Having applied for trade mark
> registration of its products, it evidences the fact that this company owns
> intangible assets. The co-ordinate bench of this Tribunal in the case of
> 24/7 Customer.Com Pvt. Ltd. (ITA No.227/Bang/2010 dt.9.11.2012) has held
> that if a company possesses or owns intangibles or IPRs, then it cannot be
> considered as a comparable company to one that does not own intangibles and
> requires to be omitted from the list of comparables, as in the case on hand.
> 18.3.2 We also find from the Annual Report of Quintegra Solutions Ltd. that
> there have been acquisitions made by it in the period under consideration.
> It is settled principle that where extraordinary events have taken place,
> which has an effect on the performance of the company, then that company
> shall be removed from the list of comparables. 18.3.3 Respectfully following
> the decision of the co-ordinate bench of the Tribunal in the case of 24/7
> Customer.Com Pvt. Ltd. (supra), we direct that this company i.e. Quintegra
> Solutions Ltd. be excluded from the list of comparables in the case on hand
> since it is engaged in proprietary software products and owns its own
> intangibles unlike the assessee in the case on hand who is a software
> service provider." 12.4.2 Following the above decision of the co-ordinate
> bench of this Tribunal (supra), we direct the Assessing Officer/TPO to omit
> this company from the list of comparables."
3.2.50 Respectfully following the view taken by the coordinate Bench, we
direct the AO / TPO to exclude this comparable from the list of comparables.
51 ITA NO. 5924/Del/2012 (Giesecke & Devrient India Pvt. Ltd.)
(xii) R System International Limited ("R System"): 3.2.51 R System
International Limited was a comparable chosen by the assessee itself in its TP
Study. The Ld. Counsel for the Assessee relied on the case of laws as referred
in the case of LGS and other comparables, to contend its exclusion even though
this comparable was chosen by the assessee itself in the Transfer Pricing
documentation.
3.2.52 On merits, the Ld. Counsel for the Assessee, whilst taking us through
the various pages of the Annual Report, submitted that R System was mainly
into the business of outsourced product development and customer support
services and from the Notes to Accounts it was argued that sufficient
segmental details are not available. Additionally, it was also submitted that
R Systems was providing BPO services to its customers, which is not akin to
software development and hence could not be functionally comparable to the
profile of the assessee. Further, he took us through pages 18, 23, 32 and 104
of the Annual Report to show how the company had issued an IPO and also made
strategic acquisitions during the impugned year. From the financials he
submitted how R Systems was spending extensively on their R&D activities and
resultantly owned intangibles 52 ITA NO. 5924/Del/2012 (Giesecke & Devrient
India Pvt. Ltd.) as well. It was also fairly accepted that though there is no
finding of the Ld. DRP on this comparable, the same could be adjudicated.
3.2.53 The Ld. CIT Departmental Representative relied on the orders of the
lower authorities and prayed that since this company passes all filters, it is
a suitable comparable. In terms of the submission made by the Ld. Counsel for
Assessee that he is not disputing the application of filters, the Ld. CIT
Departmental Representative had no objection to the adjudication of this
comparable by this Bench.
3.2.54 We have heard the rival submissions and perused the material available
on record. We note that all the relevant facts necessary for adjudication of
this comparable are available on record and, therefore, we do not see any
reason to remit the matter back to the file of the lower authorities. We are
of the view that the factual position in the present case is similar to the
decision of coordinate Bench of Tribunal in the case of Nokia Siemens Networks
India Pvt. Ltd. vs. ACIT in ITA No. 333/Del/2013, wherein this comparable was
excluded by observing as follows:
> "103. Assessee objected the inclusion of this company in the set of
> comparables on the ground that this company was functionally different from
> the assessee. However, this company was selected as a comparable by the TPO
> and the assessee has argued for its exclusion on the ground that it
> functionally dissimilar to that of 53 ITA NO. 5924/Del/2012 (Giesecke &
> Devrient India Pvt. Ltd.) the Assessee as this company is engaged in the
> Outsourced Product Development and Customer Support Services. Further, it
> also offers low end BPO Services. Page No. 9 of the annual report of this
> company establishes this fact.
> 104\. Having regard to the information furnished in the annual report of
> this company vide page numbers 1356, 1362, 1366, 1371, 1378 and 1380 of the
> paper book, we are convinced that that this company is not a pure software
> service provider but is engaged in development and sale of products and on
> the ground excludable from the final set of comparable companies for
> benchmarking international transaction related to software segment."
3.2.55 Respectfully following the view taken by the coordinate Bench, we
direct the AO/TPO to exclude this company from the list of comparables.
(xiii) Softsol India Limited ("Softsol"):
3.2.56 The next comparable being agitated before us is Softsol India Ltd. The
said comparable was rejected by the assessee in its Transfer Pricing Study on
the ground that it failed the RPT filter. The TPO however rejected the filter
applied by the Assessee and applied the filter of RPT< 25% as opposed to
RPT<15% as applied by the assessee. Hence, the TPO held Softsol of being a fit
comparable and added the same to the final list. Before us, the Ld. Counsel
for the 54 ITA NO. 5924/Del/2012 (Giesecke & Devrient India Pvt. Ltd.)
assessee submitted that Softsol was not functionally comparable to the FAR
profile of the assessee since the same is in the business of providing end to
end services. Referring the screenshot of website (handout) of Softsol, he
argued that the company was in the business of manufacturing wide range of
software products, software development and training services. He also took us
through the Annual Report of the company wherein it was mentioned that they
deal in software products and from the notes to accounts it was shown that the
company does not maintain proper segmentals. Thereafter, the Ld. Counsel took
us though the financials and it was submitted that the company develops
intangibles and also that their revenue recognition model was different from
that of the assessee. Additionally, without prejudice to the above arguments,
the Ld. Counsel submitted that the filter as adopted by the TPO of RPT<25% was
not a valid filter and for the same the assessee placed reliance on the
Bengaluru Bench's decision in the case of LSI Technologies India Pvt. Ltd. vs.
ITO in ITA No. 1380/Bang/2010, order dated 13.05.2016. As in the case of some
of the earlier comparables being contested, it was fairly pointed out that
though there is no finding by the Ld. DRP on this comparable, the Bench could
adjudicate the issue all the same. Further, the Ld. Counsel for the Assessee
also submitted 55 ITA NO. 5924/Del/2012 (Giesecke & Devrient India Pvt. Ltd.)
that the arguments regarding application of filters may be treated as not
pressed and prayed for adjudication of this comparable. 3.2.57 The Ld. CIT
Departmental Representative vehemently argued for the comparable's inclusion
and took support from the TPO's order. In terms of the submission made by the
Ld. Counsel for assessee that he is not disputing the application of filters,
the Ld. CIT Departmental Representative had no objection to the adjudication
of this comparable by the Bench.
3.2.58 We have heard the rival submissions and also perused the relevant
material on record. We are of the opinion that since all the relevant facts
necessary for adjudication of this comparable are available on record we can
proceed to adjudicate this comparable. We are of the view that the factual
position in the present case is similar to the decision of the coordinate
Bench of Tribunal in the case of Nokia Siemens Networks India Pvt. Ltd. vs.
ACIT in ITA No. 333/Del/2013, wherein this comparable was retained by
observing as follows:
> 105\. The Assessee objected this company from the list of comparable while
> preparing its TP study on the ground of related party transactions and also
> basing on the statement in the annual report to the effect that this company
> is a provider of e-commerce, network technology, Internet infrastructure and
> other special 56 ITA NO. 5924/Del/2012 (Giesecke & Devrient India Pvt. Ltd.)
> technology areas and has diverse client base ranging from large customers to
> small high-tech start-up companies.
> 106\. Ld. TPO observed that the company at present is in various areas of
> software development industry and what is stated above in the annual report
> is a futuristic statement. Ld. TPO referred to para 2.1 to be found on page
> No. 1533 of the paper book to the effect that no inventory is held, since
> the company is engaged in developing software and providing IT solutions.
> This fact evidences that this company is confined only to software
> development and not yet into net work or internet infrastructure. Even the
> Profit and Loss Account to be found at page No. 1536 also shows that other
> than the other income, the company is deriving income only from software
> exports. Even the Note 15 of the Notes on Account reads that there are no
> separate reportable segments. We do not find any material from the record
> that this company has actually been engaged in the activities like a)
> business of Software Products b) Software Development c) Training Services;
> and d) manufacture of vide range of products or that it provides end to end
> business solutions.
> 107\. We therefore find it difficult that this company is functionally
> different from the assessee or that it is not a good comparable for want of
> any segmental information or related party information. We, therefore, find
> that this company has to be retained as a good comparable in the final list
> of comparables."
3.2.59 Respectfully following the view taken by the coordinate Bench, we
reject the arguments of the assessee and direct the AO/TPO to include this
company in the final list of comparables.
57 ITA NO. 5924/Del/2012 (Giesecke & Devrient India Pvt. Ltd.)
(xiv) Tata Elxsi Limited ("Tata Elxsi"):
3.2.60 The next comparable being agitated before us is Tata Elxsi Limited. The
said comparable was chosen by the assessee itself in its TP Study. The Ld.
Counsel for the assessee relied on the case laws as relied upon while arguing
for exclusion of LGS and some other comparables, to contend exclusion of Tata
Elxsi even though the comparable was chosen by the assessee itself in its TP
Study. 3.2.61 On merits, the Ld. Counsel submitted that the said company could
not be considered as a comparable since the company, along with providing
software development, also dealt in product design services, innovation design
engineering, visual computing and systems integration and support. The Ld.
Counsel drew our attention to the 'Notes to accounts' of the Annual Report to
argue that the company, although, dealt with wide array of services, it did
not maintain proper segmentals, and, hence, the same could not be retained as
a comparable. Like some of the earlier comparables, it was also fairly
accepted that though there is no finding of the Ld. DRP on this comparable but
in view of all the material facts being available on record and as there being
no dispute on application of filters, adjudication on this comparable be done.
                                    58          ITA NO. 5924/Del/2012
                                        (Giesecke & Devrient India Pvt. Ltd.)
    3.2.62    The Ld. CIT Departmental Representative placed reliance
on the orders of the Ld. DRP and TPO. The Ld. CIT DR had no objection to the
adjudication of this comparable by the Bench. 3.2.63 We have heard the rival
submissions of the parties and also perused the relevant material on record.
We are of the opinion that since all the necessary facts for adjudication of
this comparable are available on record, we can adjudicate this issue. We are
of the view that the factual position in the present matter is similar with
decision of the coordinate bench in Sun Gard Solutions India Pvt. Ltd. v ACIT
in ITA No. 1487/Bang/2012, wherein it is held as follows:
> "13.1 This company was selected as a comparable by the TPO overruling the
> objections of the assessee to the inclusion of this company on several
> counts like functional dis-similarity, having significant R&D activity,
> brand value, size, etc. 13.2 Before us, the learned Authorised
> Representative contended that this company i.e. Tata Elxsi Ltd., is not
> functionally comparable to the assessee as it performs a variety of
> functions under software development services segment, namely product
> design, innovation design engineering, visual computing labs etc. as per the
> details reflected in its Annual Report; whereas the assessee in the case on
> hand is a captive software service provider. In support of its plea for
> excluding this company from the limit of comparables, the learned Authorised
> Representative placed reliance on the decision of the co-ordinate bench of
> this Tribunal in the case of 3DPLM Software Solutions Ltd. (supra) for 59
> ITA NO. 5924/Del/2012 (Giesecke & Devrient India Pvt. Ltd.) Assessment Year
> 2008-09, wherein this company was omitted from the list of comparables on
> grounds of being functionally different and dis-similar to a captive
> software service provider.
13.3 Per contra, the learned Departmental Representative supported the orders
of the TPO in including this company as a comparable to the assessee.
13.4.1 We have heard the rival contentions and perused and carefully
considered the material on record; including the judicial decision cited by
the assessee. We find that the co-ordinate bench of this Tribunal in the case
of 3DPLM Software Solutions Ltd. (supra) for Assessment Year 2008-09 has held
that this company is to be omitted from the set of comparables as it is
functionally different and dis-similar from a captive software service
provider, as is the assessee in the case on hand. At paras 13.4.1 and 13.4.2
of its order, the co-ordinate bench has held as under:--
> '13.4.1 We have heard both parties and carefully perused and considered the
> material on record. From the details on record, we find that this company is
> predominantly engaged in product designing services and not purely software
> development services. The details in the Annual Report show that the segment
> "software development services" relates to design services and are not
> similar to software development services performed by the assessee.
> 13.4.2 The Hon'ble Mumbai Tribunal in the case of Telecordia Technologies
> India Pvt. Ltd. v. ACIT (ITA No.7821/Mum/2011) has held that Tata Elxsi Ltd.
> is not a software development service provider and therefore it is not
> functionally comparable. In this context the relevant portion of this order
> is extracted and reproduced below:-
> "... Tata Elxsi is engaged in development of niche product and development
> services which is entirely 60 ITA NO. 5924/Del/2012 (Giesecke & Devrient
> India Pvt. Ltd.) different from the assessee company. We agree with the
> contention of the learned Authorised Representative that the nature of
> product developed and services provided by this company are different from
> the assessee as have been narrated in para 6.6 above. Even the segmental
> details for revenue sales have not been provided by the TPO so as to
> consider it as a comparable party for comparing the profit ratio from
> product and services. Thus, on these facts, we are unable to treat this
> company as fit for comparability analysis for determining the arm's length
> price for the assessee, hence, should be excluded from the list of
> comparable portion."
> As can be seen from the extracts of the Annual Report of this company
> produced before us, the facts pertaining to Tata Elxsi have not changed from
> Assessment Year 2007-08 to Assessment Year 2008-09. We, therefore, hold that
> this company is not to be considered for inclusion in the set of comparables
> in the case on hand. It is ordered accordingly.' 13.4.2 Following the above
> decision of the co-ordinate bench of this Tribunal (supra), we direct the
> Assessing Officer/TPO to exclude this company from the list of comparables
> to the assessee."
3.2.64 Respectfully following the view taken by the coordinate Bench, we
direct the AO / TPO to exclude this company from the list of comparables.
(xv) Thirdware Solution Limited ("Thirdware"): 3.2.65 The next comparable
agitated before us is Thirdware Solution Limited. The Ld. Counsel for the
assessee has objected to the 61 ITA NO. 5924/Del/2012 (Giesecke & Devrient
India Pvt. Ltd.) inclusion of this company as a comparable on the ground that
apart from software development services, it is in the business of product
development; trading in software and giving licenses for the use of software.
He also pointed out from the Annual Report that this company has not provided
any separate segmental profit and loss account for software development
services and product development services. He further argued that the TPO has
wrongly computed the margin of this comparable and has taken entity level
sales figure whilst calculating the operating margin and not the sales of the
software segment. He argued that no details are given in the financials in
respect of nature of transaction with subsidiaries. It was also fairly
accepted that though there is no finding of the Ld. DRP on this comparable but
in view of all the material facts being available on record and there being no
dispute on application of filters, request was made to adjudicate this
comparable.
3.2.66 The Learned CIT Departmental Representative, on the other hand,
supported the orders of the authorities below. She also had no objection to
the adjudication of this comparable by the Bench. 3.2.67 We have heard the
rival submissions of the parties and also perused the relevant material on
record. We are of the opinion that all necessary facts for adjudication of
this comparable being available on record, we can adjudicate this issue. We
are of the view that the 62 ITA NO. 5924/Del/2012 (Giesecke & Devrient India
Pvt. Ltd.) factual position in the present matter is similar with decision of
coordinate bench in Sun Gard Solutions India Pvt. Ltd. v ACIT inITA No.
1487/Bang/2012, wherein it is held as follows:
> "14.1 This company was selected as a comparable by the TPO inspite of the
> assessee's objections to its inclusion on the ground that its turnover was
> in excess of Rs.500 Crores. Before us, the assessee has objected to the
> inclusion of this company as a comparable on the ground that apart from
> software development services, it is in the business of product development;
> trading in software and giving licenses for the use of software. The learned
> Authorised Representative also pointed out from the Annual Report that this
> company has not provided any separate segmental profit and loss account for
> software development services and product development services. In support
> of its plea for exclusion of this company from the list of comparables, the
> learned Authorised Representative placed reliance on the decision of the co-
> ordinate bench of this Tribunal in the case of 3DPLM Software Solutions Ltd.
> (supra) for Assessment Year 2008-09, wherein it was held to be not
> comparable to a purely software development service provider.
> 14.2 Per contra, the learned Departmental Representative supported the order
> of the TPO in including this company in the list of comparables to the
> assessee.
> 14.3.1 We have heard both parties and perused and carefully considered the
> material on record; including the judicial decision relied on by the
> assessee. We find that the co-ordinate bench of this Tribunal in the case of
> 3DPLM Software Solutions Ltd. (supra) 63 ITA NO. 5924/Del/2012 (Giesecke &
> Devrient India Pvt. Ltd.) for Assessment Year 2008-09 has directed exclusion
> of this company from the list of comparables to a pure software service
> provider, like the assessee in the case on hand, as it is functionally
> different; being engaged in product development and earns revenue from sale
> of licenses and subscription, etc. holding as under at para 15.3 of its
> order:--
> "15.3 We have heard the rival submissions and perused and carefully
> considered the material on record. It is seen from the material on record
> that the company is engaged in product development and earns revenue from
> sale of licenses and subscription. However, the segmental profit and loss
> accounts for software development services and product development are not
> given separately. Further, as pointed out by the learned Authorised
> Representative, the Pune Bench of the Tribunal in the case of E-Gain
> Communications Pvt. Ltd. (supra) has directed that since the income of this
> company includes income from sale of licenses, it ought to be rejected as a
> comparable for software development services. In the case on hand, the
> assessee is rendering software development services. In this factual view of
> the matter and following the afore cited decision of the Pune Tribunal
> (supra), we direct that this company be omitted from the list of comparables
> for the period under consideration in the case on hand."
> 14.3.2 Following the above decision of the co-ordinate bench (supra), we
> direct the Assessing Officer/TPO to exclude this company from the list of
> comparables."
3.2.68 Respectfully following the view taken by the coordinate Bench, we
direct the AO / TPO to exclude this company from the list of comparables.
64 ITA NO. 5924/Del/2012 (Giesecke & Devrient India Pvt. Ltd.) (xvi) Wipro
Limited (Segmental) ["Wipro"]:
3.2.69 The last comparable being agitated for exclusion before us is Wipro
Limited. The said comparable was introduced by the TPO by holding that it
satisfies all filters. Before us the Ld. Counsel for the Assessee submitted
that the said company cannot be held to be comparable to the Assesse since the
same is functionally different. It was submitted that although the TPO has
taken the software segment, Wipro is engaged in several operations within the
said segment itself and additionally deals in software products too. The Ld.
Counsel took us through various pages of the Annual Report to substantiate the
above argument and whilst referring to the 'Notes to Accounts' of the
financials it was submitted that the said company did not maintain proper
segmentals bifurcating the revenues/expenses between the services and products
within the software segment. Additionally, by referring to the financials, it
was submitted that the said company owned intangibles and whilst taking us
through various pages it was also submitted that the said company had
undertaken various acquisitions during the relevant assessment year.
3.2.70 The Learned CIT Departmental Representative, on the other hand,
supported the orders of the authorities below.
                                    65          ITA NO. 5924/Del/2012
                                        (Giesecke & Devrient India Pvt. Ltd.)
    3.2.71    We have heard the rival submissions of the parties and also
perused the relevant material on record. We are of the view that the factual
position in the present matter is similar with decision of the coordinate
bench in Sun Gard Solutions India Pvt. Ltd. vs. ACIT in ITA No.
1487/Bang/2012, wherein it is held as follows:
> 15.1 This company was selected as a comparable by the TPO inspite of the
> objections by the assessee to its inclusion in the list of comparables on
> several grounds like functional dis- similarity, brand value, size, turnover
> etc. 15.2 Before us, the learned Authorised Representative of the assessee
> contended that this company namely, Wipro Ltd., is not functionally
> comparable to the assessee as it owns significant intangibles in the nature
> of customer related intangibles and technology related intangibles; has huge
> brand value, is a market leader in size and turnover which render it not
> functionally comparable to a captive provider of software development
> services. In support of its plea for exclusion of this company from the list
> of comparables, the learned Authorised Representative of the assessee placed
> reliance on the decision of the co-ordinate bench in the case of 3DPLM
> Software Solutions Ltd. (supra) for Assessment Year 2008-09, wherein this
> company was held to be functionally different and dis-similar and not
> comparable to a captive provider of software development services.
                                   66          ITA NO. 5924/Del/2012
                                       (Giesecke & Devrient India Pvt. Ltd.)
    15.3    Per   contra,   the   learned      Departmental         Representative
> supported the order of the TPO in including this company in the list of
> comparables to the assessee.
15.4.1 We have heard both parties and perused and carefully considered the
material on record. We find that the co-ordinate bench of this Tribunal in the
case of 3DPLM Software Solutions Ltd. (supra) for Assessment Year 2008-09 has
held that this company is to be excluded from the list of comparables as it is
functionally different and dis-similar from a captive software development
service provider, as is in the case on hand. At para 12.4.1 and 12.4.2 of its
order the co-ordinate bench in its order (supra) has held as under:--
> "12.4.1 We have heard both parties and carefully perused and considered the
> material on record. We find merit in the contentions of the assessee for
> exclusion of this company from the set of comparables. It is seen that this
> company is engaged both in software development and product development
> services. There is no information on the segmental bifurcation of revenue
> from sale of product and software services. The TPO appears to have adopted
> this company as a comparable without demonstrating how the company satisfies
> the software development sales 75% of the total revenue filter adopted by
> him. Another major flaw in the comparability analysis carried out by the TPO
> is that he adopted comparison of the consolidated financial statements of
> Wipro with the stand alone financials of the assessee; which is not an
> appropriate comparison. 12.4.2 We also find that this company owns
> intellectual property in the form of registered patents and several pending
> applications for grant of patents. In this regard, the co-ordinate bench of
> this Tribunal in the case of 24/7 Customer.Com Pvt. Ltd. (ITA
> No.227/Bang/2010) has held 67 ITA NO. 5924/Del/2012 (Giesecke & Devrient
> India Pvt. Ltd.) that a company owning intangibles cannot be compared to a
> low risk captive service provider who does not own any such intangible and
> hence does not have an additional advantage in the market. As the assessee
> in the case on hand does not own any intangibles, following the aforesaid
> decision of the co-ordinate bench of the Tribunal i.e. 24/7 Customer.Com
> Pvt. Ltd. (supra), we hold that this company cannot be considered as a
> comparable to the assessee. We, therefore, direct the Assessing Officer/TPO
> to omit this company from the set of comparable companies in the case on
> hand for the year under consideration."
> 15.4.2 Following the above decision of the co-ordinate bench (supra), we
> direct the Assessing Officer/TPO to omit this company from the list of
> comparables."
3.2.72 Respectfully following the view taken by the coordinate Bench, we
direct the AO/TPO to exclude this company from the list of comparables.
3.3.0 Now, we will deal with comparables which the assessee is agitating for
inclusion in the final set of comparables selected by the TPO / DRP.
SIP Technologies and Exports Limited ("SIP Technologies") 3.3.1 The first
inclusion being prayed by the Assessee is of SIP Technologies. The said
comparable was rejected by the TPO whilst holding that the said company has
declining revenue. Before us, the 68 ITA NO. 5924/Del/2012 (Giesecke &
Devrient India Pvt. Ltd.) Ld. Counsel for the Assessee submitted that
diminishing revenue has to be seen for three consecutive years and since this
company does not have losses for three consecutive years, the said comparable
ought to be included. It was further submitted that the TPO himself has not
disputed the fact that SIP Technologies is functionally comparable to the
Assessee and the TPO has only rejected the said comparable on the ground that
the said company has diminishing revenue. It was further submitted that
turnover cannot be a criteria for inclusion or exclusion of a comparable.
3.3.2 On specific query by the Bench, the Ld. CIT Departmental Representative
fairly accepted that in principle the criteria of checking the financials of
three year consecutive years has consistently been followed by both the
Department as well as the assessees over the years. On merits she relied on
the orders of the lower authorities. 3.3.3 We have heard the rival submissions
of the parties and also perused the relevant material on record. We are of the
view that the factual position in the present case is similar to the decision
of coordinate Bench of Tribunal in the case of Nokia Siemens Networks India
Pvt. Ltd. vs. ACIT in ITA No. 333/Del/2013, wherein this comparable was
included by observing as follows:
> "116. This company selected by the assessee was rejected by the TPO on the
> ground of diminishing revenues. Ld. DRP also held 69 ITA NO. 5924/Del/2012
> (Giesecke & Devrient India Pvt. Ltd.) that the companies having diminishing
> revenues/persistent losses for the previous 3 years were exceptions and
> refused to interfere with the findings of the Ld. TPO.
117\. It is submitted by the Ld. AR that this company was accepted as
functionally comparable to the assessee by the Department as well as by a
Coordinate Bench of this Tribunal in assessee's own case for the previous
assessment year of 2007 -
08\. It is argued by the Ld. AR that the diminishing revenue filter is invalid
for the simple reason that revenue is not a true indicator of the performance
of company as during its business life cycle owing to changing economic
conditions, a company could have variation in its revenue pattern over a
period of time. For example a company with increasing revenues over a period
of time does not necessarily reflect that it is performing better as the
corresponding increase in expenses could be higher than revenues and the
company might still incur losses. Similarly, a company with diminishing
revenues over a period of time need not imply that the performance of the
company is deteriorating as it might still have good profit margin on account
of cost efficiency i.e. minimizing/ reducing its expenses. Therefore, the net
operating margin of the company with increasing revenues over a period of time
is a better indicator of the performance of the company. Thus it is submitted
that excluding companies having persistent losses is a more appropriate filter
and on this basis, assessee himself has excluded companies which have shown
persistent losses. It is further submitted by the Ld. AR that the Ld. DRP as
well as TPO has taken a stand that such diminishing revenue goes against the
industry trend, that there can be nothing farther from the truth as variance
in profitability is the very essence of business and which 70 ITA NO.
5924/Del/2012 (Giesecke & Devrient India Pvt. Ltd.) more than demonstrates the
arm's length character prevalent in a free market economy, and it would defy
commercial logic and rationale, and economic business cycle if every company
were to only make profits and increase profits year after year. Low profits in
some years and losses in some years is a business reality. If one were to go
with the logic assumed by the learned TPO, every company should have
increasing revenues and the company which has lower profits or returns losses
should discontinue business operations because it would not represent an arm's
length nature of business.
118\. Ld. AR submits that this position has now been accepted by the Delhi
High Court and various benches of this Tribunal. In a recent order passed by
the coordinate bench in case of Aithent Technologies (P.) Ltd. vs. DCIT [2016]
74 taxmann.com 214 (Delhi- Trib.) on the adoption of diminishing revenue
filter it has been held as under:-
> "14.3 A careful perusal of the pattern of profit/loss earned by the assesse
> as per its audited accounts divulges that as against the current year's
> profit of Rs. 62.39 lac, the earlier years' profit was Rs. 92.74 lac. This
> manifests that the profit for this year has diminished from the earlier
> year. When we consider the figures of losses for the financial years 2005-06
> and earlier years, it comes to light that there were losses right from
> financial year 2002-03 up to 2005-06. On an overview of the above extracted
> Table, it can be seen that the assessee's profit is not steady, but, has
> diminished during the instant year from the preceding year. In such a
> situation, if we exclude the companies having diminishing profits, it would
> mean that the companies whose profit pattern is also similar to that of the
> assesse would face the axe. Doing so would mean excluding the comparable
> companies from the final tally, which is not appropriate.
> 71 ITA NO. 5924/Del/2012 (Giesecke & Devrient India Pvt. Ltd.) However, the
> companies having persistent losses, obviously, cannot be compared with the
> assessee because it has earned positive income not only in this year, but,
> in the preceding year as well. We, therefore, hold that the companies having
> diminishing revenue should not be excluded, but, only the companies having
> persistent losses should be expelled from the final tally of comparables."
119\. While following the decision of the Hon'ble Delhi High Court in the case
of Chryscapital Investment Advisors (India) (P.) Ltd. this view has further
been affirmed by another co-ordinate bench of this ITAT in case of Vestergaard
Asia (P.) Ltd. vs. DCIT [2017] 88 taxmann.com 313 (Delhi-Trib.) wherein the
court has observed that:-
> "28. This comparable sought to be included by the assessee was rejected by
> the TPO on the ground that its revenue is continuously diminishing over the
> years.
> .....................
> 30\. The Ld. DR on the other hand argued that the revenue of the company has
> been reducing over a number of years. This fact indicates that the company
> is undergoing abnormal/exceptional circumstances and therefore its margins
> cannot be taken as reflecting those of the industry. He vehemently argued
> that this company should be excluded from the comparability analysis.
> .............
> 33\. As regards the argument of diminishing revenue, we note that the
> reduction of revenue from FY 2009-10 (3.99 crore) to FY 2010-11 (3.98 crore)
> is approximately Rs. 1 lac. In our view, such a minor difference in revenue
> cannot be taken to mean that the company is undergoing abnormal
> circumstances and should be rejected. Even otherwise, if the functional
> similarity of the company with the assessee is accepted, the same should not
> be rejected simply because of difference in revenue. Our view is supported
> by the decision of the Hon'ble Delhi High Court in the case of Chryscapital
> 72 ITA NO. 5924/Del/2012 (Giesecke & Devrient India Pvt. Ltd.) Investment
> Advisors (India) (P.) Ltd. (supra), in which it was observed:
> "'33. Such being the case, it is clear that exclusion of some companies
> whose functions are broadly similar and whose profile - in respect of the
> activity in question can be viewed independently from other activities
> cannot be subject to a per se standard of loss making company or an
> "abnormal" profit making concern or huge or "mega" turnover company.
> As explained earlier, Rule 1OB (2) guides the six methods outlined in
> clauses (a) to (f) of Rule 10B (1), - while judging comparability. Rule 10B
> (3) on the other hand indicates the approach to be adopted where differences
> and dissimilarities are apparent. Therefore, the mere circumstance of a
> company - otherwise conforming to the stipulations in Rule 10B (2) in all
> details, presenting a peculiar feature - such as a huge profit or a huge
> turnover, ipso facto does not lead to its exclusion. The TPO, first, has to
> be satisfied that such differences do not "materially affect the price...or
> cost"; secondly, an attempt to make reasonable adjustment to eliminate the
> material effect of such differences has to be made."
> In light of the above, we direct the TPO to include this company in the list
> of comparables."
> 120\. With regards to Revenue's stand that SIP technologies need to be
> rejected on the ground that it suffered losses, it is submitted on behalf of
> the assessee that for the filter of persistent losses to come into play it
> should be shown that the comparable under dispute has incurred losses for
> three preceding years including the assessment year in question. Reliance in
> this regard is placed on the Pune ITAT order in case of Bobst India (P.)
> Ltd. vs. DCIT [2015] 63 taxmann.com (Pune-Trib.) wherein the bench observed
> that a company can be rejected as persistent loss maker only if it has
> incurred losses for more than 3 years. In the present case in the immediate
> preceding year the comparable company has showed operating profit of 13.90%,
> thus, as the company has not 73 ITA NO. 5924/Del/2012 (Giesecke & Devrient
> India Pvt. Ltd.) suffered losses and its functionality has not been
> challenged by the TPO, it becomes clear that there is no valid ground to
> exclude this company as comparable.
> 121\. On a careful consideration of the factual and legal position, we find
> that this company is a valid comparable to the assessee and, therefore, has
> to be included in the final set of comparables."
3.3.4 Respectfully following the view taken by the coordinate Bench, we direct
the AO / TPO to include this company in the list of comparables.
(ii) PSI Data System Ltd. ("PSI Data"):
3.3.5 The next comparable being agitated for inclusion by the Assessee is PSI
Data which the Ld. Counsel mentioned was submitted as a comparable in its TP
Study and been accepted by the TPO as well, as evidenced from page 44 of the
TPO's order, however the same has not been inadvertently been added in the
final list of comparables.
3.3.6 The Ld. CIT Departmental Representative fairly accepted that if this
company passes all filters and has been accepted by the TPO itself, then this
comparable may be included. 3.3.7 We have heard the rival submissions of the
parties and also perused the relevant material on record. In view of the
acceptance 74 ITA NO. 5924/Del/2012 (Giesecke & Devrient India Pvt. Ltd.)
given by the Ld. CIT Departmental Representative, we direct the AO/ TPO to
include this company in the list of comparables. 3.4.0 As regards ground Nos.
1.4 and 1.5, the Ld. Counsel for the assessee submitted that while computing
the profit margin of the comparables, the TPO has incorrectly considered
certain income/ expenses as operating/non-operating and prayed that necessary
directions may be passed to re-compute the margin/s of comparable/s. Further,
he prayed that risk adjustment may be allowed in terms of Rule 10B (1)(e) read
with Rule 10B(2)/(3) of the Rules.
3.4.1 On the issue of claim for risk adjustment, the Ld. Counsel submitted
that the claim had been made both before the TPO as well as the Ld. DRP.
However, both have denied the assessee's claim. The Ld. Counsel further
submitted that while estimating the return for uncontrolled company, there is
a need to give an appropriate adjustment pertaining to market/systematic risk
faced. Uncontrolled comparable companies operate under uncontrolled conditions
bearing certain risks during the course of its operations. Therefore, such
comparable uncontrolled companies earn a risk premium which is not earned by a
captive software development provider similar to the assessee which is a risk
averse and, therefore, 75 ITA NO. 5924/Del/2012 (Giesecke & Devrient India
Pvt. Ltd.) the profits of the captive unit would be less than risk taking
companies and hence, an adjustment in this regard is required. He placed
reliance on the decision of the coordinate Bench in Motorola Solutions India
(P.) Ltd's case, Intellinet Technologies India (P.) Ltd. vs. ITO reported in
[2012] 22 taxmann.com 28/53 SOT 92 (Bang.) (URO) and Bearing Point Business
Consulting (P.) Ltd. vs. Dy. CIT reported in [2013] 33 taxmann.com 92/57 SOT
244 (Bang. - Trib.) in support of assessee's claim for risk adjustment. 3.4.2
The Learned CIT Departmental Representative, on the other hand, supported the
orders of the authorities below and vehemently argued that since
contemporaneous data was not produced by the assessee to substantiate its
claim of risk adjustment the claim has been correctly rejected.
3.4.3 We have considered the submissions of the parties and also perused the
relevant material on record. On overall factual matrix of the issues and as
last and final opportunity and in the interest of justice, it is our
considered opinion that the issues raised in Ground Nos. 1.4 and 1.5 require
reconsideration and re-examination and are thus restored to the file of AO/TPO
for passing appropriate orders in accordance with law after giving proper
opportunity to the assessee. It is ordered accordingly.
                                      76          ITA NO. 5924/Del/2012
                                          (Giesecke & Devrient India Pvt. Ltd.)
    3.5.0        Now we will deal with grounds relating to SIM Card
Assembly Segment (Ground Nos. 2 to 2.8 and additional ground/s No. 2.9 and
2.10).
3.5.1 Before us the Ld. Counsel for the assessee has submitted that his
pleadings can be summarized on the following legal points:
> a. Transfer Pricing adjustment should be restricted to the value of
> international transaction (i.e. excluding domestic transaction with
> unrelated parties) b. Capacity Adjustment may be granted c. Working Capital
> Adjustment may be granted d. As an alternative argument, it is submitted
> that since the Assessee has also undertaken domestic transactions in SIM
> Card Assembly Segment and an internal comparable in that regard is
> available, necessary directions may be passed to use internal comparable to
> determine the arm's length price.
> e. Lastly, as an alternative argument, it is submitted that if reliable data
> is not available to determine arm's length price of an international
> transaction by taking the Indian entity as the tested party, then the
> foreign Associated Enterprise ('AE') may be taken as the tested party.
                                    77          ITA NO. 5924/Del/2012
                                        (Giesecke & Devrient India Pvt. Ltd.)
    3.5.2      The additional grounds (Ground Nos. 2.9 and 2.10) filed in
> the present appeal deal with taking foreign AE as the tested party.
Further, contemporaneous data and transfer pricing analysis by taking foreign
AE as the tested party have been produced before us vide a separate
application to file additional evidence. 3.5.3 It is submitted before us that
if the legal submissions regarding the first three arguments are accepted then
there would be no necessity to adjudicate the alternative arguments. 3.5.4 The
first issue raised by the Ld. Counsel for the assessee is regarding
restricting the transfer pricing adjustment to the value of the international
transaction. Our attention was drawn to Pages 32, 46, 57 and 288 of the Paper
book to show that during the relevant period the total operating expenses of
Rs. 63,79,13,808/- were incurred on the SIM Card Segment. Out of the total
operating expenses, a sum of Rs. 41,04,24,653/- related to raw materials,
stores and spares consumes and out of this a sum of Rs. 7,07,33,702/-
pertained to indigenous purchase (domestic transaction). It was argued before
us that the TPO, while determining the arm's length price of this transaction,
has erroneously taken the total operating expenses at the entity level, which
is not permissible. Reliance was placed on the judgment of the Hon'ble Bombay
High Court in the case of CIT vs. Alstom Projects India Ltd. reported in 78
ITA NO. 5924/Del/2012 (Giesecke & Devrient India Pvt. Ltd.) [2017] 394 ITR 141
(Bombay) and of the Hon'ble Delhi High Court in the case of CIT v. Keihin
Panalfa Ltd. (ITA No.11 of 2015), judgment dated 09.09.2015. He further
pointed out that the Ld. Dispute Resolution Panel has decided this issue in
favour of Assessee in Assessment Year 2014-15 whilst directing the TPO to
allow proportionate adjustment and restricting the transfer pricing adjustment
to related party international transactions. 3.5.5 The Ld. CIT Departmental
Representative placed heavy reliance on the order of the TPO / DRP.
3.5.6 We have heard the rival submissions of the parties and perused the
relevant material on record. We notice that the TPO, while benchmarking this
transaction (SIM Card Assembly Segment), has taken the value of transaction at
entity level rather than restricting the exercise of benchmarking to the value
of international transaction between the Associated Enterprises and also
included the value of indigenous purchases from the local parties. We are of
the considered opinion that the mandate of Chapter X of the Act is very clear
and only the international transactions between related parties are to be
considered for the purposes of benchmarking. Our view is further fortified by
the decision of Hon'ble Bombay High Court in CIT vs. Alstom Projects India Ltd
reported in [2017] 394 ITR 141 (Bombay), wherein it is held as follows :
79 ITA NO. 5924/Del/2012 (Giesecke & Devrient India Pvt. Ltd.) "2. Mr. P.C.
Chhotaray, learned Counsel for the Appellant urges the following question of
law for our consideration:--
> "Whether, on the facts and in the circumstances of the case and in law, the
> Tribunal was justified in holding that the TPO has applied the transfer
> pricing adjustment to all transactions, i.e. entity level in the absence of
> actual segmental accounts being maintained on regular basis by the assessee
> ?"
3\. The impugned order of the Tribunal upheld the Respondent- assessee's
contention that the transfer pricing adjustment has to be made only in respect
of transaction entered into by the Respondent-assessee with its Associated
Enterprises.
4\. The grievance of the Revenue is that in the absence of segmental accounts
being maintained by the Respondent- assessee, transfer pricing adjustment had
to be done at entity level. We specifically asked Mr. Chhotaray, learned
Counsel for the appellant whether any such submission was advanced by the
Revenue before the Tribunal. At this, he fairly states that no such submission
was made on behalf of the Revenue. Thus we fail to understand how the present
question arises from the impugned order of the Tribunal.
5\. Be that as it may, Mr. Chhotaray, learned Counsel for the Revenue submits
that identical question as raised herein had been admitted by this Court and
in particular invited our attention to the following orders passed at the
stage of admission:--
> (a) CIT vs. Super Diamonds, Income Tax Appeal No. 298 of 2013; (Order dated
> 16 February 2015); and
> (b) CIT v. Global Jewellery (P.) Ltd. Income Tax Appeal No.1395 of 2013.
> (Order dated 16 April 2015) 80 ITA NO. 5924/Del/2012 (Giesecke & Devrient
> India Pvt. Ltd.)
6\. In both the above appeals we find that the question admitted was with
regard to transfer pricing adjustment being done at the entity level and not
restricted only to the transactions with Associated Enterprises. However, both
the appeals were admitted without the Court having had benefit of submissions
on behalf of the Respondent-assessee.
7\. Thereafter this Court consequent to the above two orders had occasion to
consider the issue of transfer pricing adjustments being done in respect of
all transactions (entity level) or only in respect of transaction entered into
with Associated Enterprises in the following cases:--
> (i) CIT v. Hindustan Unilever Ltd. [2017] 394 ITR 73/[2016] 72 taxmann.com
> 325 (Bom.);
> (ii) CIT v. Tara Jewels Exports (P.) Ltd. [2016] 381 ITR 404/80 taxmann.com
> 117 (Bom.);
> (iii) CIT v. Petro Araldite (P.) Ltd. Income Tax Appeal No.1804 of 2013
> rendered on 24th November 2015;
> (iv) CIT v. Thyssen Krupp Industries (P.) Ltd. [2016] 381 ITR 413/70
> taxmann.com 329 (Bom.);
> (v) CIT v. Summit Diamond (India) Pvt. Ltd. Income Tax Appeal No.1647 of
> 2013 rendered on 11th July 2016.
In all above appeals, this Court after hearing both sides upheld the view of
the Tribunal that the transfer pricing adjustment has to be done only in
respect of International Transactions with Associated Enterprises and not at
an entity level. It may be pointed out that during the course of all the above
appeals, the fact that two appeals had been admitted on the above issue were
not pointed out.
81 ITA NO. 5924/Del/2012 (Giesecke & Devrient India Pvt. Ltd.)
8\. Nevertheless, the distinction sought to be made by the Revenue is that the
issue of non keeping of segmental accounts by the Assessee was not for
consideration in the above cases which were dismissed, as in this case.
9\. This very issue/question as raised herein was raised by the Revenue in
Petro Araldite (P.) Ltd. (supra). The question raised therein was as under:--
> "Whether on the facts and law the Tribunal was justified in directing AO/TPO
> to bench mark as AE transactions without appreciating (a) the Assessee
> itself in its transfer pricing study & report (TPSR) has chosen entity level
> PLI to benchmark the AE transactions; (b) the Assessee had itself failed to
> furnish audited segmental accounts and therefore, the TPO had rightly
> applied revised PLI at the entity level to determine the ALP?"
At the above hearing, the Revenue accepted that even in the absence of
segmental accounts, the adjustment has to be done only in respect of the
international transactions with Associated Enterprises. This is so recorded in
the order dated 24 November 2015\. Therefore, on the above ground itself, the
question as proposed does not give rise to any substantial question of law.
10\. We may once more note that the Income Tax Department within the
jurisdiction of this Court must adopt a consistent view on issues of law. In
this case, we find that the Revenue urges the absence of segmental accounts
would warrant entity wise adjustment, when the Revenue had itself in Petro
Araldite (P.) Ltd. (supra) did not canvas the point, as even according to it
82 ITA NO. 5924/Del/2012 (Giesecke & Devrient India Pvt. Ltd.) the issue stood
covered by the earlier orders of this Court in favour of the Assessee. The
Revenue must apply the law equally to all and cannot take inconsistent
position in law (de hors the facts) to apply different standards to different
assessee. The administration of the tax laws should not degenerate into an
arbitrary and inconsistent application of law dependent upon the Assessee
concerned.
11\. We also note that the Delhi High Court in CIT v. Keihin Panalfa Ltd. (ITA
No.11 of 2015) decided on 9th September, 2015 has while dealing with transfer
pricing adjustment in the absence of segmental accounts held that adjustments
have to be restricted only to transactions with Associated Enterprises. It
further held that where separate accounts are not available, then
proportionate adjustments to be made only in respect of the international
transactions with Associated Enterprises.
12\. We are in respectful agreement with the view of the Delhi High Court in
Keihin Panalfa Ltd. (supra). One must not lose sight of the fact that the
transfer pricing adjustment is done under Chapter X of the Act. The mandate
therein is only to redetermine the consideration received or given to arrive
at income arising from for International Transactions with Associated
Enterprises. This is particularly so as in respect of transaction with non
Associated Enterprises, Chapter X of the Act is not triggered to make
adjustment to considerations received or paid unless they are Specified
Domestic Transactions. The transaction with non- Associated Enterprises are
presumed to be at arms length as there is no relationship which is likely to
influence the price. If the contention of the Revenue is accepted, it would
lead to artificial 83 ITA NO. 5924/Del/2012 (Giesecke & Devrient India Pvt.
Ltd.) increase in the profits of transactions entered into with non Associated
Enterprises by applying the margin at entity level which is not the object of
Chapter X of the Act. Absence of segmental accounting is not an insurmountable
issue, as proportionate basis could be adopted as done by the Delhi High Court
in Keihin Panalfa Ltd. (supra).
13\. In the above view, no substantial question of law arises. Therefore, we
do not entertain the present appeal." 3.5.7 After considering the above and
respectfully following the judgments of the Hon'ble Bombay High Court and the
Hon'ble Delhi High Court, we hold that the proportionate adjustment is to be
allowed to the assessee and the exercise of benchmarking is to be restricted
to the value of international transaction. On the overall factual matrix, we
restore this issue to the file of AO/TPO to re- compute and benchmark this
transaction, after giving sufficient opportunity of hearing to the assessee.
3.6.0 The second issue argued by the Ld. Counsel for the assessee is regarding
allowability of capacity adjustment. During the course of assessment, TPO has
dealt with the issue of allowability of capacity adjustment whilst observing
as follows:
> "The assesse has provided some of the capacity utilization figures of the
> comparables. However out of the 4 comparables, data is not available in
> respect of Circuit Systems India Ltd. In respect of 84 ITA NO. 5924/Del/2012
> (Giesecke & Devrient India Pvt. Ltd.) Fine-line Circuit Ltd, the data is not
> available in respect of High technology multilayer broad segment. Under
> these circumstances, this data cannot be used to come to a conclusion in
> this regard.
Nevertheless, an analysis was made as to what is the percentage of total
expenditure that depreciation accounts for in respect of the assesse vis-à-vis
the comparables. In respect of the assesse it was found that depreciation was
4.27% of the total expenditure of this segment. In respect of the comparables
it was seen as below.
           S.No.   Name                                       Depn./TC (%)
           1.      BCC Fuba India Ltd.                        10.06
           2.      Circuit Systems India Ltd.                 3.95
           3.      Fine-line Circuits India Ltd.              5.32
           4.      Solectron EMS India Ltd.                   1.80
           Average                                            5.28
As it can be seen, the difference is not so large as to have a telling effect
on the profitability of the assesse. Another exercise was undertaken, of
calculating the OP/Sale margin of the assesse and comparables after excluding
depreciation. The result in the case of the assesse was (-) 15.22%. In the
case of the comparables it was as follows:
           S.No.   Name                                       OP/Sales (%)
           1.      BCC Fuba India Ltd.                        1.18
           2.      Circuit Systems India Ltd.                 12.76
           3.      Fine-line Circuits India Ltd.              (-)1.45
           4.      Solectron EMS India Ltd.                   6.64
           Average                                            4.78
As can be seen, the difference between the assessee's margin and that of the
comparables with or without depreciation remains 85 ITA NO. 5924/Del/2012
(Giesecke & Devrient India Pvt. Ltd.) more or less constant. Hence, there is
no case for a comparability adjustment on account of unutilized capacity in
this case. Besides this, admittedly the capacity utilization risk in this
segment is also borne by the assesse. Hence, as argued earlier, there can be
no case for comparability adjustment once the risk is borne by the assesse."
3.6.1 While dealing with the objections filed by the assessee regarding
allowability of capacity adjustment, the Ld. DRP has observed as follows:
> "The issue of capacity adjustment has been considered in detail by the TPO.
> Since the data of the comparables was not available with the TPO, he tried
> to make a study using depreciation figure in order to find out if there was
> any marked differences in asset utilization levels. It was not an implied
> position of the TPO to ascertain cash loss of the assesse. However, since
> the capacity utilization figures duly certified by auditors are not
> available, the capacity utilization was not considered. We do not find any
> infirmity in this."
3.6.2 Before us, the Ld. Counsel for the assessee has vehemently argued that,
undisputedly, assessee was bearing the risk of idle capacity and this being
one of the initial years of operation of its business, capacity adjustment
ought to have been granted in terms of Rule 10B (1)(e)(iii) read with Rule
10B(2)/(3) of the Income Tax Rules, 86 ITA NO. 5924/Del/2012 (Giesecke &
Devrient India Pvt. Ltd.) 1962 ('Rules'). On the issue of allowability and the
manner of computing the capacity adjustment, he placed heavy reliance on the
following judicial precedents:
> i. CIT vs Petro Araldite Pvt. Ltd. [2018] 93 taxmann.com 438 (Bombay)/[2018]
> 256 Taxman 16 (Bombay) ii. M/s. Royal Star Jewellery Pvt. Ltd. vs ACIT &
> Other, ITA 2463/2013, order dated 30.01.2017 (Bombay High Court) iii.
> Transwitch India (P.) Ltd. v. Dy. CIT [2012] 21 taxmann.com 257/53 SOT 151
> (Delhi - Trib.) iv. Dy. CIT v. Class India (P.) Ltd. [2015] 62 taxmann.com
> 173 (Delhi);
v. Saxo India (P.) Ltd. v Asstt. CIT [2016] 67 taxmann.com 155 (Delhi - Trib.)
vi. Molex India Tooling (P.) Ltd. vs DCIT [2016] 75 taxmann.com 303 (Bangalore
- Trib.) vii. HCL Technologies BPO Services Ltd. v. Asstt. CIT [2015] 60
taxmann.com 186/69 SOT 571 (Delhi) viii. Global Turbine Services Inc. v. ADIT
(International Taxation) [2013] 38 taxmann.com 220 (Delhi) ix. Dy. CIT v.
Innodata Isogen India (P.) Ltd. [IT Appeal No. 5390 (Delhi) of 2010] x. Google
India (P.) Ltd. [IT Appeal No. 1170 (Bang.) of 2011] xi. Calsonic Kansel
Motherson Products Ltd. vs DCIT [2016] 72 taxmann.com 109 (Delhi - Trib.) xii.
Fiat India (P.) Ltd. [IT Appeal No. 1848 (Mum.) of 2009] xiii. Global Vantedge
(P.) Ltd. v. Dy. CIT [2010] 37 SOT 1 (Delhi).
87 ITA NO. 5924/Del/2012 (Giesecke & Devrient India Pvt. Ltd.) xiv. Tasty Bite
Eatables Ltd. vs ACIT [2015] 59 taxmann.com 437 (Pune - Trib.) 3.6.3 Further,
the Ld. Counsel fairly accepted out that the issue of allowability of capacity
adjustment was decided against the assessee in earlier assessment year by the
co-ordinate Bench of this Tribunal vide order dated 15.03.2013. He submitted
that though an appeal was filed challenging the said order dated 15.03.2013
passed by the Tribunal, the Hon'ble Delhi High Court, vide order dated
27.08.2014, dismissed the appeal of the Assessee as being barred by
limitation, but with a liberty to agitate this issue before the Tribunal in
subsequent years and to suitably represent the relevant facts and legal
position before the Tribunal in accordance with law. He further tried to
distinguish the earlier decision of the coordinate Bench whilst arguing that
the Tribunal in its earlier decision had per se not considered the issue of
allowability of capacity adjustment and had refused to interfere with the
findings of lower authorities on this issue as the relevant data was not
available on record. He submitted that the relevant data is now available on
record. To buttress his arguments, he placed heavy reliance on a recent
decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Canara Bank vs. N.G. Subbaraya Setty
& Anr. Reported in 2018 SCC OnLine SC 427, wherein exceptions to the 88 ITA
NO. 5924/Del/2012 (Giesecke & Devrient India Pvt. Ltd.) principle of res
judicata have been explained. He argued that since now issue of allowability
and computation of capacity adjustment has been settled by a higher forum,
i.e., the Bombay High, whilst interpreting the provisions of Rule 10B (1)(e)
read with Rule 10B(2)/(3) of the Rules, a legally sustainable claim of
Assessee cannot be rejected.
3.6.4 The Learned CIT Departmental Representative, on the other hand,
supported the orders of the authorities below and argued that the decision of
this Tribunal rejecting the claim of capacity adjustment be followed.
3.6.5 We have heard the rival submissions of the parties and also perused the
relevant material on record. We find force in the submissions of the Ld.
Counsel for the assessee that in terms of the liberty granted by the Hon'ble
High Court in assessee's own case and in view of the recent decision of
Hon'ble Bombay High Court in CIT vs. Petro Araldite Pvt. Ltd. reported in
[2018] 93 taxmann.com 438 (Bombay)/[2018] 256 Taxman 16 (Bombay), wherein it
is held that capacity adjustment is allowable in terms of Rule 10B (1)(e)(iii)
read with Rule 10B(2)/(3) of the Rules, the earlier decision of coordinate
Bench in Assessee's own case would no act as a impediment to allow capacity
adjustment for the relevant period. We notice that Ld. Counsel for the
assessee has placed on record revised working with 89 ITA NO. 5924/Del/2012
(Giesecke & Devrient India Pvt. Ltd.) respect to computation of capacity
adjustment in terms of the recent decision of coordinate Benches of the
Tribunal and the Hon'ble High Court and, therefore, the earlier decision of
Tribunal is distinguishable on this count itself. We are of the opinion that
if correct and reliable data is available, then capacity adjustment deserves
to be allowed in terms of Rule 10B of the Rules. Our view is further fortified
by the decision of Hon'ble Supreme Court in Canara Bank vs. N.G. Subbaraya
Setty & Anr. Reported in 2018 SCC OnLine SC 427, wherein exceptions to the
principle of res judicata have been explained, by observing as follows:
> "34. Given the conspectus of authorities that have been referred to by us
> hereinabove, the law on the subject may be stated as follows:
> (1) The general rule is that all issues that arise directly and
> substantially in a former suit or proceeding between the same parties are
> res judicata in a subsequent suit or proceeding between the same parties.
> These would include issues of fact, mixed questions of fact and law, and
> issues of law.
> (2) To this general proposition of law, there are certain exceptions when it
> comes to issues of law:
(i) Where an issue of law decided between the same parties in a former suit or
proceeding relates to the jurisdiction of the Court, an erroneous decision in
the former suit or proceeding 90 ITA NO. 5924/Del/2012 (Giesecke & Devrient
India Pvt. Ltd.) is not res judicata in a subsequent suit or proceeding
between the same parties, even where the issue raised in the second suit or
proceeding is directly and substantially the same as that raised in the former
suit or proceeding. This follows from a reading of Section 11 of the Code of
Civil Procedure itself, for the Court which decides the suit has to be a Court
competent to try such suit. When read with Explanation (I) to Section 11, it
is obvious that both the former as well as the subsequent suit need to be
decided in Courts competent to try such suits, for the "former suit" can be a
suit instituted after the first suit, but which has been decided prior to the
suit which was instituted earlier. An erroneous decision as to the
jurisdiction of a Court cannot clothe that Court with jurisdiction where it
has none. Obviously, a Civil Court cannot send a person to jail for an offence
committed under the Indian Penal Code. If it does so, such a judgment would
not bind a Magistrate and/or Sessions Court in a subsequent proceeding between
the same parties, where the Magistrate sentences the same person for the same
offence under the Penal Code. Equally, a Civil Court cannot decide a suit
between a landlord and a tenant arising out of the rights claimed under a Rent
Act, where the Rent Act clothes a special Court with jurisdiction to decide
such suits. As an example, under Section 28 of the Bombay Rent Act, 1947, the
Small Causes Court has exclusive jurisdiction to hear and decide proceedings
between a landlord and a tenant in respect of rights which arise out of the
Bombay Rent Act, and no other Court has jurisdiction to embark upon the same.
In this case, even 91 ITA NO. 5924/Del/2012 (Giesecke & Devrient India Pvt.
Ltd.) though the Civil Court, in the absence of the statutory bar created by
the Rent Act, would have jurisdiction to decide such suits, it is the
statutory bar created by the Rent Act that must be given effect to as a matter
of public policy. (See, Natraj Studios (P) Ltd. v. Navrang Studios, (1981) 1
SCC 523 : (1981) 2 SCR 466 at 482). An erroneous decision clothing the Civil
Court with jurisdiction to embark upon a suit filed by a landlord against a
tenant, in respect of rights claimed under the Bombay Rent Act, would,
therefore, not operate as res judicata in a subsequent suit filed before the
Small Causes Court between the same parties in respect of the same matter
directly and substantially in issue in the former suit.
(ii) An issue of law which arises between the same parties in a subsequent
suit or proceeding is not res judicata if, by an erroneous decision given on a
statutory prohibition in the former suit or proceeding, the statutory
prohibition is not given effect to. This is despite the fact that the matter
in issue between the parties may be the same as that directly and
substantially in issue in the previous suit or proceeding. This is for the
reason that in such cases, the rights of the parties are not the only matter
for consideration (as is the case of an erroneous interpretation of a statute
inter parties), as the public policy contained in the statutory prohibition
cannot be set at naught. This is for the same reason as that contained in
matters which pertain to issues of law that raise jurisdictional questions. We
have seen how, in Natraj Studios (supra), it is the public policy of the
statutory 92 ITA NO. 5924/Del/2012 (Giesecke & Devrient India Pvt. Ltd.)
prohibition contained in Section 28 of the Bombay Rent Act that has to be
given effect to. Likewise, the public policy contained in other statutory
prohibitions, which need not necessarily go to jurisdiction of a Court, must
equally be given effect to, as otherwise special principles of law are
fastened upon parties when special considerations relating to public policy
mandate that this cannot be done.
(iii) Another exception to this general rule follows from the matter in issue
being an issue of law different from that in the previous suit or proceeding.
This can happen when the issue of law in the second suit or proceeding is
based on different facts from the matter directly and substantially in issue
in the first suit or proceeding. Equally, where the law is altered by a
competent authority since the earlier decision, the matter in issue in the
subsequent suit or proceeding is not the same as in the previous suit or
proceeding, because the law to be interpreted is different."
3.6.6 On the issue of allowability of capacity adjustment, we are of the
considered view that higher capacity utilization would lead to higher
profitability as fixed costs would be spread over in a larger number of units
manufactured. The difference in capacity utilization would materially affect
the profit margin. Thus, if there is a difference in the level of capacity
utilization of the assessee and the level of capacity utilization of the
comparable, then adjustment would be required to be made to the profit margin
of the comparable on 93 ITA NO. 5924/Del/2012 (Giesecke & Devrient India Pvt.
Ltd.) account of difference in capacity utilization in terms of Rule 10B
(1)(e)(iii) read with Rule 10B(2)/(3) of the Rules. Our view is fortified by
the recent decision of Hon'ble Bombay High Court in the case of CIT vs. Petro
Araldite Pvt. Ltd. reported in [2018] 93 taxmann.com 438 (Bombay)/[2018] 256
Taxman 16 (Bombay). After considering plethora of case laws on the issue of
allowability of capacity adjustment, the coordinate Bench of the Delhi
Tribunal in HCL Technologies BPO Services Ltd. vs. ACIT reported in [2015] 172
TTJ 1 (Delhi - Trib.), observed as follows :
> "29. Reliance in this regard is also placed on the recent decision of
> Chennai Bench of the Tribunal in the case of Mando India Steering Systems
> (P.) Ltd. v. Asstt. CIT [2014] 49 ITD 284/45 taxmann.com 160 wherein, the
> Hon'ble Bench has remitted the issue back to the file of the assessing
> officer with a direction to consider the claim of the assessee with respect
> to idle capacity adjustment during the relevant period while determining the
> ALP cost. The relevant extract of the decision reads as under:
> "We are of the considered view that under-utilization of production capacity
> in the initial years is a vital factor which has been ignored by the
> authorities below while determining the ALP cost. The TPO should have made
> allowance for the higher overhead expenditure during the initial period of
> production. In view of the above, we deem it appropriate to remit this issue
> back to the Assessing Officer with a direction to consider the claim of the
> assessee with respect to idle capacity adjustment during the relevant period
> while determining the ALP cost. The assessee is also directed to produce
> relevant documents in comparable units for the 94 ITA NO. 5924/Del/2012
> (Giesecke & Devrient India Pvt. Ltd.) necessary analysis. The appeal of the
> assessee is allowed for statistical purposes in the aforesaid terms."
> 30\. Reliance in this regard is placed on the decision of Pune Bench of the
> Tribunal in the case of Amdocs Business Services (P.) Ltd. v. Dy. CIT [2012]
> 54 SOT 46 (URO)/26 taxmann.com 120 wherein, the Tribunal allowed economic
> adjustment on account of under capacity utilization holding that the
> appellant was in start up phase during the assessment year consideration.
The relevant extract of the decision is reproduced as under:
> "9. The next major point made out by the appellant is that this being the
> first full year of operation, the assessee had incurred certain expenditure
> which are start-up costs and cannot be fully recovered in the instant year
> itself, and such an expenditure has abnormally affected the profit margin.
> It is also canvassed that due to the start-up year the capacity utilization
> was not satisfactory, whereas its profitability has been bench marked
> against comparables which are established entities -and have been set up
> over the years. The plea set- up by the assessee for economic adjustments on
> account of under capacity utilization and being in start up phase, is not
> something which is unreasonable and neither it is otiose to the mechanism of
> transfer pricing assessments. In fact, in principle, the plea of the
> assessee is in line with the decisions of the Tribunal in the case of Global
> Venttedge (P.) Ltd. v. DCIT in ITA Nos. 1763-2764/ Del/09 (Del); Brintons
> Carpets' Asia (P) Ltd. v. DCIT 139 TTJ -177; and, Skoda, Auto India (P.)
> Ltd. v. ACIT 122 TT J 699. In our view, the matter requiring factual
> appreciation, the same is remanded back to the file of the Assessing
> Officer, who shall consider the propositions put forth by the assessee and
> allow appropriate economic adjustments on a reasonable basis."
31\. On the same lines, Delhi Bench of the Tribunal in the case of Global
Turbine Services Inc. v. ADIT (International 95 ITA NO. 5924/Del/2012
(Giesecke & Devrient India Pvt. Ltd.) Taxation) [2013] 38 taxmann.com 220
allowed economic adjustment on-account of under capacity utilization
considering the fact that the year under consideration was the first full year
of operation of the appellant. Relevant extract of the decision reads as
under:
> "10. We have heard the rival contentions and perused the material available
> on record. The suitable adjustment for non-utilisation of capacity is to be
> taken in to account after considering the ALP while working out TP
> adjustment, this proposition has been held by co-ordinate Bench in the case
> of the Amdocs Business Services (P.) Ltd. (supra ) and various other cases
> as cited here in above.
> 11\. In the given facts and circumstances it was required on the part of the
> lower authorities to have given due effect to under capacity utilization of
> the assessee which has not been done TPO for adjustment for ALP
> determination. In view of the facts and circumstances we are inclined to set
> aside the matter and restore the issue of under capacity utilization back to
> the file of the Assessing Officer/TPO to decide the same afresh after giving
> assessee adequate opportunity of being heard and to file the necessary
> evidence on this behalf. Needless to say that a proper and speaking order
> will be passed deciding the issue in accordance with law."
32\. Reliance in this regard is placed on the following observation of the
Hon'ble Mumbai Bench of the Tribunal in the case of ACIT v. Fiat India (P.)
Ltd. [IT Appeal no 1848 (Mum) of 2009):
> "As rightly held by the ld. CIT(A), the said submission made by the
> appellant is sufficient to demonstrate that there was a material difference
> in the facts of the appellant's case and that of the comparable cases in
> terms of capacity utilization as well as in other terms. Appropriate
> adjustments thus were required to be made to eliminate such differences"
> 96 ITA NO. 5924/Del/2012 (Giesecke & Devrient India Pvt. Ltd.)
> 33\. Further, the Hon'ble Pune Bench of the Tribunal in the case of Brintons
> Carpets Asia (P.) Ltd. v. Dy. CIT [2011] 46 SOT 289 (URO)/12 taxmann.com 148
> while allowing adjustment for idle capacity caused due to labour
> unrest/strike and relying upon the above observation of the Mumbai Tribunal
> held as follows:
> "15. From the above, it is clear the AO has authority vide clause (iii)
> above to make the adjustments. Such adjustments are necessary only to remove
> or minimize the differences in the comparable or anomaly in the said
> comparable.
> \- Such adjustments are authenticated by the OECD guidelines too. In this
> regard, we have perused the important findings of the Tribunal in the case
> of the Fiat India (P.) Ltd (supra ) placed at page 191 of the paper book.
> For the sake completeness, the same is reproduced as under.
> . . . . . as regards the adjustments made by the appellant to work out its
> operating margin for comparing the same with the profit margin of comparable
> cases, it was held that there was a material difference in the facts of the
> appellant's case and that of the comparable cases in terms of capacity
> utilization as well as in other terms. Appropriate adjustments thus were
> required to be made to eliminate such differences. Further, the TPO himself
> has allowed similar adjustments made by the appellant in the immediate
> preceding years i.e. AY 2002- 03, 2003-04 as well as in the immediate
> succeeding years i.e. 2005-06 and 2006-07 wherein the facts involved were
> similar to that of the year under consideration i.e. AY 2004-05;
> accordingly, no infirmity is found in the impugned order of the CIT (A) as
> the adjustments made by the appellant in TNMM analysis were reasonable and
> accurate and as reflected in the said analysis, international transactions
> made by the appellant company with its associated 97 ITA NO. 5924/Del/2012
> (Giesecke & Devrient India Pvt. Ltd.) concerns during the year under
> consideration were at arm's length requiring no adjustment/addition on this
> issue.
> 16\. From the above, it is evident that the appellant is entitled to
> economic adjustments in the circumstances of under capacity utilization of
> the company. Of course, such adjustments must be restricted to fixed
> cost/overheads only. In the instant case, the AO/TPO did not have the
> occasion to go into the period or the extent of the labour unrest, break-up
> of the claimed adjustments amounting Rs. 7.32 crores (rounded off), fixed
> cost versus the variable cost etc. as they summarily rejected the external
> comparables in view of their preference to the operating profits of the
> domestic segment of the carpets. Therefore and consequently, this key issue
> also has to be set aside to the files of the TPO/AO for fresh examination of
> the issue.
> Prima facie we see the need for such economic adjustments to the total cost
> of the carpet of the export segment. We refuse to comment on the facts
> relating to the figures as none of the authorities has gone into the details
> of such economic adjustments and they summarily rejected the claims. As
> such, the requisite adjustments are borne out of the relevant
> rules/provisions and therefore, the claim is bona fide and has support of
> the law. For this, the appellant prefers to go to the files of the AO for
> want of a speaking order on this issue. In our opinion, the request of the
> appellant deserves to be considered favourable."
> 34\. Also, in the case of E.I. Dupont India (P.) Ltd. v. Dy. CIT [2012] 49
> SOT 123/[2011] 16 taxmann.com 352 (Delhi), the Hon'ble Delhi Bench of the
> Tribunal, while allowing the adjustment for capacity utilization held that:
> 98 ITA NO. 5924/Del/2012 (Giesecke & Devrient India Pvt. Ltd.) '"It is a
> matter of fact that fixed costs remain the same even when there is under
> utilization of capacity. Therefore, the case of the appellant and the
> comparable cases have to be examined in respect of capacity utilization so
> as to make the controlled and uncontrolled transactions comparable."
Also, the Hon'ble Delhi Bench of the Tribunal in the case of ITO v. CRM
Services India Pvt. Ltd. upheld the claim of the appellant towards adjustment
of idle capacity:
> "8.1 This brings us to the alternative argument that the appellant is
> entitled to get adjustment in respect of capacity under-utilization. No
> objection has been raised by the ld. CIT, DR in this matter. As a matter of
> fact, he has fairly accepted the proposition that adjustment in this regard
> is required to be made.
> At the same time, it is also held that suitable adjustment has to be made to
> such PLI in respect of idle capacity."'
35\. Further, the Hon'ble Bangalore bench of the Tribunal in the case of
Genisys Integrating Systems (India) (P.) Ltd. v. Dy. CIT [2012] 53 SOT 159/20
taxmann.com 715 the Hon'ble Tribunal held as under:
> "The appellant should also be given adjustment for under utilization of its
> infrastructure. The AO shall consider this fact also while determining the
> ALP find make the TP adjustments. With these directions, the appeal of the
> appellant is disposed of. "
36\. Further, the Hon'ble Delhi' Bench of the Tribunal in the case of
Transwitch India (P.) Ltd. v. Dy. CIT [2012] 53 SOT 151/21 taxmann.com 257
held as under:
> "4.11 Another TPO's contention is that claim of the appellant that the
> sealing drive reduced its revenue is 99 ITA NO. 5924/Del/2012 (Giesecke &
> Devrient India Pvt. Ltd.) unsubstantiated. In this regard, appellant has
> submitted that the appellant had placed on record its quarterly 'capacity'
> utilization statement demonstrating the fall in its capacity utilization
> during the quarter January to March, 2006. The capacity utilization, of the
> appellant during the quarter January to March, 2006 fell to 72% as' against
> the normal capacity utilization of 87% to 94% during the financial year
> ending December, 31, 2005. Further, the fact that the appellant had to shift
> its office premises at a very short notice, sufficiently substantiates the
> low capacity utilization of the appellant during the last quarter of
> financial year 2005-06. We find out ourselves in agreement with the
> appellant's submission in this regard."
37\. Hon'ble Delhi High Court, in the appeal preferred by the revenue in the
case of Transwitch India (P.) Ltd. (supra), vide order dated 17.07.2013,
upheld the adjustment claimed by the assessee on account of capacity
utilization. Reliance in this regard is also placed on the recent decision of
Delhi Bench of the Tribunal in the case of Dy. CIT v. Panasonic AVC Networks
India Co. Ltd. [2014] 63 SOT 121 (URO)/42 taxmann.com 420, wherein the Hon'ble
Bench has held that capacity underutilization is an important factor affecting
net profit margin as lower capacity utilization results in higher per unit
costs which in turn results in lower profits. The relevant finding of the
decision reads as under:
> "5. Having heard the rival contentions and having perused the material on
> record, we see no reasons to interfere in very well reasoned findings and
> directions of the learned CIT (A). Rule 10B (1)(e)(ii) of the Income Tax
> Rules 1962 does indeed provide that the net profit margin realized in a
> comparable uncontrolled transaction is adjusted, inter alia, for differences
> in enterprise entering 100 ITA NO. 5924/Del/2012 (Giesecke & Devrient India
> Pvt. Ltd.) into such transactions, which could materially affect the net
> profit margin in open market. Capacity underutilization by enterprises is
> certainly an important factor affecting net profit margin in the open market
> because lower capacity utilization results in higher per unit costs, which,
> in turn, results in lower profits. Of course, the fundamental issue, so far
> as acceptability of such adjustments is concerted, is reasonable accuracy
> embedded in the mechanism for such adjustments, 'end as long as such an
> adjustment mechanism can be found, no objection can be taken to the
> adjustment. In our considered view, the learned CIT (A)'s approach is
> reasonable in this regard and the adjustments are on a conceptually sound
> basis. In any case, as pointed out by the learned counsel, the adjustments
> so directed by the learned CIT(A) have duly been made by the Assessing
> Officer, and there have been no issues regarding implementing these
> adjustments. We approve the conclusions arrived by the CIT (A) on this issue
> and decline to interfere in the matter."
38\. In view of the aforesaid, it is respectfully submitted that appropriate
adjustment for idle capacity is required to be made while computing the
operating margin of the appellant.
39\. We have heard rival submissions and perused the material placed on
record. We find that there is force in the argument of Ld. Counsel for the
assessee that while calculating operating cost, the abnormal cost incurred on
account of start-up should be excluded. Following the same parity of reasoning
in the cases cited by him and keeping in view that the judgement of ITAT co-
ordinate Bench in the case of Transwitch India (P.) Ltd. (supra ) affirmed by
Hon'ble Delhi High Court. Therefore, respectfully following the decision of
Hon'ble High Court, we direct TPO/A.O. to adjust operating cost by excluding
abnormal cost incurred on account of 101 ITA NO. 5924/Del/2012 (Giesecke &
Devrient India Pvt. Ltd.) start-up company like salary, rent and depreciation.
This matter is restored to the file of TPO/A.O. to re-determine the operating
cost on the above lines to arrive at operating profit." 3.6.7 Respectfully
following the judgment of the Hon'ble Bombay High Court and the decision/s of
the coordinate benches of Tribunal as aforementioned, we are of the considered
opinion that the Assessee is entitled to the benefit of capacity adjustment
whilst benchmarking the international transaction of SIM Card Assembly. 3.6.8
Another linked issue is regarding computation of capacity adjustment. In our
opinion, the methodology adopted by TPO/DRP in computing 'capacity adjustment'
whilst only considering the depreciation, is erroneous. Recently, the issue of
computation of capacity adjustment has been considered by the coordinate Bench
of the Delhi Tribunal in DCIT vs. Claas India (P) Ltd reported in [2015] 62
taxmann.com 173 (Delhi - Trib.) by observing as follows:
> "8. We have heard the rival submissions and perused the relevant material on
> record. Before embarking upon the question of allowability and extent of
> capacity adjustment under the TNMM, we want to make it clear that the
> assessee reduced its operating costs by considering its capacity utilization
> vis-à-vis that of comparables and resultantly claimed that its increased
> profit as a result of such reduced operating costs be compared with that of
> the comparables. The TPO has also agreed in principle with the 102 ITA NO.
> 5924/Del/2012 (Giesecke & Devrient India Pvt. Ltd.) otherwise availability
> of the capacity adjustment. The issue of allowing capacity adjustment before
> us can be divided into two sub-issues for consideration, viz., first,
> whether the adjustment should be allowed in the hands of the assessee as has
> been done by the authorities below or comparables and second, how to compute
> capacity utilization adjustment under the TNMM. We will deal with these
> aspects one by one.
i. Capacity adjustment should be allowed in whose hands? 9.1 It has been
noticed above that the assessee claimed idle capacity adjustment by reducing
its own operating costs. It is further observed that the authorities below
have reduced the amount of adjustment by excluding certain costs from the
ambit of the costs qualifying for adjustment. However, the adjustment has been
ultimately allowed from the operating costs incurred by the assessee. In such
circumstances, the question arises as to whether the action of the authorities
in allowing the reduction of the operating costs incurred by the assessee, is
in accordance with law? In order to find answer to this question, we need to
refer to the manner of computation of the arm's length price under TNMM, which
has been set out in Rule 10B (1)(e) as under:--
> "(e) transactional net margin method, by which,--
> (i) the net profit margin realised by the enterprise from an international
> transaction entered into with an associated enterprise is computed in
> relation to costs incurred or sales effected or assets employed or to be
> employed by the enterprise or having regard to any other relevant base ;
> (ii) the net profit margin realised by the enterprise or by an unrelated
> enterprise from a comparable uncontrolled transaction or a number of such
> transactions is computed having regard to the same base ;
                               103          ITA NO. 5924/Del/2012
                                    (Giesecke & Devrient India Pvt. Ltd.)
         (iii)    the net profit margin referred to in sub-clause (ii)
> arising in comparable uncontrolled transactions is adjusted to take into
> account the differences, if any, between the international transaction and
> the comparable uncontrolled transactions, or between the enterprises
> entering into such transactions, which could materially affect the amount of
> net profit margin in the open market ;
> (iv) the net profit margin realised by the enterprise and referred to in
> sub-clause (i) is established to be the same as the net profit margin
> referred to in sub- clause (iii) ;
> (v) the net profit margin thus established is then taken into account to
> arrive at an arm's length price in relation to the international
> transaction."
9.2 Sub-clause (i) in the process of determination of the ALP under the TNMM
talks of the computation of net operating profit margin realized by the
assessee from an international transaction. Sub- clause (ii) is the
computation of net operating profit margin realized by an unrelated enterprise
from a comparable uncontrolled transaction. This refers to determining the
operating profit margin of comparables with the same base as that of the
assessee. Sub-clause (iii) provides that the net profit margin realized by a
comparable company, determined as per sub-clause
(ii) above, 'is adjusted to take into account the differences, if any, between
the international transaction and the comparable uncontrolled transactions,
which could materially affect the amount of net profit margin in the open
market.' It is this adjusted net profit margin of the unrelated transactions
or of the comparable companies, as determined under sub-clause (iii), which is
used for the purposes of making comparison with the net profit margin realized
by the assessee from its international transaction as per sub-clause (i).
9.3 Sub-rule (2) of Rule 10B provides that the comparability of an
international transaction with an uncontrolled transaction shall be 104 ITA
NO. 5924/Del/2012 (Giesecke & Devrient India Pvt. Ltd.) judged with reference
to certain factors which have been enumerated therein. Rule 10B(3) states that
an uncontrolled transaction shall be comparable to an international
transaction, if either there are no differences between the two or a
'reasonably accurate adjustment can be made to eliminate the material effects
of such differences.' When we read sub-clauses (ii) & (iii) of Rule 10B(1)(e)
in juxtaposition to sub-rules (2) & (3) of rule 10B, the position which
emerges is that the net operating profit margin of comparable companies calls
for adjustment in such a manner so as to bring both the international
transaction and comparable cases at the same pedestal. In other words, if
there are no differences in these two, then the average of the net operating
profit margin of the comparable companies becomes a benchmark. However, in
case there are some differences between the comparables and the assessee, then
the effect of such differences should be ironed out by making suitable
adjustment to the operating profit margin of comparables. That is the way for
bringing both the transactions, namely, the international transaction and the
comparable uncontrolled transactions, on the same platform for making a
meaningful and effective comparison. The above analysis overtly transpires
that the law provides for adjusting the profit margin of comparables on
account of the material differences between the international transaction of
the assessee and comparable uncontrolled transactions. It is not the other way
around to adjust the profit margin of the assessee. In other words, the net
operating profit margin realized by the assessee from its international
transaction is to be computed as such, without adjusting it on account of
differences with the comparable uncontrolled transactions. The adjustment, if
any, is required to be made only in the profit margins of the comparables. 9.4
Reverting to the facts of the instant case, we find that the authorities below
have adjusted the operating costs of the assessee in allowing the capacity
adjustment. As against that, the correct course of action provided under the
law is to adjust the operating costs of the comparable and their resultant
operating profit. There is hardly need to accentuate that there can be no
estoppel against the law. Once the law enjoins for doing a 105 ITA NO.
5924/Del/2012 (Giesecke & Devrient India Pvt. Ltd.) particular thing in a
particular manner alone, it is not open to anyone to adopt a contrary or
different approach. As the authorities below have adopted a course of action
in allowing adjustment, which is not in consonance with law, we cannot approve
the same. The impugned order is set aside and the matter is restored to the
file of the TPO/AO for giving effect to the amount of idle capacity adjustment
in the operating profit of the comparables and not the assessee.
ii. How to compute capacity utilization adjustment under TNMM: 10.1 Under the
TNMM, the ALP of an international transaction is determined by computing and
comparing the percentage of operating profit margin realized by the assessee
with that of the comparables. We have noticed above that the difference in the
capacity utilizations is an important factor, which needs to be adjusted. No
mechanism has been given under the Act or the rules for computing the amount
of capacity utilization adjustment. 10.2 On an overall understanding, we feel
that under the TNMM, the first step in granting capacity utilization
adjustment is to ascertain the percentage of capacity utilization by the
assessee and comparables. There can be no difficulty in working out these
percentages. The second step is to give effect (positive or negative) to the
difference in the percentage of capacity utilizations of the assessee vis-à-
vis comparables, one by one, in the operating profit of comparables by
adjusting their respective operating costs. Operating costs can be either
fixed or variable or semi-variable. One needs to split semi-variable costs
into the fixed part and variable part. In so far as the variable costs and the
variable part of the semi-variable costs are concerned, these remain
unaffected due to any under or over utilization of capacity. Accordingly, such
variable operating costs remain unchanged. The adjustment is called for only
in respect of the fixed operating costs and fixed part of semi-variable costs.
Such costs are scaled up or down by considering the percentage of capacity
utilization by the assessee and such comparable. It can be illustrated with
the help of a simple example. Suppose the fixed costs incurred by a comparable
(say, A) are Rs. 100 and it has capacity utilization of 50% as 106 ITA NO.
5924/Del/2012 (Giesecke & Devrient India Pvt. Ltd.) against the capacity
utilization of 25% by the assessee. The above percentages show that the
assessee has incurred full fixed costs with 25% of the utilization of its
capacity, as against A incurring full fixed costs with 50% of its capacity
utilization. This divulges that the assessee has incurred relatively more
fixed costs and A has incurred lower costs. In order to make an effective
comparison, there arises a need to obliterate the effect of this difference in
capacity utilizations. It can be done by proportionately scaling up the fixed
costs incurred by A so as to make it fully comparable with the assessee. This
we can do by increasing the fixed costs of A to Rs. 200 (Rs. 100 into 50/25)
as against the actually incurred fixed costs by it at Rs. 100. When we compute
operating profit of A by substituting the fixed costs at Rs. 200 with the
actually incurred at Rs. 100, it would mean that the fixed costs incurred by
the assessee and A are at the same capacity utilization. There can be converse
situation as well. Suppose the fixed costs incurred by a comparable (say, B)
are Rs. 100 and it has capacity utilization of 25% as against the capacity
utilization of 50% by the assessee. The above percentages show that the
assessee has incurred full fixed costs at 50% of the utilization of its
capacity, as against B incurring full fixed costs at 25% of the capacity
utilization. This deciphers that the assessee has incurred relatively lower
fixed costs and B has incurred higher costs. This difference in
capacityutilizations can be eliminated by proportionately scaling down the
fixed costs incurred by B so as to make it fully comparable. This we can do by
reducing the fixed costs of B to Rs. 50 (Rs.100 into 25/50) as against the
actually incurred fixed cost by it at Rs.100. When we compute operating profit
of B by substituting the fixed costs at Rs. 50 with the actually incurred at
Rs. 100, it would mean that the fixed costs incurred by the assessee and B are
at the same capacity utilization level.
10.3 Turning to the facts of the instant case, we find that both the TPO as
well as the ld. CIT(A) have proceeded on a wrong premise not only by allowing
capacity utilization adjustment in the assessee's profit, which is contrary to
the legal position as discussed above, but also by considering all the
comparables as 107 ITA NO. 5924/Del/2012 (Giesecke & Devrient India Pvt. Ltd.)
one unit with the average percentage of their respective capacity
utilizations. It is further observed that in the calculation of such capacity
utilization adjustment, the ld. CIT (A) has considered four companies as
comparable, which view has been modified by us supra inasmuch as we have held
that M/s Eicher Motors and M/s. Force Motors are incomparable. Naturally, they
would also go out of reckoning in the computation of idle capacity utilization
adjustment. In the absence of the availability of financials of all the
comparable companies, it is not possible at our end to work out the amount of
capacity adjustment in the manner discussed above. Ergo, we set aside the
impugned order and direct the TPO/AO to work out the amount of capacity
utilization adjustment afresh in terms of our above observations. Needless to
say, the assessee will be allowed a reasonable opportunity of hearing in such
fresh proceedings." 3.6.9 Respectfully following the decision of the
coordinate bench of the Tribunal in DCIT vs. Claas India (P) Ltd. reported in
[2015] 62 taxmann.com 173 (Delhi - Trib.), we are of the opinion that the
issue of computation of capacity adjustment requires reconsideration and is
thus, restored to file of AO/TPO for re-computation in light of our
observations in the preceding paragraph, after granting sufficient opportunity
of hearing to the assessee.
3.7.0 The next issue is regarding allowability of working capacity adjustment.
Before us, the Ld. Counsel for the assessee has vehemently argued that the
TPO/Ld. DRP has erred in not allowing working capital adjustment in terms of
Rule 10B (1)(e)(iii) read with 108 ITA NO. 5924/Del/2012 (Giesecke & Devrient
India Pvt. Ltd.) Rule 10B(2)/ (3) of the Rules. He pointed out that during the
relevant period, working capital adjustment has been granted for Software
Development Segment, however, the same has not been granted for the SIM Card
Assembly Segment. Placing reliance on the recent decision of the coordinate
Bench of the Delhi Tribunal in Agilent Technologies (International) (P) Ltd.
vs. ITO reported in [2018] 91 taxmann.com 59 (Delhi - Trib.), he submitted
that the claim of working capital adjustment is to be allowed for service
industry also. He argued that such an adjustment is restricted to inventory,
trade receivables and trade payables. It was submitted that if a company
carries high trade receivables, it would mean that it is allowing its
customers relatively longer period to pay their dues, which will result into
higher interest cost and the resultant low net profit. Similarly, by carrying
high trade payables, a company benefits from a relatively longer period
available to it for paying back the dues to its suppliers, which reduces the
interest cost and increases profits. In order to neutralize the differences on
account of carrying high or low inventory, trade payables and trade
receivables, as the case may be, it becomes eminent to allow working capital
adjustment so as to bring the case of the assessee at par with the other
functionally comparable entities.
                                      109          ITA NO. 5924/Del/2012
                                           (Giesecke & Devrient India Pvt. Ltd.)
    3.7.1       On   the   other     hand,      the      Ld.     CIT      Departmental
Representative placed heavy reliance on the order of lower authorities. 3.7.2
We have heard the rival submissions of the parties and perused the relevant
material on record. We are of the opinion that once the TPO/Ld. DRP has
principally allowed the claim of working capital adjustment with respect to
Software Development Segment than there is no occasion to disallow similar
claim for SIM Card Assembly Segment. Now there are various guidelines and
factors that have been laid down to work out the working capital adjustment
and accordingly, we direct the assessee to provide the detailed working of the
working capital adjustment to the TPO and he is directed to verify the
correctness of the amount and the working capital adjustment as given by the
assessee and allow the same in accordance with settled principles. Thus, with
this direction, this issue is treated as allowed for statistical purposes.
3.8.0 Having considered the main arguments of the assessee regarding
allowability of proportionate adjustment, capacity adjustment and working
capital adjustment and allowing the same for statistical purpose, while
restoring them to the file of AO/TPO for computation, we are not inclined to
adjudicate on the other alternative legal issues regarding admissibility of
internal comparable and taking foreign AE as the tested party. The assessee
is, however, 110 ITA NO. 5924/Del/2012 (Giesecke & Devrient India Pvt. Ltd.)
at liberty to raise such issues before the lower authorities, should the need
arise.
3.9.0 Ground No. 6 of the appeal dealing with levy of interest under section
234B of the Act, is disposed off as being mandatory and consequential.
3.10.0 Ground No. 7 of the appeal deals with corporate tax issue regarding not
granting full credit of advance tax of Rs.20,698,500/- paid by the Assessee
and also short credit of tax deducted at source of Rs.15,01,872/- on the
income of the appellant. The Ld. Counsel for the assessee has prayed that this
issue may be restored to the file of the AO for verification. Per contra, the
Ld. CIT Departmental Representative has fairly conceded that she has no
objection with verification of such claim. In terms of the above, we direct
the AO to verify and allow the claim of the Assessee regarding granting full
credit of advance tax of Rs.20,698,500/- paid by the Assessee and also short
credit of tax deducted at source of Rs.15,01,872/-. 4.0 In the final result,
the appeal of assessee is partly allowed for statistical purposes in terms of
our above observations.
111 ITA NO. 5924/Del/2012 (Giesecke & Devrient India Pvt. Ltd.) Order
pronounced in the open court on 23.08.2018 Sd/- Sd/-
        (PRAMOD KUMAR)                   (SUDHANSHU SRIVASTAVA)
     ACCOUNTANT MEMBER                       JUDICIAL MEMBER
    Dated: 23rd August, 2018
    Copy forwarded to:
    1.  Appellant
    2.  Respondent
    3.  CIT
    4.  CIT(Appeals)
    5.  DR: ITAT
                         TRUE COPY
                                                 ASSISTANT REGISTRAR
                                                  ITAT NEW DELHI
objection with verification of such claim. In terms of the above, we direct
the AO to verify and allow the claim of the Assessee regarding granting full
credit of advance tax of Rs.20,698,500/- paid by the Assessee and also short
credit of tax deducted at source of Rs.15,01,872/-. 4.0 In the final result,
the appeal of assessee is partly allowed for statistical purposes in terms of
our above observations.
111 ITA NO. 5924/Del/2012 (Giesecke & Devrient India Pvt. Ltd.) Order
pronounced in the open court on 23.08.2018 Sd/- Sd/-
        (PRAMOD KUMAR)                   (SUDHANSHU SRIVASTAVA)
     ACCOUNTANT MEMBER                       JUDICIAL MEMBER
    Dated: 23rd August, 2018
    Copy forwarded to:
    1.  Appellant
    2.  Respondent
    3.  CIT
    4.  CIT(Appeals)
                   Date of Pronouncement         23.08.2018
                                     ORDER
PER SUDHANSHU SRIVASTAVA, J.M.
This present appeal by the assessee is preferred against the Final Assessment
Order dated 18.09.2012 passed under section 144C read with section 143(3) of
the Income Tax Act, 1961 (hereinafter called "the Act").
2.0 Brief facts of the case are that the assessee is a wholly owned subsidiary
of Giesecke & Devrient GmBH("G&D GmBH") and is engaged in the business of
trading of Currency Verification and Processing Systems ("CVPS") and
assembling and distribution of SIM cards to the telecommunication service 2
ITA NO. 5924/Del/2012 (Giesecke & Devrient India Pvt. Ltd.) providers.
Further, the company is also engaged in providing software services to G&D
GmBH.
2.1 The return of income for year was filed declaring an income of
Rs.1,89,362/-. Subsequently, the return was revised declaring an income of RS.
3,34,31,113/-. Since the Assessee had entered into international transactions,
reference was made to the Transfer Pricing Officer ("TPO") to determine the
Arm's Length Price (ALP) of the international transactions. Details of the
transactions undertaken by the Assessee are as under:-
           S. NO.   NATURE OF TRANSACTION                        AMOUNT            (In
objection with verification of such claim. In terms of the above, we direct
the AO to verify and allow the claim of the Assessee regarding granting full
credit of advance tax of Rs.20,698,500/- paid by the Assessee and also short
credit of tax deducted at source of Rs.15,01,872/-. 4.0 In the final result,
the appeal of assessee is partly allowed for statistical purposes in terms of
our above observations.
111 ITA NO. 5924/Del/2012 (Giesecke & Devrient India Pvt. Ltd.) Order
pronounced in the open court on 23.08.2018 Sd/- Sd/-
        (PRAMOD KUMAR)                   (SUDHANSHU SRIVASTAVA)
     ACCOUNTANT MEMBER                       JUDICIAL MEMBER
    Dated: 23rd August, 2018
    Copy forwarded to:
    1.  Appellant
    2.  Respondent
    3.  CIT
    4.  CIT(Appeals)
                   Date of Pronouncement         23.08.2018
                                     ORDER
PER SUDHANSHU SRIVASTAVA, J.M.
This present appeal by the assessee is preferred against the Final Assessment
Order dated 18.09.2012 passed under section 144C read with section 143(3) of
the Income Tax Act, 1961 (hereinafter called "the Act").
2.0 Brief facts of the case are that the assessee is a wholly owned subsidiary
of Giesecke & Devrient GmBH("G&D GmBH") and is engaged in the business of
trading of Currency Verification and Processing Systems ("CVPS") and
assembling and distribution of SIM cards to the telecommunication service 2
ITA NO. 5924/Del/2012 (Giesecke & Devrient India Pvt. Ltd.) providers.
Further, the company is also engaged in providing software services to G&D
GmBH.
2.1 The return of income for year was filed declaring an income of
Rs.1,89,362/-. Subsequently, the return was revised declaring an income of RS.
3,34,31,113/-. Since the Assessee had entered into international transactions,
reference was made to the Transfer Pricing Officer ("TPO") to determine the
Arm's Length Price (ALP) of the international transactions. Details of the
transactions undertaken by the Assessee are as under:-
           S. NO.   NATURE OF TRANSACTION                        AMOUNT            (In
objection with verification of such claim. In terms of the above, we direct
the AO to verify and allow the claim of the Assessee regarding granting full
credit of advance tax of Rs.20,698,500/- paid by the Assessee and also short
credit of tax deducted at source of Rs.15,01,872/-. 4.0 In the final result,
the appeal of assessee is partly allowed for statistical purposes in terms of
our above observations.
111 ITA NO. 5924/Del/2012 (Giesecke & Devrient India Pvt. Ltd.) Order
pronounced in the open court on 23.08.2018 Sd/- Sd/-
        (PRAMOD KUMAR)                   (SUDHANSHU SRIVASTAVA)
     ACCOUNTANT MEMBER                       JUDICIAL MEMBER
    Dated: 23rd August, 2018
    Copy forwarded to:
    1.  Appellant
    2.  Respondent
    3.  CIT
    4.  CIT(Appeals)
                   Date of Pronouncement         23.08.2018
                                     ORDER
PER SUDHANSHU SRIVASTAVA, J.M.
This present appeal by the assessee is preferred against the Final Assessment
Order dated 18.09.2012 passed under section 144C read with section 143(3) of
the Income Tax Act, 1961 (hereinafter called "the Act").
2.0 Brief facts of the case are that the assessee is a wholly owned subsidiary
of Giesecke & Devrient GmBH("G&D GmBH") and is engaged in the business of
trading of Currency Verification and Processing Systems ("CVPS") and
assembling and distribution of SIM cards to the telecommunication service 2
ITA NO. 5924/Del/2012 (Giesecke & Devrient India Pvt. Ltd.) providers.
Further, the company is also engaged in providing software services to G&D
GmBH.
2.1 The return of income for year was filed declaring an income of
Rs.1,89,362/-. Subsequently, the return was revised declaring an income of RS.
3,34,31,113/-. Since the Assessee had entered into international transactions,
reference was made to the Transfer Pricing Officer ("TPO") to determine the
Arm's Length Price (ALP) of the international transactions. Details of the
transactions undertaken by the Assessee are as under:-
           S. NO.   NATURE OF TRANSACTION                        AMOUNT            (In
                                                                 INR)
             1.     Import   of    CVPS       Machines     and 32,65,84,552
                    spare         parts        ("Distribution
                    Function")
2\. Import of Raw Material for SIM 11,97,70,998 Card ("Assembly Function")
3\. Software Development 8,93,34,164
4\. Sale of SIM Cards 4,94,72,539
5\. Import of Capital Equipment 2,22,07,884
6\. Provision of Installation Services 93,23,193
7\. Service Expenses 1,11,21,465
8\. Commission Expenses 48,84,400
objection with verification of such claim. In terms of the above, we direct
the AO to verify and allow the claim of the Assessee regarding granting full
credit of advance tax of Rs.20,698,500/- paid by the Assessee and also short
credit of tax deducted at source of Rs.15,01,872/-. 4.0 In the final result,
the appeal of assessee is partly allowed for statistical purposes in terms of
our above observations.
111 ITA NO. 5924/Del/2012 (Giesecke & Devrient India Pvt. Ltd.) Order
pronounced in the open court on 23.08.2018 Sd/- Sd/-
        (PRAMOD KUMAR)                   (SUDHANSHU SRIVASTAVA)
     ACCOUNTANT MEMBER                       JUDICIAL MEMBER
    Dated: 23rd August, 2018
    Copy forwarded to:
    1.  Appellant
    2.  Respondent
    3.  CIT
    4.  CIT(Appeals)
                   Date of Pronouncement         23.08.2018
                                     ORDER
PER SUDHANSHU SRIVASTAVA, J.M.
This present appeal by the assessee is preferred against the Final Assessment
Order dated 18.09.2012 passed under section 144C read with section 143(3) of
the Income Tax Act, 1961 (hereinafter called "the Act").
2.0 Brief facts of the case are that the assessee is a wholly owned subsidiary
of Giesecke & Devrient GmBH("G&D GmBH") and is engaged in the business of
trading of Currency Verification and Processing Systems ("CVPS") and
assembling and distribution of SIM cards to the telecommunication service 2
ITA NO. 5924/Del/2012 (Giesecke & Devrient India Pvt. Ltd.) providers.
Further, the company is also engaged in providing software services to G&D
GmBH.
2.1 The return of income for year was filed declaring an income of
Rs.1,89,362/-. Subsequently, the return was revised declaring an income of RS.
3,34,31,113/-. Since the Assessee had entered into international transactions,
reference was made to the Transfer Pricing Officer ("TPO") to determine the
Arm's Length Price (ALP) of the international transactions. Details of the
transactions undertaken by the Assessee are as under:-
           S. NO.   NATURE OF TRANSACTION                        AMOUNT            (In
                                                                 INR)
             1.     Import   of    CVPS       Machines     and 32,65,84,552
                    spare         parts        ("Distribution
                    Function")
2\. Import of Raw Material for SIM 11,97,70,998 Card ("Assembly Function")
3\. Software Development 8,93,34,164
4\. Sale of SIM Cards 4,94,72,539
5\. Import of Capital Equipment 2,22,07,884
6\. Provision of Installation Services 93,23,193
7\. Service Expenses 1,11,21,465
8\. Commission Expenses 48,84,400
objection with verification of such claim. In terms of the above, we direct
the AO to verify and allow the claim of the Assessee regarding granting full
credit of advance tax of Rs.20,698,500/- paid by the Assessee and also short
credit of tax deducted at source of Rs.15,01,872/-. 4.0 In the final result,
the appeal of assessee is partly allowed for statistical purposes in terms of
our above observations.
111 ITA NO. 5924/Del/2012 (Giesecke & Devrient India Pvt. Ltd.) Order
pronounced in the open court on 23.08.2018 Sd/- Sd/-
        (PRAMOD KUMAR)                   (SUDHANSHU SRIVASTAVA)
     ACCOUNTANT MEMBER                       JUDICIAL MEMBER
    Dated: 23rd August, 2018
    Copy forwarded to:
    1.  Appellant
    2.  Respondent
    3.  CIT
    4.  CIT(Appeals)
