Delhi High Court
Rob Mathys India Pvt. Ltd. vs Synthes Ag Chur on 29 May, 1997
Author: S Kapoor
Bench: R Lahoti, S Kapoor
ORDER S.N. Kapoor, J.
1\. These two FAOs arise out of a collaboration agreement between predecessor-
in-interest respondent No. 2 and promoters of the appellant Company for
formation of appellant-company in India and revocation of the agreement and
withdrawal of implied consent to use Trade Marks by successors of a Swiss
partnership firm which entered into the collaboration agreement
plaintiff/respondent No. 2 and proprietors of unregistered Trade Mark
"AO/ASIF" and registered device and the word "Synthes" Trade Marks.
The plaintiff/respondents have filed two suits - one for "passing off action"
and the other for "infringement action".
In I.A. 3420/93 in Suit No. 709/93 for passing off action, learned Single
Judge passed an injunction order restraining the appellants from
manufacturing, selling, offering for sale and advertising surgical instruments
and orthopedic implants one under the unregistered trade mark A.O./ASIF or
device mark or any other similar mark as is likely to cause confusion,
deception or may amount to passing off the goods of the defendants for those
the trade mark till the cancellation of the collaboration agreement. Now, the
appellant cannot be allowed to claim these trade marks as its own on the basis
of the aforesaid user. However, the High Court cannot continuance the user of
these trade marks by the appellant in the aforesaid circumstances and we
disapprove the attempt of the appellant to continue to bask in the warmth and
make illicit profit from a reputation built by plaintiff/respondent No. 2
elsewhere, after the cancellation of the agreement. This is necessity of
commercial morality and a necessary to protect the interests of Indian users,
i.e. public in general for, same products originating from two difference
sources cannot be allowed to be sold under the same trade name and trade mark.
Public interest, national economic interest as well as commercial morality are
the predominant factors which are prevailing with us while deciding these
FAOs. No doubt, the appellants are likely to suffer a setback and their
efforts during the last 16 years are also likely to go waste but that is the
bargain of collaboration agreement entered upon by them. It is also notable
that the appellants have not paid even the admitted amounts for the material,
deception or may amount to passing off the goods of the defendants for those
of the plaintiffs.
On I.A. No. 3419/93 in Suit No. 708/93 for infringement action, learned Single
Judge passed similar order restraining the appellants from using the
registered trade mark "Synthes" or any other similar mark amounting to
infringement of the trade mark causing confusion or deception or amounting to
passing off.
F.A.O. No. 192/96 has been filed against the injunction order on I.A. No.
3419/93 in Suit No. 709/93 in infringement action, while F.A.O. No. 193/96
relates to I.A. No. 3420/ 93 in Suit No. 708/93, in passing off action.
Undisputed/unchallenged facts common to both the matters 2.1. In so far as
factual matrix is concerned, one Robert Mathys, a Swiss mechanical engineer,
is said to be the force in development of surgical instruments and orthopedic
implants, etc. made of special steels and formation of the Association of
Study of Internal Fixation (AO/ASIF) as well as Synthes A. G. Chur
plaintiff/respondent No. 1. Robert Mathys along with his son Renauld Mathys
founded a partnership firm M/s. Robert Mathys Company in Bettlach Switzerland
(the predecessor in interest of respondent No. 2) in 1946. In 1958 they
entered the field of the development and manufacture of machinery and
apparatus including surgical instruments and orthopedic implants and similar
other components made of special steels. On 15th April 1978, the firm entered
into a collaboration agreement with N. P. Dhawan and R. M. Dhawan, proprietors
of the appellant Company. On 20-4-1990 M/s. Robert Mathys Company was
converted into a corporate body and Mathys Limited Bettlach R. 2 came to be
incorporated.
2.2. In 1958 the Association of Study of Internal Fixation (ASIF) was founded
with the object of studying internal fixation and its bio-mechanical
prerequisites and pitfalls relating to regaining of the complete function of
injured limbs by anatomic reduction, stable fixation and early mobilization.
These two letters 'AO' of the trade mark (unregistered) are the acronyms
formed from initial letters of two German words 'Arbits genunis schatt" and
"osteosynthes" while the word "ASIF" is acronym formed from the English words
"Association for study of Internal Fixation" and AO/ASIF is also the name of
the Swiss trust which owns almost all the shares in "synthes AG CHUR"
plaintiff/respondent No. 1. In 1960 the founders of AO and ASIF established AG
Chur respondent No. 1 for the manufacturing marketing of a complete surgical
armamentarium with the hope that respondent No. 1 would eventually provide
funds for research etc. During 1960 to 1963 A. G. Chur R. 1 granted the right
of manufacture and sale of surgical instruments and implants exclusively to
three firms including M/s. Robert Mathys Company along with two other firms.
But in 1963 Respondent No. 1 Synthes AG Chur granted exclusive licence in
favour of M/s. Robert Mathys company to use the trade marks, trade names
Logos, symbols of Synthes AG Chur in respect of the entire territories of Asia
(including India), Australia and New Zealand. According to a contract
effective as of January 1, 1992 between Synthes AG CHUR, is licenser and
Mathys AG Bettlach, as licenser, Mathys AG Bettlach also has the exclusive
right to use Synthes marks, in connection with the manufacturing use and sale
of Synthes products in certain territories including the territory of India.
2.3 Synthes AG Chur obtained registration of its AO/ASIF trade mark in Great
Britain, Northern Ireland, Switzerland, United State between 31st January,
1973 to 25th January, 1977.
2.4 The "Synthes" device trade mark was registered vide Registration No.
252074 dated 4-10-68 and it was renewed from time to time. Similarly, the
"Synthes" word trade mark was registered on 2-5-1972 vide registration No.
2799001 and has been renewed from time to time. Both are registered in the
name of Synthes A. G. Chur Respondent/plaintiff No. 1.
2.5 Robert Mathys and his son Renauld Mathys on one side and N. P. Dhawan and
his brother R. M. Dhawan and other entered into collaboration agreement on
15th April, 1977. They formed the appellant/defendant company Rob Mathys
(India) Pvt. Ltd. with effect from 24th November, 1978, having equity
investment to the extent of 60% and two of the Mathys to the extent of 40%.
Two of the Mathys were also appointed as Directors in January, 1979. The
defendant company installed its factory at Jaipur and started production using
the aforesaid trade marks in dispute in 1979 and thus carrying out the
manufacturing of the orthopedic implants and surgical instruments and trading
activities from 1979 till date. The appellant company have been manufacturing
and marketing its goods in India and using trade mark in dispute with the
"permission of the plaintiffs on account of his financial and technological
collaboration between plaintiff No. 2 and the defendants" as has been put by
learned Counsel for the appellant. The collaboration agreement was initially
for 10 years from 15th April, 1977 and that period had expired. However, the
parties, it appears, continued to act upon the said agreement till it was
specifically sought to be canceled by letter dated 24-6-1992 and legal notice
dated 12th November, 1992 and Public Notice.
Disputes between the parties 3.1 In short, according to the case of the
respondents, Clause 11 of the Collaboration agreement related to future Trade
Marks and did not cover existing Trade Marks, including the mark Synthes
device and word mark "Synthes". Further by virtue of the said Clause 11, no
sub-licensee was granted in favour of the appellant company to use the
existing Trade Marks of respondent No. 1, including the Synthes device and
word mark "Synthes". Robert Mathys Company (predecessor of respondent No. 2)
prior to incorporation of Rob Mathys India Pvt. Ltd., the appellant had been
carrying on large business in the manufacturing and sales of surgical products
and orthopedic implants in Europe and elsewhere. They have carried out both
the function of export of goods manufactured by them under the Trade Marks in
question as well as other Trade Marks from Switzerland into India and
advertising, promoting and offering them for sale, packaging them and selling
them directly to the customers. In most cases finished goods manufactured by
respondent No. 2 in Switzerland and bearing the Trade Mark in question have
been imported into India by the appellant. In some cases, semi-finished goods
and raw materials have been imported into India by the appellant for
conversion into finished goods in terms of the collaboration agreement. The
value of the goods imported and manufactured by the appellant was rupees 2.4
crores and rupees 61 lakhs respectively. Thus, the Trade Marks were
continuously used into India by the respondents. Respondent No. 2 merely
granted the bare privilege to use the Trade Mark in question, as such a
gratuitous licence was granted. Four reasons have been given to revoke the
licence. Firstly, failure of the appellant to pay a colossal sum of rupees 3.5
crores for the finished and semi-finished goods and raw material supplied to
it by respondent No. 2; secondly, numerous complaints received by them from
hospital and other parties in India about sub-standard qualities of the goods
supplied by the appellant bearing Trade Marks in question; thirdly, dispute
relating to shares and fourthly, non-payment of a sum of Rs. 1,72,767/- for
supply of machinery and capital goods along with interest at the rate of 4 per
cent. Consequently, the collaboration agreement was cancelled by letter dated
24th June, 1992 and legal notice 12th November, 1992 coupled with Public
Notice dated 15th November, 1992 published in "The Hindustan Times". The trade
mark in dispute has been continuously advertised by the defendant/appellant
for the last 17 years with their permission. The plaintiff have revoked their
permission. The defendant/appellant company has no right to use the trade
marks in dispute.
3.2 In response to the said contentions of the plaintiff/respondents it is
contended that proprietary rights in a trade mark whether registered or
unregistered could only be acquired by its user in India. Registration by
itself does not create any right. The plaintiffs/ respondents have neither
used trade mark in India nor do they have any right or property therein.
Hence, they could not have possibly transferred any such right to the
defendant in 1979 or afterwards. Besides an unregistered trade mark is neither
assignable nor transferable under Section 38 of Trade Mark and Merchandise
Act. The appellant company was and is willing to abide by the collaboration
agreement. Suits have not been filed by duly authorised persons, and as such
not maintainable in view of Section 28 FERA and 79 of the Act.
4\. We have heard partie's Counsel at length and gone through the record. We
propose to deal with pleas and arguments point wise as and when they crop in
proper sequence. Accordingly, at first we propose to deal with pleas and
arguments advanced relating to jurisdiction, scope of Section 10 of Delhi High
Court Acts, guidelines on granting ad interim injunction, and importance of
public interest in such matters, before we take up points relating to
authority to institute suits, effects of revocation of collaboration
agreement, registration of trade marks, user by the appellant and its effect
on right to trade marks, conduct of appellant and other incidental points,
before reaching any conclusion.
Territorial Jurisdiction In so far as the question of territorial jurisdiction
is concerned, Section 20 of the CPC provides for a suit being instituted in a
Court within the local limits of whose jurisdiction the defendant or each of
the defendants or one of the defendants, actually or voluntarily resides, or
carries on business, or works for personal gains (subject to leave of the
Court one of the defendants only resides within the jurisdiction of the Court)
where the causes of action wholly or in part arise.
Seeking the heading of Section 20 "Other suits to be instituted where
defendants reside or cause of action arises", ordinarily suit not being a suit
for compensation for wrong done to the person or movable property should be
instituted in a Court within the local limits of whose jurisdiction the
defendant resides. However, in certain cases a suit could be filed in places
where cause of action wholly or in part arises but in case of several
defendants, though the suit could be filed at a place where one of the
defendants resides, but it is very apparent from illustrations 'b' to Section
20 that in each of these cases as the non-resident defendant objects the suit
cannot proceed without the leave of the Court. In the case in hand the last
part of the illustration 'b' to Section 20 is not applicable for there is
single defendant and it is apparent from the plaint that cause of action did
arise in Delhi. Consequently, Delhi Court will have jurisdiction.
Scope of Section 10 of Delhi High Court Act One of the arguments advanced is
that this Court must not interfere with the impugned discretionary orders in
these two cases while hearing the appeal under Section 10 of the Delhi High
Court Act. The learned Counsel for the appellant referred to numerous cases -
(a) Shah Babulal Khimji v. Jayaben B. Kania, .
(b) Wander Ltd. v. Antox India P. Ltd., 1990 (Supp) SCC 727 - Para 14 at p.
733.
(c) N. R. Dongre v. Whirlpool Corporation, 1996(6) Scale (Vol. VI No. 1)
276-Para 8 at pp. 279 to 280 and para 17 at p. 285.
(d) Haridas Mondal v. Sahadeb Mondal, .
(e) M/s. Apsara Hotels (P) Ltd. v. M/s. Rajputana Hotels (P) Ltd., AIR 1981
NOC 21 (Raj.) p. 96.
(f) GTC Industries Ltd. v. ITC Ltd., .
(g) Chinnamma v. N. Nagaraja, .
In Shah Babulal Khimji v. Jayaben B. Kania Supreme Court observed in para 119
as under.
119\. ... (1) That the Trial Judge being a senior Court with vast experience
of various branches of law occupying a very high status should be trusted to
pass discretionary or interlocutory orders with due regard to the well settled
principles of civil justice. Thus, any discretion exercised or routine orders
passed by the Trial Judge in the course of the suit which may cause some
inconvenience or, to some extent prejudice one party or the other cannot be
treated as a judgment otherwise the appellate Court (Division Bench) will be
flooded with appeals from all kinds of orders passed by the Trial Judge. The
Courts must give sufficient allowance to the Trial Judge and raise a
presumption that any discretionary order which he passes must be presumed to
be correct unless it is ex-facie legally erroneous or cause grave and
substantial injustice."
In Wander Ltd. v. Antox India P. Ltd. (1990 (Suppl.) SCC 727), following
observations were made by the Supreme Court in para 14 :
14\. ".... In such appeals, the appellate Court will not interfere with the
exercise of discretion of the Court of first instance and substitute its own
discretion except where the discretion has been shown to have been exercised
arbitrarily, or capriciously or perversely or where the Court had ignored the
settled principles of law regulating grant of refusal of interlocutory
injunctions. An appeal against exercise of discretion is said to be an appeal
on principle. Appellate Court will not reassess the material and seek to reach
a conclusion different from the one reached by the court below if the one
reached by that Court was reasonably possible on the material. The appellate
Court would normally not be justified in interfering with the exercise of
discretion under appeal solely on the ground that if it had considered the
matter at the trial stage, it would have come to a contrary conclusion. If the
discretion has been exercised by the Trial Court reasonably and in a judicial
manner the fact that the appellate Court would have taken a different view may
not justify interference with the Trial Court's exercise of discretion. After
referring to these principles Gajendragadkar, J. in Printers (Mysore) Private
Ltd. v. Pothan Joseph : (SCR 721) "... These principles are well established,
but as has been observed by Viscount Simon in Charles Osenton & Co. v.
Jhanaton ... the law as to the reversal by a Court of appeal of an order made
by a Judge below in the exercise of his discretion is well established, and
any difficulty that arises is due only to the application of well settled
principles in an individual case."
The propositions of law propounded in these cases are not under challenge. We
will just like to say that due deference must be shown to the learned Single
Judge in such like appeals. After all, the learned Single Judge is having vast
experience of various branches of law and occupies a very high status. Learned
Single Judge has looked into the matter in great details and has done his best
to achieve a just result according to his perception also based on the
submissions of the Counsel for the parties. Consequently the order passed by
learned Single Judge should not be lightly interfered with. However, if the
attention of the learned Single Judge has not been drawn to certain facets of
the matter, or though the attention was drawn, but learned Single Judge,
either did not feel it necessary to go far enough, due to inequitable conduct
of the party in an appeal under Section 10 of the Delhi High Court Act a
Division Bench is not debarred to have a second look at those facts and facets
of the matter. It parties or their Counsel could not draw attention of learned
Single Judge towards certain facts and facets and the tentative or final
conclusions are apparently based on insufficient premises, a division bench,
while hearing an appeal would be justified to have a second look over the
matter and to form a different opinion on the basis of the facts established
by material on record and on established legal propositions.
Guidelines on granting Interlocutory Injunction The Supreme Court laid down
certain guidelines for granting of an interlocutory injunction during the
pendency of legal proceedings in para 4 of Wander Ltd. v. Antox India P. Ltd.
(supra) and paras 42 & 43 of Gujarat Bottling Co. Ltd. v. Coca Cola Co.
((1994) SCC 4). To quote from the letter case :
42\. "In the matter of grant of injunction, the practice in England is that
where a contract is negative in nature, or contains an express negative
stipulation, breach of it may be restrained by injunction and injunction is
normally granted as a matter of course, even though the remedy is equitable
and thus in principle a discretionary one and a defendant cannot resist an
injunction simply on the ground that observance of the contract is burdensome
to him and its breach would cause little or no prejudice to the plaintiff and
that breach of an express negative stipulation can be restrained even though
the plaintiff cannot show that the breach will cause him any loss. (See :
Chitty on Contracts, 27th Edn., Vol. I, General Principles, paragraph 27-040
at p. 1310; Halsbury's Laws of England, 4th Edn., Vol. 24, paragraph 992.) In
India Section 42 of the Specific Relief Act. 1963 prescribes that
notwithstanding anything contained in Clause (e) of Section 41, where a
contract comprises an affirmative agreement to do a certain act, coupled with
a negative agreement, express or implied, not to do a certain act, the
circumstances that the Court is unable to compel specific performance of the
affirmative agreement shall not preclude it from granting an injunction to
perform the negative agreement. This is subject to the proviso that the
plaintiff has not failed to perform the contract so far as it is binding on
him. The Court is, however, not bound to grant an injunction in every case and
an injunction to enforce a negative covenant would be refused if it would
indirectly compel the employee either to idleness or to serve the employer
(See : Ehrman v. Batholomew, N. S. Golikari at p. 389.)
43\. The grant of an interlocutory injunction during the pendency of legal
proceedings is a matter requiring the exercise of discretion of the Court.
While exercising the discretion, the Court applies the following tests - (i)
whether the plaintiff has a prima facie case; (ii) whether the balance of
convenience is in favour of the plaintiff; and (iii) whether the plaintiff
would suffer an irreparable injury if his prayer for interlocutory injunction
is disallowed. The decision whether or not to grant an interlocutory
injunction has to be taken at a time when the existence of the legal right
assailed by the plaintiff and its alleged violation are both contested and
uncertain and remain uncertain till they are established at the trial on
evidence. Relief by way of interlocutory injunction is granted to mitigate the
risk of injustice to the plaintiff during the period before that uncertainty
could be resolved. The object of the interlocutory injunction is to protect
the plaintiff against injury by violation of his right for which he could not
be adequately compensated in damages recoverable in the action if the
uncertainty were resolved in his favour at the trial. The need for such
protection has, however, to be weighed against the corresponding need of the
defendant to be protected against injury resulting from his having been
prevented from exercising his own legal rights for which he could not be
adequately compensated. The Court must weight one need against another and
determine where the "balance of convenience" lies. (See : Wander Ltd. v. Antox
India (P) Ltd., (SCC at pp 731-32)). In order to protect the defendant while
granting an interlocutory injunction in his favour the Court can require the
plaintiff to furnish an undertaking so that the defendant can be adequately
compensated if the uncertainty were resolved in his favour at the trial."
Importance of interest of consumers and general public and conduct of the
parties/appellant in such matters.
It is widely accepted by the Courts that in passing off and infringement
actions, the interest of general public as well as the interest of consumers
of the goods in question are of paramount importance. The learned Counsel for
the respondent in this regard referred to following authorities :
(a) GCT v. Laurie March, (1973) RPC 432 (p. 434).
(b) LRC International v. Lilla Edets, (1973) RPC 560 (p. 564).
(c) Simatul Chemical Industries Pvt. Ltd. v. Citabul Ltd., .
(d) M/s. Hindustan Pencils Pvt. Ltd. v. M/s. India Stationery Products Co., .
(e) Kirloskar Diesel Recon Pvt. Ltd. v. Kirloskar Proprietory Ltd., AIR 1996
Bom. 146 - Para 10 at pp. 160 and 161.
In GCT (Management) Ltd. v. The Laurie Marsh Group Ltd. (supra) following
observations were made :
".... It is inevitably always an important question in cases of this kind
whether or not the public are being confused, because the Court, apart from
deciding the conflict that there is between the parties, has always got to
have the interests of the public in mind and it is highly desirable that in
the field of businesses, as much as it is in the field of trade marks for
goods, the public should be put in a position where they are likely to be
deceived or confused. That, however, is a matter which has finally to be
determined on the final hearing of the action, that is to say, the position as
regards the public.
In M/s. Hindustan Pencils Pvt. Ltd. v. M/s. India Stationery Products Co. &
Anr. , Hon'ble Mr. Justice B. N. Kirpal observed in para 29 as under :
29\. "If an action is taken by the registered owner and no interim injunction
is granted, the effect is that goods bearing the infringement mark or spurious
goods would continue to be sold in the market. After a number of years when
the case is finally disposed of, after trial, and the plaintiff succeeds and
gets permanent injunction then, possibly the plaintiff may also be compensated
by his being awarded damages or an account of profits that sense the non-grant
of the interim injunction would not, ultimately, prejudice the plaintiff for
he may be compensated with payment of money but during this period when the
defendant is allowed to continue to infringe the intellectual property it is
the consumer or the purchaser who alone suffers and who ultimately cannot be
compensated. Therefore, in order to curb the means of manufacture, production
and sale of spurious goods and the blatant violation of intellectual property
it will be proper for the Court to take into consideration the interest of the
general public. In this regard reference may usefully be made to the following
observations of Mccarthy at page 346, para 30.21 which deals with the
protection of third parties :
"Some Courts also consider the necessity of protecting third parties. In trade
mark infringement cases, "third parties" means the buying public. If the
equities are closely balanced, the right of the public not to be deceived or
confused may turn the scales in favour of a preliminary injunction."
Further, in para 32 again, Hon'ble Mr. Justice B. N. Kirpal took the view that
"delay or laches may defeat the claim of the damages or rendition of account
but the injunction should not be refused because it is in the interest of
general public." In this regard his Lordship observed as under :
"... Nevertheless, if the Court comes to the conclusion that prejudice is
likely to be caused to the general public who may be misled into buying the
goods manufactured by the defendant thinking them to be the goods of the
plaintiff then an injunction must be issued. The Court may, in appropriate
cases, allow some time to the defendants to sell of their existing stock but
an injunction should not be denied."
The above said judgment was followed by Bombay High Court as well in Kirloskar
Diesel Recon Pvt. Ltd. and Anr. v. Kirloskar Proprietary & Ors. (AIR 1996 Bom
146).
In the case in hand, it is apparent that 10 years period of the collaboration
agreement dated 15th April 1978 has expired long ago and it has also been
revoked as well by notice. Thus, the licence to use the trade marks in both
the actions had ceased to exist. The principle being that there could only be
one mark, one source and one proprietor. There cannot be two origins as the
registered trade mark as well as the unregistered trade mark both could be
used only under the collaboration agreement by the defendant/appellants. The
appellant/ company is obviously not the owner. They cannot be allowed to use
the registered trade mark device and the word "Synthes" and the trade mark
"AO/ASIF" after the revocation of the collaboration agreement. Is is notable
that the revocation had taken place on account of admitted failure of the
appellant to pay a colossal sum of Rs. 3.5 crores for the finished and semi-
finished goods and raw material supplied to it by respondent No. 2 apart from
non-payment of a sum of Rs. 1,72,667 for supply of machinery and capital goods
along with interest at the rate of 4% per annum thereon. The respondents have
also produced numerous letters on record complaining against substandard
quality of the products supplied by the appellant.
In view of the above factors, the learned Single Judge was absolutely
justified in taking the view that once the Agreement dated 15th April, 1977
was cancelled, the defendant would cease to have any right at all to use the
marks and if the defendant is permitted to pass off his implants and
instruments etc. for the products approved by respondent No. 1 and
manufactured and supplied throughout the world by respondent No. 2. Innocent
persons coming to the hospital for the bone surgery would be put to
irreparable loss and prejudice. However, in this respect, there could be two
points of view-one, that the complaints could be promoted and biased ones and
therefore we may not be very much justified in saying that the goods are
substandard specially in view of the general bias in favour of imported goods;
secondly, this is not the stage where we should make any categorical
statement. Even if we ignore this aspect, these precious implants and medical
instruments originating from two different sources would certainly cause
confusion on account of not only slight deceptive similarity but total
similarity in view of the user in the instant case. This would not be in
public interest for, the public is entitled to know the source of origin of
such implants and medical instruments to appreciate the distinction of the two
products based on the reputation of the two origins and the experience of
medical experts in respect of medical implants and instruments originating
from two different sources. This by itself is a reason to reject these two
appeals.
Authority to institute suit and sign and verify pleadings
5\. So far as objection about the maintainability of the suit on the ground
that the two suits have not been filed by legally authorized persons in terms
of Section 28 of the Foreign Exchange Regulation Act (FERA) 19/3 is concerned,
the arguments advanced by Dr. K. S. Sidhu are based on the following plea in
memo of appeal read with Section 28 of the FERA.
"That the learned Single Judge failed to appreciate that R. J. Hartman, the
alleged power of attorney holder on behalf of both the Swiss Companies does
not have any valid power on behalf any of the two. He cannot be allowed under
law to sign and verify the plaint on behalf of the Swiss Companies and to file
a suit."
It is notable both the plaintiffs Synthes AG Chur and Mathys Ltd. Bettlach are
companies other than banking companies which have not been incorporated under
any law in force in India. The submission of the learned Counsel is that since
two plaintiff companies are foreign companies and the suit has been filed by
Mr. R. J. Hartman without obtaining permission of Reserve Bank of India, the
two suits were not competent in view of the aforesaid provision. Except saying
that such factual issues ought to be raised before the Trial Court at the
appropriate time and such issues ought not to be brought at this stage before
the Appellate Court, the argument has not been replied by the respondents.
Before the learned Single Judge, the questions about proof of Power of
Attorney with reference to Section 78B of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 as
well as about violation of the provisions of Foreign Exchange Regulation Act
were raised and argued. But the learned Single Judge did not feel it necessary
in the light of the attitude of the defendant/appellant to go into these
aspects of the matter. In ordinary course we might have also not gone into
these technical objections but for the fact that it is alleged that the
representation by R. G. Hartman being void, plaints in the suits cannot be
taken note of.
Before proceeding further, we would refer to sub-sections (1) & (2) of Section
28 of the FERA, 1973. They read as under -
28\. Restrictions on the appointment of certain persons and companies as
agents or technical or management advisers in India :- (1) Without prejudice
to the provisions of Section 47 and notwithstanding anything contained in any
other provision of this Act or the Companies Act, 1956, a person resident
outside India (whether a citizen of India or not) or a person who is not a
citizen of India but is resident in India, or a company (other than a banking
company) which is not incorporated under any law in force in India or in which
the non-resident interest is more than forty per cent or any branch of such
company, shall not, except with the general or special permission of the
Reserve Bank.
(a) act, or accept appointment, as agent in India of any person or company, in
the trading or commercial transaction of such person or company; or
(b) act or accept appointment, as technical or management adviser in India of
any person or company; or
(c) permit any trade mark, which he or it is entitled to use, to be used by
any person or company for any direct or indirect consideration.
(2) Where any such person or company (including its branch) as is referred to
in sub-section (1) acts or accepts appointment as such agent, or technical
management adviser, or permits the use of any such trade mark, without the
permission of the Reserve Bank, such acting appointment or permission, as the
case may be, shall be void.
Since it is not the case of the respondent companies that they had obtained
any permission of the Reserve Bank to appoint Reynold Hartmann as an agent, an
objection analysis of sub-sections (1), (2) of Section 28 is essential. It
shows as under;
(i) This provision provides a rule and its exception.
(ii) Rule under this provision shall apply -
(a) without any prejudice to Section 47 of the Act, and
(b) notwithstanding anything contained in any other provisions of the FERA or
the Companies Act.
(iii) The rule is that :
(a) a person who is resident outside India.
(b) a person who is not citizen of India but a resident in India; and
(c) a company not being a banking company which is not incorporated in India
or any branch of such a company;
shall ordinarily not act or accept an appointment as agent in India of any
person or company in the trading and commercial transaction of such person or
company.
(iv) The exception is that persons enumerated in (iii) above could act and
accept appointment as an agent in India by any person in the trading and
commercial transaction of such person or company with "the general or special
permission of the Reserve Bank."
Thus, for a person who is not a citizen of India but is resident in India
could be appointed as agent by a foreign company only with the express
permission of the Reserve Bank. Similarly, a person who is citizen as well as
resident of India could act or accept appointment as agent in India of any
person or company in the trading and commercial transaction of a company
incorporated outside India. Obviously, this Section relates to and covers
representation of foreign companies involving foreign exchange for the purpose
appears to be to ensure that Foreign Exchange Regulation Act should not be
violated. This Section does not apply to Indian Companies.
Section 28(2) of the said Act provides the consequences of non-compliance of
the provisions of Section 28(1) and it makes acts as well as the appointment
of persons not having general or special permission of Reserve Bank of India
void. Consequently, an agent or attorney, who is neither a citizen of India
nor resident in India, could not file any suit on behalf of foreign company in
India. Sub-section (3) of Section 28 would not be attracted in the present
case to cure defects for sub-section (3) shall apply to only those agents who
were covered under sub-section (i) at the time of commencement of FERA. We
need not say that the Act came into force in 1973 and amended in 1993.
From the perusal of the documents on record, it appears that neither any copy
of power of attorney in favour of R. G. Hartmann has been filed nor any
certificate of incorporation of Synthes AG Chur and Mathys Bettlach (Pvt.)
Ltd. has been filed as annexure along with the plaint. However, there is an
affidavit of Mr. Rene J. Hartman along with notarized copy of registration of
Mathys AG Bettlach on 20th April, 1990 along with its translated copy. In the
document file of Suit No. 708/93 there is not even a notarized copy of
registration of M/s Synthes AG Chur on record. There is no resolution of any
of the two companies authorizing Director or Managing Director to execute a
power of attorney in favour of Mr. R. J. Hartman.
Order 29 Rule 1 reads as under :-
"1. In suits by or against a corporation, any pleading may be signed and
verified on behalf of the corporation by the secretary or by any director or
other principal officer of the corporation who is able to depose to the facts
of the case."
The said Order 29 Rule 1 does not authorize persons mentioned therein to
institute suits on behalf of the company. It only authorize them to sign and
verify on behalf of the Company. (See Notified Area Committee v. Kidar Nath &
Ors. (AIR 1935 Lahore 345), Seth Kirpal Chand v. The Traders Bank Ltd. (AIR
1954 J&K 45), M/s. Nibro Limited v. National Insurance Co. Ltd. . It is well
settled that under section 29 of the Companies Act expect where express
provision is made that the powers of a company in respect of a particular
matter are to be exercised by the company in its general body meeting, in all
other cases, the Board of Directors are entitled to exercise its powers. The
individual directors have only such powers as are vested in them by the
Memorandum and Articles of Association. However, the question to institute a
suit on behalf of a company, having far-reaching effect, is not a technical
matter. If often affects policy and finance of the company. Thus unless the
power to institute a suit is specifically conferred on a particular Director,
the has no authority to institute a suit on behalf of the company. Needless to
say that such a power can be conferred by the Board of Directors on any person
only by passing a resolution in that regard (See Nibro Ltd. v. National
Insurance Co. Ltd.) (supra). However, where the memorandum and articles of
association of the company confer powers on the Board of Directors to delegate
power for filing a suit or appeal and such power was delegated to a Director
(Marketing) who was further authorised to delegate the aforesaid power and
subsequently the said Director (Marketing) engaged an attorney of the
corporation it might have been held that the appeal or suit filed by the said
attorney is competent. Were any director or managing director of a company has
power to institute suits and legal proceedings which includes power to file
appeals and revisions, no resolution would be necessary if the managing
director or the so authorized director in turn authorizes the Counsel to file
appeal. In absence of the memorandum of association and articles of the
company, and resolution of the Board of Directors power of attorney executed
by "authorized person" to delegate such an authority in favour of R. J.
Hartman, it may prima facie appear that there is some force in the submissions
of Dr. K. S. Sidhu. As regards the second limb of the argument of Dr. K. S.
Sidhu about the applicability of Section 28 of the FERA in absence of any
specific reply one may draw an adverse inference and hold that R. J. Hartman
not being an Indian citizen is not entitled to file suit on behalf of the
respondent/plaintiffs. But it is a question of fact which needs to be pleaded.
If he is not an Indian citizen his appointment as an agent of the plaintiff
companies may be void.
A question arises whether on such a technical plea it would be desirable to
non-suit the plaintiff/respondents at this stage. In ordinary course our
response to the situation could be that these defects are neither sufficient
to reject the applications for injunction in two suits, nor we can approve of
this hyper-technical approach for two reasons; firstly, we must make an
attempt to decide the matter on merits and not on technicalities and secondly,
it is curable defect, See United Bank of India v. Naresh Kumar & Ors. . But if
in view of statutory prohibition of Section 28 representation of R. J. Hartman
is void, then there is no plaint before the Court to grant any relief.
Unfortunately, the appellants have not taken any definite plea in their
written statement in this regard, to enable the respondents to meet and reply
the same. Consequently, at this stage, we leave this point for the decision of
the learned Single Judge, if any specific plea is raised in the written
statement by way of amendment, the plea being mixed of fact and law both and
not purely a legal one.
Collaboration Agreement : its revocation and its effect :
The next argument of the learned Counsel for the appellant is that there is a
collaboration agreement dated 15th April, 1977 entered into by M/s. Robert
Mathys with Dhawans, promoters of the appellant. A Company in India under the
name of Roby Mathys India Private Ltd. with its registered office in the state
of Rajasthan to manufacture and sell orthopedic surgical components and for
internal fixation etc., was not registered. Following Clauses of this
documents are relevant for the purpose of appreciating the contention of the
parties :
"11. In the event of any inventions, patents, copyrights, trade marks or trade
names are acquired either by MATHYS or the proposed company, the same will be
shared by MATHYS and the proposed company without payment of any royalty or
fee from either side.
12\. It is understood and agreed between DHAWANS and MATHYS that this
agreement will be assigned by DHAWANS to the proposed company as soon as
possible. It is understood and agreed that the proposed company will acquire
all the rights of DHAWANS hereunder and will assume all of the duties,
liabilities and obligations of DHAWANS hereunder except such duties,
liabilities and obligations as are by their very nature or otherwise
specifically imposed on DHAWANS hereunder.
13\. In the event of any dispute shall arise in connection with this agreement
or any alleged breach thereof, such dispute or disputes shall be fully and
finally settled by arbitration in accordance with the rules of the
International Chamber of Commerce. It the parties entitled hereunder to
designate the place of arbitration shall not submit such designation in
writing to the other party within two weeks after actual receipt of the
request for arbitration, such party shall be deemed to have waived its right
of designation and the arbitration shall be proceeded at such place as may be
requested by the party requesting arbitration. In the event of any
arbitration, all the costs and expenses of the arbitration shall be in the
discretion of the arbitrators who may award such costs and expenses in such a
matter and against such party as they may think proper. Judgment upon any
award rendered may be entered in any Civil Court in India or any Civil Court
in Switzerland having jurisdiction to entertain it.
14\. This agreement shall continue initially for a period of 10 years and the
parties do their best to extend the period by mutual consultation.
15\. This agreement shall be non-cancelable except in the event of one or more
of the following events :-
(a) Bankruptcy or insolvency of either party.
(b) Any assignment of this agreement except mutually agreed between the
parties.
In the event of the occurrence of either of the foregoing events, involving
the proposed company or MATHYS, the other party shall have the right to cancel
and terminate this agreement upon the giving of written notice to such effect
to the party charged with, or suffering such event. In the event of
termination of expiration of this agreement, DHAWANS or the proposed company
as the case may be shall hand over all the drawings, specifications, dated or
documents etc. received from MATHYS to them.
(a) MATHYS agrees that it will make no similar contract relating to
manufacture and sales of Orthopedic bone-surgical implants and relevant
instruments for internal fixation as well as the prostheses and also hospital
equipment with any body in India while this agreement is in effect.
(b) Similarly DHAWANS agree that they will not cause themselves to the
proposed company to enter into a similar contract relating to manufacture and
sales of Orthopedic bone-surgical implants and relevant instruments for
internal fixation as well as the prostheses and also hospital equipment with
anybody else other than MATHYS while this agreement is in effect.
19\. It is understood between the parties that the ratio of share capital in
the proposed company will be retained by the parties in the same proportion as
far as practicable. It there is any transfer or divest of any share on account
of various contingencies, such transfer will be made to the family members of
the same family and if there is no member in a particular family interested in
buying those shares, the same shall be offered to the subject, of course, to
the law prevailing in the Republic of India.
20\. It is clearly understood that DHAWANS are acting for and on behalf of the
proposed company or wherever the context permits, they are acting for and on
behalf of MATHYS. It is clearly understood between both the parties that this
agreement shall be governed by the approval of the Government of India or any
other Government authority."
There is a subsequent agreement at page 72 by which Clause 19 has been amended
to incorporate as below :-
AGREEMENT "In view of Clause 19 of the agreement of collaboration between M/s.
Rob Mathys, Bettlach and Mr. N. P. Dhawan submitted to the Ministry of
Industry, Govt. of India. This Clause stands amend as stated below :
M/s. Rob Mathys India Pvt. Ltd. shall export the manufactured products only to
Switzerland and Australia and to any other country only with prior and
specific consent of M/s. Rob Mathys, Bettlach, Switzerland."
This documents indicates that there was an agreement between Dhawans and the
two - Mathys Robert and Reynold.
A bare reading of Clauses 14 & 15 of the agreement indicates that in ordinary
course it was non-cancelable for 10 years for two reasons; (a) firstly, it was
initially for a period of 10 years and parties intended to do their best to
extend the period by mutual consultation, (b) Secondly, it was non-cancelable
except in the event of (i) bankruptcy, and (ii) assignment of this agreement.
In such an agreement there is an arbitration Clause to settle disputes arising
out of the agreement, by arbitration in accordance with the rules of the
International Chamber of Commerce in terms of Clause 13.
These two cases have arisen out of the revocation of the agreement not
immediately after 10 years, but after 16 years, but the fact that parties
continued to act upon the collaboration agreement, even after expiry of
initially agreed period of 10 years, leads to an irresistible inference that
the parties had agreed to extend the collaboration agreement for an indefinite
period but not in perpetuity. Consequently, the "non-cancelable" collaboration
agreement became cancelable after expiry of period of initial 10 years.
In so far as "consequence of cancellation of the agreement" is concerned,
Clause 11 of the agreement has to be read to implement the intention of the
parties regarding sharing by both the parties "inventions, patents, copy
rights, trade marks or trade names acquired either by Mathys or the proposed
company without payment of any royalty or fee from other side", along with
later portion of Clause 1. "In the event of the termination of expiration of
this agreement, Dhawans or the proposed company, as the case may be, shall
hand over all the drawings, specifications, dates or documents etc., received
by them from Mathys". This has to be seen further in the light of the
provisions of the Act. Since the agreement does not say that the proposed
company shall not manufacture and deal in the same kind of goods, the
cancellation could not have the effect closing the factory to stop production.
The appellants could continue to manufacture orthopedic implants and surgical
instrument for they cannot be expected to loose their experience and expertise
gained during all these 16 years in absence of any such term.
The fact that parties continued to act upon the collaboration agreement, even
after expiry of initially agreed period of 10 years, leads to an irresistible
inference that the parties agreed to extend the collaboration agreement for an
indefinite period but not in perpetuity. Consequently, the "non-cancelable"
collaboration agreement, became cancelable after expiry of initial period of
10 years.
It appears prima facie that plaintiff/respondent No. 1 has granted an
exclusive license in favour of M/s. Robert Mathys Company to use the trade
marks/trade names/logos/ symbols of plaintiff/respondent No. 1 in connection
with the manufacture and use and sale of the product of respondent No. 1 in
certain territories including territory of India in the year 1958. It has not
been disputed before us that the Robert Mathys Company has been converted into
Mathys Limited Bettlach as successor of Robert Mathys Company. The license has
also not been disputed. But at the same time, no agreement to grant exclusive
license in favour of respondent No. 2 dated 1st January 1992 has been
produced. However, it may be inferred that the initial licence in favour of
respondent No. 2 may be on more or less on permanent basis, for, they
themselves have granted licence to the appellants for a period of 10 years and
indicating that (i) it was non-cancelable (ii) the parties would do their best
to extend the time; and (iii) actually after the expiry of the period of 10
years of the license the parties continue to act on the said license for as
many as six years. Secondly it is also apparent that neither plaintiff No. 1
nor plaintiff No. 2/respondent is manufacturing any goods in India. Few bills,
produced by respondents, relate to 1993 i.e. a period after cancellation of
the collaboration agreement vide letter dated 24th June 1992. Thus, it is
apparent that respondents have neither imported any article manufactured by
them in this country nor directly sold any such goods till 1992. This
substantiates the claim of the appellant about manufacturing and marketing of
the products independently as principal and not as agent of the respondent,
but under a sub-licensed user under the agreement. It is only
plaintiff/respondent 1 who was the proprietor of the unregistered as well as
the registered trade mark and the plaintiff/respondent No. 2 was licensee
thereof.
Prima Facie Facts The contention of the learned Counsel for the appellant Dr.
K. S. Sidhu is that the appellant/company has not acted as agent of respondent
No. 2 or respondent No. 1. All transactions in between the appellant and the
respondent No. 2 were from principal to principal. The business of the
appellant neither was nor is being run on behalf of the respondents. As such,
all the manufacturing and marketing under the name Rob Mathys India (Pvt.)
Ltd. was that of the appellant/company. Therefore, the appellant and appellant
only acquired right, title and interest in the said trade mark in India.
According to the submission of learned Counsel for the respondent, the
collaboration agreement dated 15th April, 1977 related only to future trade
marks and did not cover existing trade marks of respondent No. 1. Respondent
No. 2 granted to the appellant a bare personal privilege to use the trade mark
in question in relation to the goods manufactured by it. As such, the
respondent No. 2 granted a licence in favour of the appellant but the
respondents retained full control over the use of the trade mark, to maintain
the validity of the trade mark by strict quality control and supervision of
the goods manufactured by the appellant and the trade mark of all material
demands indicated connection in the course of trade with the proprietor
thereof being respondent No. 1. Similarly, the use of unregistered trade marks
by the appellant was under licence granted by the proprietor bona fide and
strict control and supervision was used in maintaining the sanctity of the
unregistered mark, by the proprietor.
It is further notable that Clause (v) of Section 2(1) of the Trade Marks Act
which defines the expression trade mark clarifies that when a person gets a
trade mark registered he acquires valuable rights of exclusive user in
connection with the goods in respect of which it is registered and it also
confers another right that registered proprietor of a trade mark can protect
his trade mark by an action for infringement. In cases of unauthorized use of
an unregistered trade mark the proprietor of unregistered trade mark could
only file a suit in passing off action. For success in such an action the
proprietor of unregistered trade mark has to prove that his mark has by user
acquired such a reputation as to become distinctive of its goods so that if it
is used in relation to the goods of any other kind dealt with by him it will
be understood by the trade and public as meaning that the goods are his goods.
In an infringement action to protect a registered trade mark reputation of the
goods mark is not required to be proved for registration of the mark is prima
facie evidence of its validity. Acquisition of proprietary right in any trade
mark whether registered or unregistered is always found to be a question open
for consideration by the Courts.
Law of Trade Mark and relevance of foreign precedents It may be seen that out
trade mark law is primarily based on English law statutory as well as common
law of trade mark prevailing in England. However, everything is not confined
to only English Law. We find seeds of American Law also in our trade mark law.
So a question arises : "How far the English, American, Australian authorities
and judgments are going to help us ?" We need not say that if the provision
has been lifted from English law then the English authorities and judgments
would be very relevant and good guide in interpreting a particular section in
India but if the provision has been lifted from say American law then the
judgment of Courts of USA may provide us a better guidance. However, two facts
more are required to be kept in mind. In India, the entire law of Trade Marks
has not been codified. The 1958 Act is : "An Act to provide for the
registration and better protection of trade marks and for the prevention of
use of fraudulent marks on merchandise". Thus, it does not forbid common law
action arising between the parties out of agreements. Sub-section (2) of
Section 27 of the Act specifically provides : "Nothing in this Act shall be
deemed to affect rights of action against any person for passing off goods as
the goods of another person or the remedies in respect thereof. "When there
are available Indian precedents based on overall context of Indian statutory
provisions, then foreign authorities though not irrelevant yet pale into being
of persuasive value merely. We need not look and follow the English
authorities on these points in face of India authorities. In this regard, it
is desirable to refer to observations made by the Supreme Court in American
Home Products Corporation v. Mac Laboratories Pvt. Ltd. , which reads as under
:
63\. ".... As pointed out by this Court in Foresol v. Oil and Natural Gas
Commission, , in the absence of any binding authority of an Indian Court on a
particular point of law English decisions in which judgments were delivered by
judges held in high repute can be referred to as they are decisions of Courts
of a country from which Indian jurisprudence and a large part of our law is
derived, for they are authorities of high persuasive value to which the Court
may legitimately turn for assistance; but whether the rule laid down in any of
these cases can be applied by our Courts must, however, be judged in the
context of our own laws and legal procedure and the practical realities of
litigation in our country."
But in cases of passing off action English authorities may prevail to a
certain extent for we have borrowed from and followed entire gamut of English
Common Law and precedents of other countries based on common mixture of
English Common Law developed in the light of local and statutory perception
may not be good guide. Of course, the law laid down by the Supreme Court being
law of the land under Article 141 of the Constitution, has to be followed.
Learned Counsel for the respondent referred to numerous cases. We feel that it
is not necessary to refer to all of them and therefore we confine ourselves to
the judgments of the Supreme Court and this Court basically. Many cases out of
those cited at the Bar have already been referred to in this judgment. We have
also avoided to refer to those cases where similarity of trade mark registered
or unregistered, was considered by the Courts for it is totally refund ant in
this case since the appellant does not claim any distinction between the
registered trade marks and the device and word "Synthes" in infringement
action and the words "AO/ASIF" in passing off action and the trade marks used
by it. We also do not fell it necessary to refer to judgments of foreign
countries except where it is felt necessary to clarify a point in the light of
the observations of the Supreme Court.
ownership of registered and unregistered trade marks Considering the rival
contention of the two parties, it is to be seen as to who is the owner of the
trade marks in India. It is notable that from the pleadings in paras 10 and 11
of the plaints in Suit No. 709/93 written statements and replication, it is
evident that the appellant either manufactured or imported goods and marketed
the goods under the disputed trade marks as principal under the collaboration
agreement and marketed them. The appellant itself being manufacturer or
importer, marketed the goods using the disputed Trade Marks since 1979 and
thus, the defendant (not the plaintiffs) has acquired substantial goodwill and
reputation. The plaintiffs have neither imported any of their goods into this
country not nor the plaintiffs have advertised their products in this country.
In replications it is not subsequently asserted that apart from the goods
imported by the appellant any other person also imported the goods. As a
matter of fact, in para 10 of the plaint the sale of products in the past few
years indicated sales of locally manufactured and the sales of imported goods
by the appellant only. As regards the advertisement, in para 10 it was pleaded
that the plaintiff have widely advertised his products under the Trade Mark
"Synthes" by distribution of related literature to surgeons, hospitals and
medical profession and has been regularly holding seminars and
conferences/courses for the dissemination of the information to the profession
for the use of its products. The plea of the respondent is that all
advertising was done by the appellants only. In replication it was asserted
that the plaintiff advertised extensively by way of seminars to popularize the
goods bearing the "Synthes" Trade Mark and device mark.
In regard to Suit No. 708/93, the plea of the plaintiffs/respondents is that
apart from making available the technical know-how respondent No. 2 also
supplied raw materials and unfinished goods. It is also claimed that
respondent No. 2 had been manufacturing and supplying its products under trade
mark AO/ASIF and device mark directly from Switzerland to various customers,
and in particular to hospital, surgeons and end users. Accordingly, respondent
No. 2 supplied its products under the trade mark AO/ASIF and the device mark
to the defendant company during 1979-91.
In para 11 of the plaint, the respondents have also given figures of sales of
the products in the past few years as under :
\-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Year        Sales of locally manufactured      Sales of imported
                           Goods (Rs.)                               Goods (Rs.)
    ----------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
    1988                58,00,000/-                    90,00,000/- 
     1989                60,00,000/-                   100,00,000/- 
     1990                 61,00,00/-                   240,00,000/- 
     1991                60,00,000/-                    40,00,000/-
    ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ 
Furthermore, the plaintiff claims to have widely advertised its products under
the trade mark 'AO/ASIF' and the device mark by distribution of related
literature to the surgeons. hospitals and the medical profession and has been
regularly holding seminars and conferences for the dissemination of
information to the profession for the use of its products.
According to the appellant, the plaintiff had not imported into this country
any of its products. On the contrary, it was the defendant who imported and
marketed them. The table of sales of locally manufactured products and
imported products as given in paragraph-11 of the plaint has not been
disputed. According to the appellant, it has been advertising its goods with
the disputed trade mark/device mark. Again it has not been clarified that
apart from goods sent to the appellant company any other goods were sent to
any person directly. The plea regarding advertisement is the same as in the
case in Suit No. 709/93.
Distinction between "Passing off" and "Infringement" Actions :
Here it appears essential to appreciate the difference between "passing off"
and "infringement" actions for we are supposed to deal with both kinds of
actions, to avoid any confusion. Firstly, nature of remedy in two types of
actions is different. An action for passing off is a Common Law remedy while
an infringement action is a statutory remedy.
Secondly, issue in a passing off action is : "Is the defendant selling goods
in the market so marked as to be designed or calculated to lead purchaser to
believe that they are the plaintiff's goods ? The issue in an infringement
action, on the other hand will be : "Is the defendant using a mark which is
the same as or which is colourable imitation of the plaintiff's registered
trade mark ? Thus issues involved in two types of actions are different.
Thirdly, in an infringement action, the statutory protection is absolute in
the sense that once a mark is shown to offend, there being imitation
phonetically, visually or otherwise to lead the purchaser to believe and
purchase goods of another as that of plaintiff, no further evidence of
violation of plaintiffs statutory right is necessary and the user of the mark
cannot by showing that by something outside the actual mark itself, he has
distinguished his goods from that of registered proprietor. But in a passing
off action, the defendant may escape liability if he can show that the added
matter is sufficient to distinguish his goods from those of the plaintiff. In
other words, if the essential features of the trademark of the plaintiff have
been adopted by the defendant, the fact that the get up backing and other
writing or marks show marked difference or indicate clearly a trade origin
different from that of the registered proprietor of the mark, then such
difference though immaterial in an infringement action would be material in a
passing off action (See Durga Dutta Sharma v. N. P. Laboratories, , Ruston &
Hornby Ltd. v. Z. Engineering Co., , Wander Ltd. & Anr. v. Antox India P.
Ltd., 1990 (Supp) SCC 727 and J&P Coats Ltd. v. Popular Thread Mills, 1996 V
AD (Delhi) 436.
How far passing off action is governed by the Act ?
Before proceeding further, it would be desirable to appreciate that the Trade
and Merchandise Act 1958 "is an Act to provide for the registration and better
protection of trade marks and for the prevention of use of fraudulent marks
and merchandise". This Act came into force on 25th November, 1959. It covers
not only the matters related to infringement action but also certain matters
relating to passing off action. Though in sub-section (2) of Section 27 it is
provided that nothing in this Act shall be deemed to affect the rights of
action against any person for passing off goods of another person or the
remedies in respect thereof, yet it is notable that it prohibits assignment of
unregistered trade marks by providing in Section 38 for assignability and
transmissibility of unregistered trade marks and in Sections 39 and 40 where
multiple or exclusive rights would be created in different parts of India.
Section 41 also provides for conditions of assignment otherwise then in
connection with the goodwill of business covering registered as well as
unregistered trade marks. There are other Sections 42 and 43 which relate to
the assignability and transmissibility of certification trademarks, of
associated trade marks. All these provisions are sufficient indication of the
intention of the legislature to regulate certain areas relating to passing off
action also.
Further, it is desirable to appreciate the meaning of different relevant terms
used in the Act. They read as under :
2\. Definitions and interpretations. - (1) In this Act, unless the context
otherwise requires, -
(a) "assignment" means an assignment in writing by act of the parties
concerned;
(c) "certification trade mark" means a mark adapted in relation to any goods
to distinguish, in the course of trade, goods certified by any person in
respect of origin, material mode of manufacture, quality, accuracy or other
characteristic, from goods not so certified and registrable as such under the
provisions of Chapter VIII in respect of those goods in the name as proprietor
of the certification trade mark, of that person;
(j) "mark" includes a device, brand, heading, lable, ticket, name, signature,
word, letter or numeral or any combination thereof;
(m) "permitted use" in relation to a registered trade mark, means the use of a
trade mark -
(i) by a registered user of the trade mark in relation to goods -
(a) with which he is connected in the course of trade; and
(b) in respect of which the trade mark remains registered for the time being;
and
(c) for which he is registered as registered user; and
(ii) which complies with any conditions or restrictions to which the
registration of the trade mark is subject;
(q) "registered proprietor", in relation to a trade mark means the person for
the time being entered in the register as proprietor of the trade mark;
(r) "registered trade mark" means a trade mark which is actually on the
register;
(s) "registered user" means a person who is for the time being registered as
such under Section 49;
(v) "trade mark" means -
(i) in relation to Chapter X (other than Section 81), a registered trade mark
or a mark used in relation to goods for the purpose of indicating or so as to
indicate a connection in the course of trade between the goods and some person
having the right as proprietor to use the mark; and
(ii) in relation to the other provisions of this Act, a mark used or proposed
to be used in relation to goods for the purpose of indicating or so as to
indicate a connection in the course of trade between the goods and some person
having the right, either as proprietor or as registered user, to use the mark
whether with or without any indication of the identity of that person, and
includes a certification trade mark registered as such under the provisions of
Chapter VIII;
(w) "transmission" means transmission by operation of law; devolution on the
personal representative of a deceased person and any other mode of transfer,
not being assignment;
2(2) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires, any reference -
(a) to the use of a mark shall be construed as a reference to the use of a
printed or other visual representation of the mark;
(b) to the use of a mark in relation to goods shall be construed as a
reference to the use of the mark upon, or in any physical or in any other
relation whatsoever, to such goods;
(c) ......
(d) ......
(e) ......
Acquisition of right to exclusive use of a trade mark There are several ways
of acquisition of property right in trade mark : firstly it may be acquired by
creation or innovation of the trade mark by the person concerned; secondly, it
could also be acquired by assignment under Section 36; thirdly, by
simultaneously prolonged user by more than in given areas under certain
circumstances (see Section 24(2); and fourthly, there could be a licence under
common law. How far licensing is permissible in view of the codified, law, may
be a question which may be seen at a later stage. First, we will consider
rights under Common Law and rights under the Trade & Merchandise Marks Act.
Neither creation nor innovation nor property rights claimed by appellant for
about 15 years.
The learned Senior Counsel for the appellant Dr. K. S. Sidhu contended that
the fact that the appellant was using the trade mark in India by importing the
goods as principal to principal and not as an agent of the principal, the use
of the trade mark distinctively related to the goods imported and sold by the
appellant. Not only this, the appellant also manufactured the goods and used
the same trade mark on them. Of course, the raw material and the special steel
was purchased from respondent No. 2 for manufacturing the surgical instruments
and orthopedic implants. To a limited extent, there is some truth in the
version of the appellant but that does not appear to be the whole truth.
According to the case of the appellant, the appellant did not claim to have
innovated the trade mark. The trade mark in question was being used by the
plaintiff/respondent No. 2 even before entering into the collaboration
agreement outside India. The device and the word "synthes" had already been
registered, the appellant imported the goods marked with the same trade mark,
sold under the same trade mark even on the goods manufactured by it in India
under the directions, instructions, quality control and managerial control in
the shape of two Directors of the plaintiff/respondent No. 2 in the
appellant/Company.
Ratio in a similar case A question similar to the question involved in the
instant case arose in Sunder Parmanand Lalwani & Ors. v. Caltax (India) Ltd. .
A Division Bench in that case observed in paragraphs 32 and 33 as under :
"32. "... A proprietary right in a mark sought to be registered can be
obtained in a number of ways. The mark can be originated by a person or can be
acquired, but in all cases it is necessary that the person putting forward the
application should be in possession of some proprietary right which, if
questioned, can be substantiated".
33\. One of the modes of acquisition of proprietorship may be if an Indian
businessman happens to import and sell in India foreign goods of a foreign
trader with the latter's foreign trade mark. If the Indian trader sells those
goods in India, a question may arise who is entitled to that trade mark. It is
quite clear that the trade mark being a foreign trade mark, the proprietorship
as to India will be determined according to its use in the market of this
country. See Impex Electrical Ltd. v. Weinbanum, (1927) 44 RPC 405. Now, if
there is a specific agreement as to proprietorship of that mark, that
agreement will govern as between the foreign owner and the Indian Importer.
If, however, there is no specific agreement, diverse factors will govern the
determination as to which of the two is the proprietor in India. That
determination must depend on the facts of each case. If, for example, the
Indian Importer has acted merely as an agent of the foreign owner, the
probabilities would be that the trade mark continues to belong to the foreign
owner and not to the Indian Importer. If, however, the transaction between the
foreign owner and the Indian Importer has been on the basis of principal to
principal, the position may be a little more complicated. There again, one of
the more important considerations would be to whom was credit given that is,
whether the purchasing public paid regard to the reputation of the foreign
manufacturer or to the Indian Importer. In some cases, it may happen that the
foreign manufacturer is so well known that which importer imported the goods
and sold them in India would be immaterial. It would happen, for example, in
the case of goods so well known as, for example "Bovril" or "Pears Soap". The
converse may happen when a firm of great repute in India imports and sells
goods, and the purchasing public attaches value to the reputation of the
Indian Importer who selects to import the goods and not to the reputation of
the manufacturer of the goods".
Applying the above principle to the case in hand, while it is true that the
appellant Roo Mathys India (P) Ltd., was transacting as principal to principal
- and over and above manufacturing in India itself, using material supplied by
respondent No. 2, the following facts do indicate that the purchasing public
paid regard to the reputation of plaintiff/ respondent No. 2 : for (a) the
name of the Indian company was similar to predecessor of the
plaintiff/respondent No. 2, (b) the plaintiffs/respondents No. 1 and 2 both
had established their reputation world over being pioneers in the field, (c)
the goods sold by the appellants were either imported from the
plaintiff/respondent No. 2 or manufactured in India by using material supplied
by plaintiff/respondent No. 2. Consequently, the appellants cannot be accepted
to be the owners of the trade marks in question.
Estoppel, Acquiescence, delay & laches.
One of the arguments advanced is in regard to plea of the estoppel. One feels
that this cannot be a case where estoppel should be applied against all the
principles of fair play, equity and goods conscience for the appellant has
been using the trademark with the implied consent and permission of the
licensee (respondent/plaintiff No. 2 of the plaintiff No. 1). The facts in the
case of Habib Bank Ltd. v. Habib Bank AG Zurich (All England Law Reports 1981
p. 650), were altogether different. In the said case there was no implied
permission for user at all and on account of prolonged user of the trade mark,
the Court took the view that the plea of estoppel would apply in that case.
Learned Counsel for the respondent Shri Bose has contended that it was well
settled that if the defendant acts fraudulently with the knowledge that he is
violating the plaintiff's rights, the essential elements of estoppel are
lacking and in such a case the protection of the plaintiff's rights by
injunctive relief never is properly denied. The doctrine of estoppel could
only be invoked to promote fair dealings. In any event the defense of
acquiescence is not available to the defendant/appellant in the instant case
for it is well settled that the acquiescence must be such as to lead to the
inference of a licence sufficient to create a new right in the defendant. The
learned Counsel for the respondent relied on M/s. Hindustan Pencils Pvt. Ltd.
v. M/s. India Stationery Products Co., (supra) and M/s. Power Control
Appliances v. Sumeet Machines Pvt. Ltd. .
In so far as the acquiescence is concerned, the observations of the Supreme
Court in M/s. Power Control Appliances v. Sumeet Machines Pvt. Ltd. (supra) in
paras 26 and 27 are noteworthy. They read as under :
26\. Acquiescence is sitting by, when another is invading the rights and
spending money on it. It is a course of conduct inconsistent with the claim
for exclusive rights in a trade mark, trade name etc. It implies positive
acts; not merely silence or inaction such as is involved in laches. In
Harcourt v. White Sr. John Romilly said : "It is important to distinguish mere
negligence and acquiescence." Therefore, acquiescence is one facet of delay.
If the plaintiff stood by knowingly and let the defendants build up an
important trade until it had become necessary to crush it, then the plaintiffs
would be stopped by their acquiescence. If the acquiescence in the
infringement amounts to consent, it will be a complete defense as was laid
down in Monsoon (JG) & Co. v. Boehm, the acquiescence must be such as to lead
to the inference of a licence sufficient to create a new right in the
defendant as was laid down in Rodgers v. Nowill.
27\. The law of acquiescence is stated by Cotton, LJ in Pro tor v. Bannis as
under :
"It is necessary that the person who alleges this lying by should have been
acting in ignorance of the title of the other man, and that the other man
should have known that ignorance and not mentioned his own title."
In the same case Bowen, LJ said :
"In order to make out such acquiescence it is necessary to establish that the
plaintiff stood by and knowingly allowed the defendants to proceed and to
expend money in ignorance of the fact that he had rights and means to assert
such rights."
Delay simplicitor in this case is certainly no defense to an action for
infringement of a trade mark for the appellants neither claimed to be rivals
of respondent No. 1 nor of respondent No. 2 at least and respondent No. 2 also
never claimed to be rivals of respondent No. 1. They have been using these
trade marks with the permission and consent of respondent No. 1 and not as
proprietors. Unchallenged continued assertion of proprietary rights in and use
of trade marks is essential to set up defense of acquiescence. But there is no
such defense.
Therefore, neither alleged estoppel nor acquiescence nor delay would be an
appropriate cause to refuse the injunction prayed for.
The appellant is thus estopped by its conduct and now it cannot be allowed to
take an about turn to claim that in these registered as well as unregistered
trade marks, the appellant has acquired ownership on the basis of the
aforesaid user.
Abandonment of trade mark Thought there is Section 102 of the Act relating to
abandonment, it is confined to abandonment of an application for registration
of Trade Mark and it is not applicable to the present situation. Consequently,
one has to revert back to common law rules.
However, here, in view of the peculiar circumstances and non-user of the trade
mark in India by the respondents and plaintiffs Nos. 1 and 2 themselves, the
question of abandonment is also required to be seen.
Question of abandonment depends on determining the intention to be inferred
from the facts of each case. While a mere non-user for a few years may not
amount to abandonment of a trademark if referable to accountable facts, a long
unexplained non user may suggest an intention to abandon the mark. (See
Whirlpool Company & Anr. v. N. R. Dongre & Ors. ).
However, it may be mentioned that a Division Bench of Calcutta High Court in
J. N. Nicols (Vimto) Limited v. Rose & Thistle & Anr. , took the view that
where an application for removal of registered trade mark was filed for non-
user of the same for a long period, the defense of import ban as special
circumstance for the said non-user cannot be granted when other similar
product was manufactured and freely sold during that period in spite of the
import restriction. Hence the onus has not been discharged by the registered
proprietor of trade mark for excusing him from non-user during the prescribed
period, preceding the application for removal of registered mark. The
existence of special circumstance must affect the trade as a whole and the
onus of establishing that the case comes within the ambit of Section 46(3)
lies on the registered proprietor of the trade mark. It may be shown that the
non-user was due to special circumstance of the trade only and not by reason
of some other cause which would have otherwise been inoperative even in the
absence of the special circumstances. If the non-user was, in fact, by reason
of some other factors apart from the special circumstances, question of a
defense under Section 46(3) being made available to the proprietor of the mark
does not and cannot arise. A specific case shall have to be made and proved
with necessary documentary evidence that the non-user was the direct effect of
the existence of the special circumstances. The special circumstances cannot
be taken note of as a defense if the non-user is by reason of a voluntary act.
This view taken by Calcutta High Court might have helped the proceedings under
Section 46 of the Act. But here in this case due to special kind of
relationship between the respondents No. 1 and 2 and between respondent No. 2
and the appellant in the trade and there being no intention to abandon or not
to use the trade mark in relation to the goods to which the registration of
the trade mark related, the appellant even for that purpose is not entitled to
claim removal from register of the trade mark the device and word "Synthes" on
the ground of alleged non-user. In the present case, the question of
abandonment has to be judged in the peculiar set of facts. Here the
plaintiff/respondent No. 1 is one who is not indulging in any trading
activities not only in India but also outside India. The plaintiff/respondent
No. 2 does not have any registration as registered user of the trade marks in
India. It is not the case here where the trade mark has not been got renewed
by plaintiff/respondent No. 1. It is different thing to look at the situation
from the point of view of trafficking in trade marks. But in the face of
renewal of the trade mark and allowing the plaintiff/respondent No. 2 to use
the same exclusively and further tacitly allowing the appellant to use it, it
is difficult rather not possible to say that the trade mark in this case has
been abandoned.
Claims of the appellant under the Statute Learned Counsel for the appellant
also referred to Sections 30(b), 30(c), 33(a), 44(2), 46 and 48 of the Act to
substantiate his claim that the action of the appellant did not amount to
infringement on one hand and saved and protected under the aforesaid
provisions on the other. This is also in support of the claim including that
the appellants are owners of the trade mark, the device and the word
"synthes". Registration of the device and the word "Synthes" Trade mark was of
no consequence.
In the case in hand seeing the nature of the organization AO/ASIF and its
concern Synthes AG Chur it is apparent that both these organizations are meant
to undertake research and development in relation to orthopedic surgery and
surgical implants to ensure speedy recovery in case of any body injury and to
rehabilitate the injured as far as it is humanly possible. They do not appear
to be a trading organization. They appear to be just concerned with certain
specific minimum standard and quality being maintained in orthopedic implants
and the surgical instruments. Syntes AG Chur also is itself neither
manufacturing any article in India nor in any other part of the world. It is
not the case of plaintiff/respondent No. 1 that they are having any kind of
supervision over the plaintiff/ respondent 2. It is altogether different thing
that plaintiff/respondent 2 might be having some managerial as well as
advisory role in the production and management of the appellant Company. It is
also notable that initially licenses were given to three concerns with an idea
to ensure the financial assistance of the three concerns in the matters of
research and development of the orthopedic implants and surgical instruments.
In this connection one should also not loose site of the provision of Section
60 relating to certification trade marks and Section 61 which refers to the
registration of certification trade marks. The certification trade mark has
been separately defined and it is totally distinct from the trade mark. The
trade mark and certification mark are not to be confused.
In such circumstances, it appears that Respondent No. 1 should have either got
a certification mark registered under Sections 60 and 61 of the Act or should
have itself started manufacturing these goods and then could have entered into
an agreement with registered users, registered under the Section 48 of the
Act, or could have allowed as "licensed use" under common law, subject to
certain conditions.
User and onus of proof of user In so far as the question of user is concerned,
in terms of Section 2(2) of the Act, the term 'user' has been referred for two
different purposes. One is in relation to goods, and that is covered by Clause
(b) of Section 2(2). Clause (a) referred to the use of a trade mark as a
printed or other visual representation of the mark for the purpose of
advertising etc. In this context for acquisition of the proprietary rights in
a trade mark in relation to goods is much more important as compared to the
user of the trade mark for the purpose of advertisement etc. But it is not
possible to say the use of trade mark for the purpose of advertisement etc.
and sales promotion without any relation to goods would not be use in India.
But even for that limited purpose, the use has to be in India and any
advertisement etc. in foreign countries may not be of any help as would be
evident hereinafter.
The onus of user is on the person who claims it. One need not look into the
register of trade marks where a mark may be entered searching for the proof of
user. To quote from para 15 of the speech of A. K. Sarkar, J. in Corn Products
v. Shangrila Food Products :
"Now, of course, the presence of a mark in the register does not prove its
user at all. It is possible that the mark may have been registered but not
used. It is not permissible to draw any inference as to their user from the
presence of marks in the register."
User of the mark is required to be established prior in point of time than the
impugned user by the opposite party. The registration of the said mark or
similar mark prior in point of time to user by the appellant is irrelevant in
an action for passing off and the mere presence of the mark in register
maintained by the Trade Mark Registry does not prove its user; and as such it
is irrelevant for the purpose of deciding application for interim injunction,
unless prima facie evidence is available of user of their registered trade
mark. (See Century-Traders v. Roshan Lal Duggar & Co. .
In Aktieboleget Jonkoping Valcan v. S. V. Palanichamy Nadar & Ors. , the term
"use" was considered and it was construed to be meaning "to be used within
India". Calcutta High Court made the following observations in para 20 and
para 27 as under :
"20. Use abroad and advertisement abroad outside the place where the mark is
registered are not of any assistance to the appellant, even if it was
established in fact that there was such a foreign use, although even that fact
has not been proved or brought on record."
"27. On principles, I take the same view. The Trade Mark law from that point
of view is not extra-territorial; that use abroad in foreign countries under
foreign registration can be use without the meaning of the Indian Trade and
Merchandise Marks Act 1958\. This statute is an Act which provides for
registration and better protection of trade marks and for the prevention of
the use of fraudulent marks on merchandise. That is its preamble. That
preamble I read as confined to the territorial limits of India. Section 1(2)
of the statute extends it to the whole India. The statute establishes trade
marks register for India. The definition of a trade mark in Section 2(v)
speaking of use in relation to goods must in my opinion be understood as use
within the territory of India and not use abroad. On the authorities quoted
above and on the principles that I have just mentioned I am of the opinion
that under Section 46 of the Trade and Merchandise Marks Act, 1958 the word
"use" employed therein is used within India. Naturally if it is not used in
India that would be a ground for removal from the Indian register. I cannot
imagine that a foreign use or use abroad or outside India could be pleaded as
a sufficient ground for retaining a registered Trade Mark on the Indian Trade
Mark register ... I am of the opinion that registration of a Trade Mark and
its continuance on the register are exclusively within the scope and ambit of
domestic and national law. The "International convention for the protection of
Industrial Property" or originally of Paris in 1883 and recently revised at
Lisbon in 1958 clearly recognizes the principle specially in its Articles 6
that when a Trade Mark has been duly registered in the country of origin and
is then registered in other Convention Countries, each of these national marks
is to be considered as independent and the renewal of registration in the
country of origin does not involve the obligation to renew in other Convention
Countries.
We are in respectful agreement with view expressed in Aktieboleget Jonkoping
Valcan v. S. V. Palanichamy Nadar & Ors. (supra).
Question of distinctiveness in relation to goods In order to control
trafficking in trade mark, it is essential that the trade mark should be
distinct in relation to goods in respect of which trade mark is proposed to be
registered. In this context, the expression "distinctiveness" in relation to
goods in respect of which trade mark is proposed to be registered means a mark
adopted to distinguish goods with which the proprietor of a trade mark is or
may be connected in course of trade from goods in case of which no connection
subsists. Distinctiveness has been understood to mean "some quality in the
trade mark which earmarks the goods so marked as distinct from those of other
producers of such goods" (See National Bell Co. v. Metal Goods Manufacturing
Company (AIR 1964 Punjab 77), Imperial tobacco Company v. Registrar, Trade
Marks .
One of the recognized tests for determining distinctiveness is whether the
registration would tend to protect the public from imposition or the result
would be the reverse of it.
Trafficking in trade mark and permitted use/Licensing The object of the Act
being prevention of trafficking inn trade mark, "Permitted use" appears to be
confined to a registered trade mark, in relation to goods and registered user.
In view of this limited and restricted meaning of "permitted use", it may not
appear plausible to accept user by a sub-licensee (who is not a registered
user) as user by the proprietor of the trade mark. But this has to be seen and
appreciated in the light of rights under common law.
In so far as the licensing and trafficking in trade marks and privilege of
using the trade mark given impliedly by the respondents is concerned, the
learned Counsel referred to numerous cases including American Home Products
Corporation v. Mac Laboratories Pvt. Ltd. (supra); Re : American Greetings
Corp. (1982 All ER 609), Bowden Wires Ltd. v. Bowden Brake Co. Ltd. ((1914) 31
RPC 385), BOSTITCH Trade Mark ((1963) RPC 183), GE Trade Mark case (1969 RPC
418), ZING Trade Mark ((1978) RPC 47). Pioneer Electronic Corporation & Anr.
v. Registrar of Trade Marks ((1978) RPC 716), (Australia) and submitted that a
careful consideration of the cases would show that licensing of trade marks
whether registered or unregistered may be possible provided that :
1\. The intention to use the trade mark is genuine and real and not for the
purpose of trafficking in trade marks and "using them as a weapon to obtain
money from subsequent persons who may want to use bona fide trade marks in
respect of some classes in respect of which they find these bogus trade marks
registered."
2\. The licensing does not result in causing confusion, or deception amount
the public. In this connection, the following observation made by Lord
Kingsdown in Leather Cloth Company's case reported in 1965 11 HLC 523 is most
pertinent :
"Though a man may have a property in a trade mark ... it does not follow that
he can in all cases give another person a right to use it, or to use his name.
If an artist or an artisan has acquired by his personal skill and ability a
reputation which gives to his works in the market a higher value that those of
other artists or artisans, he cannot give any other person the right to affix
his name or mark to their goods, because he cannot given to them the right to
practice a fraud upon the public."
3\. It does not destroy the distinctiveness of the mark that is to say, the
trade mark in the public eye continues to distinguish the goods connected with
the proprietor of the trade mark from those connected with others.
4\. A connection in the course of trade consistent with the definition of
trade mark continues to exist between the goods and the proprietor of the
mark.
5\. The conditions of control are adequate to maintain the connection in the
course of trade between the proprietor of the trade mark and the goods in
relation to which the trade mark is used by the licensee. Control may be
exercised or presumed to be exercised in various ways. In some cases, the very
relationship between the licenser and the license will imply sufficient degree
of control for example, where the licenser stipulates that the license should
manufacture the goods only in accordance with the specifications and the
standards of quality prescribed by the licenser, or reserves the right to
inspect the goods and methods of manufacture of the licensee. Lack of adequate
control or lessening of control over a period of time would be fatal to the
distinctiveness of a trade mark.
Learned Counsel for the appellants in regard to BOSTITCH Trade Mark case
(supra) submitted that the mere fact that the foreign manufacturer who had got
registered trade mark in UK and had been using such mark through an
unregistered licensee has not been able to export goods later on due to war
conditions does not mean that the foreigner had abandoned his mark so as to
entitle his licensee to have the registered mark of the foreigner expunged
from the register and as such the BOSTITCH Trade case (supra) does not appear
to be of any relevance. Caprihens (India) P. Ltd. v. Registrar of Trade Marks
((1976) 80 CWN 222), according to learned Counsel for the respondent - was
decided inertia on the ground that any person claiming to be proprietor of a
trade mark may mean person claiming to be a proprietor of an unregistered
trade mark using it through a common law licensee. At the same time. Court
categorically laid down that the use of registered trade mark by a non-
registered user, is not a use of registered trade mark by the registered
proprietor.
It is notable that the facts in the case in hand are very peculiar. Here while
it is apparent that plaintiff/respondent No. I for want of user in India, and
lack of distinctiveness of the Trade Marks in relation to the goods, may or
may not succeed to claim proprietary rights in the trade mark, the appellant
had not claimed to be the proprietor of trade marks earlier. The appellant
even now wants to use the trade mark and wish to continue the collaboration
agreement meaning thereby that they want to use the trade mark as an implied
condition of the continuance of collaboration agreement. So long as the trade
mark was being used as an implied condition or a gratuitous privilege granted
independent of the collaboration agreement, along with obligatory quality as
well as managerial control by respondent No. 2, the appellant could not claim
to be the proprietors and it might not have mentioned to trafficking and
leading to confusion. It might not have lost the distinctiveness also if the
trade mark belonged to plaintiff/respondent No. 2 for, there was connection in
the course of trade consistent with the definition of trade mark and that
connection continued to exist till the date of cancellation of an agreement.
But in the absence of privity of contract between the respondent No. I and the
appellant, it may not be plausible to accept the proposition that there is a
connection in the course of trade consistent, though remotely, between the
goods imported, manufactured and sold by the appellant in India and the
proprietor of the trade mark namely plaintiff/respondent No. I consequently
the plaintiff/ respondent No. I could not claim any connection of trade
consistent with the definition of trade mark to exist between the goods
produced by the appellant and the plaintiff/ respondent No. 1.
In American Hone Products Corporation v. Mac Laboratories Pvt. Ltd. (supra),
the term permitted use and fiction/deeming provision in Section 48(2) was
considered in relation to Section 46 as well as Section 48. Following
observations in paras 55,58 and 71 are noteworthy :
37\. "As the registration of a trade mark confers such valuable rights upon
the registered proprietor thereof, a person cannot be permitted to register a
trade mark when he has not used it in relation to the goods in respect of
which it is sought to be registered or does not intend to use it in relation
to such goods. The reason for not permitting such trade marks to be registered
was thus stated by Romer, J., in In re the Registered Trade Marks of John
Bhatt & Co. and In re Charter's Application for a Trade Marks (1898) 2 Ch.D.
432,436 : SC 15 RPC 262,266 :
"... One cannot help seeing the evils that may result from allowing trade
marks to be registered broadcast, if I may use the expression, there being no
real intention of using them, or only an intention possibly of using them in
respect of a few articles. The inconvenience it occasions, the cost it
occasions, is very large, and beyond that I cannot help seeing that it would
lead in some cases to absolute oppression, and to persons using the position
they have obtained as registered owners of trade-marks (which are not really
bonafide trade marks) for the purpose of trafficking in them and using them as
a weapon to obtain money from subsequent persons who may want to use bonafide
trade marks in respect of some classes in respect of which they find those
bogus trade-marks registered."
The judgment of Romer, J., in Bhatt's case was confirmed by the Court of
Appeal (1898) 2 Ch.D. 432 at pages 439-442 and by the House of Lords sub-
nominee John Bhatt & Co. v. Dunnett, (1899) AC 428, SC 16 RPC 411.
38\. To get a trade mark registered without any intention to use it in
relation to any goods but merely to make money out of it by selling to others
the right to use it would be trafficking in that trade mark. In Re American
Greetings Corp.'s Application (1983) 2 All ER 609, 619, Dillon, LJ said in the
Court of appeal :
"Trafficking in a trade mark has from the outset been one of the cardinal sins
of trade mark law. But there is no statutory definition of trafficking; and
one may suspect that, as with usury in the Middle Ages, though it is known to
be deadly sin, it has become less and less clear, as economic circumstances
have developed, what the sin actually comprehends.
Trafficking must involve trading in or dealing with the trade mark for money
or money's worth, but it is not all dealing with a trade mark for money that
is objectionable, since it has always been accepted that it is permissible to
sell a trade mark together with the goodwill of the business in the course of
which the trade mark has been used."
55\. "The Appellant's application for registration of the trade mark 'Dristan'
was made under the 1940 Act and its registration was also ordered under that
Act. The application for registering the Indian Company as the registered user
was, however, made under the 1958 Act. If the 1940 Act did not contain a legal
fiction similar to that enacted in Section 48(2) of the 1958 Act, the
Appellant's case would fall to the ground because then at the date of its
application for registration of the said trade mark, its intention would be
not to use it itself but to use it through another. The 1940 Act, however,
also made provisions with respect to registered users and created a similar
legal fiction in Section 39(2) of that Act. Section 39 of the 1940 Act
provided as follows :
"39. Registered users. (2) ... As we have seen. Clause (a) of Section 46(1)
refers both to "bonafide intention on the part of the applicant for
registration that it (that is, the trade mark) should be used in relation to
those goods by him" as also to "bonafide use of the trade mark in relation to
those goods by any proprietor thereof for the time being". It cannot possibly
be that when Section 48(2) expressly provides that the permitted user of a
trade mark by a registered user is to be deemed to be user by the proprietor
of the trade mark for the purposes of Section 46 the fiction is intended only
to apply to the use of the trade mark referred to in the second condition of
Clause (a) of Section 46(1) and not to the use of that trade mark referred to
in the first condition of the said Clause (a). Under Section 18(1) an
application for registration of a trade mark can only be made by a person who
claims to be the proprietor of that trade mark. Therefore, the words
"applicant for registration" in Clause (a) of Section 46(1) would mean "the
person claiming to be the proprietor of the trade mark who is the applicant
for registration that trade mark". The first condition of Clause (a) would,
therefore read "that the trade mark was registered without any bona fide
intention on the part of the person claiming to be the proprietor of that
trade mark who has made the application for registration that it should be
used in relation to those goods by him". So read, there can be no difficulty
in reading the words "by him" also as "by a registered user". Similarly, we
see no difficulty in applying the legal fiction in Section 48(2) to Section
18(1). Section 18(1) in the light of the said legal fiction would read as "any
person claiming to be the proprietor of a trade mark used or proposed to be
used by him or by a registered user". By reason of the provisions of Section
39(2) of the 1940 Act, Section 14(1) of that Act should also be read in the
same way."
58\. "The purpose for which the said fiction has been enacted are set out in
Section 48(2). These purposes are the purposes of Section 46 or for any other
purpose for which such use is material under the 1958 Act or any other law. To
confine the purpose only to a part of Section 46 would be to substantially cut
down the operation of the legal fiction. The purpose for which the legal
fiction is to be resorted to is to deem the permitted use of a trade mark,
which means the user of the trade mark by a registered user thereof, to be the
use by the proprietor of that trade mark. Having regard to the purposes for
which the fiction in Section 48(2) was created and the persons between whom it
is to be resorted to, namely, the proprietor of the trade mark and the
registered user thereof, and giving to such fiction its full effect and
carrying it to its logical conclusion, no other interpretation can be placed
upon the relevant portions of Section 18(1) and of Clause (a) of Section 46(1)
that the one which we have given."
71\. "In our opinion, to enable the proprietor of a trade mark who has got it
registered on the ground that he intends to use the trademark to avail himself
of the fiction created by Section 48(2), he must have had in mind at the date
of his application for registration some person to whom he intends to allow
the use of the trade mark as a registered user. This would eliminate all
chances of trafficking in a trade mark. If an applicant for registration did
not have at the date of his application for registration a particular
registered user in view, he cannot be said to have had a bona fide intention
to use the trade mark and in such an event he cannot resist an application
made under Clause (a) of Section 461(1) of the 1958 Act."
Lord Brightman, in American Greetings Corp's Application, (1984) 1 All ER 426,
433 summed up the position in law thus :
"My Lords, although as a matter of ordinary English, trafficking in trade
marks might mean the buying and selling of trade marks, it seems obvious that
it is to have a more specialized meaning in a trade mark context. I have no
quarrel with the definitions suggested by the assistant registrar and by Sir
Denys Buckley, but perhaps one further attempt on my part may not be out of
place. The Courts have to grope for some means of delineating the forbidden
territory, and different modes of expression may help to indicate boundaries
which are not and cannot be marked out with absolute precision. To my mind,
trafficking in a trade mark context conveys the notion of dealing in a trade
mark primarily as a commodity in its own right and not primarily for the
purpose of identifying or promoting merchandise in which the proprietor of the
mark is interested. If there is no real trade connection between the
proprietor of the mark and the licensee or his goods, there is room for the
conclusion that the grant of the licence is a trafficking in the mark. It is a
question of fact and degree in every case whether a sufficient trade
connection exists.
We have no hesitation in accepting the meaning given to the expression
"trafficking in a trade mark" by Dillon, L.J. and Lord Brightman.
39\. The intention to use a trade mark sought to be registered must be,
therefore, genuine and real and as pointed out by Tomlin, J., in In re
Ducker's Trade Mark (1928) 1 Ch. 405, 409, the fact that the mark was thought
to be something which some day might be useful would not amount to any
definite and precise intention at the time of registration to use that mark.
The intention to use the mark must exist at the date of the application for
registration and such intention must be genuine and bona fide. In fact,
Section 46(1)(a) expressly speaks of "bona fide intention on the part of the
applicant for registration" which would mean "at the date when such applicant
makes his application for registration."
40\. We will now address ourselves to the question whether the facts which
bring into play Clause (a) of Section 46(1) exists in the present case. What
is first required to be ascertained for this purpose is whether the Appellant
had any intention that the trade mark "Dristan should be used in India in
relation to the concerned goods. Assuming the Appellant had such an intention,
the next question which will fall to be determined is whether this intention
was an intention on the part of the Appellant to use the said trade mark
itself or to use it through a registered user and if the intention was to use
it through a registered user. whether Clause (a) of Section 46(1) would be
attracted. The third question will be whether such intention on the part of
the Appellant was a bona fide one."
Before proceeding further it is required to be seen what is expected of a
proprietor of a registered trade mark who allows it to be used by others to
protect his own trade mark in the light of the judgment of Supreme Court in
the case of Gujarat Bottling (supra). In para 13 of the judgment the Supreme
Court observed that :
13\. "Apart from the said provisions relating to registered users, it is
permissible for the registered proprietor of a trade mark to permit a person
to use his registered trade mark. Such a licensing of trade mark is governed
by common law and is permissible provided :
(i) the licensing does not result in causing confusion or deception among the
public;
(ii) it does not destroy the distinctiveness of the trade mark, that is to
say, the trade mark, before the public eye, continues to distinguish the goods
connected with the proprietor of the mark from those connected with others;
and
(iii) a connection in the course of trade consistent with the definition of
trade mark continues to exist between the goods and the proprietor of the
mark. (See : P. Narayanan-Law of Trade Marks and Passing-Off, 4th Edn.,
paragraph 20.16, p. 33).
It would thus appear that use of a registered trade mark can be permitted to a
registered user in accordance with provisions of the Act and for that purpose
the registered proprietor has to enter into an agreement with the proposed
registered user. The use of the trade mark can also be permitted dehors the
provisions of the Act by grant of licence by the registered proprietor to the
proposed user. Such a licence is governed by common law."
So far as the grant of licence of registered trade mark is concerned the
licensing of such trade mark is permissible provided, the aforesaid conditions
mentioned in para 13 of the judgment in Gujarat Bottling (supra) case are
fulfillled.
Learned Counsel for the respondents has contended that even though the
collaboration agreement dated 15th April, 1977 related only to future trade
marks and did not cover existing trade marks of respondent No. 1, respondent
No. 2 granted upto the appellant a bare personal privilege to use the trade
marks in question in relation to goods manufactured by it. As such, respondent
No. 2 granted a gratuitous licence in favour of the appellant, but the
respondents retained full control over the use of the trade mark. Respondent
No. 2 maintained the validity of the trade marks by strict quality control and
supervision of the goods manufactured by the appellant and the trade marks at
all material times indicated a connection in the course of trade with the
proprietor thereof, being respondent No. 1. In the instant case, the very
relationship between the licensor and the licensee of the trade marks implies
a sufficient degree of control as the licenser clearly intended that the
licensee was to manufacture the goods only in accordance with the
specifications and standards of quality prescribed by the licenser. Further
and in any event, it is well settled that use of an unregistered trade mark
under a licence granted by the proprietor bonafide under its control and
supervision is use of the unregistered mark by the proprietor. Under no
principle or precedent can it be held that at common law use by the licensee
of an unregistered mark is not use by the licenser or that such use will
invalidate a passing off action or disentitle the licenser to protection of
its trade mark.
In GET Trade Marks case (supra) Grahm J. reviewed the authorities from the
Budweiser case and took the view that the Budweiser case establishes :
"that the registered user provisions are permissible only and non-compulsory
pre-requisite for retention of authority of the trade mark and that provided
the conditions of control are adequate, there is no reason for holding that by
using the trade mark without a registered user the parties have destroyed the
mark see (GE Trade Mark, (1970) RPC 339).
It was further observed in this case that the authority given by the United
Status Parent Co. in respect of GE trade mark to its subsidiary to use the
registered trade mark was open to no objection for it could be fairly conceded
as user by the parent company itself and because license of the mark whether
registered or not did not deprive it of the character of a trade mark provided
that the owner of the mark retained sufficient connection in the course of the
trade with a mark and goods bearing it. Quality control by itself is not a
sufficient connection in the course of trade. The goods must be put on the
mark as the proprietor's goods and this is not the case here if mere quality
control by the proprietor is to be seen.
In this connection some confusion has arisen on account of some conflicting
approach by the different Courts.
In this connection, learned Counsel for the respondent referred to the
following cases :
(a) Bowden Wires Ltd. v. Bowden Brake Co. Ltd., (1914) 31 RPC 385.
(b) BOSTITCH Trade Mark, (1963) RPC 183.
(c) British Petrolium Co. Ltd., 1968 RPC 64.
(d) GE Trade Mark case, 1969 RPC 418.
(e) GE Trade Mark case, 1970 RPC 339.
(f) Speedcranes Ltd. v. Thomson & Anr., 1978 RPC 221.
(g) ZING Trade Mark, (1978) RPC 47.
(h) Brupat Limited & Anr. v. Sandford Marine Products Ltd., (1983) RPC 61.
(i) Pioneer Electronic Corporation & Anr. v. Registrar of Trade Marks, (1978)
RPC 716 (Australia).
We are afraid that these submissions could not be accepted for want of any
relation whatsoever between the goods imported, manufactured and sold by the
appellant in India and the owner of the trade mark plaintiff/respondent No. 1.
The judgments, in all the cases referred to above by the learned Counsel, have
shown concern and anxiety of the concerned Courts indicating the trafficking
in a trade mark has from the outset being one of the cardinal sins of trade
mark law. But there is no statutory definition of trafficking and one may
suspect that as with usury in the Middle Ages, though it was known to be a
deadly sin it has become less and less clear, as economic circumstances have
developed, what the sin actually comprehends. (See In Re American Greetings
Corp.'s Application (supra).
"Trafficking in trade mark means dealing in a trade mark primarily as a
commodity in its own right rather than for the purpose of identifying or
promoting merchandise in which the proprietor of the mark was interested. If
there is no real trade connection between the proprietor of the mark and the
licensee of his goods, the Registrar shall be entitled to conclude that the
grant of the licence to use the mark to promote the licensee's goods amounted
to trafficking in the mark. Whether a sufficient trade connection existed was
a question of fact and degree in every case, but in any event provision for
quality control by the proprietor of the mark over the goods of the licensee
was not in itself sufficient to establish the required connection and the
registration of the licensee's registered user under Section 28 would tend to
facilitate trafficking in the trade mark. In the present case it is not
possible to accept that licensing would not cause confusion or deception among
the public for numerous reasons - (a) absence of any quality or supervisory
control of plaintiff/respondent No. 1 over plaintiff/respondent No. 2 or the
appellant; (b) the goods imported and manufactured by the appellant do not
belong to the plaintiff/respondent No. 1; (c) there is no connection in the
course of trade consistent with the definition of trade mark between the goods
imported, produced, manufactured and marketed under the registered as well as
unregistered trade marks of the plaintiff/ respondent No. 1 by the appellant;
and (d) the agreement between plaintiff/ respondent No. 1 and
plaintiff/respondent No. 2 has not been produced before us for the reasons
best known to the plaintiffs and an adverse inference could be drawn in that
connection. Consequently, the conditions laid down in Gujarat Bottling case
(supra) have not been satisfied. This view expressed in American Greetings
Corp.'s Application, (1984) All ER 426, was approved by the Supreme Court
while dealing with the Sections 18, 46(1)(a)(b) and 48 of Trade & Merchandise
Marks Act, 1958 in American Home Products Corporation, .
Seeing the above approved view, it would appear as if the device mark and word
"Synthes" could not be registered in India for there was no intention to use
it on the part of respondent No. 1 for (i) they had allowed these trade marks
to be used by three others; and (ii) they were themselves not manufacturing
surgical implants and instruments nor was it disclosed that it was proposed to
be used through somebody else as registered user. At least there is no plea
that the respondent No. 2 or the appellant could be the registered user (s).
If, following N. R. Dongre (1996 PTC 583 : 1996(6) Scale (Vol. VI No. 1) 276),
we ignore the registration of the device and the word "Synthes", the
infringement action may not succeed in the end for the respondent No. 1 has
neither kept the distinctiveness of the goods nor even quality control. And
trade mark could not be used as certification mark.
It appears that the moment distinctiveness of the trade mark and goods
connected with a proprietor is destroyed and there is no connection in the
course of trade consistent with the definition of the trade mark and the use
by a sub-licensee may not ensure to the benefit of the proprietor of the trade
mark. In this light its consequences are required to be examined.
The exclusive user of the registered trade mark as well as unregistered trade
marks by the appellant in India for about 16 years would not ensure to the
benefit of Synthes AG Chur, in terms of sub-section (2) of Section 48 in view
of the views expressed in American Home Products Corpn. (supra). It reads as
under :-
48\. Registered users. - (1) ...
(2) The permitted use of a trade mark shall be deemed to be used by the
proprietor thereof, and shall be deemed not to be used by a person other than
the proprietor, for the purposes of Section 46 or for any other purpose for
which such use is material under this Act or any other law."
There cannot be any doubt that Synthes AG Chur plaintiff/respondent 1 through
the trademarks AO/ASIF as far as the trade mark "Synthes" and the trade mark
device are concerned they have acquired a worldwide reputation through their
licensee/respondent No. 2 and their sub-licensees as well. Despite this
worldwide recognition of the trade mark and extensive use thereof
plaintiff/respondent 1 may not succeed in the infringement action for the user
cannot be deemed to be a user by Synthes AG Chur in terms of Section 48(2).
The learned Counsel for the respondents contended that the trade marks of
respondents being distinctive commanding a worldwide reputation both in India
and abroad and have been continuously used in relation to the goods of the
respondent for over 20 years the use of the registered trade marks of the
device and the word "Synthes" by the appellant would amount to calculated
deception.
In support of this contention the learned Counsel referred to numerous
authorities mentioned below :
(a) Kaviraj Pandit Durga Dutta Sharma v. Navaratna Pharmaceutical
Laboratories, .
(b) Ruston and Hornby Ltd. v. Zamindara Engineering Co., .
(c) Hoffimann La Roche and Co. Ltd. v. Geoffrey Manners and Co. Pvt. Ltd., .
(d) Parte Products (P) Ltd. v. JP & Co., .
(e) Khemraj Shrikrishnadass v. M/s. Garg & Co., .
(f) Ellora v. Banarasi Dass, .
(g) M/s. Manoj Plastic India v. Bhola Plastic Industries, AIR 1984 Del. 441
(Paras 10 and 11 at p. 444).
(h) Hindustan Radiators Co. v. Hindustan Radiators Ltd., .
(i) Ranbaxy Laboratories Ltd. v. Dua Pharmaceuticals Pvt. Ltd. .
(j) Hiralal Parbhudas v. M/s. Ganesh Trading Company, .
(k) GTC Industries Ltd. v. ITC Ltd., .
(l) Rizla v. Bryant & May, (1986) RPC 389 (p. 392).
Though it might not have been deception till cancelling of the agreement, now
after withdrawal of implied consent, it would amount to deception for now
without having even a remote connection or authority to use the said trade
marks would be using them just to above connection or trading connection with
A. G. Chur Plaintiff/respondent No. 1 and would pass on its own goods for the
goods of at least respondent No. 2.
It was also contended that applying the underlying principle of spill over
reputation there is a clear case of passing off that entitled the respondent
to an ad interim injunction in their favour. In respect of this second
proposition following authorities were referred to :
I. Supreme Court of India
(a) N. R. Dongre v. Whirlpool Corporation, 1996(6) Scale (Vol. VI No. 1) 276.
II. Supreme Court of Ireland
(b) C&A Modes v. C&A (Waterford), 1978 Flet Street Reports 125.
III. Supreme Court of Hong Kong
(c) J.C. Penny Co. Inc. v. Penny's Ltd., 1979 Fleet Street Reports 29.
IV. Delhi High Court
(d) Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association v. Blue Cross Clinic, (1990)
Industrial Property Law Reporter.
(e) Apple Computer Inc. v. Apple Leasing & Industries, 1992 1 Arb. LR 93.
(f) William Grant & Sons Ltd. v. Mcdowell & Co. Ltd., 1994 Fleet Street
Reports 690.
(g) Whirlpool Corporation v. N. R. Dongre, .
V. Bombay High Court
(h) Yardley & Co. v. Kamal Trading Co., Unreported Judgment dated 5-10-87.
(i) Kamal Trading Co. v. Gillette UK Ltd., (1988) 1 Patent Law Reports 135.
(j) The Scotch Whisky Association v. Pravara Sabakar Shakar Karkhana Ltd., .
Learned Counsel for the respondent has not advanced any argument in respect of
non-user of trade mark by plaintiff/respondent No. 1 for the reasons best
known to him.
However, another aspect which has to be kept in mind is that a person cannot
be permitted to register a trade mark when he had no intention to use it in
relation to the goods in respect of which it is sought to be registered or
does not intend to use it is relation to such goods.
Moreover the trans border reputation or spillover reputation could not be
accepted in India as the sole criteria for protection of a registered or
unregistered trade mark. For registered trade mark there has to be user of the
trade mark also. Even in N. R. Dongre v. Whirlpool Corporation our Apex Court
has not accepted it as the sole criteria. In para 16 of the judgment findings
of the learned Single Judge (R. C. Lahoti, J. one of us) has been affirmed in
appeal by a Division Bench of the High Court as well as by the Supreme Court.
It is apparent that a trans border reputation or spill over reputation
extending to India to the use of that trade name was coupled with numerous
factors including the user prior to registration of that name even in India.
In para 10 of the judgment at page 561 the following observation of Lahoti, J.
has been quoted with approval :
"... Without expressing any opinion on the validity or otherwise of the
reasons assigned by the plaintiffs for non renewal of the registration
thereafter suffice it to say that in spite of non-registration of the trade
mark in India, the plaintiff was trading in Whirlpool products in several
parts of the world and also sending the same to India though in a limited
circle.
Thus, need of the user of the trade mark in India by plaintiff/respondent No.
1 cannot be given a total go by.
The English authorities have consistently taken the view that goodwill means
the business reputation and not generally in the wide world but locally in
England acquired by actually carrying on business in England and by use of the
trade name and trade mark in England. In the Budweiser case ((1984) FSR 413
CA), the Court of Appeal held that sales in England meant sales to consumers
in the general market in England and that sales of even substantial quantities
of the imported and well-known American brand of beer to military and
diplomatic establishments in England did not in any real sense amount to
carrying on of business in England by that American Company. The English
authorities are founded on the premises (i) that the passing off action is
essentially an action to protect the goodwill of the plaintiff and prevent its
invasion by the wrongful act of the defendant and (ii) that goodwill is the
business asset of the plaintiff acquired in a particular country, where its
protection is sought, by actually carrying on business there and by sales of
goods bearing the trade mark. Goodwill, as the subject of proprietary rights,
is incapable of subsisting by itself. It has no independent existence apart
from the business to which it is attached. It is local in character and
divisible; if the business is carried on in several countries a separate
goodwill attaches to it in each country. If there is no goodwill of the
plaintiff in England, there is nothing there to be protected by a passing off
action, even if the plaintiff's business has valuable goodwill elsewhere in
the world where it is carried on. Goodwill acquired in a country may, if the
business is abandoned there, cease to exist in that country, although, the
business may continue to be carried or in other countries.
"Budweiser" (supra) and the other English authorities did not find favour with
Canadian, Australian and Irish Courts. Now a Single Judge of our own High
Court in Apple Computer Inc. v. Apple Leasing, 1991(18) IPLR Delhi 63, has
also observed in this regard as under :-
"It is not necessary in the context of the present day circumstances, the free
exchange of information and advertising through newspapers, magazines, video,
television, movies, freedom of travel between various parts of the world, to
insist that a particular plaintiff must carry on business in a jurisdiction
before improper use of its name or make can be restrained by the Court ... In
passing off cases, the main consideration is the likelihood of confusion and
the consequential injury to the plaintiff, and the need to protect the public
from deception, deliberate or otherwise. Where such confusion or deception is
prima facie shown to exist, protection should be given by Courts to the name
or mark or goodwill of the plaintiff."
In this regard, learned Counsel referred to a judgment of this Court in Blue
Cross & Blue Shield Association v. Blue Cross Health Clinic & Ors. ((1990)
IPLR 92), amongst others. In that case, the plaintiffs had acquired ownership
of trade marks Blue Cross and Blue Shields as a result of business done in
India and also as a result of large scale advertisement that was made by them
in foreign periodical circulated in India. Plaintiffs had also entertained
claims lodged by the subscribers in India and as a result, their marks had
become well known in India. It was not a case based on purely spill over
reputation or a transporter reputation alone.
In William Grant & Sons Ltd. v. Mcdowell & Co. Ltd. (1994 III AD (Delhi) 65),
also, learned Single Judge has take note of the fact that the petitioners had
developed a firm association and business in India. They signed agreements
with several firms in India including DP Eduljee & Co., Pheerozeshah & Co.,
Jamsetjee & Co. and Bala Prashad & Sons as well as by Indian Tourist
Development Corporation, Taj Services Co., Hind Traders, Air India, Mohan Lall
& Co., Mohan Brothers, Cawasji Behramji & Co., East India Hotels Ltd. and
Embassy Stores, etc. and therefore again that was not a case of purely
transporter reputation. In WWF International v. Mahavir Spinning Mills Ltd.
(Suit No. 822/94, decided on 7-10-1994), by P. K. Bahri, J. referring to the
law laid down as under :
"Mere fact that the plaintiff has never manufactured any products in this
country does not prevent it from acquiring the goodwill here in its trade
mark. It is no doubt true that an action for passing off relates to the
business and it must be established that the plaintiff has a reputation or
goodwill of his business in this country. The foundation for the action for
passing off is the protection of goodwill and so, one must prove the existence
of goodwill in this country before obtaining a relief of passing off. The
principle of law of passing off has been also made applicable to non trading
business or non-profit making bodies as well".
From the above, while it is apparent that transporter reputation is taken into
consideration, but not without there being any evidence of use in this very
country.
One of us (R. C. Lahoti, J.) in Whirlpool Corporation & Anr. v. N. R. Dongre &
Ors. (supra) referred to American Jurisprudence and Halsbury's Laws of England
as well. We reproduce.
"15. On behalf of the defendants reliance is placed on the law stated in the
American Jurisprudence (74 American Jurisprudence 2nd, para 17 at pp 714-715)
which reads as under :
"17. Territorial extent of rights;
Although there is some authority to the effect that the right of property in a
trademark is not limited in its enjoyment by territorial bounds, the general
rule, in the absence of any statutory provision to the contrary, is that the
right of markets wherein it has become established as such by actual use. It
follows, under the general rule stated, that where the same mark or name has
been lawfully adopted and used by different persons in different localities,
neither may use the mark or name in competition with the other in territory
which is already occupied by such other.
A foreign trade mark depends for its protection in a particular country, upon
the law prevailing there, and will confer no rights except by consent of that
law. While an alien owner of a trade mark will ordinarily be protected against
infringement or unfair competition, the prior use of a trade mark in a foreign
country foes to entitle the owner thereof to claim exclusive trade mark rights
in the United States as against one who, in good faith, had adopted a like
trade mark for the same character of goods prior to the entry of the foreigner
into the domestic market.
16\. It will be useful also to notice the law summed up and stated in
Halsbury's Laws of England (Vol. 48, Paras 156 and 180) :
"156. Whether actual trade need have a commenced. A passing-off action can be
sustained prior to the actual commencement of trading by the plaintiff. A
plaintiff may acquire a substantial reputation prior to making sales of a
product or service because of advance advertising and press publicity and, in
such a case, may sue others who seek to trade on the reputation which he has
acquired. A company may in some circumstances acquire a reputation and
goodwill that is able to be protected even before its formal incorporation and
within hours of the announcement of its intended formation. Where a plaintiff
has incurred considerable expense making preparations for the launch of a
product which will rapidly acquire a reputation once launched, a defendant who
commences advertising before the plaintiff with the intention a defeating the
plaintiff's acquisition of an exclusive right to the mark concerned may be
restrained by a quia time injunction."
180\. Actions by foreign traders. A number of considerations arise when a
plaintiff seeks to restrain the use in the United Kingdom of a name, mark or
other indicia under which he has carried on business abroad. First, a
plaintiff in any case of passing off must prove a reputation extending to the
geographical area in which the defendant's use of the name, mark or other
indicia complained of is taking place, whether this is another part of the
country in which the plaintiff trades or in a different country, for if he has
no reputation in the United Kingdom then the defendant's use of a similar name
or mark cannot involve any misrepresentation. If the plaintiff can establish
that a substantial number of persons with whom the defendant intends to trade
in the United Kingdom know of the plaintiff and will believe that the
defendant's business is a branch of or connected with the plaintiff's
business, so that the element of misrepresentation is established, the
plaintiff must further show, as in any passing-off, the misrepresentation
poses a real and tangible risk of injury to his business or goodwill.
However, it is unclear whether there is an additional requirement that the
plaintiff must carry on business in, or at least have a trade extending to,
the country in which he seeks to restrain the defendant from using the mark or
name, or whether the geographical separation of the plaintiff's business, but
not impossible in all circumstances, for a plaintiff to show that the
defendant's activities are likely to cause him substantial. When is clear is
that a plaintiff who has no place of business in the United Kingdom and does
not directly trade there but whose goods are imported by others can acquire
reputation and goodwill that is able to be protected. A business carried on
abroad but which corresponds with customers in the United Kingdom can likewise
acquire a reputation and goodwill able to be protected.
It is more doubtful whether passing off can be established where the
plaintiff's goods or services are not marketed in the United Kingdom but his
customers who have come across his goods or services abroad reside in or come
to the United Kingdom, although in one such case an interlocutory injunction
was granted. However, it has been held that a plaintiff whose establishment in
Paris had been advertised in England through travel agents and who had some
customers in England who had visited Paris, could not maintain a passing off
action in England against a defendant who had adopted the name of the
plaintiff's establishment and used similar advertising with the intent of
exploiting the plaintiff's reputation, because goodwill could not be acquired
without actual user in England. This decision has been criticized as wrongly
decided and tenuous user in the United Kingdom has been treated as
justification for protection of a reputation primarily acquired by trade
abroad but the case has been cited with approval by the Court of Appeal.
The extent to which a reputation acquired by trading abroad may be protected
in the United Kingdom may depend to some extent upon whether a trade is to be
treated as a matter of law as having a separate goodwill in each country in
which he trades or whether the confining of goodwill to a particular country
or area is a question of fact depending on the trading patterns and
circumstances involved. If goodwill is to be treated as a matter of law as
stopping at frontiers there may still be cases where the defendant's
activities are likely to cause damage to the plaintiff's business in the
country or countries where he trades." In this very case, the case of WWF
International v. Mahavir Spinning Mills Ltd. (supra) was also referred to.
Relevant paragraphs of the judgment read as under :
19\. There is yet another very recent decision of the Court in WWF
International v. Mahavir Spinning Mills Ltd., Suit No. 822/94 decided on
7-10-1994 by P. K. Bahri, J. referring to the law laid down in Sears Roebuck &
Co. v. Happy House (TV) Mfg. Co. Ltd. & Ors. (1992 PTC 59).
19.1 Therein the plaintiff running retail stores chain in America under the
trade mark Sears had no physical presence in India nor had registration of
trade marks SEARS in India had brought an action restraining the defendant
from using the trade mark SEARS for marketing TVs. It was held, that unless
evidence is brought before the Court showing reputation and goodwill of the
plaintiff in India as a manufacturer of television and substantial evidence of
the reputation and goodwill of the plaintiff as a retail store India, the
injunction cannot be granted. Bahri, J. observed that judgment dealt with
totally different facts. Bahri, J. has further held :-
"Mere fact that the plaintiff has never manufactured any products in this
country does not prevent it from acquiring the goodwill here in its trade
mark. It is no doubt true that an action for passing off relates to the
business and it must be established that the plaintiff has a reputation or
goodwill of his business in this country. The foundation for the action for
passing off is the protection of goodwill and so, one must prove the existence
of goodwill in this country before obtaining a relief of passing off. The
principle of law of passing off has been also made applicable to non trading
business or non-profit making bodies as well"
19.2 Bahri, J. has further approved the view that trade mark law is not
intended to protect a person who deliberately sets out to take benefit of
somebody else's reputation with reference to goods especially so when the
reputation extends worldwide.
It would thus appear that there is conflict of approach between the "hard-line
or national approach" of the English authorities and the "liberal
international approach" of the Courts in other Commonwealth countries. We feel
that we must follow a middle course. We must readily support decisions which
seek to promote commercial morality and discourage unethical trade practices
of making such a situation where Indian purchaser/consumer starts presuming
franchise like connection between foreign products and Indian Products which
either cause confusion or which appear to be deceptively similar. Indian
Courts have consistently and rightly disapproved the attempt by Indian trade
and industry to bask in the warmth of, and make illicit profit from, a
reputation not earned legitimately by their own effort but built by others
elsewhere, by the short cut of trickery and passing off and thus protected not
only private rights but commercial morality and thus expanded the scope of
passing off action to meet that end. This approach is essential to protect the
interest of Indian users i.e. public in general. But, this approach must be
confined to some or similar products or at the most closely related products
and services. This approach cannot be extended to totally different kind of
products. In this later area, in order to protect national economic interest
English rigidity appears to be essential.
It is moreover somewhat odd and marks, not registered in India, not used in
India, with reputation not established in India by carrying on business in
India, would yet be protected in India on the basis that their reputation
elsewhere is known in this country due to publicity in the media, whereas the
statutory protection cannot be acquired for them in India for the reason that
they are neither used in India nor proposed to be used in India by a
registered proprietor or by a registered user. There appears to be a
contradiction here between the legislative policy requiring "user" for trade
mark protection against infringement and the liberal approach extending
protection to trade marks irrespective of user and above said limitations in
this country on the strength of reputation abroad hardly known in India
excepting those who are glued to cable TV.
The learned Counsel for the appellant also referred to Sections 30(1)(b) to
make out a case that acts of the appellant company do not constitute
infringement. In order to appreciate his argument. Section 30(1)(b) is
reproduced as below :
30\. Act not constituting infringement. - (1) Notwithstanding anything
contained in this Act, the following acts do not constitute an infringement of
the right to the use of a registered trade mark :
(a) ...
(b) The use by a person of a trade mark in relation to goods connected in the
course of trade with the proprietor or a registered user of the trade mark if,
as to those goods or a bulk of which they form part, the registered proprietor
or the registered user conforming to the permitted use has applied the trade
mark and has not subsequently removed or obliterated it, or has at any time
expressly or impliedly consented to the use of the trade mark."
It would be of help to the appellant only in case of present user after
unilateral revocation of collaboration, if the appellant/company is
"registered user" conforming to the permitted use and has applied the trade
mark. Since the appellant/company does not claim to be "registered user", it
is of no assistance to the appellant.
Section 33(a) has also been referred to by Dr. K. S. Sidhu to make out a case
that user of the trade mark by the appellants is saved. It does not appear to
be of any help to the appellants. Section 33(a) reads as under :
33\. Saving for vested rights-Nothing in this Act shall entitle the proprietor
or a registered user of a registered trade mark to interfere with or restrain
the use by any person of a trade mark identical with or nearly resembling it
in relation to goods in relation to which that person or a predecessor in
title of his has continuously used that trade mark from a date prior -
(a) to the use of the first mentioned trade mark in relation to those goods by
the proprietor or a predecessor in title of his; or
(b) to the date of registration of the first-mentioned trade mark in respect
of those goods in the name of the proprietor or a predecessor-in-title of his;
whichever is the earlier, and the Registrar shall not refuse (on such use
being proved) to register the second-mentioned trade mark by reason only of
the registration of the first-mentioned trade mark.
Clause (a) of the Section cannot be read dehors the phrase "whichever is
earlier". If both are read together, in the situations obtained in this case,
registration alone cold be prior in time. No evidence could possibly be given;
nor has been alleged or shown to the effect that either the appellant or
plaintiff/ respondent No. 2 has continuously used these registered trade marks
from a date prior to the date of registration of the trade mark of
plaintiff/respondent No. 1 in India. We need not repeat that appellant
collaborator is only licensee to use the trade marks, trade names, logos and
symbols (device) of Respondent No. 1 in connection with the manufacturer, use
and sale of the products of respondent No. 2 in India. Seeing the title of the
Section "saving for vested rights" it appears that this section is intended to
protect only right which pre-existed the registration of the registered trade
mark. Moreover, a licensee under the registered trade mark has no vested right
which could be saved. Therefore, this contention cannot be sustained.
An interesting question arises by reference to Section 35(a) of the Act :
whether registration of the word trade mark "Synthes" has now ceased to be
registered on account of continuous user by the appellant. It is not in
dispute that plaintiff respondent No. 1 is the registered proprietors of the
trade mark while the defendant/appellant is actual user of the trade mark in
India till the date of revocation of deed of collaboration, though
plaintiff/respondent Nos. 1 & 2 at the most advertised the same by organizing
seminars and special courses in India. Now, the impact of Section 35 may be
seen :
"35. Saving for words used as name or description of an article or substance -
(1) The registration of a trade mark shall not be deemed to have become
invalid by reason only of any use after the date of the registration of any
word or words which the trademark contains or of which it consists as the name
or description of an article or substance :
Provided that, if it is proved either -
(a) That there is a well-known and established of the said word as the name or
description of the article or substance by a person or persons carrying on a
trade therein, not being used in relation to goods connected in the course of
trade with the proprietor or a registered user of the trade mark or (in the
case of a certification trade mark) goods certified by the proprietor; or
(b) that the article or substance was formerly manufactured under a patent,
that a period of two years or more is the only practicable name or description
of the article of substance; the provisions of sub-section (2) shall apply.
(2) Where the facts mentioned in Clause (a) or Clause (b) of the proviso to
sub-section (1) are proved with respect to any words, then -
(a) for the purposes of any proceedings under Section 56 \-
(i) if the trade mark consists solely of such words, the registration of the
trade mark so far as regards registration in respect of the article or
substance in question or of any goods of the same description, shall be deemed
to be an entry wrongly remaining on the register;
(ii) if the trade mark contains such words and other matter, the tribunal in
deciding whether the trade mark shall remain on the register, so far as
regards registration in respect of the article or substance in a decision in
favour of its remaining of the register, require as the condition thereof that
the proprietor shall disclaim any exclusive right to the use in relation to
that article or substance and any goods of the same description, or such words
:
Provided that no disclaimer shall affect any rights of the proprietor of a
trade mark except such as arise out of the registration of the trade mark in
respect of which the disclaimer is made;
(b) for the purposes of any other legal proceeding relating to the trade mark
-
(i) if the trade mark consists solely of such words, all rights of the
proprietor under this Act or any other law to the use of the trade mark in
relation to the article or substance in question or to any goods of the same
description;
(ii) if the trade mark contains such words and other matter, all such rights
of the proprietor to the use of such words, in such relation as aforesaid;
shall be deemed to have ceased on the date at which the use mentioned in
Clause (a) of the proviso to sub-section (1) first became well-known and
established, or at the expiration of the period of two years mentioned in
Clause (b) of the said proviso.
The goods were either manufactured by the appellant or by Respondent No. 2.
Their extensive use of the trade mark in India is indicative of a "well-known
established use of the word "Synthes" by a person carrying on trade therein,
"not being used in relation to goods connected in the trade with the
proprietor or registered user of trade mark or (in the case of a certification
trade mark) goods certified by the proprietor".
We may mention that simple advertisement through Seminars and special courses
even by the Respondent No. 1 would not be use of the word trade mark "Synthes"
in relation to trade in these goods. Consequently, the case is covered by
proviso (a) to Section 35 and sub-section (2) is attracted, and for the
purpose of any proceedings under Section 56, the entry of registration shall
either be deemed to be wrongly remaining on the register or the proprietor
shall disclaim any exclusive right. Not only this, even for the purpose of any
other legal proceeding, including the present one relating to the trade mark,
all rights of the proprietor under the Act or any other law "shall be deemed
to have ceased on the date at which the use mentioned in Clause (a) of the
proviso to sub-section (i) first become well-known and established".
Learned senior Counsel for the appellant has also drawn our attention to
Section 44(2) to argue that no note could be taken of licence or assignment in
favour of plaintiff/respondent No. 2. Section 48 provides for registration of
"Registered user" to continue trafficking in trade mark. Sub-section (3)
provides that permitted use shall enure to the benefit of owner of the trade
mark "Permitted use" has restricted meaning in view of the definition. Section
48 reads as under :
"48. Registered users. - (1) Subject to the provisions of Section 49, a person
other than the registered proprietor of a trade mark may be registered as the
registered user thereof in respect of any or all the goods in respect of which
the trade mark is registered otherwise than as a defensive trade mark; but the
Central Government may, by rules made in this behalf, provide that no
application for registration as such shall be entertained unless the agreement
between the parties complies with the conditions laid down in the rules for
preventing trafficking in trade marks :
(2) The permitted use of a trade mark shall be deemed to be used by the
proprietor thereof, and shall be deemed not to be used by a person other than
the proprietor, for the purposes of Section 46 or for any other purpose for
which such use is material under this Act or any other law.
It is also desirable here in refer to Sections 37 and 38 of the Act. They read
as under :
37\. Assignability and transmissibility of registered trade marks-
Notwithstanding anything in any other law to the contrary, a registered trade
mark shall, subject to the provisions of this Chapter, be assignable and
transmissible, whether with or without the goodwill of the business concerned
and in respect either of all the goods in respect of which the trade mark is
registered or of some only of those goods.
38\. Assignability and transmissibility of unregistered trade marks - (1) An
unregistered trade mark shall not be assignable or transmissible except
alongwith the goodwill of the business concerned.
(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1), an unregistered
trade mark may be assigned or transmitted otherwise than alongwith the
business concerned it -
(a) at the time of assignment or transmission of the unregistered trade mark,
it is used in the same business as a registered trade mark; and
(b) the registered trade mark is assigned or transmitted at the same time and
to the same person as the unregistered trade mark; and
(c) the unregistered trade mark relates to goods in respect of which the
registered trade mark is assigned or transmitted."
It is notable that the term "assignment" has been defined in Section 2(1)(a)
of the Act which reads as under :
2\. (1) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires -
(a) "assignment" means an assignment in writing by act of the parties
concerned;"
No assignment in writing was incorporated in the collaboration agreement as
case of both the parties was that collaboration agreement had nothing to do
with the existing trade marks and the Clause 11 of the agreement related only
to trade marks which might have been acquired by the parties after entering
into the collaboration agreement. These trade marks were admittedly in use
outside India before the collaboration agreement.
Section 44(2) reads as under :
"44. Registration of assignments and transmissions - (1) ...
(2) Except for the purpose of an application before the Registrar under sub-
section (1) or an appeal from an order thereon, or an application under
Section 56 or an appeal from an order thereon, a document or instrument in
respect of which no entry has been made in the register in accordance with
sub-section (1), shall not be admitted in evidence by the Registrar or any
Court in proof of title to the trade mark by assignment or transmission unless
the Registrar or the Court, as the case may be, otherwise directs.
We need not mention that unregistered Trade Mark "AO/ASIF" is not assignable
and transmissible except alongwith the goodwill of the business concerned.
Exceptions provided under sub-section (2) of Section 38 are not applicable. So
far as registered Trade Marks device and word "Synthes" are concerned, they
could have been assigned.
This Section 44(2) leads to infer that no document relating to title of any of
the trade marks "Synthes" Synthes device and AO/ASIS not being registered
under Section 44(1) shall be admitted in evidence by the Registrar or any
Court in proof of title to the trade mark by assignment or transmission unless
the Registrar or the Court, as the case may be otherwise direct". Could we, in
the aforesaid circumstances, take cognizance of licence granted by
plaintiff/respondent No. 2 to plaintiff/respondent No. 1 ? Should we direct
otherwise and consider the plea in view of admission by conduct of the
appellant ? We think this is not the stage to decide this question either way
for the present purpose.
Section 46 relates to rectification/removal from Register and imposition of
limitation on ground of non-use. Here, it would suffice to say that no such
application is pending before this Court and the appellant have lost a case in
Calcutta High Court in this connection. But appeal is said to be pending
against that order. Moreover, there are six other suits pending in Jaipur
Courts relating to collaboration agreement etc. Even plea of Section 10, CPC
to stay these suits have been taken, but without producing copy of plaint,
written statement and replication. Consequently, it is not possible to accept
the plea of stay.
Section 48(2) of the Act has been referred to by learned Counsel for both the
parties to buttress their respective arguments. Section 48 contains a
beneficial provision for the purpose of preventing trafficking in trade mark.
Consequently, neither there could be an assignment of unregistered trade mark
in view of Section 48(2) nor was there any assignment of registered trade mark
under Section 48(1). Therefore, Section 48(2) cannot help the appellant at
all. Things might have been totally different in case the registered trade
mark was assigned in writing, and assignment was registered as well.
For the foregoing reasons, while it is apparent that the appellants were using
the registered trade marks, without there being any agreement to use the same.
On the goods imported from appellant/respondent No. 2 as well as on their own
products manufactured in India, however, with the knowledge and consent of at
least plaintiff/respondent No. 2, there was not even resemblance or control of
the proprietor of the trade marks, the imported goods as well as the goods
which were being produced in India had no relation whatsoever with the
proprietor of the trade mark. The appellant is using a mark which is the same
as the plaintiff's registered trade mark. No distinction is even pleaded by
the appellant. Conditions enumerated in Gujarat Bottling Company's case
(supra) and American Home Remedies' case (supra), for the purpose of keeping
the trade mark intact, so that user by the appellant in India should ensure to
the benefit of the plaintiff/respondent No. 1, have not been satisfied for
want of distinctiveness of the trade mark in relation to the goods. The user
would neither under the Trade Marks Act under the common law, ensure to the
benefit of plaintiff/respondent No. 1. This would relate to the registered
trade mark of device and the word "synthes".
So far as the passing off action is concerned, the defendant is selling the
goods in the market so marked as to be designed and calculated to lead the
purchasers to believe that they have been manufactured, if not imported, at
least under the franchise agreement with plaintiff/respondent No. 2. And the
High Court cannot allow such a user to protect purchasing public or the
consumer. This relates to unregistered trade marks AO/ASIF.
In neither of these two cases, the appellant claims to innovate these trade
marks. It is evident that they used these trade marks with the implied
permission of plaintiff/respondent No. 2 without claiming to be the owner of
the trade mark till the cancellation of the collaboration agreement. Now, the
appellant cannot be allowed to claim these trade marks as its own on the basis
of the aforesaid user. However, the High Court cannot continuance the user of
these trade marks by the appellant in the aforesaid circumstances and we
disapprove the attempt of the appellant to continue to bask in the warmth and
make illicit profit from a reputation built by plaintiff/respondent No. 2
elsewhere, after the cancellation of the agreement. This is necessity of
commercial morality and a necessary to protect the interests of Indian users,
i.e. public in general for, same products originating from two difference
sources cannot be allowed to be sold under the same trade name and trade mark.
Public interest, national economic interest as well as commercial morality are
the predominant factors which are prevailing with us while deciding these
FAOs. No doubt, the appellants are likely to suffer a setback and their
efforts during the last 16 years are also likely to go waste but that is the
bargain of collaboration agreement entered upon by them. It is also notable
that the appellants have not paid even the admitted amounts for the material,
instruments and implants etc. purchased from plaintiff/respondent No. 2
Consequently, even equity does not permit the High Court to interfere with the
impugned orders. Accordingly, we dismiss both the FAOs.
FAOs. dismissed.
the trade mark till the cancellation of the collaboration agreement. Now, the
appellant cannot be allowed to claim these trade marks as its own on the basis
of the aforesaid user. However, the High Court cannot continuance the user of
these trade marks by the appellant in the aforesaid circumstances and we
disapprove the attempt of the appellant to continue to bask in the warmth and
make illicit profit from a reputation built by plaintiff/respondent No. 2
elsewhere, after the cancellation of the agreement. This is necessity of
commercial morality and a necessary to protect the interests of Indian users,
i.e. public in general for, same products originating from two difference
sources cannot be allowed to be sold under the same trade name and trade mark.
Public interest, national economic interest as well as commercial morality are
the predominant factors which are prevailing with us while deciding these
FAOs. No doubt, the appellants are likely to suffer a setback and their
efforts during the last 16 years are also likely to go waste but that is the
bargain of collaboration agreement entered upon by them. It is also notable
that the appellants have not paid even the admitted amounts for the material,
deception or may amount to passing off the goods of the defendants for those
of the plaintiffs.
On I.A. No. 3419/93 in Suit No. 708/93 for infringement action, learned Single
Judge passed similar order restraining the appellants from using the
registered trade mark "Synthes" or any other similar mark amounting to
infringement of the trade mark causing confusion or deception or amounting to
passing off.
F.A.O. No. 192/96 has been filed against the injunction order on I.A. No.
3419/93 in Suit No. 709/93 in infringement action, while F.A.O. No. 193/96
relates to I.A. No. 3420/ 93 in Suit No. 708/93, in passing off action.
Undisputed/unchallenged facts common to both the matters 2.1. In so far as
factual matrix is concerned, one Robert Mathys, a Swiss mechanical engineer,
is said to be the force in development of surgical instruments and orthopedic
implants, etc. made of special steels and formation of the Association of
Study of Internal Fixation (AO/ASIF) as well as Synthes A. G. Chur
plaintiff/respondent No. 1. Robert Mathys along with his son Renauld Mathys
founded a partnership firm M/s. Robert Mathys Company in Bettlach Switzerland
(the predecessor in interest of respondent No. 2) in 1946. In 1958 they
entered the field of the development and manufacture of machinery and
apparatus including surgical instruments and orthopedic implants and similar
the trade mark till the cancellation of the collaboration agreement. Now, the
appellant cannot be allowed to claim these trade marks as its own on the basis
of the aforesaid user. However, the High Court cannot continuance the user of
these trade marks by the appellant in the aforesaid circumstances and we
disapprove the attempt of the appellant to continue to bask in the warmth and
make illicit profit from a reputation built by plaintiff/respondent No. 2
elsewhere, after the cancellation of the agreement. This is necessity of
commercial morality and a necessary to protect the interests of Indian users,
i.e. public in general for, same products originating from two difference
sources cannot be allowed to be sold under the same trade name and trade mark.
Public interest, national economic interest as well as commercial morality are
the predominant factors which are prevailing with us while deciding these
FAOs. No doubt, the appellants are likely to suffer a setback and their
efforts during the last 16 years are also likely to go waste but that is the
bargain of collaboration agreement entered upon by them. It is also notable
that the appellants have not paid even the admitted amounts for the material,
deception or may amount to passing off the goods of the defendants for those
of the plaintiffs.
On I.A. No. 3419/93 in Suit No. 708/93 for infringement action, learned Single
Judge passed similar order restraining the appellants from using the
registered trade mark "Synthes" or any other similar mark amounting to
infringement of the trade mark causing confusion or deception or amounting to
passing off.
F.A.O. No. 192/96 has been filed against the injunction order on I.A. No.
3419/93 in Suit No. 709/93 in infringement action, while F.A.O. No. 193/96
relates to I.A. No. 3420/ 93 in Suit No. 708/93, in passing off action.
Undisputed/unchallenged facts common to both the matters 2.1. In so far as
factual matrix is concerned, one Robert Mathys, a Swiss mechanical engineer,
is said to be the force in development of surgical instruments and orthopedic
implants, etc. made of special steels and formation of the Association of
Study of Internal Fixation (AO/ASIF) as well as Synthes A. G. Chur
plaintiff/respondent No. 1. Robert Mathys along with his son Renauld Mathys
founded a partnership firm M/s. Robert Mathys Company in Bettlach Switzerland
(the predecessor in interest of respondent No. 2) in 1946. In 1958 they
entered the field of the development and manufacture of machinery and
apparatus including surgical instruments and orthopedic implants and similar
the trade mark till the cancellation of the collaboration agreement. Now, the
appellant cannot be allowed to claim these trade marks as its own on the basis
of the aforesaid user. However, the High Court cannot continuance the user of
these trade marks by the appellant in the aforesaid circumstances and we
disapprove the attempt of the appellant to continue to bask in the warmth and
make illicit profit from a reputation built by plaintiff/respondent No. 2
elsewhere, after the cancellation of the agreement. This is necessity of
commercial morality and a necessary to protect the interests of Indian users,
i.e. public in general for, same products originating from two difference
sources cannot be allowed to be sold under the same trade name and trade mark.
Public interest, national economic interest as well as commercial morality are
the predominant factors which are prevailing with us while deciding these
FAOs. No doubt, the appellants are likely to suffer a setback and their
efforts during the last 16 years are also likely to go waste but that is the
bargain of collaboration agreement entered upon by them. It is also notable
that the appellants have not paid even the admitted amounts for the material,
deception or may amount to passing off the goods of the defendants for those
of the plaintiffs.
On I.A. No. 3419/93 in Suit No. 708/93 for infringement action, learned Single
Judge passed similar order restraining the appellants from using the
registered trade mark "Synthes" or any other similar mark amounting to
infringement of the trade mark causing confusion or deception or amounting to
passing off.
F.A.O. No. 192/96 has been filed against the injunction order on I.A. No.
3419/93 in Suit No. 709/93 in infringement action, while F.A.O. No. 193/96
relates to I.A. No. 3420/ 93 in Suit No. 708/93, in passing off action.
Undisputed/unchallenged facts common to both the matters 2.1. In so far as
factual matrix is concerned, one Robert Mathys, a Swiss mechanical engineer,
is said to be the force in development of surgical instruments and orthopedic
implants, etc. made of special steels and formation of the Association of
Study of Internal Fixation (AO/ASIF) as well as Synthes A. G. Chur
plaintiff/respondent No. 1. Robert Mathys along with his son Renauld Mathys
founded a partnership firm M/s. Robert Mathys Company in Bettlach Switzerland
(the predecessor in interest of respondent No. 2) in 1946. In 1958 they
entered the field of the development and manufacture of machinery and
apparatus including surgical instruments and orthopedic implants and similar
other components made of special steels. On 15th April 1978, the firm entered
into a collaboration agreement with N. P. Dhawan and R. M. Dhawan, proprietors
of the appellant Company. On 20-4-1990 M/s. Robert Mathys Company was
converted into a corporate body and Mathys Limited Bettlach R. 2 came to be
incorporated.
2.2. In 1958 the Association of Study of Internal Fixation (ASIF) was founded
with the object of studying internal fixation and its bio-mechanical
prerequisites and pitfalls relating to regaining of the complete function of
injured limbs by anatomic reduction, stable fixation and early mobilization.
These two letters 'AO' of the trade mark (unregistered) are the acronyms
formed from initial letters of two German words 'Arbits genunis schatt" and
the trade mark till the cancellation of the collaboration agreement. Now, the
appellant cannot be allowed to claim these trade marks as its own on the basis
of the aforesaid user. However, the High Court cannot continuance the user of
these trade marks by the appellant in the aforesaid circumstances and we
disapprove the attempt of the appellant to continue to bask in the warmth and
make illicit profit from a reputation built by plaintiff/respondent No. 2
elsewhere, after the cancellation of the agreement. This is necessity of
commercial morality and a necessary to protect the interests of Indian users,
i.e. public in general for, same products originating from two difference
sources cannot be allowed to be sold under the same trade name and trade mark.
Public interest, national economic interest as well as commercial morality are
the predominant factors which are prevailing with us while deciding these
FAOs. No doubt, the appellants are likely to suffer a setback and their
efforts during the last 16 years are also likely to go waste but that is the
bargain of collaboration agreement entered upon by them. It is also notable
that the appellants have not paid even the admitted amounts for the material,
deception or may amount to passing off the goods of the defendants for those
of the plaintiffs.
On I.A. No. 3419/93 in Suit No. 708/93 for infringement action, learned Single
Judge passed similar order restraining the appellants from using the
registered trade mark "Synthes" or any other similar mark amounting to
infringement of the trade mark causing confusion or deception or amounting to
passing off.
F.A.O. No. 192/96 has been filed against the injunction order on I.A. No.
3419/93 in Suit No. 709/93 in infringement action, while F.A.O. No. 193/96
relates to I.A. No. 3420/ 93 in Suit No. 708/93, in passing off action.
Undisputed/unchallenged facts common to both the matters 2.1. In so far as
factual matrix is concerned, one Robert Mathys, a Swiss mechanical engineer,
is said to be the force in development of surgical instruments and orthopedic
implants, etc. made of special steels and formation of the Association of
Study of Internal Fixation (AO/ASIF) as well as Synthes A. G. Chur
plaintiff/respondent No. 1. Robert Mathys along with his son Renauld Mathys
founded a partnership firm M/s. Robert Mathys Company in Bettlach Switzerland
(the predecessor in interest of respondent No. 2) in 1946. In 1958 they
entered the field of the development and manufacture of machinery and
apparatus including surgical instruments and orthopedic implants and similar
other components made of special steels. On 15th April 1978, the firm entered
into a collaboration agreement with N. P. Dhawan and R. M. Dhawan, proprietors
of the appellant Company. On 20-4-1990 M/s. Robert Mathys Company was
converted into a corporate body and Mathys Limited Bettlach R. 2 came to be
incorporated.
2.2. In 1958 the Association of Study of Internal Fixation (ASIF) was founded
with the object of studying internal fixation and its bio-mechanical
prerequisites and pitfalls relating to regaining of the complete function of
injured limbs by anatomic reduction, stable fixation and early mobilization.
These two letters 'AO' of the trade mark (unregistered) are the acronyms
formed from initial letters of two German words 'Arbits genunis schatt" and
the trade mark till the cancellation of the collaboration agreement. Now, the
appellant cannot be allowed to claim these trade marks as its own on the basis
of the aforesaid user. However, the High Court cannot continuance the user of
these trade marks by the appellant in the aforesaid circumstances and we
disapprove the attempt of the appellant to continue to bask in the warmth and
make illicit profit from a reputation built by plaintiff/respondent No. 2
elsewhere, after the cancellation of the agreement. This is necessity of
commercial morality and a necessary to protect the interests of Indian users,
i.e. public in general for, same products originating from two difference
sources cannot be allowed to be sold under the same trade name and trade mark.
Public interest, national economic interest as well as commercial morality are
the predominant factors which are prevailing with us while deciding these
FAOs. No doubt, the appellants are likely to suffer a setback and their
efforts during the last 16 years are also likely to go waste but that is the
bargain of collaboration agreement entered upon by them. It is also notable
that the appellants have not paid even the admitted amounts for the material,
