Madras High Court
The Periyar Self Respect ... vs Periyar Dravidar Kazhagam on 9 June, 2010
     IN THE HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE AT MADRAS
    Dated :    09..06...2010
    Coram
    The Honourable Mr.Justice F.M.IBRAHIM KALIFULLA
    and
    The Honourable Mr.Justice N.KIRUBAKARAN
    Original Suit Appeal Nos.232 of 2009 and 23 of 2010
    OSA.No. 232 of 2009
    The Periyar Self Respect propaganda Institution
    rep. by its Secretary Thiru K.Veeramani
    No.50, EVK Sampath Road
    Veppery, Chennai 600 007.				.. Appellant 
    vs.
    1. Periyar Dravidar Kazhagam
        rep. by its President T.S.Mani
        Office No. 1, Kamarajar Salai
        Mylapore, Chennai 600 004.
    2. K.Ramakrishnan, 
copyright in any work shall be valid unless it is in writing and signed by the
assignor or his duly authorised agent." (Emphasis added)
47\. Reliance was also placed upon the decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court
reported in AIR 1977 SC 1443 (Indian Performing Right Society vs. Eastern
India Motion Picture Association). While interpreting Section 18 of the
Copyright Act, the Hon'ble Supreme Court has held as under:
"8. .... the first part of the question should be answered in the affirmative.
It is accordingly held that an existing and future right of music composer and
lyricist in their respective 'works' as defined in the Act is capable of
assignment subject to the conditions mentioned in S.18 of the Act, as also in
S.19 of the Act, which requires an assignment to be in writing, signed by the
assignor or by his duly authorised agent." (Emphasis added)
48\. For all the above stated reasons, we do not find any scope to interfere
with the order of the learned single Judge. The interim order of status-quo
granted while entertaining the O.S.A. therefore stands dismissed. The appeals
fail and the same are dismissed.
    2. K.Ramakrishnan, 
        General Secretary
        Periyar Dravidar Kazhagam
        Office No. 1, Kamarajar Salai
        Mylapore, Chennai 600 004. 				.. Respondents 
    	Appeal against the order and decree dated 27.07.2009 made in Original Application No.940 of 2008 in C.S. No.814 of 2008 on the file of this Court. 
    		For Appellant	:  Mr.A.Thiagarajan, Senior Counsel
    					    for Mr.V.R.Shanmuganathan
    		For Respondents:  Mr.S.Doraisamy for R1
    					    Mr.R.Thiagarajan, Senior Counsel
    					    for Mrs.Gladys Daniel for R2
    					---
    OSA.No. 23 of 2010
    Thanjavur Pagutharivalar Kazhagam
    rep. by its PresidentThiru. R. Rathinagiri
    488, East Rampart, 
    Thanjavur  613 001.					.. Appellant
    vs.
    1. The Periyar Self Respect propaganda Institution
        rep. by its Secretary Thiru K.Veeramani
        No.50, EVK Sampath Road
        Veppery, Chennai 600 007.				
    2. Periyar Dravidar Kazhagam
        rep. by its President T.S.Mani
        Office No. 1, Kamarajar Salai
        Mylapore, Chennai 600 004.
    3. K.Ramakrishnan, 
        General Secretary
        Periyar Dravidar Kazhagam
        Office No. 1, Kamarajar Salai
        Mylapore, Chennai 600 004. 				.. Respondents 
    	Appeal against the order and decree dated 29.01.2009 made in Application No.4331 of 2008 in C.S. No.814 of 2008 on the file of this Court. 
    		For Appellant	:  Mr.K.V.Venkatapathy, Senior Counsel
    					    for Mr.S.Shankaran.
    		For Respondents:  Mr.D.Veerasekaran for R1
    					    Mr.V.Elangovan for R2
    					    Mr.D.Rajkumar for R3
    					---
    COMMON JUDGMENT
    F.M.IBRAHIM KALIFULLA,J.
O.S.A. No.232 of 2009 has been preferred challenging the order dated
27.07.2009 passed in Original Application No.940 of 2008 in C.S. No.814 of
2008. O.S.A. No.23 of 2010 has been preferred against the order dated
29.01.2009 passed in Application No.4331 of 2008 in C.S. No.814 of 2008. By
order dated 29.01.2009 passed in A.No.4331 of 2008, the learned Single Judge
dismissed the application of the appellant in O.S.A. No.23 of 2010 for getting
itself impleaded in the suit for infringement of copy rights laid by the
appellant in O.S.A. No.232 of 2009. By order dated 27.07.2009, in the
application of the appellant in O.S.A. No.232 of 2009 seeking an order of ad-
interim injunction restraining the respondents in the said suit from in any
manner infringing the copyrights of the appellant relating to Kudiyarasu and
other scripts, books, publications pending suit, the learned Single Judge
dismissed the application. As the issues involved in both these appeals are
interconnected, both the appeals are disposed of by this common judgment.
2\. According to the appellant in O.S.A. No.232 of 2009, (hereinafter referred
to as "the appellant"), it is a Public Charitable Society (Trust) registered
under the Societies Registration Act, 1860, that Thiru. Erode Venkatanaickar
Ramasamy, popularly known as Thanthai Periyar, was the founder and member of
the appellant-trust, which was registered on 23.9.1952, that he was the Life
President of the appellant trust, that Thanthai Periyar endowed his literary
works and as its original owner along with other properties endowed them to
the appellant trust, that he was also carrying on the paper publication, that
by operation of law, the appellant trust became the copyright owner of all the
literary works of Thanthai Periyar. It is claimed by the appellant trust that
as per the Memorandum and Articles of Association of the appellant trust and
also its Rules and Regulations, the appellant trust became an exclusive and
absolute owner of all the literary works of late Thanthai Periyar. It is
claimed that the speeches, writings and other literary works of Thanthai
Periyar were periodically published in the Weekly called Kudiyarasu owned by
Thanthai Periyar from the year 1925. It is further claimed that the literary
works of late Thanthai Periyar from 1925 was arranged chronologically and
subject wise by a team of persons nominated by the appellant trust on
02.05.1983 headed by one Thiru.G.Imayavaramban which team carried the work of
compiling the literary works of Thanthai Periyar which was later on
transferred into compact Disc as well as in book form, to which the appellant-
trust became an exclusive owner and consequently, possessed copyrights from
the original owner late Thanthai Periyar. It is stated that the respondents in
OSA.No. 232 of 2009, (hereinafter referred to as 'the respondents'), by
collecting the compilation made by the appellant trust, intended to publish
the same on 17.9.2008 and since the said attempt of the respondents would
infringe the exclusive copyrights of the appellant trust, it had come forward
with the present suit for permanent injunction to restrain them and any one
acting on their behalf from in any manner infringing the copyrights of the
appellant trust relating to Kudiyarasu and other scripts, books, publications
etc.
3\. The cause of action, according to the appellant trust was an interview
published in a bi-weekly called "Kumudam Reporter" dated 21.08.2008. It was
published under the caption 'Periyar Yaaruku Sontham', wherein it was
disclosed that they intended to publish the Kudiyarasu on 17.09.2008. As such,
the appellant sought for permanent injunction in the suit as well as sought
for award of damages of Rs.15 lakhs. The appellant trust also filed an
Application No.940 of 2008 for an ad-interim injunction pending suit.
4\. Initially by order dated 28.08.2008, the first respondent was directed to
maintain status quo until further orders and the application was directed to
be posted on 01.09.2008. Subsequently, by order dated 16.09.2008, passed in
O.A. No.940 of 2008 and in Application No.4331 of 2008 in C.S. No.814 of 2008,
both the defendants were directed to maintain status quo until further orders
and that all the respondents were directed not to sell the books till the
court dispose of the application seeking an order of injunction. The
applications were directed to be posted on 18.09.2008. Subsequently, on
22.10.2008, the order to maintain status quo was extended till 31.10.2008 and
the application was also posted on that date. A detailed counter affidavit was
filed by the first respondent on 05.09.2008. The second respondent filed his
counter affidavit on 07.09.2008.
5\. Be that as it may, the appellant in O.S.A. No.23 of 2010 came forward with
an application in A. No.4331 of 2008, seeking to get itself impleaded in the
main suit as well as in the interim application on the footing that he is the
President of the appellant in O.S.A. No.23 of 2010, that since according to
the second defendant in the suit, the copy of the book intended to be
published by the first defendant in the suit was stated to have been obtained
from the appellant in O.S.A. No.23 of 2010 and since he had personal knowledge
about the said issue, he should also allowed to be impleaded as a party in the
suit as well as in the application. The application for impleading the
appellant in O.S.A. No.23 of 2010 was resisted by both the respondents in
O.S.A. No.232 of 2009. In the order dated 29.01.2009, the learned Judge after
considering the rival contentions of the parties, noted that the issue before
the Court related to the ownership of the copyrights of the work of Thanthai
Periyar, that the appellant in O.S.A. No.23 of 2010 did not claim exclusive
copyrights over the work of Thanthai Periyar, and his claim that he assisted
in the Herculean task of compiling the work of Thanthai Periyar and since it
was the admitted case of the appellant trust that he is under their control,
at best, he can be examined as a star witness in the suit and he cannot claim
any participatory role in the lis which is seriously contested by the
respondents in O.S.A. No.232 of 2009. Based on such a decision the learned
Judge held that there was no right for the appellant in O.S.A. No.23 of 2010
to invoke Order 1 Rule 10 for getting himself impleaded in the suit as well as
in the application. The learned Judge therefore held that it was neither a
necessary party, nor a proper party to the suit which can be thrashed out even
without the association of the appellant in O.S.A. No.23 of 2010 as a party.
6\. Having heard Mr.K.V.Venkatapathy, learned Senior Counsel for the appellant
in O.S.A. No.23 of 2010, learned counsel for the respondents 2 and 3 and
having perused the order in A.No.4331 of 2008, we are not inclined to take a
different view from what has been stated by the learned Judge in the order
dated 29.01.2009 passed in Application No.4331 of 2008. As rightly held by the
learned Judge, the core issue involved in the suit, as well as, in the
application related to ownership of copyrights of the literary works of late
Thanthai Periyar, as claimed by the appellant trust vis-a-vis the respondents.
The sum and substance of the claim of the appellant in O.S.A. No.23 of 2010 is
that there was a statement made by one of the respondents that copy of the
compilation of the literary works of Thanthai Periyar was collected from the
appellant in O.S.A.No.23 of 2010 and according to the said appellant, such
compilation was owned by the appellant trust. On that basis, it cannot be even
remotely held that the said appellant in O.S.A. No.23 of 2010 will become a
necessary and proper party. It cannot also be held that without the presence
of the said appellant, the court will not be able to effectively adjudicate
upon all the questions involved in the suit. As has been noted by the learned
Judge, based on the slender claim of the appellant in O.S.A. No.23 of 2010,
there was no scope to hold that it was absolutely necessary to order the
impleading of the said appellant. We, therefore, do not find any merit at all
in the said appeal seeking to challenge the order of the learned Single Judge
dated 29.01.2009 passed in Application No.4331 of 2008 and the appeal,
therefore, accordingly stands dismissed.
7\. When we consider the challenge made in O.S.A. No.232 of 2009, we find that
the application for interim injunction made in O.A. No.940 of 2008 was
elaborately heard by the learned Single Judge, who, in his eloquent judgment,
ultimately held that there was no case made out to continue the interim
injunction granted earlier. The learned Judge also held that the issue raised
is covered by the exemption provided under Section 52(1)(m) of the Copyright
Act, 1957 and dismissed the application.
8\. We heard Mr.A.Thiyagarajan, learned senior counsel for
Mr.V.R.Shanmuganathan, counsel for the appellant trust, Mr.S.Doraiswami,
learned counsel for the first respondent and Mr.R.Thiyagarajan, learned senior
counsel for Mrs.Gladys Daniel, learned counsel for the second respondent.
9\. Mr.A.Thiyagarajan, learned senior counsel, in his submissions contended
that the Memorandum and Articles of Association as well as the Rules and
Regulations of the appellant trust, which was registered under the Societies
Registration Act on 23.09.1952 contained a Clause viz., Clause 22 in the Rules
and Regulations, which specifically stated that the Life members of the
Executive Committee of the appellant trust alone shall be the trustees of the
properties already endowed by Thanthai Periyar as well as the properties to be
acquired thereafter for the institution, which made it clear that the literary
works of Thanthai Periyar, which were part of the objects of the the appellant
trust as per the Memorandum and Articles of Association, and consequently,
such literary works of Thanthai Periyar, which were published in the various
journals between 1925 and 1949 were owned by Thanthai Periyar inclusive of its
copyrights and that after his death on 24.12.1973, such ownership continue to
vest with the appellant trust and therefore, the compilations of such writings
and speeches of Thanthai Periyar made at the instance of the appellant trust
should be held to be owned by the appellant trust with its copyrights and
consequently, the respondents should be injuncted from making the intended
publications as reported by them in the "Kumudam Reporter" dated 21.8.2008.
10\. In support of such submissions, the learned counsel also relied upon the
following instances:-
(i) The editorial in the Newspaper 'Viduthalai' dated 02.10.1952, in which
Thanthai Periyar was an Editor, wherein a reference was made to the properties
of the appellant trust. The said editorial contained the statement to the
effect that, VERNACULAR (TAMIL) PORTION DELETED
(ii) The Articles published in the Annual Digest of the appellant trust
magazine dated 2.5.1983 which stated that the compilations of the writings and
speeches and anecdotes of Thanthai Periyar from the year 1925 was carried out
under the leadership of Puzhavar Ko. Imayavaramban and along with him several
other persons.
(iii) A news item in the daily newspaper called Viduthalai dated 22.11.2000
which stated that the articles published in Kudiyarasu between the years 1928
and 1931 had been compiled in a compact disk form.
(iv) The announcement made by the second respondent in "Kumudham Reporter"
dated 21.8.2008, wherein it was stated to the effect that, VERNACULAR (TAMIL)
PORTION DELETED
(v) A Foreword written by one V.Aanaimuthu in a publication called "Periyar
E.V.Ra Chinthanaihal", which disclose that Thanthai Periyar agreed on 9.1.1972
to allow him to compile his speeches and writings based on which a compilation
was made by him, which he did between September 1972 and February 1973. The
said Foreword also stated that in the compilation, the signature of Thanthai
Periyar acknowledging his approval was also obtained.
(vi) The pamphlets with its Annexures 1 to 3 published by the first
respondent, which disclose that even as admitted by the first respondent, the
writings and speeches of Thanthai Periyar were compiled at the instance of the
Dravida Kazhagam, which constituted a Committee under the leadership of
Imayavaramban in the year 1983, who handed over the compilation to the
appellant trust.
11\. Based on the above instances, learned senior counsel contended that what
was sought to be published by the respondents on 17.09.2008, as reported in
the Magazine "Kumadham Reporter" dated 21.8.2008 was nothing, but the verbatic
reproduction of the compilation made by the appellant trust, for which the
copyright was owned by it. Learned senior counsel submitted that having regard
to the Clause in the Memorandum of Association as well as in the Rules and
Regulations of the appellant trust, when the writings and articles of Thanthai
Periyar were part of the properties of the appellant trust, right from the
date of its inception, the said right which was originally owned by Thanthai
Periyar as founder member of the appellant trust got transferred with all the
rights existed in it, including the ownership of the copyrights to the
appellant trust and after the demise of Thanthai Periyar, the entire
compilation made by the appellant trust should be held to be the property of
the appellant trust with all the copyrights ownership embedded in it. Learned
senior counsel contended that the respondents had no right to reproduce the
said compilation as claimed by them in the pamphlets as well as in the
reported news dated 21.8.2008 without the consent of the appellant trust and
therefore, the appellant trust is entitled for the injunction as prayed for in
the application.
12\. Learned senior counsel while referring to Section 17(a) and (cc) of the
Copyright Act, 1957, contended that the appellant trust being the owner of the
copyrights and having regard to Section 18(2) of the Act, is entitled to all
the rights as were available to the author, viz., Thanthai Periyar. Learned
senior counsel also contended that as per Section 22 of the said Act, the
works of Thanthai Periyar being literary works, for next 60 years, after the
year in which Thanthai Periyar died, the right in favour of the appellant
trust continued to exist, during which period, there was no right to anybody
else, much less the respondents herein to infringe such rights. Learned senior
counsel, therefore, contended that when neither the appellant trust nor the
Thanthai Periyar himself did not transfer such right in favour of the
respondents, the attempt of the respondents to publish the compilations would
amount to infringement of such copyright, as stipulated under Section 51 of
the Act and consequently, the appellant trust is entitled for the injunction
as prayer for.
13\. Learned senior counsel relied upon the following decisions in support of
his submissions.
(i) AIR 1955 Madras 391 (B.Govindan vs. E.M.Gopalakrishnan Kone);
(ii) AIR 1961 Madras 114 (Associated Publishers (Madras) Ltd. vs. K.Bashyam);
(iii) 2003 (5) Bombay CR 404 (Zee Telefilms Ltd. and Film and Shot vs. Sundial
Communications Pvt. Ltd.); and
(iv) 2008 1 SCC 1 (Eastern Book Company vs. D.B.Modak).
14\. As against the above submissions, Mr.R.Thiagarajan, learned senior
counsel appearing for the second respondent, after referring to the prayer in
the plaint submitted that while the prayer related to the so called copyrights
of the appellant trust in Kudiyarasu and other scripts, books, publications
etc., the claim based on the said compilations of the speeches and articles of
the Thanthai Periyar would show that there was no definite claim in the
prayer. According to the learned senior counsel, the prayer is as vague as it
could be and therefore, when the prayer in the main suit itself is open to
doubt, there was no scope to consider the interim prayer applied for in the
application.
15\. Learned senior counsel attempted to point out that the pleadings of the
appellant trust does not disclose as to what was the particular literary work
with reference to which it owned any copyrights and which right was attempted
to be infringed by the respondents. According to the learned senior counsel
for the second respondent, unless the appellant trust satisfy the stipulation
contained in Section 16 of the Act, namely, ownership of copyrights and the
appellant trust satisfies the other provisions, namely, Sections 17, 18, 19
and 20 of the Act, there would be no scope for granting any relief, much less,
the relief of injunction as prayed for. Learned senior counsel while referring
to the original publication of Kudiyarasu and its reproduction in the typed
set of papers filed by the respondents, pointed out that it was nothing, but
verbatim reproduction of printed material, which was published in the
Kudiyarasu dated 19.01.1930, that when the appellant trust came to be
established in the year 1952, the publication of Kudiyarasu ceased to exist,
that even indisputably Thanthai Periyar was the Editor of Kudiyarasu only upto
to 1930 and therefore, there was no scope for the appellant trust to claim
ownership of the writings of Thanthai Periyar. Learned senior counsel
contended that having regard to the fact that the writings of Thanthai Periyar
were all of the year upto 1930, as Editor of Kudiyarasu, Section 5(1) and (2)
of the Indian Copyright Act, 1914, alone was applicable, that going by Section
5(1) and (2) of the said Act, unless the appellant trust had the assignment of
Thanthai Periyar's literary works in writing, as mentioned in the proviso,
there was no right in the appellant trust to claim for any relief, much less,
the relief of injunction as prayed for in the suit as well as in the
application. According to the learned senior counsel, since Thanthai Periyar
expired on 24.12.1973, going by the proviso to Section 5(2) of the 1914 Act,
after 25 years of his death, i.e., after 24.12.1998, the literary works of
Thanthai Periyar came into public domain and the appellant trust can have no
claim in the literary works of Thanthai Periyar. Learned senior counsel
further contended that even going by the Copyright Act, 1957, having regard to
Section 52(1)(m) of the said Act, a mere reproduction of an article published
in the newspaper magazine or other periodicals, will not amount to
infringement of copyright, unless the author of such article expressly
reserved to himself such right of reproduction. Learned senior counsel
therefore, contended that in the absence of any such reservation placed to the
satisfaction of this Court, no injunction could have been granted and at any
rate at the instance of the appellant trust.
16\. Mr.S.Doraisamy, learned counsel appearing for the first respondent
submitted that the claim of the appellant that they constituted a Committee to
collect the literary works of Thanthai Periyar and compiled them was not true.
On the other hand, the followers of Thanthai Periyar joined together and
collected the materials from the original text of Kudiyarasu published from
the year 1925 onwards. According to the learned counsel, it was therefore not
the collection of the appellant. He also placed reliance upon certain
documents placed before the Court, such as xerox copies of the original
publication of Kudiyarasu dated 02.05.1925, 19.01.1930 and 12.11.1933 and
contended that while the respondents had possession of the originals of such
publication of the newspaper, the appellant did not even have the originals.
The learned counsel referred to an advertisement made on behalf of the
appellant dated 20.12.2008, in which the appellant issued a general notice
asking any one who is in possession of Kudiyarasu Weekly of the years from
1925 to 1928 and 1946 to 1949 to produce to enable them to make a compilation
from the said Weekly as well as another Journal called "Viduthalai". The
learned counsel would therefore contend that so far the respondents have
published one set of collection of literary works of Thanthai Periyar of the
year 1925 in November 2003 and another set of publication in September 2005,
which contained the literary works of Thanthai Periyar published in the year
1926. He would contend that the present proposed publication of the
respondents in the year 2008 is going to be their next edition while the
appellant brought the first edition of their publication only in the year
2009. Learned counsel also pointed out by referring to the names of the
persons, who made the compilations by referring to the Editors Report in the
first edition published in November 2003. The learned counsel therefore
contended that the claim of the appellant that it was the reproduction of the
compilation made by the appellant is not true. Learned counsel made a specific
reference to Thanthai Periyar's statement itself, as published in one of the
publications of Viduthalai dated 31.01.1951, which was to the following
effect:
VERNACULAR (TAMIL) PORTION DELETED
17\. By referring to the above statement of Thanthai Periyar himself, learned
counsel contended that the first respondent in his counter affidavit has also
pointed out that the ideologies of Thanthai Periyar were to educate the people
in order to bring out a caste less society and thereby maintain equality among
the human kind and that he wanted his writings and ideologies to be propagated
to the entire mass and was never intended to be kept as a secret or to be
retained by any particular group for their personal gain. The learned counsel
further contended that in paragraph 22 of the counter affidavit, the first
respondent has furnished the various sources, numbering 31, from whom the
parts of Kudiyarasu issues were collected by the first respondent and that the
purpose of such collection and present publication of the collected literary
works of Thanthai Periyar were solely with a view to propagate the ideologies
of Thanthai Periyar and not to make any monitory gain. The learned counsel
would therefore contend that the contention of the appellant that the
respondents attempted to steal the appellant's compilation for making the
intended publication on 17.09.2008 was not correct and therefore the rejection
of the appellant's injunction application was justified.
18\. The learned counsel relied upon the decisions reported in AIR 1966 Madras
175 (Susiah vs. Muniswamy), AIR 1992 Karnataka 1 (K.A.Venugopala Setty vs.
Suryakantha U.Kamath) and AIR 1977 SC 1443 (Indian Performing Right Society
vs. Eastern India Motion Picture Association) in support of his submission
that under the provisions of the Copyright Act, 1957, without any written
assignment by Thanthai Periyar himself in favour of the appellant, there was
no right in the appellant to seek for any prohibitory order against the
respondents.
19\. Having heard the learned senior counsel for the appellant and the learned
counsel for the respondents and having perused the various materials placed
before us, as well as the order of the learned single Judge impugned in this
appeal, in order to consider the appellant's prayer for injunction as against
the respondents, based on the provisions of the Copyright Act, 1957, first and
foremost we wanted to ascertain with respect to which copyright, the appellant
seeks for an injunction.
20\. When we peruse the claim of the appellant in the plaint filed in
C.S.No.814 of 2008 and the prayer made in paragraph 23, the appellant seeks
for the following relief;
"(i) for a permanent injunction restraining the defendants, their men, agents,
assignees or any other person or persons claiming through them from in any
manner infringing the copyrights of the plaintiff relating to the Kudiyarasu
and other scripts, books, publications, etc.,
(ii) Award damages of Rs.15,00,000/-,
(iii) ..... and
(iv) ...."
In the application, the prayer of the appellant is as follows;
"for an ad-interim injunction restraining the respondents, their men, agents,
assignees or any other person or persons claiming through them from in any
manner infringing the copy rights of the plaintiff relating to the Kudiyarasu
and other scripts, books, publications, pending disposal of the above suit."
21\. A reading of the above prayers shows that the relief is in respect of the
copy rights of the appellant relating to the publication Kudiyarasu and other
scripts, books, publications, etc. Though such a claim is made with particular
reference to the publication Kudiyarasu in the prayer, in the body of the
plaint as well as in the affidavit filed in support of the interlocutory
application, it is stated that there was a compilation of the literary works
of late Thanthai Periyar from 1925 onwards in chronological order year-war and
subject-war by the appellant by nominating a team on 02.05.1983, that the said
team was headed by one Thiru.Ko.Imayavaramban at the Periyar Centenary
Educational Institution Campus at Trichy and that the said compilation was
stealthily removed by the respondents, who have now made arrangements to
publish those collections in the printed form on 17.09.2008. It therefore
shows that the appellant has not come forward with any definite claim of copy
right on any particular material of its own while seeking for a prayer against
the respondents.
22\. In order to lay a claim of copy right and seek for any order of restraint
against any person under the provisions of the Copyright Act, in particular,
Section 17 of the Act, it is stated that the Author of a work shall be the
first owner of the copyright therein. Under proviso (a) to Section 17, it is
however stated that in the case of literary works made by the author in the
course of his employment by the proprietor of a newspaper, magazine or similar
periodicals under a contract of service, the said proprietor in the absence of
any agreement to the contrary will be the first owner of the copyright in the
work insofar as the copyright relates to the publication of the work in such a
newspaper, magazine or similar periodicals. Under Section 18 of the Act, it is
stipulated that the owner of the copyright in an existing work may assign to
any person such copyright either wholly or partially or subject to any
limitation. Reading Sections 17 and 18 together, one who claims any copyright
of a literary work by an author has to establish such conditions contained in
the above said provisions, such as the employment of the author in a newspaper
publication under a contract of service and assignment of the ownership of
such literary work and its copyright in favour of any other person.
23\. Keeping the above legal position in mind, when we examine the claim of
the appellant, as we have noted earlier, in no part of the plaint or the
affidavit filed in support of the interim application, the appellant claims
any ownership of copy right in the compilations made by it. In fact, there was
no submission to make such a claim as the compilations were not the original
literary works of the appellant. Admittedly, the compilations were the
collection of the literary works of Thanthai Periyar published from the year
1925 onwards in a Weekly called Kudiyarasu. If the compilations were not the
original works of the appellant, it cannot claim any ownership of copy right
in such compilations while seeking for a restraint against the respondents. In
fact, a reading of the prayer also does not show that the appellant claims any
such right in respect of the said compilations of the literary works of
Thanthai Periyar. If going by the averments contained in the plaint as well as
the affidavit filed in support of the interim application, the claim of the
appellant is in regard to the literary works of Thanthai Periyar himself
published in the Weekly Kudiyarasu of the year 1925 onwards, it can be safely
held that the ownership of such copy right in regard to those materials,
namely, the literary works belonged to Thanthai Periyar himself. There can be
no two opinions for reaching such a conclusion based on Sections 16, 17 and 18
of the Copyright Act, 1957. If once such a definite conclusion can be arrived
at with regard to the ownership of the literary works, which vest with
Thanthai Periyar, inasmuch as the appellant as well as the respondents
indisputably stated that what was being published by them by way of
compilations from the Weekly Kudiyarasu, which were published from the year
1925 onwards, which were the literary works of Thanthai Periyar.
24\. Then, the next question would be whether, as claimed by the appellant, it
had acquired the ownership rights of Thanthai Periyar, vis-a-vis the literary
works by way of assignment, as stipulated either under Section 17 or 18 of the
Act. It is not the case of the appellant that Thanthai Periyar was in the
employment of Kudiyarasu under a contract of service and that Kdiyarasu became
the owner by virtue of any such arrangement as between the publication
Kudiyarasu and Thanthai Periyar in their fiducial relationship as employer-
employee, much less, under any contract of service. In fact, there was not
even an iota of material placed before the Court in support of such a claim.
There was not even a pleading to that effect either in the plaint or in the
affidavit filed in support of the interlocutory application. Therefore, any
right based on proviso (a) to Section 17 of the Copyright Act, 1957, was
either claimed or proved even prima facie before the learned single Judge.
25\. The only other provision to ascertain the right of the appellant would
therefore fall under Section 18 of the Act. As stated earlier, the right under
Section 18 of the Act, can be by way of assignment of the literary work by its
owner in favour of any other person. As far as the said aspect is concerned,
Mr.A.Thiagarajan, learned senior counsel appearing for the appellant would
strenuously contend that such an assignment should be inferred based on the
provisions contained in the Memorandum and Articles of Association of the
appellant-Institution and its Rules and Regulations. As far as the said
materials are concerned, Clause 2 of the Memorandum of Association contains
the objects of the appellant-Institution. In Clause 2(b)(v), it is stated that
the publication of books and pamphlets and other similar constructive work to
be done to help the activities of the Institution and to provide for its
income, a Press will be established for publishing and selling books relating
to the aims and principles of the Institution. Thanthai Periyar himself was
one of the signatories to the said Memorandum of Association. The said clause
2(b)(v) does not make any specific reference to either Kudiyarasu or any other
literary works of Thanthai Periyar. The said Memorandum of Association came
into being only in the year 1952, as the appellant-Institution based on such
Memorandum of Association and Rules and Regulations came to be registered as a
Society under the provisions of Societies Registration Act, (XXI of 1860) on
21.10.1952. It is relevant to keep in mind that the alleged reproduction of
the literary works of Thanthai Periyar, were all the publications made by him
in the Weekly Kudiyarasu prior to the year 1952 i.e. between 1925 and 1949.
Therefore, in the absence of any specific reference to the articles of
Thanthai Periyar by way of published materials in the Kudiyarasu and in
particular, such reference in writing to the effect that it was by way of
transfer of ownership in favour of the appellant-Institution, there was no
scope to state based on any clause contained in the Memorandum of Association
that such literary works of Thanthai Periyar were owned by the appellant-
Society.
26\. As far as the Rules and Regulations of the appellant-Society are
concerned, here again, in none of the Rules and Regulations, there is any
reference to either Kudiyarasu or any of the published materials or other
literary works of Thanthai Periyar. The learned senior counsel appearing for
the appellant by referring to Rule 22 of the Rules and Regulations wanted to
contend that the said Rule impliedly created a right of ownership of the
literary works of Thanthai Periyar in favour of the appellant-Society. The
said Rule 22 is to the following effect:
"22. The Life-members of the Executive Committee alone shall be the trustees
of the properties already purchased by Periyar E.V.Ramasamy, President of the
Self-Respect Association and in his name as President of the Self-Respect
Association and in his personal name, for the Self-Respect Association out of
its funds and also the properties already purchased by Life-members of the
Executive Committee of the Institution (1)Mrs.E.V.R.Mani,
(2)Mr.T.P.Vedachalam, (3)Mr.A.N.Narasimhan and (4))Mr.E.Thirunavukarasu on
behalf of the Dravida Self Respect Institution and the properties to be
acquired hereafter for the Institution."
The said Rule only refers to the status of the trustees, who became the
trustees of the properties of the appellant-Society, which were purchased by
Thanthai Periyar as President of the Institution in his personal name as well
as those properties purchased by other life members on behalf of the Dravida
Self-Respect Institution. By any amount of strenuous effort, we were not in a
position to discern creation of any right in favour of the appellant-Society
over the literary works of Thanthai Periyar, which were published in the
Weekly Kudiyarasu between the years 1925 and 1949. Therefore, neither the
Memorandum of Association nor the Rules and Regulations of the appellant-
Society were of any assistance to the appellant to support its claim of
ownership over the literary works of Thanthai Periyar.
27\. The question, whether the properties of Thanthai Periyar, as mentioned in
Rule 22, would include his literary works published in Kudiyarasu, is
concerned, we will deal with the same when we refer to Section 51 of the
Copyright Act, 1957, as well as the rights that were available to Thanthai
Periyar himself based on the relevant provisions contained in the Indian
Copyright Act, 1914, which was in force at the time when the publication of
his articles were made in the Weekly Kudiyarasu between 1925 and 1949. In
fact, when we refer to the Foreword of one Thiru.Aanaimuthu in one of his
publications called "Periyar E.V.Ra Chinthanaihal", (bgupahu;
</bt/uh/rpe;jidfs;) wherein he has made a reference to the compilations made
by him of Thanthai Periyar's speeches and writings. The said part of his
report reads as under:
VERNACULAR (TAMIL) PORTION DELETED
28\. The above material was placed before the Court at the instance of the
appellant. At best, going by the above extracted part of the Foreword of
Aanaimuthu, the conclusion that can be reached would be that Thanthai Periyar
appeared to have called upon Thiru.Aanaimuthu to make a compilation of his
speeches and writings in the year 1972 and that he also personally approved of
such compilations ultimately made by him. The said instance would only show
that such a job of compilation of his own speeches and writings was entrusted
with an individual Thiru.V.Aanaimuthu. No such material either exist or
produced by the appellant to show that such an entrustment was made by
Thanthai Periyar with the appellant to make any compilation of either his
speeches or writings. When Thanthai Periyar himself had, at some point of
time, any idea of making a compilation of his own speeches and writings and
had chosen to entrust the same to one particular individual, when the
appellant claims a similar right it is for the appellant to produce such an
entrustment made by Thanthai Periyar himself in writing as provided under
Section 18 of the Copyright Act, 1957. We therefore do not find any legal
support for the claim of the appellant when it seeks for an injunction as
against the respondents for enforcement of its right as a copyright holder.
Therefore, the said material also does not support the claim of the appellant.
29\. De hors the above materials, the appellant would place reliance upon the
publications made by the respondents of its earlier editions made in November
2003 and in the digest of the books, which were published in November 2003, a
reference has been made to a Committee, which was constituted in the year
1983, which Committee is said to have made a compilation of Thanthai Periyar's
speeches and articles published in Kudiyarasu and which were handed over to
the leader of Dravida Kazhagam. It is also stated therein that those
compilations came into the possession of the respondents and that such
compilations were as they are being published without any addition or
deletion. The report also contained three annexures. In Annexure-I, the names
of those persons, who constituted the Committee headed by
Thiru.Ko.Imayavaramban have been mentioned. In Annexure-II, it is mentioned
that the Committee commenced its work on 02.05.1983 at the Periyar Centenary
Educational Institution Campus at Trichy and the name of the publisher has
been mentioned as Thiru.K.Veeramani, the Secretary of the appellant-Society.
30\. From the above materials, it was contended on behalf of the appellant
that the respondents themselves have admitted that the ownership of the
compilations were that of the appellant and therefore, the right of the
appellant as copyright owner stood established. It was therefore contended
that the injunction restraining the respondents from publishing such
compilations should be granted. As stated by us earlier, the compilations by
themselves were not the work of the appellant. In other words, the
compilations are not the original creation of the appellant in order to state
that the appellant had acquired any copyright in the compilations. Admittedly,
the compilations contain the speeches and the writings of Thanthai Periyar
published in the Weekly Kudiyarasu between 1925 and 1949. Therefore, when the
material contained in the compilations with reference to which the ownership
of copyright has to be determined and when the appellant admits that the
material contained in the compilations were the literary works of Thanthai
Periyar and not of the appellant, there was no copyright ownership available
in respect of those materials with the appellant. The available material on
record and such other materials relied upon by the appellant does not in any
way confirm the rights of the appellants, much less, ownership right in
respect of the literary works of Thanthai Periyar published in Kudiyarasu
between 1925 and 1949 in order to affirm its claim. Consequently, there is no
scope for granting the interim relief as prayed for.
31\. None of the instances claimed and stated in paragraph 10 of the judgment
can be relied upon to accept the claim of the appellant that it owns copyright
in respect of the literary works of Thanthai Periyar. The instance, namely,
the editorial of Thanthai Periyar in the newspaper "Viduthalai" dated
02.10.1952, wherein it is stated that the appellant's properties included
rights in books cannot be taken to mean that such rights are referable to the
literary works of Thanthai Periyar unless there is a specific reference to the
speeches and articles of Thanthai Periyar as forming part of the properties of
the appellant by way of legally acceptable material evidence. Merely based on
such remote references, there is no scope to accept the plea of the appellant.
Similarly, the reference to the compilation work published on 02.05.1983 or
the news item in the newspaper "Viduthalai" dated 22.11.2000 cannot be taken
as a valid material to acknowledge the claim of the copyright ownership of the
appellant. The announcement of the second respondent in "Kumudham Reporter"
dated 21.08.2008 does not in any way acknowledge or recognise the copyright
ownership of the appellant as regards the literary work of Thanthai Periyar.
Even the said statement is with reference to the failure of the appellant to
come forward with the publication of the speeches of Thanthai Periyar.
Therefore, the said instance also does not support the claim of the appellant.
32\. The claim of the appellant when examined based on Section 52(1)(m) of the
Copyright Act, 1957, then again the alleged infringement cannot be accepted.
Section 52(1)(m) of the Act, reads as under:
52\. Certain acts not to be infringement of copyright (1) The following acts
shall not constitute an infringement of copyright, namely,
(a) to (l) ...
(m) the reproduction in a newspaper, magazine or other periodical of an
article on current economic, political, social or religious topics, unless the
author of such article has expressly reserved to himself the right of such
reproduction.
33\. Statutorily, in the absence of right of reservation of the author himself
prohibiting any reproduction, no infringement of copyright in respect of
reproduction of an article in a newspaper can be made. First of all, there is
no right of reservation made by Thanthai Periyar himself prohibiting
reproduction of any of his speeches published in the newspaper Kudiyarasu.
34\. We have already dealt with the claim of the appellant to enforce such
right of reservation of Thanthai Periyar based on the Memorandum of
Association and Rules and Regulations of the appellant-Society. Therefore,
there being no other document or legally acceptable material to show that
Thanthai Periyar reserved his right of reproduction of any of his articles
published in the newspaper or in the Weekly Magazine Kudiyarasu, no fault can
be found with the respondents when they want to publish the collection of the
speeches and articles of Thanthai Periyar published in the Weekly Kudiyarasu.
Section 52(1)(m) therefore protects the action of the respondents when they
want to publish the compilation of the literary works of Thanthai Periyar
stated to have been published in the Weekly Kudiyarasu between the years 1925
and 1949. In fact, as claimed by the respondents, there were two earlier
publications, one in respect of the literary works of Thanthai Periyar
published in the Kudiyarasu of the year 1925 published in November 2003 and
another publication of his literary works published in the Kudiyarasu of the
year 1926 published in September 2005. The appellant has not taken any
exception to any of those publications. Therefore, applying Section 52(1)(m)
of the Act, also, as held by the learned Judge, we do not find any legal
impediment for the respondents to effect the publications, as announced by it
to be published on 17.09.2008.
35\. One other legal submission made on behalf of the second respondent was
based on the proviso to sub section (2) to Section (5) of the Indian Copyright
Act, 1914, which is to the following effect:
"Provided that, where the author of a work is the first owner of the copyright
therein, no assignment of the copyright, and no grant of any interest therein,
made by him (otherwise than by will) after the passing of this Act, shall be
operative to vest in the assignee or grantee any rights with respect to the
copyright in the work beyond the expiration of twenty-five years from the
death of the author, and the reversionary interest in the copyright expectant
on the termination of that period shall, on the death of the author,
notwithstanding any agreement to the contrary, devolve on his legal personal
representatives as part of his estate, and any agreement entered into by him
as to be disposition of such reversionary interest shall be null and void, but
nothing in this proviso shall be construed as applying to the assignment of
the copyright in a collective work or a licence to publish a work or part of a
work as part of a collective work."
Section 79(5) of the Copyright Act, 1957, reads as under:
(5) Except as otherwise provided in this Act, where any person is entitled
immediately before commencement of this Act, to copyright in any work or any
right in such copyright or to an interest in any such right, he shall continue
to be entitled to such right or interest for the period for which he would
have been entitled thereto if this Act had not come into force."
36\. Reading of Section 79(5) of the 1957 Act and the proviso to Section 5(2)
of the 1914 Act together, it transpires that the right of the first owner of
the copyright will subsist only for a period of 25 years from the date of
death of the author, in the absence of compliance of any of the other
stipulations contained in the proviso to Section 5(2) of the 1914 Act. In the
case on hand, the right of Thanthai Periyar over his literary works would have
existed for a period of twenty five years from the date of his death. Thanthai
Periyar died on 24.12.1973. The period of twenty five years expired on
24.12.1998. Therefore, even applying the prescribed statutory limit of
restriction of the copyright of Thanthai Periyar himself, there was no
impediment for the respondents to reproduce his articles after 1998.
Admittedly, the first publication of the literary works of Thanthai Periyar
were stated to have been made by the respondents only in November 2003.
Therefore, when after 24.12.1998, the literary works of Thanthai Periyar have
come into public domain, even if there were any restrictions, the same would
have ceased to operate after 24.12.1998. Therefore, on that ground also, there
was no right in the appellant to seek for any restraint on the respondents
from making any publication of the literary works of Thanthai Periyar.
37\. As regards the applicability of 1914 Act, by virtue of the provision
contained in Section 79(5) of the 1957 Act, a Division Bench of the Allahabad
High Court in the decision reported in AIR 1977 Allahabad 356 (Newspapers Ltd.
vs. Ratna Shankar Prasad) has held as under:
"21. The arguments though alluring cannot bear the scrutiny. The whole
question hinges upon whether the new Act of 1957 would govern the rights of
the parties or that old Act of 1914. The saving S.79 sub-s. (5) of the Act of
1957 leaves no room for doubt that the rights of the parties would be governed
by the old Act and if that be so, the position under the old Act is quite
clear. The legal term on the date of agreement in view of the provisions of S.
5 of the Act of 1914 was only twenty-five years.
22\. There is yet another hurdle in the way of the appellant. The author could
not have entered into any agreement with the publisher which would have
affected the reversionary right of his son Ratna Shanker Prasad as provided by
proviso to sub-section (2) of Section 5 of the Act of 1914, as quoted above.
The agreement, to the extent it affects reversionary interest in the copyright
except on the termination of that period, is null and void and cannot be given
effect to. Considered from any aspect, the appellant's case cannot succeed."
The above decisions relied upon by the first respondent fully support their
stand.
38\. When we refer to the various decisions relied upon on behalf of the
appellant, the first decision is reported in AIR 1955 Madras 391 (B.Govindan
vs. E.M.Gopalakrishnan Kone). The said decision was concerned with a lis
between the owner of original of English-English-Tamil dictionary published in
1947 and another publisher of a similar dictionary. In fact, a single Judge of
this Court in the said decision has noted the competence of the plaintiff and
the alleged infringer in paragraph 8, which is to the following effect:
"8. The next contention was that Ex.A.2 was an independent and original
production by the second defendant, a well known Philologist and a person
whose knowledge of the Tamil language was so great that the Education Minister
of the day, Mr.Avanasilingam Chettiar, asked him in 1947 to reform the Tamil
script itself, and that EX.A.2 was produced by D.W.1 by using his own brains,
skill and labour, and was in no way an imitation or copying of EX.A.1, whose
compiler was not better qualified than D.W.1, and that the lower Court took a
wrong view. I cannot agree. Subbier, the compiler of Ex.A.1, was an M.A.L.T.
and a District Educational Officer with a very considerable experience in
teaching school boys for whom the dictionary Ex.A.1 was intended. A perusal of
Ex.A.1 has convinced me that he had good qualifications for compiling such a
dictionary and had spent much skill and labour in compiling that dictionary.
The 2nd defendant, on the other hand, was a failed Intermediate with no
experience whatever of schools or teaching. Whatever his qualifications for
reforming the Tamil script, he had little qualification for compiling such a
school dictionary himself. He could not give the Tamil meanings of simple
English words found in Ex.A.2, when he was questioned in Court as D.W.1, and
he admitted that the Tamil meanings of those words given in his own
dictionary, Ex.A.2, were exactly the same as the meanings given in Ex.A.1,
even though he could not give the Tamil meanings in Court. He added that he
published his book 'in haste'. I have little doubt that he was able to compile
Ex.A.2 with such haste because he copied most of it from Ex.A.1 as the lower
Court has found. I am convinced of it after comparing Exs.A.1 and A.2, like
the lower Court. No doubt, there are a few differences here and there, and
some words in Ex.A.1 are not found in Ex.A.2, and some words in Ex.A.2. are
not found in Ex.A.1 and a stray meaning here and there is given differently in
Ex.A.2, obviously in order to cover up the copying."
39\. Reliance was also placed upon paragraphs 10 and 11 of the said decision
to show that even if common source was relied upon by the parties, it is for
the party, who relied upon the common source, to show that he went to the
common source, from which he borrowed and by employing his skill, labour and
brain even while relying upon the common source and that he did not merely
copy away the work of another person, whose work was also based on the same
common source. The said decision having referred to the facts involved
therein, is clearly distinguishable when compared to the facts involved in the
case on hand. As has been noted by the learned Judge, while preparing an
English-English-Tamil dictionary, though reliance was placed upon other common
source, there was some original work done by the plaintiff in that case while
preparing the dictionary while the same was simply copied by the defendant
therein without demonstrating any independent application of mind while doing
its work. In fact, the learned Judge has noted the total incapacity of the
alleged infringer in that case having regard to the material evidence both
oral and documentary placed before the Court, which persuaded the learned
Judge to affirm the allegation of infringement alleged. The said decision has
no application at all to the facts of this case.
40\. The appellant then relied upon the decision reported in AIR 1961 Madras
114 (Associated Publishers (Madras) Ltd. vs. K.Bashyam). Reliance was placed
upon to the passage at page 118, which is to the following effect:
"... We think that the plaintiff himself drew his picture M.O.3 copying the
head from M.O.17 and the body from M.O.20 (M.O.21).
The result of the combination was certainly in one sense new because there was
no exact prototype of M.O.3. The plaintiff's skill and ingenuity lay in making
the combination. ..... Though the case related to a literary publication, the
principles laid down by their Lordships of the Judicial Committee would govern
the case of an original artistic work.
It was ruled that reprint of selected passages from an original work may be an
original literary work within the meaning of the Copyright Act, if there has
been expended upon it sufficient knowledge, labour, judgment or literary taste
to give it some quality or character which the complete work did not possess
and which differentiates it therefrom. ...."
41\. The above details noted by a Division Bench of this Court amply
demonstrated that the said facts are not comparable at all to the facts on
hand. In the case on hand, what was done was a mere reproduction of the
literary works of Thanthai Periyar, which were earlier published in a Weekly
Magazine Kudiyarasu in the years between 1925 and 1949. There was no
independent diction or original work added to the said literary works of
Thanthai Periyar. Therefore, whatever stated in the said decision can have no
application to the facts of the present case.
42\. In the decision reported in 2008 (1) SCC 1 (Eastern Book Company vs.
D.B.Modak), at page 96 in paragraph 32, as regards copying of compilation, it
has been held as under:
"32. The work "original" does not mean that the work must be the expression of
original or inventive thought. The Copyright Acts are not concerned with the
originality of ideas, but with the expression of thought, and in the case of
literary work, with the expression of thought in print or writing. ..... and
as regards compilation, originality is a matter of degree depending on the
amount of skill, judgment or labour that has been involved in making the
compilation. ....... The word "Original" does not demand original or inventive
thought, but only that the work should not be copied but should originate from
the author. In deciding, therefore, whether a work in the nature of a
compilation is original, it is wrong to consider individual parts of it apart
from the whole. ...... In such cases the Courts have looked to see whether the
compilation of the unoriginal material called for work or skill or expense. If
it did, it is entitled to be considered original and to be protected against
those who wish to steal the fruits of the work or skill or expense by copying
it without taking the trouble to compile it themselves. ....."
43\. The above statement of law in regard to a compilation when applied to the
facts of this case, in the first place, prima facie while dealing with an
application for an interim injunction, we do not find any legally acceptable
material to hold that there was any original work involved in making the
compilation. In fact, there is sufficient contra evidence in the form of the
printed publications of the years 1925, 1926 and 1930 placed before us on
behalf of the respondents to show that there were variations as between the
appellant's compilation and the respondents' publications. Therefore, there
being no prima facie strong case made out on behalf of the appellant in
claiming originality in the compilation of the literary works of Thanthai
Periyar, it is not safe for this Court to merely rely upon the claim made
based on the alleged compilation made in the year 1983 and hold that any
copyright ownership was existing in favour of the appellant in order to grant
an order of interim injunction. More over, having regard to the statutory
stipulation contained in Sections 17, 18 and 52(1)(m) of the Copyright Act,
1957, it will not be appropriate to grant any interim injunction in favour of
the appellant at this stage. It may be that the appellant will have to
establish such a claim, even if it exists, at the time of trial of the suit
and work out its remedy. Therefore, based on the said decision, we do not find
any scope to grant the relief as prayed for.
44\. In this context it will be worthwhile to refer to what has been stated in
the 'Glossary of Legal and Technical Terms' in the text book of a well known
author Mr.J.A.L.Sterling called 'World Copyright Law' Second Edition at page
985, where at pages 991 and 992 the meaning of the expressions 'compilation'
and 'collective work' has been set out which is as follows:
"Compilation: In general, the term refers to a collection of items which may
itself enjoy protection by virtue of the creative activity in putting the
material together........The US 1976 Act (section 101) defines a compilation
as a work formed by the collection and assembling of pre-existing materials or
of data that are selected, co-ordinated, or arranged in such a way that the
resulting work as a whole constitutes an original work of authorship."
"Collective Work:......Collective work is included in the term compilation.
Under the French Code, a collective work is a work created on the initiative
of a natural or legal person who edits it, publishes it and discloses it under
his name, in which the personal contributions of the participating authors are
merged in the whole work, without it being possible to attribute to each
author a separate right in the work as created; the collective work is the
property, unless proved otherwise, of the person under whose name it has been
disclosed, and the author's right vests in such person (Articles L.113-3, 5)."
(Emphasis added) Therefore, either as a collective work or a compilation,
there should exist something new of the collected literary work which was
already existing. In other words, while either collecting the set of literary
works by the author or compiling the same, either there should be some special
role played by the participants of the collective works or the compiliant by
way of editing or some other creativity in it. Therefore, a mere compilation
of existing literary works will not by itself cloth the person who claims to
have compiled or collected it, with any right, much less copyright other than
what was existing with the author of the literary work who as its owner is
protected with such rights at the time when such literary work came to be
introduced by the Act of 1914, or after the emergence of Copyright Act, 1957,
the various rights which were provided under various provisions of the said
Act in particular Sections 16,17,18,19,21 and 22 of the Act.
45\. The learned counsel for the first respondent relied upon the decision
reported in AIR 1966 Madras 175 (Susiah vs. Muniswamy). A learned Judge of
this Court in the said decision in paragraph 4 has held as under:
"4. ...... Section 17 of the Act declares the author of a work as the first
owner of the copyright therein; and S.18 deals with the assignment of
copyright. The mode of such assignment as laid down by S. 19 should be in
writing signed by the assignor or by his duly authorised agent and unless this
was done, no assignment of the copyright in any work shall be valid."
46\. Reliance was also placed upon the decision reported in AIR 1992 Karnataka
1 (K.A.Venugopala Setty vs. Dr.Suryakantha U.Kamath). A Division Bench of the
Karnataka High Court has held as under:
"9. Thus from the aforesaid provisions contained in S.19 of the Act, it is
clear that assignment of the copyright must be in writing and signed by the
assignor or his duly authorised agent. In addition to this, the assignment
must in clear terms state the rights proposed to be assigned and the size of
the work. No other mode of assignment is valid inasmuch as when the statute
specifically provides that assignment of the copyright must be in writing and
signed by the assignor, no other mode of assignment such as oral assignment
(sic) is neither permissible nor it is valid. In fact sub-section (1) of
Section 19 of the Act in categorical terms states that no assignment of the
copyright in any work shall be valid unless it is in writing and signed by the
assignor or his duly authorised agent." (Emphasis added)
47\. Reliance was also placed upon the decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court
reported in AIR 1977 SC 1443 (Indian Performing Right Society vs. Eastern
India Motion Picture Association). While interpreting Section 18 of the
Copyright Act, the Hon'ble Supreme Court has held as under:
"8. .... the first part of the question should be answered in the affirmative.
It is accordingly held that an existing and future right of music composer and
lyricist in their respective 'works' as defined in the Act is capable of
assignment subject to the conditions mentioned in S.18 of the Act, as also in
S.19 of the Act, which requires an assignment to be in writing, signed by the
assignor or by his duly authorised agent." (Emphasis added)
48\. For all the above stated reasons, we do not find any scope to interfere
with the order of the learned single Judge. The interim order of status-quo
granted while entertaining the O.S.A. therefore stands dismissed. The appeals
fail and the same are dismissed.
49\. In the result, O.S.A.Nos.232 of 2009 and 23 of 2010 fail and the same are
dismissed. The interim order stands vacated. Connected miscellaneous petitions
are closed. There will be no order as to costs.
bg ATR kk
copyright in any work shall be valid unless it is in writing and signed by the
assignor or his duly authorised agent." (Emphasis added)
47\. Reliance was also placed upon the decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court
reported in AIR 1977 SC 1443 (Indian Performing Right Society vs. Eastern
India Motion Picture Association). While interpreting Section 18 of the
Copyright Act, the Hon'ble Supreme Court has held as under:
"8. .... the first part of the question should be answered in the affirmative.
It is accordingly held that an existing and future right of music composer and
lyricist in their respective 'works' as defined in the Act is capable of
assignment subject to the conditions mentioned in S.18 of the Act, as also in
S.19 of the Act, which requires an assignment to be in writing, signed by the
assignor or by his duly authorised agent." (Emphasis added)
48\. For all the above stated reasons, we do not find any scope to interfere
with the order of the learned single Judge. The interim order of status-quo
granted while entertaining the O.S.A. therefore stands dismissed. The appeals
fail and the same are dismissed.
    2. K.Ramakrishnan, 
        General Secretary
        Periyar Dravidar Kazhagam
        Office No. 1, Kamarajar Salai
        Mylapore, Chennai 600 004. 				.. Respondents 
    	Appeal against the order and decree dated 27.07.2009 made in Original Application No.940 of 2008 in C.S. No.814 of 2008 on the file of this Court. 
    		For Appellant	:  Mr.A.Thiagarajan, Senior Counsel
    					    for Mr.V.R.Shanmuganathan
    		For Respondents:  Mr.S.Doraisamy for R1
    					    Mr.R.Thiagarajan, Senior Counsel
    					    for Mrs.Gladys Daniel for R2
    					---
    OSA.No. 23 of 2010
    Thanjavur Pagutharivalar Kazhagam
    rep. by its PresidentThiru. R. Rathinagiri
    488, East Rampart, 
    Thanjavur  613 001.					.. Appellant
    vs.
    1. The Periyar Self Respect propaganda Institution
        rep. by its Secretary Thiru K.Veeramani
copyright in any work shall be valid unless it is in writing and signed by the
assignor or his duly authorised agent." (Emphasis added)
47\. Reliance was also placed upon the decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court
reported in AIR 1977 SC 1443 (Indian Performing Right Society vs. Eastern
India Motion Picture Association). While interpreting Section 18 of the
Copyright Act, the Hon'ble Supreme Court has held as under:
"8. .... the first part of the question should be answered in the affirmative.
It is accordingly held that an existing and future right of music composer and
lyricist in their respective 'works' as defined in the Act is capable of
assignment subject to the conditions mentioned in S.18 of the Act, as also in
S.19 of the Act, which requires an assignment to be in writing, signed by the
assignor or by his duly authorised agent." (Emphasis added)
48\. For all the above stated reasons, we do not find any scope to interfere
with the order of the learned single Judge. The interim order of status-quo
granted while entertaining the O.S.A. therefore stands dismissed. The appeals
fail and the same are dismissed.
    2. K.Ramakrishnan, 
        General Secretary
        Periyar Dravidar Kazhagam
        Office No. 1, Kamarajar Salai
        Mylapore, Chennai 600 004. 				.. Respondents 
    	Appeal against the order and decree dated 27.07.2009 made in Original Application No.940 of 2008 in C.S. No.814 of 2008 on the file of this Court. 
    		For Appellant	:  Mr.A.Thiagarajan, Senior Counsel
    					    for Mr.V.R.Shanmuganathan
    		For Respondents:  Mr.S.Doraisamy for R1
    					    Mr.R.Thiagarajan, Senior Counsel
    					    for Mrs.Gladys Daniel for R2
    					---
    OSA.No. 23 of 2010
    Thanjavur Pagutharivalar Kazhagam
    rep. by its PresidentThiru. R. Rathinagiri
    488, East Rampart, 
    Thanjavur  613 001.					.. Appellant
    vs.
    1. The Periyar Self Respect propaganda Institution
        rep. by its Secretary Thiru K.Veeramani
copyright in any work shall be valid unless it is in writing and signed by the
assignor or his duly authorised agent." (Emphasis added)
47\. Reliance was also placed upon the decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court
reported in AIR 1977 SC 1443 (Indian Performing Right Society vs. Eastern
India Motion Picture Association). While interpreting Section 18 of the
Copyright Act, the Hon'ble Supreme Court has held as under:
"8. .... the first part of the question should be answered in the affirmative.
It is accordingly held that an existing and future right of music composer and
lyricist in their respective 'works' as defined in the Act is capable of
assignment subject to the conditions mentioned in S.18 of the Act, as also in
S.19 of the Act, which requires an assignment to be in writing, signed by the
assignor or by his duly authorised agent." (Emphasis added)
48\. For all the above stated reasons, we do not find any scope to interfere
with the order of the learned single Judge. The interim order of status-quo
granted while entertaining the O.S.A. therefore stands dismissed. The appeals
fail and the same are dismissed.
    2. K.Ramakrishnan, 
        General Secretary
        Periyar Dravidar Kazhagam
        Office No. 1, Kamarajar Salai
        Mylapore, Chennai 600 004. 				.. Respondents 
    	Appeal against the order and decree dated 27.07.2009 made in Original Application No.940 of 2008 in C.S. No.814 of 2008 on the file of this Court. 
    		For Appellant	:  Mr.A.Thiagarajan, Senior Counsel
    					    for Mr.V.R.Shanmuganathan
    		For Respondents:  Mr.S.Doraisamy for R1
    					    Mr.R.Thiagarajan, Senior Counsel
    					    for Mrs.Gladys Daniel for R2
    					---
    OSA.No. 23 of 2010
    Thanjavur Pagutharivalar Kazhagam
    rep. by its PresidentThiru. R. Rathinagiri
    488, East Rampart, 
    Thanjavur  613 001.					.. Appellant
    vs.
    1. The Periyar Self Respect propaganda Institution
        rep. by its Secretary Thiru K.Veeramani
        No.50, EVK Sampath Road
        Veppery, Chennai 600 007.				
    2. Periyar Dravidar Kazhagam
        rep. by its President T.S.Mani
        Office No. 1, Kamarajar Salai
        Mylapore, Chennai 600 004.
    3. K.Ramakrishnan, 
        General Secretary
        Periyar Dravidar Kazhagam
        Office No. 1, Kamarajar Salai
        Mylapore, Chennai 600 004. 				.. Respondents 
copyright in any work shall be valid unless it is in writing and signed by the
assignor or his duly authorised agent." (Emphasis added)
47\. Reliance was also placed upon the decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court
reported in AIR 1977 SC 1443 (Indian Performing Right Society vs. Eastern
India Motion Picture Association). While interpreting Section 18 of the
Copyright Act, the Hon'ble Supreme Court has held as under:
"8. .... the first part of the question should be answered in the affirmative.
It is accordingly held that an existing and future right of music composer and
lyricist in their respective 'works' as defined in the Act is capable of
assignment subject to the conditions mentioned in S.18 of the Act, as also in
S.19 of the Act, which requires an assignment to be in writing, signed by the
assignor or by his duly authorised agent." (Emphasis added)
48\. For all the above stated reasons, we do not find any scope to interfere
with the order of the learned single Judge. The interim order of status-quo
granted while entertaining the O.S.A. therefore stands dismissed. The appeals
fail and the same are dismissed.
    2. K.Ramakrishnan, 
        General Secretary
        Periyar Dravidar Kazhagam
        Office No. 1, Kamarajar Salai
        Mylapore, Chennai 600 004. 				.. Respondents 
    	Appeal against the order and decree dated 27.07.2009 made in Original Application No.940 of 2008 in C.S. No.814 of 2008 on the file of this Court. 
    		For Appellant	:  Mr.A.Thiagarajan, Senior Counsel
    					    for Mr.V.R.Shanmuganathan
    		For Respondents:  Mr.S.Doraisamy for R1
    					    Mr.R.Thiagarajan, Senior Counsel
    					    for Mrs.Gladys Daniel for R2
    					---
    OSA.No. 23 of 2010
    Thanjavur Pagutharivalar Kazhagam
    rep. by its PresidentThiru. R. Rathinagiri
    488, East Rampart, 
    Thanjavur  613 001.					.. Appellant
    vs.
    1. The Periyar Self Respect propaganda Institution
        rep. by its Secretary Thiru K.Veeramani
        No.50, EVK Sampath Road
        Veppery, Chennai 600 007.				
    2. Periyar Dravidar Kazhagam
        rep. by its President T.S.Mani
        Office No. 1, Kamarajar Salai
        Mylapore, Chennai 600 004.
    3. K.Ramakrishnan, 
        General Secretary
        Periyar Dravidar Kazhagam
        Office No. 1, Kamarajar Salai
        Mylapore, Chennai 600 004. 				.. Respondents 
copyright in any work shall be valid unless it is in writing and signed by the
assignor or his duly authorised agent." (Emphasis added)
47\. Reliance was also placed upon the decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court
reported in AIR 1977 SC 1443 (Indian Performing Right Society vs. Eastern
India Motion Picture Association). While interpreting Section 18 of the
Copyright Act, the Hon'ble Supreme Court has held as under:
"8. .... the first part of the question should be answered in the affirmative.
It is accordingly held that an existing and future right of music composer and
lyricist in their respective 'works' as defined in the Act is capable of
assignment subject to the conditions mentioned in S.18 of the Act, as also in
S.19 of the Act, which requires an assignment to be in writing, signed by the
assignor or by his duly authorised agent." (Emphasis added)
48\. For all the above stated reasons, we do not find any scope to interfere
with the order of the learned single Judge. The interim order of status-quo
granted while entertaining the O.S.A. therefore stands dismissed. The appeals
fail and the same are dismissed.
