Income Tax Appellate Tribunal - Bangalore
M/S Trilogy E- Business Software ... vs Assessee on 8 June, 2016
                   IN THE INCOME TAX APPELLATE TRIBUNAL
                           BANGALORE BENCH ' A '
          BEFORE SHRI VIJAY PAL RAO, JUDICIAL MEMBER AND
            SHRI INTURI RAMA RAO, ACCOUNTANT MEMBER
                          I.T. (T.P.) A. No.33/Bang/2013
                           (Assessment Year : 2008-09)
    M/s. Trilogy E-Business Software India Pvt. Ltd.,
    No.1/2, Lalitha Nilaya, 4th Cross, RMV 2nd Stage,
    Bhopsandra, Bangalore-560 094.                            .... Appellant.
             Vs.
    Dy. Commissioner of Income Tax,
    Circle 12(4), Bangalore-560 001.                       ..... Respondent.
                         I.T. (T.P.) A. No.115/Bang/2013
                          (Assessment Year : 2008-09)
                                    (By Revenue)
    Assessee By : Shri Padam Chand Khincha, C.A.
    Respondent By : Dr.P.K. Srihari, Addl. CIT (D.R.)
    Date of Hearing : 18.5.2016.
> CTR (SC) 83: (2007) 292 ITR 641 (SC) relied on"
16.3 In the light of the above binding precedent, we are of the view that the
order of the CIT(A) is correct and in accordance with law and he is justified
in directing the AO to exclude the above mentioned expenses both from the
export turnover as well as from the total turnover while  53 IT(TP)A Nos.33 &
115/Bang/2013 calculating deduction u/s 10A of the Act. Accordingly, the
grounds raised on this issue by revenue are dismissed.
17\. In view of the above findings when we have directed the TPO to exclude 12
comparable companies and also to re-examine one of the companies, it is
directed to recompute the ALP after considering the correct operating margin
of the assessee as well as considering the risk adjustment. Needless to say
that the benefit of proviso to Section 92C(2) has to be considered if the
assessee's operating margin is within the tolerance range of mean margin.
18\. In the result, the appeals of the assessee as well as the revenue are
partly allowed.
Order pronounced in the open court on the 8th day of June, 2016.
    Date of Hearing : 18.5.2016.
    Date of Pronouncement : 08.06.2016.
                                  O R D E R
Per Shri Vijay Pal Rao, J.M. :
These Cross Appeals are directed against the order dated 6.11.2012 of
Commissioner of Income Tax (Appeals)-IV, Bangalore for the Assessment Year
2008-09.
2
IT(TP)A Nos.33 & 115/Bang/2013
2\. The assessee-company was incorporated in June 2000 and is wholly owned
subsidiary of Versata International Inc., (previously known as Trilogy Inc.).
During the financial year relevant to the assessment year under consideration,
the assessee has provided software development services as well as call centre
services to its Associated Enterprises (in short 'AEs'). The assessee is
compensated on cost +10% basis by its AEs for the services provided by the
assessee. The financial results of the assessee for the assessment year under
consideration are recorded by the Transfer Pricing Officer (in short 'TPO') in
paragraph 2.1 as under :
                                   ITES Rs.       Software Rs.       Total Rs.
    Total operating income          55,50,639      43,78,31,848    44,33,82,487
    Total operating cost            49,12,070     39,80,28,956     40,29,41,023
    Operating Profit                 6,38,569       3,98,02,895     4,04,41,464
    PBIT / Cost                           13%               10%          10.04%
    PBIT / Sales                       11.50%             9.09%            9.12%
3\. The assessee has reported international transactions in 92 CE report which
are reproduced by the TPO in paragraph 2.2 as under :
Sl.No. Type of Transaction Amount Received Amount Paid Rs.
Rs.
    1        SWD Services                      43,78,31,849
    2        ITES                                  55,50,639
    3        Reimbursement of expenses                               1,60,05,330
                                         3
                                                  IT(TP)A Nos.33 & 115/Bang/2013
Thus the assessee operates in two segments i.e. software development services
and call centre services to its AEs. The services in call centre services are
accepted by the TPO at arm's length. The TPO has not accepted the
international transactions in software development services segment at arm's
length and accordingly proceeded to determine the Arm's Length Price ('ALP').
To bench mark its international transactions regarding software development
services, the assessee has selected 21 comparable companies as under :
    Sl.No.            Name of the Company                  Weighted Avg.
                                                        Operating Margin on
                                                             cost. %
    1.       Akshay Software Technologies Ltd.        6.60
    2        Aztecsoft Ltd.                           18.16
    3        Goldstone Technologies Ltd.              11.50
    4        Helios    &    Matheson      Information 38.40
             Technology Ltd.
    5        Indium Software (India) Ltd.             11.09
    6        KPIT Cummins Infosystems Ltd.            13.20
    7        Lanco Global Systems Ltd.                13.28
    8        Larsen & Toubro Infotech Ltd.            11.35
    9        Maars Software Intl. Ltd.                15.58
    10       Melstar Information Technolgoeis Ltd.    3.46
    11       Mindtree Ltd.                            16.98
    12       Persistent Systems Pvt. Ltd.             24.34
    13       Quintegra Solutions Ltd.                 15.18
    14       R S Software (India) Ltd.                14.11
    15       SIP Technologies and Exports Ltd.        18.37
    16       Sasken CommunicationTechnologies Ltd.    17.88
    17       TVS Infotech Ltd.                            - 21.27
                                             4
                                                      IT(TP)A Nos.33 & 115/Bang/2013
    18       VJIL Consulting Ltd.                        5.85
    19       VMF Softech Ltd.                            4.32
    20       Visualsoft Technologies Ltd.                16.76
    21       Zylog Systems Ltd.                          16.87
             Arithmetic Mean                             12.95
4\. The TPO rejected 15 companies selected by the assessee and accepted 6
companies from the set of comparables selected by the assessee. The companies
accepted by the TPO from the list of comparables of the assessee are Sl.Nos.7,
11,12,13,14 & 16 in the above Table. The TPO has carried out a fresh search
and added 14 more comparable companies in the final set of comparables as
under :
Sl. Name of the Company Operating Margin W. Cap Adj.
    No.                                            on Cost %         Margin %
     1    Avani Cimcon Technologies Ltd.             25.62             29.60
     2    Bodhtree Ltd.                              18.72              20.31
     3    Celestial Labs Ltd.                        87.94              81.52
     4    E-ZestSolutions Ltd.                       29.81             30.59
     5    Flextronics Software Systems                7.86              7.12
          Ltd.
     6    iGAte Global Solutions Ltd.                13.99              13.14
     7    Infosys Technologies Ltd.                  40.37              39.06
     8    KALS Information Systems Ltd.              31.29              29.60
          (Seg.)
     9    LGS Global Ltd. (Lanco Global              27.52              27.28
          Solutions Ltd.)
    10    Lucid Software Ltd.                        16.50               18.65
    11    Mindtree Consulting (Seg.)                 16.41               16.26
    12    Persistent Systems LTd.                    20.31               21.43
                                         5
                                                  IT(TP)A Nos.33 & 115/Bang/2013
    13   Quintegra Solutions Ltd.                21.74               19.41
    14   R S Software (India) Ltd.                7.41               9.71
    15   R Systems International Ltd.            15.30               14.31
    16   Sasken            Communication         7.58                7.97
         Technologies Ltd. (Seg.)
    17   Soft SolIndia Ltd.                      17.89              16.33
    18   Tata Elxsi Ltd. (Seg.)                  18.97              19.58
    19   Thirdware Solutions Ltd                 19.35              17.75
    20   Wipro Ltd (Seg.)                        28.45              30.40
         Arithmetic Mean                        23.65%             23.50%
The TPO has determined the arithmetic mean at 26.35% and after granting
working capital adjustment the adjusted mean margin was arrived at 23.5%.
Accordingly, the TPO proposed an adjustment u/s.
92CA of Rs.8,34,25,710. The assessee challenged the action of the TPO / AO by
filing the appeal before the CIT (Appeals). The CIT (Appeals) rejected 9
comparable companies from the set of comparables selected by the TPO. The CIT
(Appeals) has applied turnover filter and therefore most of the companies were
excluded by the CIT (Appeals) on this ground.
The assessee also pleaded for inclusion of two more companies in the set of
comparables. However, the CIT(A) accpeted one of the companies namely VGL
SoftTech Limited which was excluded by the TPO on the gorund of non-
availability of data. Thus after exclusion of 9 comparables  6 IT(TP)A Nos.33
& 115/Bang/2013 and inclusion of one additional comparable, the CIT (Appeals)
directed the TPO/A.O to retain 12 comparable companies as under :
     Sl.No.              Name of the Company          Operating Margin on
                                                       Cost as per OGE to
                                                        CIT(A) order. %
    1         Avani Cincom Technologies Ltd.          25.62
    2         Bodhtree Ltd.                           18.72
    3         E-Zest Solutions Ltd.                   29.81
    4         Kals InformationSystems Ltd.            31.29
    5         LGS Global Ltd. (Lanco Global Solutions 27.52
              Ltd.)
    6         Lucid Software Ltd.                     16.50
    7         Quintegra Solutions Ltd.                21.74
    8         R Systems International Ltd. (Seg.)     15.30
    9         RS Software (India) Ltd.                7.41
    10        Soft Sol India Ltd.                     17.89
    11        Thirdware Solutions Ltd.                19.35
    12        VGL Softech Ltd.                        14.19
              Average                                 20.45
              Less : Working Capital Adjustment       0.15
              Arm's Length Margin                     20.30
5\. The assessee is aggrieved by the order of the CIT (Appeals) so far as it
has retained 11 comparable companies from the set of TPO whereas the revenue
is aggrieved by the impugned order of the CIT (Appeals) whereby CIT (Appeals)
has excluded 9 comparable companies selected by the TPO by applying turnover
and some other comparable companies on functional dis-similarity.
7
IT(TP)A Nos.33 & 115/Bang/2013
6\. First we take up the assessee's appeal wherein the assessee has raised the
following grounds :
1\. " The Order of the learned Commissioner of Income Tax (Appeals) - IV to
the extent prejudicial to the appellant is bad in law.
2\. The learned Assessing Officer has erred in making a reference to Transfer
Pricing Officer for determining arm's length price without demonstrating as to
why it was necessary and expedient to do so. The learned Commissioner of
Income Tax (Appeals) - IV has erred in confirming the action of the Assessing
officer.
3\. The learned Assessing Officer, learned Transfer Pricing Officer and
Commissioner of Income Tax (Appeals) - IV have erred in --
a. passing the order without demonstrating that appellant had motive of tax
evasion. b. not appreciating that the charging or computation provision
relating to income under the head "Profits & Gains of Business or Profession"
do not refer to or include the amounts computed under Chapter X and therefore
addition made under Chapter X is bad in law.
c. adopting a flawed process for issuing notices u/s 133(6) and relying on the
same without providing complete information or an opportunity to cross examine
the companies concerned.
GROUNDS ON COMPARABLES AND REJECTION OF TP ANALYSIS OF THE APPELLANT
4\. The learned Assessing Officer, learned Transfer Pricing Officer and
Commissioner of Income Tax (Appeals) - IV have erred in a. computing the arm's
length price based on the data for the Financial Year 2007-08 of the
comparables, which was not available when the appellant undertook transfer
pricing documentation and reporting obligations; b. rejecting the comparables
selected by the appellant on unjustifiable grounds; c. rejecting the
additional comparables proposed by the appellant on unjustifiable grounds; and
d. rejecting the transfer pricing analysis undertaken by the appellant on
unjustifiable grounds.
GROUNDS RELATING TO TP ANALYSIS OF THE TPO:
5\. The learned Assessing Officer, learned Transfer Pricing Officer and
Commissioner of Income Tax (Appeals) - IV have erred in:
8
IT(TP)A Nos.33 & 115/Bang/2013 a. Performing fresh transfer pricing analysis
and adopting inappropriate filters in doing fresh transfer pricing analysis.
b. adopting companies as comparables even though they are not comparable to
the appellant.
c. Not appreciating that the law does not compel adopting many (or any
minimum) companies as comparables and that the appellant could justify the
price paid/charged on the basis of any one comparable only.
d. not making proper adjustment for enterprise level and transactional level
differences between the appellant and the comparable companies, including the
differences in functions performed, assets employed and risks undertaken.
6\. The learned Assessing Officer, learned Transfer Pricing Officer and
Commissioner of Income Tax (Appeals) - IV have erred in:
a. Not excluding Fringe Benefit Tax (FBT) from the operating cost while
computing arm's length price. Even otherwise, FBT has been excluded from
operating cost for comparable companies and on parity of reason, the same
should also be excluded while computing operating cost of the appellant. b.
Treating foreign exchange gain or loss as operating in nature while computing
arm's length price. In the alternative, in case, foreign exchange gain or loss
is treated as non-operating in nature, then the TPO/AO be directed to exclude
foreign exchange loss incurred by the appellant from the operating cost while
computing arm's length price.
7\. The learned Commissioner of Income Tax (Appeals) - IV has erred in
confirming companies selected by the TPO as comparables ignoring the
submissions of the appellant.
8\. The learned Assessing Officer, learned Transfer Pricing Officer and
Commissioner of Income Tax (Appeals) - IV have erred in not giving
9\. The learned Assessing Officer has erred in disallowing a sum of Rs.
2,99,07,451/- being research and development expenses under section 37 of the
Act stating that the said expenses confer an enduring benefit and is not
revenue in nature and stating that R&D Expenses was incurred on behalf of
parent company without appreciating that same was incurred for domestic
operations. The learned Commissioner of Income Tax (Appeals) - IV has erred in
confirming the action of the Assessing officer.
10\. The learned assessing officer has erred in levying interest under section
234B and 234D of the Income tax Act, 1961. On facts and in the circumstances
of the case and law applicable, interest under section 234B and 234D is not
leviable. The appellant denies its liability to pay interest under section
234B and 234D.
PRAYER
11\. On an overall consideration of the facts of the case, and the law
applicable:
9
> IT(TP)A Nos.33 & 115/Bang/2013 The ALP as determined by the Transfer Pricing
> Officer, as adopted by the Assessing Officer and as confirmed by the CIT(A),
> to the extent prejudicial to the appellant, being not correct is to be
> quashed and the figures as determined and returned by the appellant being
> correct are to be accepted.
> a. The disallowance of R&D expenses be deleted.
> 12\. Interest under section 234B and 234D be deleted.
> The appellant submits that each of the above grounds/ sub-grounds are
> independent and without prejudice to one another.
> The appellant craves leave to add, alter, vary, omit, substitute or amend
> the above grounds of appeal, at any time before or at, the time of hearing,
> of the appeal, so as to enable the Income-tax Appellate Tribunal to decide
> the appeals according to law. The appellant prays accordingly."
> 7\. The assessee has also raised additional grounds by filing a petition
> dt.16.6.2016. The additional grounds raised by the assessee are as under :
> 1\. " The above referred appeal is in respect of the order passed by the
> learned Commissioner of Income Tax (Appeals). The Assessing Officer had
> passed Assessment Order under section 143(3) on 24.01.2012 against which the
> Appellant had filed an appeal before the CIT (Appeals). The CIT (Appeals)
> heard the case and passed order under section 250(6) on 06.11.2012.
> 2\. In the order passed under section 143(3), transfer pricing additions
> were made for transactions with associated enterprises along with certain
> other additions to the total income of the Appellant.
> 3\. The additional grounds of appeal (enclosed herewith) relate to rejection
> of Quintegra Solutions Ltd, Soft Sol India Ltd, E-Zest Solutions Ltd and
> Persistent Systems Pvt Ltd as comparables for the software development
> services rendered by the Appellant. In the case of Quintegra Solutions Ltd
> and Persistent Systems Pvt, both the Appellant and the TPO had selected it
> as a comparable. In respect of other comparables, the TPO had selected these
> companies as comparables in the order passed u/s 92CA. The additional ground
> also relates to inclusion of Indium software as a comparable which is
> rejected as a comparable by CIT(A) on the ground of losses. With respect to
> rejection/inclusion of these comparables, the ground pertains to question of
> facts. All the necessary facts for adjudicating this ground are already on
> record. The Appellant humbly prays that the additional ground be admitted
> and adjudicated along with the other grounds of appeal in the course of
> hearing of the appeal.
> The Appellant prays accordingly."
10
> IT(TP)A Nos.33 & 115/Bang/2013
> 8\. By way of additional ground, the assessee is seeking exclusion of 3
> companies namely Quintegra Solutions Ltd., e-Zest Solutions Ltd. And
> Persistent Systems Ltd. The assessee is also raised an issue of exclusion of
> certain comparable companies by applying the RPT filter at 15% as it has
> been consistently accepted by this Tribunal. Apart from that the assessee
> has also seeking inclusion of one company i.e. Indium Software India Pvt.
> Ltd. as a comparable.
9\. We have heard the learned Authorised Representative as well as learned
Departmental Representative and considered the relevant material on record on
the issue of admission of additional grounds raised by the assessee.
10\. As regards the additional grounds for applying RPT filter at 15% instead
of 25% applied by the TPO, we find that the assessee did not raise any
objection against 25% RPT filter applied by the TPO either before the TPO or
before the CIT (Appeals). Therefore, this issue does not emanate from the
impugned orders of the authorities below. Even otherwise the filter is applied
for selecting the comparables and applicable to all the comparable companies
either selected by the assessee or by the TPO then we do not find any
substance in the  11 IT(TP)A Nos.33 & 115/Bang/2013 additional grounds raised
by the assessee so far as applying the RPT filter at 15% instead of 25%
applied by the authorities below and accepted by the assessee. As regards the
exclusion of 3 companies by raising the additional grounds we note that the
comparability of those 3 companies have been examined by this Tribunal in
series of cases. The Tribunal has taken a view in case of ITO Vs. M/s. Net
Devices India Pvt. Ltd. Vide order dt.25.5.2016 in
I.T.(T.P)A.No.1099/Bang/2011 & C.O. No. 19/Bang/2012 in para 15.3 as under :
" 15.3 We have heard the rival submissions as well as considered the relevant
material on record on the admissibility of the additional grounds raised by
the assessee. We find that there are some decisions of this Tribunal wherein
the comparability of these two companies have been considered and decided by
this Tribunal. Therefore, once the assessee has brought on record some
decisions of the Tribunal wherein these two companies were held to be not good
comparables then the facts and circumstances and in the interest of justice,
we admit the additional grounds raised by the assessee. Accordingly, we will
deal with the comparability of these two companies on merits."
10.1 Accordingly, we concur with the earlier view of the Tribunal and admit
the additional grounds raised by the assessee in respect of functional dis-
similarity of certain companies.
10.2 The assessee is seeking exclusion of 12 companies from the final set of
TPO. At the outset the learned Authorised Representative of the  12 IT(TP)A
Nos.33 & 115/Bang/2013 assessee has submitted that the revenue has objected to
the turnover filter applied by the learned CIT (Appeals) for exclusion of
certain comparables. However,the assessee would not object against non-
application of turnover filter as sought by the revenue in its appeal. The
learned Authorised Representative has submitted that those comparables
selected by the TPO are otherwise functionally dis-similar to the assessee. He
has pointed out that an identical set of 21 comparable companies selected by
the TPO has been considered by the co-ordinate bench of this Tribunal in the
case of Kodiak Network (India) Pvt. Ltd. Vs. DCIT in IT(TP)A No.1540/Bang/2012
vide order dt.5.5.2015 for the same asst. year 2008-09.
10.3 Thus the learned Authorised Representative has submitted that an
identical set of comparable companies selected by the TPO has been examined by
the co-ordinate bench in the case of Kodiak Network (India) Pvt. Ltd. (supra).
The Tribunal has finally concluded that out of 21 comparable companies
selected by the TPO, 12 companies cannot be considered good comparables to the
software development services provider company.
13
IT(TP)A Nos.33 & 115/Bang/2013 10.4 On the other hand, the learned
Departmental Representative has submitted that the decision of the co-ordinate
bench of this Tribunal in the case of Kodiak Network (India) Pvt. Ltd. (supra)
cannot be applied directly in the case of the assessee without verifying the
similarity of the business profile of the assessee and M/s. Kodiak Network
(India) Pvt.
Ltd. (supra). The learned Departmental Representative has submitted that the
assessee's business activity in this segment is providing/provision of
software development services which may be the inclusive of software
development product and therefore the Tribunal in the case of Kodiak Network
(India) Pvt. Ltd. (supra) has directed the exclusion of certain comparable
companies on the ground of having software product. The said finding cannot be
applied in the case of the assessee without verifying the fact that the
assessee is not engaged in the software product.
10.5 We have considered the rival submissions as well as relevant material on
record. It is pertinent to note that the TPO in the case of Kodiak Network
(India) Pvt. Ltd. (supra) has selected an identical set of 21 companies as
selected in the case of the assessee. Therefore, it is clear that while
selecting the comparable companies, the TPO has  14 IT(TP)A Nos.33 &
115/Bang/2013 considered the assessee as a software development services
provider as in the case of Kodiak Network (India) Pvt. Ltd. (supra). Further,
the TPO has recorded the functional profile of the assessee in the impugned
order which has been reproduced in the foregoing paragraphs of this order and
therefore we do not find any substance in the objections raised by the learned
Departmental Representative that the business profile of the assessee as far
as the software development services segment may not be similar to that of
Kodiak Network (India) Pvt. Ltd. (supra). The Tribunal in the case of Kodiak
Network (India) Pvt. Ltd. (supra) has dealt with the issue of functional
comparability of identical set of comparables in paras 21 to 25 as under :
" 21. We have considered the rival submissions and relevant material available
on record. As we have narrated the facts in the foregoing paras that the TPO
has determined the ALP by taking into consideration the set of 20 comparables.
The assessee has raised objection regarding 13 comparables out of 20 selected
by the TPO. The companies against which the assessee raised objections are as
under:
                     S.No.           Name of the Company
                        1 AvaniCimcon Technologies Ltd
                        2 Bodhtree Ltd
                        3 Celestial Biolabs Ltd
                        4    E-Zest Solutions Ltd
                        5 Infosys Technologies Ltd
                        6 KALS Information Systems Ltd (Seg.)
                                               15
                                                           IT(TP)A Nos.33 & 115/Bang/2013
                         7   Lucid Software Ltd
                         8 Persistent Systems Ltd
                         9 Quintegra Solutions Ltd
                        10 Softsole India Ltd
                        11 Tata Elxsi Ltd (Seg.)
                        12 Thirdware Solutions Ltd (Seg
                        13 Wipro Ltd (Seg.)
22\. We note that the comparability of these 13 companies have been examined
by this Tribunal in series of decision as referred by the ld. AR. In the case
of M/s 3DPLM Software Solutions Ltd (supra), the co-ordinate Bench of this
Tribunal has considered the comparability of these companies in paras 7 to
19.3 of the order which have been reproduced below:
           "7.0    Avani Cincom Technologies Ltd.
           7.1     This company was selected by the TPO as a comparable. The assessee
objects to the inclusion of this company as a comparable on the ground that
this company is not functionally comparable to the assessee as it is into
software products whereas the assessee offers software development services to
its AEs. The TPO had rejected the objections of the assessee on the ground
that this comparable company has categorized itself as a pure software
developer, just like the assessee, and hence selected this company as a
comparable. For this purpose, the TPO had relied on information submitted by
this company in response to enquiries carried out under section 133(6) of the
Act for collecting information about the company directly.
7.2 Before us, the learned Authorised Representative reiterated the assessee's
objections for the inclusion of this company from the list of comparable
companies on the ground that this company is not functionally comparable to
the assessee as it is into software products. It is also submitted that the
segmental details of this company are not available and the Annual Report
available in the public domain is not complete. It was further contended that
the information obtained by the TPO under section 133(6) of the Act, on the
basis of which the TPO included this company in the final list of comparable
companies, has not been shared with the assessee. In support of this
contention, the learned Authorised Representative placed reliance on the
following judicial decisions:
16
IT(TP)A Nos.33 & 115/Bang/2013
i) Trilogy E-Business Software India Pvt. Ltd. V DCIT (ITA No.1054/Bang/2011)
ii) Telecordia Technologies India Pvt Ltd V ACIT (ITA No.7821/Mum/2011) It was
also submitted that this company has been held to be functionally not
comparable to the assessee by a co-ordinate bench of this Tribunal in the
assessee's own case for Assessment Year 2007-08 in ITA No.845/Bang/2011
dt.22.2.2013.
7.3 The learned Authorised Representative further submitted that the
factspertaining to this company has not changed from the earlier year (i.e.
Assessment Year 2007-08) to the period under consideration (i.e. Assessment
Year 2008-09). In support of this contention, it was submitted that :-
(i) The extract from the Website of the company clearly indicates that it is
primarily engaged in development of software products. The extract mentions
that this company offers customised solutions and services in different areas;
(ii) The Website of this company evidences that this company develops and
sells customizable software solutions like "DX Change, CARMA, etc. 7.4 The
learned Authorised Representative submitted that a co-ordinate bench of the
Tribunal in its order in Curram Software International Pvt. Ltd., in its order
in ITA No.1280/Bang/2012 dt.31.7.2013 has remanded the matter back to the file
of the Assessing Officer / TPO to examine the comparability of this company
afresh, by making the following observations at paras 9.5.2 and 9.5.3 thereof
:-
" 9.5.2 As regards the submission of the learned Authorised Representative, we
are unable to agree that this company has to be deleted from the list of
comparables only because it has been deleted from the set of comparables in
the case of Triology E-Business Software India Pvt. Ltd. (supra). No doubt
this company has been deleted as a comparable in the case of Triology
E-Business Software India Pvt. Ltd. (supra) and this can be a good guidance to
decide on  17 IT(TP)A Nos.33 & 115/Bang/2013 the comparability in the case on
hand also. This alone, however, will not suffice for the following reasons :-
(i) The assessee needs to demonstrate that the FAR analysis and other relevant
facts of the Triology case are equally applicable to the facts of the
assessee's case also. Unless the facts and the FAR analysis of Triology case
is comparable to that of the assessee in the case on hand, comparison between
the two is not tenable. (ii) After demonstrating the similarity and the
comparability between the assessee and the Triology case, the assessee also
needs to demonstrate that the facts applicable to the Assessment Year 2007-
08, the year for which the decision in case of Triology E-Business Software
India Pvt. Ltd. (supra) was rendered are also applicable to the year under
consideration i.e. Assessment Year 2008-09.
9.5.3 It is a well settled principle that the assessee is required to perform
FAR analysis for each year and it is quite possible that the FAR analysis can
be different for each of the years. That being so, the principle applicable to
one particular year cannot be extrapolated automatically and made applicable
to subsequent years. To do that, it is necessary to first establish that the
facts and attendant factors have remained the same so that the factors of
comparability are the same. Viewed in that context, the assessee has not
discharged the onus upon it to establish that the decision rendered in the
case of Triology E-Business Software India Pvt. Ltd. (supra) can be applied to
the facts of the case and that too of an earlier year i.e. Assessment Year
2007-08. The assessee, in our view, has not demonstrated that the facts of
Triology E-Business Software India Pvt. Ltd. (supra) are identical to the
facts of the case on hand and that the profile of the assessee for the year
under consideration is similar to that of the earlier Assessment Year 2007-08.
In view of facts as discussed above, we deem it fit to remand the matter back
to the file of the Assessing Officer / TPO to examine the comparability of
this company afresh by considering the above observations. The TPO is directed
to make available to the assessee information obtained under section 133(6) of
the Act and to afford the assessee adequate opportunity of being heard and to
make its submissions in the matter, which shall be duly considered before
passing orders thereon. It is ordered accordingly."
The learned Authorised Representative submits that this company was selected
as a comparable by the TPO not by any FAR analysis or as per the search
process conducted by the TPO, but only as an additional comparable for the
reason that it was selected as a comparable in the earlier year i.e.
Assessment Year 2007-08 on the basis of information  18 IT(TP)A Nos.33 &
115/Bang/2013 obtained under section 133(6) of the Act. In this regard, the
learned Authorised Representative took us through the relevant portions of the
TP order under section 92CA of the Act and the show cause notices for both the
earlier year i.e. Assessment Year 2007-08 and for this year and contended that
the selection of this company as a comparable violates the principle
enunciated in Curram Software International Pvt. Ltd. (supra) that a company
can be selected as a comparable only on the basis of FAR analysis conducted
for that year and therefore pleaded for its exclusion. The learned Authorised
Representative also submitted that he has brought on record sufficient
evidence to show that the functional profile of this company remains unchanged
from the earlier year and hence the findings rendered by the co-ordinate
benches of the Tribunal in the assessee's own case for Assessment Year 2007-08
(supra) and in other cases like Triology E-Business Software India Pvt. Ltd.
(supra) are applicable to the year under consideration as well.
7.5 Per contra, the learned Departmental Representative supported the order of
the TPO / DRP for inclusion of this company Avani Cincom Technologies Ltd. in
the final set of comparables.
7.6.1 We have heard both parties and perused and carefully considered the
material on record. It is seen from the record that the TPO has included this
company in the final set of comparables only on the basis of information
obtained under section 133(6) of the Act. In these circumstances, it was the
duty of the TPO to have necessarily furnished the information so gathered to
the assessee and taken its submissions thereon into consideration before
deciding to include this company in its final list of comparables.
Nonfurnishing the information obtained under section 133(6) of the Act to the
assessee has vitiated the selection of this company as a comparable.
7.6.2 We also find substantial merit in the contention of the learned
Authorised Representative that this company has been selected by the TPO as an
additional comparable only on the ground that this company was selected in the
earlier year. Even in the earlier year, it is seen that this company was not
selected IT(TP)A 1380/Bang/2012 Page 7 of 34 on the basis on any search
process carried out by the TPO but only on the basis of information collected
under section 133(6) of the Act. Apart from placing reliance on the judicial
decision cited above, including the assessee's own case for Assessment Year
2007-08, the assessee has brought on record evidence that this company is
functionally dis-similar and different from the assessee and hence is not
comparable. Therefore the finding excluding it from the list of comparables
rendered in the immediately preceding year is applicable in this year also.
Since the functional profile and other parameters by this company  19 IT(TP)A
Nos.33 & 115/Bang/2013 have not undergone any change during the year under
consideration which fact has been demonstrated by the assessee, following the
decisions of the co-ordinate benches of this Tribunal in the assessee's own
case for Assessment Year 2007-08 in ITA No.845/Bang/2011 dt.22.2.2013, and in
the case of Triology E-Business Software India Pvt. Ltd. (ITA
No.1054/Bang/2011), we direct the A.O./TPO to omit this company from the list
of comparables.
8.0 Bodhtree Consulting Ltd.
8.1 This company has been selected as a comparable company to the assessee by
the TPO; the inclusion of which was not objected to by the assessee before
both the TPO and the DRP. The assessee has not objected to the inclusion of
this company in the list of comparables, as can be seen from the grounds of
appeal raised in Form 36B before this Tribunal. 8.1 However in the course of
proceedings before us, the learned Authorised Representative objected to the
inclusion of this company as a comparable for the following reasons :
(i) This company has reported abnormally fluctuating margins in the period
from 2005 to 2011, which indicate abnormal business factors and abnormal
profit margins and hence should not be considered as comparable to the
assessee.
(ii) The abnormally fluctuating margins indicate that this company bears
higher risk in contrast to the assessee who has earned consistent margins over
the years, indicating difference in the risk profile between this company and
the assessee.
(iii) This company has registered exponential growth of 67% in terms of
revenue and 41% in terms of profits over the immediately preceding year which
can be attributed to the development of a software application, MIDAS (Multi
Industry Data Anomaly) which was made available for customers as SaaS
(Software as a Service).
8.3 Per contra, the learned Departmental Representative opposed the exclusion
of this company from the list of comparable companies. The learned
Departmental Representative contended that since the assessee had accepted the
TPO's proposal for inclusion of this company in the set of comparables and had
not objected to its inclusion even before the DRP, the objections raised by
the assessee in this regard, at this stage, ought to be rejected.
20
IT(TP)A Nos.33 & 115/Bang/2013 8.4.1 We have heard both parties and perused
and carefully considered the material on record. Admittedly, there is no
disputing the fact that the assessee had never objected to the inclusion of
this company in the set of comparbales in earlier proceedings before the TPO
and the DRP. It is also seen that even in the grounds of appeal raised before
us, the assessee has not raised any grounds challenging the inclusion of this
ompany in the list of comparbales. In fact in the assessee's own case for
Assessment Year 2007-08, this company was selected as a comparable by the
assessee itself. We, therefore, find no merit in the contentions raised by the
learned Authorised Representative of the assessee in respect of this company
at this stage of proceedings.
8.4.2 It is also seen from the submissions made before us that the assessee
has only pointed out fluctuating margins in the results of this company over
the years. This, in itself, cannot be reason enough to establish differences
in functional profile or any clinching factual reason warranting the exclusion
of this company from the list of comparables. In this view of the matter, the
contentions of the assessee are rejected and this company is held to be
comparable to the assessee and its inclusion in the list of comparable
companies is upheld.
9\. Celestial Biolabs Ltd.
9.1 This comparable was selected by the TPO for inclusion in the final list of
comparables. Before the TPO, the assessee had objected to the inclusion of
this company in the list of comparables for the reasons that it is
functionally different form the assessee and that it fails the employee cost
filter. The TPO, however, brushed aside the objections raised by the assessee
by stating that the objections of functional dissimilarity has been dealt with
in detail in the T.P. order for Assessment Year 2007-08. As regards the
objection raised in respect of the employee cost filter issue, the TPO
rejected the objections by observing that the employee cost filter is only a
trigger to know the functionality of the company.
9.2 Before us, the learned Authorised Representative contended that this
company is not functionally comparable, as the company is into bio-
informatics software product /services and the segmental break up is not
provided. It was submitted that :-
(i) This company is engaged in the development of products in the field of
bio-technology, pharmaceuticals, etc. and therefore is not functionally
comparable to the assessee;
21
IT(TP)A Nos.33 & 115/Bang/2013
(ii) This company has been held to be functionally incomparable to software
service providers by the decision of the co-ordinate bench of this Tribunal in
the assessee's own case for Assessment Year 2007-08 (supra);
(iii) The co-ordinate bench of this Tribunal in its order in the case of
Triology EBusiness Software India Pvt. Ltd. (supra) at para 43 thereof had
observed about this company that -
> " ..... As explained earlier, it is a diversified company and therefore
> cannot be considered as comparable functionally with the assessee. There has
> been no attempt to identify, eliminate and make adjustment of the profit
> margins so that the difference in functional comparability can be
> eliminated. By not resorting to such a process of making adjustments,the TPO
> has rendered this company as not qualifying for comparability. We therefore
> accept the plea of the assessee in this regard."
(iv) The rejection / exclusion of this company as a comparable for Assessment
Year 2007-08 for software service providers has been upheld by the co-
ordinate benches of this Tribunal in the cases of LG Soft India Pvt. Ltd. in
ITA No.112/Bang/2011, CSR India Pvt. Ltd. in IT(TP)A No.1119/Bang/2011 and by
the ITAT, Delhi Bench in the case of Transwitch India Pvt. Ltd. in ITA
No.6083/Del/2010.
(v) The facts pertaining to this company has not changed from Assessment Year
2007- 08 to Assessment Year 2008-09 and therefore this company cannot be
considered for the purpose of comparability in the instant case and hence
ought to be rejected. In support of this contention, the assessee has also
referred to and quoted from various parts of the Annual Report of the company.
9.3 Per contra, the learned Departmental Representative supported the
inclusion of this company in the list of comparable companies. The learned
Departmental Representative submitted that the decisions cited and relied on
by the assessee are for Assessment Year 2007-08 and therefore there cannot be
an assumption that it would continue to be applicable for the period under
consideration i.e. Assessment Year 2008-09.
9.4.1 We have heard both the parties and perused and carefully considered the
material on record. While it is true that the decisions cited and relied on by
the assessee were with respect to the immediately previous assessment year,
and there cannot be an assumption that it would continue to be applicable for
this year as well, the same parity of reasoning is applicable to the TPO as
well who seems to have selected this company as a comparable  22 IT(TP)A
Nos.33 & 115/Bang/2013 based on the reasoning given in the TPO's order for the
earlier year. It is evidently clear from this, that the TPO has not carried
out any independent FAR analysis for this company for this year viz.
Assessment Year 2008-09. To that extent, in our considered view, the selection
process adopted by the TPO for inclusion of this company in the list of
comparables is defective and suffers from serious infirmity.
9.4.2 Apart from relying on the afore cited judicial decisions in the matter
(supra), the assessee has brought on record IT(TP)A 1380/Bang/2012 Page 8 of
34 substantial factual evidence to establish that this company is functionally
dis-similar and different from the assessee in the case on hand and is
therefore not comparable and also that the findings rendered in the cited
decisions for the earlier years i.e. Assessment Year 2007-08 is applicable for
this year also. We agree with the submissions of the assessee that this
company is functionally different from the assessee. It has also been so held
by co-ordinate benches of this Tribunal in the assessee's own case for
Assessment Year 2007-08 (supra) as well as in the case of Triology E-Business
Software India Pvt. Ltd. (supra). In view of the fact that the functional
profile of and other parameters of this company have not changed in this year
under consideration, which fact has also been demonstrated by the assessee,
following the decision of the co-ordinate benches of the Tribunal in the
assessee's own case for Assessment Year 2007-08 in ITA No.845/Bang/2011 and
Triology E-Business Software India Pvt. Ltd. in ITA No.1054/Bang/2011, we hold
that this company ought to be omitted form the list of comparables. The
A.O./TPO are accordingly directed.
10\. KALS Information Systems Ltd.
10.1 This is a comparable selected by the TPO. Before the TPO, the assessee
had objected to the inclusion of this company in the set of comparables on
grounds of functional differences and that the segmental details have not been
provided in the Annual Report of the company with respect to software services
revenue and software products revenue. The TPO, however, rejected the
objections of the assessee observing that the software products and training
constitutes only 4.24% of total revenues and the revenue from software
development services constitutes more than 75% of the total operating revenues
for the F.Y. 2007-08 and qualifies as a comparable by the service income
filter. 10.2 Before us, the learned Authorised Representative contended that
this company is not functionally comparable to the assessee and ought to be
rejected /excluded from the list of comparables for the following reasons:-
23
IT(TP)A Nos.33 & 115/Bang/2013
(i) This company is functionally different from the software activity of the
assessee as it is into software products.
(ii) This company has been held to be functionally not comparable to software
service providers for Assessment Year 2007-08 by the co-ordinate bench of this
Tribunal in the assessee's own case. This company has been held to be
different from a software development company in the decision of the Tribunal
in the case of Bindview India Pvt. Ltd. V DCIT in ITA No.1386/PN/ 2010\.
(iii) The rejection of this company as a comparable has been upheld by co-
ordinate benches of the Tribunal in the case of -
(a) Triology E-Business Software India Pvt. Ltd. (ITA No.1054/Bang/2011).
(b) LG Soft India Pvt. Ltd.IT(TP)A No.112/Bang/2011)
(c) CSR India Pvt. Ltd.IT(TP)A No.1119/Bang/2011) and
(d) Transwitch India Pvt. Ltd.ITA No.6083/Del/2010)
(iv) The facts pertaining to this company has not changed from Assessment Year
2007- 08 to Assessment Year 2008-09 and therefore this company cannot be
considered for the purpose of comparability in the case on hand and hence
ought to be excluded from the list of comparables. In support of this
contention, the learned Authorised Representative drew our attention to
various parts of the Annual Report of this company.
(v) This company is engaged not only in the development of software products
but also in the provision of training services as can be seen from the website
and the Annual Report of the company for the year ended 31.3.2008.
(vi) This company has two segments; namely,
a) Application Software Segment which includes software product revenues from
two products i.e. 'Virtual Insure' and 'La-Vision' and
b) The Training segment which does not have any product revenues.
10.3 Per contra, the learned Departmental Representative contended that the
decision of the co-ordinate bench of the Tribunal in the case of Triology E-
Business Software India Pvt. Ltd. (supra) was rendered with respect to
F.Y.2006-07 and therefore there cannot be an assumption that it would continue
to be applicable to the year under consideration i.e. A.Y. 2008-09. To  24
IT(TP)A Nos.33 & 115/Bang/2013 this, the counter argument of the learned
Authorised Representative is that the functional profile of this company
continues to remain the same for the year under consideration also and the
same is evident from the details culled out from the Annual Report and quoted
above (supra).
10.4 We have heard both parties and perused and carefully considered the
material on record. We find from the record that the TPO has drawn conclusions
as to the comparability of this company to the assessee based on information
obtained u/s.133(6) of the Act. This information which was not in the public
domain ought not to have been used by the TPO, more so when the same is
contrary to the Annual Report of the company, as pointed out by the learned
Authorised Representative. We also find that the co-ordinate benches of this
Tribunal in the assessee's own case for Assessment Year 2007-08 (supra) and in
the case of Triology E-Business Software India Pvt. Ltd. (supra) have held
that this company was developing software products and was not purely or
mainly a software service provider. Apart from relying of the above cited
decisions of coordinate benches of the Tribunal (supra), the assessee has also
brought on record evidence from various portions of the company's Annual
Report to establish that this company is IT(TP)A 1380/Bang/2012 Page 9 of 34
functionally dis-similar and different form the assessee and that since the
findings rendered in the decisions of the coordinate benches of the Tribunal
for Assessment Year 2007-08 (cited supra) are applicable for this year i.e.
Assessment Year 2008-09 also, this company ought to be excluded from the list
of comparables. In this view of the matter, we hold that this company i.e.
KALS Information Systems Ltd., is to be omitted form the list of comparable
companies. It is ordered accordingly."
"11.0 Infosys Technologies Ltd.
11.1 This was a comparable selected by the TPO. Before the TPO, the assessee
objected to the inclusion of the company in the set of comparables, on the
grounds of turnover and brand attributable profit margin. The TPO, however,
rejected these objections raised by the assessee on the grounds that turnover
IT(TP)A 1380/Bang/2012 Page 24 of 34 and brand aspects were not materially
relevant in the software development segment.
11.2 Before us, the learned Authorised Representative contended that this
company is not functionally comparable to the assessee in the case on hand.
The learned Authorised Representative drew our attention to various parts of
the Annual Report of this company to submit that this company commands  25
IT(TP)A Nos.33 & 115/Bang/2013 substantial brand value, owns intellectual
property rights and is a market leader in software development activities,
whereas the assessee is merely a software service provider operating its
business in India and does not possess either any brand value or own any
intangible or intellectual property rights (IPRs). It was also submitted by
the learned Authorised Representative that :-
(i) the co-ordinate bench of this Tribunal in the case of 24/7 Customer.Com
Pvt. Ltd. in ITA No.227/Bang/2010 has held that a company owning intangibles
cannot be compared to a low risk captive service provider who does not own any
intangible and hence does not have an additional advantage in the market. It
is submitted that this decision is applicable to the assessee's case, as the
assessee does not own any intangibles and hence Infosys Technologies Ltd.
cannot be comparable to the assessee ;
(ii) the observation of the ITAT, Delhi Bench in the case of Agnity India
Technologies Pvt. Ltd. in ITA No.3856 (Del)/2010 at para 5.2 thereof, that
Infosys Technologies Ltd. being a giant company and market leader assuming all
risks leading to higher profits cannot be considered as comparable to captive
service providers assuming limited risk ;
(iii) the company has generated several inventions and filed for many patents
in India and USA ;
(iv) the company has substantial revenues from software products and the break
up of such revenues is not available ;
(v) the company has incurred huge expenditure for research and development;
(vi) the company has made arrangements towards acquisition of IPRs in
'AUTOLAY', a commercial application product used in designing high performance
structural systems.
In view of the above reasons, the learned Authorised Representative pleaded
that, this company i.e. Infosys Technologies Ltd., be excluded form the list
of comparable companies.
11.3 Per contra, opposing the contentions of the assessee, the learned
Departmental Representative submitted that comparability cannot be decided
merely on the basis of scale of operations and the brand attributable profit
margins of this company have not been extraordinary. In view of this, the
learned Departmental Representative supported the decision of the TPO to
include this company in the list of comparable companies.
26
IT(TP)A Nos.33 & 115/Bang/2013 11.4 We have heard the rival submissions and
perused and carefully considered the material on record. We find that the
assessee has brought on record sufficient evidence to establish that this
company is functionally dis- similar and different from the assessee and hence
is not comparable and the finding rendered in the case of Trilogy E-Business
Software India Pvt. Ltd. (supra) for Assessment Year 2007-08 is applicable to
this year also. We are inclined to concur with the argument put forth by the
assessee that Infosys Technologies Ltd is not functionally comparable since it
owns significant intangible and has huge revenues from software products. It
is also seen that the break up of revenue from software services and software
products is not available. In this view of the matter, we hold that this
company ought to be omitted from the set of comparable companies. It is
ordered accordingly.
12\. Wipro Ltd.
12.1 This company was selected as a comparable by the TPO. Before the TPO, the
assessee had objected to the inclusion of this company in the list of
comparables on several grounds like functional dis-similarity, brand value,
size, etc. The TPO, IT(TP)A 1380/Bang/2012 Page 26 of 34 however, brushed
aside the objections of the assessee and included this company in the set of
comparables.
12.2 Before us, the learned Authorised Representative of the assessee
contended that this company i.e. Wipro Ltd., is not functionally comparable to
the assessee for the following reasons :-
(i) This company owns significant intangibles in the nature of customer
related intangibles and technology related intangibles, owns IPRs and has been
granted 40 registered patents and has 62 pending applications and its Annual
Report confirms that it owns patents and intangibles.
(ii) the ITAT, Delhi observation in the case of Agnity India Technologies Pvt.
Ltd. in ITA No.3856(Del)/2010 at para 5.2 thereof, that Infosys Technologies
Ltd. being a giant company and a market leader assuming all risks leading to
higher profits, cannot be considered as comparable to captive service
providers assuming limited risk;
(iii) the co-ordinate bench of the ITAT, Mumbai in the case of Telecordia
Technologies India Pvt. Ltd. (ITA No.7821/Mum/2011) has held that Wipro Ltd.
is not functionally comparable to a software service provider.
(iv) this company has acquired new companies pursuant to a scheme of
amalgamation in the last two years.
27
IT(TP)A Nos.33 & 115/Bang/2013
(v) Wipro Ltd. is engaged in both software development and product development
services. No information is available on the segmental bifurcation of revenue
from sale of products and software services.
(vi) the TPO has adopted consolidated financial statements for comparability
purposes and for computing the margins, which is in contradiction to the TPO's
own filter of rejecting companies with consolidated financial statements.
12.3 Per contra, the learned Departmental Representative supported the action
of the TPO in including this company in the list of comparables.
12.4.1 We have heard both parties and carefully perused and considered the
material on record. We find merit in the contentions of the assessee for
exclusion of this company from the set of comparables. It is seen that this
company is engaged both in software development and product development
services. There is no information on the segmental bifurcation of revenue from
sale of product and software services. The TPO appears to have adopted this
company as a comparable without demonstrating how the company satisfies the
software development sales 75% of the total revenue filter adopted by him.
Another major flaw in the comparability analysis carried out by the TPO is
that he adopted comparison of the consolidated financial statements of Wipro
with the stand alone financials of the assessee; which is not an appropriate
comparison. 12.4.2 We also find that this company owns intellectual property
in the form of registered patents and several pending applications for grant
of patents. In this regard, the coordinate bench of this Tribunal in the case
of 24/7 Customer.Com Pvt. Ltd. (ITA No.227/Bang/2010) has held that a company
owning intangibles cannot be compared to a low risk captive service provider
who does not own any such intangible and hence does not have an additional
advantage in the market. As the assessee in the case on hand does not own any
intangibles, following the aforesaid decision of the co-ordinate bench of the
Tribunal i.e. 24/7 Customer.Com Pvt. Ltd. (supra), we hold that this company
cannot be considered as a comparable to the assessee. We, therefore, direct
the Assessing Officer/TPO to omit this company from the set of comparable
companies in the case on hand for the year under consideration."
13\. Tata Elxsi Ltd.
13.1 This company was a comparable selected by the TPO. Before the TPO, the
assessee had objected to the inclusion of this company in the set of
comparables on several counts like, functional dis-similarity, significant R&D
activity, brand value, size, etc. The TPO, however, rejected the contention
put forth by the assessee and included this company in the set of comparables.
28
IT(TP)A Nos.33 & 115/Bang/2013 13.2 Before us it was reiterated by the learned
Authorised Representative that this company is not functionally comparable to
the assessee as it performs a variety of functions under software development
and services segment namely
\- (a) product design, (b) innovation design engineering and (c) visual
computing labs as is reflected in the annual report of the company. The
learned Authorised Representative submitted that,
(i) The co-ordinate bench of the Mumbai Tribunal in the case of Telcordia
Technologies (P.) Ltd. (supra) has held that Tata Elxsi Ltd. is not a
functionally comparable for a software development service provider.
(ii) The facts pertaining to Tata Elxsi Ltd .
have not changed from the earlier year i.e. Assessment Year 2007-08 to the
period under considerationi.e. Assessment Year 2008-09 and therefore this
company cannot be considered as a comparable to the assessee in the case on
hand.
(iii) Tata Elxsi Ltd . is predominantly engaged in product designing services
and is not purely a software development service provider. In the Annual
Report of this company the description of the segment ' software development
services' relates to design services and are not to software services provided
by the assessee.
(iv) Tata Elxsi Ltd . invests substantial funds in research and development
activities which has resulted in the 'Embedded Product Design Services
Segment' of the company to create a portfolio of reusable software components,
ready to deploy frameworks, licensable IPs and products. The learned
Authorised  29 IT(TP)A Nos.33 & 115/Bang/2013 Representative pleads that in
view of the above reasons, Tata Elxsi Ltd . is clearly functionally
different/dis-similar from the assessee and therefore ought to be omitted form
the list of comparables.
13.3 Per contra, the learned Departmental Representative supported the stand
of the TPO in including this company in the list of comparables.
13.4 We have heard both parties and carefully perused and considered the
material on record. From the details on record, we find that this company is
predominantly engaged in product designing services and not purely software
development services. The details in the Annual Report show that the segment "
software development services" relates to design services and are not similar
to software development services performed by the assessee.
13.5 The Hon'ble Mumbai Tribunal in the case of Telcordia Technologies India
(P.) Ltd . (supra) has held that Tata Elxsi Ltd . is not a software
development service provider and therefore it is not functionally comparable.
In this context the relevant portion of this order is extracted and reproduced
below :--
" .... Tata Elxsi is engaged in development of niche product and development
services which is entirely different from the assessee company. We agree with
the contention of the learned Authorised Representative that the nature of
product developed and services provided by this company are different from the
assessee as have been narrated in para 6.6 above. Even the segmental details
for revenue sales have not been provided by the TPO so as to consider it as a
comparable party for comparing the profit ratio from product and services.
Thus, on these facts, we are unable to treat this company as fit for
comparability analysis for determining the arm's length price for the
assessee, hence, should be excluded from the list of comparable portion." As
can be seen from the extracts of the Annual Report of this company produced
before us, the facts pertaining to Tata Elxsi have not changed from Assessment
Year 2007-08 to Assessment Year 2008-09. We, therefore, hold that this company
is not to be considered for inclusion in the set of comparables in the case on
hand. It is ordered accordingly.
30
IT(TP)A Nos.33 & 115/Bang/2013
14\. E-Zest Solutions Ltd.
14.1 This company was selected by the TPO as a comparable. Before the TPO, the
assessee had objected to the inclusion of this company as a comparable on the
ground that it was functionally different from the assessee. The TPO had
rejected the objections raised by the assessee on the ground that as per the
information received in response to notice under section 133(6) of the Act,
this company is engaged in software development services and satisfies all the
filters.
14.2 Before us, the learned Authorised Representative contended that this
company ought to be excluded from the list of comparables on the ground that
it is functionally different to the assessee. It is submitted by the learned
Authorised Representative that this company is engaged in 'e-Business
Consulting Services', consisting of Web Strategy Services, I T design services
and in Technology Consulting Services including product development consulting
services. These services, the learned Authorised Representative contends, are
high end ITES normally categorised as knowledge process Outsourcing ('KPO')
services. It is further submitted that this company has not provided segmental
data in its Annual Report. The learned Authorised Representative submits that
since the Annual Report of the company does not contain detailed descriptive
information on the business of the company, the assessee places reliance on
the details available on the company's website which should be considered
while evaluating the company's functional profile. It is also submitted by the
learned Authorised Representative that KPO services are not comparable to
software development services and therefore companies rendering KPO services
ought not to be considered as comparable to software development companies and
relied on the decision of the co- ordinate bench in the case of Capital IQ
Information Systems (India) (P.) Ltd . v. Dy. CIT (International Taxation)
[2013] 32 taxmann.com 21 (Hyd. - Trib.) and prayed that in view of the above
reasons, this company i.e. e-Zest software Ltd., ought to be omitted from the
list of comparables.
14.3 Per contra, the learned Departmental Representative supported the
inclusion of this company in the list of comparables by the TPO.
14.4 We have heard the rival submissions and perused and carefully considered
the material on record. It is seen from the record that the TPO has included
this company in the list of comparbales only on the basis of the statement
made by the company in its reply to the notice under section 133(6) of the
Act. It appears that the TPO has not examined the services rendered by the
company to give a finding  31 IT(TP)A Nos.33 & 115/Bang/2013 whether the
services performed by this company are similar to the software development
services performed by the assessee. From the details on record, we find that
while the assessee is into software development services, this company i.e.
e-Zest software Ltd., is rendering product development services and high end
technical services which come under the category of KPO services. It has been
held by the co-ordinate bench of this Tribunal in the case of Capital I-Q
Information Systems (India) (P.) Ltd. (supra) that KPO services are not
comparable to software development services and are therefore not comparable.
Following the aforesaid decision of the co-ordinate bench of the Hyderabad
Tribunal in the aforesaid case, we hold that this company, i.e. e-Zest
software Ltd . be omitted from the set of comparables for the period under
consideration in the case on hand. The A.O./TPO is accordingly directed.
15\. Thirdware Solutions Ltd. (Segment) 15.1 This company was proposed for
inclusion in the list of comparables by the TPO. Before the TPO, the assessee
objected to the inclusion of this company in the list of comparables on the
ground that its turnover was in excess of Rs. 500 Crores. Before us, the
assessee has objected to the inclusion of this company as a comparable for the
reason that apart from software development services, it is in the business of
product development and trading in software and giving licenses for use of
software. In this regard, the learned Authorised Representative submitted that
:--
(i) This company is engaged in product development and earns revenue from sale
of licences and subscription. It has been pointed out from the Annual Report
that the company has not provided any separate segmental profit and loss
account for software development services and product development services.
(ii) In the case of E-Gain Communications (P.) Ltd. v. ITO [2009] 118 ITD
243/[2008] 23 SOT 385 (Pune), the Tribunal has directed that this company be
omitted as a comparable for software service providers, as its income includes
income from sale of licences which has increased the margins of the company.
32
IT(TP)A Nos.33 & 115/Bang/2013 The learned A.R. prayed that in the light of
the above facts and in view of the afore cited decision of the Tribunal
(supra), this company ought to be omitted from the list of comparables.
15.2 Per contra, the learned Departmental Representative supported the action
of the TPO in including this company in the list of comparables.
15.3 We have heard the rival submissions and perused and carefully considered
the material on record. It is seen from the material on record that the
company is engaged in product development and earns revenue from sale of
licenses and subscription. However, the segmental profit and loss accounts for
software development services and product development are not given
separately. Further, as pointed out by the learned Authorised Representative,
the Pune Bench of the Tribunal in the case of E-Gain Communications (P.) Ltd.
(supra) has directed that since the income of this company includes income
from sale of licenses, it ought to be rejected as a comparable for software
development services. In the case on hand, the assessee is rendering software
development services. In this factual view of the matter and following the
afore cited decision of the Pune Tribunal (supra), we direct that this company
be omitted from the list of comparables for the period under consideration in
the case on hand.
16\. Lucid Software Ltd.
16.1 This company was selected as a comparable by the TPO. Before us, the
assessee has objected to the inclusion of this company as a comparable on the
grounds that it is into software product development and therefore
functionally different from the assessee. In this regard, the learned
Authorised Representative submitted that --
     (i)             This    company     is   engaged     in   the    development
                     of software products.
    (ii)             This company has been held to be functionally different and
therefore not comparable to software service providers by the order of a co-
ordinate bench of the Tribunal in the assessee's own case for Assessment Year
2007-08 (IT(TP)A No.845/Bang/2011), following the decision of Mumbai Tribunal
in the case of Telcordia Technologies India (P.) Ltd.(ITA No.7821/Mum/2011)
33 IT(TP)A Nos.33 & 115/Bang/2013
(iii) The rejection of this company as a comparable to software service
providers has been upheld by the co-ordinate benches of this Tribunal in the
cases of LG Soft India (P.) Ltd and CSR India (P.) Ltd. (supra) and by the
Delhi Bench of the Tribunal in the case of Transwitch India (P.) Ltd.
(supra).(ITA No.6083/Del/2010)
(iv) The factual position and circumstances pertaining to this company has not
changed from the earlier Assessment Year 2007-08 to the period under
consideration i.e. Assessment Year 2008-09 and therefore on this basis, this
company cannot be considered as a comparable in the case on hand.
( v) The relevant portion of the Annual Report of this company evidences that
it is in the business of product development.
The learned Authorised Representative prays that in view of the factual
position as laid out above and the decisions of the co-ordinate benches of the
Tribunal in the assessee's own case for Assessment Year 2007-08 and other
cases cited above, it is clear that this company being into product
development cannot be considered as a comparable to the assessee in the case
on hand who is a software service provider and therefore this company
i.e.Lucid software Ltd., ought to be omitted from the list of comparables.
16.2 per contra, the learned Departmental Representative supported the action
and finding of the TPO in including this company in the list of comparables.
16.3 We have heard the rival submissions and perused and carefully considered
the material on record. It is seen from the details on record that the company
i.e. Lucid software Ltd., is engaged in the development of software products
whereas the assessee, in the case on hand, is in the business of providing
software development services. We also find that, co-ordinate benches of the
Tribunal in the assessee's own case for Assessment Year 2007- 08 (IT(TP)A
No.845/Bang/2011), LG Soft India (P.) Ltd. (supra), CSR India (P.) Ltd.
(supra); the ITAT, Mumbai Bench in the case of Telcordia Technologies India
(P.) Ltd (supra) and the Delhi ITAT in the case of Transwitch India (P.) Ltd.
(supra) have held, that since this company, is engaged in the software product
development and not software development services, it is functionally
different and dis-similar and is therefore to be omitted from the list of
comparables for software development service providers. The assessee has also
brought on record details to demonstrate that the factual and  34 IT(TP)A
Nos.33 & 115/Bang/2013 other circumstances pertaining to this company have not
changed materially from the earlier year i.e. Assessment Year 2007-08 to the
period under consideration i.e. Assessment Year 2008-09. In this factual
matrix and following the afore cited decisions of the co-ordinate benches of
this Tribunal and of the ITAT, Mumbai and Delhi Benches (supra), we direct
that this company be omitted from the list of comparables for the period under
consideration in the case on hand.
17\. Persistent Systems Ltd.
17.1 This company was selected by the TPO as a comparable. The assessee
objected to the inclusion of this company as a comparable for the reasons that
this company being engaged in software product designing and analytic
services, it is functionally different and further that segmental results are
not available. The TPO rejected the assessee's objections on the ground that
as per the Annual Report for the company for Financial Year 2007-08, it is
mainly a software development company and as per the details furnished in
reply to the notice under section 133(6) of the Act, software development
constitutes 96% of its revenues. In this view of the matter, the Assessing
Officer included this company i.e. Persistent Systems Ltd., in the list of
comparables as it qualified the functionality criterion.
17.2 Before us, the assessee objected to the inclusion of this company as a
comparable submitting that this company is functionally different and also
that there are several other factors on which this company cannot be taken as
a comparable. In this regard, the learned Authorised Representative submitted
that :
(i) This company is engaged in software designing services and analytic
services and therefore it is not purely a software development service
provider as is the assessee in the case on hand.
(ii) Page 60 of the Annual Report of the company for F.Y. 2007-08 indicates
that this company, is predominantly engaged in 'Outsourced software Product
Development Services' for independent software vendors and enterprises.
(iii) Website extracts indicate that this company is in the business of
product design services.
35
IT(TP)A Nos.33 & 115/Bang/2013
(iv) The ITAT, Mumbai Bench in the case of Telcordia Technologies India (P.)
Ltd. (supra) while discussing the comparability of another company, namely
Lucid Software Ltd. had rendered a finding that in the absence of segmental
information, a company be taken into account for comparability analysis. This
principle is squarely applicable to the company presently under consideration,
which is into product development and product design services and for which
the segmental data is not available.
The learned Authorised Representative prays that in view of the above, this
company i.e. Persistent Systems Ltd. be omitted from the list of comparables.
17.2 Per contra, the learned Departmental Representative support the action of
the TPO in including this company in the list of comparables.
17.3 We have heard the rival submissions and perused and carefully considered
the material on record. It is seen from the details on record that this
company i.e. Persistent Systems Ltd., is engaged in product development and
product design services while the assessee is a software development services
provider. We find that, as submitted by the assessee, the segmental details
are not given separately. Therefore, following the principle enunciated in the
decision of the Mumbai Tribunal in the case of Telcordia Technologies India
(P.) Ltd. (supra) that in the absence of segmental details/information a
company cannot be taken into account for comparability analysis, we hold that
this company i.e. Persistent Systems Ltd. ought to be omitted from the set of
comparables for the year under consideration. It is ordered accordingly.
18\. Quintegra SolutionsLtd.
18.1 This case was selected by the TPO as a comparable. Before the TPO, the
assessee objected to the inclusion of this company in the set of comparables
on the ground that this company is functionally different and also that there
were peculiar economic circumstances in the form of acquisitions made during
the year. The TPO rejected the assessee's objections holding that this company
qualifies all the filters applied by the TPO. On the issue of acquisitions,
the TPO rejected the assessee's objections observing that the assessee has not
adduced any evidence as to how this event had an any influence on the pricing
or the margin earned.
36
IT(TP)A Nos.33 & 115/Bang/2013 18.2 Before us, the assessee objected to the
inclusion of this company for the reason that it is functionally different and
also that there are other factors for which this company cannot be considered
as a comparable. It was submitted that,
(i) Quintegra Solutions Ltd., the company under consideration, is engaged in
product engineering services and not in purely software development services.
The Annual Report of this company also states that it is engaged in
preparatory software products and is therefore not similar to the assessee in
the case on hand.
(ii) In its Annual Report, the services rendered by the company are described
as under :
"Leveraging its proven global model, Quintegra provides a full range of custom
IT Solution (such as development, testing, maintenance, SAP, product
engineering and infrastructure management services), proprietary software
products and consultancy services in IT on various platforms and
technologies."
(iii) This company is also engaged in research and development activities
which resulted in the creation of Intellectual Proprietary Rights (IPRs) as
can be evidenced from the statements made in the Annual Report of the company
for the period under consideration, which is as under :
"Quintegra has taken various measures to preserve its intelectual property.
Accordingly, some of the products developed by the company ...............
have been covered by the patent rights. The company has also applied for trade
mark registration for one of its products, viz. Investor Protection Index Fund
(IPIF). These measures will help the company enhance its products value and
also mitigate risks."
(iv) The TPO has applied the filter of excluding companies having peculiar
economic circumstances. Quintegra fails the TPO's own filter since there have
been acquisitions in this case, as is evidenced from the company's Annual
Report for F.Y. 2007-
37
IT(TP)A Nos.33 & 115/Bang/2013 08, the period under consideration.
The learned Authorised Representative prays that in view of the submissions
made above, it is clear that inter alia, this company i.e. Quintegra Solution
Ltd. being functionally different and possessing its own intangibles/IPRs, it
cannot be considered as a comparable to the assessee in the case on hand and
therefore ought to be excluded from the list of comparables for the period
under consideration.
18.3 Per contra, the learned Departmental Representative supported the action
of the TPO in including this company in the set of comparables to the assessee
for the period under consideration.
18.4 We have heard the rival submissions and perused and carefully considered
the material on record. It is seen from the details brought on record that
this company i.e. Quintegra Solutions Ltd. is engaged in product engineering
services and is not purely a software development service provider as is the
assessee in the case on hand. It is also seen that this company is also
engaged in proprietary software products and has substantial R&D activity
which has resulted in creation of its IPRs. Having applied for trade mark
registration of its products, it evidences the fact that this company owns
intangible assets. The co-ordinate bench of this Tribunal in the case of 24/7
Customer.Com (P.) Ltd. (supra) has held that if a company possesses or owns
intangibles or IPRs, then it cannot be considered as a comparable company to
one that does not own intangibles and requires to be omitted form the list of
comparables, as in the case on hand.
18.5 We also find from the Annual Report of Quintegra Solution Ltd. that there
have been acquisitions made by it in the period under consideration. It is
settled principle that where extraordinary events have taken place, which has
an effect on the performance of the company, then that company shall be
removed from the list of comparables.
18.6 Respectfully following the decision of the co-ordinate bench of the
Tribunal in the case of 24/7 Customer.Com (P.) Ltd. (supra), we direct that
this company i.e. Quintegra Solution Ltd. be excluded from the list of
comparables in the case on hand since it is engaged in proprietary software
products and owns its own intangibles unlike the assessee in the case on hand
who is a software service provider.
38
IT(TP)A Nos.33 & 115/Bang/2013
19\. Softsol India Ltd.
19.1 This company was selected by the TPO as a comparable. The assessee
objected to the inclusion of this company as a comparable on the grounds that
this company is functionally different and dis-similar from it. The TPO
rejected the assessee's objections on the ground that as per the company's
reply to the notice under section 133(6) of the Act, the company has
categorized itself as a pure software developer and therefore included this
company as a comparable as the assessee was also a provider of software
development services. Before us, in addition to the plea that the company was
functionally different, the assessee submitted that this company was excluded
from the list of comparables by the order of the co-ordinate bench of this
Tribunal in the assessee's own case for Assessment Year 2007-08 (ITA No.
845/Bang./2011) on the ground that the 'Related Party Transactions ('RPT') is
in excess of 15%. The learned Authorised Representative submitted that for the
current period under consideration, the RPT is 18.3% and therefore this
company requires to be omitted from the list of comparables.
19.2 Per contra, the learned Departmental Representative supported the action
of the TPO in including this company in the list of comparables as this
company was a pure software development service provider like the assessee.
19.3 We have heard both parties and perused and carefully considered the
material on record. We find that the co-ordinate bench of this Tribunal in the
assessee's own case for Assessment Year 2007-08 in ITA No.845/Bang/2011 has
excluded this company from the set of comparables for the reason that RPT is
in excess of 15% following the decision of another bench of this Tribunal in
the case of 24/7 Customer.Com (P.) Ltd. (supra). As the facts for this year
are similar and material on record also indicates that RPT is 18.3%, following
the afore cited decisions of the co-ordinate benches (supra), we hold that
this company is to be omitted from the list of comparables to the assessee in
the case on hand.
23\. Thus, it is clear from the findings of the Co-ordinate Bench of the
Tribunal in the case of M/s 3DPLM Software Solutions Ltd (supra) that except
Bodhtree Ltd all other 12 companies were found to be not good comparables of
the software development services as provided by assessee.
24\. As regard the objection of the ld. DR that Quintegra Solution Ltd. has
been selected by the assessee itself, we notice that the functional
comparability of this company has been examined by the Tribunal in the case of
M/s 3DPLM Software Solutions Ltd (supra) and it was found that the said
company is engaged in the different field of services i.e. product designing
and analytic services as well as in proprietary of software product and are in
research and development activity which has resulted in creation of its
intellectual property rights. Therefore, the said  39 IT(TP)A Nos.33 &
115/Bang/2013 company is not functionally comparable with pure software
development service activity. Once the company is found to be a non-comparable
company with the assessee, the same is required to be excluded from the set of
comparables even if the said company is selected by the assessee itself. This
view was taken by the decision of the Special Bench of Chandigarh Tribunal in
the case QUARK SYSTEMS (P.) LTD (supra).
25\. Thus, out of 20 comparables 12 companies are required to be excluded from
the list of comparables for determining the ALP. Accordingly, we direct the
TPO/AO to exclude the following companies from the set of comparables and
recomputed the ALP after considering the claim of risk adjustment as well as
working capital adjustment:
                     S.No.              Name of the Company
                         1 AvaniCimcon Technologies Ltd
                         2 Celestial Biolabs Ltd
                         3 E-Zest Solutions Ltd
                         4 Infosys Technologies Ltd
                         5 KALS Information Systems Ltd (Seg.)
                         6 Lucid Software Ltd
                         7 Persistent Systems Ltd
                         8 Quintegra Solutions Ltd
                         9 Softsole India Ltd
                        10 Tata Elxsi Ltd (Seg.)
                        11 Thirdware Solutions Ltd (Seg
                        12 Wipro Ltd (Seg.)"
Thus it is clear from the decision of co-ordinate bench of this Tribunal in
the case of Kodiak Network (India) Pvt. Ltd. (supra) that out of 13
comparables sought to be excluded from the set of comparables the Tribunal
found that 12 comparables as listed above are not functionally not comparable
with software development service provider. Accordingly, following the order
of this Tribunal in the case of Kodiak Network (India)  40 IT(TP)A Nos.33 &
115/Bang/2013 Pvt. Ltd. (supra), we direct the A.O./TPO to exclude 12
comparable companies from the set of comparables.
11.1 The next grievance of the assessee is regarding incorrect operating
margin taken by the TPO. The learned Authorised Representative of the assessee
has submitted that the TPO has computed the profit margin of the assessee
without excluding the Fringe Benefit Tax ('FBT'). The learned Authorised
Representative has referred to the decision of the Tribunal in assessee's case
for the asst. year 2007-08 and submitted that an identical issue has been
decided by the Tribunal by directing the A.O./TPO not to consider the FBT as
part of the operating cost of the assessee when the same was not considered as
part of the OC in the case of the comparables. The learned Authorised
Representative has submitted that while computing the operating margin the TPO
has considered the total expenditure at page 138 of the paper book showing
that the total cost includes FBT. The learned Authorised Representative has
then referred to page 176 of the paper book, the computation of total income
at page 176 of paper book wherein the provision for FBT has been separately
shown as an item not allowable. Thus he has pleaded  41 IT(TP)A Nos.33 &
115/Bang/2013 that the TPO may be directed to compute the correct PLI after
excluding the FBT from the operating cost.
11.2 On the other hand, the learned Departmental Representative has relied
upon the orders of the authorities below.
11.3 Having considered the rival submissions and careful perusal of the
relevant record, we find that in the segment-wise margin the total expenses
includes FBT. The assessee has given the details of FBT in the computation
statement amounting to Rs.13,46,722/-. We find that for the asst. year
2007-08, this Tribunal in assessee's own case vide order dt.
23.11.2012 has directed the TPO that the FBT should not be considered as part
of the operating cost of the assessee when the same was not considered by the
TPO as part of the operating cost. Accordingly, we direct the TPO to consider
the operating margin of the assessee after excluding the FBT from the
operating cost.
12\. The assessee is also seeking risk adjustment being a captive service
provider. The learned Authorised Representative of the assessee has submitted
that the Tribunal in the case of Kodiak Network (India) Pvt. Ltd. (supra) as
well as in the case of 3DPLM Software Solution Ltd.
42
IT(TP)A Nos.33 & 115/Bang/2013 Vs. DCIT in IT(TP)A No.1303/Bang/2012 has held
that the TPO should consider the risk adjustment while computing the ALP.
12.1 The learned Departmental Representative has submitted that the assessee
is required to furnish complete details and computation of the risk
adjustment. In the absence of complete details of computation the risk
adjustment cannot be granted as a matter of right. He has relied upon the
orders of the authorities below.
12.2 Having considered the rival submissions and relevant material on record,
we find that in the case of Kodiak Network (India) Pvt. Ltd.
(supra), the Tribunal in para 25 has directed the TPO to consider the risk
adjustment. Similarly in the case of 3DPLM Software Solutions Ltd.
(supra) the Tribunal has held as under :
" 20.3 We have heard both the learned Authorised Representative and learned
Departmental Representative in the matter and perused and carefully considered
the material on record. As regards risk adjustment, the TPO has not allowed
any adjustment by observing that this has been considered and discussed in
detail in the order for earlier years. We find that on similar facts,
different co-ordinate benches of this Tribunal in the case of Intellinet
Technologies India Pvt. Ltd. (ITA No.237/Bang/2010) and Bearing Point Business
Consulting Pvt. Ltd. (ITA No.1124/Bang/2011) have held that the TPO ought to
have given risk adjustment to the margins of the comparables for bringing them
on par with the assessee and remanded the issue back to the file of the TPO.
Following the decisions in the aforementioned cases of the co-ordinate benches
of this Tribunal (supra), we remand the issue of market risk adjustment to the
file of the Assessing Officer/TPO for examining the issue in the light of the
decisions cited."
43
IT(TP)A Nos.33 & 115/Bang/2013 In view of the above decisions of the co-
ordinate benches of the Tribunal, we direct the TPO to consider the risk
adjustment of the margins of comparables for bringing them on par with the
assessee.
12.1 The next issue raised by the assessee is regarding web site creation
expenses which has been disallowed by the A.O by treating the same as capital
in nature.
12.2 The learned Authorised Representative of the assessee has submitted that
an identical issue has been considered by the Tribunal in the assessee's own
case for the asst. year 2007-08 and the issue was remanded to the record of
the A.O. for proper verification and examination. He has further submitted
that for the asst. year 2010-11, the A.O. has allowed the depreciation on the
amount of expenditure incurred on the web site creation. However, since the
dispute regarding the earlier year is pending therefore the A.O. allowed the
depreciation only on the expenditure incurred during the said year. Thus the
learned Authorised Representative has submitted that the Tribunal may pass
appropriate direction to the A.O/TPO in this regard.
44
IT(TP)A Nos.33 & 115/Bang/2013 12.3 On the other hand, the learned
Departmental Representative has relied upon the orders of the authorities
below and submitted that the Tribunal has already set aside to the record of
the A.O./TPO for proper verification for the A.Y. 2007-08. By following the
same, the issue may be remitted to the A.O. with similar direction.
12.4 We have considered the rival submission as well as relevant material on
record. Without going into the controversy of allowable revenue expenditure we
are of the view that even if this expenditure is considered as capital in
nature, the assessee is entitled for depreciation on the entire expenditure
incurred once the work of web site creation is completed. The A.O has already
allowed the depreciation for the asst.
year 2010-11. Therefore, we uphold the orders of the authorities below
treating the said expenditure as capital in nature, however, the assessee may
claim depreciation on the entire amount from the year in which the work is
completed and the asset has come into existence.
13\. Now we will take up the revenue's appeal wherein the revenue has raised
the following grounds :
" 1. The order of the learned CIT (Appeals) is opposed to law and facts of the
case.
45
IT(TP)A Nos.33 & 115/Bang/2013
2\. On the facts and in the circumstances of the case the learned CIT
(Appeals) has erred in holding that the size and turnover of the company are
deciding factors for treating a company as a comparable, and accordingly erred
in excluding M/s. Flextronics Ltd., M/s. iGAte Global Solutions Ltd., M/s.
Infosys Technologies Ltd., M/s. Mindtree Ltd., M/s. Persistent Systems Ltd.,
M/s. Sasken Communications Technologies Ltd., M/s. Tata Elxsi Ltd. and M/s.
Wipro Ltd. as comparable.
3\. On the facts and in the circumstances of the case the learned CIT
(Appeals) has erred in rejecting the diminishing revenue filter used by the
TPO to exclude companies that do not reflect the normal industry trend.
4\. On the facts and in the circumstances of the case the learned CIT
(Appeals) has erred inaccepting M/s. VGL Softech Ltd. as a comparable.
5\. On the facts and in the circumstances of the case the learned CIT
(Appeals) has erred in deleting M/s. Celestial Biolabs from the comparables as
functionally different.
6\. On the facts and in the circumstances of the case the learned CIT
(Appeals) has erred in holding that the reimbursement of expenditure towards
freight of Rs.1,27,288, telecommunication charges of Rs.65,70,127, insurance
charges of Rs.18,57,172, travelling and conveyance charges ofRs.2,71,19,823
are to be excluded from the total turnover as well, for computation of
deduction under Section 10A of the IT Act whereas such exclusion is permitted
to arrive at the export turnover only as per the definitions given in section
10A of the IT Act and total turnover has not been defined in section 10A of
the Act.
7\. The CIT (Appeals) ought to have appreciated that the decision of Hon'ble
High Court of Karnataka inthecase of M/s. Tata Elxsi Ltd. on the issue of
computing deduction under Section 10A by excluding the above expenses form
export turnover and total turnover as well, has not reached finality inview of
the pending Department's SLP before the Hon'ble Supreme Court.
8\. For these and other grounds that may be urged at the time of hearing, it
is prayed that the order of the CIT (Appeals) in so far as it relates to the
above grounds may be reversed and that of the Assessing Officer may be
restored.
46
IT(TP)A Nos.33 & 115/Bang/2013
9\. The appellant craves leave to add, alter, amend and / or delete any of the
grounds mentioned above."
13.1 The first grievance of the revenue's appeal is regarding the turnover
filter applied by the ld. CIT (Appeals). At the outset, the learned A.R. of
the assessee has submitted that when the comparable companies are otherwise
functionally dis-similar then at this stage the assessee will not insist for
application of turnover filter.
13.2 Having considered the rival submissions and in view of the fact that we
have already decided the functional comparability of the companies objected by
the assessee as well as the contention of the ld.
A.R. we allow this ground of the revenue's appeal and consequently modify the
impugned order of the CIT (Appeals).
14.1 The next grievance of the revenue's appeal is that VGS Software Tech Ltd.
was excluded by the TPO on the ground that the relevant data was not available
whereas the CIT (Appeals) has included this company by considering the data
filed by the assessee. Thus the learned Departmental Representative has
submitted that the CIT (Appeals) has decided the issue of comparability of
this company without giving an opportunity to the TPO/A.O to examine the same.
47
IT(TP)A Nos.33 & 115/Bang/2013 14.2 On the other hand, the learned Authorised
Representative of the assessee has submitted that relevant details were
available before the TPO/A.O, however, the TPO without considering the
relevant details has decided not to include this company in the set of
comparables. He has further contended that this company is otherwise
functionally comparable and the CIT (Appeals) has given a finding after
considering the relevant details and functional information.
14.3 Having considered the rival submission as well as the relevant material
on record, we find that the TPO has rejected this company on the ground that
the relevant data is not available in the public domain.
The CIT (Appeals) has considered the relevant details obtained under section
133(6) of the Act.
14.4 In view of the above facts when the TPO did not examine the relevant
details and data, we set aside this issue to the record of the TPO to consider
the relevant information of this company as filed by the assessee before the
CIT (Appeals) as well as before us. However, the learned Authorised
Representative has submitted that these details were available with the TPO.
In any case, we direct the TPO to consider the  48 IT(TP)A Nos.33 &
115/Bang/2013 relevant details and then decide the issue of comparability
after giving an opportunity of hearing to the assessee.
15\. The other objections of the revenue is regarding exclusion of certain
companies including Celestial Biolabs which stand decided in view of our
finding in the assessee's appeal in directing the 12 companies to be excluded
from the set of comparables.
16\. The next ground is regarding exclusion of freight charges,
telecommunication charges, insurance charges, travelling and financial charges
from the export turnover as well as total turnover while computing the
deduction u/s. 10A of the Act.
16.1 We have heard the rival submission and perused the material on record.
The Hon'ble Karnataka High Court in the case of CIT v M/s Tata Elxsi Ltd. &
Others 349 ITR 98 (Kar) had held that while computing the exemption u/s 10A,
if the export turnover in the numerator is to be arrived at after excluding
certain expenses, the same should also be excluded from the total turnover in
the denominator. The relevant finding of the Hon'ble jurisdictional High Court
reads as follows:-
> "...........Section 10A is enacted as an incentive to exporters to enable
> their products to be competitive in the global market  49 IT(TP)A Nos.33 &
> 115/Bang/2013 and consequently earn precious foreign exchange for the
> country. This aspect has to be borne in mind. While computing the
> consideration received from such export turnover, the expenses incurred
> towards freight, telecommunication charges, or insurance attributable to the
> delivery of the articles or things or computer software outside India, or
> expenses if any incurred in foreign exchange, in providing the technical
> services outside India should not be included. However, the word total
> turnover is not defined for the purpose of this section. It is because of
> this omission to define 'total turnover', the word 'total turnover' falls
> for interpretation by this Court;
........In section 10A, not only the word 'total turnover' is not defined,
there is no clue regarding what is to be excluded while arriving at the total
turnover. However, while interpreting the provisions of section 80HHC, the
courts have laid down various principles, which are independent of the
statutory provisions. There should be uniformity in the ingredients of both
the numerator and the denominator of the formula, since otherwise it would
produce anomalies or absurd results. Section 10A is a beneficial section which
intends to provide incentives to promote exports. In the case of combined
business of an assessee, having export business and domestic business, the
legislature intended to have a formula to ascertain the profits from export
business by apportioning the total profits of the business on the basis of
turnovers. Apportionment of profits on the basis of turnover was accepted as a
method of arriving at export profits. In the case of section 80HHC, the export
profit is to be derived from the total business income of the assxcessee,
whereas in section 10-A, the export profit is to be derived from the total
business of the undertaking. Even in the case of business of an undertaking,
it may include export business and domestic business, in other words, export
turnover and domestic turnover. To the extent of export turnover, there would
be a commonality between the numerator and the  50 IT(TP)A Nos.33 &
115/Bang/2013 denominator of the formula. If the export turnover in the
numerator is to be arrived at after excluding certain expenses, the same
should also be excluded in computing the export turnover as a component of
total turnover in the denominator. The reason being the total turnover
includes export turnover. The components of the export turnover in the
numerator and the denominator cannot be different. Therefore, though there is
no definition of the term 'total turnover' in section 10A, there is nothing in
the said section to mandate that, what is excluded from the numerator that is
export turnover would nevertheless form part of the denominator. When the
statute prescribed a formula and in the said formula, 'export turnover' is
defined, and when the 'total turnover' includes export turnover, the very same
meaning given to the export turnover by the legislature is to be adopted while
understanding the meaning of the total turnover, when the total turnover
includes export turnover. If what is excluded in computing the export turnover
is included while arriving at the total turnover, when the export turnover is
a component of total turnover, such an interpretation would run counter to the
legislative intent and impermissible. Thus, there is no error committed by the
Tribunal in following the judgements rendered in the context of section 80HHC
in interpreting section 10A when the principle underlying both these
provisions is one and the same".
16.2 The Hon'ble Bombay High Court in the case of CIT Vs. Gem Plus Jewellery
India Ltd. 330 ITR 175, in identical circumstances, held that since the export
turnover forms part of the total turnover, if an item is excluded from the
export turnover, the same should also be reduced from the total turnover to
maintain parity between numerator  51 IT(TP)A Nos.33 & 115/Bang/2013 and
denominator while calculating deduction u/s 10A of the Act. The relevant
finding of the Hon'ble Mumbai High Court reads as follows:-
> "The total turnover of the business carried on by the undertaking would
> consist of the turnover from export and the turnover from local sales. The
> export turnover constitutes the numerator in the formula prescribed by sub-
> section (4). Export turnover also forms a constituent element of the
> denominator in as much as the export turnover is a part of the total
> turnover. The export turnover, in the numerator must have the same meaning
> as the export turnover which is constituent element of the total turnover in
> the denominator. The legislature has provided a definition of the expression
> "export turnover" in Expln.2 to s.10A which the expression is defined to
> mean the consideration in respect of export by the undertaking of articles,
> things or computer software received in or brought into India by the
> assessee in convertible foreign exchange but so as not to include inter alia
> freight, telecommunication charges or insurance attributable to the delivery
> of the articles, things or software outside India. Therefore in computing
> the export turnover the legislature has made a specific exclusion of freight
> and insurance charges. The submission which has been urged on behalf of the
> revenue is that while freight and insurance charges are liable to be
> excluded in computing export turnover, a similar exclusion has not been
> provided in regard to total turnover. The submission of the revenue,
> however, misses the point that the expression "total turnover" has not been
> defined at all by Parliament for the purposes of s.10A. However, the
> expression "export turnover" has been defined. The definition of "export
> turnover" excludes freight and insurance. Since export turnover has been
> defined by Parliament and there is a specific exclusion of freight and
> insurance, the expression "export turnover" cannot have a different meaning
> when  52 IT(TP)A Nos.33 & 115/Bang/2013 it forms a constituent part of the
> total turnover for the purposes of the application of the formula.
> Undoubtedly, it was open to Parliament to make a provision which has been
> enunciated earlier must prevail as a matter of correct statutory
> interpretation. Any other interpretation would lead to an absurdity. If the
> contention of the Revenue were to be accepted, the same expression viz.
> 'export turnover' would have a different connotation in the application of
> the same formula. The submission of the Revenue would lead to a situation
> where freight and insurance, though these have been specifically excluded
> from 'export turnover' for the purposes of the numerator would be brought in
> as part of the 'export turnover' when it forms an element of the total
> turnover as a denominator in the formula. A construction of a statutory
> provision which would lead to an absurdity must be avoided. Moreover, a
> receipt such as freight and insurance which does not have any element of
> profit cannot be included in the total turnover. Freight and insurance
> charges do not have any element of turnover. For this reason in addition,
> these two items would have to be excluded from the total turnover
> particularly in the absence of a legislative prescription to the contrary -
> CIT v Sudarshan Chemicals Industries Ltd. (2000) 163 CTR (Bom) 596: (2000)
> 245 ITR 769 (Bom) applied; CIT v Lakshmi Machine Works (2007) 210 CTR (SC)
> 1: (2007) 290 ITR 667 (SC) and CIT v Catapharma (India) (P) Ltd. (2007) 211
> CTR (SC) 83: (2007) 292 ITR 641 (SC) relied on"
16.3 In the light of the above binding precedent, we are of the view that the
order of the CIT(A) is correct and in accordance with law and he is justified
in directing the AO to exclude the above mentioned expenses both from the
export turnover as well as from the total turnover while  53 IT(TP)A Nos.33 &
115/Bang/2013 calculating deduction u/s 10A of the Act. Accordingly, the
grounds raised on this issue by revenue are dismissed.
17\. In view of the above findings when we have directed the TPO to exclude 12
comparable companies and also to re-examine one of the companies, it is
directed to recompute the ALP after considering the correct operating margin
of the assessee as well as considering the risk adjustment. Needless to say
that the benefit of proviso to Section 92C(2) has to be considered if the
assessee's operating margin is within the tolerance range of mean margin.
18\. In the result, the appeals of the assessee as well as the revenue are
partly allowed.
Order pronounced in the open court on the 8th day of June, 2016.
                           Sd/-                               Sd/-
                  (INTURI RAMA RAO)                    (VIJAY PAL RAO)
                    Accountant Member                   Judicial Member
    *Reddy gp
> CTR (SC) 83: (2007) 292 ITR 641 (SC) relied on"
16.3 In the light of the above binding precedent, we are of the view that the
order of the CIT(A) is correct and in accordance with law and he is justified
in directing the AO to exclude the above mentioned expenses both from the
export turnover as well as from the total turnover while  53 IT(TP)A Nos.33 &
115/Bang/2013 calculating deduction u/s 10A of the Act. Accordingly, the
grounds raised on this issue by revenue are dismissed.
17\. In view of the above findings when we have directed the TPO to exclude 12
comparable companies and also to re-examine one of the companies, it is
directed to recompute the ALP after considering the correct operating margin
of the assessee as well as considering the risk adjustment. Needless to say
that the benefit of proviso to Section 92C(2) has to be considered if the
assessee's operating margin is within the tolerance range of mean margin.
18\. In the result, the appeals of the assessee as well as the revenue are
partly allowed.
Order pronounced in the open court on the 8th day of June, 2016.
    Date of Hearing : 18.5.2016.
    Date of Pronouncement : 08.06.2016.
                                  O R D E R
Per Shri Vijay Pal Rao, J.M. :
These Cross Appeals are directed against the order dated 6.11.2012 of
Commissioner of Income Tax (Appeals)-IV, Bangalore for the Assessment Year
2008-09.
2
IT(TP)A Nos.33 & 115/Bang/2013
2\. The assessee-company was incorporated in June 2000 and is wholly owned
subsidiary of Versata International Inc., (previously known as Trilogy Inc.).
During the financial year relevant to the assessment year under consideration,
the assessee has provided software development services as well as call centre
services to its Associated Enterprises (in short 'AEs'). The assessee is
compensated on cost +10% basis by its AEs for the services provided by the
assessee. The financial results of the assessee for the assessment year under
consideration are recorded by the Transfer Pricing Officer (in short 'TPO') in
paragraph 2.1 as under :
                                   ITES Rs.       Software Rs.       Total Rs.
    Total operating income          55,50,639      43,78,31,848    44,33,82,487
> CTR (SC) 83: (2007) 292 ITR 641 (SC) relied on"
16.3 In the light of the above binding precedent, we are of the view that the
order of the CIT(A) is correct and in accordance with law and he is justified
in directing the AO to exclude the above mentioned expenses both from the
export turnover as well as from the total turnover while  53 IT(TP)A Nos.33 &
115/Bang/2013 calculating deduction u/s 10A of the Act. Accordingly, the
grounds raised on this issue by revenue are dismissed.
17\. In view of the above findings when we have directed the TPO to exclude 12
comparable companies and also to re-examine one of the companies, it is
directed to recompute the ALP after considering the correct operating margin
of the assessee as well as considering the risk adjustment. Needless to say
that the benefit of proviso to Section 92C(2) has to be considered if the
assessee's operating margin is within the tolerance range of mean margin.
18\. In the result, the appeals of the assessee as well as the revenue are
partly allowed.
Order pronounced in the open court on the 8th day of June, 2016.
    Date of Hearing : 18.5.2016.
    Date of Pronouncement : 08.06.2016.
                                  O R D E R
Per Shri Vijay Pal Rao, J.M. :
These Cross Appeals are directed against the order dated 6.11.2012 of
Commissioner of Income Tax (Appeals)-IV, Bangalore for the Assessment Year
2008-09.
2
IT(TP)A Nos.33 & 115/Bang/2013
2\. The assessee-company was incorporated in June 2000 and is wholly owned
subsidiary of Versata International Inc., (previously known as Trilogy Inc.).
During the financial year relevant to the assessment year under consideration,
the assessee has provided software development services as well as call centre
services to its Associated Enterprises (in short 'AEs'). The assessee is
compensated on cost +10% basis by its AEs for the services provided by the
assessee. The financial results of the assessee for the assessment year under
consideration are recorded by the Transfer Pricing Officer (in short 'TPO') in
paragraph 2.1 as under :
                                   ITES Rs.       Software Rs.       Total Rs.
    Total operating income          55,50,639      43,78,31,848    44,33,82,487
> CTR (SC) 83: (2007) 292 ITR 641 (SC) relied on"
16.3 In the light of the above binding precedent, we are of the view that the
order of the CIT(A) is correct and in accordance with law and he is justified
in directing the AO to exclude the above mentioned expenses both from the
export turnover as well as from the total turnover while  53 IT(TP)A Nos.33 &
115/Bang/2013 calculating deduction u/s 10A of the Act. Accordingly, the
grounds raised on this issue by revenue are dismissed.
17\. In view of the above findings when we have directed the TPO to exclude 12
comparable companies and also to re-examine one of the companies, it is
directed to recompute the ALP after considering the correct operating margin
of the assessee as well as considering the risk adjustment. Needless to say
that the benefit of proviso to Section 92C(2) has to be considered if the
assessee's operating margin is within the tolerance range of mean margin.
18\. In the result, the appeals of the assessee as well as the revenue are
partly allowed.
Order pronounced in the open court on the 8th day of June, 2016.
    Date of Hearing : 18.5.2016.
    Date of Pronouncement : 08.06.2016.
                                  O R D E R
Per Shri Vijay Pal Rao, J.M. :
These Cross Appeals are directed against the order dated 6.11.2012 of
Commissioner of Income Tax (Appeals)-IV, Bangalore for the Assessment Year
2008-09.
2
IT(TP)A Nos.33 & 115/Bang/2013
2\. The assessee-company was incorporated in June 2000 and is wholly owned
subsidiary of Versata International Inc., (previously known as Trilogy Inc.).
During the financial year relevant to the assessment year under consideration,
the assessee has provided software development services as well as call centre
services to its Associated Enterprises (in short 'AEs'). The assessee is
compensated on cost +10% basis by its AEs for the services provided by the
assessee. The financial results of the assessee for the assessment year under
consideration are recorded by the Transfer Pricing Officer (in short 'TPO') in
paragraph 2.1 as under :
                                   ITES Rs.       Software Rs.       Total Rs.
    Total operating income          55,50,639      43,78,31,848    44,33,82,487
    Total operating cost            49,12,070     39,80,28,956     40,29,41,023
    Operating Profit                 6,38,569       3,98,02,895     4,04,41,464
    PBIT / Cost                           13%               10%          10.04%
    PBIT / Sales                       11.50%             9.09%            9.12%
3\. The assessee has reported international transactions in 92 CE report which
are reproduced by the TPO in paragraph 2.2 as under :
Sl.No. Type of Transaction Amount Received Amount Paid Rs.
Rs.
    1        SWD Services                      43,78,31,849
    2        ITES                                  55,50,639
    3        Reimbursement of expenses                               1,60,05,330
> CTR (SC) 83: (2007) 292 ITR 641 (SC) relied on"
16.3 In the light of the above binding precedent, we are of the view that the
order of the CIT(A) is correct and in accordance with law and he is justified
in directing the AO to exclude the above mentioned expenses both from the
export turnover as well as from the total turnover while  53 IT(TP)A Nos.33 &
115/Bang/2013 calculating deduction u/s 10A of the Act. Accordingly, the
grounds raised on this issue by revenue are dismissed.
17\. In view of the above findings when we have directed the TPO to exclude 12
comparable companies and also to re-examine one of the companies, it is
directed to recompute the ALP after considering the correct operating margin
of the assessee as well as considering the risk adjustment. Needless to say
that the benefit of proviso to Section 92C(2) has to be considered if the
assessee's operating margin is within the tolerance range of mean margin.
18\. In the result, the appeals of the assessee as well as the revenue are
partly allowed.
Order pronounced in the open court on the 8th day of June, 2016.
    Date of Hearing : 18.5.2016.
    Date of Pronouncement : 08.06.2016.
                                  O R D E R
Per Shri Vijay Pal Rao, J.M. :
These Cross Appeals are directed against the order dated 6.11.2012 of
Commissioner of Income Tax (Appeals)-IV, Bangalore for the Assessment Year
2008-09.
2
IT(TP)A Nos.33 & 115/Bang/2013
2\. The assessee-company was incorporated in June 2000 and is wholly owned
subsidiary of Versata International Inc., (previously known as Trilogy Inc.).
During the financial year relevant to the assessment year under consideration,
the assessee has provided software development services as well as call centre
services to its Associated Enterprises (in short 'AEs'). The assessee is
compensated on cost +10% basis by its AEs for the services provided by the
assessee. The financial results of the assessee for the assessment year under
consideration are recorded by the Transfer Pricing Officer (in short 'TPO') in
paragraph 2.1 as under :
                                   ITES Rs.       Software Rs.       Total Rs.
    Total operating income          55,50,639      43,78,31,848    44,33,82,487
    Total operating cost            49,12,070     39,80,28,956     40,29,41,023
    Operating Profit                 6,38,569       3,98,02,895     4,04,41,464
    PBIT / Cost                           13%               10%          10.04%
    PBIT / Sales                       11.50%             9.09%            9.12%
3\. The assessee has reported international transactions in 92 CE report which
are reproduced by the TPO in paragraph 2.2 as under :
Sl.No. Type of Transaction Amount Received Amount Paid Rs.
Rs.
    1        SWD Services                      43,78,31,849
    2        ITES                                  55,50,639
    3        Reimbursement of expenses                               1,60,05,330
> CTR (SC) 83: (2007) 292 ITR 641 (SC) relied on"
16.3 In the light of the above binding precedent, we are of the view that the
order of the CIT(A) is correct and in accordance with law and he is justified
in directing the AO to exclude the above mentioned expenses both from the
export turnover as well as from the total turnover while  53 IT(TP)A Nos.33 &
115/Bang/2013 calculating deduction u/s 10A of the Act. Accordingly, the
grounds raised on this issue by revenue are dismissed.
17\. In view of the above findings when we have directed the TPO to exclude 12
comparable companies and also to re-examine one of the companies, it is
directed to recompute the ALP after considering the correct operating margin
of the assessee as well as considering the risk adjustment. Needless to say
that the benefit of proviso to Section 92C(2) has to be considered if the
assessee's operating margin is within the tolerance range of mean margin.
18\. In the result, the appeals of the assessee as well as the revenue are
partly allowed.
Order pronounced in the open court on the 8th day of June, 2016.
