Central Government Act
the Drugs and Cosmetics Act, 1940
THE DRUGS AND COSMETICS ACT, 1940  
1. Short title, extent and commencement.—
(1) This Act may be called the Drugs 1[and Cosmetics] Act, 1940.
(2) It extends to the whole of India 2[***].
(3) It shall come into force at once; but Chapter III shall take effect only
from such date3 as the Central Government may, by notification in the Official
Gazette, appoint in this behalf, and Chapter IV shall take effect in a
particular State only from such date3 as the State Government may, by like
notification, appoint in this behalf: 4[Provided that in relation to the State
of Jammu and Kashmir, Chapter III shall take effect only from such date5 after
the commencement of the Drugs and Cosmetics (Amendment) Act, 1972 (19 of
1972), as the Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette,
appoint in this behalf.]
2. Application of other laws not barred.—The provisions of this Act shall be in addition to, and not in derogation of, the Dangerous Drugs Act, 1930 (2 of 1930), and any other law for the time being in force.
3 Definitions. —In this Act, unless there is anything repugnant in the subject
or context,—
1 [(a) “ 2 [Ayurvedic, Siddha or Unani] drug” includes all medicines intended
for internal or external use for or in the diagnosis, treatment, mitigation or
234\. Subs. by Act 68 of 1982, sec. 37, for certain words (w.e.f. 1-2-1983).
235\. The words “section 32 of” omitted by Act 13 of 1964, sec. 29 (w.e.f.
15-9-1964).
236\. Subs. by Act 68 of 1982, sec. 38, for “the Code of Criminal Procedure,
1898 (5 of 1898)” (w.e.f. 1-2-1983).
237\. Subs. by Act 68 of 1982, sec. 38, for “any Presidency Magistrate or any
Magistrate of the first class” (w.e.f. 1-2-1983).
238\. Subs. by Act 11 of 1955, sec. 16, for section 34 (w.e.f. 15-4-1955).
239\. Ins. by Act 68 of 1982, sec. 39 (w.e.f. 1-2-1983).
240\. Subs. by Act 26 of 2008, sec. 19, for “all offences under this Act”.
241\. Ins. by Act 26 of 2008, sec. 20.
242\. Subs. by Act 11 of 1955, sec. 16, for section 34 (w.e.f. 15-4-1955).
243\. Ins. by Act 26 of 2008, sec. 20.
244\. Subs. by Act 11 of 1955, sec. 16, for section 34 (w.e.f. 15-4-1955).
245\. Ins. by Act 26 of 2008, sec. 20.
246\. Subs. by Act 11 of 1955, sec. 16, for section 34 (w.e.f. 15-4-1955).
for internal or external use for or in the diagnosis, treatment, mitigation or
prevention of 3 [disease or disorder in human beings or animals, and
manufactured] exclusively in accordance with the formulae described in, the
authoritative books of 4 [Ayurvedic, Siddha and Unani Tibb systems of
medicine], specified in the First Schedule;]
5 [(aa) “the Board” means—
(i) in relation to 2 [Ayurvedic, Siddha or Unani] drug, the 6 [Ayurvedic,
Siddha and Unani Drugs Technical Advisory Board] constituted under section
33C; and
(ii) in relation to any other drug or cosmetic, the Drugs Technical Advisory
Board constituted under section 5;]
5 [ 7 [(aaa)] “cosmetic” means any article intended to be rubbed, poured,
sprinkled or sprayed on, or introduced into, or otherwise applied to, the
human body or any part thereof for cleansing, beautifying, promoting
attractiveness, or altering the appearance, and includes any article intended
for use as a component of cosmetic 8 [***];]
9 [(b) “drug” includes—
10 [(i) all medicines for internal or external use of human beings or animals
and all substances intended to be used for or in the diagnosis, treatment,
mitigation or prevention of any disease or disorder in human beings or
animals, including preparations applied on human body for the purpose of
repelling insects like mosquitoes;]
(ii) such substances (other than food) intended to affect the structure or any
function of the human body or intended to be used for the destruction of 11
[vermin] or insects which cause disease in human beings or animals, as may be
specified from time to time by the Central Government by notification in the
Official Gazette;]
12 [(iii) all substances intended for use as components of a drug including
empty gelatin capsules; and
(iv) such devices* intended for internal or external use in the diagnosis,
treatment, mitigation or prevention of disease or disorder in human beings or
animals, as may be specified from time to time by the Central Government by
notification in the Official Gazette, after consultation with the Board;]
13 [(c) “Government Analyst” means—
(i) in relation to 14 [Ayurvedic, Siddha or Unani] drug, a Government Analyst
appointed by the Central Government or a State Government under section 33F;
and
(ii) in relation to any other drug or cosmetic, a Government Analyst appointed
by the Central Government or a State Government under section 20;]
15 [***]
16 [(e) “Inspector” means—
(i) in relation to 14 [Ayurvedic, Siddha or Unani] drug, an Inspector
appointed by the Central Government or a State Government under section 33G;
and
(ii) in relation to any other drug or cosmetic, an Inspector appointed by the
Central Government or a State Government under section 21;]
17 [(f) “manufacture” in relation to any drug 18 [or cosmetic] includes any
process or part of a process for making, altering, ornamenting, finishing,
packing, labelling, breaking up or otherwise treating or adopting any drug 13
[or cosmetic] with a view to its 19 [sale or distribution] but does not
include the compounding or dispensing 20 [of any drug, or the packing of any
drug or cosmetic,] in the ordinary course of retail business; and “to
manufacture” shall be construed accordingly;]
21 [(g) ] “to import”, with its grammatical variations and cognate expressions
means to bring into 22 [ India ];
23 [(h) “patent or proprietary medicine” means,—
(i) in relation to Ayurvedic, Siddha or Unani Tibb systems of medicine all
formulations containing only such ingredients mentioned in the formulae
described in the authoritative books of Ayurveda, Siddha or Unani Tibb systems
of medicine specified in the First Schedule, but does not include a medicine
which is administered by parenteral route and also a formulation included in
the authoritative books as specified in clause (a);
(ii) in relation to any other systems of medicine, a drug which is a remedy or
prescription presented in a form ready for internal or external administration
of human beings or animals and which is not included in the edition of the
Indian Pharmacopoeia for the time being or any other Pharmacopoeia authorised
in this behalf by the Central Government after consultation with the Drugs
Technical Advisory Board constituted under section 5;]
24 [(i) “prescribed” means prescribed by rules made under this Act.] 25 [***]
* The Central Government has specified ( vide S.O. 1468(E), dated 6th October, 2005) the following devices intended for external or internal use in human beings or drugs with immediate effect, namely:—
(i) Cardiac Stents (vi) Bone Cements
(ii) Drug Eluding Stents (vii) Heart Valves
(iii) Catheters (viii) Sclap Vein Set
(iv) Intra Ocular Lenses (ix) Orthopaedic Implants
(v) I.V. Cannulac (x) Internal Prosthetic Replacements.
1[3A. Construction of references to any law not in force or any functionary
not in existence in the State of Jammu and Kashmir.—Any reference in this Act
to any law which is not in force, or any functionary not in existence, in the
State of Jammu and Kashmir, shall, in relation to that State, be construed as
a reference to the corresponding law in force, or to the corresponding
functionary in existence, in that State.] 6[3A. Construction of references to
any law not in force or any functionary not in existence in the State of Jammu
and Kashmir.—Any reference in this Act to any law which is not in force, or
any functionary not in existence, in the State of Jammu and Kashmir, shall, in
relation to that State, be construed as a reference to the corresponding law
in force, or to the corresponding functionary in existence, in that State.]"
4. Presumption as to poisonous substances.—Any substance specified as poisonous by rule made under Chapter III or Chapter IV 1[or Chapter IVA] shall be deemed to be a poisonous substance for the purpose of Chapter III or Chapter IV 1[or Chapter IVA], as the case may be. —Any substance specified as poisonous by rule made under Chapter III or Chapter IV 1[or Chapter IVA] shall be deemed to be a poisonous substance for the purpose of Chapter III or Chapter IV 1[or Chapter IVA], as the case may be."
5. The Drugs Technical Advisory Board.—
(1) The Central Government shall, as soon as may be, constitute a Board (to be
called the Drugs Technical Advisory Board) to advise the Central Government
and the State Governments on technical matters arising out of the
administration of this Act and to carry out the other functions assigned to it
by this Act. 1[(2) The Board shall consist of the following members, namely:—
(i) the Director General of Health Services, ex officio, who shall be
Chairman;
(ii) the Drugs Controller, India, ex officio;
(iii) the Director of the Central Drugs Laboratory, Calcutta, ex officio;
(iv) the Director of the Central Research Institute, Kasauli, ex officio;
(v) the Director of the Indian Veterinary Research Institute, Izatnagar, ex
officio;
(vi) the President of the Medical Council of India, ex officio;
(vii) the President of the Pharmacy Council of India, ex officio;
(viii) the Director of the Central Drug Research Institute, Lucknow, ex
officio;
(ix) two persons to be nominated by the Central Government from among persons
who are in charge of drugs control in the States;
(x) one person, to be elected by the Executive Committee of the Pharmacy
Council of India, from among teachers in pharmacy or pharmaceutical chemistry
or pharmacognosy on the staff of an Indian University or a college affiliated
thereto;
(xi) one person, to be elected by the Executive Committee of the Medical
Council of India, from among teachers in medicine or therapeutics on the staff
of an Indian University or a college affiliated thereto;
(xii) one person to be nominated by the Central Government from the
pharmaceutical industry;
(xiii) one pharmacologist to be elected by the Governing Body of the Indian
Council of Medical Research;
(xiv) one person to be elected by the Central Council of the Indian Medical
Association;
(xv) one person to be elected by the Council of the Indian Pharmaceutical
Association;
(xvi) two persons holding the appointment of Government Analyst under this
Act, to be nominated by the Central Government.]
(3) The nominated and elected members of the Board shall hold office for three
years, but shall be eligible for re-nomination and re-election: 29 [Provided
that the person nominated or elected, as the case may be, under clause (ix) or
clause (x) or clause (xi) or clause (xvi) of sub-section (2) shall hold office
for so long as he holds the appointment of the office by virtue of which he
was nominated or elected to the Board.]
(4) The Board may, subject to the previous approval of the Central Government,
make bye-laws fixing a quorum and regulating its own procedure and the conduct
of all business to be transacted by it.
(5) The Board may constitute sub-committees and may appoint to such sub-
committees for such periods, not exceeding three years, as it may decide, or
temporarily for the consideration of particular matters, persons who are not
members of the Board.
(6) The functions of the Board may be exercised notwithstanding any vacancy
therein.
(7) The Central Government shall appoint a person to be Secretary of the Board
and shall provide the Board with such clerical and other staff as the Central
Government considers necessary.
6. The Central Drugs Laboratory.—
(1) The Central Government shall, as soon as may be, establish a Central Drugs
Laboratory under the control of a Director to be appointed by the Central
Government, to carry out the functions entrusted to it by this Act or any
rules made under this Chapter: Provided that, if the Central Government so
prescribes, the functions of the Central Drugs Laboratory in respect of any
drug or class of drugs 1[or cosmetic or class of cosmetics] shall be carried
out at the Central Research Institute, Kasauli, or at any other prescribed
Laboratory and the functions of the Director of the Central Drugs Laboratory
in respect of such drug or class of drugs 1[or such cosmetic or class of
cosmetics] shall be exercised by the Director of that Institute or of that
other Laboratory, as the case may be.
(2) The Central Government may, after consultation with the Board, make rules
prescribing—
(a) the functions of the Central Drugs Laboratory; 31 [***]
(d) the procedure for the submission of the said Laboratory 3[under Chapter IV
or Chapter IVA] of samples of drugs 31 [or cosmetics] for analysis or test,
the forms of the Laboratory’s reports thereon and the fees payable in respect
of such reports;
(e) such other matters as may be necessary or expedient to enable the said
Laboratory to carry out its functions;
(f) the matters necessary to be prescribed for the purposes of the proviso to
sub-section (1).
7. The Drugs Consultative Committee.—
(1) The Central Government may constitute an advisory committee to be called
“the Drugs Consultative Committee” to advise the Central Government, the State
Governments and the Drugs Technical Advisory Board on any matter tending to
secure uniformity throughout 1[India] in the administration of this Act.
(2) The Drugs Consultative Committee shall consist of two representatives of
the Central Government to be nominated by that Government and one
representative of each State Government to be nominated by the State
Government concerned.
(3) The Drugs Consultative Committee shall meet when required to do so by the
Central Government and shall have power to regulate its own procedure.
1[7A. Sections 5 and 7 not to apply to Ayurvedic, Siddha or Unani
drugs.—Nothing contained in sections 5 and 7 shall apply to 2[Ayurvedic,
Siddha or Unani] drugs.]
8. Standards of quality.—1[
(1) For the purposes of this Chapter, the expression “standard quality” means—
(a) in relation to a drug, that the drug complies with the standard set out in
2[the Second Schedule], and
(b) in relation to a cosmetic, that the cosmetic complies with such standard
as may be prescribed.]
(2) The Central Government, after consultation with the Board and after giving
by notification in the Official Gazette not less than three months’ notice of
its intention so to do, may by a like notification add to or otherwise amend
2[the Second Schedule], for the purposes of this Chapter, and thereupon 2[the
Second Schedule] shall be deemed to be amended accordingly.
1[9. Misbranded drugs.—For the purposes of this Chapter, a drug shall be
deemed to be misbranded,—
(a) if it is so coloured, coated, powdered or polished that damage is
concealed or if it is made to appear of better or greater therapeutic value
than it really is; or
(b) if it is not labelled in the prescribed manner; or
(c) if its label or container or anything accompanying the drug bears any
statement, design or device which makes any false claim for the drug or which
is false or misleading in any particular.]
1[9A. Adulterated drugs.—For the purposes of this Chapter, a drug shall be
deemed to be adulterated,—
(a) if it consists, in whole or in part, of any filthy, putrid or decomposed
substance; or
(b) if it has been prepared, packed or stored under insanitary conditions
whereby it may have been contaminated with filth or whereby it may have been
rendered injurious to health; or
(c) if its container is composed in whole or in part, of any poisonous or
deleterious substance which may render the contents injurious to health; or
(d) if it bears or contains, for purposes of colouring only, a colour other
than one which is prescribed; or
(e) if it contains any harmful or toxic substance which may render it
injurious to health; or
(f) if any substance has been mixed therewith so as to reduce its quality or
strength.]
40 [9B. Spurious drugs.—For the purposes of this Chapter, a drug shall be
deemed to be spurious,—
(a) if it is imported under a name which belongs to another drug; or
(b) if it is an imitation of, or is a substitute for, another drug or
resembles another drug in a manner likely to deceive or bears upon it or upon
its label or container the name of another drug unless it is plainly and
conspicuously marked so as to reveal its true character and its lack of
identity with such other drug; or
(c) if the label or container bears the name of an individual or company
purporting to be the manufacturer of the drug, which individual or company is
fictitious or does not exist; or
(d) if it has been substituted wholly or in part by another drug or substance;
or
(e) if it purports to be the product of a manufacturer of whom it is not truly
a product.]
1[9C. Misbranded cosmetics.—For the purposes of this Chapter, a cosmetic shall
be deemed to be misbranded—
(a) if it contains a colour which is not prescribed; or
(b) if it is not labelled in the prescribed manner; or
(c) if the label or container or anything accompanying the cosmetic bears any
statement which is false or misleading in any particular.]
1[9D. Spurious cosmetics.—For the purposes of this Chapter, a cosmetic shall
be deemed to be spurious,—
(a) if it is imported under a name which belongs to another cosmetic; or
(b) if it is an imitation of, or is a substitute for, another cosmetic or
resembles another cosmetic in a manner likely to deceive or bears upon it or
upon its label or container the name of another cosmetic, unless it is plainly
and conspicuously marked so as to reveal its true character and its lack of
identity with such other cosmetic; or
(c) if the label or container bears the name of an individual or a company
purporting to be the manufacturer of the cosmetic which individual or company
is fictitious or does not exist; or
(d) if it purports to be the product of a manufacturer of whom it is not truly
a product.]
10. Prohibition of import of certain drugs or cosmetics.—From such date1 as may be fixed by the Central Government by notification in the Official Gazette in this behalf, no person shall import—
(a) any drug 2[or cosmetic] which is not of standard quality; 3[(b) any
misbranded drug 4[or misbranded or spurious cosmetic];] 5[(bb) any
6[adulterated or spurious] drug;]
(c) any drug 2[or cosmetic] for the import of which a licence is prescribed,
otherwise than under, and in accordance with, such licence; 7[(d) any patent
or proprietary medicine, unless there is displayed in the prescribed manner on
the label or container thereof 8[the true formula or list of active
ingredients contained in it together with the quantities thereof];]
(e) any drug which by means of any statement, design or device accompanying it
or by any other means, purports or claims to cure or mitigate any such disease
or ailment, or to have any such other effect, as may be prescribed; 9[(ee) any
cosmetic containing any ingredient which may render it unsafe or harmful or
use under the directions indicated or recommended;]
(f) any drug 1[or cosmetic] the import of which is prohibited by rule made
under this Chapter: Provided that nothing in this section shall apply to the
import, subject to prescribed conditions, of small quantities of any drug for
the purpose of examination, test or analysis or for personal use: Provided
further that the Central Government may, after consultation with the Board, by
notification in the Official Gazette, permit, subject to any conditions
specified in the notification, the import of any drug or class of drugs not
being of standard quality. 10[***]
1[10A. Power of Central Government to prohibit import of drugs and cosmetics
in public interest.—Without prejudice to any other provision contained in this
Chapter, if the Central Government is satisfied that the use of any drug or
cosmetic is likely to involve any risk to human beings or animals or that any
drug does not have the therapeutic value claimed for it or contains
ingredients and in such quantity for which there is no therapeutic
justification and that in the public interest it is necessary or expedient so
to do then, that Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette,
prohibit the import of such drug or cosmetic.]
11. Application of law relating to sea customs and powers of Customs Officers.—
(1) The law for the time being in force relating to sea customs and to goods,
the import of which is prohibited by section 18 of the Sea Customs Act, 1878
(8 of 1878)1 shall, subject to the provisions of section 13 of this Act, apply
in respect of drugs 2[and cosmetics] the import of which is prohibited under
this Chapter, and officers of Customs and officers empowered under that Act to
perform the duties imposed thereby on a 3[Commissioner of Customs] and other
officers of Customs, shall have the same powers in respect of such drugs 4[and
cosmetics] as they have for the time being in respect of such goods as
aforesaid. 5[(2) Without prejudice to the provisions of sub-section (1), the
6[Commissioner of Customs] or any officer of the Government authorised by the
Central Government in this behalf, may detain any imported package which he
suspects to contain any drug 7[or cosmetic] the import of which is prohibited
under this Chapter and shall forthwith report such detention to the Drugs
Controller, India, and if necessary, forward the package or sample of any
suspected drug 7[or cosmetic] found therein to the Central Drugs Laboratory.]
12. Power of Central Government to make rules.—
(1) The Central Government may, 1[after consultation with or on the
recommendation of the Board] and after previous publication by notification in
the Official Gazette, make rules for the purpose of giving effect to the
provisions of this Chapter: —(1) The Central Government may, 4[after
consultation with or on the recommendation of the Board] and after previous
publication by notification in the Official Gazette, make rules for the
purpose of giving effect to the provisions of this Chapter\:" 2[Provided that
consultation with the Board may be dispensed with if the Central Government is
of opinion that circumstances have arisen which render it necessary to make
rules without such consultation, but in such a case the Board shall be
consulted within six months of the making of the rules and the Central
Government shall take into consideration any suggestions which the Board may
make in relation to the amendment of the said rules.] 5[Provided that
consultation with the Board may be dispensed with if the Central Government is
of opinion that circumstances have arisen which render it necessary to make
rules without such consultation, but in such a case the Board shall be
consulted within six months of the making of the rules and the Central
Government shall take into consideration any suggestions which the Board may
make in relation to the amendment of the said rules.]"
(2) Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power, such rules
may—
(a) specify the drugs or classes of drugs 3[or cosmetics or classes of
cosmetics] for the import of which a licence is required, 4[and prescribe the
form and conditions of such licences, the authority empowered to issue the
same, the fees payable therefor and provide for the cancellation, or
suspension of such licence in any case where any provision of this Chapter or
the rules made thereunder is contravened or any of the conditions subject to
which the licence is issued is not complied with];
(b) prescribe the methods of test or analysis to be employed in determining
whether a drug 3[or cosmetic] is of standard quality;
(c) prescribe, in respect of biological and organometallic compounds, the
units or methods of standardisation; 5[(cc) prescribe under clause (d) of
6[section 9A] the colour or colours which a drug may bear or contain for
purposes of colouring;] 1[(cc) prescribe under clause (d) of 2[section 9A] the
colour or colours which a drug may bear or contain for purposes of
colouring;]"
(d) specify the diseases or ailments which an imported drug may not purport or
claim 7[to prevent, cure or mitigate] and such other effects which such drug
may not purport or claim to have;
(e) prescribe the conditions subject to which small quantities of drugs, the
import of which is otherwise prohibited under this Chapter, may be imported
for the purpose of examination, test or analysis or for personal use;
(f) prescribe the places at which drugs 8[or cosmetics] may be imported, and
prohibit their import at any other place;
(g) require the date of manufacture and the date of expiry of potency to be
clearly and truly stated on the label or container of any specified imported
drug or class of such drug, and prohibit the import of the said drug or class
of drug after the expiry of a specified period from the date of manufacture;
(h) regulate the submission by importers, and the securing, of samples of
drugs 8[or cosmetics] for examination, test or analysis by the Central Drugs
Laboratory, and prescribe the fees, if any, payable for such examination, test
or analysis;
(i) prescribe the evidence to be supplied, whether by accompanying documents
or otherwise, of the quality of drugs 8[or cosmetics] sought to be imported,
the procedure of officers of Customs in dealing with such evidence, and the
manner of storage at places of import of drugs 8[or cosmetics] detained
pending admission;
(j) provide for the exemption, conditionally or otherwise, from all or any of
the provisions of this Chapter and the rules made thereunder of drugs 8[or
cosmetics] imported for the purpose only of transport through, and export
from, 9[India];
(k) prescribe the conditions to be observed in the packing in bottles,
packages or other containers, of imported drugs 8[or cosmetics] 10[including
the use of packing material which comes into direct contact with the drugs];
(l) regulate the mode of labelling drugs 8[or cosmetics] imported for sale in
packages, and prescribe the matters which shall or shall not be included in
such labels;
(m) prescribe the maximum proportion of any poisonous substance which may be
added to or contained in any imported drug, prohibit the import of any drug in
which that proportion is exceeded, and specify substances which shall be
deemed to be poisonous for the purposes of this Chapter and the rules made
thereunder;
(n) require that the accepted scientific name of any specified drug shall be
displayed in the prescribed manner on the label or wrapper of any imported,
patent or proprietary medicine containing such drug;
(o) provide for the exemption, conditionally or otherwise, from all or any of
the provisions of this Chapter or the rules made thereunder of any specified
drug or class of drugs 11[or cosmetics or class of cosmetics].
1[13. Offences.—
(1) Whoever himself or by any other person on his behalf imports,— 2[13.
Offences.—(1) Whoever himself or by any other person on his behalf imports,—"
(a) any drug deemed to be adulterated under section 9A or deemed to be a
spurious drug under section 9B or any spurious cosmetic referred to in section
9D or any cosmetic of the nature referred to in clause (ee) of section 10
shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to three
years and a fine which may extend to five thousand rupees;
(b) any drug or cosmetic other than a drug or cosmetic referred to in clause
(a), the import of which is prohibited under section 10, or any rule made
under this Chapter, shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may
extend to six months, or with fine which may extend to five hundred rupees, or
with both;
(c) any drug or cosmetic in contravention of the provisions of any
notification issued under section 10A, shall be punishable with imprisonment
for a term which may extend to three years, or with fine which may extend to
five thousand rupees, or with both.
(2) Whoever having been convicted of an offence—
(a) under clause (a) or clause (c) of sub-section (1), is again convicted of
an offence under that clause, shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term
which may extend to five years, or with fine which may extend to ten thousand
rupees, or with both;
(b) under clause (b) of sub-section (1), is again convicted of an offence
under that clause, shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may
extend to one year, or with fine which may extend to one thousand rupees, or
with both.
(3) The punishment provided by this section shall be in addition to any
penalty to which the offender may be liable under the provisions of section
11.]
14. Confiscation.—Where any offence punishable under section 13 has been committed, the consignment of the drugs 1[or cosmetics] in respect of which the offence has been committed shall be liable to confiscation.
15. Jurisdiction.—No Court inferior to that 1[of a Metropolitan Magistrate or of a Judicial Magistrate of the first class] shall try an offence punishable under section 13.
16. Standards of quality.— 1[
(1) For the purposes of this Chapter, the expression “standard quality” means—
(a) in relation to a drug, that the drug complies with the standard set out in
2[the Second Schedule], and
(b) in relation to a cosmetic, that the cosmetic complies with such standard
as may be prescribed.]
(2) The 3[Central Government], after consultation with the Board and after
giving by notification in the Official Gazette not less than three months’
notice of its intention so to do, may by a like notification add to or
otherwise amend 2[the Second Schedule] for the purposes of this Chapter, and
thereupon 2[the Second Schedule] shall be deemed to be amended accordingly.
1[17. Misbranded drugs.—For the purposes of this Chapter, a drug shall be
deemed to be misbranded,—
(a) if it is so coloured, coated, powdered or polished that damage is
concealed or if it is made to appear of better or greater therapeutic value
than it really is; or
(b) if it is not labelled in the prescribed manner; or
(c) if its label or container or anything accompanying the drug bears any
statement, design or device which makes any false claim for the drug or which
is false or misleading in any particular.]
1[17A. Adulterated drugs.—For the purposes of this Chapter, a drug shall be
deemed to be adulterated,—
(a) if it consists in whole or in part, of any filthy, putrid or decomposed
substance; or
(b) if it has been prepared, packed or stored under insanitary conditions
whereby it may have been contaminated with filth or whereby it may have been
rendered injurious to health; or
(c) if its container is composed, in whole or in part, of any poisonous or
deleterious substance which may render the contents injurious to health; or
(d) if it bears or contains, for purposes of colouring only, a colour other
than one which is prescribed; or
(e) if it contains any harmful or toxic substance which may render it
injurious to health; or
(f) if any substance has been mixed therewith so as to reduce its quality or
strength.]
1[17B. Spurious drugs.—For the purposes of this Chapter, a drug shall be
deemed to be spurious,—
(a) if it is manufactured under a name which belongs to another drug; or
(b) if it is an imitation of, or is a substitute for, another drug or
resembles another drug in a manner likely to deceive or bears upon it or upon
its label or container the name of another drug unless it is plainly and
conspicuously marked so as to reveal its true character and its lack of
identity with such other drug; or
(c) if the label or container bears the name of an individual or company
purporting to be the manufacturer of the drug, which individual or company is
fictitious or does not exist; or
(d) if it has been substituted wholly or in part by another drug or substance;
or
(e) if it purports to be the product of a manufacturer of whom it is not truly
a product.]
1[17C. Misbranded cosmetics.—For the purposes of this Chapter, a cosmetic
shall be deemed to be misbranded,— —For the purposes of this Chapter, a
cosmetic shall be deemed to be misbranded,—"
(a) if it contains a colour which is not prescribed; or
(b) if it is not labelled in the prescribed manner; or
(c) if the label or container or anything accompanying the cosmetic bears any
statement which is false or misleading in any particular.]
1[17D. Spurious cosmetics.—For the purposes of this Chapter, a cosmetic shall
be deemed to be spurious,— —For the purposes of this Chapter, a cosmetic shall
be deemed to be spurious,—"
(a) if it is manufactured under a name which belongs to another cosmetic; or
(b) if it is an imitation of, or a substitute for, another cosmetic or
resembles another cosmetic in a manner likely to deceive or bears upon it or
upon its label or container the name of another cosmetic unless it is plainly
and conspicuously marked so as to reveal its true character and its lack of
identity with such other cosmetic; or
(c) if the label or container bears the name of an individual or a company
purporting to be the manufacturer of the cosmetic which individual or company
is fictitious or does not exist; or
(d) if it purports to be the product of a manufacturer of whom it is not truly
a product.]
73 [ 17E Adulterated cosmetics. —For the purposes of this Chapter, a cosmetic
shall be deemed to be adulterated,—
(a) if it consists in whole or in part, of any filthy, putrid or decomposed
substance; or
(b) if it has been prepared, packed or stored under insanitary conditions
whereby it may have been contaminated with filth or whereby it may have been
rendered injurious to health; or
(c) if its container is composed, in whole or in part, of any poisonous or
deleterious substance which may render the contents injurious to health; or
(d) if it bears or contains, for purposes of colouring only, a colour other
than one which is prescribed; or
(e) if it contains any harmful or toxic substance which may render it
injurious to health; or
(f) if any substance has been mixed therewith so as to reduce its quality or
strength.]
18 Prohibition of manufacture and sale of certain drugs and cosmetics. —From
such date 74 as may be fixed by the State Government by notification in the
Official Gazette in this behalf, no person shall himself or by any other
person on his behalf—
(a) 75 [manufacture for sale or for distribution, or sell, or stock or exhibit
or offer for sale,] or distribute—
76 [(i) any drug which is not of a standard quality, or is misbranded,
adulterated or spurious;
77 [(ii) any cosmetic which is not of a standard quality, or is misbranded,
adulterated or spurious;]]
78 [(iii) any patent or proprietary medicine, unless there is displayed in the
prescribed manner on the label or container thereof 79 [the true formula or
list of active ingredients contained in it together with the quantities,
thereof];]
(iv) any drug which by means of any statement design or device accompanying it
or by any other means, purports or claims 80 [to prevent, cure or mitigate]
any such disease or ailment, or to have any such other effect as may be
prescribed;
81 [(v) any cosmetic containing any ingredient which may render it unsafe or
harmful for use under the directions indicated or recommended;
(vi) any drug or cosmetic in contravention of any of the provisions of this
Chapter or any rule made thereunder;]
(b) 82 [sell, or stock or exhibit or offer for sale,] or distribute any drug
83 [or cosmetic] which has been imported or manufactured in contravention of
any of the provisions of this Act or any rule made thereunder;
(c) 84 [manufacture for sale or for distribution, or sell, or stock or exhibit
or offer for sale,] or distribute any drug 83 [or cosmetic], except under, and
in accordance with the conditions of, a licence issued for such purpose under
this Chapter: Provided that nothing in this section shall apply to the
manufacture, subject to prescribed conditions, of small quantities of any drug
for the purpose of examination, test or analysis: Provided further that the 85
[Central Government] may, after consultation with the Board, by notification
in the Official Gazette, permit, subject to any conditions specified in the
notification, the 86 [manufacture for sale or for distribution, sale, stocking
or exhibiting or offering for sale] or distribution of any drug or class of
drugs not being of standard quality. 87 [***]
“(ii) any cosmetic which is not of a standard quality or is misbranded or
spurious;”.
1[18A. Disclosure of the name of the manufacturer, etc.—Every person, not
being the manufacturer of a drug or cosmetic or his agent for the distribution
thereof, shall, if so required, disclose to the Inspector the name, address
and other particulars of the person from whom he acquired the drug or
cosmetic.]
1[18B. Maintenance of records and furnishing of information.—Every person
holding a licence under clause (c) of section 18 shall keep and maintain such
records, registers and other documents as may be prescribed and shall furnish
to any officer or authority exercising any power or discharging any function
under this Act such information as is required by such officer or authority
for carrying out the purposes of this Act.]
19. Pleas.—
(1) Save as hereinafter provided in this section, it shall be no defence in a
prosecution under this Chapter to prove merely that the accused was ignorant
of the nature, substance or quality of the drug 1[or cosmetic] in respect of
which the offence has been committed or of the circumstances of its
manufacture or import, or that a purchaser, having bought only for the purpose
of test or analysis, has not been prejudiced by the sale.
(2) 2[For the purposes of section 18 a drug shall not be deemed to be
misbranded or 3[adulterated or spurious] or to be below standard quality nor
shall a cosmetic be deemed to be misbranded or to be below standard quality]
only by reason of the fact that—
(a) there has been added thereto some innocuous substance or ingredient
because the same is required for the manufacture or preparation of the drug
4[or cosmetic] as an article of commerce in a state fit for carriage or
consumption, and not to increase the bulk, weight or measure of the drug 4[or
cosmetic] or to conceal its inferior quality or other defects; or 5[***]
(b) in the process of manufacture, preparation or conveyance some extraneous
substance has unavoidably become intermixed with it: provided that this clause
shall not apply in relation to any sale or distribution of the drug 4[or
cosmetic] occurring after the vendor or distributor became aware of such
intermixture. 6[(3) A person, not being the manufacturer of a drug or cosmetic
or his agent for the distribution thereof, shall not be liable for a
contravention of section 18 if he proves— 5[(3) A person, not being the
manufacturer of a drug or cosmetic or his agent for the distribution thereof,
shall not be liable for a contravention of section 18 if he proves—"
(a) that he acquired the drug or cosmetic from a duly licensed manufacturer,
distributor or dealer thereof;
(b) that he did not know and could not, with reasonable diligence, have
ascertained that the drug or cosmetic in any way contravened the provisions of
that section; and
(c) that the drug or cosmetic, while in his possession was properly stored and
remained in the same state as when he acquired it.]
1[20. Government Analysts.—
(1) The State Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, appoint
such persons as it thinks fit, having the prescribed qualifications, to be
Government Analysts for such areas in the State and in respect of such drugs
or 2[classes of drugs or such cosmetics or classes of cosmetics] as may be
specified in the notifications.
(2) The Central Government may also, by notification in the Official Gazette,
appoint such persons as it thinks fit, having the prescribed qualifications,
to be Government Analysts in respect of such drugs or 2[classes of drugs or
such cosmetics or classes of cosmetics] as may be specified in the
notification.
(3) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1) or sub-section (2),
neither the Central Government nor a State Government shall appoint as a
Government Analyst any official not serving under it without the previous
consent of the Government under which he is serving.] 3[(4) No person who has
any financial interest in the import, manufacture or sale of drugs or
cosmetics shall be appointed to be a Government Analyst under sub-section (1)
or sub-section (2) of this section.]
1[21. Inspectors.—
(1) The Central Government or a State Government may by notification in the
Official Gazette, appoint such persons as it thinks fit, having the prescribed
qualifications, to be Inspectors for such areas as may be assigned to them by
the Central Government or the State Government, as the case may be.
(2) The powers which may be exercised by an Inspector and the duties which may
be performed by him, the drugs or 2[classes of drugs or cosmetics or classes
of cosmetics] in relation to which and the conditions, limitations or
restrictions subject to which, such powers and duties may be exercised or
performed shall be such as may be prescribed.
(3) No person who has any financial interest 3[in the import, manufacture or
sale of drugs or cosmetics] shall be appointed to be an Inspector under this
section.
(4) Every Inspector shall be deemed to be a public servant within the meaning
of section 21 of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860), and shall be officially
subordinate to such authority 4[, having the prescribed qualifications,] as
the Government appointing him may specify in this behalf.]
1[22. Powers of Inspectors.—
(1) Subject to the provisions of section 23 and of any rules made by the
Central Government in this behalf, an Inspector may, within the local limits
of the area for which he is appointed,— 7[22. Powers of Inspectors.—(1)
Subject to the provisions of section 23 and of any rules made by the Central
Government in this behalf, an Inspector may, within the local limits of the
area for which he is appointed,—" 2[(a) inspect,— 1[(a) inspect,—"
(i) any premises wherein any drug or cosmetic is being manufactured and the
means employed for standardising and testing the drug or cosmetic;
(ii) any premises wherein any drug or cosmetic is being sold, or stocked or
exhibited or offered for sale, or distributed;
(b) take samples of any drug or cosmetic,—
(i) which is being manufactured or being sold or is stocked or exhibited or
offered for sale, or is being distributed;
(ii) from any person who is in the course of conveying, delivering or
preparing to deliver such drug or cosmetic to a purchaser or a consignee;
(c) at all reasonable times, with such assistance, if any, as he considers
necessary,—
(i) search any person, who, he has reason to believe, has secreted about his
person, any drug or cosmetic in respect of which an offence under this Chapter
has been, or is being, committed; or
(ii) enter and search any place in which he has reason to believe that an
offence under this Chapter has been, or is being, committed; or
(iii) stop and search any vehicle, vessel or other conveyance which, he has
reason to believe, is being used for carrying any drug or cosmetic in respect
of which an offence under this Chapter has been, or is being, committed, and
order in writing the person in possession of the drug or cosmetic in respect
of which the offence has been, or is being, committed, not to dispose of any
stock of such drug or cosmetic for a specified period not exceeding twenty
days, or, unless the alleged offence is such that the defect may be removed by
the possessor of the drug or cosmetic, seize the stock of such drug or
cosmetic and any substance or article by means of which the offence has been,
or is being, committed or which may be employed for the commission of such
offence;] 3[(cc) examine any record, register, document or any other material
object found 4[with any person, or in any place, vehicle, vessel or other
conveyance referred to in clause (c)], and seize the same if he has reason to
believe that it may furnish evidence of the commission of an offence
punishable under this Act or the Rules made thereunder;] 2[(cc) examine any
record, register, document or any other material object found 3[with any
person, or in any place, vehicle, vessel or other conveyance referred to in
clause (c)], and seize the same if he has reason to believe that it may
furnish evidence of the commission of an offence punishable under this Act or
the Rules made thereunder;]" 5[(cca) require any person to produce any record,
register, or other document relating to the manufacture for sale or for
distribution, stocking, exhibition for sale, offer for sale or distribution of
any drug or cosmetic in respect of which he has reason to believe that an
offence under this Chapter has been, or is being, committed;] 4[(cca) require
any person to produce any record, register, or other document relating to the
manufacture for sale or for distribution, stocking, exhibition for sale, offer
for sale or distribution of any drug or cosmetic in respect of which he has
reason to believe that an offence under this Chapter has been, or is being,
committed;]"
(d) exercise such other powers as may be necessary for carrying out the
purposes of this Chapter or any rules made thereunder.
(2) The provisions of 6[the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974)]
shall, so far as may be, apply to any search or seizure under this Chapter as
they apply to any search or seizure made under the authority of a warrant
issued under 7[section 94] of the said Code. 8[(2A) Every record, register or
other document seized under clause (cc) or produced under clause (cca) shall
be returned to the person, from whom they were seized or who produce the same,
within a period of twenty days of the date of such seizure or production, as
the case may be, after copies thereof or extracts therefrom certified by that
person, in such manner as may be prescribed, have been taken.] 3[(2A) Every
record, register or other document seized under clause (cc) or produced under
clause (cca) shall be returned to the person, from whom they were seized or
who produce the same, within a period of twenty days of the date of such
seizure or production, as the case may be, after copies thereof or extracts
therefrom certified by that person, in such manner as may be prescribed, have
been taken.]"
(3) If any person wilfully obstructs an Inspector in the exercise of the
powers conferred upon him by or under this Chapter 8[or refuses to produce any
record, register or other document when so required under clause (cca) of sub-
section (1),] he shall be punishable with imprisonment which may extend to
three years, or with fine, or with both.]
23. Procedure of Inspectors.—
(1) Where an Inspector takes any sample of a drug 1[or cosmetic] under this
Chapter, he shall tender the fair price thereof and may require a written
acknowledgement therefor.
(2) Where the price tendered under sub-section (1) is refused or where the
Inspector seizes the stock of any drug 1[or cosmetic] under clause (c) of
section 22, he shall tender a receipt therefor in the prescribed form.
(3) Where an Inspector takes a sample of a drug 1[or cosmetic] for the purpose
of test or analysis, he shall intimate such purpose in writing in the
prescribed form to the person from whom he takes it and, in the presence of
such person unless he wilfully absents himself, shall divide the sample into
four portions and effectively seal and suitably mark the same and permit such
person to add his own seal and mark to all or any of the portions so sealed
and marked: Provided that where the sample is taken from premises whereon the
drug 1[or cosmetic] is being manufactured, it shall be necessary to divide the
sample into three portions only: Provided further that where the drug 1[or
cosmetic] is made up in containers of small volume, instead of dividing a
sample as aforesaid, the Inspector may, and if the drug 1[or cosmetic] be such
that it is likely to deteriorate or be otherwise damaged by exposure shall,
take three or four, as the case may be, of the said containers after suitably
marking the same and, where necessary, sealing them.
(4) The Inspector shall restore one portion of a sample so divided or one
container, as the case may be, to the person from whom he takes it, and shall
retain the remainder and dispose of the same as follows:—
(i) one portion or container he shall forthwith send to the Government Analyst
for test or analysis;
(ii) the second he shall produce to the Court before which proceedings, if
any, are instituted in respect of the drug 1[or cosmetic]; and 2[(iii) the
third, where taken, he shall send to the person, if any, whose name, address
and other particulars have been disclosed under section 18A.]
(5) Where an Inspector takes any action under clause (c) of section 22,—
(a) he shall use all despatch in ascertaining whether or not the drug 1[or
cosmetic] contravenes any of the provisions of section 18 and, if it is
ascertained that the drug 1[or cosmetic] does not so contravene forthwith
revoke the order passed under the said clause or, as the case may be, take
such action as may be necessary for the return of the stock seized;
(b) if he seizes the stock of the drug 1[or cosmetic], he shall as soon as may
be, inform 3[a Judicial Magistrate] and take his orders as to the custody
thereof;
(c) without prejudice to the institution of any prosecution, if the alleged
contravention be such that the defect may be remedied by the possessor of the
drug 1[or cosmetic], he shall, on being satisfied that the defect has been so
remedied, forthwith revoke his order under the said clause. 4[(6) Where an
Inspector seizes any record, register, document or any other material object
under clause (cc) of sub-section (1) of section 22, he shall, as soon as may
be, inform 3[a Judicial Magistrate] and take his orders as to the custody
thereof.] 4[(6) Where an Inspector seizes any record, register, document or
any other material object under clause (cc) of sub-section (1) of section 22,
he shall, as soon as may be, inform 3[a Judicial Magistrate] and take his
orders as to the custody thereof.]"
24. Persons bound to disclose place where drugs or cosmetics are manufactured or kept.—Every person for the time being in charge of any premises whereon any drug 1[or cosmetic] is being manufactured or is kept for sale or distribution shall, on being required by any Inspector so to do, be legally bound to disclose to the Inspector the place where the drug 1[or cosmetic] is being manufactured or is kept, as the case may be.
25 Reports of Government Analysts. —
(1) The Government Analyst to whom a sample of any drug 116 [or cosmetic] has
been submitted for test or analysis under sub-section (4) of section 23, shall
deliver to the Inspector submitting it a signed report in triplicate in the
prescribed form.
(2) The Inspector on receipt thereof shall deliver one copy of the report to
the person from whom the sample was taken 117 [and another copy to the person,
if any, whose name, address and other particulars have been disclosed under
section 18A], and shall retain the third copy for use in any prosecution in
respect of the sample.
(3) Any document purporting to be a report signed by a Government Analyst
under this Chapter shall be evidence of the facts stated therein, and such
evidence shall be conclusive unless the person from whom the sample was taken
118 [or the person whose name, address and other particulars have been
disclosed under section 18A] has, within twenty-eight days of the receipt of a
copy of the report, notified in writing the Inspector or the Court before
which any proceedings in respect of the sample are pending that he intends to
adduce evidence in controversion of the report.
(4) Unless the sample has already been tested or analysed in the Central Drugs
Laboratory, where a person has under sub-section (3) notified his intention of
adducing evidence in controversion of a Government Analyst's report, the Court
may, of its own motion or in its discretion at the request either of the
complainant or the accused: cause the sample of the drug 116 [or cosmetic]
produced before the Magistrate under sub-section (4) of section 23 to be sent
for test or analysis to the said Laboratory, which shall make the test or
analysis and report in writing signed by or under the authority of, the
Director of the Central Drugs Laboratory the result thereof, and such report
shall be conclusive evidence of the facts stated therein.
(5) The cost of a test or analysis made by the Central Drugs Laboratory under
sub-section (4) shall be paid by the complainant or accused as the Court shall
direct.
26. Purchaser of drug or cosmetic enabled to obtain test or analysis.—Any person 1[or any recognised consumer association, whether such person is a member of that association or not] shall, on application in the prescribed manner and on payment of the prescribed fee, be entitled to submit for test or analysis to a Government Analyst any drug 2[or cosmetic] 3[purchased by him or it] and to receive a report of such test or analysis signed by the Government Analyst. 4[Explanation.—For the purposes of this section and section 32, “recognised consumer association” means a voluntary consumer association registered under the Companies Act, 1956 or any other law for the time being in force.]
123 [ 26A Powers of Central Government to prohibit manufacture, etc., of drug
and cosmetic in public interest. —Without prejudice to any other provision
contained in this Chapter, if the Central Government is satisfied, that the
use of any drug or cosmetic is likely to involve any risk to human beings or
animals or that any drug does not have the therapeutic value claimed or
purported to be claimed for it or contains ingredients and in such quantity
for which there is no therapeutic justification and that in the public
interest it is necessary or expedient so to do, then, that Government may, by
notification in the Official Gazette, 124 [regulate, restrict or prohibit] the
manufacture, sale or distribution of such drug or cosmetic.]
125 [ 26B Power of Central Government to regulate or restrict, manufacture,
etc., of drug in public interest. —Without prejudice to any other provision
contained in this Chapter, if the Central Government is satisfied that a drug
is essential to meet the requirements of an emergency arising due to epidemic
or natural calamities and that in the public interest, it is necessary or
expedient so to do, then, that Government may, by notification in the Official
Gazette, regulate or restrict the manufacture, sale or distribution of such
drug.]
135 [ 27A Penalty for manufacture, sale, etc., of cosmetics in contravention
of this Chapter. —Whoever himself or by any other person on his behalf
manufactures for sale or for distribution, or sells, or stocks or exhibits or
offers for sale—
136 [(i) any cosmetic deemed to be spurious under section 17D or adulterated
under section 17E shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may
extend to three years and with fine which shall not be less than fifty
thousand rupees or three times to value of the cosmetics confiscated,
whichever is more;
(ii) any cosmetic other than a cosmetic referred to in clause (i) in
contravention of any provisions of this Chapter or any rule made thereunder
shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to one year
or with fine which may extend to twenty thousand rupees, or with both.]
137 [ 28 Penalty for non-disclosure of the name of the manufacturer, etc.
—Whoever contravenes the provisions of section 18A 138 [or section 24] shall
be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to one year, or
139 [with fine which shall not be less than twenty thousand rupees or with
both.]
140 [ 28A Penalty for not keeping documents, etc., and for non-disclosure of
information. —Whoever without reasonable cause or excuse, contravenes the
provisions of section 18B shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term
which may extend to one year or 141 [with fine which shall not be less than
twenty thousand rupees or with both].]
1[28B. Penalty for manufacture, etc., of drugs or cosmetics in contravention
of section 26A.—Whoever himself or by any other person on his behalf
manufactures or sells or distributes any drug or cosmetic in contravention of
the provisions of any notification issued under section 26A, shall be
punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to three years and
shall also be liable to fine which may extend to five thousand rupees.]
29 Penalty for use of Government Analyst's report for advertising. —Whoever
uses any report of a test or analysis made by the Central Drugs Laboratory or
by a Government Analyst, or any extract from such report, for the purpose of
advertising any drug 143 [or cosmetic], shall be punishable with fine which
may extend to 144 [five thousand rupees].
145 [ 30 Penalty for subsequent offences. — 146 [
(1) Whoever having been convicted of an offence,—
(a) under clause (b) of section 27 is again convicted of an offence under that
clause, shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which shall 147 [not
be less than seven years but which may extend to ten years and with fine which
shall not be less than two lakh rupees]:
Provided that the Court may, for any adequate and special reasons to be
mentioned in the judgment, impose a sentence of imprisonment for a term of 148
[less than seven years and of fine of less than one lakh rupees];
(b) under clause (c) of section 27, is again convicted of an offence under
that clause shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which 149 [shall
not be less than ten years but which may extend to imprisonment for life and
with fine which shall not be less than three lakh rupees];
(c) under clause (d) of section 27, is again convicted of an offence under
that clause shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which shall not
be less than two years but which may extend to four years or with fine which
shall not be less than 150 [fifty thousand rupees], or with both.]
151 [(1A) Whoever, having been convicted of an offence under section 27A is
again convicted under that section, shall be punishable with imprisonment for
a term which may extend to two years, or with fine which may extend to 152
[two thousand rupees], or with both.]
(2) Whoever, having been convicted of an offence under 153 [***] section 29 is
again convicted of an offence under the same section, shall be punishable with
imprisonment which may extend to 154 [two years, or with fine which shall not
be less than ten thousand rupees or with both].
31. Confiscation.—1[
(1) ] Where any person has been convicted under this Chapter for contravening
any such provision of this Chapter or any rule made thereunder as may be
specified by rule made in this behalf, the stock of the drug 2[or cosmetic] in
respect of which the contravention has been made shall be liable to
confiscation 3[and if such contravention is in respect of— 4[(i) manufacture
of any drug deemed to be misbranded under section 17, adulterated under
section 17A or spurious under section 17B; or]
(ii) 5[manufacture for sale, or for distribution, sale, or stocking or
exhibiting or offering for sale,] or distribution of any drug without a valid
licence as required under clause (c) of section 18, any implements or
machinery used in such manufacture, sale or distribution and any receptacles,
packages or coverings in which such drug is contained and the animals,
vehicles, vessels or other conveyances used in carrying such drug shall also
be liable to confiscation]. 6[(2) Without prejudice to the provisions
contained in sub-section (1) where the Court is satisfied, on the application
of an Inspector or otherwise and after such inquiry as may be necessary that
the drug or cosmetic is not of standard quality 7[or is a 8[misbranded,
adulterated or spurious drug or misbranded or spurious cosmetic,]] such drug
or, as the case may be, such cosmetic shall be liable to confiscation.]
1[31A. Application of provisions to Government departments.—The provisions of
this Chapter except those contained in section 31 shall apply in relation to
the manufacture, sale or distribution of drugs by any department of Government
as they apply in relation to the manufacture, sale or distribution of drugs by
any other person.]
32 Cognizance of offences. — 164 [
(1) No prosecution under this Chapter shall be instituted except by—
(a) an Inspector; or
(b) any gazetted officer of the Central Government or a State Government
authorised in writing in this behalf by the Central Government or a State
Government by a general or special order made in this behalf by that
Government; or
(c) the person aggrieved; or
(d) a recognised consumer association whether such person is a member of that
association or not.
(2) Save as otherwise provided in this Act, no court inferior to that of a
Court of Session shall try an offence punishable under this Chapter.]
(3) Nothing contained in this Chapter shall be deemed to prevent any person
from being prosecuted under any other law for any act or omission which
constitutes an offence against this Chapter.
1[32A. Power of Court to implead the manufacturer, etc.—Where, at any time
during the trial of any offence under this Chapter alleged to have been
committed by any person, not being the manufacturer of a drug or cosmetic or
his agent for the distribution thereof the Court is satisfied, on the evidence
adduced before it, that such manufacturer or agent is also concerned in that
offence, then, the Court may, notwithstanding anything contained 2[in sub-
sections
(1) , (2) and (3) of section 319 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of
1974)], proceed against him as though a prosecution had been instituted
against him under section 32.
167 [ 32B Compounding of certain offences. —
(1) Notwithstanding anything contained in the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973
(2 of 1974), any offence punishable under clause (b) of sub-section (1) of
section 13, section 28 and section 28A of this Act (whether committed by a
company or any officer thereof), not being an offence punishable with
imprisonment only, or with imprisonment and also with fine, may, either before
or after the institution of any prosecution, be compounded by the Central
Government or by any State Government or any officer authorised in this behalf
by the Central Government or a State Government, on payment for credit to that
Government of such sum as that Government may, by rules made in this behalf,
specify: Provided that such sum shall not, in any case, exceed the maximum
amount of the fine which may be imposed under this Act for the offence so
compounded: Provided further that in cases of subsequent offences, the same
shall not be compoundable.
(2) When the accused has been committed for trial or when he has been
convicted and an appeal is pending, no composition for the offence shall be
allowed without the leave of the court to which he is committed or, as the
case may be, before which the appeal is to be heard.
(3) Where an offence is compounded under sub-section (1), no proceeding or
further proceeding, as the case may be, shall be taken against the offender in
respect of the offence so compounded and the offender, if in custody, shall be
released forthwith.]
33 Power of Central Government to make rules. — 168 [
(1) The Central Government may 169 [after consultation with, or on the
recommendation of, the Board] and after previous publication by notification
in the Official Gazette, make rules for the purposes of giving effect to the
provisions of this Chapter: Provided that consultation with the Board may be
dispensed with if the Central Government is of opinion that circumstances have
arisen which render it necessary to make rules without such consultation, but
in such a case the Board shall be consulted within six months of the making of
the rules and the Central Government shall take into consideration any
suggestions which the Board may make in relation to the amendment of the said
rules.]
(2) Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power, such rules
may—
(a) provide for the establishment of laboratories for testing and analysing
drugs 170 [or cosmetics];
(b) prescribe the qualifications and duties of Government Analysts and the
qualifications of Inspectors;
(c) prescribe the methods of test or analysis to be employed in determining
whether a drug 170 [or cosmetic] is of standard quality;
(d) prescribe, in respect of biological and organometallic compounds, the
units or methods of standardisation;
171 [(dd) prescribe under clause (d) of 172 [section 17A] the colour or
colours which a drug may bear or contain for purposes of colouring;]
173 [(dda) prescribe under clause (d) of section 17E the colour or colours
which a cosmetic may bear or contain for the purposes of colouring;]
(e) prescribe the forms of licences 174 [for the manufacture for sale or for
distribution], for the sale and for the distribution of drugs or any specified
drug or class of drugs 175 [or of cosmetics or any specified cosmetic or class
of cosmetics], the form of application for such licences, the conditions
subject to which such licences may be issued, the authority empowered to issue
the same 176 [the qualifications of such authority] and the fees payable
therefor; 176 [and provide for the cancellation or suspension of such licences
in any case where any provision of this Chapter or the rules made thereunder
is contravened or any of the conditions subject to which they are issued is
not complied with];
176 [(ee) prescribe the records, registers or other documents to be kept and
maintained under section 18B;]
176 [(eea) prescribe the fees for the inspection (for the purposes of grant or
renewal of licences) of premises, wherein any drug or cosmetic is being or is
proposed to be manufactured;]
176 [(eeb) prescribe the manner in which copies are to be certified under sub-
section (2A) of section 22;]
(f) specify the diseases or ailments which a drug may not purport or claim 177
[to prevent, cure or mitigate] and such other effects which a drug may not
purport or claim to have;
(g) prescribe the conditions subject to which small quantities of drugs may be
manufactured for the purpose of examination, test or analysis;
(h) require the date of manufacture and the date of expiry of potency to be
clearly and truly stated on the label or container of any specified drug or
class of drugs, and prohibit the sale, stocking or exhibition for sale, or
distribution of the said drug or class of drugs after the expiry of a
specified period from the date of manufacture or after the expiry of the date
of potency;
(i) prescribe the conditions to be observed in the packing in bottles,
packages, and other containers of drugs 175 [or cosmetics], 176 [including the
use of packing material which comes into direct contact with the drugs] and
prohibit the sale, stocking or exhibition for sale, or distribution of drugs
175 [or cosmetics] packed in contravention of such conditions;
(j) regulate the mode of labelling packed drugs 175 [or cosmetics], and
prescribe the matters which shall or shall not be included in such labels;
(k) prescribe the maximum proportion of any poisonous substance which may be
added to or contained in any drug, prohibit the manufacture, sale or stocking
or exhibition for sale, or distribution of any drug in which that proportion
is exceeded, and specify substances which shall be deemed to be poisonous for
the purposes of this Chapter and the rules made thereunder;
(l) require that the accepted scientific name of any specified drug shall be
displayed in the prescribed manner on the label or wrapper of any patent or
proprietary medicine containing such drug; 178 [***]
179 [(n) prescribe the powers and duties of Inspectors 180 [and the
qualifications of the authority to which such Inspectors shall be subordinate]
and 181 [specify the drugs or classes of drugs or cosmetics or classes of
cosmetics] in relation to which and the conditions, limitations or
restrictions subject to which, such powers and duties may be exercised or
performed;]
(o) prescribe the forms of report to be given by Government Analysts, and the
manner of application for test or analysis under section 26 and the fees
payable therefor;
182 [(p) specify the offences against this Chapter or any rule made thereunder
in relation to which an order of confiscation may be made under section 31;
183 [***]]
(q) provide for the exemption, conditionally or otherwise, from all or any of
the provisions of this Chapter or the rules made thereunder, of any specified
drug or class of drugs 184 [or cosmetic or class of cosmetics]; 185 [and]
186 [(r) sum which may be specified by the Central Government under section
32B.] 187 [***] COMMENTS
It was obligatory on the part of the rule making authority to satisfy the
Court that it was necessary in the facts and circumstances of the case to
enhance the fees payable for the renewal of licence in the manner as has been
sought to be done; Jaiswal Medical Hall v. Union of India, AIR 1988 Pat 266.
1[33A. Chapter not to apply to 2[Ayurvedic, Siddha or Unani] drugs.—Save as
otherwise provided in this Act, nothing contained in this Chapter shall apply
to 2[Ayurvedic, Siddha or Unani] drugs.]
33B. Application of Chapter IVA.—This Chapter shall apply only to 1[Ayurvedic,
Siddha and Unani] drugs.
33C. Ayurvedic and Unani Drugs Technical Advisory Board.—
(1) The Central Government shall, by notification in the Official Gazette and
with effect from such date as may be specified therein, constitute a Board (to
be called the 1[Ayurvedic, Siddha and Unani Drugs Technical Advisory Board])
to advise the Central Government and the State Governments on technical
matters arising out of this Chapter and to carry out the other functions
assigned to it by this Chapter.
(2) The Board shall consist of the following members, namely,—
(i) the Director General of Health Services, ex officio;
(ii) the Drugs Controller, India, ex officio; 2[(iii) the principal officer
dealing with Indian systems of medicine in the Ministry of Health, ex
officio;]
(iv) the Director of the Central Drugs Laboratory, Calcutta, ex officio;
(v) one person holding the appointment of Government Analyst under section
33F, to be nominated by the Central Government;
(vi) one Pharmacognocist to be nominated by the Central Government;
(vii) one Phyto-chemist to be nominated by the Central Government; 3[(viii)
four persons to be nominated by the Central Government, two from amongst the
members of the Ayurvedic Pharmacopoeia Committee, one from amongst the members
of Unani Pharmacopoeia Committee and one from amongst the members of the
Siddha Pharmacopoeia Committee;]
(ix) one teacher in Darvyaguna and Bhaishajya Kalpana, to be nominated by the
Central Government;
(x) one teacher in Ilm-ul-Advia and Taklis-Wa-Dawa-Sazi, to be nominated by
the Central Government; 4[(xi) one teacher in Gunapadam to be nominated by the
Central Government; 2[(xi) one teacher in Gunapadam to be nominated by the
Central Government;"
(xii) three persons, one each to represent the Ayurvedic, Siddha and Unani
drug industry, to be nominated by the Central Government;
(xiii) three persons, one each from amongst the practitioners of Ayurvedic,
Siddha and Unani Tibb systems of medicine to be nominated by the Central
Government.]
(3) The Central Government shall appoint a member of the Board as its
Chairman.
(4) The nominated members of the Board shall hold office for three years but
shall be eligible for renomination.
(5) The Board may, subject to the previous approval of the Central Government,
make bye-laws fixing quorum and regulating its own procedure and conduct of
all business to be transacted by it.
(6) The functions of the Board may be exercised notwithstanding any vacancy
therein.
(7) The Central Government shall appoint a person to be Secretary of the Board
and shall provide the Board with such clerical and other staff as the Central
Government considers necessary.
1[33D. The Ayurvedic, Siddha and Unani Drugs Consultative Committee.—
(1) The Central Government may constitute an Advisory Committee to be called
the Ayurvedic, Siddha and Unani Drugs Consultative Committee to advise the
Central Government, the State Governments and the Ayurvedic, Siddha and Unani
Drugs Technical Advisory Board on any matter for the purpose of securing
uniformity throughout India in the administration of this Act in so far as it
relates to Ayurvedic, Siddha or Unani drugs.
(2) The Ayurvedic, Siddha and Unani Drugs Consultative Committee shall consist
of two persons to be nominated by the Central Government as representatives of
that Government and not more than one representative of each State to be
nominated by the State Government concerned.
(3) The Ayurvedic, Siddha and Unani Drugs Consultative Committee shall meet
when required to do so by the Central Government and shall regulate its own
procedure.]
196 [33E. Misbranded drugs.—For the purposes of this Chapter, an Ayurvedic,
Siddha or Unani drug shall be deemed to be misbranded—
(a) if it is so coloured, coated, powdered or polished that damage is
concealed, or if it is made to appear of better or greater therapeutic value
than it really is; or
(b) if it is not labelled in the prescribed manner; or
(c) if its label or container or anything accompanying the drug bears any
statement, design or device which makes any false claim for the drug or which
is false or misleading in any particular.]
197 [33EE. Adulterated drugs.—For the purposes of this Chapter, an Ayurvedic,
Siddha or Unani drug shall be deemed to be adulterated,—
(a) if it consists, in whole or in part, of any filthy, putrid or decomposed
substance; or
(b) if it has been prepared, packed or stored under insanitary conditions
whereby it may have been contaminated with filth or whereby it may have been
rendered injurious to health; or
(c) if its container is composed, in whole or in part, of any poisonous or
deleterious substance which may render the contents injurious to health; or
(d) if it bears or contains, for purposes of colouring only, a colour other
than one which is prescribed; or
(e) if it contains any harmful or toxic substance which may render it
injurious to health; or
(f) if any substance has been mixed therewith so as to reduce its quality or
strength. Explanation.—For the purpose of clause (a), a drug shall not be
deemed to consist, in whole or in part, of any decomposed substance only by
reason of the fact that such decomposed substance is the result of any natural
decomposition of the drug: Provided that such decomposition is not due to any
negligence on the part of the manufacturer of the drug or the dealer thereof
and that it does not render the drug injurious to health.]
198 [33EEA. Spurious drugs.—For the purposes of this Chapter, an Ayurvedic,
Siddha or Unani drug shall be deemed to be spurious—
(a) if it is sold, or offered or exhibited for sale, under a name which
belongs to another drug; or
(b) if it is an imitation of, or is a substitute for, another drug or
resembles another drug in a manner likely to deceive, or bears upon it or upon
its label or container the name of another drug, unless it is plainly and
conspicuously marked so as to reveal its true character and its lack of
identity with such other drug; or
(c) if the label or container bears the name of an individual or company
purporting to be the manufacturer of the drug, which individual or company is
fictitious or does not exist; or
(d) if it has been substituted wholly or in part by any other drug or
substance; or
(e) if it purports to be the product of a manufacturer of whom it is not truly
a product.]
199 [33EEB. Regulation of manufacture for sale of Ayurvedic, Siddha and Unani
drugs.—No person shall manufacture for sale or for distribution any Ayurvedic,
Siddha or Unani drug except in accordance with such standards, if any, as may
be prescribed in relation to that drug.]
200 [33EEC. Prohibition of manufacture and sale of certain Ayurvedic, Siddha
and Unani drugs.—From such date as the State Government may, by notification
in the Official Gazette, specify in this behalf, no person, either by himself
or by any other person on his behalf, shall—
(a) manufacture for sale or for distribution—
(i) any misbranded, adulterated or spurious Ayurvedic, Siddha or Unani drug;
(ii) any patent or proprietary medicine, unless there is displayed in the
prescribed manner on the label or container thereof the true list of all the
ingredients contained in it; and
(iii) any Ayurvedic, Siddha or Unani drug in contravention of any of the
provisions of this Chapter or any rule made thereunder;
(b) sell, stock or exhibit or offer for sale or distribute any Ayurvedic,
Siddha or Unani drug which has been manufactured in contravention of any of
the provisions of this Act, or any rule made thereunder;
(c) manufacture for sale or for distribution, any Ayurvedic, Siddha or Unani
drug, except under, and in accordance with the conditions of, a licence issued
for such purpose under this Chapter by the prescribed authority: Provided that
nothing in this section shall apply to Vaidyas and Hakims who manufacture
Ayurvedic, Siddha or Unani drug for the use of their own patients: Provided
further that nothing in this section shall apply to the manufacture, subject
to the prescribed conditions, of small quantities of any Ayurvedic, Siddha or
Unani drug for the purpose of examination, test or analysis.]
201 [33EED. Power of Central Government to prohibit manufacture, etc., of
Ayurvedic, Siddha or Unani drugs in public interest.—Without prejudice to any
other provision contained in this Chapter, if the Central Government is
satisfied on the basis of any evidence or other material available before it
that the use of any Ayurvedic, Siddha or Unani drug is likely to involve any
risk to human beings or animals or that any such drug does not have the
therapeutic value claimed or purported to be claimed for it and that in the
public interest it is necessary or expedient so to do then, that Government
may, by notification in the Official Gazette, prohibit the manufacture, sale
or distribution of such drug.]
33F. Government Analysts.—
(1) The Central Government or a State Government may, by notification in the
Official Gazette, appoint such persons as it thinks fit, having the prescribed
qualifications, to be Government Analysts for such areas as may be assigned to
them by the Central Government or the State Government, as the case may be.
(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1), neither the Central
Government nor a State Government shall appoint as a Government Analyst any
official not serving under it without the previous consent of the Government
under which he is serving. 1[(3) No person who has any financial interest in
the manufacture or sale of any drug shall be appointed to be a Government
Analyst under this section.]
33G. Inspectors.—
(1) The Central Government or a State Government may, by notification in the
Official Gazette, appoint such persons as it thinks fit, having the prescribed
qualifications, to be Inspectors for such areas as may be assigned to them by
the Central Government or the State Government as the case may be.
(2) The powers which may be exercised by an Inspector and the duties which may
be performed by him and the conditions, limitations or restrictions subject to
which such powers and duties may be exercised or performed shall be such as
may be prescribed.
(3) No person who has any financial interest in the manufacture or sale of any
drug shall be appointed to be an Inspector under this section.
(4) Every Inspector shall be deemed to be a public servant within the meaning
of section 21 of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860) and shall be officially
subordinate to such authority as the Government appointing him may specify in
this behalf.
33H. Application of provisions of sections 22, 23, 24 and 25.—The provisions
of sections 22, 23, 24 and 25 and the rules, if any, made thereunder shall, so
far as may be, apply in relation to an Inspector and a Government Analyst
appointed under this Chapter as they apply in relation to an Inspector and a
Government Analyst appointed under Chapter IV, subject to the modification
that the references to “drug” in the said sections, shall be construed as
references to 1[Ayurvedic, Siddha or Unani] drug.
204 [ 205 [ 33-I Penalty for manufacture, sale, etc., of Ayurvedic, Siddha or
Unani drug in contravention of this Chapter. —Whoever himself or by any other
person on his behalf—
(1) manufactures for sale or for distribution—
206 [(a) any Ayurvedic, Siddha or Unani drug—
(i) deemed to be misbranded under section 33E,
(ii) deemed to be adulterated under section 33EE, or
(iii) without a valid licence or in violation of any of the conditions
thereof, as required under section 33EEC, shall be punishable with
imprisonment for a term which may extend to one year and with fine which shall
not be less than twenty thousand rupees or three times the value of the drugs
confiscated, whichever is more;]
(b) any Ayurvedic, Siddha or Unani drug deemed to be spurious under section
33EEA, shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which shall not be
less than one year but which may extend to three years and with fine which
shall not be less than 207 [fifty thousand rupees or three times the value of
the drugs confiscated, whichever is more]:
Provided that the Court may, for any adequate and special reasons to be
mentioned in the judgment, impose a sentence of imprisonment for a term of
less than one year and of fine of less than 207 [fifty thousand rupees or
three times the value of the drugs confiscated, whichever is more]; or
208 [(c) any Ayurvedic, Siddha or Unani drug in contravention of the
provisions of any notification issued under section 33EED shall be punishable
with imprisonment for a term which may extend to three years and with fine
which may extend to fifty thousand rupees or three times the value of the
drugs confiscated, whichever is more.]
(2) contravenes any other provisions of this Chapter or of section 24 as
applied by section 33H or any rule made under this Chapter, shall be
punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to 209 [six months
and with fine which shall not be less than ten thousand rupees].
210 [ 211 [ 33J Penalty for subsequent offences. —Whoever having been
convicted of an offence,—
(a) under clause (a) of sub-section (1) of section 33-I is again convicted of
an offence under that clause, shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term
which may extend to two years and with fine which shall not be less than 212
[fifty thousand rupees or three times the value of the drugs confiscated,
whichever is more];
(b) under clause (b) of sub-section (1) of section 33-I is again convicted of
an offence under that clause, shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term
which shall not be less than two years but which may extend to six years and
with fine which shall not be less than 213 [one lakh rupees or three times the
value of the drugs confiscated, whichever is more]: Provided that the Court
may, for any adequate and special reasons to be mentioned in the judgment,
impose a sentence of imprisonment for a term of less than two years and of
fine of less than 213 [one lakh rupees or three times the value of the drugs
confiscated, whichever is more];
(c) under sub-section (2) of section 33-I is again convicted of an offence
under that sub-section, shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which
may extend to 214 [one year and with fine which shall not be less than twenty
thousand rupees or three times the value of the drugs confiscated, whichever
is more].
33K. Confiscation.—Where any person has been convicted under this Chapter, the
stock of the 1[Ayurvedic, Siddha or Unani] drug, in respect of which the
contravention has been made, shall be liable to confiscation.
216 [ 217 [ 33KA Disclosure of name of manufacturer, etc. — Every person, not
being the manufacturer of any Ayurvedic, Siddha or Unani drug or his agent for
the distribution thereof, shall, if so required, disclose to the Inspector the
name, address and other particulars of the person from whom he acquired the
Ayurvedic, Siddha or Unani drug.]
218 [ 219 [ 33KB Maintenance of records and furnishing of information. —Every
person holding a licence under clause (c) of section 33EEC shall keep and
maintain such records, registers and other documents as may be prescribed and
shall furnish to any officer or authority exercising any power or discharging
any function under this Act such information as is required by such officer or
authority for carrying out the purposes of this Act.]
33L. Application of provisions to Government departments.—The provisions of
this Chapter except those contained in section 33K shall apply in relation to
the manufacture for sale, sale or distribution of any 1[Ayurvedic, Siddha or
Unani] drug by any department of Government as they apply in relation to the
manufacture for sale, sale, or distribution of such drug by any other person.
33M. Cognizance of offences.—
(1) No prosecution under this Chapter shall be instituted except by an
Inspector 1[with the previous sanction of the authority specified under sub-
section (4) of section 33G].
(2) No Court inferior to that 2[of a Metropolitan Magistrate or of a Judicial
Magistrate of the first class] shall try an offence punishable under this
Chapter.
223 [ 33N Power of Central Government to make rules. —
(1) The Central Government may, 224 [after consultation with, or on the
recommendation of, the Board] and after previous publication by notification
in the Official Gazette, make rules for the purpose of giving effect to the
provisions of this Chapter: Provided that consultation with the Board may be
dispensed with if the Central Government is of opinion that circumstances have
arisen which render it necessary to make rules without such consultation, but
in such a case, the Board shall be consulted within six months of the making
of the rules and the Central Government shall take into consideration any
suggestions which the Board may make in relation to the amendment of the said
rules.
(2) Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power, such rules
may—
(a) provide for the establishment of laboratories for testing and analysing
225 [Ayurvedic, Siddha or Unani] drugs;
(b) prescribe the qualifications and duties of Government Analysts and the
qualifications of Inspectors;
(c) prescribe the methods of test or analysis to be employed in determining
whether any 225 [Ayurvedic, Siddha or Unani] drug is labelled with the true
list of the ingredients which it is purported to contain;
(d) specify any substance as a poisonous substance;
(e) prescribe the forms of licences for the manufacture for sale of 225
[Ayurvedic, Siddha or Unani] drugs, 226 [and for sale of processed Ayurvedic,
Siddha or Unani drugs,] the form of application for such licences, the
conditions subject to which such licences may be issued, the authority
empowered to issue the same and the fees payable therefor; 226 [and provide
for the cancellation or suspension of such licences in any case where any
provision of this Chapter or rules made thereunder is contravened or any of
the conditions subject to which they are issued is not complied with];
227 [(f) prescribe the conditions to be observed in the packing of Ayurvedic,
Siddha and Unani drugs including the use of packing material which comes into
direct contact with the drugs, regulate the mode of labelling packed drugs and
prescribe the matters which shall or shall not be included in such labels;]
(g) prescribe the conditions subject to which small quantities of 225
[Ayurvedic, Siddha or Unani] drugs may be manufactured for the purpose of
examination, test or analysis; and
226 [(gg) prescribe under clause (d) of section 33EE the colour or colours
which an Ayurvedic, Siddha or Unani drug may bear or contain for purposes of
colouring;]
226 [(gga) prescribe the standards for Ayurvedic, Siddha or Unani drugs under
section 33EEB 228 [***];]
229 [(ggb) prescribe the records, registers or other documents to be kept and
maintained under section 33KB; and]
(h) any other matter which is to be or may be prescribed under this Chapter.
33-O. Power to amend First Schedule.—The Central Government, after
consultation with the Board and after giving, by notification in the Official
Gazette, not less than three months’ notice of its intention so to do, may, by
a like notification, add to or otherwise amend the First Schedule for the
purposes of this Chapter and thereupon the said Schedule shall be deemed to be
amended accordingly.]
1[2[33P. ] Power to give directions.—The Central Government may give such
directions to any State Government as may appear to the Central Government to
be necessary for carrying into execution in the State any of the provisions of
this Act or of any rule or order made thereunder.]
34. Offences by companies.—
(1) Where an offence under this Act has been committed by a company, every
person who at the time the offence was committed, was in charge of, and was
responsible to the company for the conduct of the business of the company, as
well as the company shall be deemed to be guilty of the offence and shall be
liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly: Provided that nothing
contained in this sub-section shall render any such person liable to any
punishment provided in this Act if he proves that the offence was committed
without his knowledge or that he exercised all due diligence to prevent the
commission of such offence.
(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1), where an offence
under this Act has been committed by a company and it is proved that the
offence has been committed with the consent or connivance of, or is
attributable to any neglect on the part of, any director, manager, secretary
or other officer of the company, such director, manager, secretary or other
officer shall also be deemed to be guilty of that offence and shall be liable
to be proceeded against and punished accordingly. Explanation.—For the
purposes of this section—
(a) “company” means a body corporate, and includes a firm or other association
of individuals; and
(b) “director” in relation to a firm means a partner in the firm.
1[34A. Offences by Government departments.—Where an offence under Chapter IV
or Chapter IVA has been committed by any department of Government, such
authority as is specified by the Central Government to be in charge of
manufacture, sale or distribution of drugs or where no authority is specified,
the head of the department, shall be deemed to be guilty of the offence and
shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly: Provided
that nothing contained in this section shall render any such authority or
person liable to any punishment provided in Chapter IV or Chapter IVA, as the
case may be, if such authority or person proves that the offence was committed
without its or his knowledge or that such authority or person exercised all
due diligence to prevent the commission of such offence.]
1[34AA. Penalty for vexatious search or seizure.—Any Inspector exercising
powers under this Act or the rules made thereunder, who,—
(a) without reasonable ground of suspicion searches any place, vehicle, vessel
or other conveyance; or
(b) vexatiously and unnecessarily searches any person; or
(c) vexatiously and unnecessarily seizes any drug or cosmetic, or any
substance or article, or any record, register, document or other material
object; or
(d) commits, as such Inspector, any other act, to the injury of any person
without having reason to believe that such act is required for the execution
of his duty, shall be punishable with fine which may extend to one thousand
rupees.]
35. Publication of sentences passed under this Act.—
(1) If any person is convicted of an offence under this Act, 1[the Court
before which the conviction takes place shall, on application made to it by
the Inspector, cause] the offender’s name, place of residence, the offence of
which he has been convicted and the penalty which has been inflicted upon him,
to be published at the expense of such person in such newspapers or in such
other manner as the Court may direct.
(2) The expenses of such publication shall be deemed to form part of the costs
relating to the conviction and shall be recoverable in the same manner as
those costs are recoverable.
36. Magistrate’s power to impose enhanced penalties.—Notwithstanding anything contained in 1[***] 2[the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974)], it shall be lawful for 3[any Metropolitan Magistrate or any Judicial Magistrate of the first class] to pass any sentence authorized by this Act in excess of his powers under 1[***] the said Code.
238 [ 239 [ 36A Certain offences to be tried summarily. —Notwithstanding
anything contained in the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974), 240
[all offences(except the offences triable by the Special Court under section
36AB or Court of Session) under this Act], punishable with imprisonment for a
term not exceeding three years, other than an offence under clause (b) of sub-
section
(1) of section 33-I, shall be tried in a summary way by a Judicial Magistrate
of the first class specially empowered in this behalf by the State Government
or by a Metropolitan Magistrate and the provisions of sections 262 to 265
(both inclusive) of the said Code shall, as far as may be, apply to such
trial: Provided that, in the case of any conviction in a summary trial under
this section, it shall be lawful for the Magistrate to pass a sentence of
imprisonment for a term not exceeding one year: Provided further that when at
the commencement of, or in the course of, a summary trial under this section
it appears to the Magistrate that the nature of the case is such that a
sentence of imprisonment for a term exceeding one year may have to be passed
or that it is, for any other reason, undesirable to try the case summarily,
the Magistrate shall, after hearing the parties, record an order to that
effect and thereafter recall any witness who has been examined and proceed to
hear or rehear the case in the manner provided by the said Code.]
241 [ 36AB Special Courts. —
(1) The Central Government, or the State Government, in consultation with the
Chief Justice of the High Court, shall, for trial of offences relating to
adulterated drugs or spurious drugs and punishable under clauses
(a) and (b) of section 13, sub-section (3) of section 22, clauses (a) and (c)
of section 27, section 28, section 28A, section 28B and clause (b) of sub-
section (l) of section 30 and other offences relating to adulterated drugs or
spurious drugs, by notification, designate one or more Courts of Session as a
Special Court or Special Courts for such area or areas or for such case or
class or group of cases as may be specified in the notification. Explanation
.—In this sub-section, “High Court” means the High Court of the State in which
a Court of Session designated as Special Court was functioning immediately
before such designation.
(2) While trying an offence under this Act, a Special Court shall also try an
offence, other than an offence referred to in sub-section (l), with which the
accused may, under the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974), be
charged at the same trial.]
242 [ 243 [ 36AC Offences to be cognizable and non-bailable in certain cases.
—
(1) Notwithstanding anything contained in the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973
(2 of 1974),—
(a) every offence, relating to adulterated or spurious drug and punishable
under clauses (a) and (c) of sub-section (1) of section 13, clause (a) of sub-
section (2) of section 13, sub-section (3) of section 22, clauses (a) and (c)
of section 27, section 28, section 28A, section 28B and sub-sections (1) and
(2) of section 30 and other offences relating to adulterated drugs or spurious
drugs, shall be cognizable.
(b) no person accused, of an offence punishable under clauses (a) and (c) of
sub-section (1) of section 13, clause (a) of sub-section (2) of section 13,
sub-section (3) of section 22, clauses (a) and (c) of section 27, section 28,
section 28A, section 28B and sub-sections (1) and (2) of section 30 and other
offences relating to adulterated drugs or spurious drugs, shall be released on
bail or on his own bond unless—
(i) the Public Prosecutor has been given an opportunity to oppose the
application for such release; and
(ii) where the Public Prosecutor opposes the application, the Court is
satisfied that there are reasonable grounds for believing that he is not
guilty of such offence and that he is not likely to commit any offence while
on bail:
Provided that a person, who, is under the age of sixteen years, or is a woman
or is sick or infirm, may be released on bail, if the Special Court so
directs.
(2) The limitation on granting of bail specified in clause (b) of sub-section
(1) is in addition to the limitations under the Code of Criminal Procedure,
1973 (2 of 1974) or any other law for the time being in force on granting of
bail.
(3) Nothing contained in this section shall be deemed to affect the special
powers of the High Court regarding bail under section 439 of the Code of
Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974) and the High Court may exercise such
powers including the power under clause (b) of sub-section (1) of that section
as if the reference to “Magistrate” in that section includes also a reference
to a “Special Court” designated under section 36AB.]
244 [ 245 [ 36AD Application of Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 to
proceedings before Special Court. —
(1) Save as otherwise provided in this Act, the provisions of the Code of
Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974) (including the provisions as to bails or
bonds), shall apply to the proceedings before a Special Court and for the
purposes of the said provisions, the Special Court shall be deemed to be a
Court of Session and the person conducting the prosecution before the Special
Court, shall be deemed to be a Public Prosecutor: Provided that the Central
Government or the State Government may also appoint, for any case or class or
group of cases, a Special Public Prosecutor.
(2) A person shall not be qualified to be appointed as a Public Prosecutor or
a Special Public Prosecutor under this section unless he has been in practice
as an advocate for not less than seven years, under the Union or a State,
requiring special knowledge of law.
(3) Every person appointed as a Public Prosecutor or a Special Public
Prosecutor under this section shall be deemed to be a Public Prosecutor within
the meaning of clause (u) of section 2 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973
(2 of 1974) and the provisions of that Code shall have effect accordingly.]
246 [ 247 [ 36AE Appeal and revision. —The High Court may exercise, so far as
may be applicable, all the powers conferred by Chapter XXIX or Chapter XXX of
the Code of Criminal Procedure, l973 (2 of 1974), on a High Court, as if a
Special Court within the local limits of the jurisdiction of the High Court
were a Court of Session trying cases within the local limits of the
jurisdiction of the High Court.] ]
37. Protection of action taken in good faith.—No suit, prosecution or other legal proceeding shall lie against any person for anything which is in good faith done or intended to be done under this Act.
1[38. Rules to be laid before Parliament.—Every rule made under this Act shall
be laid as soon as may be after it is made before each House of Parliament
while it is in session for a total period of thirty days which may be
comprised in one session or in two or more successive sessions, 2[and if,
before the expiry of the session immediately following the session or the
successive sessions aforesaid], both Houses agree in making any modification
in the rule or both Houses agree that the rule should not be made, the rule
shall thereafter have effect only in such modified form or be of no effect, as
the case may be; so however that any such modification or annulment shall be
without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done under that
rule.]
1\. Ins. by Act 13 of 1964, sec. 2 (w.e.f. 15-9-1964).
2\. Subs. by Act 68 of 1982, sec. 2, for “Ayurvedic (including Siddha) or
Unani” (w.e.f. 1-2-1983).
3\. Subs. by Act 68 of 1982, sec. 3, for “disease in human beings, mentioned
in, and processed and manufactured” (w.e.f. 1-2-1983).
4\. Subs. by Act 68 of 1982, sec. 3, for “Ayurvedic (including Siddha) and
Unani (Tibb) system of medicine” (w.e.f. 1-2-1983).
5\. Original clause (a) relettered as clause (aa) and subs. by Act 13 of 1964,
sec. 2 (w.e.f. 15-9-1964).
6\. Subs. by Act 68 of 1982, sec. 3, for “Ayurvedic and Unani Drugs Technical
Advisory Board” (w.e.f. 1-2-1983).
7\. Clause (aa) ins. by Act 21 of 1962, sec. 4 (w.e.f. 27-7-1964) and
relettered as clause (aaa) by Act 13 of 1964, sec. 2 (w.e.f. 15-9-1964).
8\. The words “, but does not include soap” omitted by Act 68 of 1982, sec. 3
(w.e.f. 1-2-1983).
9\. Subs. by Act 11 of 1955, sec. 2, for clause (b) (w.e.f. 15-4-1955).
10\. Subs. by Act 68 of 1982, sec. 3, for sub-clause (i) (w.e.f. 1-2-1983).
11\. Subs. by Act 13 of 1964, sec. 2, for “vermins” (w.e.f. 15-9-1964).
12\. Ins. by Act 68 of 1982, sec. 3 (w.e.f. 1-2-1983).
13\. Subs. by Act 13 of 1964, sec. 2, for clause (c) (w.e.f. 15-9-1964).
14\. Subs. by Act 68 of 1982, sec. 2, for “Ayurvedic (including Siddha) or
Unani” (w.e.f. 1-2-1983).
15\. Clause (d) omitted by Act 19 of 1972, sec. 3 (w.e.f. 31-5-1972).
16\. Subs. by Act 13 of 1964, sec. 2, for clause (e) (w.e.f. 15-9-1964).
17\. Clause (bbb) ins. by Act 11 of 1955, sec. 2 (w.e.f. 15-4-1955) and
relettered as clause (f) by Act 35 of 1960, sec. 2 (w.e.f. 16-3-1961)
18\. Ins. by Act 21 of 1962, sec. 4 (w.e.f. 27-7-1964).
19\. Subs. by Act 68 of 1982, sec. 3, for “sale and distribution” (w.e.f.
1-2-1983)
20\. Subs. by Act 21 of 1962, sec. 4, for “or packing of any drug”.
21\. Clauses (c), (d) and (e) relettered as clauses (g), (h) and (i)
respectively by Act 35 of 1960, sec. 2 (w.e.f. 16-3-1961).
22\. Subs. by Act 3 of 1951, sec. 3 and Sch., for “the States”.
23\. Clause (d) relettered as clause (h) by Act 35 of 1960, sec. 2 (w.e.f.
16-3-1961) and subs. by Act 68 of 1982, sec. 3 (w.e.f. 1-2-1983).
24\. Clause (e) subs. by Act 11 of 1955, sec. 2 (w.e.f. 15-4-1955) and
relettered as clause (i) by Act 35 of 1960, sec. 2 (w.e.f. 16-3-1961).
25\. Clause (f) ins. by the A.O. 1950 and omitted by Act 3 of 1951, sec. 3 and
Sch.
26\. Ins. by Act 19 of 1972, sec. 4 (w.e.f. 31-5-1972).
27\. Ins. by Act 13 of 1964, sec. 3 (w.e.f. 15-9-1964). tc" 1. Ins. by Act 13
of 1964, sec. 3 (w.e.f. 15-9-1964)."
28\. Subs. by Act 13 of 1964, sec. 4, for sub-section (2) (w.e.f. 15-9-1964).
29\. Subs. by Act 13 of 1964, sec. 4, for the Proviso (w.e.f. 15-9-1964).
30\. Ins. by Act 21 of 1962, sec. 5 (w.e.f. 27-7-1964).
31\. Clauses (b) and (c) omitted by Act 11 of 1955, sec. 4 (w.e.f. 15-4-1955).
32\. Subs. by Act 13 of 1964, sec. 5, for “under Chapter IV” (w.e.f.
15-9-1964).
33\. Ins. by Act 3 of 1951, sec. 3 and Sch., for “the States”.
34\. Ins. by Act 13 of 1964, sec. 6 (w.e.f. 15-9-1964).
35\. Subs. by Act 68 of 1982, sec. 2, for “Ayurvedic (including Siddha) or
Unani” (w.e.f. 1-2-1983).
36\. Subs. by Act 21 of 1962, sec. 6, for sub-section (1) (w.e.f. 27-7-1964).
37\. Subs. by Act 13 of 1964, sec. 7, for “the Schedule” (w.e.f. 15-9-1964).
38\. Subs. by Act 68 of 1982, sec. 5, for section 9 (w.e.f. 1-2-1983).
39\. Section 9A ins. by Act 21 of 1962, sec. 7 and subs. by Act 68 of 1982,
sec. 6 (w.e.f. 1-2-1983).
40\. Section 9B ins. by Act 13 of 1964, sec. 8 (w.e.f. 15-9-1964) and subs. by
Act 68 of 1982, sec. 6 (w.e.f. 1-2-1983).
41\. Ins. by Act 68 of 1982, sec. 6 (w.e.f. 1-2-1983).
42\. Ins. by Act 68 of 1982, sec. 6 (w.e.f. 1-2-1983).
43\. Ins. by Act 68 of 1982, sec. 8 (w.e.f. 1-2-1983).
44\. Now see the Customs Act, 1962 (52 of 1962).
45\. Ins. by Act 21 of 1962, sec. 9 (w.e.f. 27-7-1964).
46\. Subs. by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 83, for “Customs Collector” (w.e.f.
26-5-1995).
47\. Ins. by Act 21 of 1962, sec. 9 (w.e.f. 27-7-1964).
48\. Subs. by Act 11 of 1955, sec. 6, for sub-section (2) (w.e.f. 15-4-1955).
49\. Subs. by Act 22 of 1995, sec. 83, for “Customs Collector” (w.e.f.
26-5-1995).
50\. Ins. by Act 21 of 1962, sec. 9 (w.e.f. 27-7-1964).
51\. Subs. by Act 68 of 1982, sec. 9, for “after consultation with the Board”
(w.e.f. 1-2-1983).
52\. Ins. by Act 11 of 1955, sec. 7 (w.e.f. 15-4-1955).
53\. Ins. by Act 21 of 1962, sec. 10 (w.e.f. 27-7-1964).
54\. Subs. by Act 68 of 1982, sec. 9, for certain words (w.e.f. 1-2-1983).
55\. Ins. by Act 13 of 1964, sec. 10 (w.e.f. 15-9-1964).
56\. Subs. by Act 68 of 1982, sec. 9 for “section 9B” (w.e.f. 1-2-1983).
57\. Subs. by Act 11 of 1955, sec. 7, for “to cure or mitigate” (w.e.f.
15-4-1955).
58\. Ins. by Act 21 of 1962, sec. 10 (w.e.f. 27-7-1964).
59\. Subs. by Act 3 of 1951, sec. 3 and Sch., for “the States”.
60\. Ins. by Act 68 of 1982, sec. 9 (w.e.f. 1-2-1983).
61\. Ins. by Act 21 of 1962, sec. 10 (w.e.f. 27-7-1964).
62\. Subs. by Act 68 of 1982, sec. 10, for section 13 (w.e.f. 1-2-1983).
63\. Ins. by Act 21 of 1962, sec. 11 (w.e.f. 27-7-1964).
64\. Subs. by Act 68 of 1982, sec. 11, for certain words (w.e.f. 1-2-1983).
65\. Subs. by Act 21 of 1962, sec. 12, for sub-section (1) (w.e.f. 27-7-1964).
66\. Subs. by Act 13 of 1964, sec. 11, for “the Schedule” (w.e.f. 15-9-1964).
67\. Subs. by Act 11 of 1955, sec. 8, for “State Government” (w.e.f.
15-4-1955).
68\. Subs. by Act 68 of 1982, sec. 13, for section 17 (w.e.f. 1-2-1983).
69\. Section 17A ins. by Act 21 of 1962, sec. 13 (w.e.f. 27-7-1963) and subs.
by Act 68 of 1982, sec. 13 (w.e.f. 1-2-1983).
70\. Section 17B ins. by Act 13 of 1964, sec. 12 (w.e.f. 15-9-1964) and subs.
by Act 68 of 1982, sec. 13 (w.e.f. 1-2-1983).
71\. Ins. by Act 68 of 1982, sec. 13 (w.e.f. 1-2-1983). tc" 2. Ins. by Act 68
of 1982, sec. 13 (w.e.f. 1-2-1983)."
72\. Ins. by Act 68 of 1982, sec. 13 (w.e.f. 1-2-1983). tc" 2. Ins. by Act 68
of 1982, sec. 13 (w.e.f. 1-2-1983)."
73\. Ins. by Act 26 of 2008, sec. 2.
74\. 1st April, 1947, for sub-clauses (i), (ii), (iv) and (v) of clause (a)
and clauses (b) and (c); 1st April, 1949 for sub-clause (iii) of clause (a) in
so far as it takes effect in Delhi, Ajmer and Coorg, see Notification No.
18-12-46-D, II, dated 11th February, 1947, Gazette of India, 1947, Pt. I, p.
189, as amended by Notification No. F.1-2/48-D(II), dated 29th September,
1948; 1st April, 1953 for the States of Himachal Pradesh, Bilaspur, Kutch,
Bhopal, Tripura, Vindhya Pradesh and Manipur, vide Notification No. S.R.O.
664, dated 30th March, 1953, Gazette of India, 1953, Pt. II, Sec. 3, p. 451.
75\. Subs. by Act 68 of 1982, sec. 14, for “manufacture for sale, or sell, or
stock or exhibit for sale” (w.e.f. 1-2-1983).
76\. Subs. by Act 68 of 1982, sec. 14, for clauses (i), (ii) and (iia) (w.e.f.
1-2-1983). Earlier clauses (i) and (ii) were amended by Act 21 of 1962, sec.
14 (w.e.f. 27-7-1964) and clause (iia) was inserted by Act 13 of 1964, sec. 13
(w.e.f. 15-9-1964).
77\. Subs. by Act 26 of 2008, sec. 3, for sub-clause (ii). Sub-clause (ii),
before substitution, stood as under:
78\. Subs. by Act 11 of 1955, sec. 9, for sub-clause (iii).
79\. Subs. by Act 68 of 1982, sec. 14, for certain words (w.e.f. 1-2-1983).
80\. Subs. by Act 11 of 1955, sec. 9, for “to cure or mitigate”.
81\. Subs. by Act 21 of 1962, sec. 14, for sub-clause (v) (w.e.f. 27-7-1964).
82\. Subs. by Act 68 of 1982, sec. 14, for “sell, or stock or exhibit for
sale”.
83\. Ins. by Act 21 of 1962, sec. 14 (w.e.f. 27-7-1964).
84\. Subs. by Act 68 of 1982, sec. 14, for certain words (w.e.f. 1-2-1983).
85\. Subs. by Act 11 of 1955, sec. 9, for “State Government”.
86\. Subs. by Act 68 of 1982, sec. 14, for “manufacture for sale, sale”
(w.e.f. 1-2-1983).
87\. Explanation omitted by Act 68 of 1982, sec. 14 (w.e.f. 1-2-1983).
88\. Ins. by Act 13 of 1964, sec. 14 (w.e.f. 15-9-1964).
89\. Ins. by Act 68 of 1982, sec. 15 (w.e.f 1-2-1983).
90\. Ins. by Act 21 of 1962, sec. 15 (w.e.f. 27-7-1964). tc" 6. Ins. by Act 21
of 1962, sec. 15 (w.e.f. 27-7-1964)."
91\. Subs. by Act 13 of 1964, sec. 15, for certain words (w.e.f. 15-9-1964).
tc" 1. Subs. by Act 13 of 1964, sec. 15, for certain words (w.e.f.
15-9-1964)."
92\. Subs. by Act 68 of 1982, sec. 16, for “adulterated” (w.e.f. 1-2-1983).
tc" 2. Subs. by Act 68 of 1982, sec. 16, for “adulterated” (w.e.f. 1-2-1983)."
93\. Ins. by Act 21 of 1962, sec. 15 (w.e.f. 27-7-1964). tc" 3. Ins. by Act 21
of 1962, sec. 15 (w.e.f. 27-7-1964)."
94\. Clause (aa) ins. by Act 11 of 1955, sec. 10 (w.e.f. 15-4-1955) and
omitted by Act 13 of 1964, sec. 15 (w.e.f. 15-9-1964).
95\. Subs. by Act 13 of 1964, sec. 15, for sub-section (3) (w.e.f. 15-9-1964).
tc" 5. Subs. by Act 13 of 1964, sec. 15, for sub-section (3) (w.e.f.
15-9-1964)."
96\. Subs. by Act 35 of 1960, sec. 4, for section 20 (w.e.f. 16-3-1961).
97\. Subs. by Act 21 of 1962, sec. 16, for “class of drugs” (w.e.f.
27-7-1964).
98\. Ins. by Act 68 of 1982, sec. 17 (w.e.f. 1-2-1983).
99\. Subs. by Act 35 of 1960, sec. 4, for section 21 (w.e.f. 16-3-1961). tc"
3. Subs. by Act 35 of 1960, sec. 4, for section 21 (w.e.f. 16-3-1961)."
100\. Subs. by Act 21 of 1962, sec. 17 for “class of drugs” (w.e.f.
27-7-1964).
101\. Subs. by Act 21 of 1962, sec. 17, for “in the manufacture, import or
sale of drugs” (w.e.f. 27-7-1964).
102\. Ins. by Act 68 of 1982, sec. 18 (w.e.f. 1-2-1983). tc" 6. Ins. by Act 68
of 1982, sec. 18 (w.e.f. 1-2-1983)."
103\. Subs. by Act 11 of 1955, sec. 11, for section 22 (w.e.f. 15-4-1955). tc"
7. Subs. by Act 11 of 1955, sec. 11, for section 22 (w.e.f. 15-4-1955)."
104\. Subs. by Act 68 of 1982, sec. 19, for clauses (a), (b) and (c) (w.e.f.
1-2-1983). tc" 1. Subs. by Act 68 of 1982, sec. 19, for clauses (a), (b) and
(c) (w.e.f. 1-2-1983)."
105\. Ins. by Act 35 of 1960, sec. 5 (w.e.f. 16-3-1961). tc" 2. Ins. by Act 35
of 1960, sec. 5 (w.e.f. 16-3-1961)."
106\. Subs. by Act 68 of 1982, sec. 19, for “in any place mentioned in clause
(c)” (w.e.f. 1-2-1983). tc" 3. Subs. by Act 68 of 1982, sec. 19, for “in any
place mentioned in clause (c)” (w.e.f. 1-2-1983)."
107\. Ins. by Act 68 of 1982, sec. 19 (w.e.f. 1-2-1983). tc" 4. Ins. by Act 68
of 1982, sec. 19 (w.e.f. 1-2-1983)."
108\. Subs. by Act 68 of 1982, sec. 19, for “the Code of Criminal Procedure,
1898 (5 of 1898)” (w.e.f. 1-2-1983). tc" 1. Subs. by Act 68 of 1982, sec. 19,
for “the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898 (5 of 1898)” (w.e.f. 1-2-1983)."
109\. Subs. by Act 68 of 1982, sec. 19, for “section 98” (w.e.f. 1-2-1983).
tc" 2. Subs. by Act 68 of 1982, sec. 19, for “section 98” (w.e.f. 1-2-1983)."
110\. Ins. by Act 68 of 1982, sec. 19 (w.e.f. 1-2-1983). tc" 3. Ins. by Act 68
of 1982, sec. 19 (w.e.f. 1-2-1983)."
111\. Ins. by Act 21 of 1962, sec. 15 (w.e.f. 27-7-1964).
112\. Subs. by Act 13 of 1964, sec. 16, for clause (iii) (w.e.f. 15-9-1964). t
113\. Subs. by Act 68 of 1982, sec. 20, for “a Magistrate” (w.e.f. 1-2-1983).
114\. Ins. by Act 35 of 1960, sec. 6 (w.e.f. 16-3-1961).
115\. Ins. by Act 21 of 1962, sec. 15 (w.e.f. 27-7-1964).
116\. Ins. by Act 21 of 1962, sec. 15 (w.e.f. 27-7-1964 ).
117\. Subs. by Act 13 of 1964, sec. 17, for certain words (w.e.f. 15-9-1964 ).
118\. Subs. by Act 13 of 1964, sec. 17, for “or the said warrantor” (w.e.f.
15-9-1964 ).
119\. Ins. by Act 71 of 1986, sec. 2 (w.e.f. 15-9-1987). tc" 1. Ins. by Act 71
of 1986, sec. 2 (w.e.f. 15-9-1987)."
120\. Ins. by Act 21 of 1962, sec. 15 (w.e.f. 27-7-1964). tc" 2. Ins. by Act
21 of 1962, sec. 15 (w.e.f. 27-7-1964)."
121\. Subs. by Act 71 of 1986, sec. 2, for “purchased by him” (w.e.f.
15-9-1987). tc" 3. Subs. by Act 71 of 1986, sec. 2, for “purchased by him”
(w.e.f. 15-9-1987)."
122\. Added by Act 71 of 1986, sec. 2 (w.e.f. 15-9-1987). tc" 4. Added by Act
71 of 1986, sec. 2 (w.e.f. 15-9-1987)."
123\. Ins. by Act 68 of 1982, sec. 21 (w.e.f. 1-2-1983).
124\. Subs. by Act 26 of 2008, sec. 4, for “prohibit”.
125\. Ins. by Act 26 of 2008, sec. 5.
126\. Subs. by Act 68 of 1982, sec. 22, for section 27 (w.e.f. 1-12-1983).
Earlier section 27 was substituted by Act 13 of 1964, sec. 18 (w.e.f.
15-9-1964).
127\. Subs. by Act 26 of 2008, sec. 6(i)(A), for “17B or which”.
128\. Subs. by Act 26 of 2008, sec. 6(i)(B), for “punishable with imprisonment
for a term which shall not be less than five years but which may extend to a
term of life and with fine which shall not be less than ten thousand rupees;”
129\. Ins. by Act 26 of 2008, sec. 6(i)(C).
130\. Subs. by Act 26 of 2008, sec. 6(ii)(A), for “not be less than one year
but which may extend to three years and with fine which shall not be less than
five thousand rupees”.
131\. Subs. by Act 26 of 2008, sec. 6(ii)(B), for “less than one year and of
fine of less than five thousand rupees”.
132\. Subs. by Act 26 of 2008, sec. 6(iii)(A), for “not be less than three
years but which may extend to five years and with fine which shall not be less
than five thousand rupees”.
133\. Subs. by Act 26 of 2008, sec. 6(iii)(B), for “less than three years but
not less than one year”.
134\. Subs. by Act 26 of 2008, sec. 6(iv), for “and with fine”.
135\. Subs. by Act 68 of 1982, sec. 22, for section 27A (w.e.f. 1-2-1983).
Earlier section 27A was inserted by Act 21 of 1962, sec. 19 (w.e.f.
27-7-1964).
136\. Subs. by Act 26 of 2008, sec. 7, for clauses (i) and (ii). Clauses (i)
and (ii), before substitution, stood as under:
137\. Subs. by Act 13 of 1964, sec. 19, for section 28 (w.e.f. 15-9-1964).
138\. Ins. by Act 68 of 1982, sec. 23 (w.e.f. 1-2-1983).
139\. Subs. by Act 26 of 2008, sec. 8, for “with fine which may extend to one
thousand rupees, or with both”. Earlier the said words were amended by Act 68
of 1982, sec. 23 (w.e.f.
140\. Ins. by Act 68 of 1982, sec. 24 (w.e.f. 1-2-1983).
141\. Subs. by Act 26 of 2008, sec. 9, for “with fine which may extend to one
thousand rupees or with both”.
142\. Ins. by Act 68 of 1982, sec. 24 (w.e.f. 1-2-1983).
143\. Ins. by Act 21 of 1962, sec. 15 (w.e.f. 27-7-1964).
144\. Subs. by Act 26 of 2008, sec. 10, for “five hundred rupees”.
145\. Subs. by Act 11 of 1955, sec. 14, for section 30 (w.e.f. 15-4-1955).
146\. Subs. by Act 68 of 1982, sec. 25, for sub-section (1) (w.e.f. 1-2-1983).
147\. Subs. by Act 26 of 2008, sec. 11(a)(i)(A), for “not be less than two
years but which may extend to six years and with fine which shall not be less
than ten thousand rupees”.
148\. Subs. by Act 26 of 2008, sec. 11(a)(i)(B), for “less than two years and
of fine of less than ten thousand rupees;”.
149\. Subs. by Act 26 of 2008, sec. 11(a)(ii), for “shall not be less than six
years but which may extend to ten years and with fine which shall not be less
than ten thousand rupees;”
150\. Subs. by Act 26 of 2008, sec. 11(a)(iii), for “five thousand rupees”.
151\. Ins. by Act 21 of 1962, sec. 20 (w.e.f. 27-7-1964).
152\. Subs. by Act 68 of 1982, sec. 25, for “one thousand rupees” (w.e.f.
1-2-1983).
153\. The words “section 28 or” omitted by Act 13 of 1964, sec. 20 (w.e.f.
15-9-1964).
154\. Subs. by Act 26 of 2008, sec. 11(b), for “ten years, or with fine, or
with both”.
155\. Section 31 re-numbered as sub-section (1) of that section by Act 35 of
1960, sec. 9 (w.e.f. 16-3-1961).
156\. Ins. by Act 21 of 1962, sec. 21 (w.e.f. 27-7-1964).
157\. Added by Act 13 of 1964, sec. 21 (w.e.f. 15-9-1964).
158\. Subs. by Act 68 of 1982, sec. 26, for clause (i) (w.e.f. 1-2-1983).
159\. Subs. by Act 68 of 1982, sec. 26, for certain words (w.e.f. 1-2-1983).
160\. Sub-section (2) ins. by Act 35 of 1960, sec. 9 (w.e.f. 16-3-1961) and
subs. by Act 21 of 1962, sec. 21 (w.e.f. 27-7-1964).
161\. Subs. by Act 13 of 1964, sec. 21, for “or is a misbranded drug” (w.e.f.
15-9-1964).
162\. Subs. by Act 68 of 1982, sec. 26, for “misbranded or adulterated drug,
or misbranded cosmetic” (w.e.f. 1-2-1983).
163\. Ins. by Act 13 of 1964, sec. 22 (w.e.f. 15-9-1964).
164\. Subs. by Act 26 of 2008, sec. 12, for sub-sections (1) and (2). Sub-
sections (1) and (2), before substitution, stood as under:
165\. Ins. by Act 13 of 1964, sec. 23 (w.e.f. 15-9-1964).
166\. Subs. by Act 68 of 1982, sec. 28, for “in sub-section (1) of section 351
of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898 (5 of 1898)” (w.e.f. 1-2-1983).
167\. Ins. by Act 26 of 2008, sec. 13.
168\. Subs. by Act 11 of 1955, sec. 15, for sub-section (1) (w.e.f.
15-4-1955).
169\. Subs. by Act 68 of 1982, sec. 29, for “after consultation with the
Board” (w.e.f. 1-2-1983).
170\. Ins. by Act 21 of 1962, sec. 22 (w.e.f. 27-7-1964).
171\. Ins. by Act 13 of 1964, sec. 24 (w.e.f. 15-9-1964).
172\. Subs. by Act 68 of 1982, sec. 29, for “section 17B” (w.e.f. 1-2-1983).
173\. Ins. by Act 26 of 2008, sec. 14(i).
174\. Subs. by Act 68 of 1982, sec. 29, for “for the manufacture for sale”
(w.e.f. 1-2-1983)
175\. Ins. by Act 21 of 1962, sec. 22 (w.e.f. 27-7-1964).
176\. Ins. by Act 68 of 1982, sec. 29 (w.e.f. 1-2-1983).
177\. Subs. by Act 11 of 1955, sec. 15, for “to cure or mitigate” (w.e.f.
15-4-1955).
178\. Clause (m) omitted by Act 13 of 1964, sec. 24 (w.e.f. 15-9-1964).
179\. Subs. by Act 35 of 1960, sec. 10, for clause (n) (w.e.f. 16-3-1961).
180\. Ins. by Act 68 of 1982, sec. 29 (w.e.f. 1-2-1983).
181\. Subs. by Act 21 of 1962, sec. 22, for “the drugs or class of drugs”
(w.e.f. 27-7-1964).
182\. Subs. by Act 13 of 1964, sec. 24, for clause (p) (w.e.f. 15-9-1964).
183\. The word “and” omitted by Act 26 of 2008, sec. 14(ii).
184\. Ins. by Act 21 of 1962, sec. 22 (w.e.f. 27-7-1964).
185\. Ins. by Act 26 of 2008, sec. 14(iii).
186\. Ins. by Act 26 of 2008, sec. 14(iv).
187\. Sub-section (3) omitted by Act 13 of 1964, sec. 24 (w.e.f. 15-9-1964).
Earlier sub-section (3) was inserted by Act 35 of 1960, sec. 10 (w.e.f.
16-3-1961).
188\. Ins. by Act 13 of 1964, sec. 25 (w.e.f. 1-2-1969).
189\. Subs. by Act 68 of 1982, sec. 2, for “Ayurvedic (including Siddha) or
Unani” (w.e.f. 1-2-1983).
190\. Subs. by Act 68 of 1982, sec. 2, for “Ayurvedic (including Siddha) and
Unani” (w.e.f. 1-2-1983).
191\. Subs. by Act 68 of 1982, sec. 30, for “Ayurvedic and Unani Drugs
Technical Adviory Board” (w.e.f. 1-2-1983).
192\. Subs. by Act 68 of 1982, sec. 30, for clause (iii) (w.e.f. 1-2-1983).
193\. Subs. by Act 68 of 1982, sec. 30, for clause (viii) (w.e.f. 1-2-1983).
194\. Subs. by Act 68 of 1982, sec. 30, for clauses (xi) and (xii) (w.e.f.
1-2-1983).
195\. Subs. by Act 68 of 1982, sec. 31, for sections 33D and 33E (w.e.f.
1-2-1983).
196\. Subs. by Act 68 of 1982, sec. 31, for sections 33D and 33E (w.e.f.
1-2-1983).
197\. Subs. by Act 68 of 1982, sec. 31, for sections 33D and 33E (w.e.f.
1-2-1983).
198\. Subs. by Act 68 of 1982, sec. 31, for sections 33D and 33E (w.e.f.
1-2-1983).
199\. Subs. by Act 68 of 1982, sec. 31, for sections 33D and 33E (w.e.f.
1-2-1983).
200\. Subs. by Act 68 of 1982, sec. 31, for sections 33D and 33E (w.e.f.
1-2-1983).
201\. Subs. by Act 68 of 1982, sec. 31, for sections 33D and 33E (w.e.f.
1-2-1983).
202\. Ins. by Act 68 of 1982, sec. 32 (w.e.f. 1-2-1983).
203\. Subs. by Act 68 of 1982, sec. 2, for “Ayurvedic (including Siddha) or
Unani” (w.e.f. 1-2-1983).
204\. Section 33I ins. by Act 13 of 1964, sec. 26 (w.e.f. 1-2-1969).
205\. Subs. by Act 68 of 1982, sec. 33, for section 33-I (w.e.f. 1-2-1983).
206\. Subs. by Act 26 of 2008, sec. 15(a)(i), for clause (a). Clause (a),
before substitution, stood as under:
207\. Subs. by Act 26 of 2008, sec. 15(a)(ii), for “five thousand rupees”.
208\. Ins. by Act 26 of 2008, sec. 15(a)(iii).
209\. Subs. by Act 26 of 2008, sec. 15(b), for “three months and with fine
which shall not be less than five hundred rupees.”.
210\. Section 33J ins. by Act 13 of 1964, sec. 26 (w.e.f. 1-2-1969).
211\. Subs. by Act 68 of 1982, sec. 33, for section 33J (w.e.f. 1-2-1983).
212\. Subs. by Act 26 of 2008, sec. 16(a), for “two thousand rupees”.
213\. Subs. by Act 26 of 2008, sec. 16(b), for “five thousand rupees”.
214\. Subs. by Act 26 of 2008, sec. 16(c), for “six months and with fine which
shall not be less than one thousand rupees.”.
215\. Subs. by Act 68 of 1982, sec. 2, for “Ayurvedic (including Siddha) or
Unani” (w.e.f. 1-2-1983).
216\. Section 33KA ins. by Act 13 of 1964, sec. 26 (w.e.f. 1-2-1969).
217\. Ins. by Act 26 of 2008, sec. 17.
218\. Section 33KB ins. by Act 13 of 1964, sec. 26 (w.e.f. 1-2-1969).
219\. Ins. by Act 26 of 2008, sec. 17.
220\. Subs. by Act 68 of 1982, sec. 2, for “Ayurvedic (including Siddha) or
Unani” (w.e.f. 1-2-1983).
221\. Ins. by Act 68 of 1982, sec. 34 (w.e.f. 1-2-1983).
222\. Subs. by Act 68 of 1982, sec. 34, for “of a Presidency Magistrate or of
a Magistrate of the first class” (w.e.f. 1-2-1983).
223\. Section 33N ins. by Act 13 of 1964, sec. 26 (w.e.f. 1-2-1969).
224\. Subs. by Act 68 of 1982, sec. 35, for “after consultation with the
Board” (w.e.f. 1-2-1983).
225\. Subs. by Act 68 of 1982, sec. 2, for “Ayurvedic (including Siddha) or
Unani” (w.e.f. 1-2-1983).
226\. Ins. by Act 68 of 1982, sec. 35 (w.e.f. 1-2-1983).
227\. Subs. by Act 68 of 1982, sec. 35, for clause (f) (w.e.f. 1-2-1983).
228\. The word “and” omitted by Act 26 of 2008, sec. 18(i).
229\. Ins. by Act 26 of 2008, sec. 18(ii).
230\. Ins. by Act 35 of 1960, sec. 11 (w.e.f. 16-3-1961).
231\. Section 33A re-numbered as section 33P by Act 13 of 1964, sec. 27
(w.e.f. 15-9-1964).
232\. Ins. by Act 13 of 1964, sec. 28 (w.e.f. 15-9-1964).
233\. Ins. by Act 68 of 1982, sec. 36 (w.e.f. 1-2-1983).
234\. Subs. by Act 68 of 1982, sec. 37, for certain words (w.e.f. 1-2-1983).
235\. The words “section 32 of” omitted by Act 13 of 1964, sec. 29 (w.e.f.
15-9-1964).
236\. Subs. by Act 68 of 1982, sec. 38, for “the Code of Criminal Procedure,
1898 (5 of 1898)” (w.e.f. 1-2-1983).
237\. Subs. by Act 68 of 1982, sec. 38, for “any Presidency Magistrate or any
Magistrate of the first class” (w.e.f. 1-2-1983).
238\. Subs. by Act 11 of 1955, sec. 16, for section 34 (w.e.f. 15-4-1955).
239\. Ins. by Act 68 of 1982, sec. 39 (w.e.f. 1-2-1983).
240\. Subs. by Act 26 of 2008, sec. 19, for “all offences under this Act”.
241\. Ins. by Act 26 of 2008, sec. 20.
242\. Subs. by Act 11 of 1955, sec. 16, for section 34 (w.e.f. 15-4-1955).
243\. Ins. by Act 26 of 2008, sec. 20.
244\. Subs. by Act 11 of 1955, sec. 16, for section 34 (w.e.f. 15-4-1955).
245\. Ins. by Act 26 of 2008, sec. 20.
246\. Subs. by Act 11 of 1955, sec. 16, for section 34 (w.e.f. 15-4-1955).
247\. Ins. by Act 26 of 2008, sec. 20.
248\. Ins. by Act 13 of 1964, sec. 30 (w.e.f. 15-9-1964). tc" 5. Ins. by Act
13 of 1964, sec. 30 (w.e.f. 15-9-1964)."
249\. Subs. by Act 68 of 1982, sec. 40, for certain words (w.e.f. 1-2-1983).
234\. Subs. by Act 68 of 1982, sec. 37, for certain words (w.e.f. 1-2-1983).
235\. The words “section 32 of” omitted by Act 13 of 1964, sec. 29 (w.e.f.
15-9-1964).
236\. Subs. by Act 68 of 1982, sec. 38, for “the Code of Criminal Procedure,
1898 (5 of 1898)” (w.e.f. 1-2-1983).
237\. Subs. by Act 68 of 1982, sec. 38, for “any Presidency Magistrate or any
Magistrate of the first class” (w.e.f. 1-2-1983).
238\. Subs. by Act 11 of 1955, sec. 16, for section 34 (w.e.f. 15-4-1955).
239\. Ins. by Act 68 of 1982, sec. 39 (w.e.f. 1-2-1983).
240\. Subs. by Act 26 of 2008, sec. 19, for “all offences under this Act”.
241\. Ins. by Act 26 of 2008, sec. 20.
242\. Subs. by Act 11 of 1955, sec. 16, for section 34 (w.e.f. 15-4-1955).
243\. Ins. by Act 26 of 2008, sec. 20.
244\. Subs. by Act 11 of 1955, sec. 16, for section 34 (w.e.f. 15-4-1955).
245\. Ins. by Act 26 of 2008, sec. 20.
246\. Subs. by Act 11 of 1955, sec. 16, for section 34 (w.e.f. 15-4-1955).
for internal or external use for or in the diagnosis, treatment, mitigation or
prevention of 3 [disease or disorder in human beings or animals, and
manufactured] exclusively in accordance with the formulae described in, the
authoritative books of 4 [Ayurvedic, Siddha and Unani Tibb systems of
medicine], specified in the First Schedule;]
5 [(aa) “the Board” means—
(i) in relation to 2 [Ayurvedic, Siddha or Unani] drug, the 6 [Ayurvedic,
Siddha and Unani Drugs Technical Advisory Board] constituted under section
33C; and
(ii) in relation to any other drug or cosmetic, the Drugs Technical Advisory
Board constituted under section 5;]
5 [ 7 [(aaa)] “cosmetic” means any article intended to be rubbed, poured,
sprinkled or sprayed on, or introduced into, or otherwise applied to, the
human body or any part thereof for cleansing, beautifying, promoting
attractiveness, or altering the appearance, and includes any article intended
for use as a component of cosmetic 8 [***];]
9 [(b) “drug” includes—
10 [(i) all medicines for internal or external use of human beings or animals
and all substances intended to be used for or in the diagnosis, treatment,
mitigation or prevention of any disease or disorder in human beings or
234\. Subs. by Act 68 of 1982, sec. 37, for certain words (w.e.f. 1-2-1983).
235\. The words “section 32 of” omitted by Act 13 of 1964, sec. 29 (w.e.f.
15-9-1964).
236\. Subs. by Act 68 of 1982, sec. 38, for “the Code of Criminal Procedure,
1898 (5 of 1898)” (w.e.f. 1-2-1983).
237\. Subs. by Act 68 of 1982, sec. 38, for “any Presidency Magistrate or any
Magistrate of the first class” (w.e.f. 1-2-1983).
238\. Subs. by Act 11 of 1955, sec. 16, for section 34 (w.e.f. 15-4-1955).
239\. Ins. by Act 68 of 1982, sec. 39 (w.e.f. 1-2-1983).
240\. Subs. by Act 26 of 2008, sec. 19, for “all offences under this Act”.
241\. Ins. by Act 26 of 2008, sec. 20.
242\. Subs. by Act 11 of 1955, sec. 16, for section 34 (w.e.f. 15-4-1955).
243\. Ins. by Act 26 of 2008, sec. 20.
244\. Subs. by Act 11 of 1955, sec. 16, for section 34 (w.e.f. 15-4-1955).
245\. Ins. by Act 26 of 2008, sec. 20.
246\. Subs. by Act 11 of 1955, sec. 16, for section 34 (w.e.f. 15-4-1955).
for internal or external use for or in the diagnosis, treatment, mitigation or
prevention of 3 [disease or disorder in human beings or animals, and
manufactured] exclusively in accordance with the formulae described in, the
authoritative books of 4 [Ayurvedic, Siddha and Unani Tibb systems of
medicine], specified in the First Schedule;]
5 [(aa) “the Board” means—
(i) in relation to 2 [Ayurvedic, Siddha or Unani] drug, the 6 [Ayurvedic,
Siddha and Unani Drugs Technical Advisory Board] constituted under section
33C; and
(ii) in relation to any other drug or cosmetic, the Drugs Technical Advisory
Board constituted under section 5;]
5 [ 7 [(aaa)] “cosmetic” means any article intended to be rubbed, poured,
sprinkled or sprayed on, or introduced into, or otherwise applied to, the
human body or any part thereof for cleansing, beautifying, promoting
attractiveness, or altering the appearance, and includes any article intended
for use as a component of cosmetic 8 [***];]
9 [(b) “drug” includes—
10 [(i) all medicines for internal or external use of human beings or animals
and all substances intended to be used for or in the diagnosis, treatment,
mitigation or prevention of any disease or disorder in human beings or
234\. Subs. by Act 68 of 1982, sec. 37, for certain words (w.e.f. 1-2-1983).
235\. The words “section 32 of” omitted by Act 13 of 1964, sec. 29 (w.e.f.
15-9-1964).
236\. Subs. by Act 68 of 1982, sec. 38, for “the Code of Criminal Procedure,
1898 (5 of 1898)” (w.e.f. 1-2-1983).
237\. Subs. by Act 68 of 1982, sec. 38, for “any Presidency Magistrate or any
Magistrate of the first class” (w.e.f. 1-2-1983).
238\. Subs. by Act 11 of 1955, sec. 16, for section 34 (w.e.f. 15-4-1955).
239\. Ins. by Act 68 of 1982, sec. 39 (w.e.f. 1-2-1983).
240\. Subs. by Act 26 of 2008, sec. 19, for “all offences under this Act”.
241\. Ins. by Act 26 of 2008, sec. 20.
242\. Subs. by Act 11 of 1955, sec. 16, for section 34 (w.e.f. 15-4-1955).
243\. Ins. by Act 26 of 2008, sec. 20.
244\. Subs. by Act 11 of 1955, sec. 16, for section 34 (w.e.f. 15-4-1955).
245\. Ins. by Act 26 of 2008, sec. 20.
246\. Subs. by Act 11 of 1955, sec. 16, for section 34 (w.e.f. 15-4-1955).
for internal or external use for or in the diagnosis, treatment, mitigation or
prevention of 3 [disease or disorder in human beings or animals, and
manufactured] exclusively in accordance with the formulae described in, the
authoritative books of 4 [Ayurvedic, Siddha and Unani Tibb systems of
medicine], specified in the First Schedule;]
5 [(aa) “the Board” means—
(i) in relation to 2 [Ayurvedic, Siddha or Unani] drug, the 6 [Ayurvedic,
Siddha and Unani Drugs Technical Advisory Board] constituted under section
33C; and
(ii) in relation to any other drug or cosmetic, the Drugs Technical Advisory
Board constituted under section 5;]
5 [ 7 [(aaa)] “cosmetic” means any article intended to be rubbed, poured,
sprinkled or sprayed on, or introduced into, or otherwise applied to, the
human body or any part thereof for cleansing, beautifying, promoting
attractiveness, or altering the appearance, and includes any article intended
for use as a component of cosmetic 8 [***];]
9 [(b) “drug” includes—
10 [(i) all medicines for internal or external use of human beings or animals
and all substances intended to be used for or in the diagnosis, treatment,
mitigation or prevention of any disease or disorder in human beings or
animals, including preparations applied on human body for the purpose of
repelling insects like mosquitoes;]
(ii) such substances (other than food) intended to affect the structure or any
function of the human body or intended to be used for the destruction of 11
[vermin] or insects which cause disease in human beings or animals, as may be
specified from time to time by the Central Government by notification in the
Official Gazette;]
12 [(iii) all substances intended for use as components of a drug including
empty gelatin capsules; and
(iv) such devices* intended for internal or external use in the diagnosis,
treatment, mitigation or prevention of disease or disorder in human beings or
234\. Subs. by Act 68 of 1982, sec. 37, for certain words (w.e.f. 1-2-1983).
235\. The words “section 32 of” omitted by Act 13 of 1964, sec. 29 (w.e.f.
15-9-1964).
236\. Subs. by Act 68 of 1982, sec. 38, for “the Code of Criminal Procedure,
1898 (5 of 1898)” (w.e.f. 1-2-1983).
237\. Subs. by Act 68 of 1982, sec. 38, for “any Presidency Magistrate or any
Magistrate of the first class” (w.e.f. 1-2-1983).
238\. Subs. by Act 11 of 1955, sec. 16, for section 34 (w.e.f. 15-4-1955).
239\. Ins. by Act 68 of 1982, sec. 39 (w.e.f. 1-2-1983).
240\. Subs. by Act 26 of 2008, sec. 19, for “all offences under this Act”.
241\. Ins. by Act 26 of 2008, sec. 20.
242\. Subs. by Act 11 of 1955, sec. 16, for section 34 (w.e.f. 15-4-1955).
243\. Ins. by Act 26 of 2008, sec. 20.
244\. Subs. by Act 11 of 1955, sec. 16, for section 34 (w.e.f. 15-4-1955).
245\. Ins. by Act 26 of 2008, sec. 20.
246\. Subs. by Act 11 of 1955, sec. 16, for section 34 (w.e.f. 15-4-1955).
for internal or external use for or in the diagnosis, treatment, mitigation or
prevention of 3 [disease or disorder in human beings or animals, and
manufactured] exclusively in accordance with the formulae described in, the
authoritative books of 4 [Ayurvedic, Siddha and Unani Tibb systems of
medicine], specified in the First Schedule;]
5 [(aa) “the Board” means—
(i) in relation to 2 [Ayurvedic, Siddha or Unani] drug, the 6 [Ayurvedic,
Siddha and Unani Drugs Technical Advisory Board] constituted under section
33C; and
(ii) in relation to any other drug or cosmetic, the Drugs Technical Advisory
Board constituted under section 5;]
5 [ 7 [(aaa)] “cosmetic” means any article intended to be rubbed, poured,
sprinkled or sprayed on, or introduced into, or otherwise applied to, the
human body or any part thereof for cleansing, beautifying, promoting
attractiveness, or altering the appearance, and includes any article intended
for use as a component of cosmetic 8 [***];]
9 [(b) “drug” includes—
10 [(i) all medicines for internal or external use of human beings or animals
and all substances intended to be used for or in the diagnosis, treatment,
mitigation or prevention of any disease or disorder in human beings or
animals, including preparations applied on human body for the purpose of
repelling insects like mosquitoes;]
(ii) such substances (other than food) intended to affect the structure or any
function of the human body or intended to be used for the destruction of 11
[vermin] or insects which cause disease in human beings or animals, as may be
specified from time to time by the Central Government by notification in the
Official Gazette;]
12 [(iii) all substances intended for use as components of a drug including
empty gelatin capsules; and
(iv) such devices* intended for internal or external use in the diagnosis,
treatment, mitigation or prevention of disease or disorder in human beings or
234\. Subs. by Act 68 of 1982, sec. 37, for certain words (w.e.f. 1-2-1983).
235\. The words “section 32 of” omitted by Act 13 of 1964, sec. 29 (w.e.f.
15-9-1964).
236\. Subs. by Act 68 of 1982, sec. 38, for “the Code of Criminal Procedure,
1898 (5 of 1898)” (w.e.f. 1-2-1983).
237\. Subs. by Act 68 of 1982, sec. 38, for “any Presidency Magistrate or any
Magistrate of the first class” (w.e.f. 1-2-1983).
238\. Subs. by Act 11 of 1955, sec. 16, for section 34 (w.e.f. 15-4-1955).
239\. Ins. by Act 68 of 1982, sec. 39 (w.e.f. 1-2-1983).
240\. Subs. by Act 26 of 2008, sec. 19, for “all offences under this Act”.
241\. Ins. by Act 26 of 2008, sec. 20.
242\. Subs. by Act 11 of 1955, sec. 16, for section 34 (w.e.f. 15-4-1955).
243\. Ins. by Act 26 of 2008, sec. 20.
244\. Subs. by Act 11 of 1955, sec. 16, for section 34 (w.e.f. 15-4-1955).
245\. Ins. by Act 26 of 2008, sec. 20.
246\. Subs. by Act 11 of 1955, sec. 16, for section 34 (w.e.f. 15-4-1955).
