Income Tax Appellate Tribunal - Bangalore
M/S Indecomm Global Services ... vs Deputy Commissioner Of Income Tax ... on
28 August, 2019
                                                    IT(TP)A No.185(B)/2018
                                     1
              IN THE INCOME TAX APPELLATE TRIBUNAL
                 BANGALORE BENCHES : "B", BANGALORE
      BEFORE SHRI J. SUDHAKAR REDDY, ACCOUNTANT MEMBER
                             AND
                SMT.BEENA PILLAI, JUDICAL MEMBER
                        ITA No.185(Bang)/2018
                      (Assessment Year : 2012-13)
    M/s Indecomm Global Services (India) Pvt.Ltd.,
    11-12/1, 4th Floor, Maruthi Infotech Center Block A,
    Amarjyothi Layout, Off.Intermediate Ring Road,
    Domlur, Bangalore
    PANNo.AABCB6817E                                          Appellant
                                       Vs
    The Deputy Commissioner of Income tax,
    Cirle-3(1)(1), R.No.227,2nd Floor,
consequential in nature and therefore do not require adjudication.
13\. In the result appeal filed by assessee stands allowed partly for
statistical purposes.
Order pronounced in the open court on 28-08-2019 Sd/- Sd/-
    (J.SUDHAKAR REDDY)                                   (BEENA PILLAI)
    ACCOUNTANT MEMBER                                 JUDICIAL MEMBER
    Dated: the 28th August, 2019.
    *am
                                            IT(TP)A No.185(B)/2018
                                      31
    Copy of the Order forwarded to:
    1.Appellant;
    2.Respondent;
    3.CIT;
    4.CIT(A);
    5. DR
    Cirle-3(1)(1), R.No.227,2nd Floor,
    BMTC Building, 80ft Road, 6th Block,
    Koramangala,
    Bangalore-560 095                                      Respondent
              Appellant by : Shri K.R.Vasudevan, Advocate
              Revenue by : Shri R.N.Siddappaji, Addl.CIT
                    Date of hearing : 17-07-2019
          Date of pronouncement :     28-09-2019
                                ORDER
PER BEENA PILLAI, JUDICIAL MEMBER :
Present appeal has been filed by assessee against order dated 23/11/17 passed
by Ld. CIT (A)-3, Bangalore for assessment year 2012-13 on following grounds
of appeal:
IT(TP)A No.185(B)/2018  2 The grounds mentioned hereinafter are without
prejudice to one another.
A. Transfer Pricing
1\. The learned Assessing Officer ("learned AO"), learned Transfer Pricing
Officer ("learned TPO") and the Honourable Commissioner of Income Tax
(Appeals) ["Hon'ble CIT(A)"] has grossly erred in law and facts of the case in
proposing a transfer pricing adjustment under Section 92CA of the Income-tax
Act, 1961("the Act") towards the provision of software development and IT
enabled services by the Appellant.
2\. The learned AO/learned TPO/Hon'ble CIT(A) has erred in rejecting the TP
documentation maintained by the Appellant by invoking provisions of sub-
section (3) of 92C of the Act.
3\. The learned AO/learned TPO/Hon'ble CIT(A) has erred in rejecting
comparability analysis carried in the TP documentation and in conducting a
fresh comparability analysis by introducing various filters while determining
the Arm's Length Price ("ALP").
4\. IT Enabled Services ("ITeS") Segment:
4.1 The learned AO/learned TPO/Hon'ble CIT(A) has erred in not considering the
previous two years financial data of the comparable companies while
determining the ALP.
4.2 The learned AO/learned TPO/Hon'ble CIT(A) has erred in not applying the
upper limit on turnover while selecting the comparable companies.
4.3 The learned AO/learned TPO/Hon'ble CIT(A) has erred in applying different
financial year ending filter while selecting the comparable companies.
4.4 The learned AO/learned TPO/Hon'ble CIT(A) has erred in completely relying
on the unaudited data requisitioned and consequently obtained by taking
recourse to the provisions of Section 133(6) of the Act.
4.5 The learned AO/learned TPO/Hon'ble CIT(A) has erred in applying export
earning filter of 75% instead of IT(TP)A No.185(B)/2018  3 25% of the total
sales, leading to a narrower comparable set.
4.6 The learned AO/learned TPO/Hon'ble CIT(A) has grossly erred in not
rejecting the following companies from the list of comparable companies.
 Universal Print Systems Ltd.
 Infosys BPO Ltd.
 TCS E-Serve Ltd.
 BNR Udyog Ltd.
 Excel Infoways Ltd.
4.7 The learned AO/learned TPO/Hon'ble CIT(A) has grossly erred in rejecting
companies that ought to have been included as comparables:
 ICRA Online Ltd.
 Tech Process Solutions Ltd.
 Cameo Corporate Services Ltd.
 Crystal Voxx Ltd.
 Informed Technologies India Ltd.
4.8 The learned CIT(A) while aptly confirming the functional similarity of
Accentia Technologies Ltd. with the Appellant, erred in:
 stating that if the comparable company gets excluded by higher Appellate
authorities in the Appellant's appeal for AY 2011-12 on the ground of
functional dissimilarity, the same would apply to the year under consideration
and would thereby require exclusion of the comparable in AY 2012-13.
 not considering the fact that transfer pricing requires examining the
profile of the comparable companies year on year basis and that the ruling of
one Assessment year cannot automatically apply to another Assessment Year, 4.9
The learned AO/learned TPO/Hon'ble CIT(A) has erred in allowing negative
working capital adjustment to the ITES segment of the Appellant.
4.10 The learned AO/learned TPO/Hon'ble CIT(A) has erred in not allowing
appropriate adjustment towards to the risk differential existing between the
appellant vis-à-vis independent comparable companies.
IT(TP)A No.185(B)/2018  4 5.1 The learned AO/learned TPO/ Hon'ble CIT(A) has
erred in re-characterizing the loans & advances and receivables outstanding as
on 31 March 2012 as a loan given to the AEs by the Appellant.
5.2 The learned AO/learned TPO has erred in arbitrarily imputing interest on
the outstanding balances from the AEs for more than six months with an
interest rate of 16.85 percent.
5.3 The learned AO/learned TPO/learned CIT(A) has erred in ignoring the fact
that the Appellant followed the same credit/interest policy on the balance
receivable from the Non-AEs as well.
5.4 The learned CIT(A) has erred in imputing interest on the outstanding
balances from the AEs for more than 30 days and in directing the learned
AO/learned TPO to work out the adjustment on account of interest on such
outstanding amounts.
5.5 The learned CIT(A) has erred in ignoring the fact that the credit period
provided in relation to outstanding receivables as on 31 March 2012 to Non-AEs
are greater than that of AEs.
5.6 Without prejudice to the argument of the Appellant in Ground no. 4.9
above, the learned AO/learned TPO/learned CIT(A) has erred in imputing the
interest on receivable outstanding as 31 March 2012 when the learned TPO had
already done the negative working capital adjustment to the companies proposed
as comparable by adjusting the difference in the credit period between the
Appellant and those comparables.
5.7 Without prejudice to the argument of the Appellant in Ground no. 4.9, the
learned AO/learned TPO/learned CIT(A) has erred in imputing the interest on
receivable balances specifically arising out of provision of software
development services by Indecomm India when the learned TPO post considering
the working capital adjusted margins of comparable companies had already
concluded the operating margin of Indecomm India with respect to such services
is at arm's length.
6.The learned AO has erred in in levying interest U/s 234B Section 234C of the
Act, which is consequential in nature to the above grounds of appeal.
IT(TP)A No.185(B)/2018  5 The appellant craves leave to add, alter, rescind
and modify the grounds herein above or produce further documents, facts and
evidence before or at the time of hearing of this appeal.
For the above and any other grounds which may be raised at the time of
hearing, it is prayed that necessary relief may be provided.
2\. Brief facts of the case are as under:
Assessee filed its return of income on 30/11/12 declaring total income of
Rs.18,86,56,470/-. The case was selected for scrutiny and notice under section
143(2) was served upon assessee in response to which representative of
assessee appeared before Ld.AO and filed requisite details as called for.
Ld.AO observed that assessee is engaged in the business of Software
Development and Information Technology Enabled Services and that assessee
entered into international transaction with its associated enterprise. A
reference was accordingly made to Ld.TPO under section 92CA of the Act. Upon
receipt of reference, Ld.TPO called upon assessee to file economic details of
international transaction entered into by assessee in Form-3CEB. Ld.TPO
observed that assessee had following international transaction:
                    International Transaction                    Value (INR)
       Software and related services                                    52,82,25,923
       IT enabled services                                              19,75,88,112
       Reimbursement of expenses                                             16,96,997
       Recovery of expenses                                              2,49,64,340
       Balance of receivable                                            36,33,20,298
It has been submitted that Ld.TPO disputed arms length price determined by
assessee for ITeS segment, the details of which are as under.
IT(TP)A No.185(B)/2018  6 ITeS Segment:
2.1 Assessee used TNMM as most appropriate method with PLI as OP/OC and
determined margin of assessee at 16.39%. Assessee selected following 9
comparables with an average margin of 12.50% and thus held the transaction
with AE under this segment to be at arms length.
                                                              Unadjusted average
              #                          Company Name
                                                               margin - 3 years
             1.         Informed Technologies India Limited                14.00%
             2.         Jindal Intellicom Limited                          13.27%
             3.         Accentia Technologies                              24.99%
             4.         ICRA Online Ltd.                                   24.01%
             5.         Cameo Corporate Services Ltd.                      10.06%
             6.         In House Productions                               10.33%
             7.         Cosmic Global                                      11.27%
             8.         Wisec Global Ltd.                                   0.14%
             9.         Techprocess Solutions Ltd.                          4.40%
                        Arithmetic Mean                                    12.50%
2.2 Ld.TPO rejected analysis carried out by assessee and undertook fresh
search by applying various filters and shortlisted following 10 comparables
with an average margin of 28.11%:
     #             Company Name
     1.   Accentia Technologies Ltd.                                           11.75%
     2.   Universal Print Systems Ltd.                                         52.46%
     3.   Informed Technologies Ltd.                                               6.08%
     4.   Infosys BPO Ltd.                                                     36.30%
    P5.   Jindal Intellicom Ltd.                                                   -0.05%
     6.   Microgenetic Systems Ltd.                                            19.61%
     7.   TCS E-Service Ltd.                                                   63.69%
     8.   BNR Udyog Ltd.                                                       41.58%
     9.   Excel Infoways Ltd.                                                  29.79%
    10.   E4E Healthcare Services Pvt. Ltd.                                    19.85%
          AVERAGE                                                              28.11%
He thus proposed an adjustment of Rs.2,74,17,877/- under ITeS.
IT(TP)A No.185(B)/2018  7 2.3 Ld.TPO further computed interest on receivables
exceeding 6 months at 16.85% and proposed adjustment being interest chargeable
at Rs. 39, 72, 148/-.
Thus total adjustment proposed by Ld. TPO was as under ITES Rs.2,74,17,877/-
    Interest chargeable                                  Rs. 39,72,148/-
    Total adjustment                                       Rs.3,13,90,025/-
3\. Aggrieved by proposed adjustment, assessee preferred appeal before Ld.CIT
(A) who upheld view of Ld.TPO.
4\. Aggrieved by order of Ld. CIT (A) assessee is in appeal before us now.
Ld.AR submitted that Ground No. 1-3 are general in nature and therefore do not
require any adjudication.
Ground No.4 - 4.10 are in respect of in appropriate comparables
excluded/included by Ld. CIT (A). Ld.AR placed before us a chart wherein
assessee seeks to exclude/include following comparables: Comparables sought to
be excluded:
 Universal Print Systems Ltd (segmental) (BPO)  Infosys BPO Ltd  TCS
E-Serve Ltd  BNR Udyog Ltd (segment) (medical transcription)  Excel Infoways
Ltd (segmental) (IT) (BPO) Comparables sought for inclusion  Informed
Technologies India Ltd Before we undertake the fact comparable it a analysis
it is sine qua non to understand functions performed assets owned and risk
assumed by assessee under ITeS segment:
Functions IT(TP)A No.185(B)/2018  8 In TP study, it has been submitted that
assessee provides back- office support services to its AE.
Assessee provides routine back and support services in the mortgage industry
vertical. It is recorded in TP study that assessee is entrusted with job of
calculating fees for various zones after taking into consideration specific
regulations of particulars state and other para meters. The fee calculator is
inbuilt in the system and assessee is required to only input specific para
meters into the system to calculate the fees. The TP study also reports that
mortgage division verifies various deeds and documents required in mortgage
process for clients based in USA. It is submitted that client sends across
scanned documents were verification to AE, which are then uploaded on server
of the AE. Assessee is then required to login to the server and verify the
same. All server and applications are based out of AEs office in USA. In the
tabular form the TP study reports that assessee carries out executing the work
under guidelines of AE. Assessee is also involved in identification of
manpower requirement, recruitment of manpower. Assets employed It has been
submitted that assessee do not own any non-routine intangibles and accordingly
does not own trade secrets or undertake research and development activities on
its account that would lead to development of non-routine intangibles.
Intangible assets employed by assessee are furniture and fixtures vehicles,
case of its equipments, computers and accessories and electrical fittings etc.
Risks assumed IT(TP)A No.185(B)/2018  9 Assessee provides services on a cost
plus model and is not affected by factors such as non availability of markets
of for rendering services, reliability of customers, fluctuations in demand
etc. The primary risk market lies with the AE, as it is responsible for
providing final services to end customer. Assessee is though responsible for
quality of services to be delivered to its AE and has to meet specifications
laid down by AE in the work order, however AE bears final responsibility of
quality of services towards the client. Thus, it has been submitted that
assessee do not even bear any service risk.
Thus assessee has been characterised under this segment as a contract service
provider rendering routine back office services and bearing minimal risk with
assured returns from its AE. Based upon the above FAR analysis of assessee, we
shall consider comparables alleged by assessee for exclusion/inclusion.
Comparables sought to be excluded:
1\. Universal Print Systems Ltd (segmental) (BPO) Assessee sought to exclude
this comparable for the reason that, it fails employee cost filter and has
insufficient company information. It is also been submitted that, functionally
this company is providing integrated print solution to its customers and does
not provides routine ITeS services like that of assessee. It has been
submitted that this company is not a captive service provider like that of
assessee and has products sale as well as services sale, which is evident from
page 335 of paper book (Index for Annual Reports).
IT(TP)A No.185(B)/2018  10 4.1 Ld.CIT DR placed reliance upon orders of
authorities below and submitted that this comparable is functionally
comparable with that of assessee.
5\. We have heard submissions advanced by both sides in light of record placed
before us. On perusal of annual report of this company placed in paper book,
we are of considered opinion that this comparable is basically into sale of
products and services unlike a captive service provider such as assessee, who
works on cost plus basis, providing services only to its AE's. It is also
observed that this comparable is basically providing BPO services from its
Prepress units. In written submission filed, assessee placed reliance upon
decision of this Tribunal in case of Zyme Solutions Pvt Ltd., vs ACIT reported
in (2019) 101 taxman.com 292, wherein this comparable has been excluded by
observing as under:
10.4 We heard rival submissions and perused the material on record. The issue
of comparability of Universal Print Systems Ltd. with that of the assessee-
company has been duly considered by TPO after referring to information
contained in Annual Report. The relevant findings of the TPO had not been
countenanced by learned AR of the assessee. However, the issue of
comparability of Universal Print Systems Ltd. has also been considered by the
co-ordinate bench of this Tribunal in the case of CGI Information Systems &
Management Consultants Pvt. Ltd. (supra) wherein it was held as follows:
'47. The next submission of the learned counsel for the Assessee was with
regard to exclusion of 2 comparable companies from the list of 7 comparable
companies that remain after the order of the DRP. The first comparable company
sought to be excluded is Universal Print Systems Ltd. This company was chosen
as a comparable company by the TPO. In reply to the proposal of the TPO to
include this company as a comparable company, the Assessee vide its letter
dated 22.12.2015 had pointed out its objections to including this company as a
comparable company. A IT(TP)A No.185(B)/2018  11 copy of the said objection is
at page-785 of the Assessee's paper book. The Assessee pointed out that the
OP/TC of this company as worked out by the TPO at 59.40% was wrong and
unallocated costs as per the annual report should be allocated to BPO segment
and if that is done then the OP/TC of this company will be only 51.80%. The
Assessee further pointed out (Page 764 of paper book) that the TPO had applied
revenue filter of more than 75% being from non-financial service income. The
Assessee pointed out that the percentage of income from ITES was only 21.63%
of the total revenue from operations of this company as per its annual report.
The Assessee also pointed out that in the Pre-press BPO segment this company
was providing integrated print solutions to its customers, which includes
scanning, design/layout, trapping, hand-outlined clipping path and image
masking and magazine and catalogue publishing. The Assessee submitted that the
aforesaid services are not in the nature of ITES. The Assessee pointed out
that as per the safe harbour rules introduced by the CBDT ITES has been
defined as business process outsourcing services provided mainly with the
assistance or use of information technology. It was also submitted that this
company does not satisfy the definition of ITES as contained in Rule IOTA(e)
of the Rules. Since use of information technology is absent .in the various
services provided by this company, it cannot be regarded as ITES company. The
Assessee also submitted that this company fails the employee cost filter. The
employee cost filter requires that the employees cost incurred by the company
must be more than 25% of its revenue.
48\. The TPO at page-20 of his order has dealt with the above objections by
observing as follows:
(a) Pre-Press BPO unit provides back office support services.
(b) This company has four major segments viz., Repro, Label Printing, Offset
Printing and pre-press BPO. The employee cost of pre-press BPO was more than
25% of the revenue from pre- press BPO and therefore the employee cost filter
is satisfied in the case of this company.
(c) On the service revenue filter viz., the requirement that a comparable
company must have revenue from rendering services of more than 75% of its
total revenue, the TPO again held that the pre-press BPO segment's entire
income is from services and therefore this objection is not to be accepted
IT(TP)A No.185(B)/2018  12
49\. On objections by the Assessee before the DRP, the DRP confirmed the
action of the TPO. One of the objection before the DRP was that this company
did not figure in the list of companies engaged in ITES. On this objection the
DRP held that though this company did not figure in the list of companies in
ITES in the main search of capital line and prowess database but on a
segmental search these two companies satisfied the requirement of being
considered as companies engaged in providing ITES.
50\. Aggrieved by the directions of the DRP, the Assessee is in appeal before
the Tribunal. The learned counsel for the Assessee reiterated submissions that
were made before the TPO/DRP. In particular it was submitted that the service
revenue filter was applied by the TPO himself at the entity level and on such
search this company was not regarded as engaged in providing ITES. At this
stage the TPO ought to have dropped this company as a comparable company
because this filter has to be applied at the entity level and not at the
segmental level. The learned DR submitted that if the service revenue filter
is applied at the segmental level there can be no objection by the Assessee.
She relied on the order of the DRP/TPQ.
51\. The requirements of Rule 10B(1)(2) & (3) of the Rules in the matter of
comparability of companies under TNMM needs to be seen. The same reads as
follows:
"10B. (1) For the purposes, of sub-section (2) of section 92C, the arm's
length price in relation to an international transaction shall be determined
by any of the following methods, being the most appropriate method, in the
following manner, namely:--
(a) to (d)
(e) transactional-margin method, by which,
(i) the net profit margin realised by the enterprise from an international
transaction entered into with an associated enterprise is computed in relation
to costs incurred or sales effected or assets employed or to be employed by
the enterprise or having regard to any other relevant base;
(ii) the net profit margin realised by the enterprise or by an unrelated
enterprise from a comparable uncontrolled transaction or a number of such
transactions is computed having regard to the same base;
IT(TP)A No.185(B)/2018  13
(iii) the net profit margin referred to in sub-clause (if) arising in
comparable uncontrolled transactions is adjusted to take into account the
differences, if any, between the international transaction and the comparable
uncontrolled transactions, or between the enterprises entering into such
transactions, which could materially affect the amount of net profit margin in
the open market;
(iv) the net profit margin realised by the enterprise and referred to in sub-
clause (i) is established to be the same as the net profit margin referred to
in sub-clause (iii);
(v) the net profit margin thus established is then taken into account to
arrive at an arm's length price in relation to the international transaction.
(2) For the purposes of sub-rule (1), the comparability of an international
transaction with an uncontrolled transaction shall be judged with reference to
the following, namely:--
(a) the specific characteristics of the property transferred or services
provided in either transaction;
(b) the functions performed, taking into account assets employed or to be
employed and the risks assumed, by the respective parties to the transactions;
(c ) the contractual terms (whether or not such terms are formal or in
writing) of the transactions which lay down explicitly or implicitly how the
responsibilities, risks and benefits are to be divided between the respective
parties to the transactions;
(d) conditions prevailing in the markets in which the respective parties to
the transactions operate, including the geographical location and size of the
markets, the laws and Government orders in force, costs of labour and capital
in the markets, overall economic development and level of competition and
whether the markets are wholesale or retail (3) An uncontrolled transaction
shall be comparable to an international transaction if--
(i) none of the differences, if any, between the transactions being compared,
or between the enterprises entering into such transactions are likely to
materially affect the price or cost charged or paid in, or the profit arising
from, such transactions in the open market;
IT(TP)A No.185(B)/2018  14 or
(ii) reasonably accurate adjustments can be made to eliminate the material
effects of such differences."
52\. There appears to be no bar in the Rules referred to above to considering
segmental data under TNMM because the comparison is of "net profit margin
realized by the enterprise from an international transaction" with the "net
profit realized from a comparable uncontrolled transaction". Therefore
comparison is of similar transaction. When segmental information is available
and is not disputed, it cannot be argued that filters have to be applied at
entity level. It cannot be argued that when the TPO himself applied the
filters at the entity level he was not entitled to apply the filters at
segmental level. As we have already stated if clear segmental information is
available the filters can be applied at the segmental level in TNMM. Therefore
the objection with regard to this company failing the employee cost filter and
service revenue filter in our view was rightly rejected by the TPO and DRP. It
is however seen that this company has four segments viz., Repro. Label
Printing, Offset Printing and Pre-press BPO. Whether the label printing and
offset printing segments supplement the functions performed in the Pre- press
BPO segment has to be seen. We therefore set aside the order of the DRP in
this regard and remand for fresh consideration by the TPO the comparability of
this company. In terms of Rule 10B(3) of the rules the profit margins of Pre-
Press BPO have to be adjusted taking into account the fact that two other
segments supplement the pre- press BPO segment. If such adjustment cannot be
reasonably or accurately made then this company has to be excluded from the
list of comparable companies. The TPO for this purpose can use his powers u/s.
133(6) of the Act to get required details from this company. As far as the
argument that this company fails functional comparability, we find that none
of the objections raised by the Assessee in this regard about lack of
information about allied services performed by the pre-press BPO segment of
this company and the break-up of the revenue from such allied services have
been dealt with specifically by the TPO or DRP. Since the comparability of
this company is being remanded to be TPO for consideration of adjustments as
mentioned above, the objection with regard to functional comparability should
also be looked into by the TPO in the remand proceedings on the basis of
materials which he may gather u/s. 133(6) of the Act, The Assessee should be
given opportunity of being heard by the TPO before the issue is decided by the
TPO.' IT(TP)A No.185(B)/2018  15 Respectfully following the decision, we
remand this comparable to the file of the TPO/AO for fresh adjudication on the
above lines. Respectfully following aforesaid decision, we remand this
comparable to file of Ld.AO/TPO, for fresh adjudication, on the basis of
directions reproduced hereinabove. Needless to say that proper opportunity
shall be granted to assessee as per law.
Accordingly we set aside this comparable back to Ld.TPO.
2\. Infosys BPO Ltd.
Assessee objected for inclusion of this comparable primarily on the basis of
functional incompatibility and presence of intangibles. It has been submitted
that this company owns huge brand and not a fit comparables for company like
assessee, who provide captive service to its AE's.
Ld.CIT DR opposed the exclusion and placed reliance upon orders passed by
authorities below.
6\. We have perused submissions advanced by both sides in the light of the
records placed before us. Assessee placed reliance upon decision of this
Tribunal in case of Zyme Solutions Pvt Ltd., vs ACIT vide order dated 28/06/19
in ITA (TP) a No. 1661/Bang/2016, wherein this comparable has been excluded by
observing as under:
'5. We have heard the rival submissions on the comparability of Infosys BPO as
a comparable company. The Delhi ITAT in the case of Baxter India Pvt. Ltd. Vs.
ACIT ITA No.6158/Del/2016 for AY 2012-13 in the case of a company rendering
ITES such as the Assessee, vide order dated 24.8.2017 Paragraph 23 held that
Infosys BPO is not comparable with a company rendering ITES for the following
reasons:- "23. In so far as exclusion of Infosys BPO Ltd. is concerned, we
find from the submissions made by the assessee before the Assessing
Officer/TPO/DRP is that Infosys BPO Ltd. is predominantly into areas like
Insurance, Banking, Financial Services, Manufacturing and Telecom which are in
the niche areas, IT(TP)A No.185(B)/2018  16 unlike the assessee. Further it
was also submitted that the Infosys BPQ Ltd. comprises brand value which will
tend to influence its business operation and the pricing policy thereby
directly impacting the margins earned by the Infosys BPO Ltd.. We find the
submissions of the ld. counsel for the assessee before TPO/DRP that in order
to maintain the brand image of Infosys BPQ Ltd. in the market, the company
incurs substantial selling and marketing expenditure whereas the assessee
being a contract service provider does not incur such expenses to maintain its
brand has not been controverted by them. Further, Infosys BPO Ltd. being a
subsidiary of Infosys has an element of brand value associated with it. This
can be further confirmed by the presence of brand related expenses incurred by
Infosys BPO Ltd. Further, Infosys BPO Ltd. has acquired Australian based
company M/s Portland Group Pty Ltd. during financial year 2011-12. They
provide sourcing and category management services in Sydney, Australia.
Therefore, this company also failed the TPO's own filter of rejecting
companies with peculiar circumstances. In view of the above i.e. functionally
not comparable, presence of brand and extraordinary event that has taken place
during the year on account of acquisition of Australian based company, we are
of the considered opinion that Infosys BPO Ltd. should not be included in the
list of comparables. We accordingly direct the Assessing Officer/TPO to
exclude Infosys BPO Ltd. from the list of comparables for the purpose of
computing the average margin."
It was also brought to our notice that the Hon'ble Delhi High Court in ITA
No.260/2018 in the appeal filed by the Revenue against the aforesaid order
dismissed the appeal at the admission stage observing that rationale given by
the ITAT for exclusion was correct. In view of the aforesaid decision, we
direct exclusion of Infosys BPO from the list of comparable companies chosen
by the TPO. From above, it is clear that this company is functionally not
comparable with captive service provider.
Respectfully following the same we direct this company to be excluded from the
list of comparables.
3\. TCS e-Serve Ltd.
Ld.AR submitted that this company has been objected by assessee for its
functional dissimilarity as it renders both BPO and KPO IT(TP)A No.185(B)/2018
17 services without segmental reporting. It is submitted that this company
owns huge brand of TATA group and has also incurred brand related expenses and
therefore cannot be accepted to be compared with a captive service provider
like assessee. Ld.CIT DR on the contrary opposed its exclusion and placed
reliance upon orders passed by authorities below.
7\. We have perused submissions advanced by both sides in light of records
placed before us. Assessee placed reliance upon following decisions in support
of its argument for exclusion of this comparable:
 Zyme Solutions Pvt Ltd. vs ACIT (supra)  Baxter India Pvt. Ltd vs ACIT
reported in (2017) 85 Taxmann.com  285 (Delhi-Trib)  PCIT vs BC Management
Services Pvt. Ltd. reported in TS-948- HC-
 2017 (Del)-TP It is observed that this comparable has been excluded by this
Tribunal. Assessee placed reliance upon decision of this Tribunal in case of
Zyme Solutions Pvt Ltd., vs ACIT reported in (2019) 101 taxman.com 292, by
observing as under:
"11.3 We have heard rival submissions and perused material on record. The
issue of comparability of this company was considered by the co-ordinate bench
of Tribunal in the case of XLHealth Corpn. India (P.) Ltd. (supra). The
relevant findings of the Tribunal are as under:
> " . . . We have heard the rival submissions and perused the material on
> record. From the perusal of the Annual Report of this entity placed at page
> Nos. 583 to 678 of paper book, at page No. 604 it is stated as under.
> "2. COMPANY OVERVIEW IT(TP)A No.185(B)/2018  18 Your Company, along with its
> subsidiary companies - TCS e-Serve International Limited and TCS e-Serve
> America Inc., is primarily engaged in the business of providing Business
> Process Services (BPO) for its customers in Banking, Financial Services and
> Insurance domain. The Company's operations include delivering core business
> processing services, analytics & insights (KPO) and support services for
> both data and voice processes.
> Your Company is an integral part of the Tata Consultancy Services' (TCS)
> strategy to build on its 'Full Services Offerings' that offer global
> customers an integrated portfolio of services ranging from IT services to
> BPO services.
> The Company provides its services from various processing facilities, backed
> t) a robust and scalable infrastructure network tailored to meet clients'
> needs. A detailed Business Continuity Plan has also been put in place to
> ensure the services are provided to the customers without any disruptions."
> Thus, this company is also stated to be a K n o wl e d g e Process
> Outsourcing and therefore for reasons stated by us wh ile dealing with this
> issue of comparability of the company Infosys BPO Ltd. shall equally hold
> good and th e r e f o r e we d ir e c t th e A O / T P O to e x c l u d e th
> is c o mp an y from : list of compar ables.' Since the appellant company is
> into lo w end BPO, it cannot be compared with KPO service provider.
11.4 Respectfully following the decision of the co-ordinate bench of Tribunal,
we direct for exclusion this company from the list of comparable". It has been
observed that this company is into high-end KPO services and an assessee
rendering low end BPO services cannot be compared with it. Further, this
company has been excluded due to absence of segmental information.
Respectfully following aforesaid decision, we direct Ld.TPO to exclude this
company from the list of comparables.
IT(TP)A No.185(B)/2018  19
5.BNR Udyog Ltd. (segmental) Ld.AR submitted that this company fails RPT
filter and also fails export filter applied by Ld.TPO. It is submitted that
this company is into medical transcription, coding, business support services
and e- governance projects and therefore functionally not similar with that of
assessee.
Ld. CIT DR however contended that this company is compared only for segment of
medical transcription and therefore should not be excluded. She placed
reliance upon decision of this Tribunal in case of Mobily Infotech India (P)
Ltd vs DCIT reported in (2018) 97 taxman.com 2 in support.
8\. We have perused submissions advanced by both sides in the light of the
records placed before us.
Assessee is challenging functional dissimilarity of this company with that of
assessee as it is into medical transcription. We have our reservation to
consider medical transcription services to be one of KPO services. In our
considered opinion medical transcription services is basically back-office
services provided by graduates who are trained for short period of 6 months to
one year. These are short crash courses undertaken by graduates who are
trained to understand and speak English. There is no value addition in the
services rendered by people in medical transcription. To our understanding,
basically these people who carry out medical transcription services are
trained to understand language spoken by doctors, outside India to whom
medical reports of patience are sent for expert opinion. Medical
transcriptionist simply reproduces opinion expressed by Doctor, which is then
communicated to the patients.
IT(TP)A No.185(B)/2018  20 It is observed from annual report placed at page
223 of paper book (Index to Annual Reports) that this company has segmental
information of medical transcription and revenue earned under this segment is
Rs.147.40 Lacs. It is also been observed that various other decisions by co-
ordinate Benches of this tribunal has remanded this comparable back to Ld.TPO,
for proper analysis and fresh consideration. We draw support for same from
Indegene (P) Ltd vs ACIT reported in (2017) 85 Taxmann.com 60, wherein it has
been held as under:
"9.3.1. We have heard the rival contentions and perused and carefully
considered the material on record including the judicial pronouncements cited.
From the details on record we observe that while the assessee has contended
that the services rendered by this company M/s TCS E-serve Ltd are high end
KPO services, it has not brought out as to which of these are the services
that would come under technical services. On the other hand, w also notice
that that the TPO has held all the services rendered by the assessee to be BPO
services with any proper analysis. In this factual matrix of the case, we find
that on similar facts, the co-ordinate Bench o ITAT Bangalore in the case of
Indegene (P) Ltd., (supra) has remanded the matter of comparability of this
company to the file of the TPO for fresh consideration. In view of the factual
matrix of the case on hand, as laid out above and following the decision of
the co-ordinate Bench in the case of Indegene (P) Ltd. (Supra) which is also
rendered on similar facts, we deem it appropriate to remand the matter of the
comparability of this company, TCS E-serve Ltd. To the file of the TPO for
fresh consideration in the light of out abov observations. Needless IT(TP)A
No.185(B)/2018  21 to add, the TPO shall afford the assessee adequate
opportunity of being heard and to file details/submissions in this regard. It
is also been observed that similar view has been taken by decision of this
Tribunal in case of M/s Nielson Sports India Pvt.Ltd., Vs ACIT in IT(TP)A
No.196(B))/2017 vide order dated 28- 06-2019.
Respectfully following the same, we set aside this comparable back to Ld.TPO
for considering it afresh. Needless to say that proper opportunity shall be
granted to assessee as per law. Accordingly we set aside this comparable back
to Ld.TPO
6\. Excel Infoways Ltd. (segmental) This comparable selected by Ld.TPO is
alleged to be functionally not comparable with assessee, as it is handling
business relations and managing customer relationships. It has been submitted
by Ld.AR that this comparable fails employee cost filter.
Ld.CIT DR however contended that this company is compared only for segment of
medical transcription and therefore should not be excluded. She placed
reliance upon decision of this Tribunal in case of Mobily Infotech India (P)
Ltd vs DCIT reported in (2018) 97 taxman.com 2 in support.
9\. We have perused submissions advanced by both sides in light of records
placed before us. Annual report of this company is placed at page 273 of paper
book (Index for Annual Reports). In the Significant Accounting Policies
reported at page 308 of paper book, it is observed that these companies
operating businesses are organized and managed separately, according to nature
of business and services provided with each segment, representing different
strategic business unit. Note 15 at page 312 to refers to revenues IT(TP)A
No.185(B)/2018  22 from operations under the head information technology/BPO
related services separately. It is observed that the function performed by
this company as reported at page 285 reveals that it is engaged in business of
providing customer care services and handling client business relations on
their behalf by maintaining relation with customers and also providing
services by assisting in managing the workflow and updating the records. It is
observed that this Tribunal in case of Zyme Solutions Pvt Ltd., vs ACIT vide
order dated 28/06/19 in ITA (TP) a No. 1661/Bang/2016, this comparable is
excluded by observing as under: "The third and last company that is sought to
be excluded from the list of comparable companies is Exclusion of Excel Info
Ltd. The Tribunal had retained this company as a comparable company in its
original order. The assessee sought exclusion of this company on the ground
that this company was functionally different from the assessee company and the
employee cost to the revenue was less than the threshold limit of 25% and that
there were peculiar economic circumstances which impacted the profit margin of
this company thereby rendering this company as not comparable company. The
Tribunal while adjudicating of exclusion of this company in paragraph 14.3 of
its order held that on application of employee cost filter that the Assessee
has failed to show as to how the findings of the TPO and DRP are not correct.
2\. The assessee has pointed out certain facts with regard to employee cost
and diminishing revenue of this company which takes it out of the
comparability and these aspects have not been considered by the Tribunal in
its order. On the above objections in the MA, the Tribunal held as follows:-
"8. We have examined the contents in the misc. petition and we find that there
has been omission to consider the application of employee cost filter by the
Tribunal though attention of the Bench was invited to relevant pages pointed
out in the misc. petition. We do not however agree with the assessee that
functional comparability of this company has not been examined by the Tribunal
in paragraph 14.4. The Tribunal has come to the conclusion that this company
is a ITeS company and that cannot be reviewed in the misc. application.
However there has been omission to IT(TP)A No.185(B)/2018  23 adjudicated
exclusion of this company on account of extraordinary events. We therefore
recall the order of the Tribunal to the limited extent of examining of the
employee cost filter and the presence of extraordinary events on warranty
exclusion of this company."
3\. We have heard the rival submissions on the exclusion of this company on
the basis of extraordinary events that occurred during the relevant previous
year which had impact on the profit margin of this company and therefore
rendering this company from being chosen as a comparable company. The Delhi
ITAT in the case of BT e-Serve (India) Ltd. Vs. ITO ITA No.6690/Del/2016 for
AY 2012-13 order dated 19.6.2018 considered the comparability of this company
and came to the conclusion in paragraph 5.4 of its order that there was
abnormal volatility of revenue of this company from 2009-10 to 2014-15 and
therefore this company should not be regarded as comparable company.
Respectfully following the aforesaid decision, we direct exclusion of the
aforesaid company from the list of comparable companies chosen by the TPO.
It is observed from order passed by Ld.TPO at page 10 that assessee objected
this company that employee cost filter being more than 25% has not been
examined by Ld.TPO. It is observed that in decision of coordinate bench of
Delhi Tribunal in case of Baxter India Pvt.Ltd vs ACIT reported in (2017) 85
Taxmann.com 285 this comparable failing employee cost filter has been analyzed
as under:
Further, from the order of the TPO we find he has obtained the employee cost
and the sale for the ITES segment by exercise of his powers u s. 133(6).
wherein the said company has allocated entire employee cost to IT - BPO
segment with no allocation to Infra Activity segment which accounts to 49% of
Excel's total revenue. In our opinion. it is highly impractical that no
employee has been hired by Excel for Infra Activity segment. We. therefore.
find merit in the argument of the Id. counsel for the assessee that the
information provided as per section 133(6) by Excel Infoways Ltd. is
unreliable and should not be used to compute employ ee cost for ITES segment.
The Delhi Bench of the Tribunal in the case of Motorola Solutions India (P.)
Ltd. v. Assts. CIT[2014] 48 taxmann.com 24842015] 152 ITD 158 (Delhi) has held
that a company should be rejected as comparable IT(TP)A No.185(B)/2018  24 in
case there is contradiction in the facts or data sourced from annual report
and as per the information gathered u/s. 133(6). In view of above discussion,
we hold that Excel Infoways Ltd. cannot be considered as comparable and should
be excluded from the list of comparables. We hold and direct accordingly".
From the above observation by coordinate bench, objection raised by Ld.CIT DR
stands clarified, as this company for year under consideration made a
statement under 133 (6) regarding allocating entire employee cost to IT-BPO
segment, with no allocation to other segment, which amounts to almost 49% of
its total revenue during the year under consideration. At this stage, we
clarify that, we are not inclined to express our opinion regarding functional
similarities/dissimilarity of this company with that of present assessee
before us and the same is kept open to be considered in an appropriate case.
We therefore agree with contention raised by assessee regarding this
comparable not satisfying employee cost filter. Respectfully following
aforestated decision of Delhi Tribunal reproduced hereinabove, we direct
Ld.TPO to exclude this comparable from the final list.
Comparable sought for inclusion:
7\. Informed Technologies India Ltd.
It has been submitted by Ld.AR that this company is functionally comparable
with that of assessee and submits that it passes through all filters applied
by Ld.TPO. It has been submitted that this comparable was included by Ld.TPO
which was acceptable to assessee. However DRP directed to exclude the same, as
there was no segmental detail available.
IT(TP)A No.185(B)/2018  25 Ld.CIT DR however placed reliance upon order of DRP
and supported its exclusion due to non-availability of segmental information.
10\. We have perused submissions advanced by both sides in the light of the
records placed before us. It is observed that this comparable has been not
disputed for functional dissimilarity by DRP. However, observation that
segmental information are not available needs to be verified.
We are therefore of considered opinion that, this comparable needs to be set-
aside to Ld.TPO for verification afresh. Needless to say that assessee shall
be granted proper opportunity as per law to represent its case.
Accordingly we set aside this comparable back to Ld.TPO Accordingly grounds
4-4.10 stands allowed as indicated above. Ground 5- 5.7 is in respect of
interest on receivables outstanding amounting to Rs.36,33,20,298/- in relation
to transaction with AE. From TP study, it is observed that payments to
assessee are not contingent upon payment received by AEs from their respective
customers. Further Ld.Counsel submitted that working capital adjustment
undertaken by assessee includes the adjustment regarding the receivables and
thus receivables arising out of such transaction have already been accounted
for. Alternatively, he submitted that working capital subsumes sundry
creditors and therefore separate addition is not called for. Ld.TPO computed
interest on outstanding receivables at the rate equal to 13.85 % PLR (SBI base
rate) +300 basis points. It has been argued by Ld.Counsel that authorities
below disregarded business/commercial arrangement between the assessee and its
IT(TP)A No.185(B)/2018  26 AE's, by holding outstanding receivables to be an
independent international transaction.
Ld.Counsel placed reliance on decision of Delhi Tribunal in Kusum Healthcare
Pvt.Ltd vs. ACIT reported in (2015) 62 Taxmann.com 79, deleted addition by
considering the above principle, and subsequently Hon'ble Delhi High Court in
Pr. CIT vs. Kusum Health Care Pvt. Ltd. (2017) 398 ITR 66 (Del), held that no
interest could have been charged as it cannot be considered as international
transaction. He also placed reliance upon decision of Delhi Tribunal in case
of Bechtel India vs DCIT reported in (2016) 66 taxman.com 6 which subsequently
upheld by Hon'able Delhi High Court vide order dated 21/07/16 in ITA No.
379/2016, also upheld by Hon'ble Supreme Court vide order dated 21/07/17, in
CC No. 4956/2017. It has been submitted by Ld.Counsel that outstanding
receivables are closely linked to main transaction and so the same cannot be
considered as separate international transaction. He also submitted that into
company agreements provides for extending credit period with mutual consent
and it does not provide any interest clause in case of delay. He also argued
that the working capital adjustment takes into account the factors related to
delayed receivables and no separate adjustment is required in such
circumstances.
11\. On the contrary Ld.CIT DR submitted that interest on receivables is an
international transaction and Ld.TPO rightly determined its ALP. In support of
his contentions, he read out relevant parts of DRP's direction, in which Panel
relying upon decision of Delhi Tribunal order in Ameriprise India Pvt. Ltd.
vs. ACIT (2015- TII-347-ITAT-DEL-TP) held that interest on receivables is an
international transaction and the transfer pricing adjustment is IT(TP)A
No.185(B)/2018  27 warranted. He stated that Finance Act, 2012 has inserted
Explanation to Section 92B, with retrospective effect from 1.4.2002 and sub-
clause (c) of clause (i) of this Explanation provides that:
(i) the expression "international transaction" shall include--
> ...... (c) capital financing, including any type of long-term or short-term
> borrowing, lending or guarantee, purchase or sale of marketable securities
> or any type of advance, payments or deferred payment or receivable or any
> other debt arising during the course of business;....' .
12\. Ld.CIT DR submitted that expression 'debt arising during the course of
business' refers to trading debt arising from sale of goods or services
rendered in course of carrying on business. Once any debt arising during
course of business is an international transaction, he submitted that any
delay in realization of same needs to be considered within transfer pricing
adjustment, on account of interest income short charged or uncharged. It was
argued that insertion of Explanation with retrospective effect covers
Assessment Year under consideration and hence under/non- payment of interest
by AEs on debt arising during course of business becomes international
transactions, calling for computing its ALP. He referred to decision of Delhi
Tribunal in Ameriprise (supra), in which this issue has been discussed at
length and eventually interest on trade receivables has been held to be an
international transaction. Referring to discussion in said order, it was
stated that Hon'ble Delhi Bench in this case noted a decision of the Hon'ble
Bombay High Court in the case of CIT vs. Patni Computer Systems Ltd., (2013)
215 Taxmann 108 (Bom.), which dealt with question of law:
IT(TP)A No.185(B)/2018  28
(c) `Whether on the facts and circumstances of the case and in law, the
Tribunal did not err in holding that the loss suffered by the assessee by
allowing excess period of credit to the associated enterprises without
charging an interest during such credit period would not amount to
international transaction whereas section 92B(1) of the Income-tax Act, 1961
refers to any other transaction having a bearing on the profits, income,
losses or assets of such enterprises?' He pointed out that while answering the
above question, Hon'ble Bombay High Court noticed that amendment to section
92B has been carried out by Finance Act, 2012 with retrospective effect from
1.4.2002. Setting aside view taken by Tribunal, Hon'ble Bombay High Court
restored the issue to file of Tribunal for fresh decision in light of
legislative amendment. It was thus argued that non/under-charging of interest
on excess period of credit allowed to AEs for realization of invoices, amounts
to an international transaction and ALP of such international transaction has
to be determined by Ld.TPO. In so far as charging of rate of interest is
concerned, he relied on decision of the Hon'ble Delhi High Court in CIT vs.
Cotton Naturals (I) Pvt. Ltd (2015) 276 CTR 445 (Del) holding that currency in
which such amount is to be re-paid, determines rate of interest. He,
therefore, concluded by summing up that interest on outstanding trade
receivables is an international transaction and its ALP has been correctly
determined. We have perused the submissions advanced by both the sides in the
light of the records placed before us.
This Bench referred to decision of Special Bench of this Tribunal in case of
Special Bench of ITAT in case of Instrumentation Corpn.
IT(TP)A No.185(B)/2018  29 Ltd. v. Asstt. DIT in ITA No. 1548 and 1549 (Kol.)
of 2009, dated 15- 7-2016, held that outstanding sum of invoices is akin to
loan advanced by assessee to foreign AE., hence it is an international
transaction as per explanation to section 92 B of the Act. We also perused
decision relied upon by Ld.Counsel. In our considered opinion, these are
factually distinguishable and thus, we reject argument advanced by Ld.Counsel.
Alternatively, it has been argued that working capital adjustment subsumes
sundry creditors. In such situation computing interest on outstanding
receivables and lones and advances to international transaction would amount
to double taxation. Hon'ble Delhi Tribunal in case of Orange Business Services
India Solutions Pvt. Ltd. vs. DCIT in ITA No. 6570/Del/2016 vide its order
dated 15.2.2018 has observed that:
"There may be a delay in collection of monies for supplies made, even beyond
the agreed limit, due to a variety of factors which would have to be
investigated on a case to case basis. Importantly, the impact this would have
on the working capital of the assessee would have to be studied. It went on to
hold that, there has to be a proper inquiry by the TPO by analysing the
statistics over a period of time to discern a pattern which would indicate
that vis-à-vis the receivables for the supplies made to an AE, the arrangement
reflected an international transaction intended to benefit the AE in some way.
Similar matter once again came up for consideration before the Hon'ble Delhi
High Court in Avenue Asia Advisors Pvt. Ltd. vs. DCIT (2017) 398 ITR 120
(Del). Following the earlier decision in Kusum Healthcare (supra), it was
observed that there are several factors which need to be considered before
holding that every receivable is an international IT(TP)A No.185(B)/2018  30
transaction and it requires an assessment on the working capital of the
assessee. Applying the decision in Kusum Health Care (supra), the Hon'ble High
Court directed the TPO to study the impact of the receivables appearing in the
accounts of the assessee; looking into the various factors as to the reasons
why the same are shown as receivables and also as to whether the said
transactions can be characterized as international transactions."
In view of the above, we deem it appropriate to set aside the impugned order
on this issue and remit the matter to the file of the Assessing Officer/TPO
for deciding it in conformity with the above referred judgment. Needless to
say, the assessee will be allowed a reasonable opportunity of being heard in
such fresh proceedings. Accordingly these ground raised by assessee stands
allowed for statistical purposes.
Ground No. 6 is in respect of interest under section 230 4B and C which is
consequential in nature and therefore do not require adjudication.
13\. In the result appeal filed by assessee stands allowed partly for
statistical purposes.
Order pronounced in the open court on 28-08-2019 Sd/- Sd/-
    (J.SUDHAKAR REDDY)                                   (BEENA PILLAI)
    ACCOUNTANT MEMBER                                 JUDICIAL MEMBER
    Dated: the 28th August, 2019.
    *am
                                            IT(TP)A No.185(B)/2018
                                      31
    Copy of the Order forwarded to:
    1.Appellant;
    2.Respondent;
    3.CIT;
    4.CIT(A);
    5. DR
    6. ITO (TDS)
    7.Guard File
                                                      By Order
                                                Asst.Registrar
consequential in nature and therefore do not require adjudication.
13\. In the result appeal filed by assessee stands allowed partly for
statistical purposes.
Order pronounced in the open court on 28-08-2019 Sd/- Sd/-
    (J.SUDHAKAR REDDY)                                   (BEENA PILLAI)
    ACCOUNTANT MEMBER                                 JUDICIAL MEMBER
    Dated: the 28th August, 2019.
    *am
                                            IT(TP)A No.185(B)/2018
                                      31
    Copy of the Order forwarded to:
    1.Appellant;
    2.Respondent;
    3.CIT;
    4.CIT(A);
    5. DR
    Cirle-3(1)(1), R.No.227,2nd Floor,
    BMTC Building, 80ft Road, 6th Block,
    Koramangala,
    Bangalore-560 095                                      Respondent
              Appellant by : Shri K.R.Vasudevan, Advocate
              Revenue by : Shri R.N.Siddappaji, Addl.CIT
                    Date of hearing : 17-07-2019
          Date of pronouncement :     28-09-2019
                                ORDER
PER BEENA PILLAI, JUDICIAL MEMBER :
Present appeal has been filed by assessee against order dated 23/11/17 passed
by Ld. CIT (A)-3, Bangalore for assessment year 2012-13 on following grounds
of appeal:
IT(TP)A No.185(B)/2018  2 The grounds mentioned hereinafter are without
prejudice to one another.
A. Transfer Pricing
1\. The learned Assessing Officer ("learned AO"), learned Transfer Pricing
Officer ("learned TPO") and the Honourable Commissioner of Income Tax
(Appeals) ["Hon'ble CIT(A)"] has grossly erred in law and facts of the case in
proposing a transfer pricing adjustment under Section 92CA of the Income-tax
consequential in nature and therefore do not require adjudication.
13\. In the result appeal filed by assessee stands allowed partly for
statistical purposes.
Order pronounced in the open court on 28-08-2019 Sd/- Sd/-
    (J.SUDHAKAR REDDY)                                   (BEENA PILLAI)
    ACCOUNTANT MEMBER                                 JUDICIAL MEMBER
    Dated: the 28th August, 2019.
    *am
                                            IT(TP)A No.185(B)/2018
                                      31
    Copy of the Order forwarded to:
    1.Appellant;
    2.Respondent;
    3.CIT;
    4.CIT(A);
    5. DR
    Cirle-3(1)(1), R.No.227,2nd Floor,
    BMTC Building, 80ft Road, 6th Block,
    Koramangala,
    Bangalore-560 095                                      Respondent
              Appellant by : Shri K.R.Vasudevan, Advocate
              Revenue by : Shri R.N.Siddappaji, Addl.CIT
                    Date of hearing : 17-07-2019
          Date of pronouncement :     28-09-2019
                                ORDER
PER BEENA PILLAI, JUDICIAL MEMBER :
Present appeal has been filed by assessee against order dated 23/11/17 passed
by Ld. CIT (A)-3, Bangalore for assessment year 2012-13 on following grounds
of appeal:
IT(TP)A No.185(B)/2018  2 The grounds mentioned hereinafter are without
prejudice to one another.
A. Transfer Pricing
1\. The learned Assessing Officer ("learned AO"), learned Transfer Pricing
Officer ("learned TPO") and the Honourable Commissioner of Income Tax
(Appeals) ["Hon'ble CIT(A)"] has grossly erred in law and facts of the case in
proposing a transfer pricing adjustment under Section 92CA of the Income-tax
consequential in nature and therefore do not require adjudication.
13\. In the result appeal filed by assessee stands allowed partly for
statistical purposes.
Order pronounced in the open court on 28-08-2019 Sd/- Sd/-
    (J.SUDHAKAR REDDY)                                   (BEENA PILLAI)
    ACCOUNTANT MEMBER                                 JUDICIAL MEMBER
    Dated: the 28th August, 2019.
    *am
                                            IT(TP)A No.185(B)/2018
                                      31
    Copy of the Order forwarded to:
    1.Appellant;
    2.Respondent;
    3.CIT;
    4.CIT(A);
    5. DR
    Cirle-3(1)(1), R.No.227,2nd Floor,
    BMTC Building, 80ft Road, 6th Block,
    Koramangala,
    Bangalore-560 095                                      Respondent
              Appellant by : Shri K.R.Vasudevan, Advocate
              Revenue by : Shri R.N.Siddappaji, Addl.CIT
                    Date of hearing : 17-07-2019
          Date of pronouncement :     28-09-2019
                                ORDER
PER BEENA PILLAI, JUDICIAL MEMBER :
Present appeal has been filed by assessee against order dated 23/11/17 passed
by Ld. CIT (A)-3, Bangalore for assessment year 2012-13 on following grounds
of appeal:
IT(TP)A No.185(B)/2018  2 The grounds mentioned hereinafter are without
prejudice to one another.
A. Transfer Pricing
1\. The learned Assessing Officer ("learned AO"), learned Transfer Pricing
Officer ("learned TPO") and the Honourable Commissioner of Income Tax
(Appeals) ["Hon'ble CIT(A)"] has grossly erred in law and facts of the case in
proposing a transfer pricing adjustment under Section 92CA of the Income-tax
Act, 1961("the Act") towards the provision of software development and IT
enabled services by the Appellant.
2\. The learned AO/learned TPO/Hon'ble CIT(A) has erred in rejecting the TP
documentation maintained by the Appellant by invoking provisions of sub-
section (3) of 92C of the Act.
3\. The learned AO/learned TPO/Hon'ble CIT(A) has erred in rejecting
comparability analysis carried in the TP documentation and in conducting a
fresh comparability analysis by introducing various filters while determining
the Arm's Length Price ("ALP").
4\. IT Enabled Services ("ITeS") Segment:
4.1 The learned AO/learned TPO/Hon'ble CIT(A) has erred in not considering the
consequential in nature and therefore do not require adjudication.
13\. In the result appeal filed by assessee stands allowed partly for
statistical purposes.
Order pronounced in the open court on 28-08-2019 Sd/- Sd/-
    (J.SUDHAKAR REDDY)                                   (BEENA PILLAI)
    ACCOUNTANT MEMBER                                 JUDICIAL MEMBER
    Dated: the 28th August, 2019.
    *am
                                            IT(TP)A No.185(B)/2018
                                      31
    Copy of the Order forwarded to:
    1.Appellant;
    2.Respondent;
    3.CIT;
    4.CIT(A);
    5. DR
    Cirle-3(1)(1), R.No.227,2nd Floor,
    BMTC Building, 80ft Road, 6th Block,
    Koramangala,
    Bangalore-560 095                                      Respondent
              Appellant by : Shri K.R.Vasudevan, Advocate
              Revenue by : Shri R.N.Siddappaji, Addl.CIT
                    Date of hearing : 17-07-2019
          Date of pronouncement :     28-09-2019
                                ORDER
PER BEENA PILLAI, JUDICIAL MEMBER :
Present appeal has been filed by assessee against order dated 23/11/17 passed
by Ld. CIT (A)-3, Bangalore for assessment year 2012-13 on following grounds
of appeal:
IT(TP)A No.185(B)/2018  2 The grounds mentioned hereinafter are without
prejudice to one another.
A. Transfer Pricing
1\. The learned Assessing Officer ("learned AO"), learned Transfer Pricing
Officer ("learned TPO") and the Honourable Commissioner of Income Tax
(Appeals) ["Hon'ble CIT(A)"] has grossly erred in law and facts of the case in
proposing a transfer pricing adjustment under Section 92CA of the Income-tax
Act, 1961("the Act") towards the provision of software development and IT
enabled services by the Appellant.
2\. The learned AO/learned TPO/Hon'ble CIT(A) has erred in rejecting the TP
documentation maintained by the Appellant by invoking provisions of sub-
section (3) of 92C of the Act.
3\. The learned AO/learned TPO/Hon'ble CIT(A) has erred in rejecting
comparability analysis carried in the TP documentation and in conducting a
fresh comparability analysis by introducing various filters while determining
the Arm's Length Price ("ALP").
4\. IT Enabled Services ("ITeS") Segment:
4.1 The learned AO/learned TPO/Hon'ble CIT(A) has erred in not considering the
consequential in nature and therefore do not require adjudication.
13\. In the result appeal filed by assessee stands allowed partly for
statistical purposes.
Order pronounced in the open court on 28-08-2019 Sd/- Sd/-
    (J.SUDHAKAR REDDY)                                   (BEENA PILLAI)
    ACCOUNTANT MEMBER                                 JUDICIAL MEMBER
    Dated: the 28th August, 2019.
    *am
                                            IT(TP)A No.185(B)/2018
                                      31
    Copy of the Order forwarded to:
    1.Appellant;
    2.Respondent;
    3.CIT;
    4.CIT(A);
    5. DR
