Madras High Court
Mr.K.V.Jayaraman vs K.V.Gobi on 15 April, 2013
     IN THE HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE AT MADRAS
    DATED  :   15.04.2013
    CORAM
    THE HONOURABLE MR. JUSTICE M. VIJAYARAGHAVAN
    Second Appeal No.960 of 2005
    Mr.K.V.Jayaraman				.. Appellant
    Vs.
    K.V.Gobi					.. Respondent
    Prayer:-  Second Appeal is filed under Section100 of the Code of Civil Procedure, against the judgment and decree, dated 13.04.2005 passed by the Lower Appellate Court/ in A.S.No.63 of 2003, in confirming the judgment and decree, dated 26.09.2002, passed by the Trial Court/ in O.S.No.32 of 1999. 
    		For Appellant		:  Mr.V.Bharathidasan
    		For Respondent		:  Ms.P.T.Asha
    					   For Sarvabhauman Associates
    JUDGMENT
This Second Appeal arises out of the judgment and decree passed by the First
Appellate Court in A.S.No.63 of 2003 dated 13.4.2005, in confirming the
judgment and decree passed by the Trial Court in O.S.No.32 of 1999, dated
26.09.2002.
2\. For better appreciation of this appeal, the brief averments of the plaint
and in favour of the respondent/defendant.
20.In view of the discussions made and the decisions arrived at, and the suit
filed by the appellant/plaintiff is barred under Order II Rule 2 in the light
of the earlier suit filed in O.S.No.720/1990 and hence the 4th substantial
question of law is decided as against the appellant/plaintiff and in favour of
the respondent/defendant.
21.Though A1 Sale Agreement is true, valid and genuine and a bonafide document
for valuable consideration and in the light, of the 4th question of law is
decided as against the appellant/plaintiff and in favour of the
respondent/defendant, the appellant/plaintiff is not entitled to a relief of
specific performance of contract and hence the 1st substantial question of law
also decided as against the appellant/plaintiff and in favour of the
respondent/defendant.
In the result this Second Appeal is dismissed after confirming the concurrent
Judgments of the Courts below in A.S.No.63 of 2003 dated 13.04.2005 and
O.S.No. 32 of 1999 dated 26.09.2002. The parties are directed to bear their
2\. For better appreciation of this appeal, the brief averments of the plaint
as well as the written statement are re-produced hereunder:-
i) The brief averments of the plaint are as follows:-
The plaintiff is none other than the brother of the defendant. The suit
property, situated in the Industrial Estates, Mettur, was allotted by the
Tamil Nadu Small Industries Development Corporation Ltd., to the defendant.
During the time of allotment, the defendant is employed in Malco Mettur. In
the middle of the year, 1989, since the defendant was not able to run the
Unit, he approached the plaintiff and expressed his desire to sell the Unit to
him. Thereafter, both the defendant and the plaintiff entered into an
agreement for sale of the suit property for a sum of Rs.1,74,001/- on
06.09.1989. As per the said agreement, the defendant received a sum of
Rs.630/- as advance and the plaintiff has to pay the balance sale price of
Rs.1,67,700/. The defendant had obtained a loan for a sum of Rs.1,00,000/-
from Tamil Nadu Industrial Investment Corporation ( for short 'TIIC') and the
said amount has to be paid by the defendant, either in installments or in
total. The defendant has to pay a sum of Rs.2,700/- to SIDCO and the same has
to be paid by the plaintiff. The plaintiff has to pay Rs.25,000/- on
30.09.1989, and Rs.40,000/- on 30.11.1989, to the defendant and as per the
agreement, if the plaintiff fails to make the payment on or before 30.11.1989,
or if he fails to make the loan of Rs.1,00,000/- to TIIC, the agreement will
be declared as null and void and the amount paid by the plaintiff will not be
paid off. On the date of agreement itself, possession of the suit property was
handedover to the plaintiff. As per the terms of the agreement, the plaintiff
paid Rs.25,000/- on 3.12.1989, Rs.5,000/- on 5.12.1989 and Rs.10,000/- on
17.12.1989, and for the said payments made by the plaintiff, endorsements were
also made in the agreement. Time is not the essence of contract, since the
both the parties agreed that the loan payable to TIIC has to be paid by the
plaintiff either in installments or in total. From 6.9.1989, the plaintiff is
in possession of the suit property and has been running a contract business
under the name and style "Vellavan Engineering Contractors". As per the terms
of the agreement, the plaintiff is paying the loan amount by installments till
date without any default. On 30.11.1989, the plaintiff approached the
defendant and asked him to receive the balance amount, as stated in the
agreement for the sale of the suit property. But the defendant has stated that
the plaintiff has to complete the sale with SIDCO and after completing the
sale, he will receive the balance, for which, the plaintiff too agreed. On
30.11.1989, a sale deed was executed in favour of the defendant and
subsequently, the plaintiff paid the balance sale consideration and the same
was also received by the defendant. As per the agreement, as on 17.12.1989,
the defendant has received Rs.71,301/- on various occasions and on 10.1.1990,
the defendant handedover the original sale deed of the property to the
plaintiff. The plaintiff also gave Indian Bank account number standing in the
name of the "Vellavan Engineering Contractors" and has been running the
business without any hindrance. Whileso, on 4.10.1990, the defendant came in
person and directed the plaintiff to surrender the possession of the suit
property. Aggrieved by the same, the plaintiff filed a suit in O.S.No.720 of
1990, against the defendant before the Trial Court, seeking for the relief of
injunction. The Trial Court, vide judgment and decree, dated 29.3.1994,
dismissed the suit. Challenging the same, an Appeal was preferred by the
plaintiff and the same is pending. On 30.05.1994, the plaintiff received a
letter from TIIC, stating the outstanding amount of Rs.8,445/- is due as on
30.04.1994 and the interest accrued thereon is Rs.1,364/- and the other due is
Rs.32,000/- and in total, Rs.9,440.57 has to be paid towards the last and
final installment. The plaintiff is ready and willing to pay the balance to
perform his part of the contract, but, it is the defendant, who is evading the
same with a mala fide intention to defraud the rights of the plaintiff. As per
the agreement, the defendant has to perform his part of the contract on
payment of balance sum of Rs.9,440.57 to TIIC and execute a sale deed in
favour of the plaintiff for Rs.1,74,001/-, failing which, the Court may
execute the sale deed or in the alternative to pay back the advance and part
of the sale consideration received by the defendant from the plaintiff with
interest at the rate of 12% p.a., and with costs.
The brief averments of the Written Statement are as follows:-
It is true that the "Velavan Engineering Contractors" was allotted to this
defendant by the Tamil Nadu Small Industries Development Corporation Limited
for a consideration of Rs.21,200/- and the defendant also availed a Term Loan
of Rs.74,800/- from the Tamil Nadu Industrial Investment Corporation Ltd.,
Salem and also executed a registered Mortgage Deed on 02.06.1983 and was also
running the above concern. Since the defendant was working at MALCO it was
difficult for him to look after the unit fully and effectively.
2\. The plaintiff who is the elder brother of the defendant, approached him
for a job and therefore, the defendant gave the plaintiff job of managing the
unit of this defendant and thereby the plaintiff is managing the entire
affairs of the unit and he was paid a sum of Rs.1,000/- as salary in the
beginning and subsequently enhanced to Rs.2,000/-. The plaintiff began to
mismanage the huge income derived from the unit. Further in order to attend
the official and non-official matters, the plaintiff will get the signatures
of this defendant in blank white papers and also in blank General Stamp
papers, letter heads and other blank forms, pronote, etc., The plaintiff, with
a malafide intention has concocted and created a fabricated false suit
agreement as if the defendant has agreed to sell the unit to the plaintiff.
This defendant never entered into agreement dated 06.09.1989 with the
plaintiff for Rs.1,74,001/-. Hence the plaintiff is not entitled to any relief
under the false, fradulent and fabricated suit agreement and the alleged terms
and conditions contained in the agreement are false and fradulent and not
admitted by this defendant.
3\. The plaintiff taken away all the receipts and all other documents and
accounts etc before ever filing the suit O.S.No.720 of 1990. It is false to
allege that the plaintiff was ready and willing to fulfill his part of
contract under the alleged agreement and the payment effected by him and the
same has been entered into agreement are all false. After filing of the suit
O.S.No.720 of 1990 the plaintiff is continuing in possession of the suit
property. This defendant reserves his right to proceed against the plaintiff
in this regard in separate proceedings and now filed O.P.No.42 of 1975. The
allegations that the plaintiff approached this defendant on 30.11.1989 to
receive the amount after executed the sale deed dated 30.11.1989 is false.
4\. It is totally false that the defendant has received on various occasions a
sum of Rs.71,301/- as on 17.12.1989. This defendant never handed over the
original sale deed to the plaintiff and the plaintiff by foul means got the
sale Deed original from SIDCO, for which this defendant has preferred lot of
complaints to the authorities. If the suit agreement is a genuine and true
one, the plaintiff would have come forward with this suit for specific
performance within the period of limitation. The allegations averred that on
04.10.1990 and 22.10.1990, the defendant and his men came to the plaintiff and
wanted surrender possession of the suit property are false. The Appeal in
A.S.No.24 of 1994 which is falsely filed by the plaintiff was also dismissed.
There is no cause of action in this suit and the same is liable to be
dismissed with compensatory costs.
5\. In the Second Appeal, following the substantial question of law has been
framed:-
"1. Have not the Courts below committed an error of law in rejecting the
relief of specific performance after holding that Ex.A1 is true and genuine
for bonafide consideration?
2\. Have not the Courts below committed an error of law in holding that time
is the essence of contract when the respondent denies the execution of the
Ex.A1 and not willing to perform the contract whereas the appellant is always
ready and willing to perform the contract? and
3\. Have not the Courts below committed an error of law in holding that the
relief of specific performance cannot be granted in view of the Article 54 of
the Limitation Act without appreciating that the appellant was ready and
willing to perform the contract as against the respondent?"
6\. After considering the submissions made by the learned counsel for the
respondent as well as the appellant with regard to the question of law under
Order II Rule 2 in this appeal is quite necessary in the light of the
pleadings made by the appellant/plaintiff about the earlier suit filed by him,
i.e., O.S.No.720 of 1990 for the effective disposal of this appeal. Hence, the
following additional substantial question of law, i.e., No.4 is framed by this
Court:-
"4. Have not the suit filed by the appellant/plaintiff is barred under Order
II, Rule 2 in the light of the earlier suit filed in O.S.No.720 of 1990.
7\. The learned counsel for the appellant/defendant submitted that though the
Courts below have concurrently held that Ex.A1-Sale Agreement dated 06.09.1989
is a genuine document, but refused the relief of specific performance on the
question of limitation that the suit itself is not been filed within three
years under Article 54 of the Limitation Act, without considering the clause 1
of the agreement of sale  Ex.A1 in giving option to the appellant/plaintiff
to pay the loan amount of Rs.1,00,000/- obtained from TIIC either in
instalment or in lumpsum and though this suit was filed on 16.06.1994, the
prayer in the suit itself for executing the Sale Deed in favour of the
plaintiff on payment of balance sale consideration of Rs.9440.57/- to the TIIC
and as rightly the last final settlement was effected by the plaintiff i.e.
pending the suit filed by the plaintiff on 16.11.2001 under Ex.A22 and hence,
the finding of the Court below that time is the essence of the contract is
perverse. Further, the learned counsel submitted that moreparticularly, though
there is condition under Ex.A1 that the amount of Rs.25,000/- and
Rs.40,000/-should be paid by the plaintiff on 30.09.1989 and 30.11.1989
respectively and failing which the agreement is not enforceable and
furthermore the plaintiff is not entitled to return back the amount paid, the
Courts below lost sight of the conduct of the parties in rightly accepting the
amount paid by the plaintiff to the defendant after the date of 30.11.1989 ie.
on 07.12.1989, 05.12.1989 and 17.12.1989 which are marked as Exs.A24, A25 and
A26 and hence the Judgment of the Courts below both trial as well as the First
Appellate Court are liable to be set aside.
8\. With reference to the submissions made by the learned counsel for the
appellant it is found that under Ex.A1-Agreement the loan amount obtained from
the TIIC can be paid by the plaintiff either through instalment or on lumpsum
payment and this option granted under Ex.A1 is absolute and thereby the
settlement of the above due amount to the TIIC is directly in between the TIIC
as well as the plaintiff but there is no time frame for settling the due
amount to the TIIC and the payment effected on 16.11.2001 by the plaintiff is
also evidenced through Ex.A22 eventhough the sale deed for the schedule
property in the name of the defendant was executed on 30.11.1989 by the
authorities concerned and the same is also now in the custody of the plaintiff
though such custody is disputed by the respondent/defendant as a fraud
committed by the appellant/plaintiff. Eventhough there is a time frame for
payment of Rs.65,000/- to the Defendant on or before 30.11.1989 and the
failure clause as already pointed out above under Ex.A1 rendering the A1
unenforceable and to loose the amount already paid by the plaintiff, the
subsequent payments effected after 30.11.1989 which are clinchingly proved
through endorsement made under Ex.A1 as Exs.A25 and A26 respectively as
rightly submitted by the learned counsel for the appellant/plaintiff made that
time is not the essence of contract under A1. Hence, the finding of the Court
below that time is the essence of the contract is not based on valid available
evidences on record and hence the same is not sustainable.
9\. The learned counsel for the respondent/defendant submitted that the
appellant/plaintiff in the earlier suit in O.S.No.720/90 very categorically
pleaded that he is ready and willing to perform his part of contract but the
defendant failed to execute the same and hence the suit itself had not been
filed for comprehensive reliefs of specific performance and for injunction and
moreover no separate suit is filed within 3 years from the date of filing of
that suit i.e. from 25.10.1990 and hence the suit itself is barred under
limitation. Mere such averment contained in the pleadings of the plaintiff in
the earlier proceeding shall not in any way reckon for filing a suit for
specific performance that too in the light of the above decision made that
time is not the essence of the contract which is also proved through the
subsequent payment made by the plaintiff, rightly received and endorsed under
Ex.A1-Sale Agreement and also payment of the amount due to the TIIC by the
plaintiff that too final payment effected 16.11.2001 under Ex.A22. Hence, the
further findings of the Court below that the limitation point starts from
30.11.89 and the suit filed by the plaintiff is barred under limitation is
perverse and the same is set aside.
11.The learned counsel for the respondent submitted that it is the admitted
case of the plaintiff himself that he has filed O.S.No.720/90 on 24.10.1990 as
against this defendant for a relief of injunction based on the possession of
the schedule property under Ex.A1-Sale Agreement and it is very pertinent to
note from the certified copy of the Judgment pronounced in O.S.No.720/90 which
is marked as Ex.B21 that the plaintiff has very categorically averred that he
was ready and willing to perform his part of contract but the same was not
complied by the defendant and eventhen though O.S.No.720/90 was not filed for
a comprehensive reliefs of specific performance and injunction but filed only
suit for injunction and no permission of the Court then was obtained under
Order II Rule 2 of Civil Procedure code and now filed a suit for specific
performance at a later point of time and hence, the suit now filed which is a
subject matter of the Second Appeal is barred under Order II Rule 2 of Civil
procedure Code and the same is liable to be dismissed. As rightly pointed out
by the learned counsel for the respondent/defendant that in the earlier Court
proceeding O.S.No.720/90 and its dismissal and as against which A.S.No.24/94
filed and was pending are categorically admitted by the plaintiff under
paragraph IX of the plaint. The learned counsel for the appellant/plaintiff
submitted that the Order II Rule 2 of C.P.C. Plea was not applicable to a
case, wherein a earlier case was filed and pending and such plea can be raised
only in case where it was disposed off and moreover to substantiate the plea
of Order II Rule 2 of C.P.C., the earlier proceeding plaint copy should be
filed and in the absence of such pleadings filed, the plea of Order II Rule 2
shall not sustain and in support of his contention the learned counsel
referred to the Judgment of the Apex Court in a case namely Gurubux Singh ---
Appellant Versus Bhooralal --- Respondent reported in AIR 1964 Supreme Court
1810(1), as well as unreported Judgment of a Division Bench of this Court in a
case namely R.Radhakrishnan and another --- Appellants Versus G.Ekambaram and
2 others in A.S.No.178/2007, dated 12.10.2011.
12\. In the first cited Judgment the Hon'ble Supreme Court has held as
hereunder:
6\. In order that a plea of a bar under 0. 2. r. 2(3), Civil Procedure Code
should succeed the defendant who raises the plea must make out (1) that the
second suit was in respect of the same cause of action as that on which the
previous suit was based, (2) that in respect of that cause of action the
plaintiff was entitled to more than one relief, (3) that being thus entitled
to more than one relief the plaintiff, without leave obtained from the Court,
omitted to sue for the relief for which the second suit had been filed. From
this analysis it would be seen that the defendant would have to establish
primarily and to start with, the precise cause of action upon which the
previous suit was filed, for unless there is identity between the cause of
action on which the earlier suit was filed and that on which the claim in the
later suit is based there would be no scope for the application of the bar. No
doubt, a relief which is sought in a plaint could ordinarily be traceable to a
particular cause of action but this might, by no means, be the universal rule.
As the plea is a technical bar it has to be established satisfactorily and
cannot be presumed merely on basis of inferential reasoning. It is for this
reason that we consider that a plea of a bar under 0. 2. r. 2, Civil Procedure
Code can be established only if the defendant files in evidence the pleadings
in the previous suit and thereby proves to the Court the identity of the cause
of action in the two suits. It is common ground that the pleadings in C.S. 28
of 1950 were not filed by the appellant in the present suit as evidence in
support of his plea under 0. 2. r. 2, Civil Procedure Code. The learned trial
Judge, however, without these pleadings being on the record inferred what the
cause of action should have been from the reference to the previous suit
contained in the plaint as a matter of deduction. At the stage of the appeal
the learned District Judge noticed this lacuna in the appelllant's case and
pointed out, in our opinion rightly, that without the plaint in the previous
suit being on the record, a plea of a bar under 0. 2. r. 2, Civil Procedure
Code was not maintainable. Learned counsel for the appellant, however, drew
our attention to a passage in the judgment of the learned Judge in the High
Court which read:
"The plaint, written statement or the judgment of the earlier court has not
been filed by any of the parties to the suit. The only document filed was the
judgment in appeal in the earlier suit. The two courts have, however, freely
cited from the record of the earlier suit. The counsel for the parties have
likewise done so. That file is also before this Court."
It was his submission that from this passage we should infer that the parties
had, by agreement, consented to make the pleadings in the earlier suit part of
the record in the present suit. We are unable to agree with this
interpretation of these ,observations. The statement of the learned Judge "The
two court have, however, freely cited from the record of the ,earlier suit" is
obviously inaccurate as the learned District Judge specifically pointed out
that the pleadings in the earlier suit were not part of the record and on that
very ground had rejected the plea of the bar under 0. 2. r. 2, Civil Procedure
Code. Nor can we find any basis for the suggestion that the learned Judge had
admitted these documents at the second appeal stage under 0. 41. r. 27, Civil
Procedure Code by consent of parties. There is nothing on the record to
suggest such an agreement or such an order, assuming that additional evidence
could legitimately be admitted in a second appeal under 0. 41. r. 27, Civil
Procedure Code. We can therefore proceed only on the basis that the pleadings
in the earlier suit were not part of the record in the present suit.
7\. Learned counsel for the appellant, however, urged that in his plaint in
the present suit the respondent had specifically referred to the previous suit
having been for mesne profits and that as mesne profits could not be claimed
except from a trespasser there should also have been an allegation in the
previous suit that the defendant was a trespasser in wrongful possession of
the property and that alone could have been the basis for claiming mesne
profits. We are unable to accept this argument. In the first place, it is
admitted that the plaint in the present suit was in Hindi and that the word
`mesne profits' is an English translation of some expression used in the
original. The original of the plaint is not before us and so it is not
possible to verify whether the expression `mesne profits' is an accurate
translation of the expression in the original plaint. This apart, we consider
that learned counsel's argument must be rejected for a more basic reason. Just
as in the case of a plea of res judicata which cannot be established in the
absence on the record of the judgment and decree which is pleaded as estoppel,
we consider that a plea under 0. 2. r. 2, Civil Procedure Code cannot be made
out except on proof of the plaint in the previous suit the filing of which is
said to create the bar. As the plea is basically founded on the identity of
the cause of action in the two suits the ,defence which raises the bar has
necessarily to establish the ,cause of action in the previous suit. The cause
of action would be the facts which the plaintiff had then alleged to support
the right to the relief that he claimed. Without placing before the Court the
plaint in which those facts were alleged, the defendant cannot invite the
Court to speculate or infer by a process of deduction what those facts might
be with reference to the reliefs which were then claimed. It is not impossible
that reliefs were claimed without the necessary averments to justify their
grant. From the mere use of the words `mesne profits' therefore one need not
necessarily infer that the possession of the defendant was alleged to be
wrongful. It is also possible that the expression 'mesne profits' has been
used in the present plaint without a proper appreciation of its significance
in law. What matters is not the characterisation of the particular sum
demanded but what in substance is the ,allegation on which the claim to the
sum was based and as regards the legal relationship on the basis of which that
relief was sought. If is because of these reasons that we consider that a plea
based on the existence of a former pleading cannot be entertained when the
pleading on which it rests has not been produced.
13\. In the 2nd cited Judgment of the Division Bench of this Court, the
Division Bench of this Court has held as hereunder:
36\. The learned Senior counsel relied on a decision reported in AIR 1964 (SC)
1810(Gurbax Singh vs Bhooralal), wherein the Apex Court has held as follows:
`7. In order that a plea of a bar under O.2 r.2(3), Civil Procedure Code
should succeed the defendant who raises the plea must make out (1) that the
second suit was in respect of the same cause of action as that on which the
previous suit was based, (2) that in respect of that cause of action the
plaintiff was entitled to more than one relief, (3) that being thus entitled
to moe than one relief the plaintiff, without leave obtained from the Court,
omitted to sue for the relief for which the second suit had been filed. From
this analysis it would be seen that the defendant would have to establish
primarily and to start with, the precise cause of action upon which the
previous suit was filed, for unless there is identity between the cause of
action on which the earlier suit was filed and that on which the claim in the
later suit is based there would be no scope for the application of the bar. No
doubt, a relief which is sought in a plaint could ordinarily be treaceable to
a particular cause of action but this might, by no means, be the universale
rule. As the plea is a technical bar it has to be established satisfactorily
and cannot be presumed merely on basis of inferential reasoning. It is for
this reason that we consider that a plea of a bar under o.2.r.2 Civil
Procedure Code can be established only if the defendant files in evidence the
pleadings in the previous suit and thereby proves to the Court the identity of
the cause of action in the two suits. It is common ground that the pleadings
in C.S.28 of 1950 were not filed by the appellant in the present suit as
evidence in support of his lea under O.2 r.2, Civil Procedure Code. The
learned trial judge, however, without these pleadings being on the record
inferred what the cause of action should have been from the reference to the
previus suit contained in the plaint as a matter of deduction. At the stage of
appeal the learned District Judge noticed this lacuna in the appellant's case
and pointed out, in our opinion rightly, that without the plaint in the
previus suit being on the record, a plea of a bar under O.2 r.2, Civil
Procedure Code was not maintainable. Learned Counsel for the appellant,
however, drew our attention to a passage in the judgment of the learned Judge
in the High Court which read: The plaint, written statement or the judgment of
the erlier court has not been filed by any of the parties to the suit. The
only document filed was the judgment in appeal in the earlier suit. The two
courts have, however, freely cited from the record of the earlier suit. The
counsel for the parties have likewise done so. That file is also before this
Court.
37\. The learned senior counsel for the appellant also relied on a decision
reported in AIR 2002 (3) MLJ 177 (R. Vimalchand and another vs Ramalingam an
others), wherein, a Divison Bench of this Court has held as follows: `29. In
order to find out the maintainability of the suit, on the principle of o.2,
Rule 2, C.P.C, one has to consider the necessary fact which give rise the
cause of action of the earlier suit and not the mere right to file the suit.
It is necessary to keep in mind that the term `cause of action' for the
purpose of O.2, Rule 2, C.P.C means the cause of action which gives occasion
for and forms the foundation of the suit. There is a distinction between
`cause of action' and `right of action'.
30\. O.2 C.P.C can be made applicable only if the earlier suit was disposed of
and thereafter a fresh suit is being filed with the same cause of action for
fresh relief. When the present suit has been filed during the pendency of the
earlier suit, in our view, the provision of O.2 Rule 2 CPC is not attracted.
It is also the fact that the present relief of specific performance was not
within the jurisdiction of the Court in which earlier suit was pending
38\. The learned Senior Counsel further relied on a decison reported in 1997
(1) SCC 99(Bengal Waterproof Limited vs Bombay Waterproof Manufacturing
Company andanother),wherein the Apex Court has held as follows: `7..... So far
as sub-rule (3) of Rule 2 of Order 2 CPC is concerned, bar of which appealed
to both the courts below, before the second suit of the plaintiff can be held
to be barred by the same it must be shown that the second suit is based on the
same cause of action on which the earlier suit was based and if the cause of
action is the same in both the suits and if in the earlier suit plaintiff had
not sued for any of the reliefs available to it on the basis of that cause of
action, the reliefs which it had failed to press in service in that suit
cannot be subsequently prayed for except with the leave of the court.
39\. The learned counsel for the respondents relied on a decision reported in
2010 (8) MLJ 52 (Sornam and others vs A. Venugopal and others), wherein the
learned single Judge of this Court, in a matter, where the agreement holder
initially filed a suit for injunction and later filed a suit for specific
performance held that, when the cause of action urged in the later suit was
very much available at the time of filing of the earlier suit, the later suit
will be barred under Or.2 Rule 2 CPC.
40\. The case reported in AIR 2002 (3) MLJ 177 (R. Vimalchand and another vs
Ramalingam an others), cited supra is a Division Bench ruling wherein also an
earlier suit was filed for an injunction restraining the defendants not to
alienate the property and the later suit was filed for specific performance of
the contract. The division bench held that the cause of action has to be seen
only from the averments in the pleadings and where the new suit is founded
upon a cause of action distinct from that which was the foundation for the
former suit, Or.2 Rule 2 CPC has no application.
41\. In AIR 1964 (SC) 1810 (Gurbax Singh vs Bhooralal), cited supra, the Apex
Court had also held that without the pleading being on the record, the court
cannot infer the cause of action.
42\. The decision reported in 1997 (1) SCC 99 (Bengal Waterproof Limited vs
Bombay Waterproof Manufacturing Company and another) is also on the same line.
43\. In the present case, though the respondents had pleaded that the present
suit is barred under Or.2 R.2 CPC, they have not placed the pleadings of the
former suit. They have also not raised an issue before the trial court and the
trial court has also not gone into this issue. It is well settled that Or.2
C.P.C can be made applicable only if the earlier suit was disposed of and
thereafter a fresh suit is being filed with the same cause of action for fresh
relief. When the present suit has been filed during the pendency of the
earlier suit, the provision of O.2 Rule 2 CPC is not attracted. It is also the
fact that the present relief of specific performance was not within the
jurisdiction of the Court in which earlier suit was pending. More over the
respondents have also not produced the plaint filed in the earlier suit for
permenent injunction. Therefore, we are of the considered view that the
present suit is not barred under Or.2 Rule 2 CPC."
14\. However, the learned counsel for the respondent with special reference to
the submission made earlier with regard to Order II Rule 2 C.P.C. and also in
rebutting the submission made and also the Judgments cited by the learned
counsel for the appellant/plaintiff referred to above vehemently submitted
that in the light of the admitted pleading by the appellant/plaintiff in the
plaint about the earlier suit 720/95 the burden is heavily on the
appellant/plaintiff to peruse the earlier suit plaint to prove that the suit
was filed with different cause of action and the present suit filed by him is
not a legal bar and cited a Judgment of the Division Bench of this Court in a
case in Bajaj Auto Ltd-- Appellant Versus TVS Motor Company Ltd. --Respondents
reported in 2010 (6) CTC 225 after referring the Judgments of the Apex Court
in cases viz., (1)A.Raghavanna V. A.Chenchamma, 1964 (2) SCR 933 (2)Anil Rishi
V.Gurbaksh Singh, 2006 (4) CTC 524 (SC) (3)Shah Babulal Khimji V.Jayaben
D.Kania, 1981 (4) SCC 8 (4)State Bank of India V.Rajan Chemicals Ltd., 2007
(1) SCC 97 In this cited Judgment it was held as hereunder:
"43.Since the plaintiff has admitted the earlier suit, it was their duty to
establish that the first suit was on the basis of a different cause of action
and as such, there was no legal bar in filing a second suit. This issue goes
to the root of the matter and as such, the burden is on the plaintiff to
provide materials to substantiate their contention that the cause of action
for filing a second suit was altogether different. In spite of such burden of
proof on the plaintiff to sustain the very suit, the learned Single Judge has
shifted the burden and called upon the defendant to begin the case. Instead of
directing the plaintiff to produce positive evidence to decree their suit, the
learned Judge has directed the defendant to prove the negative. This really
caused prejudice to the defendant."
15\. In the light of the above categorical admission made by the learned
counsel for the appellant/plaintiff in the plaint under paragraph IX about the
earlier suit i.e.O.S.No.720/90 filed, the Division Bench Judgment cited by the
learned counsel for the respondent/defendant is squarely apply to the facts
and circumstances of the case and the Judgments cited by the learned counsel
for the appellant/plaintiff are not applicable to the facts and circumstances
of the case and the decision rendered thereunder shall no way helpful to the
submissions made by the learned counsel for the plaintiff and with due respect
after following the Judgments of Division Bench of this Court cited by the
learned counsel for the respondent/defendant this Court holds that the
appellant/plaintiff has failed to prove positive evidence and absolutely there
is no duty cast on the respondent/defendant to produce and prove the earlier
suit pleading to substantiate the plea of bar, under Order II Rule 2 of the
suit filed by the appellant/plaintiff.
16\. In the above circumstances, the stand of the appellant/plaintiff that the
plea of Order II Rule 2 has not been raised in the written statement and the
plaint copy in O.S.No.720/90 has not been filed shall not be sound and
sustainable one in the light of the admitted averment contained about the
earlier suit O.S.No.720/95 for injunction relief and the appeal in
A.S.No.24/94 preferred as against the same not dismissed by the First
Appellate Court. Furthermore, a careful perusal of Ex.B21-Judgment passed in
O.S.No.720/90 shows that the plaintiff therein had pleaded that he has filed a
suit for specific performance based on agreement of sale dated 06.09.1989.
But, admittedly the present suit O.S.No.32/1999 (Originally filed as
O.S.No.186/1994 filed on 16.06.1994) was only filed and not any other suit as
pleaded thereunder. It is also not the consistent case of the
appellant/plaintiff while filing of O.S.No.720/90 for bare injunction,
specific performance suit based on 06.09.1989- Sale Agreement i.e. Ex.A1 was
filed and pending. Moreover, a careful reading of Ex.B21 Judgment pronounced
in O.S.No.720/90 reveals under paragraph 14 of the Judgment that there is a
clear categorical finding that the suit one filed by the plaintiff for
injunction is not maintainable in the light of nonfiling of a comprehensive
suit for specific performance and injunction and the mere relief of injunction
was rightly dismissed. No doubt, as against that Ex.B21- Judgment though
A.S.No.24/94 was filed and the same also rightly dismissed by the First
Appellate Court on 27.10.1994 which is also evidenced through Ex.B22,
Judgment. Admittedly, as against Ex.B22 Judgment there is no second appeal
filed by the plaintiff and pending. Hence, it is clinchingly proved through
the above evidences on record that the earlier Court proceeding in
O.S.No.720/1990 was admittedly averred in the suit proceeding in
O.S.No.32/1999 by the plaintiff and the same also rightly dismissed by the
trial Court as well as appellate Court and in the above said Court proceedings
no permission was obtained by the appellant/plaintiff under Order II Rule 2 of
the Civil Procedure Code to file a suit for specific performance of contract
under A1 agreement.
17.The learned counsel for the respondent/defendant submitted that Order II
Rule 2 of the CPC seeks to avoid multiplicity of litigations on same cause of
action and cited Judgment of the Hon'ble Apex Court in a case in M/s.Virgo
Industries (Eng.) P. Ltd.... Appellant Versus M/s.Venturetech Solutions
P.Ltd.-- Respondent reported in 2013-1-L.W.31 . In the Judgement cited the
Hon'ble Supreme Court has held as hereunder:
9\. Order II Rule 1 requires every suit to include the whole of the claim to
which the plaintiff is entitled in respect of any particular cause of action.
However, the plaintiff has an option to relinquish any part of his claim if he
chooses to do so. Order II Rule 2 contemplates a situation where a plaintiff
omits to sue or intentionally relinquishes any portion of the claim which he
is entitled to make. If the plaintiff so acts, Order II Rule 2 of CPC makes it
clear that he shall not, afterwards, sue for the part or portion of the claim
that has been omitted or relinquished. It must be noticed that Order II Rule 2
(2) does not contemplate omission or relinquishment of any portion of the
plaintiffs claim with the leave of the court so as to entitle him to come
back later to seek what has been omitted or relinquished. Such leave of the
Court is contemplated by Order II Rule 2(3) in situations where a plaintiff
being entitled to more than one relief on a particular cause of action, omits
to sue for all such reliefs. In such a situation, the plaintiff is precluded
from bringing a subsequent suit to claim the relief earlier omitted except in
a situation where leave of the Court had been obtained. It is, therefore,
clear from a conjoint reading of the provisions of Order II Rule 2 (2) and (3)
of the CPC that the aforesaid two sub-rules of Order II Rule 2 contemplate two
different situations, namely, where a plaintiff omits or relinquishes a part
of a claim which he is entitled to make and, secondly, where the plaintiff
omits or relinquishes one out of the several reliefs that he could have
claimed in the suit. It is only in the latter situations where the plaintiff
can file a subsequent suit seeking the relief omitted in the earlier suit
proved that at the time of omission to claim the particular relief he had
obtained leave of the Court in the first suit.
10\. The object behind enactment of Order II Rule 2 (2) and (3) of the CPC is
not far to seek. The Rule engrafts a laudable principle that
discourages/prohibits vexing the defendant again and again by multiple suits
except in a situation where one of the several reliefs, though available to a
plaintiff, may not have been claimed for a good reason. A later suit for such
relief is contemplated only with the leave of the Court which leave,
naturally, will be granted upon due satisfaction and for good and sufficient
reasons. The situations where the bar under Order II Rule 2 (2) and (3) will
be attracted have been enumerated in a long line of decisions spread over a
century now. Though each of the aforesaid decisions contain a clear and
precise narration of the principles of law arrived at after a detailed
analysis, the principles laid down in the judgment of the Constitution Bench
of this Court inGurbux Singh v. Bhooralal [AIR 1964 SC 1810] may be usefully
recalled below:
In order that a plea of a bar under O. 2. r. 2(3), Civil Procedure Code
should succeed the defendant who raises the plea must make out (1) that the
second suit was in respect of the same cause of action as that on which the
previous suit was based, (2) that in respect of that cause of action the
plaintiff was entitled to more than one relief, (3) that being thus entitled
to more than one relief the plaintiff, without leave obtained from the Court,
omitted to sue for the relief for which the second suit had been filed. From
this analysis it would be seen that the defendant would have to establish
primarily and to start with, the precise cause of action upon which the
previous suit was filed, for unless there is identity between the cause of
action on which the earlier suit was filed and that on which the claim in the
later suit is based there would be no scope for the application of the bar.
The above principles have been reiterated in several later judgments of this
Court. Reference by way of illustration may be made to the judgments Deva Ram
& Anr. v. Ishwar Chand & Anr.[1995 (6) SCC 723] and M/s. Bengal Waterproof
Ltd. v. M/s Bombay Waterproof Manufacturing Co.& Anr [AIR 1997 SC
1398=1997-2-LW 636]
11\. The cardinal requirement for application of the provisions contained in
Order II Rule 2(2) and (3), therefore, is that the cause of action in the
later suit must be the same as in the first suit. It will be wholly
unnecessary to enter into any discourse on the true meaning of the said
expression, i.e. cause of action, particularly, in view of the clear
enunciation in a recent judgment of this Court in the Church of Christ
Charitable Trust and Educational Charitable Society, represented by its
Chairman v. Ponniamman Educational Trust represented by its
Chairperson/Managing Trustee [JT 2012 (6) SC 149=2012-4-L.W.385]. The huge
number of opinions rendered on the issue including the judicial pronouncements
available does not fundamentally detract from what is stated in Halsburys Law
of England, (4th Edition). The following reference from the above work would,
therefore, be apt for being extracted hereinbelow:
Cause of Action has been defined as meaning simply a factual situation
existence of which entitles one person to obtain from the Court a remedy
against another person. The phrase has been held from earliest time to include
every fact which is material to be proved to entitle the plaintiff to succeed,
and every fact which a defendant would have a right to traverse. Cause of
action has also been taken to mean that particular action the part of the
defendant which gives the plaintiff his cause of complaint, or the subject-
matter of grievance founding the action, not merely the technical cause of
action."
12.In the instant case though leave to sue for the relief of specific
performance at a later stage was claimed by the plaintiff in C.S. Nos. 831 and
833 of 2005, admittedly, no such leave was granted by the Court. The question,
therefore, that the Court will have to address, in the present case, is
whether the cause of action for the first and second set of suits is one and
the same. Depending on such answer as the Court may offer the rights of the
parties will follow.
13\. A reading of the plaints filed in C.S. Nos. 831 and 833 of 2005 show
clear averments to the effect that after execution of the agreements of sale
dated 27.7.2005 the plaintiff received a letter dated 1.8.2005 from the
defendant conveying the information that the Central Excise Department was
contemplating issuance of a notice restraining alienation of the property. The
advance amounts paid by the plaintiff to the defendant by cheques were also
returned. According to the plaintiff it was surprised by the aforesaid stand
of the defendant who had earlier represented that it had clear and marketable
title to the property. In paragraph 5 of the plaint, it is stated that the
encumbrance certificate dated 22.8.2005 made available to the plaintiff did
not inspire confidence of the plaintiff as the same contained an entry dated
1.10.2004. The plaintiff, therefore, seriously doubted the claim made by the
defendant regarding the proceedings initiated by the Central Excise
Department. In the aforesaid paragraph of the plaint it was averred by the
plaintiff that the defendant is finding an excuse to cancel the sale
agreement and sell the property to some other third party. In the aforesaid
paragraph of the plaint, it was further stated that in this background, the
plaintiff submits that the defendant is attempting to frustrate the agreement
entered into between the parties.
14\. The averments made by the plaintiff in C.S. Nos. 831 and 833 of 2005,
particularly the pleadings extracted above, leave no room for doubt that on
the dates when C.S. Nos. 831 and 833 of 2005 were instituted, namely,
28.8.2005 and 9.9.2005, the plaintiff itself had claimed that facts and events
have occurred which entitled it to contend that the defendant had no intention
to honour the agreements dated 27.7.2005. In the aforesaid situation it was
open for the plaintiff to incorporate the relief of specific performance
alongwith the relief of permanent injunction that formed the subject matter of
above two suits. The foundation for the relief of permanent injunction claimed
in the two suits furnished a complete cause of action to the plaintiff in C.S.
Nos. 831 and 833 to also sue for the relief of specific performance. Yet, the
said relief was omitted and no leave in this regard was obtained or granted by
the Court.
15\. Furthermore, according to the plaintiff, which fact is also stated in the
plaints filed in C.S. Nos. 831 and 833, on the date when the aforesaid two
suits were filed the relief of specific performance was premature inasmuch as
the time for execution of the sale documents by the defendant in terms of the
agreements dated 27.7.2005 had not elapsed. According to the plaintiff, it is
only after the expiry of the aforesaid period of time and upon failure of the
defendant to execute the sale deeds despite the legal notice dated 24.2.2006
that the cause of action to claim the relief of specific performance had
accrued. The above stand of the plaintiff found favour with the High Court. We
disagree. A suit claiming a relief to which the plaintiff may become entitled
at a subsequent point of time, though may be termed as premature, yet, can not
per se be dismissed to be presented on a future date. There is no universal
rule to the above effect inasmuch as the question of a suit being premature
does not go to the root of the jurisdiction of the Court as held by this
Court in Vithalbhai (P) Ltd. v. Union Bank of India[2005(4) scc 315 =
2006-1-L.W.1]. In the aforesaid case this Court has taken the view that
whether a premature suit is required to be entertained or not is a question of
discretion and unless there is a mandatory bar created by a statute which
disables the plaintiff from filing the suit on or before a particular date or
the occurrence of a particular event, the Court must weigh and balance the
several competing factors that are required to be considered including the
question as to whether any useful purpose would be served by dismissing the
suit as premature as the same would entitle the plaintiff to file a fresh suit
on a subsequent date. We may usefully add in this connection that there is no
provision in the Specific Relief Act, 1963 requiring a plaintiff claiming the
relief of specific performance to wait for expiry of the due date for
performance of the agreement in a situation where the defendant may have made
his intentions clear by his overt acts.
16\. The learned Single Judge of the High Court had considered, and very
rightly, to be bound to follow an earlier Division Bench order in the case of
R.Vimalchand and M.Ratanchand v. Ramalingam, T.Srinivasalu & T.
Venkatesaperumal (supra) holding that the provisions of Order II Rule 2 of the
CPC would be applicable only when the first suit is disposed of. As in the
present case the second set of suits were filed during the pendency of the
earlier suits, it was held, on the ratio of the aforesaid decision of the
Division Bench of the High Court, that the provisions of Order II, Rule 2(3)
will not be attracted. Judicial discipline required the learned Single Judge
of the High Court to come to the aforesaid conclusion. However, we are unable
to agree with the same in view of the object behind the enactment of the
provisions of Order II Rule 2 of the CPC as already discussed by us, namely,
that Order II Rule 2 of the CPC seeks to avoid multiplicity of litigations on
same cause of action. If that is the true object of the law, on which we do
not entertain any doubt, the same would not stand fully subserved by holding
that the provisions of Order II Rule 2 of the CPC will apply only if the first
suit is disposed of and not in a situation where the second suit has been
filed during the pendency of the first suit. Rather, Order II, Rule 2 of the
CPC will apply to both the aforesaid situations. Though direct judicial
pronouncements on the issue are somewhat scarce, we find that a similar view
had been taken in a decision of the High Court at Allahabad in Murti v. Bhola
Ram [(1894) ILR 16 All 165] and by the Bombay High Court in Krishnaji
v.Raghunath [AIR 1954 BOM 125]"
18\. With due respect after following the above Judgment this Court holds that
the present suit filed by the appellant/plaintiff without obtaining the
permission under Order II Rule 2 is not sustainable under law.
19.This Court already decided above that time is not essence of the contract
after taking into consideration of the loan amount final payment was effected
on 16.11.2001 under Ex.A22, pending suit filed by the plaintiff and also the
Sale Deed executed by the authorities on 30.11.1989 with regard to the
schedule of property in favour of the defendant was handed over to the custody
of the plaintiff and hence it can be easily concluded that the
appellant/plaintiff is always ready and willing to perform his part of
contract and the respondent/defendant has denied the execution of Sale Deed is
not true, bonafide and correct one and the suit filed by the plaintiff on
16.06.1994 is in time and not barred by limitation. Hence, the 2nd and 3rd
substantial questions of law are decided as against the appellant/plaintiff
and in favour of the respondent/defendant.
20.In view of the discussions made and the decisions arrived at, and the suit
filed by the appellant/plaintiff is barred under Order II Rule 2 in the light
of the earlier suit filed in O.S.No.720/1990 and hence the 4th substantial
question of law is decided as against the appellant/plaintiff and in favour of
the respondent/defendant.
21.Though A1 Sale Agreement is true, valid and genuine and a bonafide document
for valuable consideration and in the light, of the 4th question of law is
decided as against the appellant/plaintiff and in favour of the
respondent/defendant, the appellant/plaintiff is not entitled to a relief of
specific performance of contract and hence the 1st substantial question of law
also decided as against the appellant/plaintiff and in favour of the
respondent/defendant.
In the result this Second Appeal is dismissed after confirming the concurrent
Judgments of the Courts below in A.S.No.63 of 2003 dated 13.04.2005 and
O.S.No. 32 of 1999 dated 26.09.2002. The parties are directed to bear their
own costs.
sd/adl/arr To
1\. The Principal District Court, Salem.
2\. The Sub Court Mettur
and in favour of the respondent/defendant.
20.In view of the discussions made and the decisions arrived at, and the suit
filed by the appellant/plaintiff is barred under Order II Rule 2 in the light
of the earlier suit filed in O.S.No.720/1990 and hence the 4th substantial
question of law is decided as against the appellant/plaintiff and in favour of
the respondent/defendant.
21.Though A1 Sale Agreement is true, valid and genuine and a bonafide document
for valuable consideration and in the light, of the 4th question of law is
decided as against the appellant/plaintiff and in favour of the
respondent/defendant, the appellant/plaintiff is not entitled to a relief of
specific performance of contract and hence the 1st substantial question of law
also decided as against the appellant/plaintiff and in favour of the
respondent/defendant.
In the result this Second Appeal is dismissed after confirming the concurrent
Judgments of the Courts below in A.S.No.63 of 2003 dated 13.04.2005 and
O.S.No. 32 of 1999 dated 26.09.2002. The parties are directed to bear their
2\. For better appreciation of this appeal, the brief averments of the plaint
as well as the written statement are re-produced hereunder:-
i) The brief averments of the plaint are as follows:-
The plaintiff is none other than the brother of the defendant. The suit
property, situated in the Industrial Estates, Mettur, was allotted by the
Tamil Nadu Small Industries Development Corporation Ltd., to the defendant.
During the time of allotment, the defendant is employed in Malco Mettur. In
the middle of the year, 1989, since the defendant was not able to run the
Unit, he approached the plaintiff and expressed his desire to sell the Unit to
him. Thereafter, both the defendant and the plaintiff entered into an
agreement for sale of the suit property for a sum of Rs.1,74,001/- on
06.09.1989. As per the said agreement, the defendant received a sum of
Rs.630/- as advance and the plaintiff has to pay the balance sale price of
Rs.1,67,700/. The defendant had obtained a loan for a sum of Rs.1,00,000/-
from Tamil Nadu Industrial Investment Corporation ( for short 'TIIC') and the
said amount has to be paid by the defendant, either in installments or in
total. The defendant has to pay a sum of Rs.2,700/- to SIDCO and the same has
to be paid by the plaintiff. The plaintiff has to pay Rs.25,000/- on
30.09.1989, and Rs.40,000/- on 30.11.1989, to the defendant and as per the
agreement, if the plaintiff fails to make the payment on or before 30.11.1989,
and in favour of the respondent/defendant.
20.In view of the discussions made and the decisions arrived at, and the suit
filed by the appellant/plaintiff is barred under Order II Rule 2 in the light
of the earlier suit filed in O.S.No.720/1990 and hence the 4th substantial
question of law is decided as against the appellant/plaintiff and in favour of
the respondent/defendant.
21.Though A1 Sale Agreement is true, valid and genuine and a bonafide document
for valuable consideration and in the light, of the 4th question of law is
decided as against the appellant/plaintiff and in favour of the
respondent/defendant, the appellant/plaintiff is not entitled to a relief of
specific performance of contract and hence the 1st substantial question of law
also decided as against the appellant/plaintiff and in favour of the
respondent/defendant.
In the result this Second Appeal is dismissed after confirming the concurrent
Judgments of the Courts below in A.S.No.63 of 2003 dated 13.04.2005 and
O.S.No. 32 of 1999 dated 26.09.2002. The parties are directed to bear their
2\. For better appreciation of this appeal, the brief averments of the plaint
as well as the written statement are re-produced hereunder:-
i) The brief averments of the plaint are as follows:-
The plaintiff is none other than the brother of the defendant. The suit
property, situated in the Industrial Estates, Mettur, was allotted by the
Tamil Nadu Small Industries Development Corporation Ltd., to the defendant.
During the time of allotment, the defendant is employed in Malco Mettur. In
the middle of the year, 1989, since the defendant was not able to run the
Unit, he approached the plaintiff and expressed his desire to sell the Unit to
him. Thereafter, both the defendant and the plaintiff entered into an
agreement for sale of the suit property for a sum of Rs.1,74,001/- on
06.09.1989. As per the said agreement, the defendant received a sum of
Rs.630/- as advance and the plaintiff has to pay the balance sale price of
Rs.1,67,700/. The defendant had obtained a loan for a sum of Rs.1,00,000/-
from Tamil Nadu Industrial Investment Corporation ( for short 'TIIC') and the
said amount has to be paid by the defendant, either in installments or in
total. The defendant has to pay a sum of Rs.2,700/- to SIDCO and the same has
to be paid by the plaintiff. The plaintiff has to pay Rs.25,000/- on
30.09.1989, and Rs.40,000/- on 30.11.1989, to the defendant and as per the
agreement, if the plaintiff fails to make the payment on or before 30.11.1989,
and in favour of the respondent/defendant.
20.In view of the discussions made and the decisions arrived at, and the suit
filed by the appellant/plaintiff is barred under Order II Rule 2 in the light
of the earlier suit filed in O.S.No.720/1990 and hence the 4th substantial
question of law is decided as against the appellant/plaintiff and in favour of
the respondent/defendant.
21.Though A1 Sale Agreement is true, valid and genuine and a bonafide document
for valuable consideration and in the light, of the 4th question of law is
decided as against the appellant/plaintiff and in favour of the
respondent/defendant, the appellant/plaintiff is not entitled to a relief of
specific performance of contract and hence the 1st substantial question of law
also decided as against the appellant/plaintiff and in favour of the
respondent/defendant.
In the result this Second Appeal is dismissed after confirming the concurrent
Judgments of the Courts below in A.S.No.63 of 2003 dated 13.04.2005 and
O.S.No. 32 of 1999 dated 26.09.2002. The parties are directed to bear their
2\. For better appreciation of this appeal, the brief averments of the plaint
as well as the written statement are re-produced hereunder:-
i) The brief averments of the plaint are as follows:-
The plaintiff is none other than the brother of the defendant. The suit
property, situated in the Industrial Estates, Mettur, was allotted by the
Tamil Nadu Small Industries Development Corporation Ltd., to the defendant.
During the time of allotment, the defendant is employed in Malco Mettur. In
the middle of the year, 1989, since the defendant was not able to run the
Unit, he approached the plaintiff and expressed his desire to sell the Unit to
him. Thereafter, both the defendant and the plaintiff entered into an
agreement for sale of the suit property for a sum of Rs.1,74,001/- on
06.09.1989. As per the said agreement, the defendant received a sum of
Rs.630/- as advance and the plaintiff has to pay the balance sale price of
Rs.1,67,700/. The defendant had obtained a loan for a sum of Rs.1,00,000/-
from Tamil Nadu Industrial Investment Corporation ( for short 'TIIC') and the
said amount has to be paid by the defendant, either in installments or in
total. The defendant has to pay a sum of Rs.2,700/- to SIDCO and the same has
to be paid by the plaintiff. The plaintiff has to pay Rs.25,000/- on
30.09.1989, and Rs.40,000/- on 30.11.1989, to the defendant and as per the
agreement, if the plaintiff fails to make the payment on or before 30.11.1989,
or if he fails to make the loan of Rs.1,00,000/- to TIIC, the agreement will
be declared as null and void and the amount paid by the plaintiff will not be
paid off. On the date of agreement itself, possession of the suit property was
handedover to the plaintiff. As per the terms of the agreement, the plaintiff
paid Rs.25,000/- on 3.12.1989, Rs.5,000/- on 5.12.1989 and Rs.10,000/- on
17.12.1989, and for the said payments made by the plaintiff, endorsements were
also made in the agreement. Time is not the essence of contract, since the
both the parties agreed that the loan payable to TIIC has to be paid by the
plaintiff either in installments or in total. From 6.9.1989, the plaintiff is
in possession of the suit property and has been running a contract business
under the name and style "Vellavan Engineering Contractors". As per the terms
and in favour of the respondent/defendant.
20.In view of the discussions made and the decisions arrived at, and the suit
filed by the appellant/plaintiff is barred under Order II Rule 2 in the light
of the earlier suit filed in O.S.No.720/1990 and hence the 4th substantial
question of law is decided as against the appellant/plaintiff and in favour of
the respondent/defendant.
21.Though A1 Sale Agreement is true, valid and genuine and a bonafide document
for valuable consideration and in the light, of the 4th question of law is
decided as against the appellant/plaintiff and in favour of the
respondent/defendant, the appellant/plaintiff is not entitled to a relief of
specific performance of contract and hence the 1st substantial question of law
also decided as against the appellant/plaintiff and in favour of the
respondent/defendant.
In the result this Second Appeal is dismissed after confirming the concurrent
Judgments of the Courts below in A.S.No.63 of 2003 dated 13.04.2005 and
O.S.No. 32 of 1999 dated 26.09.2002. The parties are directed to bear their
2\. For better appreciation of this appeal, the brief averments of the plaint
as well as the written statement are re-produced hereunder:-
i) The brief averments of the plaint are as follows:-
The plaintiff is none other than the brother of the defendant. The suit
property, situated in the Industrial Estates, Mettur, was allotted by the
Tamil Nadu Small Industries Development Corporation Ltd., to the defendant.
During the time of allotment, the defendant is employed in Malco Mettur. In
the middle of the year, 1989, since the defendant was not able to run the
Unit, he approached the plaintiff and expressed his desire to sell the Unit to
him. Thereafter, both the defendant and the plaintiff entered into an
agreement for sale of the suit property for a sum of Rs.1,74,001/- on
06.09.1989. As per the said agreement, the defendant received a sum of
Rs.630/- as advance and the plaintiff has to pay the balance sale price of
Rs.1,67,700/. The defendant had obtained a loan for a sum of Rs.1,00,000/-
from Tamil Nadu Industrial Investment Corporation ( for short 'TIIC') and the
said amount has to be paid by the defendant, either in installments or in
total. The defendant has to pay a sum of Rs.2,700/- to SIDCO and the same has
to be paid by the plaintiff. The plaintiff has to pay Rs.25,000/- on
30.09.1989, and Rs.40,000/- on 30.11.1989, to the defendant and as per the
agreement, if the plaintiff fails to make the payment on or before 30.11.1989,
or if he fails to make the loan of Rs.1,00,000/- to TIIC, the agreement will
be declared as null and void and the amount paid by the plaintiff will not be
paid off. On the date of agreement itself, possession of the suit property was
handedover to the plaintiff. As per the terms of the agreement, the plaintiff
paid Rs.25,000/- on 3.12.1989, Rs.5,000/- on 5.12.1989 and Rs.10,000/- on
17.12.1989, and for the said payments made by the plaintiff, endorsements were
also made in the agreement. Time is not the essence of contract, since the
both the parties agreed that the loan payable to TIIC has to be paid by the
plaintiff either in installments or in total. From 6.9.1989, the plaintiff is
in possession of the suit property and has been running a contract business
under the name and style "Vellavan Engineering Contractors". As per the terms
and in favour of the respondent/defendant.
20.In view of the discussions made and the decisions arrived at, and the suit
filed by the appellant/plaintiff is barred under Order II Rule 2 in the light
of the earlier suit filed in O.S.No.720/1990 and hence the 4th substantial
question of law is decided as against the appellant/plaintiff and in favour of
the respondent/defendant.
21.Though A1 Sale Agreement is true, valid and genuine and a bonafide document
for valuable consideration and in the light, of the 4th question of law is
decided as against the appellant/plaintiff and in favour of the
respondent/defendant, the appellant/plaintiff is not entitled to a relief of
specific performance of contract and hence the 1st substantial question of law
also decided as against the appellant/plaintiff and in favour of the
respondent/defendant.
In the result this Second Appeal is dismissed after confirming the concurrent
Judgments of the Courts below in A.S.No.63 of 2003 dated 13.04.2005 and
O.S.No. 32 of 1999 dated 26.09.2002. The parties are directed to bear their
