Delhi High Court
V.K. Constructions Works Ltd. vs The Bank Of Rajasthen Ltd. And Anr. on 29
May, 1992
Equivalent citations: II (1992) BC 344, 48 (1992) DLT 468, 1992 (23) DRJ 371
Author: A Kumar
Bench: A Kumar
JUDGMENT Arun Kumar, J.
(1) This order will dispose of the interim applications filed by the plaintiff
in the above suits to restrain the defendant from encashing the bank
guarantees furnished by the plaintiff in pursuance of the contract between the
parties. These are six suits filed by the plaintiff M/s V.K. Constructions
Works Ltd. against the Army Welfare Housing Organisation. There are six
Independent contracts between the parties and therefore these six suits. In
each case there are two applications by the plaintiff regarding relief of
injunction sought by the plaintiff against encashment of bank guarantees by
the defendant. This order will dispose of all the 12 applications. Two sets of
bank guarantees are involved. One set is regarding bank guarantees for the due
repayment of the mobilization advance. The other set of bank guarantees is
that of the performance guarantees. The Bank of Rajasthan Ltd., Panchsheel
Park, New Delhi has furnished all the bank guarantees. The letters of
plaintiff should not be made to suffer. I do not consider that such instances
as urged by the plaintiff fall within the category of special equities carved
out as an exception to the rule in favor of encashment of bank guarantees.
Secondly, the language of the bank guarantee in question makes the defendant
as the sole judge of breach of contract and the amount to be claimed for this.
Therefore, there is no scope for any one else to consider any mitigating
circumstances. The contract provision supercedes everything. The contention of
the counsel for the plaintiff that there are special equities requiring an
injunction to the bank or the defendant restraining encashment of the bank
guarantees cannot be sustained.
(34) It follows from the above discussion that so far as the performance
guarantees are concerned, the plaintiff is not entitled to any relief and to
this extent the prayer of the plaintiff in the interim applications stands
rejected.
(35) However, the defendant is restrained from encashing the bank guarantees
furnished to it by the plaintiff to cover the mobilisation advances on the
Park, New Delhi has furnished all the bank guarantees. The letters of
invocation of bank guarantees are similar in language and content in all the
cases, except for the variation in the amounts. The language of the bank
guarantees to cover the mobilization advance is identical in all the cases
except variation in the amounts. Similarly the language of the performance
guarantees is similar in all the cases except the variation in the amounts,
therefore, all these cases raise py?3 common questions of fact and law and the
injunction applications are being disposed of by this common order.
(2) Out of the six suits, four suits being Suit No.3866/91, 3867/91, 3868/91
and 3870/91 are petitions under Section 20 of the Arbitration Act in which
applications have been filed under Section 41 read with Schedule Ii of the
Arbitration Act for interim orders. The other two suits being Suit No-3663/91
and 3664/91 are suits for permanent injunction in which injunction
applications have been Filed under Order 39, Rules 1 and 2 of the Code of
Civil Procedure. The two other injunction suits were filed in this court on
27th November 1991 while the four suits under the Arbitration Act were filed
on 9th December 1991.
(3) The defendant is an organization for the welfare of Army Officers. It has
undertaken the work of construction of dwelling units for its members. The
plaintiff is a contractor and it undertook the work of construction of various
dwelling units on behalf of the defendant at its various sites. Separate,
though similar, agreements were entered into between the parties, with respect
to each site. Thus there are in all six agreements regarding which six suits
have been filed in this court Each contract contains an arbitration clause.
The contracts also contain p73 clauses under which bank guarantees are to be
furnished by the contractor in favor of the employer. The contractor who is
the plaintiff in these proceedings furnished various bank guarantees in
pursuance of the contract provisions. The defendant/employer issued separate
demand notices to the bank in relation to each bank guarantee invoking bank
guarantees and calling upon the bank to pay the amounts under the bank
guarantees. These notices were issued on 19th November 1991 and 5th December
1991. The language of the notices is identical. During the pendency of these
proceedings initially counsel for the defendant, i.e. the A.W.H.O. had made a
statement that the bank guarantees will not be encashed till next date.
Counsel for the plaintiff had undertaken to keep the bank guarantees alive.
However, the statement regarding not encashing the bank guarantees was not
extended after a few hearings and when in February 1992 the defendant took
steps to encash the bank guarantees, the plaintiff Filed fresh sets of
applications in these cases for injunction to restrain the defendant from
encashing the bank guarantees. These fresh application were taken up for
hearing and arguments continued almost day to day with effect from 27th
February 1992. Though no formal order was recorded regarding non-encashment of
the bank guarantees involved 83 till the disposal of these various
applications, counsel for the defendant had assured the Court that till
disposal of these applications the defendant will not seek for encashment of
the bank guarantees.
(4) Two affidavits dated 3rd March 1992 and 24th March 1992 filed on record on
behalf of the defendant show that on 26/27th February 1992 the defendant had
in fact tried to encash all the bank guarantees involved in these cases and
held discussions with the bank for this purpose. The defendant also handed
over to the bank further letters of demand dated 27th February 1992 in
continuation of their previous letters of demand served on the bank. By the
subsequent letters of demand, the defendant has tried to make the notice of
demand in accordance with the terms of the bank guarantee in order to cover up
the lacunae in its initial notice of demand. In response to this notice of
demand the bank issued a composite letter dated 9th March 1992 covering all
the bank guarantees. A photo copy of the said letter has been placed on record
Along with affidavit of the defendant dated 24th March 1992. In the said
letter the bank has finally said "we may further make it clear that we have no
interest in the above mentioned suits which pertain to disputes purely between
you and the Contractor. Since the guarantees have now been properly invoked on
27.2.1992. payment thereof will be made immediately as per the directions of
the Court". This letter is addressed by the bank to the defendant.
(6) The relevant clauses of the contract under which the bank guarantees were
furnished are reproduced as under:-
"104.The contractor shall furnish within a period of thirty days of acceptance
of his tender, a bank guarantee bond on a Nationalised Bank for an amount
equal to two per cent of the contract amount subject to a maximum of Rupees
One lacs as performance guarantee on the form as approved by the Employer.
Validity of this bank guarantee should cover the entire contract period plus
twelve months as defect liability period as per clause 98. On receipt of
performance guarantee, the earnest money submitted Along with the tender shall
be refunded. In case the completion period gets extended under clause 92 or
for any other reason then the contractor shall arrange extension of validity
of bank guarantee period up to 12 months beyond this date of completion.
107.Advance - At the request of the contractor an advance to a maximum of 5%
(Five Percent) of the contract amount against bank guarantee from a
nationalised bank shall be paid by the employer. This advance shall bear an
interest at Eighteen Percent per annum. This advance would be given in two
Installments and their recovery from the contractor shall be done as under :-
a) First Installment - 50% of the total advance due shall be paid after the
contractor's progress or works (excluding cost of material lying at site) is
more than 10%. b) Second Installment - 50% of the total advance due shall be
paid after the contractoir's progress on works (excluding cost of material
lying at site) 'is more than 65%. c) Amount of first Installment of advance
shall be recovered in eight equal monthly Installments starting from
subsequent Ra payment and second Installment shall be recovered in five equal
monthly Installments in the subsequent Ra payments.
The plaintiff availed all the mobilization advances and the bank guarantees in
relation to mobilization advance are involved in four matters bearing Suit
Nos. 3663/91. 3664/91. 3866/91 and 3870/91, while the performance guarantees
arc involved in all the suits. It is necessary to quote the bank guarantees in
order to appreciate the controversy involved. The bank guarantee in relation
to mobilization advance is in following terms:
"BANKGUARANTEE The Managing Director, Army Welfare Housing Organisation, Room
No.50, South Hutments, Kashmir House, Raja ji Marg, Dhq Po, New Delhi-110011,
Dear Sir, Contract Agreement No. AWHC/NOIDA/11/89 -phase xviii M/s V. K.
Construction Works Ltd., 42, Community Centre, Friends Colony. New Delhi. 1.
The tender conditions of contract provide that on request an advance equal to
Five Percent of contract amount i.e. Rs.1.83,54,360.00 shall be paid to the
contractor by Army Welfare housing Organisation against surety in the form of
a Scheduled Bank. 2. The said M/s V.K.Construction Works Ltd., New Delhi has
approached us and at their request and in consideration of the promises, we.
the Bank of Rajasthan Ltd., having our office at Panchsheel Park. New Delhi,
have agreed to give such surety as is hereinafter mentioned in your favor. 3.
We. the Bank of Rajasthan Ltd., having our office at Panchsheel Park
(hereinafter called She "Surety" do hereby agree to give through this
irrevocable guarantee to you the due payment of the said sum or Rs.4,58.000/ -
(Rupees four lacs fifty eight thousand only), by the contractor to you in
terms of the said contract conditions and we as surety undertake and agree
with you that if default is made by the said M/s V.K.Constniction Works Ltd..
New Delhi i.e. the contractor does not refund the said advance in the terms
and conditions of the contract. We shall on demand pay to you without any
protest, delay or demur and without any reference of any kind whatsoever to
the contractor in such manner as you may direct the said amount of
Rs.4,58,000.00 (Rupees four lacs fifty eight thousand only) or such portion
thereof not exceeding the said sum as you may require or is payable to you by
the contractor for all or any such default you can look to us as the principal
debtor without any reference whatsoever to the contractor. 4. You will have
the full liberty without reference to us and without affecting this guarantee,
postpone for any time or from time to time the exercise of any of the powers
and rights conferred on you under the said contract with the said M/s
V.K.Constniction Works Ltd., New Delhi and to enforce or to forbear from
enforcing any powers or rights or by reasons of time being given to the said
M/s V. K.- Construction Works Ltd.. New Delhi which under law relating to the
sureties would but for the provision have the effect of releasing us. Any such
time, /indulgence/ forbearance and/or any act or commission or commission on
your part will not violate our this guarantee. 5, Your right to recover the
said sum of Rs.4,58. 000.00 (Rupees four lacs fifty eight thousand only) from
us in manner aforesaid will not be affected or suspended by reason of the fact
that any dispute or disputes have been raised by the said M/s V.K.Construction
Works Ltd., and/ or that any dispute or disputes are pending before any
officer Tribunal, Court Arbitrator/Umpire. 6. The guarantee herein contained
shall not be determined or affected by the liquidation or winding up.
dissolution or change of constitution or insolvency of the said M/s
V.K.Construction Works Ltd., New Delhi. but shall in all respects and for all
purposes be binding and operative until full payment of all money due to you
in respect of such liability or liabilities is received by you as if is is a
continuing guarantee to secure your ultimate dues in the promises. 7. We have
power to issue this guarantee in your favor under memorandum and Articles of
Association and the undersigned has full power to do under the Power of
Attorney No.A-299 granted to him by the bank. 8. We will have no right of
subrogation against the contractor unless all your dues and aforesaid are paid
in full. We do hereby waive our rights of suretyship which are inconsistent
with all or any provisions hereof. 9. You will be at liberty to alter the
terms of said contract and/or take any other security/guarantee/promissory
notes from the contractor or others which will not effect/vitiate discharge
our this guarantee. 10. This guarantee will bind our successors and assignees
and your successors and assignees and will remain operative irrespective of
any change in the constitution of our bank and/or the contractor. 11. Our
liability under this guarantee is restricted to Rs.4,58,000.00 (Rupees four
lacs fifty eight thousand only) and this guarantee shall remain in force until
and unless a claim to enforce this guarantee is filed with us within one month
from 11.12.1991 which is date of expiry of guarantee) all your rights under
the said guarantee shall be forefeited and we shall be relieved and discharged
from all liabilities there under. 12. We agree with you that in case we fail
or neglect to honour our part of obligation and commit any breach in the terms
and conditions of this irrevocable guarantee, we the surety, shall be liable
to pay you damaged in addition to the amount guaranteed under this deed
together with legal, miscellaneous and administrative expenses incurred by you
in enforcing this guarantee against us. We further agree with you that you
shall be the sole judge and your decision in this regard shall be the final
and conclusively binding on us and we shall have no right to question the same
on any ground whatsoever. 13. For the purpose of enforcing legal
rights/remedies under this guarantee we agree with you that the Courts in the
State of Delhi shall have exclusive jurisdiction. Yours faithfully for The
Bank of Rajasthan sd/- Manager.Panchsheel Park. New Delhi."
(7) The performance guarantee is in the following terms:- "THE Managing
Director, Army Welfare Housing Organisation, Room No.50, Southern Hutments.
Raja ji Marg. Dhq Po New Delhi/110001. Dear Sir, Contract Agreement
NO.AWHQ/NOIDA/ 11/89 with M/s V.K.Construction Works Ltd., Principal office.
42, Community Centre, New Friends Colony, New Delhi Regd.Office at 1142,
Sector 15-B. Chandigarh. The tender conditions of contract provide inter alia
that the contractor shall pay you a sum of Rs.1,00,000.00 (Rupees one lac
only) as security on account of the amount covered by a performance guarantee
in the manner and subject to the terms therein mentioned. This performance
guarantee includes an undertaking on our part to pay on demand to you the sum
of Rs.1,00,000.00 (Rupees one lac only) in the event of the said contractor
having incurred forefeiture of the amount as aforesaid for breach of any of
the terms and conditions and stipulations as aforesaid and contained in the
said agreement without recourse to clause 104 of the said agreement. The said
M/s V.K.Construction Works Ltd., Chandigarh has approached us and as their
request and in consideration of the premises, we the Bank of Rajasthan Ltd.,
Panchsheel Park, New Delhi having our registered office at Clock Tower,
Udaipur, have agreed to give such guarantee as is hereinafter mentioned in
your favor. 1. We, the Bank of Rajasthan Ltd., having our office at Panchsheel
Park, New Delhi (hereinafter called "the surety") do hereby irrevocable
guarantee to you the due payment of the said sum of Rs.1,00,000.00 )(Rupees
one lac only) by the contractor to you in terms of the said contract
conditions and their due performance of the obligation in this behalf and we
as surety undertake and agree with you that if default is made by the said M/s
V.K.Construction Works Ltd., New Delhi i.e. the contractor in performing any
of the terms of conditions of the contract or in payment of any money payable
to you under the contract of which the Army Welfare Housing Organisation shall
be the sold judge and its decision communicated to us in this regard shall be
final and conclusively binding on us, it shall not be open to us to ask you
reasons/details in this regard and we shall have no right to question the same
or make reference to the contractor in amy manner whatsoever. We shall on
demand pay to you without any protest, delay or demur and without any
reference of my kind whatsoever to the contractor in such manner as you may
direct the said amount of Rupees one lac only or such portion thereof not
exceeding the said sum as you may from time to lime require or is payable to
you by the contractor for all or any such default you can look to us as the
principal debtor without any reference whatsoever to the contractor. 2. You
will have the full liberty without reference to us and without affecting this
guarantee, postpone for any time or from time to time the exercise of any of
the powers and rights conferred on you under the said con p73 tract with the
said M/s V.K.Construction Works Ltd.. New Delhi and to enforce or to forbear
from enforcing any powers or rights orby reasons of time being given to the
said M/s V.K.Construction Works Ltd., New Delhi which under law relating to
the sureties would but for the provision have the effect of releasing us. Any
such time Jindulgence/forbearance and/or any act or commission or commission
on your part will not violate our this guarantee. 3. Your right to recover the
said sum of Rs.1,00.000.00 (Rupees one lac only) from us in manner aforesaid
will not be affected or suspended by reason of the fact that any dispute or
disputes have been raised by the said M/s V.K.Construction Works Ltd., and/or
that any dispute or disputes are pending before any officer Tribunal. Court
Arbitrator/Umpire. 4. The guarantee herein contained shall not be determined
or affected by the liquidation or winding up, dissolution or change of
constitution or insolvency of the said M/s V.K.Construction Works Ltd., New
Delhi, but shall in all respects and for all purposes be binding and operative
until full payment of all money due to you in respect of such liability or
liabilities is received by you as if this is a continuing guarantee to secure
your ultimate dues in the promises. 5. We have power to issue this guarantee
in your favor under memorandum and articles of Association and the undersigned
has full power to do under the power of Attorney No. A-299 granted to him by
the bank. 6. We will have no right of subrogation against the contractor
unless all your dues and aforesaid are paid in full. We do hereby waive our
rights of suretyship which arc inconsistent with all or any provisions hereof.
7. You will be at liberty to alter the terms of said contract and/or take any
other security/guarantee/promissory notes from the contractor or others which
will not effect/vitiate discharge our this guarantee. 8. This guarantee will
bind our successors and assignees and your successors and assignees and will
remain operative irrespective of any change in the constitution of our bank
and/or the contractor. 9. Our liability under this guarantee is restricted to
Rs. 1.00.000.00 (Rupees one lac only) and this guarantee shall remain in force
until and unless a claim to enforce this guarantee is filed with us within one
month from 31.03.1992 which is date of expiry of guarantee) all your rights
under the said guarantee shall be forfeited and we shall be relieved and
discharged from all liabilities there under. 10. We agree with you that in
case we fail or neglect to honour our part of obligation and commit any breach
in the terms and conditions of this irrevocable guarantee, we the surety,
shall be liable to pay you damages in addition to the amount guaranteed under
this deed together with legal. miscellaneous and administrative expenses
incurred by you in enforcing this guarantee against us. We further agree with
you that you shall be the sole judge and your decision in this regard shall be
the final and conclusively binding on us and we shall have no right to
question the same on any ground whatsoever. 11. For the purpose of enforcing
legal rights/remedies under this guarantee we agree with you that the Courts
in the State of Delhi shall have exclusive jurisdiction. Yours faithfully for
The Bank of Rajasthan sd/- Manager, Panchsheel Park, New Delhi."
(8) The language of the letter regarding invocation of the bank guarantee is
also reproduced as under:- "DEARSir, 1. Whereas you have furnished a Bank
Guarantee bond bearing number 61/91 dated 15 April.91 for Rs.4,58.000.00
(Rupees four lacs fifty eight thousand only) in view of advance paid by Army
Welfare Housing Organisation against contract Agreement NO.AWHO/NOIDA/ 11/89
made between the Managing Director Army Welfare Housing Organisation and M/s
V.K. Construction Works Ltd., contractor against which a claim to enforce this
guarantee can be filed with you within one month from 11th December,91 and up
to 11th Jan,1992. Clause 11 of the Bank Guarantee refers. 2. And Whereas it is
expressly provided in the aforesaid guarantee bond that you undertake to pay
the amount due and payable under the guarantee without any protest, delay or
demur, merely on a demand from the Army Welfare Housing Organisation. 4. I, on
behalf of Army Welfare Housing Organisation, hereby serve you with this notice
of demand of Rupees four lacs and fifty eight thousand only against the
aforesaid bank guarantee. 5. The amount may please be remitted in the form of
bank draft in favor of Managing Director, Army Welfare Housing Organisation,
New Delhi. Yours faithfully, sd/- (G K Sen ) Maj. Gen. (Retd.) Managing
Director"
(9) The subsequent letters of demand regarding invocation of the bank
guarantee are reproduced as under:-
(RE:-Mobilization advance) Dear Sir. 1. Reference our letter No.B/03020/
cont/CA-11-89/NOIDA/AWHO (ii) dated 19th November 1991. letter
No.B/03020/cont/CA-11-89/NOIDA/ AWHO(ii) dated 26.2.1992 and discussion with
Shri Sharda your branch Manager and Shn M.L.Seth of your Regional Office, at
New Delhi on 26th February. 1992. 2. As per your requirement regarding clause
3 of the bank guarantee communicated verbally during above discussions, it is
intimated that M/s V.K.Construction Works Ltd. has defaulted regarding refund
of advance of Rs.4.58 lacs in terms of the conditions of the contract
agreement. Therefore, the bank guarantee has been invoked and demand placed on
you. The clause 3 further lays down that on demand, you shall pay to Army
Welfare Housing Organisation without any protest, delay or demur and without
any reference of any kind whatsoever So the contractor. 3. Please note that
you are delaying the encashment of the bank guarantee on some pretext or the
other inspite of our officers (Col.Sachdev and Col.Dham) meeting you since
25th February 1992 and our earlier communications. Any loss occurring to our
organisation on account of this delay will be on your account. 4. You are
again requested to make the payment of Rs.4.58 lacs as demanded forthwith.
Yours faithfully, sd/- (MML Sharma) Maj. Gen. M.D., AWHO"
(RE-:Performance guarantee) Dear Sir, 1. Reference our letter No.B/03020/
cont/CA-11-89/NOIDA/AWHO(ii) dated 19th November 1991, letter
No.B/03020/cont/CA-11-89/NOIDA/ AWHO(ii) dated 26.2.1992 and discussion with
Shri Sharda your branch Manager and Shn M.L. Seth of your Regional Office, at
New Delhi on 26th February, 1992. 2. in terms of clause I of the bank
guarantee. Army Welfare Housing Organisation is the sold judge to decide the
invoking of the bank guarantee and this decision to invoke the bank guarantee
has been communicated to you vide our letter dated 19th November,1991 referred
above. As per terms of bank guarantee, this decision is final and conclusively
binding on you. However, as per your requirement communicated verbally during
discussion on 26.2.1992. it is intimated that M/s V.K.Constniction Works Ltd.
has defaulted in the performance of his obligations under contract agreement
number AWHO/NOIDA/11/89 therefore, the said contract has been cancelled and it
has been decided to invoke the bank guarantee. 3. Please note that you are
delaying the encashment of the bank guarantee on some pretext or the other
inspite of our officers (Col. Sachdev and Col.Dham) meeting you since 25th
February, 1992 and our earlier communications. Any loss occurring to our
organisation on account of this delay will be on your account. 4. You are
again requested to make the payment of Rs.4.58 lacs as demanded forthwith.
Yours faithfully. sd/- (MML Sharma) Maj.Gen. M.D., AWHO"
(10) It will be seen from the above facts that the subsequent letters of
demand regarding encashment of the bank guarantees were issued by the
defendant only on 27th February 1992 and. therefore, the copies thereof were
placed on record during the course of hearing of this matter. Counsel for the
plaintiff who during his opening arguments naturally argued on the basis of
the notices of demand dated 19-11-91/5-12-91 and his major argument in
relation to this notice was that the demand was not in accordance with the
terms of the bank guarantee and, therefore, the defendant was not entitled to
encash the bank guarantees. The initial notice of demand reproduced
hereinabove shows that (he defendant merely stated in the notice that (he bank
had undertaken to pay the amount under the bank guarantee without any protest,
delay or demur merely on demand from the defendant and on that basis the
defendant merely demanded the amount under the bank guarantee from the bank
without saying anything more. Counsel for the plaintiff urged that regarding
the bank guarantee for the mobilization advance, least the defendant had to
say in the notice of demand was that the plaintiff had failed to refund the
amount of advance because non-refund of the advance is a condition of the
guarantee as is apparent from para 3 of the bank guarantee. The defendant did
not at all say in the notice that the plaintiff had failed to refund the money
or any part thereof. Regarding performance guarantee, again default on the
part of the plaintiff is an important pre-requisite for invocation of the bank
guarantee. Counsel for the plaintiff further submitted that the defendant may
be the sole judge regarding the default but the defendant has to communicate
to the bank that default has been committed by the plaintiff in performance of
his obligations under the contract. The notice of demand does not mention
anything about the default on the part of the plaintiff. The notice simply
makes a demand of the amount under the bank guarantee. Therefore, the
invocation of the bank guarantee according to the counsel for the plaintiff is
not in accordance with the terms of the bank guarantee and is. therefore, bad
and the defendant is not entitled to encash the bank guarantees. This argument
of the counsel for the plaintiff is totally knocked off in view of the notice
of demand dated 27th February 1992 in relation to the performance guarantees.
However, in relation to the bank guarantees for the mobilization advance, the
argument of the plaintiff proceeds on a different footing. In relation to the
mobilisation advance bank guarantees, counsel for the plaintiff further argued
that the mobilisation advance already stands realised by the defendant and,
therefore, the defendant is not entitled to invoke the bank guarantees in view
of the plain language of the bank guarantees in question. The notice of demand
is attacked on this ground.
(11) Counsel for the parties have drawn my attention to various judgment of
this court as well as those of the Supreme Court to highlight the legal
principles in relation to encashment of bank guarantees. From these judgments
it appears that the law on the subject has been completely thrashed out and it
only now remains a question of application of the law to the. facts of a given
case. A learned single Judge of this Court has in Bhasin Associates Ltd. vs.
Hyundai Heavy Industry Co. Ltd.. 1991 Vol.III, Delhi Lawyer 43, called out the
principles which are well established in view of these various judgments.
(This judgment has been approved by a Division Bench of this Court as an
appeal against it being Fao (os) 75/91 was dismissed on 15.11.91.) These
principles are:- 1.A confirmed letter of credit and the bank guarantee stand
on the same footing. The obligations assumed by the bank in a bank guarantee
are irrevocable. Bank must honour its commitments according to the terms of
the bank guarantee. A bank guarantee constitutes a bargain between the banker
and the creditor (seller in the case of letter of credit) which imposes on the
banker an absolute obligation to pay. 2. An irrevocable letter of credit has a
definite implication. It is independent and unqualified by the contract of
sale or other underlying transactions. These observations a fortiori apply to
a bank guarantee because on the bank guarantees revolve many of the internal
trade and transactions in a country. Otherwise the very purpose of bank
guarantees would be negatived and the fabric of trading operation will get
jeopardised. 3. The contractual duty owned by an issuing or confirming bank to
the buyer to honour the credit notified by him on presentation of apparently
conforming documents by the seller is matched by a corresponding contractual
liability on the part of the bank to the seller to pay him the amount of the
credit on presentation of the documents. The principle is same in the case of
bank guarantee. 4. Bank is not concerned in the least with the relations
between the supplier and the customer, nor with the question whether the
supplier has performed his contractual obligations or not, nor with the
question whether supplier is in default or not. The bank .must pay according
to its guarantee, on demand, if so stipulated, without proof or conditions.
The only exceptions being (1) when there is a clear fraud by one of the
parties of which the bank has notice or the bank guarantee has been obtained
by misrepresentation or concealment of material facts, and (2) injunction can
be granted to prevent irretrievable injustice but only in very special and
exceptional cases and. of course, depending upon the facts of that case. 5.
Also a bank guarantee providing for payment on demand without proof or
conditions is in the nature of a promissory note payable on demand and where
the plaintiff has not established fraud on the part of the defendant, the bank
is required to honour the bank guarantee on demand made by the defendant. 6.
It is not material if the injunction sought is against the bank or the party
invoking the bank guarantee as the net effect would be restraining the bank
from performing the bank guarantee. That cannot be done. One cannot be
indirectly what one likes not free to do directly. Frame of the suit by not
impleading the bank cannot make any difference in the position of law. 7. If
the bank guarantee is invoked and on that account the person giving the bank
guarantee is ruined he is not without remedy. He is not to suffer any
injustice which is irretrievable. Hew can sue the party invoking wrongly the
bank guarantee for damages. 8. When it is said that in the presence of
"special equities" arising from a particular situation which might entitle the
party on whose behalf bank guarantee is given to an injunction restraining the
bank in performance of bank guarantee, the words "special equities" only mean
a situation where the injunction is sought to prevent injustice which is
irretrievable. 9. The view that in a given case the matter will still be
referred to arbitration and in those circumstances if bank guarantee was
permitted to be encashed, it would be improper, cannot be sustained in view of
the well settled principles on which the bank guarantees are operated. 10. It
is not the rule that there should be a prima facie case. In order to restrain
the operation either of irrevocable letter of credit or of bank guarantee,
there should be serious dispute and there should be a good prima facie case of
fraud and special equities to prevent irretrievable injustice between the
parties. The courts usually refrain from granting injunction to restrain the
performance of the contractual obligations arising out of a letter of credit
or a bank guarantee.
(11) All the important judgments of this Court, other High Courts and of the
Supreme Court have been noted and discussed in he judgment in Bhasin
Associates Ltd. (supra). Therefore I do not propose to discuss or repeat here
the various observations contained in these judgments. After the decision in
Bhasin Associates, the Supreme Court has delivered another judgment reported
as General Electric Technical Services Co. Inc. Vs. Punj Sons Pvt. Ltd., . In
the said judgment the law laid down by the Supreme Court in its earlier
judgment in U.P. Co-op. Federation Ltd. vs. Singh Consultants & Engineers Pvt.
Ltd. has been reiterated.
(12) The law is settled that terms of a bank guarantee enjoy a position of
primacy in deciding any question relating to encashment of the bank guarantee.
The language of the bank guarantee is the sole guiding factor and the manner
and validity of invocation of a bank guarantee will have to be only with
reference to the language of the bank guarantee. The observation of the Courts
in various judgments that the bank guarantee is an independent contract and is
enforceable without reference to the under-lying contract as well as to the
person at whose instance the bank guarantee is given, is also largely based on
the language of the bank guarantees which are normally furnished. It is no
doubt true that a bank guarantee is an independent contract and its encashment
depends on the language of the bank guarantee, therefore, the person at whose
instance the bank guarantee is furnished may be relegated to the position of
non-entity.
(13) In most of the cases decided by the various courts no reference is made
to Section 126 of the Indian Contract Act. Under the Indian Law this statutory
provision applies to all guarantees. It follows that there have to be three
parties to a guarantee. The person in respect of whose default the guarantee
is given is called the 'principal debtor'. The person to whom the guarantee is
given is called the 'creditor' while the person who give the guarantee is
called the 'surety'. This aspect of the law was dealt with in great detail in
M/s Nangia Construction (Industry) Pvt. Ltd. vs. National Building
Construction Corporation Ltd. & Ors., 1990(2) Delhi Lawyer 403. I am informed
that a Special Leave Petition against the said judgment of the Single Judge of
this Court was dismissed by the Supreme Court. Since the guarantees under the
Indian Law are covered by Section 126 of the Contract Act, it is difficult to
obliterate the principal debtor or the person at whose instance the bank
guarantee is furnished from the scene altogether. However, in practice the
language of the bank guarantees which are generally issued by the banks or
accepted by the beneficiaries/creditors makes the position of she principal
debtor almost illusory.
(14) Interests of trade and commerce and the credibility which has to be
provided to instruments like the bank guarantee for the role they play in the
modern trade and commerce require that the bank guarantees be treated almost
at par with letters of credit as if there are only two parties to it and in
that sense and for such reasons the Courts have held that the bank guarantee
is bilateral contract. A letter of credit and a bank guarantee are documents
which are in great use in the present day trade and commerce and that is why
it has been repeatedly emphasised that their enforceability should not be
interdicted or interfered with by the Courts except in exceptional
circumstances like fraud, special equalities or invalidity of notice of
demand. The bank guarantees have been held to be bilateral contracts on the
basis of the language of the bank guarantees in use these days. The bank
guarantees generally provide that the bank will pay without reference to the
principal debtor and often go the extent of saying, as in the present case.
that so far as the creditor/beneficiary is concerned, it can look to the bank
as if the bank is the principal debtor. Such bank guarantees make the party at
whose instance the guarantee is furnished a non-entity. The bank guarantee
agreement is rendered a bilateral contract. Therefore I don't find any
conflict in the proposition of law based on Section 126 of the Contract Act as
brought out in M/s Nangia Construction (supra) and the other judgments holding
that a bank guarantee is a bilateral contract.
(15) Before coming to the facts of the present case I consider it appropriate
to deal with two legal submissions made by counsel for the defendant in this
context. They are - (1) the objection to the validity of the notice of demand
is not open to the party at whose instance the bank guarantee has been
furnished; and (2) no relief can be granted to the plaintiff on its
application under Section 41 read with Schedule Ii of the Arbitration Act in
proceedings under Section 20 of the Arbitration Act in relation to the
contract of bank guarantee because this contract is an independent contract
and the arbitration clause is only contained in the underlying contract, i.e.
the construction agreement.
(15) Regarding the first point counsel for the defendant submits that a
contract of bank guarantee is an independent contract and it has only two
parties to it, i.e. the bank and the beneficiary. Therefore, the objection
regarding validity of notice if at all can be taken by the bank and not by the
party at whose instance the bank guarantee has been furnished. In support of
this submission the counsel has relied on the Supreme Court decision in
General Electric Technical Services Co. Inc. (supra). I do not find any
observation in the said judgment which goes to the extent the argument is
being advanced by counsel for the defendant. The Supreme Court had occasion to
deal with the notice of demand and in the light of the language of the bank
guarantee involved in the said case it was observed that certain facts were
not necessarily required to be mentioned in the notice of demand and.
therefore, the notice of demand was held to be valid. The judgment does not
say or held that the objection regarding notice of the demand cannot be raised
by the party at whose instance the bank guarantee has been furnished. Counsel
for the defendant has also referred to D.T.H. Construction Pvt.Ltd. vs. Steel
Authority of India Ltd., Air 1986 Cal. 81, which goes to the extent of holding
that even if the notice of demand is bad that will not help the bank
ultimately and it will not be an excuse for the bank for non-payment of the
amount due under the guarantees. It is observed in the said judgment that if
the bank has understood the purport of the notice then the bank cannot be
heard to say that there has been no statement in the notice that the
beneficiary has suffered loss and or damages on account of the defaults
committed by the person on whose behalf the guarantee was given.
(16) In this connection certain observations contained in the Supreme Court
decision in U.P. Co-op. Federation Ltd. (supra) are worth noting. Para 53 of
the judgment is reproduced as under:- 53.Whether it is a traditional letter of
credit or a new device like performance bond or performance guarantee, the
obligation of banks appears to be the same. If the documentary credits are
irrevocable and independent, the banks must pay when demand is made. Since the
bank pledges its own credit involving its reputation, it has no defense except
in the case of fraud. The bank's obligations of course should-not be extended
to protect the unscrupulous seller, that is. the seller who is responsible for
the fraud. But, the banker must be sure of his ground before declining to pay.
The nature of the fraud that the courts talk about is fraud of an "egregious
nature as to vitiate the entire underlying transaction". It is fraud of the
beneficiary, not the fraud of somebody else. If the bank detects with a
minimal investigation the fraudulent action fo the seller, the payment could
be refused. The bank cannot be compelled to honour the credit in such cases.
But it may be very difficult for the bank to take a decision on the alleged
fraudulent action. In such cases, it would be proper for the bank to ask the
buyer to approach the court for an injunction."
(17) These observations of the Supreme Court clearly show that the buyers,
i.e. the party at whose instance the bank guarantee is furnished is entitled
to approach the court and seek an injunction against encashment of the bank
guarantee. These observations considered in the background of the legal
position noticed hereinbefore that under the-Indian Law a contract of .bank
guarantee has three parties which includes the party at whose instance the
bank guarantee is furnished, make it clear that the plaintiff in the present
suit cannot be non-suited on the ground of having no locus standi to seek
redressal of his present grievances.
(18) The settled law that the bank guarantee has to be dealt with strictly
according to its language and the terms contained therein strengthens this
view. The party at whose instance the bank guarantee is furnished cannot be
denied even this much right that it may point out to the court that the notice
of demand is not in accordance with the language and terms of the bank
guarantee. In a given case the bank may collude with the beneficiary in
allowing the bank guarantee to be encashed. In another case a bank may
overlook the defect in she notice of demand, Unless this right is allowed to
the party at whose instance the bank guarantee is being furnished it may lead
to injustice. Ultimately it is that party which has to bear the consequences
of encashment of the bank guarantee. Therefore, I am not inclined to take a
view that the doors should be completely closed to a party at whose instance
the bank guarantee is furnished to approach the court. The Supreme Court has
recognised this fact as noticed in the above quotation from its decision in
the case of U.P. Co-op. Fed. Ltd. (supra). I may note here that this view is
confined to the legal question raised regarding locus standi of the party at
whose instance the bank guarantee is furnished to challenge the notice of
demand. This view in no way be understood to undermine the importance attached
to a bank guarantee in the present day trade and commerce and to the legal
position which does not admit of interference in encashment of bank guarantees
by courts except in exceptional circumstances.
(19) This brings me to the second legal question raised by counsel for the
defendant. Counsel for the defendant has urged in support of his argument that
it is settled law that a bank guarantee is an independent contract and it has
to be considered and enforced without reference to the underlying contract,
i.e. the contract in pursuance of which the bank guarantee was furnished. He
has drawn my attention to Section 41 of the Arbitration Act read with Schedule
Ii of the said Act to submit that under these provisions relief can be granted
to a party only in relation to "the contract which contains the arbitration
clause and not. in relation to an independent contract. In support of this
argument counsel has relied on H.M. Kamaluddin Ansari & Co. vs. Union of India
& Ors., . In this case a petition under section 33 of the Arbitration. Act had
been filed challenging the validity of the arbitration clause Along with an
application under section 41 of the Arbitration Act for injunction restraining
the purchaser from withholding the payment under another contract. It was held
that injunction prayed for could not be granted because the amount due under
the other contract to the contractor/applicant was not the subject matter of
the proceedings under section 33 of Arbitration Act.
(20) The analogy of the Supreme Court judgment cannot be strictly applied in
the present case. It may be true that for purposes of encashment of bank
guarantee one may not have to make any reference to the construction agreement
and the enforcement of the bank guarantee has to be seen on the language of
the bank guarantee. However, the parent contract cannot be totally overlooked
because the bank guarantee has been furnished only in accordance with the
requirement of the said contract. Secondly, the disputes which may ultimately
be referred to arbitration in the petition under section 20 are likely to
include the dispute regarding bank guarantee. In fact in one of the present
cases it has been shown that in the reply filed by the defendant, the
defendant has himself sought to refer the dispute regarding bank guarantees to
arbitration. When this is so it may not be proper to drive a party to
multiplicity of proceedings by making it file one petition for reference of
disputes to arbitration under section 20 of the Arbitration Act and another
independent suit for injunction regarding encashment of bank guarantee. For
this reason as also for the reason that though the bank guarantee is an
independent contract yet since it has been furnished in pursuance of another
contract which contains an arbitration clause, I am not inclined to hold that
the plaintiff cannot seek a remedy in the arbitration proceedings. The right
of the party at whose instance the bank guarantee is furnished to file a suit
in relation to the bank guarantee has been recognised. I do not find it fair
and reasonable to drive such a party to separate proceedings. I may note here
that in various cases decided by this court no party has been non-suited on-
this ground and the petitions for interim relief under section 41 of the
Arbitration Act read with Schedule Ii have been entertained. In view of this
discussion the second contention on behalf of the defendant fails.
(21) In the background of this legal position I have to consider the facts of
these cases and whether any injunction can be granted in favor of the
plaintiff and if so to what extent. There are two sets of bank guarantees in
these cases. One set consists of performance guarantees while the other set
consists of bank guarantees to cover mobilisation advances. Though several
bank guarantees are involved, the language of the bank guarantees in each set
is identical. Therefore, each set can be considered by taking one of the bank
guarantees in the set concerned as the basis of discussion.
(22) Mobilisation Advance Guarantees The entire bank guarantee has already
been reproduced in an earlier part of this judgment. Para 3 thereof is crucial
for the present purpose. What is sought to be secured is due payment of the
sum advanced to the contractor in terms of the contract conditions. Further
the bank has undertaken that "if default is made by the said V.K. Construction
Works Ltd., New Delhi i.e., the contractor does not refund the said advance in
the terms and conditions of the contract. We shall on demand pay to you
without any protest, delay or demur and without any reference p73 of any kind
whatsoever to the contractor in such manner as you may direct the said amount
of Rs._____ or such part thereof not exceeding the said sum as you may require
or is payable to you by the contractor for all or any such default you can
look to us as the principal debtor without any reference whatsoever to the
contractor."
(23) The aforesaid language of the bank guarantee clearly shows that it was
intended to secure the defendant against default of the plaintiff in refund of
the amount of the advance. Use of the words - "due payment of the said sum by
the contractor", "default is made", "i.e. the contract does not refund the
said advance", "we shall on demand pay to you -the said amount of Rs.___ or
such portion thereof- as you may require or is payable to you by the
contractor for all or any such default-", clearly shows that the bank
guarantee is conditional and is intended to operate in the event of default in
repayment and to the extent of such default. That is it can be
enforced/enchased to the extent the advance remains unrefunded. Words "or such
portion thereof" are suggestive of this. A conditional guarantee need not be
encashed till the condition is fulfillled.
(24) In the face of this language of the bank guarantee it is not possible to
urge that the moment any default is committed by the contractor in repayment
of any portion of the advance, she bank guarantee can be encashed for its full
amount, irrespective of the extent to which refund has been made. The purpose
of the bank guarantee is to ensure that the mobilisation advance is fully
refunded to the beneficiary.
(25) It is this feature/language of the bank guarantee in the present cases
which distinguishes these cases from the decision of the Supreme Court in
General Electric Technical Services Co Inc. (supra). In Getsco the bank
guarantee was a composite guarantce. initially it was to cover the
mobilisation advance. Later it was extended to cover performance of the
contract. The bank guarantee dated 28th October. 1986 which was submitted
regarding the mobilisation advance does not talk of refund of the mobilisation
advance or the extent of refund. It talks of loss or damage caused or suffered
or to be caused or suffered by the owner by reason of beach by the contractor
of the terms and conditions of the agreement. On this language of the bank
guarantee the Supreme Court held that the recovery of She mobilisation advance
or the extent to which it was recovered were irrelevant factors in relation to
encashment of the bank guarantee and the bank was bound to pay irrespective of
any recoveries of the mobilisation advance having been effected. In the bank
guarantees involved in she present cases, the recovery of the mobilisation
advance and the extent to which it has been recovered are very relevant and
material factors. This is in fact a condition of the bank guarantee and can
not be ignored. Therefore, the notices of demand dated 19.11.1991, 5.12.1991
or 27.2.1992 which at best go to the extent of saying that the contractor "has
defaulted regarding refund of advance", fail to comply with the requirement of
the bank guarantee. The notice must indicate the extent of default in refund
of the advance and the bank guarantee is encashable to the extent of such
default.
(26) Counsel for defendant submits that merely saying "default" in the notice
of demand is enough. This will be doing violence to the language and purport
of the bank guarantee. I feel fortified in this view by comparing the bank
guarantee regarding the mobilisation advance with the bank guarantee regarding
performance of the contract. While in the performance guarantee the
beneficiary has been made the sole judge of the default in performance of the
contract and he need not spell out the default or the extent of default, in
the mobilisation advance guarantee it is not so. In the latter the encashment
has been linked to the extent of refund. If the intention was otherwise i.e.
irrespective of the extent of refund of advance, the entire amount under the
bank guarantee was repayable, it could have been so provided and at least the
bank guarantee would not have been in the terms in which it exists. This
language of the bank guarantee involved is quite understandable and is also
reasonable. For the intention is not to make profit or seek enrichment at the
cost of another which will be so if even when some refund has been made, the
entire amount could be recovered under the bank guarantee. The purpose of the
bank guarantee in the present case is to secure the beneficiary against any
default in refund of the advance. Therefore, its encashment has understandably
been permitted to the extent of default in refund of the advance. Thus, the
beneficiary cannot merely say default has been committed.
(27) He has to say what default and to what extent and to that extent
encashment of the bank guarantee is permissible. It has been held by the
Supreme Court in United Commercial Bank Versus Bank of India etc., that a bank
is not liable to honour unless there is exact compliance with the terms of the
credit. Such documents must be scrutinised with meticulo Fus care. Therefore.
a bank guarantee can only be encashed as per its terms. The bank guarantee in
question does not admit of encashment on the basis of a mere averment of
default. The extent of default has to be averred and to that extent it is
encashable - nothing more, nothing less. The Court will intervene to prevent
any action on the part of the beneficiary which may be contrary to the terms
of the bank guarantee. Strict adherence to the tms of the bank guarantee has
to be ensured. The notices of demand for encashment of the bank guarantees
relating to the mobilisation advances not being in accordance with terms of
the bank guarantees in the present cases, these bank guarantees cannot be
permitted to be encashed. The interim applications in all these cases are
allowed to this extent and the defendant is restrained from encashing the bank
guarantees regarding mobilisation advance in pursuance of the said notices.
(28) Counsel for defendant has further argued that the bank has vide its
letter dated 9.3.1992 showed its willingness to encash the bank guarantees.
Therefore, there is no unpediment to encashment of the bank guarantees and the
Court should not interfere. Having held that the party at whose instance the
bank guarantee is given has a right to approach the Court to stop its
encashment, it follows that this argument does not survive. Even otherwise the
bank has only showed its willingness to pay as per orders of the Court. I have
held that the mobilisation advance bank guarantees are not liable to be
encashed in the facts of the case. The bank will abide by this direction.
(29) In view of this decision, I need not go into the controversy between the
parties regarding the extent to which the mobilisation advance already stands
realised/adjusted by the defendant. According to the plaintiff the entire
mobilisation advance already stands realised in all the cases' However, the
defendant has denied this. The pleadings of the defendant in reply are vague,
evasive and argumentative. The defendant has held back full information which
is within its exclusive knowledge. On the other hand counsel for plaintiff has
made a statement at the bar that the plaintiff has no objection to encashment
of the mobilisation advance guarantees to the extent the mobilisation advance
remains unrefunded in each case. By this statement the plaintiff has tried to
assert and make good its plea that the mobilisation advance stands fully
refunded. It is worth mentioning here that it is not the case of the defendant
that no recovery at all has been made of the mobilisation advances. This means
some recoveries have been made. During the course of hearing of these
applications the parties have tried to make good their respective stand in
thisbehalf. However, as already said, I need not go into this question for the
present.
(30) Performance Guarantee:- One of the performance guarantees has already
been reproduced hereinbefore. The relevant clauses under the said guarantee
are clauses 1 and 3. A reference to clause 1 shows that it is an irrevocable
guarantee given for the due payment of the sum involved by the contractor to
the beneficiary for the due performance of the obligations of the contractor
as per the contract conditions. It further says that if default is made by the
contractor in performing any of the terms or conditions of the contract or in
payment of any money payable to the beneficiary under the contract of which
the beneficiary shall be the sole judge, the beneficiary will communicate its
decision to the bank which will be final and conclusive and binding on the
bank. The bank has also undertaken that it will not be open to the bank to ask
any reasons/details in this regard from the beneficiary and it will not
question the same or make reference to the contractor in any manner
whatsoever. The bank has promised to pay on demand without any protest, delay
or demur and without any reference of any kind whatsoever to the contractor
and in such manner as the beneficiary may direct, the amount of the bank
guarantee or such portion thereof not exceeding that amount as the beneficiary
may require or is payable to it by the contractor. The bank has placed itself
in the position of a principal debtor and has undertaken to pay without any
reference to the contractor. These words of the bank guarantee clearly show
that the beneficiary has been made the sole judge regarding any defaults of
the contractor or regarding any money payable on account of defaults or breach
of contract by the contractor. The beneficiary has only to communicate its
decision in this behalf to the bank and the bank has undertaken to pay as a
principal debtor without protest, delay or demur and without reference to the
contractor. Therefore, by a mere statement in the communication by the
beneficiary to the bank that default has been committed by the contractor in
performance of the conditions of the contract, the beneficiary can call upon
the bank to pay whatever amount it may decide as payable by the bank subject
to the maximum amount of the bank guarantee. A reference to the notices of
demand particularly to the one issued on 27th February 1992 shows that the
same meets the requirements of the bank guarantee and the bank cannot be
interdicted in performance of the obligation undertaken by the bank under the
bank guarantee.
(31) In clause 3 of the bank guarantee it is provided that the right to
recover conferred on the beneficiary under this guarantee will not be affected
or suspended by reason of any dispute or disputes raised by the contractor
which may be pending before any officer, tribunal, court, arbitrators/umpire.
Thus the bank guarantee is very wide in its language, and sweep and it does
not admit of any ground for interdicting its encashment except of course fraud
or special equities. I may note here that there is no plea of fraud in
relation to the performance guarantees in the present case.
(32) The only grounds on which encashment of performance guarantees was sought
to be stayed by the plaintiff are that the notice of demand is not in
accordance with the terms of the bank guarantees and that there are special
equities in favor of the plaintiff which call for an order of injunction
against encashment of the bank guarantees. So far as the question of validity
of the notice of demand is concerned the case was argued before me on the
basis of the notices of demand issued by the defendant vide letters dated 19th
November 1991, 5th December 1991. These notices provided ample scope for the
arguments that were advanced by counsel for the plaintiff attacking the same.
However, the subsequent notices issued by the defendant to the bank on 27th
February 1992 knock out the entire arguments. In the subsequent notices the
defendant has clearly communicated to the bank that the contractor has
defaulted in the performance of its obligations under the contract agreement
and, therefore, the defendant has called upon the bank to pay the entire
amount under the bank guarantees. This the beneficiary could do as per the
terms of the bank guarantee. Therefore, I do not find any ground to hold that
the notice of demand is invalid.
(33) Coming to the question of of special equities, counsel for the plaintiff
has urged that in some of the cases almost the entire contract has been
performed and the only reason for which the entire work could not be completed
for instance in one of the cases is that the defendant insists on providing
doors manufactured by a particular company. The said company is lying closed
and, therefore, doors of that particular brand are not available. In another
instance he submits that the defendant is insisting on use of tiles
manufactured by only a particular company and those tiles are not at all
available in the market. On the basis of these instances it is argued that
defendant has prevented the plaintiff from completing its obligations under
the contract and on account of this unreasonable attitude of the defendant the
plaintiff should not be made to suffer. I do not consider that such instances
as urged by the plaintiff fall within the category of special equities carved
out as an exception to the rule in favor of encashment of bank guarantees.
Secondly, the language of the bank guarantee in question makes the defendant
as the sole judge of breach of contract and the amount to be claimed for this.
Therefore, there is no scope for any one else to consider any mitigating
circumstances. The contract provision supercedes everything. The contention of
the counsel for the plaintiff that there are special equities requiring an
injunction to the bank or the defendant restraining encashment of the bank
guarantees cannot be sustained.
(34) It follows from the above discussion that so far as the performance
guarantees are concerned, the plaintiff is not entitled to any relief and to
this extent the prayer of the plaintiff in the interim applications stands
rejected.
(35) However, the defendant is restrained from encashing the bank guarantees
furnished to it by the plaintiff to cover the mobilisation advances on the
basis of the notices of demand dated 19th November 1991/5th December 1991/27th
February 1992.
(36) All the interim applications listed above stand disposed of. In the
circumstances of the case there will be no order as to costs.
plaintiff should not be made to suffer. I do not consider that such instances
as urged by the plaintiff fall within the category of special equities carved
out as an exception to the rule in favor of encashment of bank guarantees.
Secondly, the language of the bank guarantee in question makes the defendant
as the sole judge of breach of contract and the amount to be claimed for this.
Therefore, there is no scope for any one else to consider any mitigating
circumstances. The contract provision supercedes everything. The contention of
the counsel for the plaintiff that there are special equities requiring an
injunction to the bank or the defendant restraining encashment of the bank
guarantees cannot be sustained.
(34) It follows from the above discussion that so far as the performance
guarantees are concerned, the plaintiff is not entitled to any relief and to
this extent the prayer of the plaintiff in the interim applications stands
rejected.
(35) However, the defendant is restrained from encashing the bank guarantees
furnished to it by the plaintiff to cover the mobilisation advances on the
Park, New Delhi has furnished all the bank guarantees. The letters of
invocation of bank guarantees are similar in language and content in all the
cases, except for the variation in the amounts. The language of the bank
guarantees to cover the mobilization advance is identical in all the cases
except variation in the amounts. Similarly the language of the performance
guarantees is similar in all the cases except the variation in the amounts,
therefore, all these cases raise py?3 common questions of fact and law and the
injunction applications are being disposed of by this common order.
(2) Out of the six suits, four suits being Suit No.3866/91, 3867/91, 3868/91
and 3870/91 are petitions under Section 20 of the Arbitration Act in which
applications have been filed under Section 41 read with Schedule Ii of the
Arbitration Act for interim orders. The other two suits being Suit No-3663/91
and 3664/91 are suits for permanent injunction in which injunction
applications have been Filed under Order 39, Rules 1 and 2 of the Code of
Civil Procedure. The two other injunction suits were filed in this court on
27th November 1991 while the four suits under the Arbitration Act were filed
on 9th December 1991.
(3) The defendant is an organization for the welfare of Army Officers. It has
undertaken the work of construction of dwelling units for its members. The
plaintiff is a contractor and it undertook the work of construction of various
plaintiff should not be made to suffer. I do not consider that such instances
as urged by the plaintiff fall within the category of special equities carved
out as an exception to the rule in favor of encashment of bank guarantees.
Secondly, the language of the bank guarantee in question makes the defendant
as the sole judge of breach of contract and the amount to be claimed for this.
Therefore, there is no scope for any one else to consider any mitigating
circumstances. The contract provision supercedes everything. The contention of
the counsel for the plaintiff that there are special equities requiring an
injunction to the bank or the defendant restraining encashment of the bank
guarantees cannot be sustained.
(34) It follows from the above discussion that so far as the performance
guarantees are concerned, the plaintiff is not entitled to any relief and to
this extent the prayer of the plaintiff in the interim applications stands
rejected.
(35) However, the defendant is restrained from encashing the bank guarantees
furnished to it by the plaintiff to cover the mobilisation advances on the
Park, New Delhi has furnished all the bank guarantees. The letters of
invocation of bank guarantees are similar in language and content in all the
cases, except for the variation in the amounts. The language of the bank
guarantees to cover the mobilization advance is identical in all the cases
except variation in the amounts. Similarly the language of the performance
guarantees is similar in all the cases except the variation in the amounts,
therefore, all these cases raise py?3 common questions of fact and law and the
injunction applications are being disposed of by this common order.
(2) Out of the six suits, four suits being Suit No.3866/91, 3867/91, 3868/91
and 3870/91 are petitions under Section 20 of the Arbitration Act in which
applications have been filed under Section 41 read with Schedule Ii of the
Arbitration Act for interim orders. The other two suits being Suit No-3663/91
and 3664/91 are suits for permanent injunction in which injunction
applications have been Filed under Order 39, Rules 1 and 2 of the Code of
Civil Procedure. The two other injunction suits were filed in this court on
27th November 1991 while the four suits under the Arbitration Act were filed
on 9th December 1991.
(3) The defendant is an organization for the welfare of Army Officers. It has
undertaken the work of construction of dwelling units for its members. The
plaintiff is a contractor and it undertook the work of construction of various
plaintiff should not be made to suffer. I do not consider that such instances
as urged by the plaintiff fall within the category of special equities carved
out as an exception to the rule in favor of encashment of bank guarantees.
Secondly, the language of the bank guarantee in question makes the defendant
as the sole judge of breach of contract and the amount to be claimed for this.
Therefore, there is no scope for any one else to consider any mitigating
circumstances. The contract provision supercedes everything. The contention of
the counsel for the plaintiff that there are special equities requiring an
injunction to the bank or the defendant restraining encashment of the bank
guarantees cannot be sustained.
(34) It follows from the above discussion that so far as the performance
guarantees are concerned, the plaintiff is not entitled to any relief and to
this extent the prayer of the plaintiff in the interim applications stands
rejected.
(35) However, the defendant is restrained from encashing the bank guarantees
furnished to it by the plaintiff to cover the mobilisation advances on the
Park, New Delhi has furnished all the bank guarantees. The letters of
invocation of bank guarantees are similar in language and content in all the
cases, except for the variation in the amounts. The language of the bank
guarantees to cover the mobilization advance is identical in all the cases
except variation in the amounts. Similarly the language of the performance
guarantees is similar in all the cases except the variation in the amounts,
therefore, all these cases raise py?3 common questions of fact and law and the
injunction applications are being disposed of by this common order.
(2) Out of the six suits, four suits being Suit No.3866/91, 3867/91, 3868/91
and 3870/91 are petitions under Section 20 of the Arbitration Act in which
applications have been filed under Section 41 read with Schedule Ii of the
Arbitration Act for interim orders. The other two suits being Suit No-3663/91
and 3664/91 are suits for permanent injunction in which injunction
applications have been Filed under Order 39, Rules 1 and 2 of the Code of
Civil Procedure. The two other injunction suits were filed in this court on
27th November 1991 while the four suits under the Arbitration Act were filed
on 9th December 1991.
(3) The defendant is an organization for the welfare of Army Officers. It has
undertaken the work of construction of dwelling units for its members. The
plaintiff is a contractor and it undertook the work of construction of various
dwelling units on behalf of the defendant at its various sites. Separate,
though similar, agreements were entered into between the parties, with respect
to each site. Thus there are in all six agreements regarding which six suits
have been filed in this court Each contract contains an arbitration clause.
The contracts also contain p73 clauses under which bank guarantees are to be
furnished by the contractor in favor of the employer. The contractor who is
the plaintiff in these proceedings furnished various bank guarantees in
pursuance of the contract provisions. The defendant/employer issued separate
demand notices to the bank in relation to each bank guarantee invoking bank
guarantees and calling upon the bank to pay the amounts under the bank
guarantees. These notices were issued on 19th November 1991 and 5th December
plaintiff should not be made to suffer. I do not consider that such instances
as urged by the plaintiff fall within the category of special equities carved
out as an exception to the rule in favor of encashment of bank guarantees.
Secondly, the language of the bank guarantee in question makes the defendant
as the sole judge of breach of contract and the amount to be claimed for this.
Therefore, there is no scope for any one else to consider any mitigating
circumstances. The contract provision supercedes everything. The contention of
the counsel for the plaintiff that there are special equities requiring an
injunction to the bank or the defendant restraining encashment of the bank
guarantees cannot be sustained.
(34) It follows from the above discussion that so far as the performance
guarantees are concerned, the plaintiff is not entitled to any relief and to
this extent the prayer of the plaintiff in the interim applications stands
rejected.
(35) However, the defendant is restrained from encashing the bank guarantees
furnished to it by the plaintiff to cover the mobilisation advances on the
Park, New Delhi has furnished all the bank guarantees. The letters of
invocation of bank guarantees are similar in language and content in all the
cases, except for the variation in the amounts. The language of the bank
guarantees to cover the mobilization advance is identical in all the cases
except variation in the amounts. Similarly the language of the performance
guarantees is similar in all the cases except the variation in the amounts,
therefore, all these cases raise py?3 common questions of fact and law and the
injunction applications are being disposed of by this common order.
(2) Out of the six suits, four suits being Suit No.3866/91, 3867/91, 3868/91
and 3870/91 are petitions under Section 20 of the Arbitration Act in which
applications have been filed under Section 41 read with Schedule Ii of the
Arbitration Act for interim orders. The other two suits being Suit No-3663/91
and 3664/91 are suits for permanent injunction in which injunction
applications have been Filed under Order 39, Rules 1 and 2 of the Code of
Civil Procedure. The two other injunction suits were filed in this court on
27th November 1991 while the four suits under the Arbitration Act were filed
on 9th December 1991.
(3) The defendant is an organization for the welfare of Army Officers. It has
undertaken the work of construction of dwelling units for its members. The
plaintiff is a contractor and it undertook the work of construction of various
dwelling units on behalf of the defendant at its various sites. Separate,
though similar, agreements were entered into between the parties, with respect
to each site. Thus there are in all six agreements regarding which six suits
have been filed in this court Each contract contains an arbitration clause.
The contracts also contain p73 clauses under which bank guarantees are to be
furnished by the contractor in favor of the employer. The contractor who is
the plaintiff in these proceedings furnished various bank guarantees in
pursuance of the contract provisions. The defendant/employer issued separate
demand notices to the bank in relation to each bank guarantee invoking bank
guarantees and calling upon the bank to pay the amounts under the bank
guarantees. These notices were issued on 19th November 1991 and 5th December
plaintiff should not be made to suffer. I do not consider that such instances
as urged by the plaintiff fall within the category of special equities carved
out as an exception to the rule in favor of encashment of bank guarantees.
Secondly, the language of the bank guarantee in question makes the defendant
as the sole judge of breach of contract and the amount to be claimed for this.
Therefore, there is no scope for any one else to consider any mitigating
circumstances. The contract provision supercedes everything. The contention of
the counsel for the plaintiff that there are special equities requiring an
injunction to the bank or the defendant restraining encashment of the bank
guarantees cannot be sustained.
(34) It follows from the above discussion that so far as the performance
guarantees are concerned, the plaintiff is not entitled to any relief and to
this extent the prayer of the plaintiff in the interim applications stands
rejected.
(35) However, the defendant is restrained from encashing the bank guarantees
furnished to it by the plaintiff to cover the mobilisation advances on the
