Telangana High Court
K.Chandra Sekhara Rao vs The District Collector And 21 ... on 20 November,
2018
Bench: N. Balayogi
                  HONOURABLE SRI JUSTICE N. BALAYOGI
                     Civil Revision Petition No.1679 of 2008
    ORDER:
The first Revision Petitioner-K. Chandra Sekhara Rao as the sole petitioner
filed the Civil Revision Petition and after his death, petitioners 2 to 4 are
substituted as Legal Representatives of the first petitioner.
2\. The petitioner-late K. Chandra Sekhara Rao, aggrieved by the orders
dated:16.9.1994 in file No.J/718/94 passed by the respondent No.3 and also
orders of the respondent No.2 in file No.F1/1188/2006, dated:9.5.2006,
preferred this Revision.
3\. The brief facts of the Revision are that, the revision petitioner and
three others namely, (1). Sri Ch. Anjaneya Varaprasad, (2) Smt. Leela and (3)
Sri K. Seshagiri Rao have jointly purchased property to an extent of Ac.84.35
Gts in Survey No.222 of Gajularamaram village, Qutbullapur Mandal, Ranga Reddy
District under the agreement of sale dated:07.9.1981 from the legal heirs of
Inamdars. As the vendors failed to perform their contract and executed regular
delay of more than 8 years, ignoring the fact that the copies of the document
were supplied after 19.7.2000 i.e., the date from which the limitation starts
to run. Accordingly, there is 356 days delay. The petitioners have properly
explained the delay. The appellate court did not consider the settled
principle of law that in view of Section 24 of the Act, Section 5 of the
Limitation Act does not  34 apply. The order suffers from legal infirmities
hence liable to be set aside.
70\. Accordingly, the delay in filing the appeal is condoned while setting
aside the impugned order dated 9.5.2006 in Case No.F1/1188/2006 passed by the
2nd respondent and the 2nd respondent - Joint Collector is directed to hear
the appeal filed by the petitioner and since it is the oldest matter, the 2nd
respondent is directed to dispose of the appeal on merits and in accordance
with law within 3 months from the date of receipt of a copy of the order. In
the meanwhile, both parties are directed to maintain status quo till the
disposal of the appeal.
71\. In the result the Civil Revision Petition is allowed, but however,
Inamdars. As the vendors failed to perform their contract and executed regular
sale deeds, the revision petitioner and others filed O.S.No.190/1987 for
specific performance of contract of sale and the same was decreed on
10.3.1992. Since then, they are in possession and enjoyment of the said
property of Ac.84.35Gts in Survey No.222 of Gajularamaram village, Qutbullapur
Mandal, Ranga Reddy District.  2 In pursuance of the said judgment and decree,
the entire sale consideration was paid to the vendors. In the meanwhile, the
respondents 5 to 20 herein approached respondent No.3 and applied for issuance
of Occupancy Rights Certificate (ORC) by creating false and fabricated
documents stating that they have already entered into agreement of sale with
Inamdars in the year 1973 itself.
4\. The respondent No.3-Revenue Divisional Officer (East) granted occupancy
rights in favour of respondents 5 to 20 by proceedings No.J/7/18/94,
dated:16.9.1994 illegally without following the procedure under the Act. After
came to know of the said order, immediately, the 1st petitioner approached the
respondent No.3 and requested to supply copies of the said orders, but
respondent No.3 refused to furnish the certified copies in spite of repeated
requests.
Thereafter, the petitioner, having no other go, filed Writ Petition No. 3521
of 1999 and the High Court vide orders dated:13.4.1999 directed respondent
No.3 to supply certified copies of the order and thereafter, the respondent
No.3 furnished certified copies through post after 19.7.2000. After receiving
the certified copies of the order, due to ill-health and old age, the revision
petitioner was bed ridden for more than seven months and not in a position to
move. Therefore, he filed an appeal questioning the proceedings with a delay
of 356 days. The said delay is neither wilful nor wanton, but it is only due
to ill-health. The Joint Collector, Ranga Reddy District passed final orders
on 29.6.2004 allowing the appeal by setting aside the  3 orders of the
respondent No.3 and remanded back the matter for fresh consideration.
5\. The respondent no.3 granted Occupancy Rights Certificate to respondents 5
to 20 basing on the alleged deed of assignment dated:6.5.1993 which is fake
and fabricated. As per section 17 of Registration Act, a deed of assignment in
respect of immovable property is compulsorily registerable and unless it is
registered, they cannot claim any right or interest in the immovable property.
6\. Aggrieved by the order of the appellate authority dated:29.6.2004, the
respondents 21 and 22 filed C.R.P.No.4601/2005 and the same was allowed on
27.1.2006 remitting back the matter to the respondent No.2-Joint Collector to
pass comprehensive order dealing with the merits of the appeal filed by the
petitioner and also to record a finding on the application of condonation of
delay.
7\. The respondent No.2 dismissed the appeal filed by the petitioner solely on
the ground that the petitioner has not explained the delay satisfactorily in
filing the appeal. Even though the High Court directed the respondent No.2 to
pass orders on merits, he has not passed orders on merits. Along with appeal,
the petitioner filed an affidavit showing the reasons for condonation of
delay, but the pleadings, contentions and grounds taken by the petitioner have
not been considered by the respondent No.2. The finding of the respondent No.2
on condonation petition that the absence of knowledge is not sufficient cause
for condonation of delay is contrary to settled  4 principles of law. The
absence of knowledge is a good ground for condonation of delay. Unless there
is knowledge, nobody can be expected to file an appeal questioning
proceedings. The date of knowledge is criteria for condonation of delay.
Admittedly, the petitioner is not impleaded as party to the proceedings
initiated before respondent No.3 and no notice was served to him, from which
it is clear that he had no knowledge about the said proceedings. The orders
were passed even without issuing notice and without giving proper opportunity
of personal hearing and they have even refused to furnish the certified copies
of the impugned orders for the reasons best known to them.
8\. Now, the point that arises for determination is:
"Whether the impugned order passed by respondent No.2 suffers from legal
infirmity warranting interference?"
9\. The grounds of the revision, as well as written arguments, reply
arguments, besides oral submissions of the petitioner show that the respondent
No.3 in collusion with the claimants, who are respondents 5 to 20 and who
played fraud, passed the impugned order without even issuing notice and
affording an opportunity of personal hearing to the petitioner strictly in
accordance with Rule 6 of A.P. (TA) Abolition of Inams Rules, 1975. The
document on which the respondent relied is an unregistered document of the
year 1973, which is concocted and fabricated one and that the respondents are
not in occupation and they are not protected tenants over the said land.  5
Therefore, the proceedings are illegal, null and void. The petitioner has
shown sufficient cause for delay stating that he has no knowledge of the
proceedings till he received copies of the document in the year 2000\.
Further, the respondents in whose favour the Occupancy Rights Certificate was
granted, have not filed Agreement of Sale and also GPA said to have been
executed in their favour and with a mala fide intention, they suppressed the
true facts and they have played fraud, particularly the original owners before
the Revenue Divisional Officer clearly stated that they have executed
agreement of sale in favour of petitioner and three others. The Revenue
Divisional Officer- respondent No.3, without considering the aforesaid facts,
issued Occupancy Rights Certificate in collusion with them, which is null and
void. The legal heirs of the deceased are already on record, therefore, there
is no necessity to bring them on record. There cannot be any question of
abatement and there is no need to again bring them on record. Already the
petitioner was exempted from bringing the LRs on an application filed under
Order 22, Rule 4 of Civil Procedure Code, 1908\.
10\. Per contra, the respondents' common contention is that :
(i) no notices have been taken by the revision petitioner after admission of
the C.R.P., hence, C.R.P cannot be heard for final hearing on this ground
alone; (ii) the co-decree holders in O.S.No.190/1987 are necessary parties,
without adding them by the petitioner, CRP is not maintainable; (iii) the
order in Revision is an appealable order, hence,  6 Revision is not
maintainable; and (iv) since the petitioner is a third party, in the absence
of source of knowledge, delay cannot be condoned, particularly, when the
petitioner failed to explain sufficient cause for the delay and that the
vested rights of the respondents cannot be unsettled at the instance of the
petitioner who is not vigilant and negligent in pursuing his rights.
11\. With regard to the point-(i), the contention of respondents is that on
admission of the revision for hearing, such revision shall be disposed of only
after service of notice on the parties/respondents as per Rule 41-C of the
High Court appellate side Rules. But, whereas, the petitioners replied that
notices were served on some of the contesting respondents and also notices
were issued to respondents by way of substituted services, but no body
appeared in pursuance of substituted services. More so, the High Court allowed
the petition filed under Order 22 Rule 4(4) of C.P.C. and granted exemption
which became final, as the same is neither modified nor set aside.
12\. Order 41 Rule 12 contemplates that the appellate court shall fix a date
for hearing the appeal. Rule 14 contemplates that notice of the date fixed for
hearing under Rule 12 shall be affixed in the appellate Court house, like a
notice shall be sent by the appellate court to the court from whose decree the
appeal is preferred and shall be served on the respondent or his pleader in
the appellate court in the manner provided for service on defendants of
summons to appear and answer. Sub-Rule 2 of Rule 14 of Order 41 empowers the
appellate  7 court that the appellate court itself can cause notice to be
served on the respondent or on his pleader instead of sending the notice to
the court from whose decree the appeal is preferred.
13\. The State of Andhra Pradesh inserted the provision in Order 41 Rule 14 in
Sub-Rule 1 enabling the appellate court to dispense with the service of notice
on the respondents whoever remain absent, against whom the suit has been
proceeded ex parte in the Court from whose decree the appeal is preferred or
who have been declared absent by the said Court.
14\. No doubt, Chapter 9A, Rule 99 and 101 mandate notice to the respondents
on admission. There is a distinction between notice before admission and
notice after admission for hearing of revision. The record shows that the
C.R.P. was admitted on 4.8.2017. In fact, the proceedings sheet clearly shows
that the C.R.P. M.P. No.831 of 2010 was filed to bring the petitioners 2 to 4
being legal representatives of the deceased - 1st petitioner which was ordered
on 17.6.2015. In C.R.P. M.P. No.2242 of 2015 the petitioners were directed to
serve notice on respondents who are respondent Nos. 10, 11 and 14 to 20 by
substitute service by way of publication in Eenadu daily newspaper of district
editions of Hyderabad, Ranga Reddy District, Krishna District and East
Godavari District by mentioning the date of hearing as 27.7.2015. The paper
publication was filed in USR No.3753 of 2015 on 2.7.2015.
8
15\. In total, there are 22 respondents in the C.R.P. and notices were issued
to all the respondents. Respondents 1, 2, 4, 7, 8 and 13 were served with
notice, but none appeared. A substituted service was ordered for respondents
3, 5, 6, 11 and 14 to 22 by way of publication in Eenadu daily newspaper on
30.6.2015 and proof of service was filed in USR No.3753 of 2015. In response
to the notice, Sri B.Venkata Rama Rao, counsel appeared for R9 and R12 and Sri
Challa Ajay Kumar appeared for R21 and R22.
16\. The record further shows that in spite of notices by substituted service
in the Eenadu daily newspaper, none appeared in response to substituted
services. Except R7, through a counsel, none appeared before the Joint
Collector also, in spite of substituted service by way of publication in
Vartha daily newspaper of Guntur, Vijayawada, West Godavari and Hyderabad
editions on 20.3.2002. Sri B.Venkata Rama Rao is appearing in the appeal for
respondents 2 to 6 and 8 to 17. Even after admission of the C.R.P., the same
counsel who appeared before admission continued their appearance and contested
the revision. The High Court itself posted the main C.R.P. for hearing and now
during the course of arguments, respondents' counsel came with a plea that
there is no notice after admission of C.R.P. This objection was never raised
even after posting the main C.R.P. for arguments, except at the stage of
arguments.
17\. The further contention of respondents is that the petitioners failed to
bring on record L.Rs. of the deceased -  9 respondents 10 and 18, therefore,
the petition stands abated.
18\. In reply, the petitioner contended that the notice sent to R18 was
returned and a paper publication was also issued and there is no communication
regarding the death of R18, therefore, the whereabouts of R18 are not known.
The V.R.O. intimated to the 4th petitioner that no family members of R18 are
residing in the village and their whereabouts are not known and to that effect
issued certificate dated 5.12.2015, therefore, they filed application under
Order 22 Rule 4.
19\. In the case of B.C.Harinarayanamma and Others Vs. V.Narasimha and others
(2001 (4) ALT 580), relied on by the respondents, this High Court held that in
a suit for declaration of title and for recovery of possession of the suit
land from the defendants, if the suit against one of the plaintiffs, who is a
co-owner stands dismissed by abatement, due to the death of the said co-owner
and if the suit is decreed for declaration of title and possession in favour
of the surviving co-owners, it leads to conflict of judgments. The difficulty
arises always when there is a joint decree.
In the case of Meka Chinnappa Reddy and another Vs. Meka Pulla Reddy
(2000(4)ALD 492) the suit was for mere injunction on the ground that the
defendants were trespassers and were interfering with the possession of
plaintiffs. Even in the absence of legal representatives of one of the
plaintiffs, the decree in favour of  10 surviving plaintiff for injunction
would not result in any conflict of decisions or contradictory findings.
Further, such a decree cannot be said to be inexecutable.
But the facts of this case would disclose that it is a suit for declaration of
title and for recovery of possession of the suit land from the defendants.
There is no escape from holding that failure to bring on record the legal
representatives of the deceased appellant would result in abatement of the
suit in its entirety inasmuch as the trial court has passed the decree in the
absence of legal representatives of one of the plaintiffs.
20\. In the case of Mohd. Safdar Shareef (died) per LRs Vs. Mohammed Ali
(died) per LRs (1993 (1) ALT 522) this Court held that common decree for
possession and profits is sought for against all the defendants. The decree in
question is joint and indivisible. Even according to the written statement,
the defendants contend that they are jointly in possession and enjoyment of
1932 square yards of site. Therefore, it is clear that any decree that may be
passed against some of the defendants would be inconsistent with a decree of
dismissal of the suit in respect of other defendants. Ultimately, this High
Court held that CCCA filed by the plaintiff has abated since legal
representatives of the 2nd respondent were not brought on record.
21\. The respondents in support of their contention that the petition is bad
for non-joinder of necessary parties, relied on decision in P.Govinda Reddy
Vs. Golla Obulamma (AIR 1971 AP 363)  11 wherein the Apex Court in a suit for
recovery of amount on the foot of mortgage held that Order 34 Rule 1 of Code
enjoins that all those interested in right to redemption or in security have
to be joined as parties to suit and such prohibition does not apply to case
where mortgagors had severed their interest in mortgage.
22\. In the case on hand, admittedly, respondents 8 and 9 are legal heirs of
the 10th respondent. The settled law is that if some of the heirs of the
respondents are already on record, there is no necessity to bring all other
L.Rs. on record and persons already on record are entitled to prosecute the
case.
23\. The petitioner in support of his contention that some of the respondents
are contesting the matter and the petition is maintainable even without
bringing other L.Rs. in view of the fact that whereabouts of other legal heirs
of R18 are not known, relied on decision in the case of Mahmud Mian (dead)
through L.Rs. and another Vs. Shamsuddin Mian (dead) through L.Rs. and others
((2005) 11 SCC 582) wherein the apex Court held that in a suit for partition
on account of death of one of the parties, the appeal could not have abated in
its entirety.
24\. In Mohammad Arif Vs. Allah Rabbul Alamin and others (AIR 1982 SC 948(1))
it was held in the second appeal itself that Mohammad Arif had been joined as
a co-appellant along with his vendor Mohammad Ahmad. On the death of Mohammad
Ahmed all that was required to be done was that the appellant who was on
record should have been shown as legal representative inasmuch as he was the
12 transferee of the property in question and at least as an intermeddler was
entitled to be treated as legal representative of the Mohammed Ahmed. He being
on record the estate of the deceased appellant qua the property in question
was represented and there was no necessity for application for bringing the
legal representatives of the deceased appellant on record.
25\. Similarly, in the case of Changki village Vs. Tibungba ao (1990 AIR SC
73) the Apex Court held that apart from the fact that one of the heirs of
respondent no.4 was already on record and the time to bring the legal
representatives of Respondent No.4 has not elapsed. It has to be borne in mind
that the provisions of the Civil Procedure Code were not applicable in all
their force and vigour to civil disputes in Nagaland.
26\. In the case of T.Gnanavel Vs. T.S.Kanagaraj And Anr. the Apex Court by
judgment dated 25.2.2009 in Civil Appeal No.1259 of 2009 held that the Court
whenever it thinks fit, may exempt the plaintiff from the necessity of
substituting the legal representatives of any such defendant who has failed to
file a written statement or who, having filed it, has failed to appear and
contest the suit at the hearing; and judgment may, in such case, be pronounced
against the said defendant notwithstanding the death of such defendant and
shall have the same force and effect as if it has been pronounced before death
took place.
13
27\. In Sushil K.Chakravarty (D) through L.Rs. Vs. M/s.Tej Properties Pvt.
Ltd. the Apex Court by judgment dated 19.3.2013 in Civil Apeal Nos.2600-2601
of 2013 held that it is open to the Court to exempt the plaintiff from the
necessity of substituting the legal representatives of any such defendant who
has failed to file a written statement or who, having filed it, has failed to
appear and contest the suit at the hearing; and judgment may, in such case, be
pronounced against the said defendant notwithstanding the death of such
defendant and shall have the same force and effect as if it has been
pronounced before death took place.
28\. In the case of Mahabir Prasad Vs. Jage Ram (AIR 1971 SC 742) the apex
Court held that under Order 41 Rule 4 CPC it is open to the appellate court
when other persons who were parties to the proceeding before Subordinate Court
and against whom a decree proceeded on a ground which was common to the
appellant and to those other persons are either not impleaded as parties to
appeal or are impleaded as respondents. Even if there are other heirs and
legal representatives and no application for impleading them is made within
the period of limitation prescribed at the limitation act the proceedings will
not abate.
29\. In the case of Government of Andhra Pradesh v. Pratap Karan {2016 (4) ALD
2 (SC)} the Apex Court held that indisputably all the plaintiffs had equal
shares in the suit property left by their predecessors. Hence, in the event of
death of any of the plaintiffs, the  14 estate is fully and substantially
represented by the other sharers as owners of the suit property. Therefore, it
is of the view that by reason of non-substitution of the legal
representative(s) of the deceased plaintiffs, who died during the pendency of
the appeal in the High Court, entire appeal shall not stand abated. Remaining
sharers, having definite shares in the estate of the deceased, shall be
entitled to proceed with the appeal without the appeal having been abated.
30\. In the case of B.Ramachandra Reddy and others Vs. Nelli Subbamma (2003
(1) ALD 763) this High Court held that since the 1st appellant, as father of
2nd appellant was managing the estate of the 2nd appellant, he, for the
purpose of Section 2(11) C.P.C., would be deemed to be a legal representative
to the estate of the deceased-2nd appellant. It is well settled that when one
of the legal representatives is already on record, the proceedings against a
deceased party do not abate, and his other legal representatives, who also
represent his estate, can be brought on record or allowed to come on record at
any time even beyond the period of limitation prescribed.
31\. In the case of Chaganti Subbarao Vs. Thimmaraji Satyanarayana (2007 (3)
ALT 408) this High Court held that where several defendants are impleaded in a
suit, the question whether the death of one of them, would bring about a total
abatement, would depend upon the nature of cause of action, in the suit. If
the cause of action is divisible, the abatement will be restricted to that
portion of the claim, made against the deceased party, and the rest of the
claim would  15 survive. On the other hand, if the cause of action is
indivisible, the entire suit would abate, if steps are not taken to bring the
legal representatives, within the stipulated time.
32\. In the case of Mohd. Kaleemullah Vs. Mohd. Azizullah and others (2005 (6)
ALD 303) this High Court held that whenever a party to the suit dies during
the pendency of the proceedings, corresponding obligation is cast upon the
parties concerned, to bring the legal representatives of the deceased party,
on record. Failure to do so would entail in abatement of the suit. Sub-Rule
(4) of Rule 4 of Order XXII CPC enables the Court, to relieve the plaintiff in
a suit, from the obligation to bring the legal representatives of the deceased
defendant on record, in case, such defendant remained ex parte. The basis for
such a course is that when the party did not choose to respond to the summons
issued by the Court during his lifetime, his estate cannot stand on a better
footing, after his death.
33\. In the case of Velamala Appa Rao Vs. Baggu Appayya (2005 (5) ALT 695)
this High Court held that order 22 Rule 4 CPC discloses that the death of one
of the defendants, ipso facto, does not result in abatement of the entire
suit. Much would depend on the nature of reliefs claimed against them and the
severability of the cause of action. Sub-rule (1) thereof, discloses that the
abatement would result if only the right to sue survives, vis-à-vis the dead
person. Sub-Rule (3) mandates that, where no steps are taken to bring the
legal  16 representatives on record, the suit shall abate against the
deceased- defendant.
34\. In the case of Gema Coutinho Rodrigues Vs. Bricio Franciso Pereira (AIR
1994 SC 1199) the Apex Court held that so long as one of the heirs has been
brought on record, substantially representing estate of the deceased
plaintiff, application would not be dismissed on the ground that the suit has
abated or it could not proceed.
35\. In the case of Newanness Vs. Shaikh Mohamad (1995 Supp (2) SCC 529) the
Apex Court held that since the 3rd defendant is already on record representing
all the heirs of the first defendant widow, the question of abatement does not
arise.
36\. In the case of Sahdeo Singh Vs. Ramchhabila Singh (AIR 1978 PATNA 258)
the Patna High Court held that where during pendency of a suit by co-owners
for declaration of title and possession against trespassers one of the co-
owners dies the suit will not abate for non-substitution of his legal
representatives for the reason that the suit is maintainable even by some of
the co-owners.
37\. From the above decisions the settled law is that if some L.Rs. are
already on record, there is no necessity to bring all other L.Rs. on record.
On account of death of one of the parties, the appeal could not be abated in
its entirety. Further, when the right to sue survives upon the surviving
parties, Order 22 Rule 2 CPC will come into operation. Further, when a party
did not choose to respond to the  17 summons issued by the Court during his
lifetime, his estate cannot stand on a better footing, after his death. Under
Order 22 Rule 4(4) CPC the Court is empowered to exempt the petitioner before
judgment is pronounced. This Court in I.A. No.2 of 2017 (CRP MP No.5418 of
2017) exempted the petitioners from bringing L.Rs. of the 18th respondent.
Admittedly, respondents 8 and 9 herein are the L.Rs. of the deceased
respondent No.10. The counsel for respondent No.9 who is the L.R. of the 10th
respondent also not intimated or communicated the date of death and legal
heirs of the 10th respondent as contemplated under Order 22 Rule 10-A of CPC.
More so, in this case in fact notices were served on respondents 1, 2, 4, 7, 8
and 13, but none appeared. A substituted service was ordered for respondents
3, 5, 6, 11 and 14 to 22 by way of publication in Eenadu daily newspaper on
30.6.2015 and proof of service was filed in USR No.3753 of 2015. In response
to the notice, Sri B.Venkata Rama Rao, counsel appeared for R9 and R12 and Sri
Challa Ajay Kumar appeared for R21 and R22. Earlier also, as discussed above,
in the year 2008 itself a paper publication was given on 4.2.2008, in
pursuance of the paper publication and notice, on another time also, none
appeared. On behalf of respondents, one advocate appeared before the Joint
Collector. Again, paper publication was made on 20.3.2002 in Guntur,
Vijayawada, West Godavari and Hyderabad editions of Vartha daily newspaper.
Thereafter, one Advocate appeared for respondents 2 to 6 and 8 to 17, which
shows that all the respondents appeared before the appellate authority, but in
C.R.P., none appeared representing respondents 5 to 8, 10, 11 and 13 to  18
20\. Though notices were served on respondents 1,2,4,7,8 and 13, none appeared
on behalf of respondents 7,8 and 13. The V.R.O. also issued certificate on
5.12.2015 that the whereabouts of the legal heirs of the 18th respondent are
not known. After the V.R.O. issued the said certificate on 5.12.2015, the
petitioners herein filed I.A. No.2 of 2017 (CRP MP No.5418 of 2017) and this
Court granted exemption.
38\. Respondents 8 and 9 are legal representatives of the 10th respondent and
in view of the exemption granted by the High Court in the application filed
under Order 22, Rule 4(4) this petition is tenable on the principle that so
long as one of the heirs has been brought on record, substantially
representing the estate of the deceased plaintiff, application would not be
dismissed on the ground that the suit has abated or it could not proceed.
Hence, there can be no abatement as some of the legal representatives are
already on record.
39\. The contention of the petitioners is that the limitation for filing
appeal commences from the date fraud is discovered, that is to say from the
date of knowledge of the order.
40\. In support of their contention, they relied on decision in the case of
State of Punjab Vs. Mst.Qaisar Jehan Begum (AIR 1963 SC 1604) wherein the Apex
Court held that a literal and mechanical construction of the words "six months
from the date of the Collector's award" occurring in the second part of clause
(b) of the proviso would not be appropriate and the knowledge of the party
affected by the award, either actual or constructive, being an essential
requirement of  19 fair play and natural justice, the expression used in the
proviso must mean the date when the award is either communicated to the party
or is known by him either actually or constructively. Where the award was
never communicated to the party, the question is when did the party know the
award either actually or constructively. Knowledge of the award does not mean
a mere knowledge of the fact that an award has been made. The knowledge must
relate to the essential contents of the award.
41\. In the case of Nakul Chandra Dutta Vs. Ajit Kumar Chakrabarti (AIR 1982
CALCUTTA 564) the Calcutta High Court held that in the case of an application
to set aside a sale on the ground of fraud under Order 21, Rule 90 CPC
limitation runs not from the date when the applicant has some hearsay
knowledge of the factum of sale, but when he has a clear and definite
knowledge of the facts constituting the fraud.
42\. In the case of Dhurjati Mohan Das Vs. Balai Chandra Das (AIR 1978
CALCUTTA 262) the Calcutta High Court held that the limitation commences from
the date fraud is discovered by the landlord.
43\. In the case of Babubhai Bhagwanji Mehta Vs. State of Gujarat (2004 (2)
CCC 149 (Guj.)) the Gujarat High Court held that the period of limitation
would start only from the date of the knowledge.
20
44\. In the case of A.Balaiah Vs. The District Collector, Hyderabad District
an unreported decision dated 15.12.1982 in W.P. No.575 of 1981 and C.R.P.
No.1947 of 1982, this High Court held that a perusal of Section 24 discloses
that a wide discretion was given to the authority to entertain the appeal
under its discretion. The 30 days time prescribed under Section 24 of the Act
is enlarged at the discretion of the appellate authority. The proceedings
under Sections 6 and 8 are in the nature of public deliberations and the
conversion of tenure of an inam into ordinary tenure has to take place in the
public interest. The ordinary test of sufficient cause would not apply in the
case of an aggrieved party showing sufficient cause for every day's delay in
filing the appeal. Section 5 of the Limitation Act has no application as
Section 24 itself has given power to the authority to entertain the appeal.
45\. In the case of Meenakshi Ammal Vs. Somasundara Nadar (AIR 1970 MADRAS
242) it was held that where the period of limitation is prescribed from the
date of order, it means that the period should be counted from the date of
knowledge of the order, actual or constructive, would seem to be applicable to
all enactments.
46\. In the case of Raja Harish Chandra Raj Singh Vs. The Deputy Land
Acquisition Officer (AIR 1961 SC 1500) the Apex Court in the case where an
order was not passed in the presence of the parties or after notice to them of
the date when the order would be passed, the expression within 30 days after
making of the order used in the said  21 section means within 30 days after
the date on which the communication of the order reached the parties affected
by it. The time can begin to run only from the date on which the decision is
communicated to the parties.
47\. Per contra, the respondents in support of their contentions that the
petitioner was very much conscious of the fact of the orders passed by the
R.D.O. and further the expression sufficient cause used in Section 5 of the
Limitation Act, 1963 and other statutes is elastic enough to enable the courts
to apply the law in a meaningful manner which serves the ends of justice,
relied on a decision in the case of B.Madhuri Goud v. B.Damodar Reddy ((2012)
12 SCC 693) wherein it was held that it is axiomatic that condonation of delay
is a matter of discretion of the court. Section 5 of the Limitation Act does
not say that such discretion can be exercised only if the delay is within a
certain limit. Length of delay is no matter, acceptability of the explanation
is the only criterion. If there was any iota of truth in the respondent's
story that the certified copies of the documents were misplaced by the office
of his counsel and the same were noticed by the counsel on 2.3.2010 while
preparing arguments in A.S. No.200 of 2001, the minimum which he was expected
to do was to file an affidavit of the advocate concerned. Therefore, the
contention of the respondent about the misplacement of the documents by the
office of the advocate was vague to the core.
22
48\. In the case of Shiv Kumar Sharma Vs. Santosh Kumari ((2007) 8 SCC 600) it
was held that a court of law cannot exercise its discretionary jurisdiction
de'hors the statutory law. Its discretion must be exercised in terms of the
existing statute.
49\. In the case of State of Nagaland Vs. Lipok AO ((2005) 3 SCC 752) the Apex
Court held that proof of sufficient cause is a condition precedent for
exercise of the extraordinary discretion vested in the court. What counts is
not the length of the delay but the sufficiency of the cause and shortness of
the delay is one of the circumstances to be taken into account in using the
discretion.
50\. In the case of N.Balakrishnan Vs. M.Krishnamurthy ((1998) 7 SCC 123) the
Apex Court held that what is sufficient cause should be construed liberally.
Acceptability of the explanation is the only criterion, length of delay is not
relevant. While condoning the delay, the Court should also keep in mind the
consequent litigation expenses to be incurred by the opposite party and should
compensate him accordingly.
51\. In the case of D.Vidya Bai and others Vs. Anil Kumar R.Kamdar (died) per
LRs. (2012 (1) ALD 518) this High Court held the delay of 10 days in filing
cannot be condoned, when petitioners are negligent, there is inaction on their
part and more over they have adopted dilatory tactics.
23
52\. In the case of Majji Somulu @ Swamynaidu Vs. Majji Nagaraju @ Nagesh
(2015 (6) ALT 301) this High Court held that for condonation of delay,
sufficient cause be shown. Court must not be pedantic in deciding delay
condonation petition. It should not be dismissed on the mere ground of long
delay if the explanation offered is bona fide.
53\. In the case of Mohd. Rafiuddin Vs. Sri Amruthlal (2012 (3) ALT 673) this
High Court held that the inaction or negligence on the part of petitioner in
prosecuting the suit is wanton and deliberate and the cause for the delay
mentioned in the petition as ill-health is false which cannot be condoned.
54\. In the case of Postmaster General Vs. Living Media India ltd. ((2012) 3
SCC 563) the Apex Court held that condonation of delay is an exception and
should not be used as an anticipated benefit for government departments and
offering usual explanation that file was kept pending due to procedural red
tape is not a sufficient cause.
55\. From the above decisions settled law is that the expression 'within 30
days after making of the order' means within 30 days after the date on which
communication of the order reached the affected party. The time can begin to
run only from the date on which the decision is communicated. The date of
order mentioned in Section 5 of the Limitation Act means date of knowledge of
that order. Knowledge means knowledge of the contents of the order, but not
mere knowledge that an order was passed.
24
56\. Further, the settled principle of law is that the 30 days time prescribed
under Section 24 of the Act can be enlarged at the discretion of the appellate
authority. The proceedings under Sections 6 and 8 of A.P. (TA) Abolition of
Inams Act are in the nature of public deliberation and the conversion of
tenure of an inamdar into ordinary tenure has to take place in the public
interest. Ordinary test of sufficient cause would not apply in the case of an
aggrieved party showing sufficient cause for every day's delay in filing the
appeal and that Section 5 of the Limitation Act has no application as Section
24 itself has given power to the authority to entertain the appeal.
57\. In the case on hand the assertion in the petition is that late K.Chandra
Sekhara Rao and three others jointly purchased an extent of Ac.84.35 guntas in
Sy.No.222 of Gajularamaram Village, Rangareddy District from the heirs of
inamdar under an agreement of sale date 7.9.1981. In view of the fact that the
regular sale deed was not executed by the vendors, the purchasers filed O.S.
No.190 of 1987 for specific performance and the said suit was decreed on
10.3.1992. The respondents 5 to 20 herein approached the 3rd respondent and
applied for issuance of Occupancy Rights Certificate in their favour by
producing documents, which according to petitioners fabricated documents.
Further, the petitioners relied on the letter No.VCS/1112/05 dated 28.1.2005
issued by the Commissioner & I.G. of Registration & Stamps, A.P., Hyderabad to
the petitioner informing that in the reference 2 and 3 dated 27.1.2005 the
Central Record Room,  25 Superintendent has informed on verification that the
name of Mr.Nasurulla Khan as stamp vendor is not existing in their office as
requested by the petitioner herein in the years 1972, 73 and 74. The Deputy
Inspector General (R&S) Hyderabad range, Hyderabad in Memo. No.SV/120/05,
dated 23.2.2005 informed to the petitioner that the District Registrar,
Hyderabad reported that the stamp vendor named Sri Nasurulla Khan of Chatta
Bazar, Hyderabad is not forthcoming in the list of Stamp Vendors of Hyderabad
District.
58\. According to respondents, they purchased stamp papers from the stamp
vendor Mr.Nasurulla Khan. According to the above said endorsements, no such
stamp vendor is there at that time and it is the case of the petitioners that
the 3rd respondent issued ORC without conducting proper enquiry about the
documents relied on by the respondents.
59\. It is also the case of the petitioner that no notice as contemplated
under Rule 6 (2) of the A.P. (T.A.) Abolition of Inams Rules 1975 was issued
by the 2nd respondent to petitioners - interested parties. The alleged
agreement of sale on which the respondents claiming is not registered document
as required under Section 17 of Registration Act, 1908 and it does not create
any rights.
Even the alleged GPA was also not registered. It is also further alleged that
the original owners gave statement before the R.D.O. that they have not
executed any agreement of sale in favour of respondents.
26
60\. The specific allegation of the petitioners is that R.D.O. passed the
orders dated 16.9.1994 granting ORC to respondents without issuing any notice
or affording an opportunity of personal hearing and further that the order is
passed in collusion with the respondents who played fraud.
61\. Aggrieved by the orders dated 16.9.1994, petitioners filed appeal under
Section 24 of the Act and the Joint Collector - 2nd respondent disposed of the
said appeal vide order dated 29.6.2004 directing the R.D.O. for fresh
consideration and disposal on merits in accordance with law after giving
opportunity to both parties within a period of two months from the date of
receipt of the order. The specific plea of the petitioner is that he never
executed any documents assigning the decree in favour of respondents 2 to 17
and the whole proceedings are illegal. The 10th respondent died, his L.Rs. are
respondents 8 and 9, but the respondents 2 to 6 and 8 to 17 have not appeared
before the appellate authority either in person or through their counsel in
spite of notices and also substitution of service by publication in the
newspapers dated 20.3.2002. Respondents 8 to 17 in the appeal are respondents
11 to 20 herein. Respondents 21 and 22 came on record by filing an implead
petition before the Joint Collector/2nd respondent and respondents 9, 12, 21
and 22 appeared through their counsel. Before the 2nd respondent, respondents
9 and 12 appeared through counsel and their counsel also counsel of
respondents 11 to 20 herein who are respondents 8 to 17 in the appeal. The 2nd
27 respondent - Joint Collector by order dated 29.6.2004 set aside the orders
dated 16.9.1994 and remanded back the matter to the 3rd respondent - R.D.O.
for fresh consideration and disposal on merits. Questioning the same, C.R.P.
No.4601 of 2005 was filed and the same was allowed remitting the matter to the
Joint Collector - 3rd respondent therein. The Joint Collector dismissed the
appeal on the ground that there is delay of 8 years.
62\. It is the specific allegation of the petitioners that the 1st petitioner
- deceased acted in diligence and in spite of repeated approach, they have not
supplied the copy of the order to the petitioner and even after direction
issued by the High Court, there is a lot of delay of one year three months in
supplying the copy of the order to the 1st petitioner. The petitioner in the
impugned application clearly stated that no notice was issued giving an
opportunity of hearing and that the copy of the order was not supplied, but
the appellate authority did not consider the same. A copy of the order was
supplied to the petitioner after 19.7.2000 and as such there is delay of only
356 days. There is a delay of 6 years in supplying the copy of the order to
the petitioner by the 3rd respondent. The petitioner, as earlier stated above,
came to the knowledge of the order on the communication of the order dated
16.9.1994 by the appellate authority only after 19.7.2000 i.e., after more
than 6 years. As held by the Apex Court and also our High Court the delay
starts to run only from the date of communication of the order i.e., after
19.7.2000 and thus the delay is not 8 years as held by the  28 appellate
authority in the impugned order. Accordingly, there is delay of only 356 days.
63\. The 2nd respondent in the impugned order dated 9.5.2006 observed that as
per Section 24 of the A.P. (TA) Abolition of Inams Act, 1955 an appeal has to
be preferred within 30 days from the date of decision or such further time as
prescribed authority may for sufficient cause allow. The institution of
proceedings 7 years after the issuance of Occupancy Rights Certificate
militates against all canons of justice and one who has slept over his rights
for such an extraordinary length of time should not be allowed to litigate in
respect of those rights. The appeal is barred by the sheer antiquity and
obscurity of the transaction.
64\. Though the Joint Collector in the order stated that the appellant has
taken the plea of absence of knowledge for condonation of delay, he found that
mere plea of absence of knowledge is not sufficient cause for condonation of
delay. He observed that the real test in all such cases is the earliest
opportunity the appellant had for securing knowledge of the impugned order.
The appellant staking a claim for occupancy rights, ought to have applied for
Occupancy Rights Certificate immediately after the date of vesting. That he
did not do so which indicate lack of diligence on the part of appellant. The
Occupancy Rights Certificate was granted in the year 1994 and the appeal was
filed in the year 2001. The delay mentioned in the application is 356 days. On
18.3.2006 the appellant advocate mentioned that additional grounds for
condonation of delay will be  29 filed but no further grounds are filed as on
date. Hence, the 2nd respondent found that petitioner has not explained the
delay of 8 years in filing the appeal and dismissed the application.
65\. The legal position is succinctly expounded in the judgment of the Hon'ble
Supreme Court in Esha Bhattacharjee Vs. Managing Committee of Raghunathpur
Nafar Academy (2013 (12) SCC 649), wherein while interpreting the provisions
of Section 5 of the Limitation Act regarding condonation of delay, the
principles applicable thereto were summarised as follows :-
> (i) There should be a liberal, pragmatic, justice oriented, non-pedantic
> approach while dealing with an application for condonation of delay, for the
> courts are not supposed to legalise injustice but are obliged to remove
> injustice.
> (ii) The terms "sufficient cause" should be understood in their proper
> spirit, philosophy and purpose regard being had to the fact that these terms
> are basically elastic and are to be applied in proper perspective to the
> obtaining fact-situation.
> (iii) Substantial justice being paramount and pivotal the technical
> considerations should not be given undue and uncalled for emphasis.
> (iv) No presumption can be attached to deliberate causation of delay but,
> gross negligence on the part of the counsel or litigant is to be taken note
> of.
> (v) Lack of bona fides imputable to a party seeking condonation of delay is
> a significant and relevant fact.
(vi) It is to be kept in mind that adherence to strict proof should not affect
public justice and cause public mischief  30 because the courts are required
to be vigilant so that in the ultimate eventuate there is no real failure of
justice.
(vii) The concept of liberal approach has to encapsule the conception of
reasonableness and it cannot be allowed a totally unfettered free play.
(viii) There is a distinction between inordinate delay and a delay of short
duration or few days, for to the former doctrine of prejudice is attracted
whereas to the latter it may not be attracted. That apart, the first one
warrants strict approach whereas the second calls for a liberal delineation.
(ix) The conduct, behaviour and attitude of a party relating to its inaction
or negligence are relevant factors to be taken into consideration. It is so as
the fundamental principle is that the courts are required to weigh the scale
of balance of justice in respect of both parties and the said principle cannot
be given a total go by in the name of liberal approach.
(x) If the explanation offered is concocted or the grounds urged in the
application are fanciful, the courts should be vigilant not to expose the
other side unnecessarily to face such a litigation.
(xi) It is to be borne in mind that no one gets away with fraud,
misrepresentation or interpolation by taking recourse to the technicalities of
law of limitation.
(xii) The entire gamut of facts are to be carefully scrutinized and the
approach should be based on the paradigm of judicial discretion which is
founded on objective reasoning and not on individual perception.
(xiii) The State or a public body or an entity representing a collective cause
should be given some acceptable latitude.  31
66\. The specific case of the petitioner is that even though he applied for
certified copies of the order, the R.D.O. supplied copies only after 19.7.2000
and the limitation starts to run from the date on which he received copy of
the order i.e., after 19.7.2000, on which date the petitioner got knowledge of
the contents of the orders against them. The limitation starts to run after
19.7.2000, accordingly there is delay of 356 days, but the appellate authority
misinterpreted the date of complete knowledge of the order, which means
contents of the order. The order of the R.D.O. was without issuing any notice
or affording an opportunity of hearing to the petitioner. The petitioner got
knowledge of the order only after receiving copy of the order i.e., after
19.7.2000, as such the delay is 356 days, but not 8 years as held by the 2nd
respondent. The petitioner properly explained the delay of 356 days, but the
2nd respondent, without considering this fact of delay in supplying the copy
and knowledge of copy of the order and also the date of knowledge i.e., after
19.7.2000, erred in finding that the petitioner has not shown sufficient
cause.
67\. In the facts and circumstances discussed above, I am of the considered
view that some of the respondents have received notices and some other
respondents were served notices by substituted service by publication in the
newspapers of different district editions where respondents are residing on
20.3.2002. The 9th respondent, who is L.R. of the 10th respondent, is on
record and properly represented. Some of the respondents, having received
notices by way of substituted service,  32 did not appear. This is an
application under Section 24 of AP (TA) Abolition of Inams Act and Section 5
of Limitation Act to condone the delay only. The High Court also exempted the
petitioner under Order 22 Rule 4(4) CPC for bringing L.Rs. of 18th respondent
in view of the certificate issued by the V.R.O. that the whereabouts of the
remaining L.Rs. of 18th respondent are not known. The orders passed by the
Court in granting exemption became final and they have not approached any
Court questioning the said order. Co-sharers are not necessary parties and in
their absence also the dispute in an application to condone the delay can be
decided.
68\. I am further of the view that the Court should take liberal, pragmatic,
justice oriented, non-pedantic approach while dealing with an application
under Section 5 of the Limitation Act. The Courts are not supposed to legalise
injustice but are obliged to remove injustice. The term sufficient cause
should be understood in their proper spirit, philosophy and purpose regard
being had to the fact that these terms are basically elastic and are to be
applied in proper perspective to the obtaining fact-situation. Substantial
justice being paramount and pivotal the technical considerations should not be
given undue and uncalled for emphasis. The cause shown is a bona fidi cause to
condone the delay which is sufficient and relevant fact. Strict proof should
not affect public justice and cause public mischief. Therefore, the court
should be vigilant so that in the ultimate eventuate there is no real failure
of justice. Further, courts are required to weigh the scale of  33 balance of
justice in respect of both parties and the said principle cannot be given a
total go by in the name of liberal approach. The court also should be vigilant
that no one gets away with fraud, misrepresentation or interpolation by taking
recourse to the technicalities of law of limitation
69\. After carefully scrutinizing the entire facts and circumstances and
basing on the paradigm of judicial discretion, I am of the view that the delay
is properly explained by the petitioner as due to lack of knowledge and due to
non-supply of copy of the orders. Admittedly, petitioner is not a party to the
impugned proceedings while issuing occupancy rights certificate. No notice in
the said proceedings was issued to the 1st petitioner late K.Chandra Sekhara
Rao who is the co-sharer and no opportunity of hearing was afforded. The delay
is 356 days from the date of knowledge i.e., supply of copy of the order
passed by the RDO i.e., after 19.7.2000. The order passed by the 2nd
respondent is erroneous, perverse and without considering the fact that the
limitation starts to run from the date of knowledge i.e., after 19.7.2000 and
he dismissed the delay petition finding that application is filed with the
delay of more than 8 years, ignoring the fact that the copies of the document
were supplied after 19.7.2000 i.e., the date from which the limitation starts
to run. Accordingly, there is 356 days delay. The petitioners have properly
explained the delay. The appellate court did not consider the settled
principle of law that in view of Section 24 of the Act, Section 5 of the
Limitation Act does not  34 apply. The order suffers from legal infirmities
hence liable to be set aside.
70\. Accordingly, the delay in filing the appeal is condoned while setting
aside the impugned order dated 9.5.2006 in Case No.F1/1188/2006 passed by the
2nd respondent and the 2nd respondent - Joint Collector is directed to hear
the appeal filed by the petitioner and since it is the oldest matter, the 2nd
respondent is directed to dispose of the appeal on merits and in accordance
with law within 3 months from the date of receipt of a copy of the order. In
the meanwhile, both parties are directed to maintain status quo till the
disposal of the appeal.
71\. In the result the Civil Revision Petition is allowed, but however,
without costs.
72\. Consequently, miscellaneous petitions pending, if any, shall stand
closed.
______________________ JUSTICE N. BALAYOGI 20th November, 2018 Gnr/Skmr
delay of more than 8 years, ignoring the fact that the copies of the document
were supplied after 19.7.2000 i.e., the date from which the limitation starts
to run. Accordingly, there is 356 days delay. The petitioners have properly
explained the delay. The appellate court did not consider the settled
principle of law that in view of Section 24 of the Act, Section 5 of the
Limitation Act does not  34 apply. The order suffers from legal infirmities
hence liable to be set aside.
70\. Accordingly, the delay in filing the appeal is condoned while setting
aside the impugned order dated 9.5.2006 in Case No.F1/1188/2006 passed by the
2nd respondent and the 2nd respondent - Joint Collector is directed to hear
the appeal filed by the petitioner and since it is the oldest matter, the 2nd
respondent is directed to dispose of the appeal on merits and in accordance
with law within 3 months from the date of receipt of a copy of the order. In
the meanwhile, both parties are directed to maintain status quo till the
disposal of the appeal.
71\. In the result the Civil Revision Petition is allowed, but however,
Inamdars. As the vendors failed to perform their contract and executed regular
sale deeds, the revision petitioner and others filed O.S.No.190/1987 for
specific performance of contract of sale and the same was decreed on
10.3.1992. Since then, they are in possession and enjoyment of the said
property of Ac.84.35Gts in Survey No.222 of Gajularamaram village, Qutbullapur
Mandal, Ranga Reddy District.  2 In pursuance of the said judgment and decree,
the entire sale consideration was paid to the vendors. In the meanwhile, the
respondents 5 to 20 herein approached respondent No.3 and applied for issuance
of Occupancy Rights Certificate (ORC) by creating false and fabricated
documents stating that they have already entered into agreement of sale with
Inamdars in the year 1973 itself.
4\. The respondent No.3-Revenue Divisional Officer (East) granted occupancy
rights in favour of respondents 5 to 20 by proceedings No.J/7/18/94,
dated:16.9.1994 illegally without following the procedure under the Act. After
came to know of the said order, immediately, the 1st petitioner approached the
respondent No.3 and requested to supply copies of the said orders, but
respondent No.3 refused to furnish the certified copies in spite of repeated
requests.
Thereafter, the petitioner, having no other go, filed Writ Petition No. 3521
of 1999 and the High Court vide orders dated:13.4.1999 directed respondent
delay of more than 8 years, ignoring the fact that the copies of the document
were supplied after 19.7.2000 i.e., the date from which the limitation starts
to run. Accordingly, there is 356 days delay. The petitioners have properly
explained the delay. The appellate court did not consider the settled
principle of law that in view of Section 24 of the Act, Section 5 of the
Limitation Act does not  34 apply. The order suffers from legal infirmities
hence liable to be set aside.
70\. Accordingly, the delay in filing the appeal is condoned while setting
aside the impugned order dated 9.5.2006 in Case No.F1/1188/2006 passed by the
2nd respondent and the 2nd respondent - Joint Collector is directed to hear
the appeal filed by the petitioner and since it is the oldest matter, the 2nd
respondent is directed to dispose of the appeal on merits and in accordance
with law within 3 months from the date of receipt of a copy of the order. In
the meanwhile, both parties are directed to maintain status quo till the
disposal of the appeal.
71\. In the result the Civil Revision Petition is allowed, but however,
Inamdars. As the vendors failed to perform their contract and executed regular
sale deeds, the revision petitioner and others filed O.S.No.190/1987 for
specific performance of contract of sale and the same was decreed on
10.3.1992. Since then, they are in possession and enjoyment of the said
property of Ac.84.35Gts in Survey No.222 of Gajularamaram village, Qutbullapur
Mandal, Ranga Reddy District.  2 In pursuance of the said judgment and decree,
the entire sale consideration was paid to the vendors. In the meanwhile, the
respondents 5 to 20 herein approached respondent No.3 and applied for issuance
of Occupancy Rights Certificate (ORC) by creating false and fabricated
documents stating that they have already entered into agreement of sale with
Inamdars in the year 1973 itself.
4\. The respondent No.3-Revenue Divisional Officer (East) granted occupancy
rights in favour of respondents 5 to 20 by proceedings No.J/7/18/94,
dated:16.9.1994 illegally without following the procedure under the Act. After
came to know of the said order, immediately, the 1st petitioner approached the
respondent No.3 and requested to supply copies of the said orders, but
respondent No.3 refused to furnish the certified copies in spite of repeated
requests.
Thereafter, the petitioner, having no other go, filed Writ Petition No. 3521
of 1999 and the High Court vide orders dated:13.4.1999 directed respondent
delay of more than 8 years, ignoring the fact that the copies of the document
were supplied after 19.7.2000 i.e., the date from which the limitation starts
to run. Accordingly, there is 356 days delay. The petitioners have properly
explained the delay. The appellate court did not consider the settled
principle of law that in view of Section 24 of the Act, Section 5 of the
Limitation Act does not  34 apply. The order suffers from legal infirmities
hence liable to be set aside.
70\. Accordingly, the delay in filing the appeal is condoned while setting
aside the impugned order dated 9.5.2006 in Case No.F1/1188/2006 passed by the
2nd respondent and the 2nd respondent - Joint Collector is directed to hear
the appeal filed by the petitioner and since it is the oldest matter, the 2nd
respondent is directed to dispose of the appeal on merits and in accordance
with law within 3 months from the date of receipt of a copy of the order. In
the meanwhile, both parties are directed to maintain status quo till the
disposal of the appeal.
71\. In the result the Civil Revision Petition is allowed, but however,
Inamdars. As the vendors failed to perform their contract and executed regular
sale deeds, the revision petitioner and others filed O.S.No.190/1987 for
specific performance of contract of sale and the same was decreed on
10.3.1992. Since then, they are in possession and enjoyment of the said
property of Ac.84.35Gts in Survey No.222 of Gajularamaram village, Qutbullapur
Mandal, Ranga Reddy District.  2 In pursuance of the said judgment and decree,
the entire sale consideration was paid to the vendors. In the meanwhile, the
respondents 5 to 20 herein approached respondent No.3 and applied for issuance
of Occupancy Rights Certificate (ORC) by creating false and fabricated
documents stating that they have already entered into agreement of sale with
Inamdars in the year 1973 itself.
4\. The respondent No.3-Revenue Divisional Officer (East) granted occupancy
rights in favour of respondents 5 to 20 by proceedings No.J/7/18/94,
dated:16.9.1994 illegally without following the procedure under the Act. After
came to know of the said order, immediately, the 1st petitioner approached the
respondent No.3 and requested to supply copies of the said orders, but
respondent No.3 refused to furnish the certified copies in spite of repeated
requests.
Thereafter, the petitioner, having no other go, filed Writ Petition No. 3521
of 1999 and the High Court vide orders dated:13.4.1999 directed respondent
No.3 to supply certified copies of the order and thereafter, the respondent
No.3 furnished certified copies through post after 19.7.2000. After receiving
the certified copies of the order, due to ill-health and old age, the revision
petitioner was bed ridden for more than seven months and not in a position to
move. Therefore, he filed an appeal questioning the proceedings with a delay
of 356 days. The said delay is neither wilful nor wanton, but it is only due
to ill-health. The Joint Collector, Ranga Reddy District passed final orders
on 29.6.2004 allowing the appeal by setting aside the  3 orders of the
respondent No.3 and remanded back the matter for fresh consideration.
5\. The respondent no.3 granted Occupancy Rights Certificate to respondents 5
to 20 basing on the alleged deed of assignment dated:6.5.1993 which is fake
delay of more than 8 years, ignoring the fact that the copies of the document
were supplied after 19.7.2000 i.e., the date from which the limitation starts
to run. Accordingly, there is 356 days delay. The petitioners have properly
explained the delay. The appellate court did not consider the settled
principle of law that in view of Section 24 of the Act, Section 5 of the
Limitation Act does not  34 apply. The order suffers from legal infirmities
hence liable to be set aside.
70\. Accordingly, the delay in filing the appeal is condoned while setting
aside the impugned order dated 9.5.2006 in Case No.F1/1188/2006 passed by the
2nd respondent and the 2nd respondent - Joint Collector is directed to hear
the appeal filed by the petitioner and since it is the oldest matter, the 2nd
respondent is directed to dispose of the appeal on merits and in accordance
with law within 3 months from the date of receipt of a copy of the order. In
the meanwhile, both parties are directed to maintain status quo till the
disposal of the appeal.
71\. In the result the Civil Revision Petition is allowed, but however,
Inamdars. As the vendors failed to perform their contract and executed regular
sale deeds, the revision petitioner and others filed O.S.No.190/1987 for
specific performance of contract of sale and the same was decreed on
10.3.1992. Since then, they are in possession and enjoyment of the said
property of Ac.84.35Gts in Survey No.222 of Gajularamaram village, Qutbullapur
Mandal, Ranga Reddy District.  2 In pursuance of the said judgment and decree,
the entire sale consideration was paid to the vendors. In the meanwhile, the
respondents 5 to 20 herein approached respondent No.3 and applied for issuance
of Occupancy Rights Certificate (ORC) by creating false and fabricated
documents stating that they have already entered into agreement of sale with
Inamdars in the year 1973 itself.
4\. The respondent No.3-Revenue Divisional Officer (East) granted occupancy
rights in favour of respondents 5 to 20 by proceedings No.J/7/18/94,
dated:16.9.1994 illegally without following the procedure under the Act. After
came to know of the said order, immediately, the 1st petitioner approached the
respondent No.3 and requested to supply copies of the said orders, but
respondent No.3 refused to furnish the certified copies in spite of repeated
requests.
Thereafter, the petitioner, having no other go, filed Writ Petition No. 3521
of 1999 and the High Court vide orders dated:13.4.1999 directed respondent
No.3 to supply certified copies of the order and thereafter, the respondent
No.3 furnished certified copies through post after 19.7.2000. After receiving
the certified copies of the order, due to ill-health and old age, the revision
petitioner was bed ridden for more than seven months and not in a position to
move. Therefore, he filed an appeal questioning the proceedings with a delay
of 356 days. The said delay is neither wilful nor wanton, but it is only due
to ill-health. The Joint Collector, Ranga Reddy District passed final orders
on 29.6.2004 allowing the appeal by setting aside the  3 orders of the
respondent No.3 and remanded back the matter for fresh consideration.
5\. The respondent no.3 granted Occupancy Rights Certificate to respondents 5
to 20 basing on the alleged deed of assignment dated:6.5.1993 which is fake
delay of more than 8 years, ignoring the fact that the copies of the document
were supplied after 19.7.2000 i.e., the date from which the limitation starts
to run. Accordingly, there is 356 days delay. The petitioners have properly
explained the delay. The appellate court did not consider the settled
principle of law that in view of Section 24 of the Act, Section 5 of the
Limitation Act does not  34 apply. The order suffers from legal infirmities
hence liable to be set aside.
70\. Accordingly, the delay in filing the appeal is condoned while setting
aside the impugned order dated 9.5.2006 in Case No.F1/1188/2006 passed by the
2nd respondent and the 2nd respondent - Joint Collector is directed to hear
the appeal filed by the petitioner and since it is the oldest matter, the 2nd
respondent is directed to dispose of the appeal on merits and in accordance
with law within 3 months from the date of receipt of a copy of the order. In
the meanwhile, both parties are directed to maintain status quo till the
disposal of the appeal.
71\. In the result the Civil Revision Petition is allowed, but however,
