Central Government Act
The Indian Evidence Act, 1872
THE INDIAN EVIDENCE ACT, 1872  
1. Short title, extent and commencement.—This Act may be called the Indian Evidence Act, 1872. It extends to the whole of India 1[except the State of Jammu and Kashmir] and applies to all judicial proceedings in or before any Court, including Courts-martial, 2[other than Courts-martial convened under the Army Act] (44 & 45 Vict., c. 58) 3[the Naval Discipline Act (29 & 30 Vict., c. 109) or 4[***] the Indian Navy (Discipline) Act, 1934 (34 of 1934)5 6[or the Air Force Act] (7 Geo. 5, c. 51) but not to affidavits 7presented to any Court or Officer, nor to proceedings before an arbitrator; and it shall come into force on the first day of September, 1872.
2. Repeal of enactments.—[Rep. by the Repealing Act, 1938 (1 of 1938), sec. 2 and Sch.]
3 Interpretation clause. —In this Act the following words and expressions are
used in the following senses, unless a contrary intention appears from the
context:— “Court”. —“Court” includes all Judges 1 and Magistrates, 2 and all
persons, except arbitrators, legally authorized to take evidence. “Fact”.
—“Fact” means and includes—
(1) any thing, state of things, or relation of things, capable of being
perceived by the senses;
(2) any mental condition of which any person is conscious. Illustrations
(a) That there are certain objects arranged in a certain order in a certain
place, is a fact.
(b) That a man heard or saw something, is a fact.
(c) That a man said certain words, is a fact.
(d) That a man holds a certain opinion, has a certain intention, acts in good
faith, or fraudulently, or uses a particular word in a particular sense, or is
or was at a specified time conscious of a particular sensation, is a fact.
131 (w.e.f. 17-10-2000)."
117\. As to the application of section 145 to police-diaries, see the Code of
Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974), section 172. tc" 1. As to the
application of section 145 to police-diaries, see the Code of Criminal
Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974), section 172."
118\. Ins. by Act 4 of 2003, sec. 2 (w.r.e.f. 31-12-2002). tc" 2. Ins. by Act
4 of 2003, sec. 2 (w.r.e.f. 31-12-2002)."
119\. Section 154 renumbered as sub-section (1) thereof by Act 2 of 2006, sec.
9 (w.e.f. 16-4-2006).
120\. Ins. by Act 2 of 2006, sec. 9 (w.e.f. 16-4-2006).
121\. Subs. by Act 18 of 1872, sec. 11, for "had". tc" 1. Subs. by Act 18 of
1872, sec. 11, for \"had\"."
122\. Clause (4) omitted by Act 4 of 2003, sec. 3 (w.r.e.f. 31-12-2002).
Clause (a), before omission, stood as under: tc" 2. Clause (4) omitted by Act
4 of 2003, sec. 3 (w.r.e.f. 31-12-2002). Clause (a), before omission, stood as
under\:"
or was at a specified time conscious of a particular sensation, is a fact.
(e) That a man has a certain reputation, is a fact. “Relevant”. —One fact is
said to be relevant to another when the one is connected with the other in any
of the ways referred to in the provisions of this Act relating to the
relevancy of facts. “Facts in issue”. —The expression “facts in issue” means
and includes— any fact from which, either by itself or in connection with
other facts, the existence, non-existence, nature, or extent of any right,
liability, or disability, asserted or denied in any suit or proceeding,
necessarily follows. Explanation.— Whenever, under the provisions of the law
for the time being in force relating to Civil Procedure, 3 any Court records
an issue of fact, the fact to be asserted or denied in the answer to such
issue, is a fact in issue. Illustrations A is accused of the murder of B. At
his trial the following facts may be in issue:— That A caused B's death; That
A intended to cause B's death; That A had received grave and sudden
provocation from B; That A at the time of doing the act which caused B's
death, was, by reason of unsoundness of mind, incapable of knowing its nature.
“Document”. —“Document” 4 means any matter expressed or described upon any
substance by means of letters, figures or marks, or by more than one of those
means, intended to be used, or which may be used, for the purpose of recording
that matter. Illustrations A writing 5 is a document; Words printed,
lithographed or photographed are documents; A map or plan is a document; An
inscription on a metal plate or stone is a document; A caricature is a
document. “Evidence” .— “ Evidence” means and includes—
(1) all statements which the Court permits or requires to be made before it by
witnesses, in relation to matters of fact under inquiry, such statements are
called oral evidence;
(2) 6 [all documents including electronic records produced for the inspection
of the Court], such documents are called documentary evidence. “Proved” .—A
fact is said to be proved when, after considering the matters before it, the
Court either believes it to exist, or considers its existence so probable that
a prudent man ought, under the circumstances of the particular case, to act
upon the supposition that it exists. “Disproved”. — A fact is said to be
disproved when, after considering the matters before it, the Court either
believes that it does not exist, or considers its non-existence so probable
that a prudent man ought, under the circumstances of the particular case, to
act upon the supposition that it does not exist. “ Not proved”. — A fact is
said not to be proved when it is neither proved nor disproved.  7 [“ India ”.
—“ India ” means the territory of India excluding the State of Jammu and
Kashmir .] 8 [the expressions “Certifying Authority”, 9 [electronic
signature], 9 [Electronic Signature Certificate], “electronic form”,
“electronic records”, “information”, “secure electronic record”, “secure
digital signature” and “subscriber” shall have the meanings respectively
assigned to them in the Information Technology Act, 2000 (21 of 2000).]
4. “May presume”.—Whenever it is provided by this Act that the Court may presume a fact, it may either regard such fact as proved, unless and until it is disproved, or may call for proof of it. “Shall presume”.—Whenever it is directed by this Act that the Court shall presume a fact, it shall regard such fact as proved, unless and until it is disproved. “Conclusive proof”.—When one fact is declared by this Act to be conclusive proof of another, the Court shall, on proof of the one fact, regard the other as proved, and shall not allow evidence to be given for the purpose of disproving it.
5. Evidence may be given of facts in issue and relevant facts.—Evidence may be given in any suit or proceedings of the existence or non-existence of every fact in issue and of such other facts as are hereinafter declared to be relevant, and of no others. Explanation.—This section shall not enable any person to give evidence of a fact which he is disentitled to prove by any provision of the law for the time being in force relating to Civil Procedure1..—This section shall not enable any person to give evidence of a fact which he is disentitled to prove by any provision of the law for the time being in force relating to Civil Procedure1." Illustrations
(a) A is tried for the murder of B by beating him with a club with the
intention of causing his death. At A’s trial the following facts are in
issue:— A’s beating B with the club; A’s causing B’s death by such beating;
A’s intention to cause B’s death.
(b) A suitor does not bring with him, and have in readiness for production at
the first hearing of the case, a bond on which he relies. This section does
not enable him to produce the bond or prove its contents at a subsequent stage
of the proceedings, otherwise than in accordance with the conditions
prescribed by the Code of Civil Procedure.
6. Relevancy of facts forming part of same transaction.—Facts which, though not in issue, are so connected with a fact in issue as to form part of the same transaction, are relevant, whether they occurred at the same time and place or at different times and places. Illustrations
(a) A is accused of the murder of B by beating him. Whatever was said or done
by A or B or the by-standers at the beating, or so shortly before or after it
as to form part of the transaction, is a relevant fact.
(b) A is accused of waging war against the 1[Government of India] by taking
part in an armed insurrection in which property is destroyed, troops are
attacked, and goals are broken open. The occurrence of these facts is
relevant, as forming part of the general transaction, though A may not have
been present at all of them.
(c) A sues B for a libel contained in a letter forming part of a
correspondence. Letters between the parties relating to the subject out of
which the libel arose, and forming part of the correspondence in which it is
contained, are relevant facts, though they do not contain the libel itself.
(d) The question is, whether certain goods ordered from B were delivered to A.
The goods were delivered to several intermediate persons successively. Each
delivery is a relevant fact.
7. Facts which are the occasion, cause or effect of facts in issue.—Facts which are the occasion, cause, or effect, immediate or otherwise, of relevant facts, or facts in issue, or which constitute the state of things under which they happened, or which afforded an opportunity for their occurrence or transaction, are relevant. Illustrations
(a) The question is, whether A robbed B. The facts that, shortly before the
robbery, B went to a fair with money in his possession, and that he showed it,
or mentioned the fact that he had it, to third persons, are relevant.
(b) The question is, whether A murdered B. Marks on the ground, produced by a
struggle at or near the place where the murder was committed, are relevant
facts.
(c) The question is, whether A poisoned B. The state of B’s health before the
symptoms ascribed to poison, and habits of B, known to A, which afforded an
opportunity for the administration of poison, are relevant facts.
8. Motive, preparation and previous or subsequent conduct.—Any fact is relevant which shows or constitutes a motive or preparation for any fact in issue or relevant fact. The conduct of any party, or of any agent to any party, to any suit or proceeding, in reference to such suit or proceeding, or in reference to any fact in issue therein or relevant thereto, and the conduct of any person an offence against whom is the subject of any proceeding, is relevant, if such conduct influences or is influenced by any fact in issue or relevant fact, and whether it was previous or subsequent thereto. Explanation 1.—The word “conduct” in this section does not include statements, unless those statements accompany and explain acts other than statements; but this explanation is not to affect the relevancy of statements under any other section of this Act. Explanation 2.—When the conduct of any person is relevant, any statement made to him or in his presence and hearing, which affects such conduct, is relevant. Illustrations
(a) A is tried for the murder of B. The facts that A murdered C, that B knew
that A had murdered C, and that B had tried to extort money from A by
threatening to make his knowledge public, are relevant.
(b) A sues B upon a bond for the payment of money. B denies the making of the
bond. The fact that, at the time when the bond was alleged to be made, B
required money for a particular purpose is relevant.
(c) A is tried for the murder of B by poison. The fact that, before the death
of B, A procured poison similar to that which was administered to B, is
relevant.
(d) The question is, whether a certain document is the Will of A. The facts
that, not long before the date of the alleged Will, A made inquiry into
matters to which the provisions of the alleged Will relate, that he consulted
vakils in reference to making the Will, and that he caused drafts or other
Wills to be prepared of which he did not approve, are relevant.
(e) A is accused of a crime. The facts that, either before or at the time of,
or after the alleged crime, A provided evidence which would tend to give to
the facts of the case an appearance favourable to himself, or that he
destroyed or concealed evidence, or prevented the presence or procured the
absence of persons who might have been witnesses, or suborned persons to give
false evidence respecting it, are relevant.
(f) The question is, whether A robbed B. The facts that, after B was robbed, C
said in A’s presence—"the police are coming to look for the man who robbed B”,
and that immediately afterwards A ran away, are relevant.
(g) The question is, whether A owes B rupees 10,000. The facts that A asked C
to lend him money, and that D said to C in A’s presence and hearing—“I advise
you not to trust A, for he owes B 10,000 Rupees”, and that A went away without
making any answer, are relevant facts.
(h) The question is, whether A committed a crime. The fact that A absconded
after receiving a letter warning him that inquiry was being made for the
criminal and the contents of the letter, are relevant.
(i) A is accused of a crime. The facts that, after the commission of the
alleged crime, he absconded, or was in possession of property or the proceeds
of property acquired by the crime, or attempted to conceal things which were
or might have been used in committing it, are relevant.
(j) The question is, whether A was ravished. The facts that, shortly after the
alleged rape, she made a complaint relating to the crime, the circumstances
under which, and the terms in which, the complaint was made, are relevant. The
fact that, without making a complaint, she said that she had been ravished is
not relevant as conduct under this section, though it may be relevant as a
dying declaration under section 32, clause (1), or as corroborative evidence
under section 157.
(k) The question is, whether A was robbed. The fact that, soon after the
alleged robbery, he made a complaint relating to the offence, the
circumstances under which, and the terms in which, the complaint was made, are
relevant. The fact that he said he had been robbed, without making any
complaint, is not relevant, as conduct under this section, though it may be
relevant as a dying declaration under section 32, clause (1), or as
corroborative evidence under section 157. COMMENTS Ground for rejection of
testimony of eye witness The conduct of an eye witness in non-disclosing the
incident to anybody for a number of days, is highly unnatural one and is
sufficient to reject his testimony; Ganpat Kondiba Chavan v. State of
Maharashtra, (1997) 2 Crimes 38 (Bom). It is well settled that the conduct of
a witness in not disclosing the incident to person(s) whom he must have met
after the incident is indicative of the fact that he had not seen the
accident; Ganpat Kondiba Chavan v. State of Maharashtra, (1997) 2 Crimes 38
(Bom). Role of motive in an offence If motive is proved, the case of
prosecution becomes more easier to connect accused to the alleged incident;
P.V. Narayana v. State of Andhra Pradesh, (1997) 2 Crimes 307 (AP). Normally
there is a motive behind every criminal act; Barikanoo v. State of Uttar
Pradesh, (1997) 1 Crimes 500 (All). When motive is not sine qua non Where the
ocular evidence is very clear and convincing and the role of the accused
person in the crime stands clearly established, establishment of motive is not
a sine qua non for proving the prosecution case; Yunis alias Kariya v. State
of Madhya Pradesh, AIR 2003 SC 539. It is well settled that where the direct
evidence regarding the assault is worthy of the credence and can be believed,
the question of motive becomes more or less academic. Sometimes the motive is
clear and can be proved and sometimes the motive is shrouded in the mystery
and it is very difficult to locate the same. If, however, the evidence of eye
witnesses is credit-worthy and is believed by the court which has placed
implicit reliance on them, the question whether there is any motive or not
becomes wholly irrelevant; Raja v. State, (1972) 2 Crimes 175. Motive is a
thing primarily known to the accused himself and it may not the possible for
the prosecution in each and every case to find out the real motive behind the
crime; Barikanoo v. State of Uttar Pradesh, (1997)1 Crimes 500 (All). It is
well established that where there is an eyewitness account regarding the
incident, the motive loses all its importance; Barikanoo v. State of Uttar
Pradesh, (1997) 1 Crimes 500 (All).
9 Facts necessary to explain or introduce relevant facts. —Facts necessary to
explain or introduce a fact in issue or relevant fact, or which support or
rebut an inference suggested by a fact in issue or relevant fact, or which
establish the identity of anything or person whose identity is relevant, or
fix the time or place at which any fact in issue or relevant fact happened, or
which show the relation of parties by whom any such fact was transacted, are
relevant in so far as they are necessary for that purpose. Illustrations
(a) The question is, whether a given document is the Will of A. The state of
A's property and of his family at the date of the alleged Will may be relevant
facts.
(b) A sues B for a libel imputing disgraceful conduct to A; B affirms that the
matter alleged to be libellous is true. The position and relations of the
parties at the time when the libel was published may be relevant facts as
introductory to the facts in issue. The particulars of a dispute between A and
B about a matter unconnected with the alleged libel are irrelevant, though the
fact that there was a dispute may be relevant if it affected the relations
between A and B.
(c) A is accused of a crime. The fact that, soon after the commission of the
crime, A absconded from his house, is relevant, under section 8, as conduct
subsequent to and affected by facts in issue. The fact that, at the time when
he left home, he had sudden and urgent business at the place to which he went,
is relevant, as tending to explain the fact that he left home suddenly. The
details of the business on which he left are not relevant, except in so far as
they are necessary to show that the business was sudden and urgent.
(d) A sues B for inducing C to break a contract of service made by him with
A.C ., on leaving A's service, says to A— "I am leaving you because B has made
me a better offer”. This statement is a relevant fact as explanatory of C's
conduct, which is relevant as a fact in issue.
(e) A, accused of theft, is seen to give the stolen property to B, who is seen
to give it to A's wife. B says, as he delivers it—" A says you are to hide
this”. B's statement is relevant as explanatory of a fact which is part of the
transaction.
(f) A is tried for a riot and is proved to have marched at the head of a mob.
The cries of the mob are relevant as explanatory of the nature of the
transaction.
10. Things said or done by conspirator in reference to common design.—Where there is reasonable ground to believe that two or more persons have conspired together to commit an offence or an actionable wrong, anything said, done or written by any one of such persons in reference to their common intention, after the time when such intention was first entertained by any one of them, is a relevant fact as against each of the persons believed to so conspiring, as well for the purpose of proving the existence of the conspiracy as for the purpose of showing that any such person was a party to it. Illustration Reasonable ground exists for believing that A has joined in a conspiracy to wage war against the 1[Government of India]. The facts that B procured arms in Europe for the purpose of the conspiracy, C collected money in Calcutta for a like object, D persuaded persons to join the conspiracy in Bombay, E published writings advocating the object in view at Agra, and F transmitted from Delhi to G at Kabul the money which C had collected at Calcutta, and the contents of a letter written by H giving an account of the conspiracy, are each relevant, both to prove the existence of the conspiracy, and to prove A’s complicity in it, although he may have been ignorant of all of them, and although the persons by whom they were done were strangers to him, and although they may have taken place before he joined the conspiracy or after he left it. Comments Existence of conspiracy If prima facie evidence of existence of a conspiracy is given and accepted, the evidence of acts and statements made by anyone of the conspirators in furtherance of the common object is admissible against all; Jayendra Saraswati Swamigal v. State of Tamil Nadu, AIR 2005 SC 716. Object Section 10 has been deliberately enacted in order to make acts and statements of a co-conspirator admissible against the whole body of conspirators, because of the nature of crime; Badri Rai v. State of Bihar, AIR 1958 SC 953. Significance of “common intention” The words “common intention” signify a common intention existing at the time when the thing was said, done or written by the one of them. It had noting to do with carrying the conspiracy into effect; Mirza Akbar v. Emperor, AIR 1940 PC 176.
11. When facts not otherwise relevant become relevant.—Facts not otherwise relevant are relevant—
(1) if they are inconsistent with any fact in issue or relevant fact;
(2) if by themselves or in connection with other facts they make the existence
or non-existence of any fact in issue or relevant fact highly probable or
improbable. Illustrations
(a) The question is, whether A committed a crime at Calcutta on a certain day.
The fact that, on that day, A was at Lahore is relevant. The fact that, near
the time when the crime was committed, A was at a distance from the place
where it was committed, which would render it highly improbable, though not
impossible, that he committed it, is relevant.
(b) The question is, whether A committed a crime. The circumstances are such
that the crime must have been committed either by A, B, C or D, every fact
which shows that the crime could have been committed by no one else and that
it was not committed by either B, C or D, is relevant.
12. In suits for damages, facts tending to enable Court to determine amount are relevant.—In suits in which damages are claimed, any fact which will enable the Court to determine the amount of damages which ought to be awarded, is relevant.
13. Facts relevant when right or custom is in question.—Where the question is as to the existence of any right or custom, the following facts are relevant:—
(a) any transaction by which the right or custom in question was created,
claimed, modified, recognized, asserted, or denied, or which was inconsistent
with its existence;
(b) particular instances in which the right or custom was claimed, recognized,
or exercised or in which its exercise was disputed, asserted or departed from.
Illustration The question is, whether A has a right to a fishery. A deed
conferring the fishery on A’s ancestors, a mortgage of the fishery by A’s
father, a subsequent grant of the fishery by A’s father, irreconcilable with
the mortgage, particular instances in which A’s father exercised the right, or
in which the exercise of the right was stopped by A’s neighbours, are relevant
facts.
14. Facts showing existence of state of mind, or of body or bodily feeling.—Facts showing the existence of any state of mind, such as intention, knowledge, good faith, negligence, rashness, ill-will or good-will towards any particular person, or showing the existence of any state of body or bodily feeling, are relevant, when the existence of any such state of mind or body or bodily feeling, is in issue or relevant. 1[Explanation 1.—A fact relevant as showing the existence of a relevant state of mind must show that the state of mind exists, not generally, but in reference to the particular matter in question.1[Explanation 1.—A fact relevant as showing the existence of a relevant state of mind must show that the state of mind exists, not generally, but in reference to the particular matter in question." Explanation 2.—But where, upon the trial of a person accused of an offence, the previous commission by the accused of an offence is relevant within the meaning of this section, the previous conviction of such person shall also be a relevant fact.] Illustrations
(a) A is accused of receiving stolen goods knowing them to be stolen. It is
proved that he was in possession of a particular stolen article. The fact
that, at the same time, he was in possession of many other stolen articles is
relevant, as tending to show that he knew each and all of the articles of
which he was in possession, to be stolen. 2[(b) A is accused of fraudulently
delivering to another person a counterfeit coin which, at the time when he
delivered it, he knew to be counterfeit. The fact that, at the time of its
delivery, A was possessed of a number of other pieces of counterfeit coin is
relevant. The fact that A had been previously convicted of delivering to
another person as genuine a counterfeit coin knowing it to be counterfeit is
relevant.]
(c) A sues B for damage done by a dog of B’s, which B knew to be ferocious.
The facts that the dog had previously bitten X, Y, and Z, and that they had
made complaints to B, are relevant.
(d) The question is, whether A, the acceptor of a bill of exchange, knew that
the name of the payee was fictitious. The fact that A had accepted other bills
drawn in the same manner before they could have been transmitted to him by the
payee if the payee had been a real person, is relevant, as showing that A knew
that the payee was a fictitious person.
(e) A is accused of defaming B by publishing an imputation intended to harm
the reputation of B. The fact of previous publications by A respecting B,
showing ill-will on the part of A towards B, is relevant, as proving A’s
intention to harm B’s reputation by the particular publication in question.
The facts that there was no previous quarrel between A and B, and that A
repeated the matter complained of as he heard it, are relevant, as showing
that A did not intend to harm the reputation of B.
(f) A is sued by B for fraudulently representing to B that C was solvent,
whereby B, being induced to trust C, who was insolvent, suffered loss. The
fact that, at the time when A represented C to be solvent, C was supposed to
be solvent by his neighbours and by persons dealing with him, is relevant, as
showing that A made the representation in good faith.
(g) A is sued by B for the price of work done by B, upon a house of which A is
owner, by the order of C, a contractor. A’s defence is that B’s contract was
with C. The fact that A paid C for the work in question is relevant, as
proving that A did, in good faith, make over to C the management of the work
in question, so that C was in a position to contract with B on C’s own
account, and not as agent for A.
(h) A is accused of the dishonest misappropriation of property which he had
found, and the question is whether, when he appropriated it, he believed in
good faith that the real owner could not be found. The fact that public notice
of the loss of the property had been given in the place where A was, is
relevant, as showing that A did not in good faith believe that the real owner
of the property could not be found. The fact that A knew, or had reason to
believe, that the notice was given fraudulently by C, who had heard of the
loss of the property and wished to set up a false claim to it, is relevant, as
showing that the fact that A knew of the notice did not disprove A’s good
faith.
(i) A is charged with shooting at B with intent to kill him. In order to show
A’s intent, the fact of A’s having previously shot at B may be proved.
(j) A is charged with sending threatening letters to B. Threatening letters
previously sent by A to B may be proved, as showing intention of the letters.
(k) The question is, whether A has been guilty of cruelty towards B, his wife.
Expressions of their feeling towards each other shortly before or after the
alleged cruelty, are relevant facts.
(l) The question is, whether A’s death was caused by poison. Statements made
by A during his illness as to his symptoms, are relevant facts.
(m) The question is, what was the state of A’s health at the time when an
assurance on his life was effected. Statements made by A as to the state of
his health at or near the time in question are relevant facts.
(n) A sues B for negligence in providing him with a carriage for hire not
reasonably fit for use, whereby A was injured. The fact that B’s attention was
drawn on other occasions to the defect of that particular carriage, is
relevant. The fact that B was habitually negligent about the carriages which
he let to hire, is irrelevant.
(o) A is tried for the murder of B by intentionally shooting him dead. The
fact that A, on other occasions shot at B is relevant, as showing his
intention to shoot B. The fact that A was in the habit of shooting at people
with intent to murder them, is irrelevant.
(p) A is tried for a crime. The fact that he said something indicating an
intention to commit that particular crime is relevant. The fact that he said
something indicating a general disposition to commit crimes of that class is
irrelevant.
15. Facts bearing on question whether act was accidental or intentional.—When there is a question whether an act was accidental or intentional, 1[or done with a particular knowledge or intention,] the fact that such act formed part of a series of similar occurrences, in each of which the person doing the act was concerned, is relevant.—When there is a question whether an act was accidental or intentional, 1[or done with a particular knowledge or intention,] the fact that such act formed part of a series of similar occurrences, in each of which the person doing the act was concerned, is relevant." Illustrations
(a) A is accused of burning down his house in order to obtain money for which
it is insured. The facts that A lived in several houses successively, each of
which he insured, in each of which a fire occurred, and after each of which
fires A received payment from a different insurance office, are relevant, as
tending to show that the fires were not accidental.
(b) A is employed to receive money from the debtors of B. It is A’s duty to
make entries in a book showing the amounts received by him. He makes an entry
showing that on a particular occasion he received less than he really did
receive. The question is, whether this false entry was accidental or
intentional. The facts that other entries made by A in the same book are
false, and that the false entry is in each case in favour of A, are relevant.
(c) A is accused of fraudulently delivering to B a counterfeit rupee. The
question is, whether the delivery of the rupee was accidental. The facts that,
soon before or soon after the delivery to B, A delivered counterfeit rupees to
C, D and E are relevant, as showing that the delivery to B, was not
accidental.
16. Existence of course of business when relevant.—When there is a question whether a particular act was done, the existence of any course of business, according to which it naturally would have been done, is a relevant fact. Illustrations
(a) The question is, whether a particular letter was despatched. The facts
that it was the ordinary course of business for all letters put in a certain
place to be carried to the post, and that particular letter was put in that
place, are relevant.
(b) The question is, whether a particular letter reached A. The facts that it
was posted in due course, and was not returned through the Dead Letter Office,
are relevant.
17. Admission defined.—An admission is a statement, 1[oral or documentary or contained in electronic form], which suggests any inference as to any fact in issue or relevant fact, and which is made by any of the persons, and under the circumstances, hereinafter mentioned. Comment s Admissibility is substantive evidence of the fact Admissibility is substantive evidence of the fact admitted while a previous statement used to contradict a witness does not become substantive evidence and merely serves the purpose of throwing doubt on the veracity of the witness; Bishwanath Prasad v. Dwarka Prasad, AIR 1974 SC 117.
18. Admission by party to proceeding or his agent.—Statements made by a party to the proceeding, or by an agent to any such party, whom the Court regards, under the circumstances of the case, as expressly or impliedly authorized by him to make them, are admissions. by suitor in representative character.—Statements made by parties to suits, suing or sued in a representative character, are not admissions, unless they were made while the party making them held that character. Statements made by—
(1) party interested in subject-matter.—persons who have any proprietary or
pecuniary interest in the subject-matter of the proceeding, and who make the
statement in their character of persons so interested, or
(2) person from whom interest derived.—persons from whom the parties to the
suit have derived their interest in the subject-matter of the suit, are
admissions, if they are made during the continuance of the interest of the
persons making the statements.
19. Admissions by persons whose position must be proved as against party to suit.—Statements made by persons whose position or liability, it is necessary to prove as against any party to the suit, are admissions, if such statements would be relevant as against such persons in relation to such position or liability in a suit brought by or against them, and if they are made whilst the person making them occupies such position or is subject to such liability. Illustration A undertakes to collect rents for B. B sues A for not collecting rent due from C to B. A denies that rent was due from C to B. A statement by C that he owed B rent is an admission, and is a relevant fact as against A, if A denies that C did owe rent to B.
20. Admissions by persons expressly referred to by party to suit.—Statements made by persons to whom a party to the suit has expressly referred for information in reference to a matter in dispute are admissions. Illustration The question is, whether a horse sold by A to B is sound. A says to B—"Go and ask C. C knows all about it”. C’s statement is an admission. COMMENTS In eviction suit where person having power of attorney for tenant admits arrears of rent tenant subsequently cannot resile from such admission; Ram Sahai v. Jai Prakash, AIR 1993 MP 147.
21. Proof of admissions against persons making them, and by or on their behalf.—Admissions are relevant and may be proved as against the person who makes them, or his representative in interest; but they cannot be proved by or on behalf of the person who makes them or by his representative in interest, except in the following cases:—
(1) An admission may be proved by or on behalf of the person making it, when
it is of such a nature that, if the person making it were dead, it would be
relevant as between third persons under section 32.
(2) An admission may be proved by or on behalf of the person making it, when
it consists of a statement of the existence of any state of mind or body,
relevant or in issue, made at or about the time when such state of mind or
body existed, and is accompanied by conduct rendering its falsehood
improbable.
(3) An admission may be proved by or on behalf of the person making it, if it
is relevant otherwise than as an admission. Illustrations
(a) The question between A and B is, whether a certain deed is or is not
forged, A affirms that it is genuine, B that it is forged. A may prove a
statement by B that the deed is genuine, and B may prove a statement by A that
the deed is forged; but A cannot prove a statement by himself that the deed is
genuine, nor can B prove a statement by himself that the deed is forged.
(b) A, the Captain of a ship, is tried for casting her away. Evidence is given
to show that the ship was taken out of her proper course. A produces a book
kept by him in the ordinary course of his business, showing observations
alleged to have been taken by him from day to day, and indicating that the
ship was not taken out of her proper course. A may prove these statements,
because they would be admissible between third parties, if he were dead, under
section 32, clause (2).
(c) A is accused of a crime committed by him at Calcutta. He produces a letter
written by himself and dated at Lahore on that day, and bearing the Lahore
post-mark of that day. The statement in the date of the letter is admissible,
because, if A were dead, it would be admissible under section 32, clause (2).
(d) A is accused of receiving stolen goods knowing them to be stolen. He
offers to prove that he refused to sell them below their value. A may prove
these statements, though they are admissions, because they are explanatory of
conduct influenced by facts in issue.
(e) A is accused of fraudulently having in his possession counterfeit coin
which he knew to be counterfeit. He offers to prove that he asked a skilful
person to examine the coin, as he doubted whether it was counterfeit or not,
and that the person did examine it and told him it was genuine. A may prove
these facts for the reasons stated in the last preceding illustration.
Comments Submission of a letter not containing anything either in favour or
against but simply a statement of original defendant, then such letter cannot
be taken as that of a substituted defendant, confronting with admissions;
Salil Kumar Roy v. Badu Den Bhansali, AIR 1999 Cal 270.
22. When oral admissions as to contents of documents are relevant.—Oral admissions as to the contents of a document are not relevant, unless and until the party proposing to prove them shows that he is entitled to give secondary evidence of the contents of such document under the rules hereinafter contained, or unless the genuineness of a document produced is in question.
1[22A. When oral admissions as to contents of electronic records are
relevant.—Oral admissions as to the contents of electronic records are not
relevant, unless the genuineness of the electronic record produced is in
question.]
23. Admissions in civil cases, when relevant.—In civil cases no admission is relevant, if it is made either upon an express condition that evidence of it is not to be given, or under circumstances from which the Court can infer that the parties agreed together that evidence of it should not be given. Explanation.—Nothing in this section shall be taken to exempt any barrister, pleader, attorney or vakil from giving evidence of any matter of which he may be compelled to give evidence under section 126.
24. Confession caused by inducement, threat or promise, when irrelevant in criminal proceeding.—A confession made by an accused person is irrelevant in a criminal proceeding, if the making of the confession appears to the Court to have been caused by any inducement, threat or promise,1 having reference to the charge against the accused person, proceeding from a person in authority and sufficient, in the opinion of the Court, to give the accused person grounds, which would appear to him reasonable, for supposing that by making it he would gain any advantage or avoid any evil of a temporal nature in reference to the proceedings against him.—A confession made by an accused person is irrelevant in a criminal proceeding, if the making of the confession appears to the Court to have been caused by any inducement, threat or promise,2 having reference to the charge against the accused person, proceeding from a person in authority and sufficient, in the opinion of the Court, to give the accused person grounds, which would appear to him reasonable, for supposing that by making it he would gain any advantage or avoid any evil of a temporal nature in reference to the proceedings against him."
25. Confession to police officer not to be proved.—No confession made to a police officer1, shall be proved as against a person accused of any offence.—No confession made to a police officer1, shall be proved as against a person accused of any offence."
26. Confession by accused while in custody of police not to be proved against him.—No confession made by any person whilst he is in the custody of a police officer, unless it be made in the immediate presence of a Magistrate1, shall be proved as against such person.—No confession made by any person whilst he is in the custody of a police officer, unless it be made in the immediate presence of a Magistrate2, shall be proved as against such person." 2[Explanation.—In this section “Magistrate” does not include the head of a village discharging magisterial functions in the Presidency of Fort St. George 3[***] or elsewhere, unless such headman is a Magistrate exercising the powers of a Magistrate under the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1882 (10 of 1882)4].
27. How much of information received from accused may be proved.—Provided that, when any fact is deposed to as discovered in consequence of information received from a person accused of any offence, in the custody of a police officer, so much of such information, whether it amounts to a confession or not, as relates distinctly to the fact thereby discovered, may be proved.
28. Confession made after removal of impression caused by inducement, threat or promise relevant.—If such a confession as is referred to in section 24 is made after the impression caused by any such inducement, threat or promise has, in the opinion of the Court, been fully removed, it is relevant.
29. Confession otherwise relevant not to become irrelevant because of promise of secrecy, etc.—If such a confession is otherwise relevant, it does not become irrelevant merely because it was made under a promise of secrecy, or in consequence of a deception practised on the accused person for the purpose of obtaining it, or when he was drunk, or because it was made in answer to questions which he need not have answered, whatever may have been the form of those questions, or because he was not warned that he was not bound to make such confession, and that evidence of it might be given against him.
30. Consideration of proved confession affecting person making it and others jointly under trial for same offence.—When more persons than one are being tried jointly for the same offence, and a confession made by one of such persons affecting himself and some other of such persons is proved, the Court may take into consideration such confession as against such other person as well as against the person who makes such confession. 1[Explanation.—“Offence”, as used in this section, includes the abetment of, or attempt to commit the offence.] Illustrations
(a) A and B are jointly tried for the murder of C. It is proved that A said—"B
and I murdered C”. The Court may consider the effect of this confession as
against B.
(b) A is on his trial for the murder of C. There is evidence to show that C
was murdered by A and B, and that B said—“A and I murdered C”. This statement
may not be taken into consideration by the Court against A, as B is not being
jointly tried. COMMENTS Accused's confession cannot be used against co-accused
The statement of the accused leading to the discovery, or the informatory
statement amounting to confession of the accused, cannot be used against the
co-accused with the aid of section 303; Kamal Kishore v. State (Delhi
Administration), (1972) 2 Crimes 169 (Del).
31. Admissions not conclusive proof, but may estop.—Admissions are not conclusive proof of the matters admitted, but they may operate as estoppels under the provisions hereinafter contained.
32 Cases in which statement of relevant fact by person who is dead or cannot
be found, etc ., is relevant. —Statements, written or verbal, of relevant
facts made by a person who is dead, or who cannot be found, or who has become
incapable of giving evidence, or whose attendance cannot be procured without
an amount of delay or expense which, under the circumstances of the case,
appears to the Court unreasonable, are themselves relevant facts in the
following cases:—
1 when it relates to cause of death. —When the statement is made by a person
as to the cause of his death, or as to any of the circumstances of the
transaction which resulted in his death, in cases in which the cause of that
person's death comes into question. Such statements are relevant whether the
person who made them was or was not, at the time when they were made, under
expectation of death, and whatever may be the nature of the proceeding in
which the cause of his death comes into question.
2 or is made in course of business. —When the statement was made by such
person in the ordinary course of business, and in particular when it consists
of any entry or memorandum made by him in books kept in the ordinary course of
business, or in the discharge of professional duty; or of an acknowledgment
written or signed by him of the receipt of money, goods, securities or
property of any kind; or of a document used in commerce written or signed by
him; or of the date of a letter or other document usually dated, written or
signed by him.
3 or against interest of maker. —When the statement is against the pecuniary
or proprietary interest of the person making it, or when, if true, it would
expose him or would have exposed him to a criminal prosecution or to a suit
for damages.
4 or gives opinion as to public right or custom, or matters of general
interest. —When the statement gives the opinion of any such person, as to the
existence of any public right or custom or matter of public or general
interest, of the existence of which, if it existed he would have been likely
to be aware, and when such statement was made before any controversy as to
such right, custom or matter had arisen.
5 or relates to existence of relationship. —When the statement relates to the
existence of any relationship 25 [by blood, marriage or adoption] between
persons as to whose relationship 25 [by blood, marriage or adoption] the
person making the statement had special means of knowledge, and when the
statement was made before the question in dispute was raised.
6 or is made in will or deed relating to family affairs. —When the statement
relates to the existence of any relationship 25 [by blood, marriage or
adoption] between persons deceased, and is made in any will or deed relating
to the affairs of the family to which any such deceased person belonged, or in
any family pedigree, or upon any tombstone, family portrait, or other thing on
which such statements are usually made, and when such statement was made
before the question in dispute was raised.
7 or in document relating to transaction mentioned in section 13, clause (a).
—When the statement is contained in any deed, will or other document which
relates to any such transaction as is mentioned in section 13, clause (a).
8 or is made by several persons, and expresses feelings relevant to matter in
question. —When the statement was made by a number of persons, and expressed
feelings or impressions on their part relevant to the matter in question.
Illustrations
(a) The question is, whether A was murdered by B; or A dies of injuries
received in a transaction in the course of which she was ravished. The
question is, whether she was ravished by B; or The question is, whether A was
killed by B under such circumstances that a suit would lie against B by A's
widow. Statements made by A as to the cause of his or her death, referring
respectively to the murder, the rape, and the actionable wrong under
consideration, are relevant facts.
(b) The question is as to the date of A's birth. An entry in the diary of a
deceased surgeon, regularly kept in the course of business, stating that, on a
given day he attended A's mother and delivered her of a son, is a relevant
fact.
(c) The question is, whether A was in Calcutta on a given day. A statement in
the diary of a deceased solicitor, regularly kept in the course of business,
that, on a given day, the solicitor attended A at a place mentioned, in
Calcutta, for the purpose of conferring with him upon specified business, is a
relevant fact.
(d) The question is, whether a ship sailed from Bombay harbour on a given day.
A letter written by a deceased member of a merchant's firm, by which she was
chartered, to their correspondents in London to whom the cargo was consigned,
stating that the ship sailed on a given day from Bombay harbour, is a relevant
fact.
(e) The question is, whether rent was paid to A for certain land. A letter
from A's deceased agent to A, saying that he had received the rent on A's
account and held it at A's orders, is a relevant fact.
(f) The question is, whether A and B were legally married. The statement of a
deceased clergyman that he married them under such circumstances that the
celebration would be a crime, is relevant.
(g) The question is, whether A, a person who cannot be found, wrote a letter
on a certain day. The fact that a letter written by him is dated on that day,
is relevant.
(h) The question is, what was the cause of the wreck of a ship. A protest made
by the Captain, whose attendance cannot be procured, is a relevant fact.
(i) The question is, whether a given road is a public way. A statement by A, a
deceased headman of the village, that the road was public, is a relevant fact.
(j) The question is, what was the price of grain on a certain day in a
particular market. A statement of the price, made by a deceased banya in the
ordinary course of his business is a relevant fact.
(k) The question is, whether A, who is dead, was the father of B. A statement
by A that B was his son, is a relevant fact.
(l) The question is, what was the date of the birth of A. A letter from A's
deceased father to a friend, announcing the birth of A on a given day, is a
relevant fact.
(m) The question is, whether, and when, A and B were married. An entry in a
memorandum-book by C, the deceased father of B, of his daughter's marriage
with A on a given date, is a relevant fact.
(n) A sues B for a libel expressed in a painted caricature exposed in a shop
window. The question is as to the similarity of the caricature and its
libellous character. The remarks of a crowd of spectators on these points may
be proved.
33. Relevancy of certain evidence for proving, in subsequent proceeding, the truth of facts therein stated.—Evidence given by a witness in a judicial proceeding, or before any person authorized by law to take it, is relevant for the purpose of proving, in a subsequent judicial proceeding, or in a later stage of the same judicial proceeding, the truth of the facts which it states, when the witness is dead or cannot be found, or is incapable of giving evidence, or is kept out of the way by the adverse party, or if his presence cannot be obtained without an amount of delay or expense which, under the circumstances of the case, the Court considers unreasonable: Provided— that the proceeding was between the same parties or their representatives in interest; that the adverse party in the first proceeding had the right and opportunity to cross-examine; that the questions in issue were substantially the same in the first as in the second proceeding. Explanation.—A criminal trial or inquiry shall be deemed to be a proceeding between the prosecutor and the accused within the meaning of this section.
34. 1[Entries in books of account including those maintained in an electronic form] when relevant.—1[Entries in books of accounts including those maintained in an electronic form], regularly kept in the course of business, are relevant whenever they refer to a matter into which the Court has to inquire, but such statements shall not alone be sufficient evidence to charge any person with liability. Illustration A sues B for Rs. 1,000, and shows entries in his account-books showing B to be indebted to him to this amount. The entries are relevant, but are not sufficient, without other evidence, to prove the debt. COMMENTS Admissibility Entries in account books regularly kept in the course of business are admissible though they by themselves cannot create any liability; Ishwar Dass v. Sohan Lal, AIR 2000 SC 426. Unbound sheets of paper are not books of account and cannot be relied upon; Dharam Chand Joshi v. Satya Narayan Bazaz, AIR 1993 Gau 35. Books of account being only corroborative evidence must be supported by other evidence; Dharam Chand Joshi v. Satya Narayan Bazaz, AIR 1993 Gau 35.
35. Relevancy of entry in public 1[record or an electronic record] made in performance of duty.—An entry in any public or other official book, register or 1[record or an electronic record], stating a fact in issue or relevant fact, and made by a public servant in the discharge of his official duty, or by any other person in performance of a duty specially enjoined by the law of the country in which such book, register, or 1[record or an electronic record] is kept, is itself a relevant fact.
36. Relevancy of statements in maps, charts and plans.—Statements of facts in issue or relevant facts, made in published maps or charts generally offered for public sale, or in maps or plans made under the authority of 1[the Central Government or any State Government], as to matters usually represented or stated in such maps, charts or plans, are themselves relevant facts.—Statements of facts in issue or relevant facts, made in published maps or charts generally offered for public sale, or in maps or plans made under the authority of 2[the Central Government or any State Government], as to matters usually represented or stated in such maps, charts or plans, are themselves relevant facts."
37. Relevancy of statement as to fact of public nature, contained in certain Acts or notifications.—When the Court has to form an opinion as to the existence of any fact of a public nature, any statement of it, made in a recital contained in any Act of Parliament 1[of the United Kingdom], or in any 2[Central Act, Provincial Act, or 3[a State Act], or in a Government notification or notification by the Crown Representative appearing in the Official Gazette or in any printed paper purporting to be the London Gazette or the Government Gazette of any Dominion, colony or possession of His Majesty is a relevant fact.]—When the Court has to form an opinion as to the existence of any fact of a public nature, any statement of it, made in a recital contained in any Act of Parliament 3[of the United Kingdom], or in any 4[Central Act, Provincial Act, or 5[a State Act], or in a Government notification or notification by the Crown Representative appearing in the Official Gazette or in any printed paper purporting to be the London Gazette or the Government Gazette of any Dominion, colony or possession of His Majesty is a relevant fact.]" 4[***]
38. Relevancy of statements as to any law contained in law-books.—When the Court has to form an opinion as to a law of any country, any statement of such law contained in a book purporting to be printed or published under the authority of the Government of such country and to contain any such law, and any report of a ruling of the Courts of such country contained in a book purporting to be a report of such rulings, is relevant.
1[39. What evidence to be given when statement forms part of a conversation,
document, electronic record, book or series of letters or papers.—When any
statement of which evidence is given forms part of a longer statement, or of a
conversation or part of an isolated document, or is contained in a document
which forms part of a book, or is contained in part of electronic record or of
a connected series of letters or papers, evidence shall be given of so much
and no more of the statement, conversation, document, electronic record, book
or series of letters or papers as the Court considers necessary in that
particular case to the full understanding of the nature and effect of the
statement, and of the circumstances under which it was made.]2[39. What
evidence to be given when statement forms part of a conversation, document,
electronic record, book or series of letters or papers.—When any statement of
which evidence is given forms part of a longer statement, or of a conversation
or part of an isolated document, or is contained in a document which forms
part of a book, or is contained in part of electronic record or of a connected
series of letters or papers, evidence shall be given of so much and no more of
the statement, conversation, document, electronic record, book or series of
letters or papers as the Court considers necessary in that particular case to
the full understanding of the nature and effect of the statement, and of the
circumstances under which it was made.]"
40. Previous judgments relevant to bar a second suit or trial.—The existence of any judgment, order or decree which by law prevents any Courts from taking cognizance of a suit or holding a trial is a relevant fact when the question is whether such Court ought to take cognizance of such suit, or to hold such trial.
41. Relevancy of certain judgments in probate, etc., jurisdiction.—A final judgment, order or decree of a competent Court, in the exercise of probate, matrimonial admiralty or insolvency jurisdiction which confers upon or takes away from any person any legal character, or which declares any person to be entitled to any such character, or to be entitled to any specific thing, not as against any specified person but absolutely, is relevant when the existence of any such legal character, or the title of any such person to any such thing, is relevant. Such judgment, order or decree is conclusive proof— that any legal character, which it confers accrued at the time when such judgment, order or decree came into operation; that any legal character, to which it declares any such person to be entitled, accrued to that person at the time when such judgment, 1[order or decree] declares it to have accrued to that person; 3[order or decree] declares it to have accrued to that person;" that any legal character which it takes away from any such person ceased at the time from which such judgment, 1[order or decree] declared that it had ceased or should cease; 3[order or decree] declared that it had ceased or should cease;" and that anything to which it declares any person to be so entitled was the property of that person at the time from which such judgment, 1[order or decree] declares that it had been or should be his property. 3[order or decree] declares that it had been or should be his property."
42. Relevancy and effect of judgments, orders or decrees, other than those mentioned in section 41.—Judgments, orders or decrees other than those mentioned in section 41, are relevant if they relate to matters of a public nature relevant to the enquiry; but such judgments, orders or decrees are not conclusive proof of that which they state. Illustration A sues B for trespass on his land. B alleges the existence of a public right of way over the land, which A denies. The existence of a decree in favour of the defendant, in a suit by A against C for a trespass on the same land in which C alleged the existence of the same right of way, is relevant, but it is not conclusive proof that the right of way exists.
43. Judgments, etc., other than those mentioned in sections 40 to 42, when relevant.—Judgments, orders or decrees, other than those mentioned in sections 40, 41 and 42, are irrelevant, unless the existence of such judgment, order or decree, is a fact in issue, or is relevant under some other provisions of this Act. Illustrations
(a) A and B separately sue C for a libel which reflects upon each of them. C
in each case says, that the matter alleged to be libellous is true, and the
circumstances are such that it is probably true in each case, or in neither. A
obtains a decree against C for damages on the ground that C failed to make out
his justification. The fact is irrelevant as between B and C.
(b) A prosecutes B for adultery with C, A's wife. B denies that C is A's wife,
but the court convicts B of adultery. Afterwards, C is prosecuted for bigamy
in marrying B during A's lifetime. C says that she never was A's wife. The
judgment against B is irrelevant as against C.
(c) A prosecutes B for stealing a cow from him, B, is convicted. A afterwards
sues C for the cow, which B had sold to him before his conviction. As between
A and C, the judgment against B is irrelevant.
(d) A has obtained a decree for the possession of land against B, C, B's son,
murders A in consequence. The existence of the judgment is relevant, as
showing motive for a crime. 1[(e) A is charged with theft and with having been
previously convicted of theft. The previous conviction is relevant as a fact
in issue.
(f) A is tried for the murder of B. The fact that B prosecuted A for libel and
that A was convicted and sentenced is relevant under section 8 as showing the
motive for the fact in issue.] -----------------------
(1) Ins. by Act 3 of 1891, sec. 5.
44. Fraud or collusion in obtaining judgment, or incompetency of Court, may be proved.—Any party to a suit or other proceeding may show that any judgment, order or decree which is relevant under section 40, 41 or 42 and which has been proved by the adverse party, was delivered by a Court not competent to deliver it, or was obtained by fraud or collusion.
45. Opinions of experts.—When the Court has to form an opinion upon a point of foreign law or of science or art, or as to identity of handwriting 35 [or finger impressions], the opinions upon that point of persons specially skilled in such foreign law, science or art, 36 [or in questions as to identity of handwriting] 35 [or finger impressions] are relevant facts. Such persons are called experts. Illustrations
(a) The question is, whether the death of A was caused by poison. The opinions
of experts as to the symptoms produced by the poison by which A is supposed to
have died are relevant.
(b) The question is, whether A, at the time of doing a certain act, was, by
reason of unsoundness of mind, incapable of knowing the nature of the Act, or
that he was doing what was either wrong or contrary to law. The opinions of
experts upon the question whether the symptoms exhibited by A commonly show
unsoundness of mind, and whether such unsoundness of mind usually renders
persons incapable of knowing the nature of the acts which they do, or of
knowing that what they do is either wrong or contrary to law, are relevant.
(c) The question is, whether a certain document was written by A. Another
document is produced which is proved or admitted to have been written by A.
The opinions of experts on the question whether the two documents were written
by the same person or by different persons, are relevant. Comments Conflict of
opinion of Experts When there is a conflict of opinion between the experts,
then the Court is competent to form its own opinion with regard to signatures
on a document; Kishan Chand v. Sita Ram, AIR 2005 P&H; 156\. Expert opinion
admissibility Requirement of expert evidence about test firing to find out
whether double barrel gun is in working condition or not, not necessary;
Jarnail Singh v. State of Punjab, AIR 1999 SC 321. The evidence of a doctor
conducting post mortem without producing any authority in support of his
opinion is insufficient to grant conviction to an accused; Mohd Zahid v. State
of Tamil Nadu, 1999 Cr LJ 3699 (SC). Opinion to be received with great caution
The opinion of a handwriting expert given in evidence is no less fallible than
any other expert opinion adduced in evidence with the result that such
evidence has to be received with great caution; Ram Narain v. State of Uttar
Pradesh, AIR 1973 SC 2200.
37 [ 45A Opinion of Examiner of Electronic Evidence. —When in a proceeding,
the court has to form an opinion on any matter relating to any information
transmitted or stored in any computer resource or any other electronic or
digital form, the opinion of the Examiner of Electronic Evidence referred to
in section 79A of the Information Technology Act, 2000 (21 of 2000) is a
relevant fact. Explanation .—For the purposes of this section, an Examiner of
Electronic Evidence shall be an expert;] Illustrations
(a) The question is, whether the death of A was caused by poison. The opinions
of experts as to the symptoms produced by the poison by which A is supposed to
have died are relevant.
(b) The question is, whether A, at the time of doing a certain act, was, by
reason of unsoundness of mind, incapable of knowing the nature of the Act, or
that he was doing what was either wrong or contrary to law. The opinions of
experts upon the question whether the symptoms exhibited by A commonly show
unsoundness of mind, and whether such unsoundness of mind usually renders
persons incapable of knowing the nature of the acts which they do, or of
knowing that what they do is either wrong or contrary to law, are relevant.
(c) The question is, whether a certain document was written by A. Another
document is produced which is proved or admitted to have been written by A.
The opinions of experts on the question whether the two documents were written
by the same person or by different persons, are relevant.
46. Facts bearing upon opinions of experts.—Facts not otherwise relevant, are relevant if they support or are inconsistent with the opinions of experts, when such opinions are relevant. Illustrations
(a) The question is, whether A was poisoned by a certain poison. The fact that
other persons, who were poisoned by that person, exhibited certain symptoms
which experts affirm or deny to be the symptoms of that poison, is relevant.
(b) The question is, whether an obstruction to a harbour is caused by a
certain sea-wall. The fact that other harbours similarly situated in other
respects, but where there were no such sea-walls, began to be obstructed at
about the same time, is relevant. COMMENTS tc "COMMENTS" Admissibility The
science of identification of footprints is not a fully developed science and
therefore if in a given case, evidence relating to the same is found
satisfactory it may be used only to reinforce the conclusions as to the
identity of a culprit already arrived at on the basis of other evidence; Mohd.
Aman v. State of Rajasthan, (1997) 4 Supreme 635.
47. Opinion as to handwriting, when relevant.—When the Court has to form an opinion as to the person by whom any document was written or signed, the opinion of any person acquainted with the handwriting of the person by whom it is supposed to be written or signed that it was or was not written or signed by that person, is a relevant fact. Explanation.—A person is said to be acquainted with the handwriting of another person when he has seen that person write, or when he has received documents purporting to be written by that person in answer to documents written by himself or under his authority and addressed to that person, or when, in the ordinary course of business, documents purporting to be written by that person have been habitually submitted to him. Illustration The question is, whether a given letter is in the underwriting of A, a merchant in London. B is a merchant in Calcutta, who has written letters addressed to A and received letters purporting to be written by him. C is B's clerk, whose duty it was to examine and file B's correspondence. D is B's broker, to whom B habitually submitted the letters purporting to be written by A for the purpose of advising him thereon. The opinions of B, C and D on the question whether the letter is in the handwriting of A are relevant, though neither B, C nor D ever saw A write.
38 [ 47A Opinion as to 38 [electronic signature] when relevant .—When the
Court has to form an opinion as to the 39 [electronic signature] of any
person, the opinion of the Certifying Authority which has issued the 40
[Electronic Signature Certificate] is a relevant fact.]
48. Opinion as to existence of right or custom, when relevant.—When the Court has to form an opinion as to the existence of any general custom or right, the opinions, as to the existence of such custom or right, of persons who would be likely to know of its existence if it existed, are relevant. Explanation.—The expression “general custom or right” includes customs or rights common to any considerable class of persons. Illustration The right of the villagers of a particular village to use the water of a particular well is a general right within the meaning of this section.
49. Opinions as to usages, tenets, etc., when relevant.—When the Court has to form an opinion as to— the usages and tenets of any body of men or family, the constitution and government of any religious or charitable foundation, or the meaning of words or terms used in particular districts or by particular classes of people, the opinions of persons having special means of knowledge thereon, are relevant facts.
50. Opinion on relationship, when relevant.—When the Court has to form an opinion as to the relationship of one person to another, the opinion, expressed by conduct, as to the existence of such relationship, or any person who, as a member of the family or otherwise, has special means of knowledge on the subject, is a relevant fact: Provided that such opinion shall not be sufficient to prove a marriage in proceedings under the Indian Divorce Act, 1869 (4 of 1869) or in prosecutions under section 494, 495, 497 or 498 of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860). Illustrations
(a) The question is, whether A and B were married. The fact that they were
usually received and treated by their friends as husband and wife, is
relevant.
(b) The question is, whether A was the legitimate son of B. The fact that A
was always treated as such by members of the family, is relevant. Comments
Contradiction in evidence of relationship of witness of triffle nature, not
material in a partition suit; Gowhari Das v. Santilata Singh, AIR 1999 Ori 61.
51. Grounds of opinion, when relevant.—Whenever the opinion of any living person is relevant, the grounds on which such opinion is based are also relevant. Illustration An expert may give an account of experiments performed by him for the purpose of forming his opinion.
52. In civil cases character to prove conduct imputed, irrelevant.—In civil cases, the fact that the character of any person concerned is such as to render probable or improbable any conduct imputed to him, is irrelevant, except in so far as such character appears from facts otherwise relevant.
53. In criminal cases, previous good character relevant.—In criminal proceedings, the fact that the person accused is of a good character, is relevant.
1[54. Previous bad character not relevant, except in reply.—In criminal
proceedings the fact that the accused person has a bad character is
irrelevant, unless evidence has been given that he has a good character, in
which case it becomes relevant. Explanation 1.—This section does not apply to
cases in which the bad character of any person is itself a fact in issue.
Explanation 2.—A previous conviction is relevant as evidence of bad
character.]
55. Character as affecting damages.—In civil cases, the fact that the character of any person is such as to affect the amount of damages which he ought to receive, is relevant. Explanation.—In sections 52, 53, 54 and 55, the word “character” includes both reputation and disposition; but 1[except as provided in section 54], evidence may be given only of general reputation and general disposition, and not of particular acts by which reputation or disposition were shown.In sections 52, 53, 54 and 55, the word “character” includes both reputation and disposition; but 2[except as provided in section 54], evidence may be given only of general reputation and general disposition, and not of particular acts by which reputation or disposition were shown."
56. Fact judicially noticeable need not be proved.—No fact of which the Court will take judicial notice need to be proved.
57. Facts of which Court must take judicial notice.—The Court shall take judicial notice of the following facts:— 1[
(1) All laws in force in the territory of India;]
(2) All public Acts passed or hereafter to be passed by Parliament 2[of the
United Kingdom], and all local and personal Acts directed by Parliament 2[of
the United Kingdom] to be judicially noticed;
(3) Articles of War for 3[the Indian] Army, 4[Navy or Air Force]; 5[(4) The
course of proceeding of Parliament of the United Kingdom, of the Constituent
Assembly of India, of Parliament and of the legislatures established under any
law for the time being in force in a Province or in the State;]
(5) The accession and the sign manual of the Sovereign for the time being of
the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland;
(6) All seals of which English Courts take judicial notice: the seals of all
the 6[Courts in 7[India]], and all Courts out of 5[India] established by the
authority of 8[the Central Government or the Crown Representative]: the seals
of Courts of Admiralty and Maritime Jurisdiction and of Notaries Public, and
all seals which any person is authorized to use by 9[the Constitution or an
Act of Parliament of the United Kingdom or an] Act or Regulation having the
force of law in 7[India];
(7) The accession to office, names, titles, functions, and signatures of the
persons filling for the time being any public office in any State, if the fact
of their appointment to such office is notified in 10[any Official Gazette];
(8) The existence, title and national flag of every State or Sovereign
recognized by 11[the Government of India];
(9) The divisions of time, the geographical divisions of the world, and public
festivals, fasts and holidays notified in the Official Gazette;
(10) The territories under the dominion of 11[the Government of India];
(11) The commencement, continuance, and termination of hostilities between
11[the Government of India] and any other State or body of persons;
(12) The names of the members and officers of the Court and of their deputies
and subordinate officers and assistants, and also of all officers acting in
execution of its process, and of all advocates, attorneys, proctors, vakils,
pleaders and other persons authorized by law to appear or act before it;
(13) The rule of the road, 12[on land or at sea]. In all these cases, and also
on all matters of public history, literature, science or art, the Court may
resort for its aid to appropriate books or documents of reference. If the
Court is called upon by any person to take judicial notice of any fact, it may
refuse to do so, unless and until such person produces any such book or
document as it may consider necessary to enable it to do so.
58 Facts admitted need not be proved. —No fact need to be proved in any
proceeding which the parties thereto or their agents agree to admit at the
hearing, or which, before the hearing, they agree to admit by any writing
under their hands, or which by any rule of pleading in force at the time they
are deemed to have admitted by their pleadings: Provided that the Court may,
in its discretion, require the facts admitted to be proved otherwise than by
such admissions.
59. Proof of facts by oral evidence.—All facts, except the 1[contents of documents or electronic records], may be proved by oral evidence.—All facts, except the 1[contents of documents or electronic records], may be proved by oral evidence."
60. Oral evidence must be direct.—Oral evidence must, in all cases whatever, be direct; that is to say— If it refers to a fact which could be seen, it must be the evidence of a witness who says he saw it; If it refers to a fact which could be heard, it must be the evidence of a witness who says he heard it; If it refers to a fact which could be perceived by any other sense or in any other manner, it must be the evidence of a witness who says he perceived it by that sense or in that manner; If it refers to an opinion or to the grounds on which that opinion is held, it must be the evidence of the person who holds that opinion on those grounds: Provided that the opinions of experts expressed in any treatise commonly offered for sale, and the grounds on which such opinions are held, may be proved by the production of such treatises if the author is dead or cannot be found, or has become incapable of giving evidence, or cannot be called as a witness without an amount of delay or expense which the Court regards as unreasonable: Provided also that, if oral evidence refers to the existence or condition of any material thing other than a document, the Court may, if it thinks fit, require the production of such material thing for its inspection.
61. Proof of contents of documents.—The contents of documents may be proved either by primary or by secondary evidence.
62. Primary evidence.—Primary evidence means the document itself produced for the inspection of the Court. Explanation 1.—Where a document is executed in several parts, each part is primary evidence of the document; Where a document is executed in counterpart, each counterpart being executed by one or some of the parties only, each counterpart is primary evidence as against the parties executing it. Explanation 2.—Where a number of documents are all made by one uniform process, as in the case of printing, lithography, or photography, each is primary evidence of the contents of the rest; but, where they are all copies of a common original, they are not primary evidence of the contents of the original. Illustration A person is shown to have been in possession of a number of placards, all printed at one time from one original. Any one of the placards is primary evidence of the contents of any other, but no one of them is primary evidence of the contents of the original.
63. Secondary evidence.—Secondary evidence means and includes—
(1) Certified copies given under the provisions hereinafter contained1;1;"
(2) Copies made from the original by mechanical processes which in themselves
insure the accuracy of the copy, and copies compared with such copies;
(3) Copies made from or compared with the original;
(4) Counterparts of documents as against the parties who did not execute them;
(5) Oral accounts of the contents of a document given by some person who has
himself seen it. Illustrations
(a) A photograph of an original is secondary evidence of its contents, though
the two have not been compared, if it is proved that the thing photographed
was the original.
(b) A copy compared with a copy of a letter made by a copying machine is
secondary evidence of the contents of the letter, if it is shown that the copy
made by the copying machine was made from the original.
(c) A copy transcribed from a copy, but afterwards compared with the original,
is secondary evidence; but the copy not so compared is not secondary evidence
of the original, although the copy from which it was transcribed was compared
with the original.
(d) Neither an oral account of a copy compared with the original, nor an oral
account of a photograph or machine-copy of the original, is secondary evidence
of the original. COMMENTS Admissibility Application moved for permission to
lead secondary evidence based on ground of loss of document. Presence of
document proved from the facts pleaded - Allowing secondary evidence not
illegal; Sobha Rani v. Ravikumar, AIR 1999 P&H; 21\. Tape-recorded statements
are admissible in evidence; K.S. Mohan v. Sandhya Mohan, AIR 1993 Mad 59.
Certified copies of money lender’s licences are admissible in evidence; K.
Shivalingaiah v. B.V. Chandrashekara Gowda, AIR 1993 Kant 29.
64. Proof of documents by primary evidence.—Documents must be proved by primary evidence except in the cases hereinafter mentioned.
65. Cases in which secondary evidence relating to documents may be given.—Secondary evidence may be given of the existence, condition, or contents of a document in the following cases:—
(a) When the original is shown or appears to be in the possession or power— of
the person against whom the document is sought to be proved, or of any person
out of reach of, or not subject to, the process of the Court, or of any person
legally bound to produce it, and when, after the notice mentioned in section
66, such person does not produce it;
(b) when the existence, condition or contents of the original have been proved
to be admitted in writing by the person against whom it is proved or by his
representative in interest;
(c) when the original has been destroyed or lost, or when the party offering
evidence of its contents cannot, for any other reason not arising from his own
default or neglect, produce it in reasonable time;
(d) when the original is of such a nature as not to be easily movable;
(e) when the original is a public document within the meaning of section 74;
(f) when the original is a document of which a certified copy is permitted by
this Act, or by any other law in force in 1[India] to be given in evidence2;
1[India] to be given in evidence2;"
(g) when the originals consists of numerous accounts or other documents which
cannot conveniently be examined in Court, and the fact to be proved is the
general result of the whole collection. In cases (a), (c) and (d), any
secondary evidence of the contents of the document is admissible. In case (b),
the written admission is admissible. In case (e) or (f), a certified copy of
the document, but no other kind of secondary evidence, is admissible. In case
(g), evidence may be given as to the general result of the documents by any
person who has examined them, and who is skilled in the examination of such
documents.
1[65A. Special provisions as to evidence relating to electronic record.—The
contents of electronic records may be proved in accordance with the provisions
of section 65B.]
1[65B. Admissibility of electronic records.—
(1) Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, any information contained
in an electronic record which is printed on a paper, stored, recorded or
copied in optical or magnetic media produced by a computer (hereinafter
referred to as the computer output) shall be deemed to be also a document, if
the conditions mentioned in this section are satisfied in relation to the
information and computer in question and shall be admissible in any
proceedings, without further proof or production of the original, as evidence
of any contents of the original or of any fact stated therein of which direct
evidence would be admissible.
(2) The conditions referred to in sub-section (1) in respect of a computer
output shall be the following, namely:—
(a) the computer output containing the information was produced by the
computer during the period over which the computer was used regularly to store
or process information for the purposes of any activities regularly carried on
over that period by the person having lawful control over the use of the
computer;
(b) during the said period, information of the kind contained in the
electronic record or of the kind from which the information so contained is
derived was regularly fed into the computer in the ordinary course of the said
activities;
(c) throughout the material part of the said period, the computer was
operating properly or, if not, then in respect of any period in which it was
not operating properly or was out of operation during that part of the period,
was not such as to affect the electronic record or the accuracy of its
contents; and
(d) the information contained in the electronic record reproduces or is
derived from such information fed into the computer in the ordinary course of
the said activities.
(3) Where over any period, the function of storing or processing information
for the purposes of any activities regularly carried on over that period as
mentioned in clause (a) of sub-section (2) was regularly performed by
computers, whether—
(a) by a combination of computers operating over that period; or
(b) by different computers operating in succession over that period; or
(c) by different combinations of computers operating in succession over that
period; or
(d) in any other manner involving the successive operation over that period,
in whatever order, of one or more computers and one or more combinations of
computers, all the computers used for that purpose during that period shall be
treated for the purposes of this section as constituting a single computer;
and references in this section to a computer shall be construed accordingly.
(4) In any proceedings where it is desired to give a statement in evidence by
virtue of this section, a certificate doing any of the following things, that
is to say,—
(a) identifying the electronic record containing the statement and describing
the manner in which it was produced;
(b) giving such particulars of any device involved in the production of that
electronic record as may be appropriate for the purpose of showing that the
electronic record was produced by a computer;
(c) dealing with any of the matters to which the conditions mentioned in sub-
section (2) relate, and purporting to be signed by a person occupying a
responsible official position in relation to the operation of the relevant
device or the management of the relevant activities (whichever is appropriate)
shall be evidence of any matter stated in the certificate; and for the
purposes of this sub-section it shall be sufficient for a matter to be stated
to the best of the knowledge and belief of the person stating it.
(5) For the purposes of this section,—
(a) infomation shall be taken to be supplied to a computer if it is supplied
thereto in any appropriate form and whether it is so supplied directly or
(with or without human intervention) by means of any appropriate equipment;
(b) whether in the course of activities carried on by any official information
is supplied with a view to its being stored or processed for the purposes of
those activities by a computer operated otherwise than in the course of those
activities, that information, if duly supplied to that computer, shall be
taken to be supplied to it in the course of those activities;
(c) a computer output shall be taken to have been produced by a computer
whether it was produced by it directly or (with or without human intervention)
by means of any appropriate equipment. Explanation.—For the purposes of this
section any reference to information being derived from other information
shall be a reference to its being derived therefrom by calculation, comparison
or any other process.]
66. Rules as to notice to produce.—Secondary evidence of the contents of the documents referred to in section 65, clause
(a) , shall not be given unless the party proposing to give such secondary
evidence has previously given to the party in whose possession or power the
document is, 1[or to his attorney or pleader,] such notice to produce it as is
prescribed by law; and if no notice is prescribed by law, then such notice as
the Court considers reasonable under the circumstances of the case:—Secondary
evidence of the contents of the documents referred to in section 65, clause
(a), shall not be given unless the party proposing to give such secondary
evidence has previously given to the party in whose possession or power the
document is, 1[or to his attorney or pleader,] such notice to produce it as is
prescribed by law; and if no notice is prescribed by law, then such notice as
the Court considers reasonable under the circumstances of the case\:" Provided
that such notice shall not be required in order to render secondary evidence
admissible in any of the following cases, or in any other case in which the
Court thinks fit to dispense with it:—
(1) when the document to be proved is itself a notice;
(2) when, from the nature of the case, the adverse party must know that he
will be required to produce it;
(3) when it appears or is proved that the adverse party has obtained
possession of the original by fraud or force;
(4) when the adverse party or his agent has the original in Court;
(5) when the adverse party or his agent has admitted the loss of the document;
(6) when the person in possession of the document is out of reach of, or not
subject to, the process of the Court.
67. Proof of signature and handwriting of person alleged to have signed or written document produced.—If a document is alleged to be signed or to have been written wholly or in part by any person, the signature or the handwriting of so much of the document as is alleged to be in that person’s handwriting must be proved to be in his handwriting.
59 [ 67A Proof as to [electronic signature]. —Except in the case of a secure
[electronic signature], if the [electronic signature] of any subscriber is
alleged to have been affixed to an electronic record the fact that such
[electronic signature] is the [electronic signature] of the subscriber must be
proved.]
68. Proof of execution of document required by law to be attested.—If a document is required by law to be attested, it shall not be used as evidence until one attesting witness at least has been called for the purpose of proving its execution, if there be an attesting witness alive, and subject to the process of the Court and capable of giving evidence: 1[Provided that it shall not be necessary to call an attesting witness in proof of the execution of any document, not being a Will, which has been registered in accordance with the provisions of the Indian Registration Act, 1908 (16 of 1908), unless its execution by the person by whom it purports to have been executed is specifically denied.]
69. Proof where no attesting witness found.—If no such attesting witness can be found, or if the document purports to have been executed in the United Kingdom, it must be proved that the attestation of one attesting witness at least is in his handwriting, and that the signature of the person executing the document is in the handwriting of that person.
70. Admission of execution by party to attested document.—The admission of a party to an attested document of its execution by himself shall be sufficient proof of its execution as against him, though it be a document required by law to be attested.
71. Proof when attesting witness denies the execution.—If the attesting witness denies or does not recollect the execution of the document, its execution may be proved by other evidence.
72. Proof of document not required by law to be attested.—An attested document not required by law to be attested may be proved as if it was unattested.
73. Comparison of signature, writing or seal with others admitted or proved.—In order to ascertain whether a signature, writing or seal is that of the person by whom it purports to have been written or made, any signature, writing, or seal admitted or proved to the satisfaction of the Court to have been written or made by that person may be compared with the one which is to be proved, although that signature, writing, or seal has not been produced or proved for any other purpose. The Court may direct any person present in Court to write any words or figures for the purpose of enabling the Court to compare the words or figures so written with any words or figures alleged to have been written by such person. 1[This section applies also, with any necessary modifications, to finger-impressions.]
1[73A. Proof as to verification of digital signature.—In order to ascertain
whether a digital signature is that of the person by whom it purports to have
been affixed, the Court may direct—2[73A. Proof as to verification of digital
signature.—In order to ascertain whether a digital signature is that of the
person by whom it purports to have been affixed, the Court may direct—"
(a) that person or the Controller or the Certifying Authority to produce the
Digital Signature Certificate;
(b) any other person to apply the public key listed in the Digital Signature
Certificate and verify the digital signature purported to have been affixed by
that person. Explanation.—For the purposes of this section, “Controller” means
the Controller appointed under sub-section (1) of section 17 of the
Information Technology Act, 2000.]
74. Public documents.—The following documents are public documents :—
(1) Documents forming the acts, or records of the acts—
(i) of the sovereign authority,
(ii) of official bodies and tribunals, and
(iii) of public officers, legislative, judicial and executive, 1[of any part
of India or of the Commonwealth], or of a foreign country; 1[of any part of
India or of the Commonwealth], or of a foreign country;"
(2) Public records kept 2[in any State] of private documents.
75. Private documents.—All other documents are private.
76. Certified copies of public documents.—Every 1public officer having the custody of a public document, which any person has a right to inspect, shall give that person on demand a copy of it on payment of the legal fees therefor, together with a certificate written at the foot of such copy that it is a true copy of such document or part thereof, as the case may be, and such certificate shall be dated and subscribed by such officer with his name and his official title, and shall be sealed, whenever such officer is authorized by law to make use of a seal; and such copies so certified shall be called certified copies.—Every 3public officer having the custody of a public document, which any person has a right to inspect, shall give that person on demand a copy of it on payment of the legal fees therefor, together with a certificate written at the foot of such copy that it is a true copy of such document or part thereof, as the case may be, and such certificate shall be dated and subscribed by such officer with his name and his official title, and shall be sealed, whenever such officer is authorized by law to make use of a seal; and such copies so certified shall be called certified copies." Explanation.—Any officer who, by the ordinary course of official duty, is authorized to deliver such copies, shall be deemed to have the custody of such documents within the meaning of this section.
77. Proof of documents by production of certified copies.—Such certified copies may be produced in proof of the contents of the public documents or parts of the public documents of which they purport to be copies.
78. Proof of other official documents.—The following public documents may be proved as follows:—
(1) Acts, orders or notifications of 1[the Central Government] in any of its
departments, 2[or of the Crown Representative] or of any State Government or
any department of any State Government,— 4[the Central Government] in any of
its departments, 5[or of the Crown Representative] or of any State Government
or any department of any State Government,—" by the records of the
departments, certified by the head of those departments respectively, or by
any document purporting to be printed by order of any such Government 2[or, as
the case may be, of the Crown Representative];5[or, as the case may be, of the
Crown Representative];"
(2) The proceedings of the Legislatures,— by the journals of those bodies
respectively, or by published Acts or abstracts, or by copies purporting to be
printed 3[by order of the Government concerned]; 6[by order of the Government
concerned];"
(3) Proclamations, orders or regulations issued by 4[Her Majesty] or by the
Privy Council, or by any department of 4[Her Majesty’s] Government,— 7[Her
Majesty] or by the Privy Council, or by any department of 7[Her Majesty’s]
Government,—" by copies or extracts contained in the London Gazette, or
purporting to be printed by the Queen’s printer;
(4) The acts of the Executive or the proceedings of the Legislature of a
foreign country,— by journals published by their authority, or commonly
received in that country as such, or by a copy certified under the seal of the
country or sovereign, or by a recognition thereof in some 5[Central
Act];1[Central Act];"
(5) The proceedings of a municipal body in 6[a State],2[a State]," by a copy
of such proceedings, certified by the legal keeper thereof, or by a printed
book purporting to be published by the authority of such body;
(6) Public documents of any other class in a foreign country,— by the
original, or by a copy certified by the legal keeper thereof, with a
certificate under the seal of a Notary Public, or of 7[an Indian Consul] or
diplomatic agent, that the copy is duly certified by the officer having the
legal custody of the original, and upon proof of the character of the document
according to the law of the foreign country. 3[an Indian Consul] or diplomatic
agent, that the copy is duly certified by the officer having the legal custody
of the original, and upon proof of the character of the document according to
the law of the foreign country." STATE AMENDMENT tc "STATE AMENDMENT" West
Bengal.—After section 78, insert the following section, namely:—
78A. Copies of public documents, to be as good as original documents in
certain cases.—Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act or any other law
for the time being in force, where any public documents concerning any areas
within West Bengal have been kept in Pakistan, then copies of such public
documents shall, on being authenticated in such manner as may be prescribed
from time to time by the State Government by notification in the Official
Gazette, be deemed to have taken the place of and to be, the original
documents from which such copies were made and all references to the original
documents shall be construed as including references to such copies." [Vide
West Bengal Act 29 of 1955, sec. 3 (w.e.f. 6-10-1955) as amended by West
Bengal Act 20 of 1960, sec. 3 (w.e.f. 5-1-1961)].
79. Presumption as to genuineness of certified copies.—The Court shall presume 1[to be genuine] every document purporting to be a certificate, certified copy, or other document, which is by law declared to be admissible as evidence of any particular fact and which purports to be duly certified by any officer 2[of the Central Government or of a State Government, or by any officer 3[in the State of Jammu and Kashmir] who is duly authorized thereto by the Central Government]: Provided that such document is substantially in the form and purports to be executed in the manner directed by law in that behalf. The Court shall also presume that any officer by whom any such document purports to be signed or certified held, when he signed it, the official character which he claims in such paper.
80. Presumption as to documents produced as record of evidence.—Whenever any document is produced before any Court, purporting to be a record or memorandum of the evidence, or of any part of the evidence, given by a witness in a judicial proceeding or before any officer authorized by law to take such evidence, or to be a statement or confession by any prisoner or accused person, taken in accordance with law, and purporting to be signed by any Judge or Magistrate, or by any such officer as aforesaid, the Court shall presume— that the document is genuine; that any statements as to the circumstances under which it was taken, purporting to be made by the person signing it, are true, and that such evidence, statement or confession was duly taken.
81. Presumption as to Gazettes, newspapers, private Acts of Parliament and other documents.—The Court shall presume the genuineness of every document purporting to be the London Gazette, or 1[any Official Gazette, or the Government Gazette] of any colony, dependency of possession of the British Crown, or to be a newspaper or journal, or to be a copy of a private Act of Parliament 2[of the United Kingdom] printed by the Queen’s Printer, and of every document purporting to be a document directed by any law to be kept by any person, if such document is kept substantially in the form required by law and is produced from proper custody.
1[81A. Presumption as to Gazettes in electronic forms.—The Court shall presume
the genuineness of every electronic record purporting to be the Official
Gazette or purporting to be electronic record directed by any law to be kept
by any person, if such electronic record is kept substantially in the form
required by law and is produced from proper custody.]3[81A. Presumption as to
Gazettes in electronic forms.—The Court shall presume the genuineness of every
electronic record purporting to be the Official Gazette or purporting to be
electronic record directed by any law to be kept by any person, if such
electronic record is kept substantially in the form required by law and is
produced from proper custody.]"
82. Presumption as to document admissible in England without proof of seal or signature.—When any document is produced before any Court, purporting to be a document which, by the law in force for the time being in England or Ireland, would be admissible in proof of any particular in any Court of Justice in England or Ireland, without proof of the seal or stamp or signature authenticating it, or of the judicial or official character claimed by the person by whom it purports to be signed, the Court shall presume that such seal, stamp or signature is genuine, and that the person signing it held, at the time when he signed it, the judicial or official character which he claims, and the document shall be admissible for the same purpose for which it would be admissible in England or Ireland.
83. Presumption as to maps or plans made by authority of Government.—The Court shall presume that maps or plans purporting to be made by the authority of 1[the Central Government or any State Government] were so made, and are accurate; but maps or plans made for the purposes of any cause must be proved to be accurate.—The Court shall presume that maps or plans purporting to be made by the authority of 4[the Central Government or any State Government] were so made, and are accurate; but maps or plans made for the purposes of any cause must be proved to be accurate."
84. Presumption as to collections of laws and reports of decisions.—The Court shall presume the genuineness of every book purporting to be printed or published under the authority of the Government of any country, and to contain any of the laws of that country, and of every book purporting to contain reports of decisions of the Courts of such country.
85. Presumption as to powers-of-attorney.—The Court shall presume that every document purporting to be a power-of-attorney, and to have been executed before, and authenticated by, a Notary Public, or any Court, Judge, Magistrate, 1[Indian] Consul or Vice-Consul, or representative 2[***] of the 3[Central Government], was so executed and authenticated.
83 [ 85A Presumption as to electronic agreements.— The Court shall presume
that every electronic record purporting to be an agreement containing the
[electronic signature] of the parties was so concluded by affixing the
[electronic signature] of the parties.]
84 [ 85B Presumption as to electronic records and 6 [electronic signatures]. —
(1) In any proceedings involving a secure electronic record, the Court shall
presume unless contrary is proved, that the secure electronic record has not
been altered since the specific point of time to which the secure status
relates.
(2) In any proceedings, involving secure [electronic signature], the Court
shall presume unless the contrary is proved that—
(a) the secure [electronic signature] is affixed by subscriber with the
intention of signing or approving the electronic record;
(b) except in the case of a secure electronic record or a secure [electronic
signature], nothing in this section shall cerate any presumption, relating to
authenticity and integrity of the electronic record or any [electronic
signature.]]
85 [ 85C Presumption as to 86 [Electronic Signature Certificates]. —The Court
shall presume, unless contrary is proved, that the information listed in a 86
[Electronic Signature Certificate] is correct, except for information
specified as subscriber information which has not been verfied, if the
certificate was accepted by the subscriber.]
86. Presumption as to certified copies of foreign judicial records.—The Court may presume that any document purporting to be a certified copy of any judicial record of 1[2[***] any country not forming part of India] or of Her Majesty’s dominions is genuine and accurate, if the document purports to be certified in any manner which is certified by any representative of 3[***] the 4[Central Government] 5[in or for] 6[such country] to be the manner commonly in use in 7[that country] for the certification of copies of judicial records. 8[An officer who, with respect to 9[***] any territory or place not forming part of 10[India or] Her Majesty’s dominions, is a Political Agent therefore, as defined in section 3, 11[clause (43)], of the General Clauses Act, 1897 (10 of 1897), shall, for the purposes of this section, be deemed to be a representative of the 12[Central Government] 13[in and for the country] comprising that territory or place].
87. Presumption as to books, maps and charts.—The Court may presume that any book to which it may refer for information on matters of public or general interest, and that any published map or chart, the statements of which are relevant facts and which is produced for its inspection, was written and published by the person and at the time and place, by whom or at which it purports to have been written or published.
88. Presumption as to telegraphic messages.—The Court may presume that a message, forwarded from a telegraph office to the person to whom such message purports to be addressed, corresponds with a message delivered for transmission at the office from which the message purports to be sent; but the Court shall not make any presumption as to the person by whom such message was delivered for transmission.
1[88A. Presumption as to electronic messages.—The Court may presume that an
electronic message, forwarded by the originator through an electronic mail
server to the addressee to whom the message purports to be addressed
corresponds with the message as fed into his computer for transmission; but
the Court shall not make any presumption as to the person by whom such message
was sent.3[88A. Presumption as to electronic messages.—The Court may presume
that an electronic message, forwarded by the originator through an electronic
mail server to the addressee to whom the message purports to be addressed
corresponds with the message as fed into his computer for transmission; but
the Court shall not make any presumption as to the person by whom such message
was sent." Explanation.—For the purposes of this section, the expressions
“addressee” and “originator” shall have the same meanings respectively
assigned to them in clauses (b) and (za) of sub-section
(1) of section 2 of the Information Technology Act, 2000.]
89. Presumption as to due execution, etc., of documents not produced.—The Court shall presume that every document, called for and not produced after notice to produce, was attested, stamped and executed in the manner required by law.
90. Presumption as to documents thirty years old.—Where any document, purporting or proved to be thirty years old, is produced from any custody which the Court in the particular case considers proper, the Court may presume that the signature and every other part of such document, which purports to be in the handwriting of any particular person, is in that person’s handwriting, and, in the case of a document executed or attested, that it was duly executed and attested by the persons by whom it purports to be executed and attested. Explanation.—Documents are said to be in proper custody if they are in the place in which, and under the care of the person with whom, they would naturally be; but no custody is improper if it is proved to have had a legitimate origin, or if the circumstances of the particular case are such as to render such an origin probable. This Explanation applies also to section 81. Illustrations
(a) A has been in possession of landed property for a long time. He produces
from his custody deeds relating to the land showing his titles to it. The
custody is proper.
(b) A produces deeds relating to landed property of which he is the mortgagee.
The mortgagor is in possession. The custody is proper.
(c) A, a connection of B, produces deeds relating to lands in B’s possession,
which were deposited with him by B for safe custody. The custody is proper.
STATE AMENDMENTS Uttar Pradesh.—(a) Renumber section 90 as sub-section (1)
thereof;
(b) in sub-section (1) as so renumbered, for the words “thirty years”,
substitute the words “twenty years”;
(c) after sub-section (1) as so renumbered, insert the following sub-section,
namely:— “(2) Where any such document as is referred to in sub-section (1) was
registered in accordance with the law relating to registration of documents
and a duly certified copy thereof is produced, the court may presume that the
signature and every other part of such document which purports to be in the
handwriting of any particular person, it is that person's handwriting, and in
the case of a document executed or attested, that it was duly executed and
attested by the person by whom it purports to have been executed or attested”.
(d) After section 90, insert the following section, namely:— “90A. (1) Where
any registered document or a duly certified copy thereof or any certified copy
of a document which is part of the record of a Court of Justice, is produced
from any custody which the Court in the particular case considers proper, the
Court may presume that the original was executed by the person by whom it
purports to have been executed.
(2) This presumption shall not be made in respect of any document which is the
basis of a suit or of defence or is relied upon in the plaint or written
statement.” The Explanation to sub-section (1) of section 90 will also apply
to this section; [Vide Uttar Pradesh Act 24 of 1954, sec. 2 and Sch. (w.e.f.
30-11-1954).] COMMENTS Presumption Assuming that the document is more than
thirty years old and comes from proper custody, there would be no presumption
that contents of the same are true; Mohinuddin v. President, Municipal
Committee, Khargone, AIR 1993 MP 5.
97 [ 90A Presumption as to electronic records five years old. —Where any
electronic record, purporting or proved to be five years old, is produced from
any custody which the Court in the particular case considers proper, the Court
may presume that the 98 [electronic signature] which purports to be the 98
[electronic signature] of any particular person was so affixed by him or any
person authorised by him in this behalf. Explanation. —Electronic records are
said to be in proper custody if they are in the place in which, and under the
care of the person with whom, they naturally be; but no custody is improper if
it is proved to have had a legitimate origin, or the circumstances of the
particular case are such as to render such an origin probable. This
Explanation applies also to section 81A.]
91. Evidence of terms of contracts, grants and other dispositions of property reduced to form of documents.—When the terms of a contract, or of a grant, or of any other disposition of property, have been reduced to the form of a document, and in all cases in which any matter is required by law to be reduced to the form of a document, no evidence1 shall be given in proof of the terms of such contract, grant or other disposition of property, or of such matter, except the document itself, or secondary evidence of its contents in cases in which secondary evidence is admissible under the provisions hereinbefore contained.—When the terms of a contract, or of a grant, or of any other disposition of property, have been reduced to the form of a document, and in all cases in which any matter is required by law to be reduced to the form of a document, no evidence2 shall be given in proof of the terms of such contract, grant or other disposition of property, or of such matter, except the document itself, or secondary evidence of its contents in cases in which secondary evidence is admissible under the provisions hereinbefore contained." Exception 1.—When a public officer is required by law to be appointed in writing, and when it is shown that any particular person has acted as such officer, the writing by which he is appointed need not be proved. Exception 2.—Wills 2[admitted to probate in 3[India]] may be proved by the probate. Explanation 1.—This section applies equally to cases in which the contracts, grants or dispositions of property referred to are contained in one document, and to cases in which they are contained in more documents than one. Explanation. 2.—Where there are more originals than one, one original only need be proved. Explanation 3.—The statement, in any document whatever, of a fact other than the facts referred to in this section, shall not preclude the admission of oral evidence as to the same fact. Illustrations
(a) If a contract be contained in several letters, all the letters in which it
is contained must be proved.
(b) If a contract is contained in a bill of exchange, the bill of exchange
must be proved.
(c) If a bill of exchange is drawn in a set of three, one only need be proved.
(d) A contracts, in writing, with B, for the delivery of indigo upon certain
terms. The contract mentions the fact that B had paid A the price of other
indigo contracted for verbally on another occasion. Oral evidence is offered
that no payment was made for the other indigo. The evidence is admissible.
(e) A gives B receipt for money paid by B. Oral evidence is offered of the
payment. The evidence is admissible.
92. Exclusion of evidence of oral agreement.—When the terms of any such contract, grant or other disposition of property, or any matter required by law to be reduced to the form of a document, have been proved according to the last section, no evidence of any oral agreement or statement shall be admitted, as between the parties to any such instrument or their representatives in interest, for the purpose of contradicting, varying, adding to, or subtracting from, its terms: Proviso
(1) .—Any fact may be proved which would invalidate any document, or which
would entitle any person to any decree or order relating thereto; such as
fraud, intimidation, illegality, want of due execution, want of capacity in
any contracting party, 1[want or failure] of consideration, or mistake in fact
or law: (1).—Any fact may be proved which would invalidate any document, or
which would entitle any person to any decree or order relating thereto; such
as fraud, intimidation, illegality, want of due execution, want of capacity in
any contracting party, 3[want or failure] of consideration, or mistake in fact
or law\:" Proviso (2).—The existence of any separate oral agreement as to any
matter on which a document is silent, and which is not inconsistent with its
terms, may be proved. In considering whether or not this proviso applies, the
Court shall have regard to the degree of formality of the document: Proviso
(3).—The existence of any separate oral agreement, constituting a condition
precedent to the attaching of any obligation under any such contract, grant or
disposition of property, may be proved: Proviso (4).—The existence of any
distinct subsequent oral agreement to rescind or modify any such contract,
grant or disposition of property, may be proved, except in cases in which such
contract, grant or disposition of property is by law required to be in
writing, or has been registered according to the law in force for the time
being as to the registration of documents: Proviso (5).—Any usage or custom by
which incidents not expressly mentioned in any contract are usually annexed to
contracts of that description, may be proved: Provided that the annexing of
such incident would not be repugnant to, or inconsistent with, the express
terms of the contract: Proviso (6).—Any fact may be proved which shows in what
manner the language of a document is related to existing facts. Illustrations
(a) A policy of insurance is effected on goods “in ships from Calcutta to
London”. The goods are shipped in a particular ship which is lost. The fact
that that particular ship was orally excepted from the policy, cannot be
proved.
(b) A agrees absolutely in writing to pay B Rs. 1,000 on the 1st March, 1873.
The fact that, at the same time, an oral agreement was made that the money
should not be paid till the thirty-first March, cannot be proved.
(c) An estate called “the Rampure tea estate” is sold by a deed which contains
a map of the property sold. The fact that land not included in the map had
always been regarded as part of the estate and was meant to pass by the deed,
cannot be proved.
(d) A enters into a written contract with B to work certain mines, the
property of B, upon certain terms. A was induced to do so by a
misrepresentation of B’s as to their value. This fact may be proved.
(e) A institutes a suit against B for the specific performance of a contract,
and also prays that the contract may be reformed as to one of its provisions,
as that provision was inserted in it by mistake. A may prove that such a
mistake was made as would by law entitle him to have the contract reformed.
(f) A orders goods of B by a letter in which nothing is said as to the time of
payment, and accepts the goods on delivery. B sues A for the price. A may show
that the goods were supplied on credit for a term still unexpired.
(g) A sells B a horse and verbally warrants him sound. A gives B a paper in
these words “Bought of A a horse for Rs. 500”. B may prove the verbal
warranty.
(h) A hires lodgings of B, and gives B a card on which is written—“Rooms, Rs.
200 a month”. A may prove a verbal agreement that these terms were to include
partial board. A hires lodgings of B for a year, and a regularly stamped
agreement, drawn up by an attorney, is made between them. It is silent on the
subject of board. A may not prove that board was included in the term
verbally.
(i) A applies to B for a debt due to A by sending a receipt for the money. B
keeps the receipt and does not send the money. In a suit for the amount, A may
prove this.
(j) A and B make a contract in writing to take effect upon the happening of a
certain contingency. The writing is left with B, who sues A upon it. A may
show the circumstances under which it was delivered. Comments Deed of
collateral security: manner of execution If it is a deed of collateral
security of defendant, then the defendant would have had to execute a deed in
favour of plaintiff and not vice versa, where the plaintiff has executed the
mortgage the plea of evidence of collateral security offered by defendant
appears not to fit into a situation; Ishwar Dass v. Sohan Lal, AIR 2000 SC
426. Inference can be drawn regarding proof of document by admission of
parties either oral or other evidence; B.B. Lohar v. P.P. Goyal, AIR 1999
Sikkim 11. Position of stranger The rule as to exclusion of oral by
documentary evidence governs the parties to the deed in writing. A stranger to
the document is not bound by the terms of the document and is, therefore, not
excluded from demonstrating the untrue or collusive nature of the document or
the fraudulent or illegal purpose for which it was brought into being;
Parvinder Singh v. Renu Gautam, (2004) 4 SCC 794.
93. Exclusion of evidence to explain or amend ambiguous document.—When the language used in a document is, on its face, ambiguous or defective, evidence may not be given of facts which would show its meaning or supply its defects. Illustrations
(a) A agrees, in writing, to sell a horse to B for “Rs. 1,000 or Rs. 1,500”.
Evidence cannot be given to show which price was to be given.
(b) A deed contains blanks. Evidence cannot be given of facts which would show
how they were meant to be filled.
94. Exclusion of evidence against application of document to existing facts.—When language used in a document is plain in itself, and when it applies accurately to existing facts, evidence may not be given to show that it was not meant to apply to such facts. Illustration A sells to B, by deed, “my estate at Rampur containing 100 bighas”. A has an estate at Rampur containing 100 bighas. Evidence may not be given of the fact that the estate meant to be sold was one situated at a different place and of a different size.
95. Evidence as to document unmeaning in reference to existing facts.—When language used in a document is plain in itself, but is unmeaning in reference to existing facts, evidence may be given to show that it was used in a peculiar sense. Illustration A sells to B, by deed, “my house in Calcutta”. A had no house in Calcutta, but it appears that he had a house at Howrah, of which B had been in possession since the execution of the deed. These facts may be proved to show that the deed related to the house of Howrah.
96. Evidence as to application of language which can apply to one only of several persons.—When the facts are such that the language used might have been meant to apply to any one, and could not have been meant to apply to more than one, of several persons or things, evidence may be given of facts which show which of those persons or things it was intended to apply to. Illustrations
(a) A agrees to sell to B, for Rs. 1,000, “my white horse”. A has two white
horses. Evidence may be given of facts which show which of them was meant.
(b) A agrees to accompany B to Haidarabad. Evidence may be given of facts
showing whether Haidarabad in the Dekkhan or Haidarabad in Sindh was meant.
97. Evidence as to application of language to one of two sets of facts, to neither of which the whole correctly applies.—When the language used applies partly to one set existing facts, and partly to another set of existing facts, but the whole of it does not apply correctly to either, evidence may be given to show to which of the two it was meant to apply. Illustrations A agrees to sell to B “my land at X in the occupation of Y". A has land at X, but not in the occupation of Y, and he has land in the occupation of Y, but it is not at X. Evidence may be given of facts showing which he meant to sell.
98. Evidence as to meaning of illegible characters, etc.—Evidence may be given to show the meaning of illegible or not commonly intelligible characters, of foreign, obsolete, technical, local and provincial expressions, of abbreviations and of words used in a peculiar sense. Illustration A, a sculptor, agrees to sell to B, “all my mods”. A has both models and modelling tools. Evidence may be given to show which he meant to sell.
99. Who may give evidence of agreement varying term of document.—Persons who are not parties to a document, or their representatives in interest, may give evidence of any facts tending to show a contemporaneous agreement varying the terms of the document. Illustration A and B make a contract in writing that B shall sell A certain cotton, to be paid for on delivery. At the same time they make an oral agreement that three months’s credit shall be given to A. This could not be shown as between A and B, but it might be shown by C, if it affected his interests.
100. Saving of provisions of Indian Succession Act relating to Wills.—Nothing in this Chapter contained shall be taken to affect any of the provisions of the Indian Succession Act (10 of 1865)1 as to the construction of Wills.
101. Burden of proof.—Whoever desires any Court to give judgment as to any legal right or liability dependent on the existence of facts which he asserts, must prove that those facts exist. When a person is bound to prove the existence of any fact, it is said that the burden of proof lies on that person. Illustrations
(a) A desires a Court to give judgment that B shall be punished for a crime
which A says B has committed. A must prove that B has committed the crime.
(b) A desires a Court to give judgment that he is entitled to certain land in
the possession of B, by reason of facts which he asserts, and which B denies,
to be true. A must prove the existence of those facts. COMMENTS Joint family
property Merely because some of properties continue to stand in the name of
plaintiff that by itself cannot lead to any conclusion that the property
purchased by any one member of the family would necessarily be a part of joint
family property and when evidence shows that the person who has purchased
property had been engaged in an independent business for a sufficient long
period; Baban Girju v. Namdeo Girju Bangar, AIR 1999 Bom 46. Reasonable proof
of ownership In absence of any reasonable proof that defendant was the actual
owner of the property, and plaintiff was only a name given does not prove that
respondent was owner and plaint maker was only a name given to the property;
Rama Kanta Jain v. M.S. Jain, AIR 1999 Del 281. What to be proved by
prosecution It is well settled that the prosecution can succeed by
substantially proving the very story it alleges. It must stand on its own
legs. It cannot take advantage of the weakness of the defence. Nor can the
court on its own make out a new case for the prosecution and convict the
accused on that basis; Narain Singh v. State, (1997) 2 Crimes 464 (Del).
102. On whom burden of proof lies.—The burden of proof in a suit or proceeding lies on that person who would fail if no evidence at all were given on either side. Illustrations
(a) A sues B for land of which B is in possession, and which, as A asserts,
was left to A by the will of C, B’s father. If no evidence were given on
either side, B would be entitled to retain his possession. Therefore the
burden of proof is on A.
(b) A sues B for money due on a bond. The execution of the bond is admitted,
but B says that it was obtained by fraud, which A denies. If no evidence were
given on either side, A would succeed, as the bond is not disputed and the
fraud is not proved. Therefore the burden of proof is on B.
103. Burden of proof as to particular fact.—The burden of proof as to any particular fact lies on that person who wishes the Court to believe in its existence, unless it is provided by any law that the proof of that fact shall lie on any particular person. Illustration 1[
(a) ] A prosecutes B for theft, and wishes the Court to believe that B
admitted the theft to C. A must prove the admission. B wishes the Court to
believe that, at the time in question, he was elsewhere. He must prove it.
COMMENTS Plea of alibi Plea of alibi taken by accused, it is he who has to
prove it; State of Haryana v. Sher Singh, AIR 1981 SC 1021: 1981 SC Cr R 317:
1981 Cr LJ 714: (1981) 2 SCC 300.
104. Burden of proving fact to be proved to make evidence admissible.—The burden of proving any fact necessary to be proved in order to enable any person to give evidence of any other fact is on the person who wishes to give such evidence. Illustrations
(a) A wishes to prove a dying declaration by B. A must prove B’s death.
(b) A wishes to prove, by secondary evidence, the contents of a lost document.
A must prove that the document has been lost.
105. Burden of proving that case of accused comes within exceptions.—When a person is accused of any offence, the burden of proving the existence of circumstances bringing the case within any of the General Exceptions in the Indian Penal Code, (45 of 1860), or within any special exception or proviso contained in any other part of the same Code, or in any law defining the offence, is upon him, and the Court shall presume the absence of such circumstances. Illustrations
(a) A, accused of murder, alleges that, by reason of unsoundness of mind, he
did not know the nature of the act. The burden of proof is on A.
(b) A, accused of murder, alleges, that by grave and sudden provocation, he
was deprived of the power of self-control. The burden of proof is on A.
(c) Section 325 of the Indian Penal Code, (45 of 1860), provides that whoever,
except in the case provided for by section 335, voluntarily causes grievous
hurt, shall be subject to certain punishments. A is charged with voluntarily
causing grievous hurt under section 325. The burden of proving the
circumstances bringing the case under section 335 lies on A. COMMENTS Plea of
self-defence When the prosecution has established its case, it is incumbent
upon the accused, under section 105 to establish the case of his private
defence by showing probability; Samuthram alias Samudra Rajan v. State of
Tamil Nadu, (1997) 2 Crimes 185 (Mad). The burden of establishing the plea of
self-defence is on the accused and the burden stands discharged by showing
preponderance of probabilities in favour of that plea on the basis of material
on record; Rizan v. State of Chhattisgarh, AIR 2003 SC 976.
106. Burden of proving fact especially within knowledge.—When any fact is especially within the knowledge of any person, the burden of proving that fact is upon him. Illustrations
(a) When a person does an act with some intention other than that which the
character and circumstances of the act suggest, the burden of proving that
intention is upon him.
(b) A is charged with travelling on a railway without a ticket. The burden of
proving that he had a ticket is on him.
107. Burden of proving death of person known to have been alive within thirty years.—When the question is whether a man is alive or dead, and it is shown that he was alive within thirty years, the burden of proving that he is dead is on the person who affirms it.
108. Burden of proving that person is alive who has not been heard of for seven years.—1[Provided that when] the question is whether a man is alive or dead, and it is proved that he has not been heard of for seven years by those who would naturally have heard of him if he had been alive, the burden of proving that he is alive is 2[shifted to] the person who affirms it.—1[Provided that when] the question is whether a man is alive or dead, and it is proved that he has not been heard of for seven years by those who would naturally have heard of him if he had been alive, the burden of proving that he is alive is 2[shifted to] the person who affirms it."
109. Burden of proof as to relationship in the cases of partners, landlord and tenant, principal and agent.—When the question is whether persons are partners, landlord and tenant, or principal and agent, and it has been shown that they have been acting as such, the burden of proving that they do not stand, or have ceased to stand, to each other in those relationships respectively, is on the person who affirms it.
110. Burden of proof as to ownership.—When the question is whether any person is owner of anything of which he is shown to be in possession, the burden of proving that he is not the owner is on the person who affirms that he is not the owner.
111. Proof of good faith in transactions where one party is in relation of active confidence.—Where there is a question as to the good faith of a transaction between parties, one of whom stands to the other in a position of active confidence, the burden of proving the good faith of the transaction is on the party who is in a position of active confidence. Illustrations
(a) The good faith of a sale by a client to an attorney is in question in a
suit brought by the client. The burden of proving the good faith of the
transaction is on the attorney.
(b) The good faith of a sale by a son just come of age to a father is in
question in a suit brought by the son. The burden of proving the good faith of
the transaction is on the father.
1[111A. Presumption as to certain offences.—
(1) Where a person is accused of having committed any offence specified in
sub-section (2), in—1[111A. Presumption as to certain offences.—(1) Where a
person is accused of having committed any offence specified in sub-section
(2), in—"
(a) any area declared to be a disturbed areas under any enactment, for the
time being in force, making provision for the suppression of disorder and
restoration and maintenance of public order; or
(b) any area in which there has been, over a period of more than one month,
extensive disturbance of the public peace, and it is shown that such person
had been at a place in such area at a time when firearms or explosives were
used at or from that place to attack or resist the members of any armed forces
or the forces charged with the maintenance of public order acting in the
discharge of their duties, it shall be presumed, unless the contrary is shown,
that such person had committed such offence.
(2) The offences referred to in sub-section (1) are the following, namely:—
(a) an offence under section 121, section 121A section 122 or section 123 of
the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860);
(b) criminal conspiracy or attempt to commit, or abatement of, an offence
under section 122 or section 123 of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860).]
112. Birth during marriage, conclusive proof of legitimacy.—The fact that any person was born during the continuance of a valid marriage between his mother and any man, or within two hundred and eighty days after its dissolution, the mother remaining unmarried, shall be conclusive proof that he is the legitimate son of that man, unless it can be shown that the parties to the marriage had no access to each other at any time when he could have been begotten.
113. Proof of cession of territory.—A notification in the Official Gazette that any portion of British territory has 1[before the commencement of Part III of the Government of India Act, 1935 (26 Geo. 5, ch. 2)] been ceded to any Native State, Prince or Ruler, shall be conclusive proof that a valid cession of such territory took place at the date mentioned in such notification.—A notification in the Official Gazette that any portion of British territory has 2[before the commencement of Part III of the Government of India Act, 1935 (26 Geo. 5, ch. 2)] been ceded to any Native State, Prince or Ruler, shall be conclusive proof that a valid cession of such territory took place at the date mentioned in such notification."
1[113A. Presumption as to abetment of suicide by a married woman.—When the
question is whether the commission of suicide by a woman had been abetted by
her husband or any relative of her husband and it is shown that she had
committed suicide within a period of seven years from the date of her marriage
and that her husband or such relative of her husband had subjected her to
cruelty, the Court may presume, having regard to all the other circumstances
of the case, that such suicide had been abetted by her husband or by such
relative of her husband.1[113A. Presumption as to abetment of suicide by a
married woman.—When the question is whether the commission of suicide by a
woman had been abetted by her husband or any relative of her husband and it is
shown that she had committed suicide within a period of seven years from the
date of her marriage and that her husband or such relative of her husband had
subjected her to cruelty, the Court may presume, having regard to all the
other circumstances of the case, that such suicide had been abetted by her
husband or by such relative of her husband." Explanation.—For the purposes of
this section, “cruelty” shall have the same meaning as in section 498A of the
Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860).]
1[113B. Presumption as to dowry death.—When the question is whether a person
has committed the dowry death of a woman and it is shown that soon before her
death such woman has been subjected by such person to cruelty or harassment
for, or in connection with, any demand for dowry, the Court shall presume that
such person had caused the dowry death. Explanation.—For the purposes of this
section, “dowry death” shall have the same meaning as in section 304B, of the
Indian Penal Code, (45 of 1860).]
114 Court may presume existence of certain facts. —The Court may presume the
existence of any fact which it thinks likely to have happened, regard being
had to the common course of natural events, human conduct and public and
private business, in their relation to the facts of the particular case.
Illustrations The Court may presume—
(a) That a man who is in possession of stolen goods soon after the theft is
either the thief or has received the goods knowing them to be stolen, unless
he can account for his possession;
(b) That an accomplice is unworthy of credit, unless he is corroborated in
material particulars;
(c) That a bill of exchange, accepted or endorsed, was accepted or endorsed
for good consideration;
(d) That a thing or state of things which has been shown to be in existence
within a period shorter than that within which such things or state of things
usually cease to exist, is still in existence;
(e) That judicial and official acts have been regularly performed;
(f) That the common course of business has been followed in particular cases;
(g) That evidence which could be and is not produced would, if produced, be
unfavourable to the person who withholds it;
(h) That if a man refuses to answer a question which he is not compelled to
answer by law, the answer, if given, would be unfavourable to him;
(i) That when a document creating an obligation is in the hands of the
obligor, the obligation has been discharged.
But the Court shall also have regard to such facts as the following, in
considering whether such maxims do or do not apply to the particular case
before it:— As to illustration
(a) — A shop-keeper has in his till a marked rupee soon after it was stolen,
and cannot account for its possession specifically, but is continually
receiving rupees in the course of his business; As to illustration (b)—A, a
person of the highest character, is tried for causing a man's death by an act
of negligence in arranging certain machinery. B, a person of equally good
character, who also took part in the arrangement, describes precisely what was
done, and admits and explains the common carelessness of A and himself; As to
illustration (b)—A crime is committed by several persons. A, B and C, three of
the criminals, are captured on the spot and kept apart from each other. Each
gives an account of the crime implicating D, and the accounts corroborate each
other in such a manner as to render previous concert highly improbable; As to
illustration (c)— A, the drawer of a bill of exchange, was a man of business.
B, the acceptor, was young and ignorant person, completely under A's
influence; As to illustration (d)—It is proved that a river ran in a certain
course five years ago, but it is known that there have been floods since that
time which might change its course; As to illustration (e)—A judicial act, the
regularity of which is in question, was performed under exceptional
circumstances; As to illustration (f)—The question is, whether a letter was
received. It is shown to have been posted, but the usual course of the post
was interrupted by disturbances; As to illustration (g)—A man refuses to
produce a document which would bear on a contract of small importance on which
he is sued, but which might also injure the feelings and reputation of his
family; As to illustration (h)—A man refuses to answer a question which he is
not compelled by law to answer, but the answer to it might cause loss to him
in matters unconnected with the matter in relation to which it is asked; As to
illustration (i)—A bond is in possession of the obligor, but the circumstances
of the case are such that he may have stolen it.
(i) There would be presumption in favour of wedlock if the partners lived
together for long spell as husband and wife; but it would be rebuttable and
heavy burden lies on the person who seeks to deprive the relationship of legal
origin to prove that no marriage took place; Tulsa v. Durghatiya, 2008 (1) SCR
709: 2008 (4) SCC 520.
(ii) Presumption is rebuttable. If there is any such circumstance weakening
such presumption, it cannot be ignored by the court; Sobha Hymavathi Devi v.
Setti Gangadhara Swamy, AIR 2005 SC 800.
(iii) When oral and other reliable evidences are satisfactorily giving
evidence that the pair lived together as husband and wife, merely because
family register does not show them as husband and wife is not a clinching
evidence to deny their relationship of husband and wife; Lalta v. District
IVth upper Distt. Judge Basti, AIR 1999 All 342.
(iv) Genuine and correctness of document have to be proved by a person
believes upon it by cogent and direct evidence; Ashok Kumar Uttam Chand Shah
v. Patel Mohmad Asmal Chanchad, AIR 1999 Guj 108.
(v) A court may legitimately draw a presumption not only of the fact that the
person in whose possession the stolen articles were found committed the
robbery but also that he committed the murder; Mukund alias Kundu Mishra v.
State of Madhya Pradesh, (1997) 4 Supreme 359.
(vi) The recovery made some days after the dacoity does not raise a
presumption under section 114(a) in respect of the offence of dacoity; Vasant
alias Roshan Sogaji Bhosale v. State of Maharashtra, (1997) 2 Crimes 104
(Bom).
1[114A. Presumption as to absence of consent in certain prosecutions for
rape.—In a prosecution for rape under clause
(a) or clause (b) or clause (c) or clause (d) or clause (e) or clause (g) of
sub-section (2) of section 376 of the Indian Penal Code, (45 of 1860), where
sexual intercourse by the accused is proved and the question is whether it was
without the consent of the woman alleged to have been raped and she states in
her evidence before the Court that she did not consent, the Court shall
presume that she did not consent.]
115 Estoppel. —When one person has, by his declaration, act or omission,
intentionally caused or permitted another person to believe a thing to be true
and to act upon such belief, neither he nor his representative shall be
allowed, in any suit or proceeding between himself and such person or his
representative, to deny the truth of that thing. Illustration A intentionally
and falsely leads B to believe that certain land belongs to A, and thereby
induces B to buy and pay for it. The land afterwards becomes the property of
A, and A seeks to set aside the sale on the ground that, at the time of the
sale, he had no title. He must not be allowed to prove his want of title.
116. Estoppel of tenant; and of licensee of person in possession.—No tenant of immovable property, or person claiming through such tenant, shall, during the continuance of the tenancy, be permitted to deny that the landlord of such tenant had, at the beginning of the tenancy, a title to such immovable property; and no person who came upon any immovable property by the licence of the person in possession thereof, shall be permitted to deny that such person had a title to such possession at the time when such licence was given.
117. Estoppel of acceptor of bill of exchange, bailee or licensee.—No acceptor of a bill of exchange shall be permitted to deny that the drawer had authority to draw such bill or to endorese it; nor shall any bailee or licensee be permitted to deny that his bailor or licensor had, at the time when the bailment or licence commenced, authority to make such bailment or grant such licence. Explanation 1.—The acceptor of a bill of exchange may deny that the bill was really drawn by the person by whom it purports to have been drawn. Explanation 2.—If a bailee delivers the goods bailed to a person other than the bailor, he may prove that such person had a right to them as against the bailor.
118 Who may testify. —All persons shall be competent to testify unless the
Court considers that they are prevented from understanding the questions put
to them, or from giving rational answers to those questions, by tender years,
extreme old age, disease, whether of body or mind, or any other cause of the
same kind. Explanation.— A lunatic is not incompetent to testify, unless he is
prevented by his lunacy from understanding the questions put to him and giving
rational answers to them.
119. Dumb witnesses.—A witness who is unable to speak may give his evidence in any other manner in which he can make it intelligible, as by writing or by signs; but such writing must be written and the signs made in open Court. Evidence so given shall be deemed to be oral evidence.
120. Parties to civil suit, and their wives or husbands. Husband or wife of person under criminal trial.—In all civil proceedings the parties to the suit, and the husband or wife of any party to the suit, shall be competent witnesses. In criminal proceedings against any person, the husband or wife of such person, respectively, shall be a competent witness.
121. Judges and Magistrates.—No Judge or Magistrate shall, except upon the special order of some Court to which he is subordinate, be compelled to answer any question as to his own conduct in Court as such Judge or Magistrate, or as to anything which came to his knowledge in Court as such Judge or Magistrate; but he may be examined as to other matters which occurred in his presence whilst he was so acting. Illustrations
(a) A, on his trial before the Court of Sessions, says that a deposition was
improperly taken by B, the Magistrate. B cannot be compelled to answer
questions as to this, except upon the special order of a superior Court.
(b) A is accused before the Court of Sessions of having given false evidence
before B, a Magistrate. B cannot be asked what A said, except upon the special
order of the superior Court.
(c) A is accused before the Court of Sessions of attempting to murder a police
officer whilst on his trial before B, a Sessions Judge. B may be examined as
to what occurred.
122. Communications during marriage.—No person who is or has been married, shall be compelled to disclose any communication made to him during marriage by any person to whom he is or has been married; nor shall he be permitted to disclose any such communication, unless the person who made it, or his representative in interest, consents, except in suits between married persons, or proceedings in which one married person is prosecuted for any crime committed against the other.
123. Evidence as to affairs of State.—No one shall be permitted to give any evidence derived from unpublished official records relating to any affairs of State, except with the permission of the officer at the head of the department concerned, who shall give or withhold such permission as he thinks fit.
124. Official communications.—No public officer shall be compelled to disclose communications made to him in official confidence, when he considers that the public interests would suffer by the disclosure.
1[125. Information as to commission of offences.—No Magistrate or Police
officer shall be compelled to say whence he got any information as to the
commission of any offence, and no Revenue officer shall be compelled to say
whence he got any information as to the commission of any offence against the
public revenue.1[125. Information as to commission of offences.—No Magistrate
or Police officer shall be compelled to say whence he got any information as
to the commission of any offence, and no Revenue officer shall be compelled to
say whence he got any information as to the commission of any offence against
the public revenue." Explanation.—"Revenue officer” in this section means an
officer employed in or about the business of any branch of the public
revenue.]
126. Professional communications.—No barrister, attorney, pleader or vakil shall at any time be permitted, unless with his client’s express consent, to disclose any communication made to him in the course and for the purpose of his employment as such barrister, pleader, attorney or vakil, by or on behalf of his client, or to state the contents or condition of any document with which he has become acquainted in the course and for the purpose of his professional employment, or to disclose any advice given by him to his client in the course and for the purpose of such employment: Provided that nothing in this section shall protect from disclosure—
(1) Any such communication made in furtherance of any 1[illegal] purpose;
2[illegal] purpose;"
(2) Any fact observed by any barrister, pleader, attorney or vakil, in the
course of his employment as such, showing that any crime or fraud has been
committed since the commencement of his employment. It is immaterial whether
the attention of such barrister, 2[pleader], attorney or vakil was or was not
directed to such fact by or on behalf of his client. Explanation.—The
obligation stated in this section continues after the employment has ceased.
Illustrations
(a) A, a client, says to B, an attorney—“I have committed forgery, and I wish
you to defend me”. As the defence of a man known to be guilty is not a
criminal purpose, this communication is protected from disclosure.
(b) A, a client, says to B, an attorney—“I wish to obtain possession of
property by the use of a forged deed on which I request you to sue”. This
communication, being made in furtherance of a criminal purpose, is not
protected from disclosure.
(c) A, being charged with embezzlement, retains B, an attorney, to defend him.
In the course of the proceedings, B observes that an entry has been made in
A’s account-book, charging A with the sum said to have been embezzled, which
entry was not in the book at the commencement of his employment. This being a
fact observed by B in the course of his employment, showing that a fraud has
been committed since the commencement of the proceedings, it is not protected
from disclosure.
127. Section 126 to apply to interpreters, etc.—The provisions of section 126 shall apply to interpreters, and the clerks or servants of barristers, pleaders, attorneys, and vakils.
128. Privilege not waived by volunteering evidence.—If any party to a suit gives evidence therein at his own instance or otherwise, he shall not be deemed to have consented thereby to such disclosure as is mentioned in section 126; and if any party to a suit or proceeding calls any such barrister, 1[pleader], attorney or vakil as a witness, he shall be deemed to have consented to such disclosure only if he questions such barrister, attorney or vakil on matters which, but for such question, he would not be at liberty to disclose.—If any party to a suit gives evidence therein at his own instance or otherwise, he shall not be deemed to have consented thereby to such disclosure as is mentioned in section 126; and if any party to a suit or proceeding calls any such barrister, 1[pleader], attorney or vakil as a witness, he shall be deemed to have consented to such disclosure only if he questions such barrister, attorney or vakil on matters which, but for such question, he would not be at liberty to disclose."
129. Confidential communications with legal advisers.—No one shall be compelled to disclose to the Court any confidential communication which has taken place between him and his legal professional adviser, unless he offers himself as a witness, in which case he may be compelled to disclose any such communications as may appear to the Court necessary to be known in order to explain any evidence which he has given, but no others.
130. Production of title-deeds of witness not a party.—No witness who is not a party to a suit shall be compelled to produce his title-deeds to any property, or any document in virtue of which he holds any property as pledgee or mortgagee, or any document the production of which might tend to criminate him, unless he has agreed in writing to produce them with the person seeking the production of such deeds or some person through whom he claims.
1[131. Production of documents or electronic records which another person,
having possession, could refuse to produce.—No one shall be compelled to
produce documents in his possession or electronic records under his control,
which any other person would be entitled to refuse to produce if they were in
his possession, or control, unless such last-mentioned person consents to
their production.]2[131. Production of documents or electronic records which
another person, having possession, could refuse to produce.—No one shall be
compelled to produce documents in his possession or electronic records under
his control, which any other person would be entitled to refuse to produce if
they were in his possession, or control, unless such last-mentioned person
consents to their production.]"
132. Witness not excused from answering on ground that answer will criminate.—A witness shall not be excused from answering any question as to any matter relevant to the matter in issue in any suit or in any civil or criminal proceeding, upon the ground that the answer to such question will criminate, or may tend directly or indirectly to criminate, such witness, or that it will expose, or tend directly or indirectly to expose, such witness to a penalty or forfeiture of any kind:
(Proviso) —Provided that no such answer, which a witness shall be compelled to
give, shall subject him to any arrest or prosecution, or be proved against him
in any criminal proceeding, except a prosecution for giving false evidence by
such answer.
133. Accomplice.—An accomplice shall be a competent witness against an accused person; and a conviction is not illegal merely because it proceeds upon the uncorroborated testimony of an accomplice.
134. Number of witnesses.—No particular number of witnesses shall in any case be required for the proof of any fact.
135. Order of production and examination of witnesses.—The order in which witnesses are produced and examined shall be regulated by the law and practice for the time being relating to civil and criminal procedure respectively, and, in the absence of any such law, by the discretion of the Court.
136. Judge to decide as to admissibility of evidence.—When either party proposes to give evidence of any fact, the Judge may ask the party proposing to give the evidence in what manner the alleged fact, if proved, would be relevant; and the Judge shall admit the evidence if he thinks that the fact, if proved, would be relevant, and not otherwise. If the fact proposed to be proved is one of which evidence is admissible only upon proof of some other fact, such last-mentioned fact must be proved before evidence is given of the fact first mentioned, unless the party undertakes to give proof of such fact, and the Court is satisfied with such undertaking. If the relevancy of one alleged fact depends upon another alleged fact being first proved, the Judge may, in his discretion, either permit evidence of the first fact to be given before the second fact is proved, or require evidence to be given of the second fact before evidence is given of the first fact. Illustrations
(a) It is proposed to prove a statement about a relevant fact by a person
alleged to be dead, which statement is relevant under section 32. The fact
that the person is dead must be proved by the person proposing to prove the
statement, before evidence is given of the statement.
(b) It is proposed to prove, by a copy, the contents of a document said to be
lost. The fact that the original is lost must be proved by the person
proposing to produce the copy, before the copy is produced.
(c) A is accused of receiving stolen property knowing it to have been stolen.
It is proposed to prove that he denied the possession of the property. The
relevancy of the denial depends on the identity of the property. The Court
may, in its discretion, either require the property to be identified before
the denial of the possession is proved, or permit the denial of the possession
to be proved before the property is identified.
(d) It is proposed to prove a fact (A) which is said to have been the cause or
effect of a fact in issue. There are several intermediate facts (B, C and D)
which must be shown to exist before the fact (A) can be regarded as the cause
or effect of the fact in issue. The Court may either permit A to be proved
before B, C or D is proved, or may require proof of B, C and D before
permitting proof of A.
137. Examination-in-chief.—The examination of a witness by the party who calls him shall be called his examination-in-chief. Cross-examination.—The examination of a witness by the adverse party shall be called his cross-examination. Re-examination.—The examination of a witness, subsequent to the cross-examination by the party who called him, shall be called his re-examination.
138. Order of examinations.—Witnesses shall be first examined-in-chief, then (if the adverse party so desires) cross-examined, then (if the party calling him so desires) re-examined. The examination and cross-examination must relate to relevant facts, but the cross-examination need not be confined to the facts to which the witness testified on his examination-in-chief. Direction of re-examination.—The re-examination shall be directed to the explanation of matters referred to in cross-examination; and, if new matter is, by permission of the Court, introduced in re-examination, the adverse party may further cross-examine upon that matter.
139. Cross-examination of person called to produce a document.—A person summoned to produce a document does not become a witness by the mere fact that he produces it, and cannot be cross-examined unless and until he is called as a witness.
140. Witnesses to character.—Witnesses to character may be cross-examined and re-examined.
141. Leading questions.—Any question suggesting the answer which the person putting it wishes or expects to receive, is called a leading question.
142. When they must not be asked.—Leading questions must not, if objected to by the adverse party, be asked in an examination-in-chief, or in a re-examination, except with the permission of the Court. The Court shall permit leading questions as to matters which are introductory or undisputed, or which have, in its opinion, been already sufficiently proved.
143. When they may be asked.—Leading questions may be asked in cross-examination.
144. Evidence as to matters in writing.—Any witness may be asked, whilst under examination, whether any contract, grant or other disposition of property, as to which he is giving evidence, was not contained in a document, and if he says that it was, or if he is about to make any statement as to the contents of any document, which, in the opinion of the Court, ought to be produced, the adverse party may object to such evidence being given until such document is produced, or until facts have been proved which entitle the party who called the witness to give secondary evidence of it. Explanation.—A witness may give oral evidence of statements made by other persons about the contents of documents if such statements are in themselves relevant facts. Illustration The question is, whether A assaulted B. C deposes that he heard A say to D—"B wrote a letter accusing me of theft, and I will be revenged on him”. This statement is relevant as showing A’s motive for the assault, and evidence may be given of it, though no other evidence is given about the letter.
117145. Cross-examination as to previous statements in writing.—A witness may be cross-examined as to previous statements made by him in writing or reduced into writing, and relevant to matters in question, without such writing being shown to him, or being proved; but, if it is intended to contradict him by the writing, his attention must, before the writing can be proved, be called to those parts of it which are to be used for the purpose of contradicting him.1145. Cross-examination as to previous statements in writing.—A witness may be cross-examined as to previous statements made by him in writing or reduced into writing, and relevant to matters in question, without such writing being shown to him, or being proved; but, if it is intended to contradict him by the writing, his attention must, before the writing can be proved, be called to those parts of it which are to be used for the purpose of contradicting him."
146. Questions lawful in cross-examination.—When a witness is cross-examined, he may, in addition to the questions hereinbefore referred to, be asked any questions which tend—
(1) to test his veracity,
(2) to discover who he is and what is his position in life, or
(3) to shake his credit, by injuring his character, although the answer to
such questions might tend directly or indirectly to criminate him or might
expose or tend directly or indirectly to expose him to a penalty or
forfeiture: 1[Provided that in a prosecution for rape or attempt to commit
rape, it shall not be permissible to put questions in the cross-examination of
the prosecutrix as to her general immoral character.]
147. When witness to be compelled to answer.—If any such question relates to a matter relevant to the suit or proceeding, the provisions of section 132 shall apply thereto.
148. Court to decide when question shall be asked and when witness compelled to answer.—If any such question relates to a matter not relevant to the suit or proceeding, except in so far as it affects the credit of the witness by injuring his character, the Court shall decide whether or not the witness shall be compelled to answer it, and may, if it thinks fit, warn the witness that he is not obliged to answer it. In exercising its discretion, the Court shall have regard to the following considerations:—
(1) Such questions are proper if they are of such a nature that the truth of
the imputation conveyed by them would seriously affect the opinion of the
Court as to the credibility of the witness on the matter to which he
testifies;
(2) Such questions are improper if the imputation which they convey relates to
matters so remote in time, or of such a character, that the truth of the
imputation would not affect, or would affect in a slight degree, the opinion
of the Court as to the credibility of the witness on the matter to which he
testifies;
(3) Such questions are improper if there is a great disproportion between the
importance of the imputation made against the witness’s character and the
importance of his evidence;
(4) The Court may, if it sees fit, draw, from the witness’s refusal to answer,
the inference that the answer if given would be unfavourable.
149. Question not to be asked without reasonable grounds.—No such question as is referred to in section 148 ought to be asked, unless the person asking it has reasonable grounds for thinking that the imputation which it conveys is well-founded. Illustrations
(a) A barrister is instructed by an attorney or vakil that an important
witness is a dakait. This is a reasonable ground for asking the witness
whether he is a dakait.
(b) A pleader is informed by a person in Court that an important witness is a
dakait. The informant, on being questioned by the pleader, gives satisfactory
reasons for his statement. This is a reasonable ground for asking the witness
whether he is a dakait.
(c) A witness, of whom nothing whatever is known, is asked at random whether
he is a dakait. There are here no reasonable grounds for the question.
(d) A witness, of whom nothing whatever is known, being questioned as to his
mode of life and means of living, gives unsatisfactory answers. This may be a
reasonable ground for asking him if he is a dakait.
150. Procedure of Court in case of question being asked without reasonable grounds.—If the Court is of opinion that any such question was asked without reasonable grounds, it may, if it was asked by any barrister, pleader, vakil or attorney, report the circumstances of the case to the High Court or other authority to which such barrister, pleader, vakil or attorney is the subject in the exercise of his profession.
151. Indecent and scandalous questions.—The Court may forbid any questions or inquiries which it regards as indecent or scandalous, although such questions or inquiries may have some bearing on the questions before the Court, unless they relate to facts in issue, or to matters necessary to be known in order to determine whether or not the facts in issue existed.
152. Questions intended to insult or annoy.—The Court shall forbid any question which appears to it to be intended to insult or annoy, or which, though proper in itself, appears to the Court needlessly offensive in form.
153. Exclusion of evidence to contradict answers to questions testing veracity.—When a witness has been asked and has answered any question which is relevant to the inquiry only in so far as it tends to shake his credit by injuring his character, no evidence shall be given to contradict him; but, if he answers falsely, he may afterwards be charged with giving false evidence. Exception 1.—If a witness is asked whether he has been previously convicted of any crime and denies it, evidence may be given of his previous conviction. Exception 2.—If a witness is asked any question tending to impeach his impartiality, and answers it by denying the facts suggested, he may be contradicted. Illustrations
(a) A claim against an underwriter is resisted on the ground of fraud. The
claimant is asked whether, in a former transaction, he had not made a
fraudulent claim. He denies it. Evidence is offered to show that he did make
such a claim. The evidence is inadmissible.
(b) A witness is asked whether he was not dismissed from a situation for
dishonesty. He denies it. Evidence is offered to show that he was dismissed
for dishonesty. The evidence is not admissible.
(c) A affirms that on a certain day he saw B at Lahore. A is asked whether he
himself was not on that day at Calcutta. He denies it. Evidence is offered to
show that A was on that day at Calcutta. The evidence is admissible, not as
contradicting A on a fact which affects his credit, but as contradicting the
alleged fact that B was seen on the day in question in Lahore. In each of
these cases the witness might, if his denial was false, be charged with giving
false evidence.
(d) A is asked whether his family has not had a blood feud with the family of
B against whom he gives evidence. He denies it. He may be contradicted on the
ground that the question tends to impeach his impartiality.
154. Question by party to his own witness.—1[
(1) ] The Court may, in its discretion, permit the person who calls a witness
to put any question to him which might be put in cross-examination by the
adverse party.—1[(1)] The Court may, in its discretion, permit the person who
calls a witness to put any question to him which might be put in cross-
examination by the adverse party." 2[(2) Nothing in this section shall
disentitle the person so permitted under sub-section (1), to rely on any part
of the evidence of such witness.]
156. Questions tending to corroborate evidence of relevant fact, admissible.—When a witness whom it is intended to corroborate gives evidence of any relevant fact, he may be questioned as to any other circumstances which he observed at or near to the time or place at which such relevant fact occurred, if the Court is of opinion that such circumstances, if proved, would corroborate the testimony of the witness as to the relevant fact which he testifies. Illustration A, an accomplice, gives an account of a robbery in which he took part. He describes various incidents unconnected with the robbery which occurred on his way to and from the place where it was committed. Independent evidence of these facts may be given in order to corroborate his evidence as to the robbery itself.
157. Former statements of witness may be proved to corroborate later testimony as to same fact.—In order to corroborate the testimony of a witness, any former statement made by such witness relating to the same fact, at or about the time when the fact took place, or before any authority legally competent to investigate the fact, may be proved.
158. What matters may be proved in connection with proved statement relevant under section 32 or 33.—Whenever any statement, relevant under section 32 or 33, is proved, all matters may be proved, either in order to contradict or to corroborate it, or in order to impeach or confirm the credit of the person by whom it was made, which might have been proved if that person had been called as a witness and had denied upon cross-examination of the truth the matter suggested.
159. Refreshing memory.—A witness may, while under examination, refresh his memory by referring to any writing made by himself at the time of the transaction concerning which he is questioned, or so soon afterwards that the Court considers it likely that the transaction was at that time fresh in his memory. The witness may also refer to any such writing made by any other person, and read by the witness within the time aforesaid, if when he read it he knew it to be correct. When witness may use copy of document to refresh memory.—Whenever a witness may refresh his memory by reference to any document, he may, with the permission of the Court, refer to a copy of such document: Provided the Court be satisfied that there is sufficient reason for the non-production of the original. An expert may refresh his memory by reference to professional treatises.
160. Testimony to facts stated in document mentioned in section 159.—A witness may also testify to facts mentioned in any such document as is mentioned in section 159, although he has no specific recollection of the facts themselves, if he is sure that the facts were correctly recorded in the document. Illustration A book-keeper may testify to facts recorded by him in books regularly kept in the course of business, if he knows that the books were correctly kept, although he has forgotten the particular transactions entered.
123161. Right of adverse party as to writing used to refresh memory.—Any writing referred to under the provisions of the two last preceding sections must be produced and shown to the adverse party if he requires it; such party may, if he pleases, cross-examine the witness thereupon.1161. Right of adverse party as to writing used to refresh memory.—Any writing referred to under the provisions of the two last preceding sections must be produced and shown to the adverse party if he requires it; such party may, if he pleases, cross-examine the witness thereupon."
162. Production of documents.—A witness summoned to produce a document shall, if it is in his possession or power, bring it to the Court, notwithstanding any objection which there may be to its production or to its admissibility. The validity of any such objection shall be decided on by the Court. The Court, if it sees, fit, may inspect the document, unless it refers to matters of State, or take other evidence to enable it to determine on its admissibility. Translation of documents.—If for such a purpose it is necessary to cause any document to be translated, the Court may, if it thinks fit, direct the translator to keep the contents secret, unless the document is to be given in evidence: and, if the interpreter disobeys such direction, he shall be held to have committed an offence under section 166 of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860).
163. Giving, as evidence, of document called for and produced on notice.—When a party calls for a document which he has given the other party notice to produce, and such document is produced and inspected by the party calling for its production, he is bound to give it as evidence if the party producing it requires him to do so.
164. Using, as evidence, of document, production of which was refused on notice.—When a party refuses to produce a document which he has had notice to produce, he cannot afterwards use the document as evidence without the consent of the other party or the order of the Court. Illustration A sues B on an agreement and gives B notice to produce it. At the trial, A calls for the document and B refuses to produce it. A gives secondary evidence of its contents. B seeks to produce the document itself to contradict the secondary evidence given by A, or in order to show that the agreement is not stamped. He cannot do so.
165. Judge’s power to put questions or order production.—The Judge may, in order to discover or to obtain proper proof of relevant facts, ask any question he pleases, in any form, at any time, of any witness, or of the parties, about any fact relevant or irrelevant; and may order the production of any document or thing; and neither the parties nor their agents shall be entitled to make any objection to any such question or order, nor, without the leave of the Court, to cross-examine any witness upon any answer given in reply to any such question: Provided that the Judgment must be based upon facts declared by this Act to be relevant, and duly proved: Provided also that this section shall not authorize any Judge to compel any witness to answer any question, or to produce any document which such witness would be entitled to refuse to answer or produce under sections 121 to 131, both inclusive, if the questions were asked or the documents were called for by the adverse party; nor shall the Judge ask any question which it would be improper for any other person to ask under section 148 or 149; nor shall he dispense with primary evidence of any document, except in the cases hereinbefore excepted.
166. Power of jury or assessors to put questions.—In cases tried by jury or with assessors, the jury or assessors may put any question to the witnesses, through or by leave of the Judge, which the Judge himself might put and which he considers proper.
167. No new trial for improper admission or rejection of evidence.—The improper admission or rejection of evidence shall not be ground of itself for a new trial or reversal of any decision in any case, if it shall appear to the Court before which such objection is raised that, independently of the evidence objected to and admitted, there was sufficient evidence to justify the decision, or that, if the rejected evidence had been received, it ought not to have varied the decision.
THE INDIAN EVIDENCE ACT, 1872 SCHEDULE Enactments repealed.—[Rep. by the
Repealing Act, 1938 (1 of 1938) sec. 2 and Sch.]
1\. Cf. the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (Act 5 of 1908), sec. 2, the Indian
Penal Code (Act 45 of 1860), sec. 19; and, for a definition of “District
Judge,” the General Clauses Act, 1897 (10 of 1897), sec. 3 (17).
2\. Cf. the General Clauses Act, 1897 (10 of 1897), sec. 3 (32) and the Code
of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (Act 2 of 1974).
3\. See now the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908) as to the settlement
of issues, see Sch. I, Order XIV.
4\. Cf. the Indian Penal Code (Act 45 of 1860), sec. 29 and the General
Clauses Act, 1897 (10 of 1897), sec. 3 (18).
5\. Cf. definition of “writing in the General Clauses Act, 1897 (10 of 1897),
sec. 3 (65).
6\. Subs. by Act 21 of 2000, sec. 92 and Sch. II–1(a), for “all documents
produced for the inspection of the Court” (w.e.f. 17-10-2000).
7\. Subs. by Act 3 of 1951, sec. 3 and Sch., for the definitions of “State“
and “States”. Earlier the definitions of “State” and “States” were inserted by
the A.O. 1950.
8\. Ins. by Act 21 of 2000, sec. 92 and Sch. II–1(b) (w.e.f. 17-10-2000).
9\. Subs. by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 52(a), for “digital signature” and “Digital
Signature Certificate” respectively (w.e.f. 27-10-2009).
10\. See now the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908). tc" 1. See now the
Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908)."
11\. Subs. by the A.O. 1950, for “Queen”. tc" 1. Subs. by the A.O. 1950, for
“Queen”."
12\. Subs. by the A.O. 1950, for “Queen”. tc" 1. Subs. by the A.O. 1950, for
“Queen”."
13\. Subs. by Act 3 of 1891, sec. 1, for the original Explanation. tc" 1.
Subs. by Act 3 of 1891, sec. 1, for the original Explanation."
14\. Subs. by Act 3 of 1891, sec. 1, for Illustration (b). tc" 2. Subs. by Act
3 of 1891, sec. 1, for Illustration (b)."
15\. Ins. by Act 3 of 1891, sec. 2. tc" 1. Ins. by Act 3 of 1891, sec. 2."
16\. Subs. by Act 21 of 2000, sec. 92 and Sch. II, for “oral or documentary”
(w.e.f. 17-10-2000). tc" 1. Subs. by Act 21 of 2000, sec. 92 and Sch. II, for
“oral or documentary” (w.e.f. 17-10-2000)."
17\. Ins. by Act 21 of 2000, sec. 92 and Sch. II (w.e.f. 17-10-2000). tc" 1.
Ins. by Act 21 of 2000, sec. 92 and Sch. II (w.e.f. 17-10-2000)."
18\. For prohibition of such inducements, etc., see the Code of Criminal
Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974), section 316. tc" 2. For prohibition of such
inducements, etc., see the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974),
section 316."
19\. As to statements made to a police officer investigating a case, see the
Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974), section 162. tc" 1. As to
statements made to a police officer investigating a case, see the Code of
Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974), section 162."
20\. A Coroner has been declared to be Magistrate for the purposes of this
section, see the Coroners Act, 1871 (4 of 1871), section 20.
21\. Ins. by Act 3 of 1891, sec. 3. tc" 3. Ins. by Act 3 of 1891, sec. 3."
22\. The words "or in Burma" omitted by the A.O. 1937. tc" 4. The words \"or
in Burma\" omitted by the A.O. 1937."
23\. See now the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974). tc" 5. See now
the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974)."
24\. Ins. by Act 3 of 1891, sec. 4. tc" 1. Ins. by Act 3 of 1891, sec. 4."
25\. Ins. by Act 18 of 1872, sec. 2.
26\. Subs. by Act 21 of 2000, sec. 92 and Sch. II, for “Entries in the books
of account” (w.e.f. 17-10-2000).
27\. Subs. by the Act 21 of 2000, sec. 92 and Sch. II, for “record” (w.e.f.
17-10-2000).
28\. Subs. by the A.O. 1948, for “any Government in British India."
29\. Ins. by the A.O. 1950. tc" 3. Ins. by the A.O. 1950."
30\. The original words were "Act of the Governor General of India in Council
or of the Governors in Council of Madras or Bombay, or of the Lieutenant
Governor in Council of Bengal, or in a notification of the Government
appearing in the Gazette of India, or in the Gazette of any L.G. or in any
printed paper purporting to be the London Gazette or the Government Gazette of
any colony or possession of the Queen, is a relevant fact". This was amended
first by the Repealing and Amending Act, 1914 (10 of 1914) and then by the
A.O. 1937, the A.O. 1948 and the A.O. 1950 to read as above. tc" 4. The
original words were \"Act of the Governor General of India in Council or of
the Governors in Council of Madras or Bombay, or of the Lieutenant Governor in
Council of Bengal, or in a notification of the Government appearing in the
Gazette of India, or in the Gazette of any L.G. or in any printed paper
purporting to be the London Gazette or the Government Gazette of any colony or
possession of the Queen, is a relevant fact\". This was amended first by the
Repealing and Amending Act, 1914 (10 of 1914) and then by the A.O. 1937, the
A.O. 1948 and the A.O. 1950 to read as above."
31\. Subs. by Act 3 of 1951 sec. 3 and Sch., for "an Act of the Legislature of
Part A State or a Part C State". tc" 5. Subs. by Act 3 of 1951 sec. 3 and
Sch., for \"an Act of the Legislature of Part A State or a Part C State\"."
32\. The last para added by Act 5 of 1899, sec. 2, and omitted by Act 10 of
1914, sec. 3 and Sch. II. tc" 1. The last para added by Act 5 of 1899, sec. 2,
and omitted by Act 10 of 1914, sec. 3 and Sch. II."
33\. Subs. by Act 21 of 2000, sec. 92 and Sch. II, for section 39 (w.e.f.
17-10-2000). tc" 2. Subs. by Act 21 of 2000, sec. 92 and Sch. II, for section
39 (w.e.f. 17-10-2000)."
34\. Ins. by Act 18 of 1872, sec. 3. tc" 3. Ins. by Act 18 of 1872, sec. 3."
35\. Ins. by Act 5 of 1899, sec. 3. For discussion in Council as to whether
"finger impressions" include "thumb impressions", see Gazette of India, 1898,
Pt. VI, p. 24. tc" 2. Ins. by Act 5 of 1899, sec. 3. For discussion in Council
as to whether \"finger impressions\" include \"thumb impressions\", see
Gazette of India, 1898, Pt. VI, p. 24."
36\. Ins. by Act 18 of 1872, sec. 4. tc" 3. Ins. by Act 18 of 1872, sec. 4."
37\. Ins. by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 52(b) (w.e.f. 27-10-2009).
38\. Ins. by Act 21 of 2000, sec. 92 and Sch. II–7 (w.e.f. 17-10-2000).
39\. Subs. by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 52(c)(i), for “digital signature” (w.e.f.
27-10-2009).
40\. Subs. by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 52(c)(ii), for “Digital Signature
Certificate” (w.e.f. 27-10-2009).
41\. Subs. by Act 3 of 1891, sec. 6, for section 54. tc" 1. Subs. by Act 3 of
1891, sec. 6, for section 54."
42\. Ins. by Act 3 of 1891, sec. 7. tc" 2. Ins. by Act 3 of 1891, sec. 7."
43\. Subs. by the A.O. 1950, for para (1).
44\. Ins. by the A.O. 1950.
45\. Subs. by the A.O. 1950, for "Her Majesty's".
46\. Subs. by Act 10 of 1927, sec. 25 and Sch. I, for "or Navy".
47\. Subs. by the A.O. 1950, for para 4.
48\. Subs. by the A.O. 1948, for "Courts of British India".
49\. Subs. by Act 3 of 1951, sec. 3 and Sch., for "the States".
50\. Subs. by the A.O. 1937, for the "the G.G. or any L.G. in Council".
51\. Subs. by the A.O. 1950, "any Act of Parliament or other".
52\. Subs. by Act 21 of 2000, sec. 92 and Sch. II, for “contents of documents”
(w.e.f. 17-10-2000). tc" 1. Subs. by Act 21 of 2000, sec. 92 and Sch. II, for
“contents of documents” (w.e.f. 17-10-2000)."
53\. See section 76 infra. tc" 1. See section 76 infra."
54\. Subs. by Act 3 of 1951, sec. 3 and Sch., for “the States”. tc" 1. Subs.
by Act 3 of 1951, sec. 3 and Sch., for “the States”."
55\. Cf. the Bankers’ Books Evidence Act, 1891 (18 of 1891), section 4. tc" 2.
Cf. the Bankers’ Books Evidence Act, 1891 (18 of 1891), section 4."
56\. Ins. by Act 21 of 2000, sec. 92 and Sch. II (w.e.f. 17-10-2000). tc" 3.
Ins. by Act 21 of 2000, sec. 92 and Sch. II (w.e.f. 17-10-2000)."
57\. Ins. by Act 21 of 2000, sec. 92 and Sch. II (w.e.f. 17-10-2000). tc" 3.
Ins. by Act 21 of 2000, sec. 92 and Sch. II (w.e.f. 17-10-2000)."
58\. Ins. by Act 18 of 1872, sec. 6. tc" 1. Ins. by Act 18 of 1872, sec. 6."
59\. Ins. by Act 21 of 2000, sec. 92 and Sch. II–10 (w.e.f. 17-10-2000).
60\. Ins. by Act 31 of 1926, sec. 2.
61\. Ins. by Act 5 of 1899, sec. 3.
62\. Ins. by Act 21 of 2000, sec. 92 and Sch. II (w.e.f. 17-10-2000). tc" 2.
Ins. by Act 21 of 2000, sec. 92 and Sch. II (w.e.f. 17-10-2000)."
63\. The original words “whether of British India, or of any other part of Her
Majesty's dominions” have successively been amended by the A.O. 1948 and the
A.O. 1950 to read as above. tc" 1. The original words “whether of British
India, or of any other part of Her Majesty's dominions” have successively been
amended by the A.O. 1948 and the A.O. 1950 to read as above."
64\. Subs. by the A.O. 1950, for “in any province”. tc" 2. Subs. by the A.O.
1950, for “in any province”."
65\. A Village-officer in the Punjab has been declared for the purposes of
this Act to be a public officer having the custody of a public document—see
the Punjab Land Revenue Act, 1887 (17 of 1887), section 151(2). tc" 3. A
Village-officer in the Punjab has been declared for the purposes of this Act
to be a public officer having the custody of a public document—see the Punjab
Land Revenue Act, 1887 (17 of 1887), section 151 (2)."
66\. Subs. by the A.O. 1937, for “the Executive Government of British India”.
tc" 4. Subs. by the A.O. 1937, for “the Executive Government of British
India”."
67\. Ins. by the A.O. 1937. tc" 5. Ins. by the A.O. 1937."
68\. Subs. by the A.O. 1937, for “by order of Government”. tc" 6. Subs. by the
A.O. 1937, for “by order of Government”."
69\. The words “Her Majesty” stand unmodified see the A.O. 1950. tc" 7. The
words “Her Majesty” stand unmodified see the A.O. 1950."
70\. Subs. by the A.O. 1937, for “public Act of the Governor General of India
in Council”. tc" 1. Subs. by the A.O. 1937, for “public Act of the Governor
General of India in Council”."
71\. Subs. by the A.O. 1950, for “a Province”. tc" 2. Subs. by the A.O. 1950,
for “a Province”."
72\. Subs. by the A.O. 1950, for “a British Consul”. tc" 3. Subs. by the A.O.
1950, for “a British Consul”."
73\. Ins. by the A.O. 1948. tc" 4. Ins. by the A.O. 1948."
74\. The original word beginning from “in British India” and ending with the
words “to be genuine” have been successively amended by the A.O. 1937, A.O.
1948 and A.O. 1950 to read as above. tc" 5. The original word beginning from
“in British India” and ending with the words “to be genuine” have been
successively amended by the A.O. 1937, A.O. 1948 and A.O. 1950 to read as
above."
75\. Subs. by Act 3 of 1951, sec. 3 and Sch., for “in a Part B State”. tc" 6.
Subs. by Act 3 of 1951, sec. 3 and Sch., for “in a Part B State”."
76\. Subs. by A.O. 1937, for “the Gazette of India or the Government Gazette
of any L.G., or”. tc" 1. Subs. by A.O. 1937, for “the Gazette of India or the
Government Gazette of any L.G., or”."
77\. Ins. by the A.O. 1950. tc" 2. Ins. by the A.O. 1950."
78\. Ins. by Act 21 of 2000, sec. 92 and Sch. II (w.e.f. 17-10-2000). tc" 3.
Ins. by Act 21 of 2000, sec. 92 and Sch. II (w.e.f. 17-10-2000)."
79\. The original word “Government” has successively been amended by the A.O.
1937, A.O. 1948, Act 40 of 1949, A.O. 1950, to read as above. tc" 4. The
original word “Government” has successively been amended by the A.O. 1937,
A.O. 1948, Act 40 of 1949, A.O. 1950, to read as above."
80\. Subs. by the A.O. 1950, for “British”. tc" 1. Subs. by the A.O. 1950, for
“British”."
81\. The words “of Her Majesty, or” omitted by the A.O. 1950. tc" 2. The words
“of Her Majesty, or” omitted by the A.O. 1950."
82\. Subs. by the A.O. 1937, for “Government of India”. tc" 3. Subs. by the
A.O. 1937, for “Government of India”."
83\. Ins. by Act 21 of 2000, sec. 92 and Sch. II–13 (w.e.f. 17-10-2000).
84\. Ins. by Act 21 of 2000, sec. 92 and Sch. II–13 (w.e.f. 17-10-2000).
85\. Ins. by Act 21 of 2000, sec. 92 and Sch. II–13 (w.e.f. 17-10-2000).
86\. Subs. by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 52(g), for “Digital Signature Certificates”
(w.e.f. 27-10-2009).
87\. Subs. by A.O. 1950, for “any country not forming part”. tc" 5. Subs. by
A.O. 1950, for “any country not forming part”."
88\. The words “a Part B State or of” omitted by Act 3 of 1951, sec. 3 and
Sch.
89\. The words “Her Majesty or of” omitted by the A.O. 1950. tc" 7. The words
“Her Majesty or of” omitted by the A.O. 1950."
90\. Subs. by the A.O. 1937, for “Government of India”. tc" 8. Subs. by the
A.O. 1937, for “Government of India”."
91\. Subs. by Act 3 of 1891, sec 8, for “resident in”. tc" 9. Subs. by Act 3
of 1891, sec 8, for “resident in”."
92\. Subs. by Act 3 of 1951, sec. 3 and Sch., for “such Part B State or
country”.
93\. Subs. by Act 3 of 1951, sec. 3 and Sch., for “that State or country”.
94\. Subs. by Act 5 of 1899, sec. 4, for the para added by Act 3 of 1891, sec.
3.
95\. The words “a Part B State or” which were ins. by the A.O. 1950, omitted
by Act 3 of 1951, sec. 3 and Sch.
96\. Ins. by Act 21 of 2000, sec. 92 and Sch. II (w.e.f. 17-10-2000). tc" 3.
Ins. by Act 21 of 2000, sec. 92 and Sch. II (w.e.f. 17-10-2000)."
97\. Ins. by Act 21 of 2000, sec. 92 and Sch. II–15 (w.e.f. 17-10-2000).
98\. Subs. by Act 10 of 2009, sec. 52(h), for “digital signature” (w.e.f.
27-10-2009).
99\. Where, however, a criminal court finds that a confession or other
statements of an accused person has not been recorded in the manner
prescribed, evidence may be taken that the recorded statement was duly made
see the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974), section 463. tc" 2.
Where, however, a criminal court finds that a confession or other statements
of an accused person has not been recorded in the manner prescribed, evidence
may be taken that the recorded statement was duly made see the Code of
Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974), section 463."
100\. Subs. by Act 18 of 1872, sec. 7, for “under the Indian Succession Act”.
tc" 1. Subs. by Act 18 of 1872, sec. 7, for “under the Indian Succession
Act”."
101\. Subs. by Act 3 of 1951, sec. 3 and Sch., for “the States”. tc" 2. Subs.
by Act 3 of 1951, sec. 3 and Sch., for “the States”."
102\. Subs. by Act 18 of 1872, sec. 8, “for want of failure”. tc" 3. Subs. by
Act 18 of 1872, sec. 8, “for want of failure”."
103\. See now the Indian Succession Act, 1925 (39 of 1925), Pt. VI, Ch. VI.
tc" 1. See now the Indian Succession Act, 1925 (39 of 1925), Pt. VI, Ch. VI."
104\. Sic. In the Act as published in Gazette of India, 1872, Pt. IV, p. 1,
there is no illustration (b). tc" 1. Sic. In the Act as published in Gazette
of India, 1872, Pt. IV, p. 1, there is no illustration (b)."
105\. Subs. by Act 18 of 1872, sec. 9, for "When". tc" 1. Subs. by Act 18 of
1872, sec. 9, for \"When\"."
106\. Subs. by Act 18 of 1872, sec. 9, for "on". tc" 2. Subs. by Act 18 of
1872, sec. 9, for \"on\"."
107\. Ins. by Act 61 of 1984, sec. 20 (w.e.f. 14-7-1984). tc" 1. Ins. by Act
61 of 1984, sec. 20 (w.e.f. 14-7-1984)."
108\. Ins. by the A.O. 1937, (Pt. III of the Government of India Act, 1935
came into force on the 1st April, 1937). tc" 2. Ins. by the A.O. 1937, (Pt.
III of the Government of India Act, 1935 came into force on the 1st April,
1937)."
109\. Ins. by Act 46 of 1983, sec. 7. tc" 1. Ins. by Act 46 of 1983, sec. 7."
110\. Ins. by Act 43 of 1986, sec. 12 (w.e.f. 19-11-1986). tc" 2. Ins. by Act
43 of 1986, sec. 12 (w.e.f. 19-11-1986)."
111\. Ins. by Act 43 of 1983, sec. 6. tc" 1. Ins. by Act 43 of 1983, sec. 6."
112\. Subs. by Act 3 of 1887, sec. 1, for section 125. tc" 1. Subs. by Act 3
of 1887, sec. 1, for section 125."
113\. Subs. by Act 18 of 1872, sec. 10, for "criminal". tc" 2. Subs. by Act 18
of 1872, sec. 10, for \"criminal\"."
114\. Ins. by Act 18 of 1872, sec. 10. tc" 3. Ins. by Act 18 of 1872, sec.
10."
115\. Ins. by Act 18 of 1872, sec. 10. tc" 1. Ins. by Act 18 of 1872, sec.
10."
116\. Subs. by Act 21 of 2000, sec. 92 and Sch. II, for section 131 (w.e.f.
17-10-2000). tc" 2. Subs. by Act 21 of 2000, sec. 92 and Sch. II, for section
131 (w.e.f. 17-10-2000)."
117\. As to the application of section 145 to police-diaries, see the Code of
Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974), section 172. tc" 1. As to the
application of section 145 to police-diaries, see the Code of Criminal
Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974), section 172."
118\. Ins. by Act 4 of 2003, sec. 2 (w.r.e.f. 31-12-2002). tc" 2. Ins. by Act
4 of 2003, sec. 2 (w.r.e.f. 31-12-2002)."
119\. Section 154 renumbered as sub-section (1) thereof by Act 2 of 2006, sec.
9 (w.e.f. 16-4-2006).
120\. Ins. by Act 2 of 2006, sec. 9 (w.e.f. 16-4-2006).
121\. Subs. by Act 18 of 1872, sec. 11, for "had". tc" 1. Subs. by Act 18 of
1872, sec. 11, for \"had\"."
122\. Clause (4) omitted by Act 4 of 2003, sec. 3 (w.r.e.f. 31-12-2002).
Clause (a), before omission, stood as under: tc" 2. Clause (4) omitted by Act
4 of 2003, sec. 3 (w.r.e.f. 31-12-2002). Clause (a), before omission, stood as
under\:"
123\. As the application of section 161 to Police-Diaries, see the Code of
Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974), section 172. tc" 1. As the application
of section 161 to Police-Diaries, see the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2
of 1974), section 172."
131 (w.e.f. 17-10-2000)."
117\. As to the application of section 145 to police-diaries, see the Code of
Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974), section 172. tc" 1. As to the
application of section 145 to police-diaries, see the Code of Criminal
Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974), section 172."
118\. Ins. by Act 4 of 2003, sec. 2 (w.r.e.f. 31-12-2002). tc" 2. Ins. by Act
4 of 2003, sec. 2 (w.r.e.f. 31-12-2002)."
119\. Section 154 renumbered as sub-section (1) thereof by Act 2 of 2006, sec.
9 (w.e.f. 16-4-2006).
120\. Ins. by Act 2 of 2006, sec. 9 (w.e.f. 16-4-2006).
121\. Subs. by Act 18 of 1872, sec. 11, for "had". tc" 1. Subs. by Act 18 of
1872, sec. 11, for \"had\"."
122\. Clause (4) omitted by Act 4 of 2003, sec. 3 (w.r.e.f. 31-12-2002).
Clause (a), before omission, stood as under: tc" 2. Clause (4) omitted by Act
4 of 2003, sec. 3 (w.r.e.f. 31-12-2002). Clause (a), before omission, stood as
under\:"
or was at a specified time conscious of a particular sensation, is a fact.
(e) That a man has a certain reputation, is a fact. “Relevant”. —One fact is
said to be relevant to another when the one is connected with the other in any
of the ways referred to in the provisions of this Act relating to the
relevancy of facts. “Facts in issue”. —The expression “facts in issue” means
and includes— any fact from which, either by itself or in connection with
other facts, the existence, non-existence, nature, or extent of any right,
liability, or disability, asserted or denied in any suit or proceeding,
necessarily follows. Explanation.— Whenever, under the provisions of the law
for the time being in force relating to Civil Procedure, 3 any Court records
an issue of fact, the fact to be asserted or denied in the answer to such
issue, is a fact in issue. Illustrations A is accused of the murder of B. At
his trial the following facts may be in issue:— That A caused B's death; That
A intended to cause B's death; That A had received grave and sudden
provocation from B; That A at the time of doing the act which caused B's
death, was, by reason of unsoundness of mind, incapable of knowing its nature.
“Document”. —“Document” 4 means any matter expressed or described upon any
substance by means of letters, figures or marks, or by more than one of those
means, intended to be used, or which may be used, for the purpose of recording
that matter. Illustrations A writing 5 is a document; Words printed,
131 (w.e.f. 17-10-2000)."
117\. As to the application of section 145 to police-diaries, see the Code of
Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974), section 172. tc" 1. As to the
application of section 145 to police-diaries, see the Code of Criminal
Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974), section 172."
118\. Ins. by Act 4 of 2003, sec. 2 (w.r.e.f. 31-12-2002). tc" 2. Ins. by Act
4 of 2003, sec. 2 (w.r.e.f. 31-12-2002)."
119\. Section 154 renumbered as sub-section (1) thereof by Act 2 of 2006, sec.
9 (w.e.f. 16-4-2006).
120\. Ins. by Act 2 of 2006, sec. 9 (w.e.f. 16-4-2006).
121\. Subs. by Act 18 of 1872, sec. 11, for "had". tc" 1. Subs. by Act 18 of
1872, sec. 11, for \"had\"."
122\. Clause (4) omitted by Act 4 of 2003, sec. 3 (w.r.e.f. 31-12-2002).
Clause (a), before omission, stood as under: tc" 2. Clause (4) omitted by Act
4 of 2003, sec. 3 (w.r.e.f. 31-12-2002). Clause (a), before omission, stood as
under\:"
or was at a specified time conscious of a particular sensation, is a fact.
(e) That a man has a certain reputation, is a fact. “Relevant”. —One fact is
said to be relevant to another when the one is connected with the other in any
of the ways referred to in the provisions of this Act relating to the
relevancy of facts. “Facts in issue”. —The expression “facts in issue” means
and includes— any fact from which, either by itself or in connection with
other facts, the existence, non-existence, nature, or extent of any right,
liability, or disability, asserted or denied in any suit or proceeding,
necessarily follows. Explanation.— Whenever, under the provisions of the law
for the time being in force relating to Civil Procedure, 3 any Court records
an issue of fact, the fact to be asserted or denied in the answer to such
issue, is a fact in issue. Illustrations A is accused of the murder of B. At
his trial the following facts may be in issue:— That A caused B's death; That
A intended to cause B's death; That A had received grave and sudden
provocation from B; That A at the time of doing the act which caused B's
death, was, by reason of unsoundness of mind, incapable of knowing its nature.
“Document”. —“Document” 4 means any matter expressed or described upon any
substance by means of letters, figures or marks, or by more than one of those
means, intended to be used, or which may be used, for the purpose of recording
that matter. Illustrations A writing 5 is a document; Words printed,
131 (w.e.f. 17-10-2000)."
117\. As to the application of section 145 to police-diaries, see the Code of
Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974), section 172. tc" 1. As to the
application of section 145 to police-diaries, see the Code of Criminal
Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974), section 172."
118\. Ins. by Act 4 of 2003, sec. 2 (w.r.e.f. 31-12-2002). tc" 2. Ins. by Act
4 of 2003, sec. 2 (w.r.e.f. 31-12-2002)."
119\. Section 154 renumbered as sub-section (1) thereof by Act 2 of 2006, sec.
9 (w.e.f. 16-4-2006).
120\. Ins. by Act 2 of 2006, sec. 9 (w.e.f. 16-4-2006).
121\. Subs. by Act 18 of 1872, sec. 11, for "had". tc" 1. Subs. by Act 18 of
1872, sec. 11, for \"had\"."
122\. Clause (4) omitted by Act 4 of 2003, sec. 3 (w.r.e.f. 31-12-2002).
Clause (a), before omission, stood as under: tc" 2. Clause (4) omitted by Act
4 of 2003, sec. 3 (w.r.e.f. 31-12-2002). Clause (a), before omission, stood as
under\:"
or was at a specified time conscious of a particular sensation, is a fact.
(e) That a man has a certain reputation, is a fact. “Relevant”. —One fact is
said to be relevant to another when the one is connected with the other in any
of the ways referred to in the provisions of this Act relating to the
relevancy of facts. “Facts in issue”. —The expression “facts in issue” means
and includes— any fact from which, either by itself or in connection with
other facts, the existence, non-existence, nature, or extent of any right,
liability, or disability, asserted or denied in any suit or proceeding,
necessarily follows. Explanation.— Whenever, under the provisions of the law
for the time being in force relating to Civil Procedure, 3 any Court records
an issue of fact, the fact to be asserted or denied in the answer to such
issue, is a fact in issue. Illustrations A is accused of the murder of B. At
his trial the following facts may be in issue:— That A caused B's death; That
A intended to cause B's death; That A had received grave and sudden
provocation from B; That A at the time of doing the act which caused B's
death, was, by reason of unsoundness of mind, incapable of knowing its nature.
“Document”. —“Document” 4 means any matter expressed or described upon any
substance by means of letters, figures or marks, or by more than one of those
means, intended to be used, or which may be used, for the purpose of recording
that matter. Illustrations A writing 5 is a document; Words printed,
lithographed or photographed are documents; A map or plan is a document; An
inscription on a metal plate or stone is a document; A caricature is a
document. “Evidence” .— “ Evidence” means and includes—
(1) all statements which the Court permits or requires to be made before it by
witnesses, in relation to matters of fact under inquiry, such statements are
called oral evidence;
(2) 6 [all documents including electronic records produced for the inspection
of the Court], such documents are called documentary evidence. “Proved” .—A
fact is said to be proved when, after considering the matters before it, the
Court either believes it to exist, or considers its existence so probable that
a prudent man ought, under the circumstances of the particular case, to act
131 (w.e.f. 17-10-2000)."
117\. As to the application of section 145 to police-diaries, see the Code of
Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974), section 172. tc" 1. As to the
application of section 145 to police-diaries, see the Code of Criminal
Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974), section 172."
118\. Ins. by Act 4 of 2003, sec. 2 (w.r.e.f. 31-12-2002). tc" 2. Ins. by Act
4 of 2003, sec. 2 (w.r.e.f. 31-12-2002)."
119\. Section 154 renumbered as sub-section (1) thereof by Act 2 of 2006, sec.
9 (w.e.f. 16-4-2006).
120\. Ins. by Act 2 of 2006, sec. 9 (w.e.f. 16-4-2006).
121\. Subs. by Act 18 of 1872, sec. 11, for "had". tc" 1. Subs. by Act 18 of
1872, sec. 11, for \"had\"."
122\. Clause (4) omitted by Act 4 of 2003, sec. 3 (w.r.e.f. 31-12-2002).
Clause (a), before omission, stood as under: tc" 2. Clause (4) omitted by Act
4 of 2003, sec. 3 (w.r.e.f. 31-12-2002). Clause (a), before omission, stood as
under\:"
or was at a specified time conscious of a particular sensation, is a fact.
(e) That a man has a certain reputation, is a fact. “Relevant”. —One fact is
said to be relevant to another when the one is connected with the other in any
of the ways referred to in the provisions of this Act relating to the
relevancy of facts. “Facts in issue”. —The expression “facts in issue” means
and includes— any fact from which, either by itself or in connection with
other facts, the existence, non-existence, nature, or extent of any right,
liability, or disability, asserted or denied in any suit or proceeding,
necessarily follows. Explanation.— Whenever, under the provisions of the law
for the time being in force relating to Civil Procedure, 3 any Court records
an issue of fact, the fact to be asserted or denied in the answer to such
issue, is a fact in issue. Illustrations A is accused of the murder of B. At
his trial the following facts may be in issue:— That A caused B's death; That
A intended to cause B's death; That A had received grave and sudden
provocation from B; That A at the time of doing the act which caused B's
death, was, by reason of unsoundness of mind, incapable of knowing its nature.
“Document”. —“Document” 4 means any matter expressed or described upon any
substance by means of letters, figures or marks, or by more than one of those
means, intended to be used, or which may be used, for the purpose of recording
that matter. Illustrations A writing 5 is a document; Words printed,
lithographed or photographed are documents; A map or plan is a document; An
inscription on a metal plate or stone is a document; A caricature is a
document. “Evidence” .— “ Evidence” means and includes—
(1) all statements which the Court permits or requires to be made before it by
witnesses, in relation to matters of fact under inquiry, such statements are
called oral evidence;
(2) 6 [all documents including electronic records produced for the inspection
of the Court], such documents are called documentary evidence. “Proved” .—A
fact is said to be proved when, after considering the matters before it, the
Court either believes it to exist, or considers its existence so probable that
a prudent man ought, under the circumstances of the particular case, to act
131 (w.e.f. 17-10-2000)."
117\. As to the application of section 145 to police-diaries, see the Code of
Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974), section 172. tc" 1. As to the
application of section 145 to police-diaries, see the Code of Criminal
Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974), section 172."
118\. Ins. by Act 4 of 2003, sec. 2 (w.r.e.f. 31-12-2002). tc" 2. Ins. by Act
4 of 2003, sec. 2 (w.r.e.f. 31-12-2002)."
119\. Section 154 renumbered as sub-section (1) thereof by Act 2 of 2006, sec.
9 (w.e.f. 16-4-2006).
120\. Ins. by Act 2 of 2006, sec. 9 (w.e.f. 16-4-2006).
121\. Subs. by Act 18 of 1872, sec. 11, for "had". tc" 1. Subs. by Act 18 of
1872, sec. 11, for \"had\"."
122\. Clause (4) omitted by Act 4 of 2003, sec. 3 (w.r.e.f. 31-12-2002).
Clause (a), before omission, stood as under: tc" 2. Clause (4) omitted by Act
4 of 2003, sec. 3 (w.r.e.f. 31-12-2002). Clause (a), before omission, stood as
under\:"
