Central Government Act
Section 10 in The Income- Tax Act, 1995
10\. Incomes not included in total income In computing the total income of a
previous year of any person, any income falling within any of the following
clauses shall not be included-
(1) agricultural income;
(2) 1 subject to the provisions of sub- section (2) of section 64,] any sum
received by an individual as a member of a Hindu undivided family, where such
sum has been paid out of the income of the family, or, in the case of any
impartible estate, where such sum has been paid out of the income of the
estate belonging to the family;
(2A) 2 in the case of a person being a partner of a firm which is separately
assessed as such, his share in the total income of the firm. Explanation.- For
the purposes of this clause, the share of a partner in the total income of a
firm separately assessed as such shall, notwithstanding anything contained in
any other law, be an amount which bears to the total income of the firm the
same proportion as the amount of his share in the profits of the firm in
accordance with the partnership deed bears to such profits;]
(3) 3 any receipts which are of a casual and non- recurring nature, 4 to the
extent such receipts do not exceed five thousand rupees in the aggregate:] 5
Rubber Act, 1947 (24 of 1947 ),
(ii) in relation to coffee, the Coffee Board constituted under section 4 of
the Coffee Act, 1942 (7 of 1942 ),
(iii) in relation to cardamom, the Spices Board constituted under section 3 of
the Spices Board Act, 1986 (10 of 1986 ),
(iv) in relation to any other commodity specified under this clause, any Board
or other authority established under any law for the time being in force which
the Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, specify
in this behalf.]
1\. Inserted by the Taxation Laws (Amendment) Act, 1970, w. r. e. f. 1- 4-
1969.
4\. Inserted by the Finance Act, 1984, w. e. f. 1- 4- 1985.
5\. Substituted for" Income- tax" by the Direct Tax Laws (Amendment) Act,
1987, w. e. f. 1- 4- 1988.
6\. Ibid.
7\. Inserted by the Finance Act, 1988, w. e. f. 1- 4- 1989.
extent such receipts do not exceed five thousand rupees in the aggregate:] 5
Provided that where such receipts relate to winnings from races including
horse races, the provisions of this clause shall have effect as if for the
words" five thousand rupees", the words" two thousand five hundred rupees" had
been substituted: Provided further that this clause shall not apply to-
(i) capital gains chargeable under the provisions of section 45; or
1\. Inserted by the Taxation Laws (Amendment) Act, 1970 w. e. f. 1- 4- 1971
2\. Inserted by the Finance Act, 1992, w. e. f. 1- 4- 1993. Earlier, clause
(2A) was inserted by the Direct Tax Laws (Amendment) Act, 1987, w. e. f. 1- 4-
1989 but was omitted by the Direct Tax Laws (Amendment) Act, 1989, with effect
from the same date.
3\. Substituted by the Finance Act, 1972, w. e. f. 14- 1972. Section 59 of the
said Finance Act has made the following special provision in this regard:" 59.
Certain casual and non- recurring receipts not to be included in the total
income for the assessment year 1972 - 73.- Notwithstanding the amendments made
by this Act to the Income- tax Act, in computing, in the case of any person,
the total income of a previous year relevant to the assessment year commencing
on the 1st day of April, 1972, any income falling within clause (3) of section
10 of the Income- tax Act as it stood immediately before the 1st day of April,
1972, shall not be included."
4\. Substituted for' not being winnings from lotteries, to the extent such
receipts do not exceed one thousand rupees in the aggregate' by the Finance
Act, 1986, w. e. f. 1- 4- 1987.
5\. Substituted for' Provided that' by the Finance Act, 1992, w. e. f. 1- 4-
1992.
(ii) receipts arising from business or the exercise of a profession or
occupation; or
(iii) receipts by way of addition to the remuneration of an employee;] I[]
(4) 3 (i) in the case of a non- resident, any income by way of interest on
1\. The word' or' omitted by the Finance Act, 1992, w. e. f. 1- 4- 1992.
Earlier, it was inserted by the Finance (No. 2) Act, 1991, w. e. f. 1- 10-
1991
2\. Omitted by the Finance Act, 1992, w. e. f. 1- 4- 1992. Prior to the
omission, clause (iv), as inserted by the Finance (No. 2) Act, 1991, w. e. f.
1- 10- 1991, read as under:" (iv) winnings from races including horse races;"
3\. Substituted for clauses (4) and (4A) by the Direct Tax Laws (Amendment)
Act, 1987, w. e. f. 1- 4- 1989. Prior to the substitution, clause (4), as
amended by the Finance Act, 1964, w. e. f. 1- 4- 1964, and clause (4A), as
inserted by the Finance Act, 1964, w. e. f. 1- 4- 1965; amended by the Finance
Act, 1968, w. e. f. 1- 4- 1969 and substituted by the Finance Act, 1982, w. e.
f. 1- 4- 1982, read as under:--
such securities or bonds as the Central Government may, by notification in the
Official Gazette, specify in this behalf, including income by way of premium
on the redemption of such bonds;
(ii) 1 in the case of an individual, any income by way of interest on moneys
standing to his credit in a Non- Resident (External) Account in any bank in
India in accordance with the Foreign Exchange Regulation Act, 1973 (46 of 1973
), and the rules made thereunder: Provided that such individual is a person
resident outside India as defined in clause (q) of section 23 of the said Act
or is a person who has been permitted by the Reserve Bank of India to maintain
the aforesaid Account;]
999999\. --" (4) in the case of a non- resident, any income from interest on
such securities as the Central Government may, by notification in the Official
Gazette, specify in this behalf, or any income from interest on, or from
premium on the redemption of, any bonds issued by the Central Government under
a loan agreement between the Central Government and the International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development or under a loan agreement between the Central
Government and the Development Loan Fund of the United States of America or by
any industrial undertaking or financial corporation in India under a loan
agreement with the said Bank or Fund, as the case may be, which is guaranteed
by the Central Government; (4A) in the case of a per- son resident outside
India, any income from interest on moneys standing to his credit in a Non-
Resident (External) Account in any bank in India in accordance with the
Foreign Exchange Regulation Act, 1973 (46 of 1973 ), and any rules made
thereunder. Explanation.- In this clause,' person resident outside India"
shall have the meaning assigned to it in clause (q) of section 2 of the
Foreign Exchange Regulation Act, 1973 (46 of 1973 );"
1\. Substituted by the Finance (No. 2) Act, 1991, w. e. f. 1- 4- 1991 Prior to
the substitution, sub- clause (ii) read as under:" (ii) in the case of an
individual, who is a person resident outside India as defined in clause (q) of
section 2 of the Foreign Exchange Regulation Act, 1973 (46 of 1973 ), any
income by way of interest on moneys standing to his credit in a Non- Resident
(External) Account in any bank in India in accordance with the said Act and
the rules made thereunder;"
August, 1990 would be eligible for exemption under section 10 (4) (ii) in
respect of NRE FCNR accounts maintained upto 30th June, 1991 [ (4A)
Substituted by clause 10 (4) (ii), supra, by the Direct Tax Laws (Amendment)
Act, 1987 with effect from 1 April, 1989 .]
(4B) 1 in the case of an individual.. being a citizen of India or a person of
Indian origin, who is a non- resident, any income from interest on such
savings certificates issued by the- Central Government as that Government may,
by notification in the Official Gazette, specify in this behalf: Provided that
the individual has subscribed to such certificates in convertible foreign
exchange remitted from a country outside India in accordance with the
provisions of the Foreign Exchange Regulation Act, 1973 (46 of 1973 ), and any
rules made thereunder. Explanation.- For the purposes of this clause,-
(a) a per- son shall be deemed to be of Indian origin if he, or either of his
parents or any of his grand- parents, was born in undivided India;
(b) " convertible foreign exchange" means foreign exchange which is for the
time being treated by the Reserve Bank of India as convertible foreign
exchange for the purposes of the Foreign Exchange Regulation Act, 1973 (46 of
1973 ), and any rules made thereunder;]
(5) 2 ' in the case of an individual, the value of any travel concession or
1\. Inserted by the Finance Act, 1982, w. e. f. 1- 4- 1983.
2\. Substituted by the Direct Tax Laws (Second Amendment) Act, 1989, w. r. e.
f. 1- 4- 1989. Prior to the substitution, clause (5), as substituted by the
Taxation Laws (Amendment) Act, 1970, w. r. e. f. 14- 1962 and amended by the
Finance Act, 1975, w. e. f. 14- 1975, read as under:" (5) subject to such
conditions as the Central Government may prescribe, in the case of an
individual being a citizen of India,- (i) in relation to any assessment year
not being an assessment year commencing after the 1st day of April, 1970, the
value of any travel concession or assistance received by or due to such
individual,- (a) from his employer for himself, his spouse and children, in
connection with his proceeding on leave to his home- district in India; (b)
from his employer or former employer for himself, his spouse and children, in
connection with his proceeding to his home- district in India after retirement
from service or after the termination of his service; (ii) in relation to any
other assessment year, the value of any travel concession or assistance
received by or due to such individual,- (a) from his employer for himself and
his family, in connection with his proceeding on leave to any place in India;
(b) from his employer or former employer for himself, and his family, in
connection with his proceeding to any place in India after retirement from
service or after the termination of his service: Provided that the amount
exempt under item (a) or item (b) of this sub- clause shall not, except in
such cases and under such circumstances, as may be prescribed, having regard
to the travel concession or assistance granted to the employees of the Central
Government, exceed the value of the travel concession or assistance which
would have been received by or due to the individual in connection with his
proceeding to his home district in India on leave or, as the case may be,
after retirement from service--
assistance received by, or due to, him,-
(a) from his employer for himself and his family, in connection with his
proceeding on leave to any place in India;
(b) from his employer or former employer for himself and his family, in
connection with his proceeding to any place in India after retirement from
service or after the termination of his service, subject to such conditions as
may be prescribed (including conditions as to number of journeys and the
amount which shall be exempt per head) having regard to the travel concession
or assistance granted to the employees of the Central Government: Provided
that the amount exempt under this clause shall in no case exceed the amount of
expenses actually incurred for the purpose of such travel. Explanation.- For
the purposes of this clause," family", in relation to an individual, means-
(i) the spouse and children of the individual; and
(ii) the parents, brothers and sisters of the individual or any of them,
wholly or mainly dependent on the individual;] 2 Home district: Meaning.- The
following criteria have been laid down for determining home district for the
purposes of section 10 (5):
999999\. -- or after the termination of his service. Explanation.- For the
purposes of this sub- clause," family", in relation to an individual, means-
(i) the spouse and children of the individual; and (ii) the parents, brothers
and sisters of the individual or any of them, wholly or mainly dependent on
the individual." The new clause (5) substituted by the Direct Tax Laws
(Amendment) Act, 1987 w. e. f. 1- 4- 1989 was again substituted by the Direct
Tax Laws (Second Amendment) Act, 1989 with effect from the same date making
the earlier amendment of academic interest only.
(a) the place declared by the assessee is one which requires his physical
presence at intervals, for discharging various domestic or social obligations
and if so, after his entry into service he had been visiting that place
frequently; or
(b) the assessee owns residential property in the place or is a member of the
joint family having such property there; or
(c) his near relations are resident in that place; or
(d) prior to his entry into service he had been living there for some years.
If any of these conditions is satisfied, the assessee may be allowed to claim
a particular place as his home district.
(5A) 1 in the case of an individual who is not a citizen of India and is a
non- resident, who comes to India solely in connection with the shooting of a
cinematograph film in India by the individual, firm or company referred to in
clause (d) of the Explanation to clause (i) of sub- section (1) of section 9,
any remuneration received by him for rendering any service in connection with
such shooting;]
(5B) 2 in the case of an individual who renders services as a technician in
the employment (commencing from a date after the 31st day of March, 1993 ) of
the Government or of a local authority or of any corporation set up under any
special law or of any such institution or body established in India for
carrying on scientific research as is approved for the purposes of this clause
or sub- clause (viia) of clause (6) by the prescribed authority or in any
business carried on in India and the individual was not resident in India in
any of the four financial years immediately preceding the financial year in
which he arrived in India and the tax on his income for such services
chargeable under the head" Salaries" is paid to the Central Government by the
employer (which tax, in the case of an employer, being a company, may be paid
notwithstanding anything contained in section 200 of the Companies Act, 19563)
(1 of 1956 ), the tax so paid by the employer for a period not exceeding
forty- eight months commencing from the date of his arrival in India: Provided
that the Central Government may, if it considers it necessary or expedient in
the public interest so to do, waive the condition relating to non- residence
in India as specified in this clause in the case of any individual who is
employed in India for designing, erection or commissioning of machinery or
plant or supervising activities connected with such designing, erection or
commissioning. Explanation.- For the purposes of this clause," technician"
means a person having specialised knowledge and experience in-
(i) constructional or manufacturing operations, or in mining or in the
generation of electricity or any other form of power, or
(ii) agriculture, animal husbandry, dairy farming, deep sea fishing or ship
building, or
(iii) such other field as the Central Government may, having regard to
availability of Indians having specialised knowledge and
1\. Inserted by the Taxation Laws (Amendment) Act, 1984, w. r. e. f. 1- 4-
1982.
2\. Inserted by the Finance Act, 1993, w. e. f. 1- 4- 1994.
experience therein, the needs of the country and other relevant circumstances,
by notification' in the Official Gazette, specify, who is employed in India in
a capacity in which such specialised knowledge and experience are actually
utilised;]
(6) in the case of an individual who is not a citizen of India,-
(i) 2 subject to such conditions as the Central Government may prescribe,
passage moneys or the value of any free or concessional passage received by or
due to such individual-
(a) from his employer, for himself, his spouse and children, in connection
with his proceeding on home leave out of India;
(aa) 4 from his employer, for his children having full time education in any
educational institution outside India, in connection with their proceeding to
India during vacation;]
(b) from his employer or former employer for himself, his spouse and children,
in connection with his proceeding to his home country out of India after
retirement from service in India or after the termination of such service;]
(ii) 5 the remuneration received by him as an official, by whatever name
1\. The fields of (i) grading and evaluation of diamonds for diamond export or
import trade; (ii) cookery; and (iii) information technology including
computer architecture systems platforms and associated technology, software
development process and tools have been specified:
2\. Substituted by the Taxation Laws (Amendment) Act, 1970, w. r. e. f 1- 4-
1962.
4\. Inserted by the Finance (No. 2) Act, 1977, w. r. e. f. 1- 4- 1972.
5\. Substituted for sub- clauses (ii) to (v) by the Finance Act, 1988, w. e.
f. 1- 4- 1989. Prior to the substitution, sub- clauses (ii) to (v) read as
under:" (ii) the remuneration received by him as ambassador, high
commissioner, envoy, minister, charged affaires, commissioner, counsellor or
the secretary, adviser or attache of an embassy, high commission, legation or
commission of a foreign State, for service in such capacity; (iii) the
remuneration received by him as a consul de carrier, whether called a consul
general, consul, vice- consul, consular agent, pro- consul or by any other
name, of a foreign State for service in such capacity; (iv) the remuneration
received by him as a trade commissioner or other official representative in
India of the Government of a foreign State (not holding office as such in an
honorary capacity), if the remuneration of the corresponding officials, if
any, of the Government resident for similar purposes in the country concerned
enjoys a similar exemption in that country; (v) the remuneration received by
him as a member of the staff of any of the officials referred to in clause
(ii), clause (iii) or clause (iv), if the member- (a) is a subject of the
country represented-, (b) is not engaged in any business or profession or
employment in India otherwise than as a member of such staff; and further,
where the individual is a member of the staff of any official referred to in
clause (iv) if the country represented has made corresponding provisions for
similar exemptions in the case of members of the staff of the corresponding
officials of the Government;".
called, of an embassy, high commission, legation, commission, consulate or the
trade representation of a foreign State, or as a member of the staff of any of
these officials, for service in such capacity: Provided that the remuneration
received by him as trade commissioner or other official representative in
India of the Government of a foreign State (not holding office as such in an
honorary capacity), or as a member of the staff of any of those officials,
shall be exempt only if the remuneration of the corresponding officials or, as
the case may be, members of the staff, if any, of the Government resident for
similar purposes in the country concerned enjoys a similar exemption in that
country: Provided further that such members of the staff are subjects of the
country represented and are not engaged in any business or profession or
employment in India otherwise than as members of such staff;]
(vi) the remuneration received by him as an employee of a foreign enterprise
for services rendered by him during his stay in India, provided the following
conditions are fulfilled-
(a) the foreign enterprise is not engaged in any trade or business in India;
(b) his stay in India does not exceed in the aggregate a period of ninety days
in such previous year; and
(c) such remuneration is not liable to be deducted from the income of the
employer chargeable under this Act;
(via) 1 the remuneration received by him as an employee of, or a consultant
to, an institution or association or a body established or formed outside
India solely for philanthropic purposes, for services rendered by him in India
in connection with such purposes, provided that such institution or
association or body and the purposes for which his services are rendered in
India are approved by the Central Government;]
(Vii) 2 Omitted by the Finance Act, 1993 , w. e. f 1- 4- 1993 .]
1\. Inserted by the Taxation Laws (Amendment) Act, 1975, w. e. f. 1- 10- 1975.
2\. Prior to the omission, sub- clause (vii), as originally enacted and
amended by the Finance Act, 1964, w. e. f. 1- 4- 1964; Finance Act, 1965, w.
e. f. 1- 4- 1965 and the Taxation Laws (Amendment) Act, 1970, w. e. f. 1- 4-
1971, read as under:" (vii) the remuneration due to or received by him
chargeable under the head' Salaries' for services rendered as a technician in
the employment (commencing from a date before the 1st day of April, 1971 ) of
the Government or of a local authority or of any corporation set up under any
special law or in any business carried on in India, if he was not resident in
any of the four financial years immediately preceding the financial year in
which he arrived in India to the extent mentioned below- (a) where his
contract of service is approved by the Central Government before the
commencement of his service or within one year of such commencement- (i) in
the case of a technician who has special knowledge and experience in
industrial or business management techniques, such remuneration due to or
received by him during the period of six--
(viia) 1 ' where such individual renders services as a technician in the
employment 3 ] of the Government or of a local authority or of any corporation
set up under any special law or of any such institution or body established in
India for carrying on scientific research as is approved for the purposes of
this sub- clause by the prescribed authority or in any business carried on in
India and 4 the individual was not resident in India in any of the four
financial years immediately preceding the financial year in which he arrived
in India,] the remuneration for such services due to or received by him, which
is chargeable under the head" Salaries", to the extent mentioned below,
namely:-
999999\. -- months commencing from the date of his arrival in India; (ii) in
the case of any other technician, such remuneration due to or received by him
during the thirty- six months commencing from the date of his arrival in
India, and where any such person continues with the approval of the Central
Government obtained before the 1st day of October of the relevant assessment
year to remain in employment in India after the expiry of the thirty- six
months aforesaid and the tax on his income chargeable under the head'
Salaries' is paid by the employer to the Central Government which tax in the
case of an employer being a company may be paid notwithstanding anything
contained in section 200 of the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956 ), the tax so
paid by the employer for a period not exceeding sixty months following the
expiry of the thirty- six months aforesaid; (b) in any other case, not being
the case of a technician who has special knowledge and experience in
industrial or business management techniques, such remuneration due to or
received by him for the period of three hundred and sixty- five days in all
commencing from the date of his arrival in India. Explanation.- For the
purposes of this sub- clause,' Technician' means a person having specialised
knowledge and experience in- (i) constructional or manufacturing operations,
or in mining or in the generation or distribution of electricity or any other
form of power, or (ii) industrial or business management techniques, who is
employed in India in a capacity in which such specialised knowledge and
experience are actually utilised;".
1\. Inserted by the Taxation Laws (Amendment) Act, 1970, w. e. f. 1- 4-
3 The words' (commencing from a date after the 31st day of March, 1971 )"
omitted by the Finance Act, 1988 , w. e. f. 1- 4- 1988 . 4 Substituted for"
the following conditions are fulfilled, namely, that-
(1) the individual was not resident in India in any of the four financial
years immediately preceding the financial year in which he arrived in India,
and
(2) the contract of his service in India is approved by the Central
Government, the application for such approval having been made to that
Government before the commencement of such service or within six months of
such commencement," by the Finance Act, 1992 , w. e. f. 1- 6- 1992 .
(1) 1 where such services commence from a date after the 31st day of March,
1971 but before the 1st day of April, 1988 ,-
(A) such remuneration due to or received by him] during the period of twenty-
four months commencing from the date of his arrival in India, in so far as
such remuneration does not exceed an amount calculated at the rate of four
thousand rupees per month, and where the tax on the excess, if any, of such
remuneration for the period aforesaid over the amount so calculated is paid to
the Central Government, by the employer[ which tax, in the case of an
employer, being a company, may be paid notwithstanding anything contained in
section 200 of the Companies Act, 1956 2 (1 of 1956 )], also the tax so paid
by the employer; and
(B) where he continues, with the approval of the Central Government obtained
before the 1st day of October of the relevant assessment year, to remain in
employment in India after the expiry of the period of twenty- four months
aforesaid and the tax on his income chargeable under the head" Salaries" is
paid to the Central Government by the employer[ which tax, in the case of an
employer, being a company, may be paid notwithstanding anything contained in
section 200 of the Companies Act, 1956 3 (1 of 1956 )], the tax so paid by the
employer for a period not exceeding twenty- four months next following the
expiry of the first mentioned twenty- four months;
(11) 4 where such services commence from a date after the 31st day of March,
1988  5 but before the 1st day of April, 1993 ], and tax on his income
chargeable under the head" Salaries" is paid to the Central Government by the
employer[ which tax, in the case of an employer, being a company, may be paid
notwithstanding anything contained in section 200 of the Companies Act, 19566
(1 of 1956 )], the tax so paid by the employer for a period not exceeding
forty- eight months commencing from the date of his arrival in India: 7
Omitted by the Finance Act, 1992 , w. e. f 1- 6- 1992 .]]
1\. Substituted for' (A) such remuneration due to or received by him' by the
Finance Act, 1988, w. e. f. 1- 4- 1988.
3\. Ibid.
4\. Substituted for' Provided that' by the Finance Act, 1988, w. e. f 1- 4-
1988.
5\. Inserted by the Finance Act, 1993, w. e. f. 1- 4- 1993.
7\. Prior to the omission, the proviso, as inserted by the Finance Act, 1988,
w. e. f. 1- 4- 1988, read as under: [" Provided that nothing in this item
shall relate to a period exceeding twenty- four months commencing from the
date of his arrival in India if the approval of the Central Government for his
employment in India for such period is not obtained before the 1st day of
October of the relevant assessment year:"
1 Provided[] that the Central Government may, if it considers it necessary or
expedient in the public interest so to do, waive the 3 condition relating to
non- residence in India as specified in] this sub- clause in the case of any
individual who is employed in India for designing, erection or commissioning
of machinery or plant or supervising activities connected with such designing,
erection or commissioning.] Explanation.- For the purposes of this sub-
clause," technician" means a person having specialised knowledge and
experience in-
(i) constructional or manufacturing operations, or in mining or in the
generation of electricity or any other form of power, or
(ii) agriculture, animal husbandry, dairy farming, deep sea fishing or ship
building, 4 or]
(iii) 5 such other field 6 as the Central Government may, having regard to the
availability of Indians having specialised knowledge and experience therein,
the needs of the country and other relevant circumstances, by notification in
the Official Gazette, specify,] who is employed in India in a capacity in
which such specialised knowledge and experience are actually utilised;]
(viii) any income chargeable under the head" Salaries" received by or due to
any such individual being a non- resident as remuneration for services
rendered in connection with his employment on a foreign ship where his total
stay in India does not exceed in the aggregate a period of ninety days in the
previous year;
(ix) 7 " any income chargeable under the head" Salaries" received by or due to
him during the thirty- six months commencing from the date of his arrival in
India for service rendered as a professor or other teacher in a University or
other educational institution, and where any such individual continues to
remain in employment in India after the expiry of the thirty- six months
aforesaid and the tax on his income chargeable under the head" Salaries" is
paid by the University or other educational institution concerned to the
1\. Inserted by the Direct Taxes (Amendment) Act, 1974, w. r. e. f. 1- 4-
1973.
2\. The word' further' omitted by the Finance Act, 1992, w. e. f. 1- 6- 1992.
Earlier, it was Inserted by the Finance Act, 1988, w. e. f. 1- 4- 1988.
3\. Substituted for' condition specified in item (1) of by the Finance Act,
1992, w. e. f. 1- 6- 1992.
4\. Inserted by the Finance Act, 1979, w. e. f. 1- 6- 1979.
5\. Ibid.
6\. The fields of' grading and evaluation of diamonds for diamond export or
import trade';' cookery'' information technology including computer
architecture systems platforms and associated technology, software development
process and tools' have been notified:
7\. Inserted by the Finance Act, 1964, w. e. f. 1- 4- 1964.
Central Government, the tax so paid for a period not exceeding twenty- four
months following the expiry of the thirty- six months aforesaid, provided in
either case the following conditions are fulfilled, namely:-
(i) such individual was not resident in any of the four financial years
immediately preceding the financial year in which he arrived in India; and
(ii) his contract of service is approved by the Central Government-
(a) on or before the 1st day of October, 1964 , in the case of a professor or
other teacher whose service commenced before the 1st day of April, 1964 ;
(b) before the commencement of his service or within one year of such
commencement, in any other case;]
(x) 1 ' any sum due to or received by him, during the twenty- four months
commencing from the date of his arrival in India, for undertaking any research
work in India, provided the following conditions are fulfilled, namely:-
(a) the research work is undertaken in connection with a research scheme
approved in this behalf by the Central Government on or before the 1st day of
October of the relevant assessment year; and
(b) such sum is payable or paid directly or indirectly by the Government of a
foreign State or any institution or association or other body established
outside India;]
(xi) 3 the remuneration received by him as an employee of the Government of a
foreign State during his stay in India in connection with his training in any
establishment or office of, or in any undertaking owned by,-
(i) the Government; or
(ii) any company in which the entire paid- up share capital is held by the
Central Government, or any State Government or Governments, or partly by the
Central Government and partly by one or more State Governments; or
(iii) any company which is a subsidiary of a company refer- red to in item
(ii); or
(iv) any corporation established by or under a Central, State or Provincial
Act; or
(v) any society registered under the Societies Registration Act, 1860 (14 of
1860 ), or under any other corresponding law for the time being in force and
wholly financed by the Central Government, or any State Government or State
Governments, or partly by the Central Government and partly by one or more
State Governments;]
1\. Inserted by the Finance Act, 1964, w. e. f. 1- 4- 1964.
3\. Inserted by the Finance Act, 1976, w. e. f. 1- 4- 1976.
(6A) 1 where in the case of a foreign company deriving income by way of
royalty or fees for technical services received from Government or an Indian
concern in pursuance of an agreement made by the foreign company with
Government or the Indian concern after the 31st day of March, 1976  3 and,-
1\. Inserted by the Finance Act, 1983,
3\. Substituted for the following by the Finance Act, 1992, w. e. f. 1- 6-
1992:" and approved by the Central Government, the tax on such income is
payable, under the terms of such agreement, by Government or the Indian
concern to the Central Government, the tax so paid;"
(a) where the agreement relates to a matter included in the industrial policy,
for the time being in force,. of the Government of India, such agreement is in
accordance with that policy; and
(b) in any other case, the agreement is approved by the Central Government,
the tax on such income is payable, under the terms of the agreement, by
Government or the Indian concern to the Central Government, the tax so paid.
Explanation.- For the purposes of this clause 1 and clause (6B)],-
(a) " fees for technical services" shall have the same meaning as in
Explanation 2 to clause (vii) of sub- section (1) of section 9;
(b) " foreign company" shall have the same meaning as in section 80B;
(c) " royalty" shall have the same meaning as in Explanation 2 to clause (vi)
of sub- section (1) of section 9;]
(6B) 2 where in the case of a non- resident (not being a company) or of a
foreign company deriving income (not being salary, royalty or fees for
technical services) from Government or an Indian concern in pursuance of an
agreement entered into by the Central Government with the Government of a
foreign State or an international Organisation, the tax on such income is
payable by Government or the Indian concern to the Central Government under
the terms of that agreement or any other related agreement approved by the
Central Government, the tax so paid;]
(6C) any income arising to such foreign company, as the Central Government
may, by notification in the Official Gazette, specify in this behalf, by way
of fees for technical services received in pursuance of an agreement entered
into with that Government for providing services in or outside India in
projects connected with security of India;]
(7) any allowances or perquisites paid or allowed as such outside India by the
Government to a citizen of India for rendering service outside India;
(8) in the case of an individual who is assigned to, duties in India in
connection with any co- operative technical assistance programmes and projects
in accordance with an agreement entered into by the Central Government and the
Government of a foreign State (the terms whereof provide for the exemption
given by this clause)-
(a) the remuneration received by him directly or indirectly from the
Government of that foreign State for such duties, and
(b) any other income of such individual which accrues or arises outside India,
and is not deemed to accrue or arise in India, in respect of which such
individual is required to pay any income or social security tax to the
Government of that foreign State;
1\. Inserted by the Finance Act, 1988, w. e. f. 1- 4- 1988.
2\. Ibid.
3\. Inserted by the Direct Tax Laws (Amendment) Act, 1989, w. e. f. 1- 4-
1989.
(8A) 1 in the case of a consultant-
(a) any remuneration or fee received by him or it, directly or indirectly, out
of the funds made available to an international Organisation[ hereafter
referred to in this clause and clause (8B) as the agency] under a technical
assistance grant agreement between the agency and the Government of a foreign
State; and
(b) any other income which accrues or arises to him or it outside India, and
is not deemed to accrue or arise in India, in respect of which such consultant
is required to pay any income or social security tax to the Government of the
country of his or its origin. Explanation.- In this clause," consultant"
means-
(i) any individual, who is either not a citizen of India or, being a citizen
of India, is not ordinarily resident in India, or
(ii) any other person, being a non- resident, engaged by the agency for
rendering technical services in India in connection with any technical
assistance programme or project, provided the following conditions are
fulfilled, namely:- (1) the technical assistance is in accordance with an
agreement entered into by the Central Government and the agency; and (2) the
agreement relating to the engagement of the consultant is approved by the
prescribed authority 2 for the purposes of this clause;
(8B) in the case of an individual who is assigned to duties in India in
connection with any technical assistance programme and project in accordance
with an agreement entered into by the Central Government and the agency-
(a) the remuneration received by him, directly or indirectly, for such duties
from any consultant referred to in clause (8A); and
(b) any other income of such individual which accrues or arises outside India,
and is not deemed to accrue or arise in India, in respect of which such
individual is required to pay any income or social security tax to the country
of his origin, provided the following conditions are fulfilled namely:-
(i) the individual is an employee of the consultant referred to in clause (8A)
and is either not a citizen of India or, being a citizen of India, is not
ordinarily resident in India; and
(ii) the contract of service of such individual is approved by the prescribed
authority' before the commencement of his service;]
(9) the income of any member of the family of any such individual as is
referred to in clause (8) 4 or clause (8A) or, as the case may be, clause
(8B)] accompanying him to India, which accrues or arises outside India, and is
not deemed to accrue or, arise in India, in respect of which such
1\. Inserted by the Finance (No. 2) Act, 1991, w. e. f 1- 4- 1991
2\. Additional Secretary, Department of Economic Affairs, Ministry of Finance,
Government of India, in concurrence with Member (Income- tax) of the Board:
3\. Ibid.
4\. Inserted by the Finance (No. 2) Act, 1991, w. e. f 1- 4- 1991
member is required to pay any income or social security tax to the Government
of that foreign State 1 or, as the case may be, country of origin of such
member];
(10) (i) any death- cum- retirement gratuity received under the revised
Pension Rules of the Central Government or, as the case may be, the Central
Civil Services (Pension) Rules, 1972 , or under any similar scheme applicable
to the members of the civil services of the Union or holders of posts
connected with defence or of civil posts under the Union (such members or
holders being persons not governed by the said Rules) or to the members of the
all India services or to the members of the civil services of a State or
holders of civil posts under a State or to the employees of a local authority
or any payment of retiring gratuity received under the Pension Code or
Regulations applicable to the members of the defence services;
(ii) any gratuity received under the Payment of Gratuity Act, 1972 (39 of 1972
), to the extent it does not exceed an amount calculated in accordance with
the provisions of sub- sections (2) and (3) of section 43 of that Act;
(iii) any other gratuity received by an employee on his retirement or on his
becoming incapacitated prior to such retirement or on termination of his
employment, or any gratuity received by his widow, children or dependents on
his death, to the extent it does not, in either case, exceed one- half month'
s salary for each year of completed service, 5 calculated on the basis of the
average salary for the ten months immediately preceding the month in which any
such event occurs, subject to such limit as the Central Government may, by
notification in the Official Gazette, specify in this behalf having regard to
the limit applicable in this behalf to the employees of that Government]:
Provided that where any gratuities referred to in this clause are received by
an employee from more than one employer in the same previous year, the
aggregate amount exempt from income- tax under this clause 6 shall not exceed
the limit so specified]:
1\. Inserted by the Finance (No. 2) Act, 1991, w. e. f 1- 4- 1991
2\. Substituted by the Finance Act, 1974, w. e. f. 1- 4- 1975. Earlier, it was
amended by the Finance Act, 1972, w. e. f. 1- 4- 1973 and the Finance Act,
1974 itself w. r. e. f. 1- 6- 1972 1- 4- 1962.
5\. Substituted for' calculated on the basis of the average salary for the
three years immediately preceding the year in which the gratuity is paid,
subject to a maximum of thirty- six thousand rupees or twenty months' salary
so calculated, whichever is less' by the Direct Tax Laws (Amendment) Act,
1987, w. e. f. 1- 4- 1989. The italicised words were substituted for' thirty
thousand' by the Finance Act, 1983, w. r. e. f. 1- 4- 1982.
6\. Substituted for' shall not exceed thirty- six thousand rupees" by the
Direct Tax Laws (Amendment) Act, 1987, w. e. f. 1- 4- 1989. The italicised
words were substituted for" thirty thousand' by the Finance Act, 1983, w. r.
e. f. 1- 4- 1982.
Provided further that where any such gratuity or gratuities was or were
received in any one or more earlier previous years also and the whole or any
part of the amount of such gratuity or gratuities was not included in the
total income of the assessee of such previous year or years, the amount exempt
from income- tax under this clause 1 shall not exceed the limit so specified]
as reduced by the amount or, as the case may be, the aggregate amount not
included in the total income of any such previous year or years: 2 ]
Explanation.- 3 In this clause and in clause (IOAA)]," salary" shall have the
meaning assigned to it in clause (h) of rule 2 of Part A of the Fourth
Schedule;]
1\. Substituted for' shall not exceed thirty- six thousand rupees' by the
Direct Tax Laws (Amendment) Act, 1987, w. e. f. 1- 4- 1989. The italicised
words were substituted for' thirty thousand" by the Finance Act, 1983, w. r.
e. f. 1- 4- 1982.
2\. Omitted by the Direct Tax Laws (Amendment) Act, 1987, w. e. f. 1- 4- 1989.
Prior to the omission, the third and fourth provisos, as amended by the
Finance Act, 1983, w. r. e. f. read as under:" Provided also that the Central
Government may, having regard to the maximum amount which may for the time
being be exempt under sub- clause (i) increase, by notification in the
Official Gazette, the limit of thirty- six thousand rupees, for all the three
purposes for which it has been mentioned in the foregoing provisions of this
clause, up to such maximum amount: Provided also that in relation to cases in
which the event (that is to say retirement of the employee or his becoming
incapacitated or termination of his employment or his death, as the case may
be) on which gratuity is received had taken place before the 31st day of
January, 1982, the proviso immediately preceding this proviso shall not apply
and the remaining provisions of this clause shall have effect as if for the
words" thirty six thousand rupees", at the three places where they occur, the
words" thirty thousand rupees" had been substituted."
3\. Substituted for" In this clause' by the Direct Tax Laws (Amendment) Act,
1987, w. e. f. 1- 4- 1989.
3 All the three limits specified in the section will operate as cumulative
conditions and the exempt portion of the gratuity will be restricted to any of
these three limits whichever is the least. Retirement gratuity will be exempt
to the extent mentioned in the latter half of the section and the remaining
amount will be entitled to relief under section 89 1. In the case of gratuity
funds approved for the purposes of Income- tax Act a provision authorising the
payment of gratuity to an employee while he continues to remain in service
should not be allowed. The latter half of the section should be regarded as
covering the case of only a gratuity payment on the employee' s retirement or
on his becoming incapacitated or on termination of his employment or on his
death. The rules of a fund approved for the purposes of Income tax Act should
not permit the payment of gratuity in the form of annuities payable over a
specified number of years. In order to claim the exemption under the section
it is necessary that the amount of gratuity should be calculated exactly on
the basis laid down in the section.[ Letter No. 1 (1 79) 162, dated 13th
December, 1962 ] 4 The expression' termination of employment used in the
section as amended by Finance Act, 1972 covers the case of an employee whose
services come to an end due to his resignation. 5 Limit of exemption of death-
cum- retirement gratuity under section 10 (10) (iii) has been raised to Rs. 1
lakh in relation to employees who retire of become incapacitated or die on or
after 1st April, 1988 or whose employment is terminated on or after that date.
(10A) 1 (i) any payment in commutation of pension received under the Civil
Pensions (Commutation) Rules of the Central Government or under any similar
scheme applicable 2 to the members of the civil services of the Union or
holders of posts connected with defence or of civil posts under the Union
(such members or holders being persons not governed by the said Rules) or to
the members of the all- India- services or to the members of the defence
services or to the members of the civil services of a State or holders of
civil posts under a State or to the employees of a local authority] or a
corporation established by a Central, State or Provincial Act;
(ii) any payment in commutation of pension received under any scheme of any
other employer, to the extent it does not exceed-
(a) in a case where the employee receives any gratuity, the commuted value of
one- third of the pension which he is normally entitled to receive, and
(b) in any other case, the commuted value of one- half of such pension, such
commuted value being determined having regard to the age of the recipient, the
state of his health, the rate of interest and officially recognised tables of
mortality;
2\. Substituted for' to the members of the Defence Services or to the
employees of a State Government, a local authority' by the Finance Act, 1974,
w. r. e. f. 1- 4- 1962.
1 ]
(10AA) 2 (i) any payment received by an employee of the Central Government or
a State Government as the cash equivalent of the leave salary in respect of
the period of earned leave at his credit at the time of his retirement 3
whether] on superannuation or otherwise;
(ii) any payment of the nature refer- red to in sub- clause (i) received by.
an employee, other than an employee of the Central Government or a State
Government, in respect of so much of the period of earned leave at his credit
at the time of his retirement 4 [ whether] on superannuation or otherwise as
does not exceed 5 eight] months, calculated on the basis of the average salary
drawn by the employee during the period of ten months immediately preceding
his retirement 6 whether] on superannuation or otherwise, 7 subject to such
limit" as the Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette,
specify in this behalf having regard to the limit applicable in this behalf to
the employees of that Government]: Provided that where any such payments are
received by an employee from more than one employer in the same previous year,
the aggregate amount exempt from income- tax under this sub- clause 9 shall
not exceed the limit so specified]:
1\. Omitted by the Direct Tax Laws (Amendment) Act, 1987, w. e. f. 1- 4- 1989.
Prior to the omission, the proviso read as under:" Provided that the maximum
limit of payment specified in sub- clause (ii) (a) or subclause (ii) (b) shall
not apply in respect of any such payment made before the 19th day of August,
1965 ;"
2\. Inserted by the Finance Act, 1982, w. r. e. f. 1- 4- 1978.
3\. Inserted by the Taxation Laws (Amendment) Act, 1984, w. r. e. f. 1- 4-
1978.
4\. Inserted by the Taxation Laws (Amendment) Act, 1984, w. r. e. f. 1- 4-
1978.
5\. Substituted for' six' by the Direct Tax Laws (Amendment) Act, 1987, w. r.
e. f. 1- 7- 1986.
6\. Inserted by the Taxation Laws (Amendment) Act, 1984, w. r. e. f. 1- 4-
1978.
7\. Substituted for' or thirty thousand rupees, whichever is less' by the
Direct Tax Laws (Amendment) Act, 1987, w. r. e. f. 1- 7- 1986.
9\. Substituted for shall not exceed thirty thousand rupees' by the Direct Tax
Laws (Amendment) Act, 1987, w. r. e. f. 1- 7- 1986.
Provided further that where any such payment or payments was or were received
in any one or more earlier previous years also and the whole or any part of
the amount of such payment or payments was or were not included in the total
income of the assessee of such previous year or years, the amount exempt from
income- tax under this sub- clause 1 shall not exceed the limit so specified
as reduced by the amount or, as the case may be, the aggregate amount not
included in the total income of any such previous year or years: Explanation.-
For the purposes of sub- clause (ii),- 3 ] the entitlement to earned leave of
an employee shall not exceed thirty days for every year of actual service
rendered by him as an employee of the employer from whose service he has
retired;
(10B) 5 any compensation received by a workman under the Industrial Disputes
Act, 1947 (14 of 1947 ), or under any other Act or Rules, orders or
notifications issued thereunder or under any standing orders or under any
award, contract of service or otherwise, 6 at the time of his retrenchment:
Provided that the amount exempt under this clause shall not exceed-
(i) an amount calculated in accordance with the provisions of clause (b) of
section 25F of the Industrial Disputes Act, 19477 (14 of 1947 ); or
1\. Substituted for' shall not exceed thirty thousand rupees' by the Direct
Tax Laws (Amendment) Act, 1987, w. r. e. f. 1- 7- 1986.
2\. Omitted, ibid. Prior to the omission, the third and fourth provisos, as
amended by the Taxation Laws (Amendment) Act, 1984, w. r. e. f. 1- 4- 1978,
read as under:" Provided also that the Central Government may, having regard
to the maximum amount which may for the time being be exempt under sub- clause
(i), increase, by notification in the Official Gazette, the limit of thirty
thousand rupees, for all the three purposes for which it has been mentioned in
the foregoing provisions of this sub- clause, up to such maximum amount:
Provided also that in relation to an employee retiring whether on
superannuation or otherwise before the 1st day of January, 1982, the proviso
immediately preceding this proviso shall not apply and the remaining
provisions of this sub- clause shall have effect as if for the words" thirty
thousand rupees", at the three places where they occur, the words" twenty-
five thousand five hundred rupees" had been substituted.'
3\. " (i)" omitted by the Direct Tax Laws (Amendment) Act, 1987, w. r. e. f.
1- 7- 1986.
4\. Omitted, ibid. Prior to the omission, clause (ii) read as under:" (ii)'
salary' shall have the meaning assigned to it in clause (h) of rule 2 of Part
A of the Fourth Schedule;"
5\. Inserted by the Finance Act, 1975, w. e. f. 1- 4- 1976.
6\. Substituted for the following by the Finance Act, 1985, w. e. f. 1- 4-
1986:" at the time of his retrenchment, to the extent such compensation does
not exceed- (i) an amount calculated in accordance with the provisions of
clause (b) of section 25F of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947 );
or (ii) twenty thousand rupees, whichever is less."
(ii) 1 such amount, not being less than fifty thousand rupees, as the Central
Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, specify in this
behalf,] whichever is less: Provided further that the preceding proviso shall
not apply in respect of any compensation received by a workman in accordance
with any scheme which the Central Government may, having regard to the need
for extending special protection to the workmen in the undertaking to which
such scheme applies and other relevant circumstances, approve in this behalf.
Explanation.- For the purposes of this clause-
(a) compensation received by a workman at the time of the closing down of the
undertaking in which he is employed shall be deemed to be compensation
received at the time of his retrenchment;
(b) compensation received by a workman, at the time of the transfer (whether
by agreement or by operation of law) of the ownership or management of the
undertaking in which he is employed from the employer in relation to that
undertaking to a new employer, shall be deemed to be compensation received at
the time of his retrenchment if-
(i) the service of the workman has been interrupted by such transfer; or
(ii) the terms and conditions of service applicable to the workman after such
transfer are in any way less favourable to the workman than those applicable
to him immediately before the transfer; or
(iii) the new employer, is, under the terms of such transfer or otherwise,
legally not liable to pay to the workman, in the event of his retrenchment,
compensation on the basis that his service has been continuous and has not
been interrupted by the transfer;
(c) the expressions" employer" and" workman" shall have the same meanings as
in the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 2 (14 of 1947 );]
(10BB) 3 any payments made under the Bhopal Gas Leak Disaster (Processing of
Claims) Act, 1985 (21 of 1985 ) and any scheme framed thereunder except
payment made to any assessee in connection with the Bhopal gas leak disaster
to the extent such assessee has been allowed a deduction under this Act on
account of any loss or damage caused to him by such disaster;]
1\. Substituted by the Direct Tax Laws (Amendment) Act, 1987, w. e. f. 1- 4-
1989. Prior to the substitution, clause (ii) read as under." (ii) fifty
thousand rupees,"
3\. Inserted by the Finance Act, 1992, w. e. f. 14- 1992.
(10C) 1 any amount received by an employee of-
(i) a public sector company; or
(ii) any other company; or
(iii) an authority established under a Central, State or Provincial Act; or
(iv) a local authority; 2 or]
(v) 3 a co- operative society,- or
(vi) a University established or incorporated by or under a Central, State or
Provincial Act and an institution declared to be a University under section 3
of the University Grants Commission Act, 1956 4 (3 of 1956 ); or
(vii) an Indian Institute of Technology within the meaning of clause (g) of
section 3 of the Institutes of Technology Act, 1961 5 (59 of 1961 ); or
(viii) such institute of management as the Central Government may, by
notification in the Official Gazette, specify 6 in this behalf,] at the time
of his voluntary retirement in accordance with any scheme or schemes of
voluntary retirement, to the extent such amount does not exceed five lakh
rupees: Provided that the schemes of the said companies or authorities 7 [ or
societies or Universities or the Institutes referred to in sub- clauses (vii)
and (viii)], as the case may be, governing the payment of such amount are
framed in accordance with such guidelines (including inter alia criteria of
1\. Substituted by the Finance Act, 1993, w. e. f. 1- 4- 1993. Prior to the
substitution, clause (10C), as inserted by the Finance Act, 1987, w. e. f. 1-
4- 1987, read as under:" (10C) any payment received by an employee of a public
sector company at the time of his voluntary retirement in accordance with any
scheme which the Central Government may, having regard to the economic
viability of such company and other relevant circumstances, approve in this
behalf;" The following clause (10C) was substituted by the Finance Act, 1992,
w. e. f. 1- 4- 1993 but it has been substituted again, as above, without
coming into operation:" (10C) any amount received by an employee of a public
sector company or of any other company at the time of his voluntary retirement
in accordance with any scheme or schemes of voluntary retirement: Provided
that the schemes of the said companies governing the payment of such amount
are framed in accordance with such guidelines as may be prescribed for the
public sector companies or for other companies and such guidelines may, inter
alia, include criteria of economic viability and such schemes in relation to
companies (other than public sector companies) are approved by the Chief
Commissioner or, as the case may be, Director- General in this behalf;"
2\. Inserted by the Finance Act, 1994, w. e. f. 1- 4- 1995.
3\. Ibid.
6\. The Indian Institutes of Management at Ahmedabad, Bangalore, Calcutta and
Lucknow have been notified.
7\. Inserted by the Finance Act, 1994, w. e. f. 1- 4- 1995.
economic viability) as may be prescribed' and such schemes in relation to
companies, referred to in sub- clause (ii) 2 or co- operative societies
referred to in sub- clause (v)] are approved by the Chief Commissioner or, as
the case may be, Director- General in this behalf: Provided further that where
exemption has been allowed to an employee under this clause for any assessment
year, no exemption thereunder shall be allowed to him in relation to any other
assessment year;]
(10D) 3 any sum received under a life insurance policy, including the sum
allocated by way of bonus on such policy 4 other than any sum received under
sub- section (3) of section 8ODDA];]
(11) any payment from a provident fund to which the Provident Funds Act, 1925
5 (19 of 1925 ), applies 6 or from any other provident fund set up by the
Central Government and notified 7 by it in this behalf in the Official
Gazette];
(12) the accumulated balance due and becoming payable to an employee
participating in a recognised provident fund, to the extent provided in rule 8
of Part A of the Fourth Schedule;
(13) 8 any payment from an approved superannuation fund made-
(i) on the death of a beneficiary; or
(ii) to any employee in lieu of or in commutation of an annuity on his
retirement at or after a specified age or on his becoming incapacitated prior
to such retirement; or
(iii) by way of refund of contributions on the death of a beneficiary; or
(iv) by way of refund of contributions to an employee on his leaving the
service in connection with which the fund is established otherwise than by
retirement at or after a specified age or on his becoming incapacitated prior
to such retirement, to the extent to which such payment does not exceed the
contributions made prior to the commencement of this Act and any interest
thereon;]
(13A) 9 any special allowance specifically granted to an assessee by his
employer to meet expenditure actually incurred on payment of rent (by
2\. Inserted by the Finance Act, 1994, w. e. f. 1- 4- 1995.
3\. Inserted by the Finance (No. 2) Act, 1991 w. r. e. f. 1- 4- 1962.
4\. Being inserted by the Finance Act, 1995, w. e. f. 1- 4- 1996.
6\. Inserted by the Finance Act, 1968, w. e. f. 1- 4- 1969.
7\. Public Provident Fund, Scheme, 1968 has been notified under this clause:
8\. Substituted by the Finance Act, 1965, w. r. e. f. 1- 4- 1962.
9\. Inserted by the Direct Taxes (Amendment) Act, 1964, w. e. f. 6- 10- 1964.
whatever name called) in respect of residential accommodation occupied by the
assessee, to such extent 1 ] as may be prescribed having regard to the area or
place in which such accommodation is situate and other relevant
considerations.] 2 Explanation.- For the removal of doubts, it is hereby
declared that nothing contained in this clause shall apply in a case where-
(a) the residential accommodation occupied by the assessee is owned by him; or
(b) the assessee has not actually incurred expenditure on payment of rent (by
whatever name called) in respect of the residential accommodation occupied by
him;]
(14) 3 (i) For any such special allowance or benefit, not being in the nature
of a perquisite within the meaning of clause (2) of section 17, specifically
granted to meet expenses wholly, necessarily and exclusively
1\. The words' (not exceeding four hundred rupees per month)' omitted by the
Finance Act, 1986, w. e. f. 1- 4- 1987. Earlier,' four' was substituted for'
three' by the Finance Act, 1975, w. e. f. 1- 4- 1975.
2\. Inserted by the Taxation Laws (Amendment) Act, 1984, w. r. e. f. 1- 4-
1976.
3\. Substituted by the Direct Tax Laws (Amendment) Act, 1987, w. e. f. 1- 4-
1989. Prior to the substitution, clause (14), as amended by the Finance Act,
1975, w. r. e. f. 1- 4- 1962, read as under:" (14) any special allowance or
benefit, not being in the nature of an entertainment allowance or other
perquisite within the meaning of clause (2) of section 17, specifically
granted to meet expenses wholly, necessarily and exclusively incurred in the
performance of the duties of an office or employment of profit, to the extent
to which such expenses are actually incurred for that purpose. Explanation.-
For the removal of doubts, it is hereby declared that any allowance granted to
the assessee to meet his personal expenses at the place where the duties of
his office or employment of profit are ordinarily performed by him or at the
place where he ordinarily resides shall not be regarded, for the purposes of
this clause, as a special allowance granted to meet expenses wholly,
necessarily and exclusively incurred in the performance of such duties."
incurred in the performance of the duties of an office or employment of
profit, 1 as may be prescribed], to the extent to which such expenses are
actually incurred for that purpose;
(ii) any such allowance granted to the assessee either to meet his personal
expenses at the place where the duties of his office or employment of profit
are ordinarily performed by him or at the place where he ordinarily resides,
or to compensate him for the increased cost of living, 3 as may be prescribed
and to the extent as may be prescribed:] 4 Provided that nothing in sub-
clause (ii) shall apply to any allowance in the nature of personal allowance
granted to the assessee to remunerate or compensate him for performing duties
of a special nature relating to his office or employment unless such allowance
is related to the place of his posting or residence;]
(14A) 5 any income received by a public financial institution as exchange risk
premium from any person borrowing foreign currency from such institution,
provided the amount of such premium is credited by such institution to a fund
specified under clause (23E). Explanation.- For the purposes of this clause,-
(i) the expression" public financial institution" shall have the meaning
assigned to it in section 4A of the Companies Act, 1956 6 (1 of 1956 );
(ii) the expression" exchange risk premium" means a premium paid by a person
borrowing foreign currency from a public financial institution to cover the
risk which may be borne by such institution on account of fluctuations in
exchange rate of foreign currencies borrowed by such institution;]
(15)
(i) 7 income by way of interest, premium on redemption or other
1\. Substituted for' as the Central Government may, by notification in the
Official Gazette, specify' by the Finance Act, 1995, w. e. f. 1- 7- 199. 5.
3\. Substituted for" as the Central Government may, by notification in the
Official Gazette, specify, to the extent specified in the notification" by the
Finance Act, 1995, w. e. f. 1- 7- 1995.
4\. Inserted by the Direct Tax Laws (Second Amendment) Act, 1989 w. r. e. f.
1- 4- 1989.
5\. Inserted by the, Finance Act, 1989, w. e. f. 1- 4- 1989.
7\. Substituted for sub- clauses (i), (ia), (ib), (ii) and (iia) by the Direct
Tax Laws (Amendment) Act, 1987, w. e. f. 1- 4- 1989. Prior to the
substitution, sub- clause (ia), as inserted by the Taxation Laws (Amendment
and Miscellaneous Provisions) Act, 1965, w. e. f. 4- 12- 1965; sub- clause
(ib), as inserted by the Special Bearer Bonds (Immunities and Exemptions) Act,
1981, w. e. f. 12- 1- 1981; sub- clause (ii), as amended by the Finance (No.
2) Act, 1965, w. e. f. 11- 9- 1965, the Finance Act, 1979, w. e. f. 1- 4- 1980
and the Finance Act, 1987, w. r. e. f. 1- 4- 1983; and sub- clause (iia), as
inserted by the Finance Act, 1968, w. e. f. 1- 4- 1969, read as under:" (i)
monthly payment on the 15-Year Annuity Certificates issued by or under the
authority of the Central Government or such other annuity certificates issued
by or under the authority of that Government as that Government may, by
notification in the Official Gazette, specify in this behalf, to the extent to
which the amounts of the certificates do not exceed in each case the
payment on such securities, bonds, annuity certificates, savings certificates,
other certificates issued by the Central Government and deposits as the
Central Government may, by notification' in the Official Gazette, specify in
this behalf, subject to such conditions and limits as may be specified in the
said notification;] 2 (iib) 3 (in the case of an individual or a Hindu
undivided family,] interest on such Capital Investment Bonds 4 as the Central
Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, specify in this
behalf;]
(iic) 5 in the case of an individual or a Hindu undivided family, interest on
such Relief Bonds as the Central Government may, by notification in the
Official Gazette, specify 6 in this behalf;]
(iid) 7 interest on such bonds, as the Central Government may, by
notifications in the Official Gazette, specify, arising to-
(a) a non- resident Indian, being an individual owning the bonds, or
(b) any individual owning the bonds by virtue of being a nominee or survivor
of the non- resident Indian; or
999999\. -- maximum amount which is permitted to be invested therein; (ia)
annual payment on National Defence Gold Bonds, 1980; (ib) premium on the
redemption of Special Bearer Bonds, 1991; (ii) interest on Treasury Savings-
Deposit Certificates, Post Office Cash Certificates, Post Office National
Savings Certificates, National Plan Certificates, Twelve- Year National Plan
Savings Certificates and such other certificates, issued by the Central.
Government as that Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette,
specify in this behalf, interest on deposits in Post Office Savings Bank and
bonus in respect of deposits under the Post Office Cumulative Time Deposits
Rules, 1981, to the extent to which the amounts of such certificates or
deposits do not exceed in each case the maximum amount which is permitted to
be invested or deposited therein: Provided that where in the case of an
assessee the interest on deposits in a Public Account of the nature referred
to in item (6) in the Table below rule 4 of the Post Office Savings Account
Rules, 1981, exceeds two thousand two hundred and fifty rupees, the amount of
interest on such deposits that shall not be included in the total income of
the assessee under this sub- clause shall be two thousand two hundred and
fifty rupees; (iia) interest on fixed deposits under any scheme framed by the
Central Government and notified by it in this behalf in the Official Gazette,
to the extent to which the amounts of such deposits do not exceed, in each
case, the maximum amount which is permitted to be deposited therein."
2\. Inserted by the Finance Act, 1982, w. e. f. 1- 4- 1983.
3\. Inserted by the Finance Act, 1983, w. e. f. 1- 4- 1983.
5\. Inserted by the Finance Act, 1988, w. e. f. 1- 4- 1989.
6\. The 9 Relief Bonds 1987, notified by notification dated 17- 11- 1987,
shall be deemed to have been notified for the purposes of this sub- clause:
7\. Inserted by the Direct Tax Laws (Amendment) Act, 1989, w. e. f. 1- 4-
1989.
8\. The NRI Bonds, 1988 and NRI Bonds (Second Series) have been notified.
(c) any individual to whom the bonds have been gifted by the nonresident
Indian: Provided that the aforesaid bonds are purchased by a non- resident
Indian in foreign exchange and the interest and principal received in respect
of such bonds, whether on their maturity or otherwise, is not allowable to be
taken out of India: Provided further that where an individual, who is a non-
resident Indian in any previous year in which the bonds are acquired, becomes
a resident in India in any subsequent year, the provisions of this subclause
shall continue to apply in relation to such individual: Provided also that in
a case where the bonds are uncashed in a previous year prior to their maturity
by an individual who is so entitled, the provisions of this sub- clause shall
not apply to such individual in relation to the assessment year relevant to
such previous year. Explanation.- For the purposes of this sub- clause, the
expression" non- resident Indian" shall have the meaning assigned to it in
clause (e) of section 115C;]
(iii) interest on securities held by the Issue Department of the Central Bank
of Ceylon constituted under the Ceylon Monetary Law Act, 1949 ;
(iiia) 1 interest payable to any bank incorporated in a country outside India
and authorised to perform central banking functions in that country on any
deposits made by it, with the approval of the Reserve Bank of India, with any
scheduled bank. Explanation.- For the purposes of this sub- clause," scheduled
bank" shall have the meaning assigned to it in 2 clause (ii) of the
Explanation to clause (viia) of sub- section (1) of section 36];]
(iv) interest payable-
(a) by Government or a local authority on moneys borrowed by it from 3 , or
debts owed by it to,] sources outside India;
(b) by an industrial undertaking in India on moneys borrowed by it under a
loan agreement entered into with any such financial institution in a foreign
country as may be approved 4 in this behalf by the Central Government by
general or special order;
(c) 5 by an industrial undertaking in India on any moneys borrowed or debt
incurred by it in a foreign country in respect of the purchase outside India
of raw materials 6 or components] or capital plant and machinery, 7 to the
extent to which such
1\. Inserted by the Finance Act, 1985, w. e. f. 1- 4- 1985.
2\. Substituted for the Explanation to clause (iii) of sub- section (5) of
section 11" by the Direct Tax Laws (Amendment) Act, 1987, w. e. f. 1- 4- 1989.
3\. Inserted by the Finance Act, 1983, w. e. f. 1- 4- 1983.
6\. Inserted by the Finance Act, 1983, w. e. f. 1- 4- 1983.
7\. Substituted for' in any case where the loan or debt is approved by the
Central Government, having regard to its terms generally and in particular to
the terms of its repayment' by the Finance Act, 1964, w. e. f. 1- 4- 1964.
interest does not exceed the amount of interest calculated at the rate
approved by the Central Government in this behalf, having regard to the terms
of the loan or debt and its repayment]. 1 Explanation.- For the purposes of
this item," purchase of capital plant and machinery" includes the purchase of
such capital plant and machinery under a hire- purchase agreement or a lease
agreement with an option to purchase such plant and machinery;]
(d) 2 by the Industrial Finance Corporation of India established by the
Industrial Finance Corporation Act, 1948 (15 of 1948 ), or the industrial
Development Bank of India established under the Industrial Development Bank of
India Act, 1964 (18 of 1964 ), 3 or the Export- Import Bank of India
established under the Export- Import Bank of India Act, 1981 (28 of 1981 ),] 4
or the National Housing Bank established under section 3 of the National
Housing Bank Act, 1987 (53 of 1987 ),] 5 or the Small Industries Development
Bank of India established under section 3 of the Small Industries Development
Bank of India Act, 1989 (39 of 1989 ),] or the Industrial Credit and
Investment Corporation of India[ a company formed and registered under the
Indian Companies Act, 1913 (7 of 1913 )], on any moneys borrowed by it from
sources outside India, to the extent to which such interest does not exceed
the amount of interest calculated at the rate approved by the Central
Government in this behalf, having regard to the terms of the loan and its
repayment;]
(e) 6 by any other financial institution established in India or a banking
company to which the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 (10 of 1949 ), applies
(including any bank or banking institution referred to in section 51 of that
Act), on any moneys borrowed by it from sources outside India under a loan
agreement approved by the Central Government where the moneys are borrowed
either for the purpose of advancing loans to industrial undertakings in India
for purchase outside India of raw materials or capital plant and machinery or
for the purpose of importing any goods which the Central Government may
consider necessary to import in the public interest, to the extent to which
such interest does not exceed the amount of interest calculated at the rate
approved by the Central Government in this behalf, having regard to the terms
of the loan and its repayment;]
(f) 7 by an industrial undertaking in India on any moneys borrowed
1\. Inserted by the Finance Act, 1983, w. e. f. 1- 4- 1983.
2\. Inserted by the Direct Taxes (Amendment) Act, 1974, w. r. e. f. 1- 4-
1973.
3\. Inserted by the Finance Act, 1983, w. e. f. 1- 4- 1983.
4\. Inserted by the Finance (No. 2) Act, 1991, w. e. f. 1- 4- 1991
5\. Inserted by the Finance Act, 1992, w. e. f. 1- 4- 1992.
6\. Inserted by the Direct Taxes (Amendment) Act, 1974, w. r. e. f. 1- 4-
1973.
7\. Inserted by the Finance Act, 1976, w. e. f. 1- 6- 1976.
by it in foreign currency from sources outside India under a loan agreement
approved by the Central Government having regard to the need for industrial
development in India, to the extent to which such interest does not exceed the
amount of interest calculated at the rate approved by the Central Government
in this behalf, having regard to the terms of the loan and its repayment;
(fa) 1 by a scheduled bank 2 to a non- resident or to a person who is not
ordinarily resident within the meaning of sub- section (6) of section 61, on
deposits in foreign currency where the acceptance of such deposits by the bank
is approved by the Reserve Bank of India. Explanation.- For the purposes of
this item, the expression" scheduled bank" shall have the meaning assigned to
it in clause (ii) of the Explanation to clause (viia) of subsection (1) of
section 36;]
(g) 3 by a public company formed and registered in India with the main object
of carrying on the business of providing long- term finance for construction
or purchase of houses in India for residential purposes, being a company
approved by the Central Government for the purposes of clause (viii) of sub-
section (1) of section 36 on any moneys borrowed by it in foreign currency
from sources outside India under a loan agreement approved by the Central
Government, to the extent to which such interest does not exceed the amount of
interest calculated at the rate approved by the Central Government in this
behalf, having regard to the terms of the loan and its repayment.]
Explanation.- For the purposes of 4 items (f) 5 (fa)] and (g)], the
expression" foreign currency" shall have the meaning assigned to it in the
Foreign Exchange Regulation Act, 19736 (46 of 1973 );]
(h) 7 by any public sector company in respect of such bonds or debentures and
subject to such conditions, including the condition that the holder of such
bonds or debentures registers his name and the holding with that company, as
the Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, specify"
in this behalf;]
(i) 9 by Government on deposits made by an employee of the Central
1\. Inserted by the Finance (No. 2) Act, 1991, w. e. f 1- 4- 1991
2\. Inserted by the Finance Act, 1993, w. e. f. 1- 4- 1993.
3\. Inserted by the Finance Act, 1983, w. e. f. 1- 4- 1983.
4\. Substituted for this item" by the Finance Act, 1983, w. e. f. 1- 4- 1983.
5\. Inserted by the Finance (No. 2) Act, 1991, w. e. f. 1- 4- 1991
7\. Inserted by the Finance Act, 1987, w. e. f. 1- 4- 1987.
9\. Inserted by the Finance Act, 1989, w. e. f. 1- 4- 1990.
Government or a State Government, 1 2 or a public sector company 3] in
accordance with such scheme as the Central Government may, by notification in
the Official Gazette, frame in this behalf, out of the moneys due to him on
account of his retirement, whether on superannuation or otherwise.] 4
Explanation.- For the purposes of this sub- clause, the expression" industrial
undertaking" means any undertaking which is engaged in- (a) the manufacture or
processing of goods; or (b) the business of generation or distribution of
electricity or any other form of power; or (c) mining; or (d) the construction
of ships; or (e) the operation of ships or aircrafts;]
(v) 5 interest on-
(a) securities held by the Welfare Commissioner, Bhopal Gas Victims, Bhopal,
in the Reserve Bank' s SGL Account No. SLIDHO 48;
(b) deposits for the benefit of the victims of the Bhopal gas leak disaster
held in such account, with the Reserve Bank of India or with a public sector
bank, as the Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette,
specify, whether prospectively or retrospectively but in no case earlier than
the 1st day of April, 1994 in this behalf Explanation.- For the purposes of
this sub- clause, the expression" public sector bank" shall have the meaning
assigned to it in the Explanation to clause (23D);]
2\. Inserted by the Finance Act, 1990 w. e. f.
4\. Inserted by the Finance (No. 2) Act, 1991, w. e. f. 1- 4- 1991
5\. Substituted by the Finance Act, 1995, w. e. f. 1- 4- 199. 5. Prior to the
substitution, subclause (v), as inserted by the Finance Act, 1990, w. r. e. f.
1- 4- 1989, read as under:" (v) interest on securities held by the Welfare
Commissioner, Bhopal Gas Victims, Bhopal, in Reserve Bank' s SGL Account No.
SL DHO 48." Earlier, the italicised words were substituted for" Registrar,
Supreme Court" by the Finance Act, 1993, w. r. e. f. 2- 11- 1992.
3 Under section 10 (15) (ii) read with proviso (c) to section 13 of the Post
Office Savings Certificates Rules, 1960 , in the event of death of a joint
holder of the certificates, the surviving joint holder would continue to get
exemption from tax on the interest received upto the maximum amount permitted
to be held in the case of joint holdings.
(15A) 1 any payment made, by an Indian company engaged in the business of
operation of aircraft, to acquire an aircraft on lease from the Government of
a foreign State or a foreign enterprise under an agreement approved by the
Central Government in this behalf. Explanation.- For the purposes of this
clause," foreign enterprise" means a person who is a non- resident.] The
following clause (15A) is being substituted for the above clause by the
Finance Act, 1995 , w. e. f. 1- 4- 1996 :" (15A) any payment made, by an
Indian company engaged in the business of operation of aircraft, to acquire an
aircraft or an aircraft engine (other than a payment for providing spares,
facilities or services in connection with the operation of leased aircraft) on
lease from the Government of a foreign State or a foreign enterprise under an
agreement approved by the Central Government in this behalf. Explanation.- For
the purposes of this clause, the expression" foreign enterprise" means a
person who is a non- resident;"
(16) 2 scholarships granted to meet the cost of education;
(17) 3 4any income by way of-
(i) daily allowance received by any person by reason of his membership of
Parliament or of any State Legislature or of any Committee thereof; 5 1
(ii) 6 any allowance received by any person by reason of his
1\. Inserted by the Income- tax (Amendment) Act, 1989, w. e. f. 24- 1- 1989.
3\. Substituted by the Taxation Laws (Amendment and Miscellaneous Provisions)
Act, 1986, w. e. f. 1- 4- 1986. Prior to the substitution, clause (17), as
amended by the Finance Act, 1976, w. e. f. 1- 4- 1976, read as under:" (17)
any daily allowance received by any person by reason of his membership of
Parliament or of any State Legislature or of any Committee thereof or any
allowance received by a member of either House of Parliament under the Members
of Parliament (Additional Facilities) Rules, 1975 ;"
5\. The word" and" omitted by the Finance Act, 1987, w. r. e. f. 1- 4- 1986.
6\. Substituted by the Finance Act, 1987, w. r. e. f. 1- 4- 1986. Prior to the
substitution, subclause (ii), as substituted by the Taxation Laws (Amendment
and Miscellaneous Provisions) Act, 1986, w. e. f. 1- 4- 1986, read as under:"
(ii) all other allowances not exceeding rupees twelve hundred and fifty per
month in the aggregate received by any person by reason of his membership of
Parliament or of any Committee thereof, or all other allowances not exceeding
rupees six hundred per month in the aggregate received by any person by reason
of his membership of any State Legislature or any committee thereof which the
Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, specify in
this behalf;'
membership of Parliament under the Members of Parliament (Constituency
Allowance) Rules, 1986 ;
(iii) all other allowances not exceeding six hundred rupees per month in the
aggregate received by any person by reason of his membership of any State
Legislature or of any Committee thereof, which the Central Government may, by
notification in the Official Gazette, specify in this behalf;]]
(17A) 1 2any payment made, whether in cash or in kind,-
(i) in pursuance of any award instituted in the public interest by the Central
Government or any State Government or instituted by any other body. and
approved by the Central Government in this behalf; or
(ii) as a reward by the Central Government or any State Government for such
purposes as may be approved by the Central Government in this behalf in the
public interest;]
(18A) 3 any ex gratia payments made by the Central Government consequent on
the abolition of privy purse;]
(19) 4 ]
(19A) 5 the annual value of any one palace in the occupation of a Ruler, being
a palace, the annual value whereof was exempt from income- tax before the
commencement of the Constitution (Twenty- sixth Amendment) Act, 1971 , by
virtue of the provisions of the Merged States (Taxation Concessions) Order,
1949 , or the Part B States (Taxation Concessions) Order, 1950 , or, as the
case may be, the Jammu and Kashmir (Taxation Concessions) Order, 1958 :
1\. Substituted for clauses (17A), (17B) and (18) by the Direct Tax Laws
(Amendment) Act, 1987, w. e. f. 1- 4- 1989. Prior to the substitution, these
clauses[ clause (17A), as inserted by Direct Taxes (Amendment) Act, 1974, w.
r. e. f. 1- 4- 1973 and amended by the Finance Act, 1980, w. e. f. 1- 4- 1980
and clause (17B), as inserted by the Direct Taxes Amendment Act, 1974, w. r.
e. f. 1- 4- 1973 ] read as under:" (17A) any payment made, whether in cash or
in kind, in pursuance of awards for literary, scientific or artistic work or
attainment or for service for alleviating the distress of the poor, the weak
and the ailing, or for proficiency in sports and games, instituted by the
Central Government or by any State Government or approved by the Central
Government in this behalf: Provided that the approval granted by the Central
Government shall have effect for such assessment year or years (including an
assessment year or years commencing before the date on which such approval is
granted) as may be specified in the order granting the approval; (17B) any
payment made, whether in cash or in kind, as a reward by the Central
Government or any State Government for such purposes as may be approved by the
Central Government in this behalf in the public interest; (18) any payment
made, whether in cash or in kind, by the Central Government or any State
Government in pursuance of gallantry awards instituted or approved by the
Central Government.
3\. Inserted by the Rulers of Indian States (Abolition of Privileges) Act,
1972, w. e. f. 9- 9- 1972.
4\. Omitted, ibid, w. e. f. 2- 4- 1973.
5\. Inserted, ibid, w. r. e. f. 28- 12- 1971
Provided that for the assessment year commencing on the 1st day of April, 1972
, the annual value of every such palace in the occupation of such Ruler during
the relevant previous year shall be exempt from income- tax;] 1 (20) the
income of a local authority which is chargeable under the head 2 ]" Income
from house property"," Capital gains", or" Income from other sources" or from
a trade or business carried on by it which accrues or arises from the supply
of a commodity or service 3 (not being water or electricity) within its own
jurisdictional area or from the supply of water or electricity within or
outside its own jurisdictional area];
(20A) 4 any income of an authority' constituted in India by or under any law
enacted either for the purpose of dealing with and satisfying the need for
housing accommodation or for the purpose of planning, development or
improvement of cities, towns and villages or for both;]
(21) 6 7 any income of a scientific research association for the time being
approved for the purpose of clause (ii) of sub- section (1) of section 35:
Provided that the scientific research association-
(a) applies its income, or accumulates it for application, wholly and
exclusively to the objects for which it is established, and the provisions of
sub- section (2) and sub- section (3) of section 11 shall apply in relation to
such accumulation subject to the following modifications, namely:-
2\. The words" Interest on securities," omitted by the Finance Act, 1988, w.
e. f. 1- 4- 1989.
3\. Substituted for" within its own jurisdictional area" by the Finance (No.
2) Act, 1971, w. e. f. 1- 4- 1972.
4\. Inserted by the Finance Act, 1970, w. r. e. f. 1- 4- 1962.
6\. Substituted by the Direct Tax Laws (Amendment) Act, 1989, w. e. f. 1- 4-
1990. Prior to the substitution, clause (21), as amended by the Finance Act,
1983, w. e. f. 1- 4- 1984 and the Direct Tax Laws (Amendment) Act, 1987 and
the Direct Tax Laws (Amendment) Act, 1989, both with effect from 1- 4- 1989,
read as under:" (21) any income of a scientific research association for the
time being approved for the purpose of clause (ii) of sub- section (1) of
section 35 which is applied solely to the purposes of that association:
Provided that nothing contained in this clause shall apply if for any period
during the previous year- (i) any sums by way of contributions received by the
association are invested or deposited after the 28th day of February, 1983,
otherwise than in any one or more of the forms or modes specified in sub-
section (5) of section 11; or (ii) any funds of the association invested or
deposited before the 1st day of March, 1983, otherwise than in any one or more
of the forms or modes specified in sub- section (5) of section 11 continue to
remain so invested or deposited after the 30th day of November, 1983; or (iii)
any shares in a company[ not being a Government company as defined in section
617 of the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956 ) or a corporation established by or
under a Central, State or Provincial Act] are held by the association after
the 30th day of November, 1983 ;"
(i) in sub- section (2),-
(1) the words, brackets, letters and figure" referred to in clause (a) or
clause (b) of sub- section (1) read with the Explanation to that sub- section"
shall be omitted;
(2) for the words" to charitable or religious purposes", the words" for the
purposes of scientific research" shall be substituted; (3) the reference to"
Assessing Officer" in clause (a) thereof shall be construed as a reference to
the" prescribed authority" referred to in clause (ii) of sub- section (1) of
section 35;
(ii) in sub- section (3), in clause (a), for the words" charitable or
religious purposes", the words" the purposes of scientific research" shall be
substituted; and
(b) 1 does not invest or deposit its funds, other than-
(i) any assets held by the scientific research association where such assets
form part of the corpus of the fund of the association as on the 1st day of
June, 1973 ;
(ii) any assets (being debentures issued by, or on behalf of, any company or
corporation), acquired by the scientific research association before the 1st
day of March, 1983 ;
(iii) any accretion to the shares, forming part of the corpus of the fund
mentioned in sub- clause (i), by way of bonus shares allotted to the
scientific research association;
(iv) voluntary contributions received and maintained in the form of jewellery,
furniture or any other article as the Board may, by notification in the
Official Gazette, specify, for any period during- the previous year otherwise
than in any one or more of the forms or modes specified in sub- section (5) of
section 11:] 2 Provided further that the exemption under this clause shall not
be denied in relation to voluntary contribution, other than voluntary
contribution in cash or voluntary contribution of the nature referred to in
clause (b) of the first proviso to this clause, subject to the condition that
such voluntary contribution is not held by the scientific research
association, otherwise than in any one or more of the forms or modes specified
in sub- section (5) of section 11, after the expiry of one year from the end
of the previous year in which such asset is acquired or the 31st day of March,
1992 , whichever is later:
1\. Substituted by the Finance Act, 1992, w. r. e. f. 1- 4- 1990. Prior to the
substitution, clause (b), substituted as a part of clause (21) by the Direct
Tax Laws (Amendment) Act, 1989, w. e. f. 1- 4- 1990, read as under:" (b) does
not invest or deposit its funds (other than voluntary contributions received
and maintained in the form of jewellery, furniture or any other article as the
Board may, by notification in the Official Gazette, specify) for any period
during the previous year otherwise than in any one or more of the forms or
modes specified in sub- section (5) of section 11:"
2\. Substituted for" Provided further" by the Finance (No. 2) Act, 1991, w. r.
e. f. 1- 4- 1990.
Provided also] that nothing contained in this clause shall apply in relation
to any income of the scientific research association, being profits and gains
of business, unless the business is incidental to the attainment of its
objectives and separate books of accounts are maintained by it in respect of
such business;]
(22) ' any income of a university or other educational institution, existing
solely for educational purposes and not for purposes of profit;
(22A) 2 3any income of a hospital or other institution for the reception and
treatment of persons suffering from illness or mental defectiveness or for the
reception and treatment of persons during convalescence or of persons
requiring medical attention or rehabilitation, existing solely for
philanthropic purposes and not for purposes of profit;]
(22B) 4 any income of such news agency set up in India solely for collection
and distribution of news as the Central Government may, by notification in the
Official Gazette, specify 5 in this behalf: Provided that the news agency
applies its income or accumulates it for application solely for collection and
distribution of news and does not distribute its income in any manner to its
members: Provided further that any notification issued by the Central
Government under this clause shall, at any one time, have effect for such
assessment year or years, not exceeding three assessment years (including an
assessment year or years commencing before the date on which such notification
is issued) as may be specified in the notification;]
(23) 6 ' any income of an association or institution established in India
2\. Inserted by the Finance Act, 1970, w. e. f. 1- 14- 1970.
4\. Inserted by the Finance Act, 1994, w. e. f. 1- 4- 1994.
5\. The Press Trust of India Ltd., New Delhi (Notification No. 9638, dated 10-
11- 1994 ) and United News India (Notification No. 9724, dated 21- 3- 1995 )
have been specified for the assessment years 1994 - 95 to 1996 - 97.
6\. Substituted by the Direct Tax Laws (Amendment) Act, 1989, w. e. f. 1- 4-
1990. Prior to the substitution, clause (23), as amended by the Direct Tax
Laws (Amendment) Act, 1987 and Direct Tax Laws (Amendment) Act, 1989, both w.
e. f. 1- 4- 1989, read as under:" (23) any income of an association or
institution established in India having as its object the control,
supervision, regulation or encouragement in India of the games of cricket,
hockey, football, tennis or such other games or sports as the Central
Government may, specify in this behalf from time to time by notification in
the Official Gazette:
which may be notified' by the Central Government in the Official Gazette
having regard to the fact that the association or institution has as its
object the control, supervision, regulation or encouragement in India of the
games of cricket, hockey, football, tennis or such other games or sports 2 as
the Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, specify
in this behalf: Provided that the association or institution shall make an
application in the prescribed form 3 and manner to the prescribed authority
for the purpose of grant of the exemption, or continuance thereof, under this
clause: Provided further that the Central Government may, before notifying the
association or institution under this clause call for such documents
(including audited annual accounts) or information from the association, or
institution as it thinks necessary in order to satisfy itself about the
genuineness of the activities of the association or institution and that
Government may also make such inquiries as it may deem necessary in this
behalf: Provided also that the association or institution,-
(a) applies its income or accumulates it for application, wholly and
exclusively to the objects for which it is established and the provisions of
sub- section (2) and sub- section (3) of section 11 shall apply in relation to
such accumulation subject to the following modifications, namely:-
(i) in sub- section (2),-
(1) the words, brackets, letters and figure" referred to in clause (a) or
clause (b) of sub- section (1) read with the Explanation to that sub- section"
shall be omitted;
(2) for the words" to charitable or religious purposes", the words" for the
purposes of games or sports" shall be substituted;
(3) the reference to" Assessing Officer" in clause (a) thereof shall be
construed as a reference to the" prescribed authority" referred to in the
first proviso to this clause;
999999\. Provided that- (i) the association or institution applies its income,
or accumulates it for application, solely to the objects for which it is
established; (ii) no part of the income of the association or institution is
distributed in any manner to its members except as grants to any association
or institution affiliated to it; and (iii) the association or institution is,
for the time being, approved for the purpose of this clause by the Central
Government by general or special order;"
(ii) in sub- section (3) in clause (a) for the words" charitable or religious
purposes", the words" the purposes of games or sports" shall be substituted;
and
(b) 1 does not invest or deposit its funds, other than-
(i) any assets held by the association or institution where such assets form
part of the corpus of the fund of the association or institution as on the 1st
day of June, 1973 ;
(ii) any assets (being debentures issued by, or on behalf of, any company or
corporation), acquired by the association or institution before the 1st day of
March, 1983 ;
(iii) any accretion to the shares, forming part of the corpus of the fund
mentioned in sub- clause (i), by way of bonus shares allotted to the
association or institution;
(iv) voluntary contributions received and maintained in the form of jewellery,
furniture or any other article as the Board may, by notification in the
Official Gazette, specify, for any period during the previous year otherwise
than in any one or more of the forms or modes specified in sub- section (5) of
section 11; and;]
(c) does not distribute any part of its income in any manner to its members
except as grants to any association or institution affiliated to it: Provided
also that the exemption under this clause shall not be denied in relation to
any funds invested or deposited before the 1st day of April, 1989 otherwise
than in any one or more of the forms or modes specified in sub- section (5) of
section 11 if such funds do not continue to remain so invested or deposited
after the 30th day of March, 2 1993 ]: 3 provided also that the exemption
under this clause shall not be denied in relation to voluntary contribution,
other than voluntary contribution in cash or voluntary contribution of the
nature referred to in clause (b) of the third proviso to this clause, subject
to the condition that such voluntary contribution is not held by the
association or institution, otherwise than in any one or more of the forms or
modes specified in sub- section (5) of section 11, after the expiry of one
year from the end of the previous year in which such asset is acquired or the
31st day of March, 1992 , whichever is later:] Provided also that nothing
contained in this clause shall apply in relation to any income of the
association or institution, being profits and
1\. Substituted by the Finance Act, 1992, w. r. e. f. 1- 4- 1990. Prior to the
substitution, clause (b), substituted as a part of clause (23) by the Direct
Tax Laws (Amendment) Act, 1989, w. e. f. 1- 4- 1990, read as under:" (b) does
not invest or deposit its funds (other than voluntary contributions received
and maintained in the form of jewellery, furniture or any other article as the
Board may, by notification in the Official Gazette, specify) for any period
during the previous year otherwise than in any one or more of the forms or
modes specified in sub- section (5) of section 11; and"
2\. Substituted for" 1992" by the Finance Act, 1992, w. e. f. 1- 4- 1992,
which was earlier substituted for" 1990" by the Finance (No. 2) Act, 1991, w.
r. e. f. 1- 4- 1990.
3\. Inserted by the Finance (No. 2) Act, 1991, w. r. e. f. 1- 4- 1990.
gains of business, unless the business is incidental to the attainment of its
objectives and separate books of account are maintained by it in respect of
such business: Provided also that any notification issued by the Central
Government under this clause in relation to any association or institution
shall, at any one time, have effect for such assessment year or years, not
exceeding three assessment years, (including an assessment year or years
commencing before the date on which such notification is issued) as may be
specified in the notification;]
(23A) 1 2 any income (other than income chargeable under the head ]" Income
from house property" or any income received for rendering any specific
services or income by way of interest or dividends derived from its
investments) of an association or institution established in India having as
its object the control, supervision, regulation or encouragement of the
profession of law, 4 medicine, accountancy, engineering or architecture or
such other profession' as the Central Government may specify in this behalf,
from time to time, by notification in the Official Gazette: Provided that-
(i) the association or institution applies its income, or accumulates it for
application, solely to the objects for which it is established; and
(ii) the association or institution is for the time being approved 6 for the
purpose of this clause by the Central Government by general or special order;]
(23AA) 7 any income received by any person on behalf of any Regimental Fund or
Non- public Fund established by the armed forces of the Union for the welfare
of the past and present members of such forces or their dependents;]
1\. Inserted by the Finance (No. 2) Act, 1965, w. r. e. f. 1- 4- 1962.
3\. The words" Interest on securities" omitted by the Finance Act, 1988, w. e.
f. 1- 4- 1989.
7\. Inserted by the Finance (No. 2) Act, 1980, w. r. e. f. 1- 4- 1962.
(23AAA) 1 any income received by any person on behalf of a fund established,
for such Purposes as may be notified by the Board in the Official Gazette, for
the welfare of employees or their dependants and of which fund such employees
are members if such fund fulfills the following conditions, namely:-
(a) the fund-
(i) applies its income, or accumulates it for application, wholly and
exclusively to the objects for which it is established,- and
(ii) invests its funds and contributions and other sums received by it in the
forms or modes specified in sub- section (5) of section 11;
(b) the fund is approved by the Commissioner in accordance with the rules made
in this behalf- Provided that any such approval shall at any one time have
effect for such assessment year or years not exceeding three assessment years
as may be specified in the order of approval;]
(23B) 2 any income of an institution constituted as a public charitable trust
or registered under the Societies Registration Act, 1860 (21 of 1860 ), or
under any law corresponding to that Act in force in any part of India, and
existing solely for the development of khadi or village industries or both,
and not for purposes of profit, to the extent such income is attributable to
the business of production, sale, or marketing, of khadi or products of
village industries: Provided that-
(i) the institution applies its income, or accumulates it for application,
solely for the development of khadi or village industries or both; and
(ii) the institution is, for the time being, approved for the purpose of this
clause by the Khadi and Village Industries Commission: Provided further that
the Commission shall not, at any one time, grant such approval for more than
three assessment years beginning with the assessment year next following the
financial year in which it is granted. Explanation.- For the purposes of this
clause,-
(i) " Khadi and Village Industries Commission" means the Khadi and Village
Industries Commission established under the Khadi and Village Industries
Commission Act, 1956 (61 of 1956 );
(ii) " Khadi" and" village industries" have the meanings respectively assigned
to them in that Act;]
(23BB) 3 any income of an authority (whether known as the Khadi and Village
Industries Board or by any other name) established in a State by or under a
State or Provincial Act for the development of khadi or village industries in
the State. Explanation.- For the purposes of this clause," khadi" and" village
industries" have the meanings respectively assigned to them in the Khadi and
Village Industries Commission Act, 1956 (61 of 1956 );]
1\. Being inserted by the Finance Act, 1995, w. e. f 1- 4- 1996.
2\. Inserted by the Finance Act, 1974, w. e. f. 1- 6- 1974.
3\. Inserted by the Finance Act, 1979, w. r. e. f. 1- 4- 1962.
(23BBA) 1 any income of any body or authority (whether or not a body corporate
or corporation sole) established, constituted or appointed by or under any
Central, State or Provincial Act which provides for the administration of any
one or more of the following, that is to say, public, religious or charitable
trusts or endowments (including maths, temples, gurdwaras, wakfs, churches,
synagogues, agiaries or other places of public religious worship) or societies
for religious or charitable purposes registered as such under the Societies
Registration Act, 1860 (21 of 1860 ), or any other law for the time being in
force: Provided that nothing in this clause shall be construed to exempt from
tax the income of any trust, endowment or society referred to therein;]
(23BBB) 2 any income of the European Economic Community derived in India by
way of interest, dividends or capital gains from investments made out of its
funds under such scheme as the Central Government may, by notification in the
Official Gazette, specify 3 in this behalf. Explanation.- For the purposes of
this clause," European Economic Community" means the European Economic
Community established by the Treaty of Rome of 25th March, 1957 ;]
(23C) 4 5any income received by any person on behalf of-
(i) the Prime Minister' s National Relief Fund; or
(ii) the Prime Minister' s Fund (Promotion of Folk Art); or
(iii) the Prime Minister' s Aid to Students Fund; 6 or]
(iiia) 7 the National Foundation for Communal Harmony; or]
(iv) 8 any other fund or institution established for charitable purposes
1\. Inserted by the Finance Act, 1979, w. r. e. f. 1- 4- 1962.
2\. Inserted by the Finance Act, 1993, w. e. f. 1- 4- 1994.
3\. The European Community International Institutional Partners (ECIIP)
Scheme, 1993 has been specified vide Notification No. 971 1, dated 23- 2-
1995.
4\. Inserted by the Taxation Laws (Amendment) Act, 1975, w. e. f. 1- 4- 1976.
6\. Reintroduced by the Direct Tax Laws (Amendment) Act, 1989, w. e. f. 1- 4-
1989. Earlier it was omitted by the Direct Tax Laws (Amendment) Act, 1987 with
effect from the same date.
7\. Inserted by the Finance Act, 1993, w. e. f. 1- 4- 1993.
8\. Substituted by the Direct Tax Laws (Amendment) Act, 1989, w. e. f. 1- 4-
1990. Prior to the substitution, sub- clauses (iv) and (v), as amended by the
Direct Tax Laws (Amendment) Act, 1987 and Direct Tax Laws (Amendment) Act,
1989, both w. e. f. 1- 4- 1989, read as under:" (iv) any other fund or
institution established for charitable purposes which may be notified by the
Central Government in the Official Gazette, having regard to the objects of
the fund or institution and its importance throughout India or throughout any
State or States; or (v) any trust (including any other legal obligation) or
institution, being a trust or institution wholly for public religious purposes
or wholly for public religious and charitable purposes, which may be notified
by the Central Government in the Official Gazette, having regard to the manner
in which the affairs of the trust or institution are administered and
supervised for ensuring that the income accruing thereto is properly applied
for the purposes thereof:--.
which may be notified' by the Central Government in the Official Gazette,
having regard to the objects of the fund or institution and its importance
throughout India or throughout any State or States; or
(v) any trust (including any other legal obligation) or institution wholly for
public religious purposes or wholly for public religious and charitable
purposes, which may be notified 2 by the Central Government in the Official
Gazette, having regard to the manner in which the affairs of the trust or
institution are administered and supervised for ensuring that the income
accruing thereto is properly applied for the objects thereof: Provided that
the fund or trust or institution referred to in sub- clause (iv) or sub-
clause (v) shall make an application in the prescribed form 3 and manner to
the prescribed authority for the purpose of grant of the exemption, or
continuance thereof, under sub- clause (iv) or sub- clause (v): Provided
further that the Central Government may, Wore notifying the fund or trust or
institution under sub- clause (iv) or sub- clause (v), call for such documents
(including audited annual accounts) or information from the fund or trust or
institution as it thinks necessary in order to satisfy itself about the
genuineness of the activities of the fund or trust or institution and that
Government may also make such inquiries as it may deem necessary in this
behalf: Provided also that the fund or trust or institution referred to in
sub- clause (iv) or sub- clause (v)-
(a) applies its income, or accumulates it for application, wholly and
exclusively to the objects for which it is established; and
(b) 4 does not invest or deposit its funds, other than-
(i) any assets held by the fund, trust or institution where such assets form
part of the corpus of the
999999\. Provided that any notification issued by the Central Government under
sub- clause (iv) or sub- clause (v) shall have effect for such assessment year
or years (including an assessment year or years commencing before the date on
which such notification is issued) as may be specified in the notification;"
2\. For complete list of specified trusts institutions, refer, ibid.
4\. Substituted by the Finance Act, 1992, w. r. e. f. 1- 4- 1990. Prior to the
substitution, clause (b), substituted as a part of sub- clauses (iv) and (v)
by the Direct Tax Laws (Amendment) Act, 1989, w. e. f. 1- 4- 1990, read as
under:" (b) does not invest or deposit its funds (other than voluntary
contributions received and maintained in the form of jewellery, furniture or
any other article as the Board may, by notification in the Official Gazette,
specify) for any period during the previous year otherwise than in any one or
more of the forms or modes specified in sub- section (5) of section 11:"
fund, trust or institution as on the 1st day of June, 1973 ;
(ii) any assets (being debentures issued by, or on behalf of, any company or
corporation), acquired by the fund, trust or institution before the 1st day of
March, 1983 ;
(iii) any accretion to the shares, forming part of the corpus mentioned in
sub- clause (i), by way of bonus shares allotted to the fund, trust or
institution;
(iv) voluntary contributions received and maintained in the form of jewellers,
furniture or any other article as the Board may, by notification in the
Official Gazette, specify, for any period during the previous year otherwise
than in any one or more of the forms or modes specified in sub- section (5) of
section 11:] Provided also that the exemption under sub- clause (iv) or sub-
clause (v) shall not be denied in relation to anyfunds invested or deposited
before the 1st day of April, 1989 , otherwise than in any one or more of the
forms ormodes specified in sub- section (5) of section 11 if such funds do not
continue to remain so invested or deposited after the 30thday of March, 1 1993
]: 2 Provided also that the exemption under sub- clause (iv) or sub- clause
(v) shall not be denied in relation to voluntary contribution, other than
voluntary contribution in cash or voluntary contribution of the nature
referred to in clause (b) of the third proviso to this sub- clause, subject to
the condition that such voluntary contribution is not held by the trust or
institution, otherwise than in any one or more of the forms or modes specified
in sub- section (5) of section 1 1, after the expiry of one year from the end
of the previous year in which such asset is acquired or the 31st day of March,
1992 , whichever is later:] Provided also that nothing contained in sub-
clause (iv) or sub- clause (v) shall apply in relation to any income of the
fund or trust or institution, being profits and gains of business, unless the
business is incidental to the attainment of its objectives and separate books
of accounts are maintained by it in respect of such business: Provided also
that any notification issued by the Central Government under sub- clause (iv)
or sub- clause (v) shall, at any one time, have effect for such assessment
year or years, not exceeding three assessment years (including an assessment
year or years commencing before the date on which such notification is issued)
as may be specified in the notification;]
1\. Substituted for" 1992" by the Finance Act, 1992, w. e. f. 1- 4- 1992,
which was earlier substituted for" 1990" by the Finance (No. 2) Act, 1991, w.
r. e. f. 1- 4- 1990.
2\. Inserted by the Finance (No. 2) Act, 1991, w. r. e. f. 1- 4- 1990.
The term' deemed to have been utilised' in column 11 has been used to cover
income of the type mentioned in Explanation 2 to sub- section (1) and sub-
section (1A) of section 11 so that such income may be excluded for determining
compliance with the condition regarding application accumulation of income to
the objects of the trusts institutions. In the amended Form 56 columns 16 and
17 seek information in respect of transactions contemplated in sub- sections
(2) and (3) of section 13. This does not imply that the provisions of sections
11 and 1, 3 will be applied. It will enable the prescribed authority to know
broadly that the institution trust is working genuinely towards its objects. 3
The Notifications issued under section 10 (23C) should specify the assessment
year or years and be valid for that period which is specified therein and for
no other period.
(23D) 1 any income of-
1\. Substituted by the Finance Act, 1995, w. e. f. 1- 7- 1995. Prior to the
substitution, clause (23D), as inserted by the Direct Tax Laws (Amendment)
Act, 1987, w. e. f. 1- 4- 1988 and subsequently amended, read as under:" (23D)
any income[ of] such Mutual Fund set up by a public sector bank or a public
financial institution[ or authorised by the Securities and Exchange Board of
India or the Reserve Bank of India] and subject to such conditions[] as the
Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, specify in
this behalf." Substituted for" from" by the Finance Act, 1988, w. e. f. 1- 4-
1988. Inserted by the Finance Act, 1992, w. e. f. 1- 4- 1993. The words"
including the condition that at least ninety per cent of such income shall be
distributed to the holders of its units every year," omitted by the Direct Tax
Laws (Amendment) Act, 1989, w. r. e. f. 1- 4- 1988. Earlier, the words" such
income shall be distributed to the holder of its units" were substituted for"
the income from the mutual fund shall be distributed to the unit holders' by
the Finance Act, 1988, w. e. f. 1- 4- 1988. The SBI Mutual Fund, LIC Mutual
Fund, Indian Magnum Fund, N. V. Mutual Fund of SBI, Indian Bank Mutual Fund,
PNB Mutual Fund, BOI Mutual Fund, BOB Mutual Fund, Asian Convertibles and
Income Mutual Fund, Mutual Fund of GIC, Canbank (Offshore) Mutual Fund,
Canbank Mutual Fund, ICICI Mutual Fund, Indbank Offshore Mutual Fund,
Commonwealth Equity Fund Mutual Fund, Kothari Pioneer Mutual Fund, Taurus
Mutual Fund, Morgan Stanley Mutual. Fund, Apple Mutual Fund, CRB Mutual Fund,
Shriram Mutual Fund, 20th Century Mutual Fund, Birla Mutual Fund, J. M. Mutual
Fund and IDBI Mutual Fund have since been notified under this clause, as it
stood before the above substitution.
(i) a Mutual Fund registered under the Securities and Exchange Board of India
Act, 1992 (15 of 1992 ) or regulations made thereunder;
(ii) such other Mutual Fund set up by a public sector bank or a public
financial institution or authorised by the Reserve Bank of India and subject
to such conditions as the Central Government may, by notification in the
Official Gazette, specify in this behalf.] Explanation.- For the purposes of
this clause,-
(a) the expression" public sector bank" means the State Bank of India
constituted under the State Bank of India Act, 1955 (23 of 1955 ), a
subsidiary bank as defined in the State Bank of India (Subsidiary Banks) Act,
1959 (38 of 1959 ), a corresponding new bank constituted under section 3 of
the Banking Companies (Acquisition and Transfer of Undertakings) Act, 1970 1
(5 of 1970 ), or under section 3 of the Banking Companies (Acquisition and
Transfer of Undertakings) Act, 1980 2 (40 of 1980 );
(b) the expression" public financial institution" shall have the meaning
assigned to it in section 4A of the Companies Act, 19563 (1 of 1956 );]
(C) 4 the expression" Securities and Exchange Board of India" shall have the
meaning assigned to it in clause (a) of sub- section (1) of section 2 of the
Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 5 (15 of 1992 );.]
(23E) 6 any income of such Exchange Risk Administration Fund set up by public
financial institutions, either jointly or separately, as the Central
Government may, by notification' in the Official Gazette, specify in this
behalf: Provided that where any amount standing to the credit of the Fund and
not charged to income- tax during any previous year is shared, either wholly
or in part, with a public financial institution, the whole of the amount so
shared shall be deemed to be the income of the previous year in which such
amount is so shared and shall accordingly be chargeable to income- tax.
Explanation.- For the purposes of this clause, the expression" public
financial institution" shall have the meaning assigned to it in section 4A of
the Companies Act, 1956 8 (1 of 1956 );]
(23F) 9 any income by way of dividends or long- term capital gains of a
venture capital fund or a venture capital company from investments made by way
of equity shares in a venture capital undertaking:
2\. Ibid.
3\. Ibid.
4\. Inserted by the Finance Act, 1992, w. e. f. 1- 4- 1993.
6\. Inserted by the Finance Act, 1989, w. e. f. 1- 4- 1989.
7\. The Exchange Risk Administration Fund set up by IDBI, IFCI and ICICI (vide
Notification No. SO 872 (E), dated 16- 11- 1990 ) and by Power Finance Corpn.
Ltd.
9\. Being inserted by the Finance Act, 1995, w. e. f. 1- 4- 1996.
Provided that such venture capital fund or venture capital company is approved
for the purposes of this clause by the prescribed authority in accordance with
the rules made in this behalf and satisfies the prescribed conditions:
Provided further that any approval by the prescribed authority shall, at any
one time, have effect for such assessment year or years, not exceeding three
assessment years, as may be specified in the order of approval: Provided also
that if the aforesaid equity shares are transferred (other than in the event
of the said shares being listed in a recognised stock exchange in India) by a
venture capital fund or a venture capital company to any person at any time
within a period of three years from the date of their acquisition, the
aggregate amount of income by way of dividends on such equity shares which has
not been included in the total income of the previous year or years preceding
the previous year in which such transfer has taken place shall be deemed to be
the income of venture capital fund or of the venture capital company of the
previous year in which such transfer has taken place: Provided also that the
exemption shall not be allowed in respect of the long- term capital gains, if
any, arising on such transfer of equity shares as is mentioned in the third
proviso. Explanation.- For the purposes of this clause,-
(a) " venture capital fund" means such fund, operating under a trust deed
registered under the provisions of the registration Act, 1908 (16 of 1908 ),
established to raise monies by the trustees for investments mainly by way of
acquiring equity shares of a venture capital undertaking in accordance with
the prescribed guidelines;
(b) " venture capital company" means such company as has made investments by
way of acquiring equity shares of venture capital undertakings in accordance
with the prescribed guidelines; and
(c) " venture capital undertaking" means such domestic company whose shares
are not listed in a recognised stock exchange in India and which is engaged in
the manufacture or production of such articles or things (including computer
software) as may be notified by the Central Government in this behalf:]
(24) any income chargeable under the heads" Income from house property" and"
Income from other sources" of a registered union within the meaning of the
Indian Trade Unions Act, 1926 (16 of 1926 ), formed primarily for the purpose
of regulating the relations between workmen and employers or between workmen
and workmen;
(25) (i) interest on securities which are held by, or are the property of, any
provident fund to which the Provident Funds Act, 1925 2 (19 of 1925 ),
applies, and any capital gains of the fund arising from the sale, exchange or
transfer of such securities;
(ii) any income received by the trustees on behalf of a recognised provident
fund;
1\. The words" Interest on securities," omitted by the Finance Act, 1988, w.
e. f. 1- 4- 1989.
(iii) any income received by the trustees on behalf of an approved
superannuation fund;
(iv) 1 any income received by the trustees on behalf on an approved gratuity
fund;]
(v) 2 any income received-
(a) by the Board of Trustees constituted under the Coal Mines Provident Fund
and Miscellaneous Provisions Act, 1948 3 (46 of 1948 ), on behalf of the
Deposit- linked Insurance Fund established under section 3G of that Act; or
(b) by the Board of Trustees constituted under the Employees Provident Funds
and Miscellaneous Provisions Act, 1952 4 (19 of 1952 ), on behalf of the
Deposit- linked Insurance Fund established under section 6C of that Act;]
(25A) 5 any income of the Employees' State Insurance Fund set up under the
provisions of the Employees' State Insurance Act, 7948 (34 of 1948 );]
(26) 6 in the case of a member of a Scheduled Tribe as defined in clause (25)
of article 366 7 of the Constitution, residing in any area specified in Part I
or Part II of the Table appended to paragraph 20 of the Sixth Schedule to the
Constitution or in the 7 States of Arunachal Pradesh, Manipur, Mizoram,
Nagaland and Tripura] or in the areas covered by Notification No. TAD R 35 50
109, dated the 23rd February, 1951 , issued by the Governor of Assam under the
proviso to sub- paragraph (3) of the said paragraph 20 as it stood immediately
before the commencement of the North- Eastern Areas (Reorganisation) Act, 1971
(18 of 1971 )], any income which accrues or arises to him,-
(a) from any source in the areas 9 or States] aforesaid, or
(b) by way of dividend or interest on securities;]
(26A) 10 " any income accruing or arising to any person 12 ] from any source
in the district of Ladakh or outside India in any previous year
1\. Inserted by the Finance Act, 1972, w. e. f. 1- 4- 1973.
2\. Inserted by the Labour Provident Fund Laws (Amendment) Act, 1976, w. e. f.
1- 8- 1976.
4\. Ibid.
5\. Inserted by the Finance Act, 1995, w. r. e. f. 1- 4- 1962.
6\. Substituted by the North- Eastern Areas (Reorganisation) (Adaptation of
Laws on Union Subjects) Order, 1974, w. r. e. f. 21- 1- 1972. Earlier, it was
amended by the State of Nagaland (Adaptation of Laws on Union Subjects) Order,
1965, w. r. e. f. 1- 12- 1963 and the Taxation Laws (Amendment) Act, 1970, w.
r. e. f. 1- 4- 1962.
7\. Article 366 (25) of the Constitution defines" Scheduled Tribes" as under:"
(25)' Scheduled Tribes' means such tribes or tribal communities or parts of or
groups within such tribes or tribal communities as are deemed under article
342 to be Scheduled Tribes for the purposes of this Constitution;"
8\. Substituted for" States of Nagaland, Manipur and Tripura or in the Union
territories of Arunachal Pradesh and Mizoram" by the Finance Act, 1994, w. e.
f. 1- 4- 1995.
9\. Substituted for", States or Union territories" by the Finance Act, 1994,
w. e. f. 1- 4- 1995.
10\. Inserted by the Finance (No. 2) Act, 1965, w. r. e. f. 1- 4- 1962.
12\. The words" (not being an individual who is in the service of Government)"
omitted by the Finance (No. 2) Act, 1971, w. r. e. f. 1- 4- 1962.
relevant to any assessment year commencing before the 1st day of April, 1 1989
], where such person is resident in the said district in that previous year:
Provided that this clause shall not apply in the case of any such person
unless he was resident in that district in the previous year relevant to the
assessment year commencing on the 1st day of April, 1962 . Explanation.- 2
1].- For the purposes of this clause a person shall be deemed to be resident
in the district of Ladakh if he fulfils the requirements of sub- section (1)
or sub- section (2) or sub- section (3) or sub- section (4) of section 6, as
the case may be, subject to the modifications that-
(i) references in those sub- sections to India shall be construed as
references to the said district; and
(ii) in clause (i) of sub- section (3), reference to Indian company shall be
construed as reference to a company formed and registered under any law for
the time being in force in the State of Jammu and Kashmir and having its
registered office in that district in that year.] 3 Explanation 2.- In this
clause, references to the district of Ladakh shall be construed as references
to the areas comprised in the said district on the 30th day of June, 1979 ;]
(26AA) 4 any income of a person by way of winnings from any lottery, the draw
of which is held in pursuance of any agreement entered into on or before the
28th day of February, 1989 , between the State Government of Sikkim and the
organising agents of such lottery, where such person is resident in the State
of Sikkim in any previous year. Explanation.- For the purposes of this clause,
a person shall be deemed to be resident in the State of Sikkim if he fulfils
the requirements of clause (1) or clause (2) or clause (3) or clause (4) of
section 6, as the case may be, subject to the modifications that-
(i) references in those clauses to India shall be construed as references to
the State of Sikkim; and
(ii) in sub- clause (i) of clause (3), reference to Indian company shall be
construed as reference to a company formed and registered under any law for
the time being in force in the State of Sikkim and having its registered
office in that State in that year;]
(26B) 5 any income of a corporation established by a Central, State or
Provincial Act, or of any other body, institution or association (being a
1\. Substituted for" 1986" by the Finance Act, 1985, w. e. f. 1- 4- 1985.
Earlier," 1986" was substituted for" 1983" by the Finance Act, 1983, w. e. f.
1- 4- 1983 ;" 1983" for" 1980" by the Finance Act, 1980, w. e. f. 4- 4- 1980
;" 1980" for" 1975" by the Finance (No. 2) Act, 1977, w. r. e. f. 1- 4- 1975
and" 1975" for" 1970" by the Finance (No. 2) Act, 1971, w. r. e. 1- 4- 1970.
2\. Inserted by the Finance Act, 1983, w. r. e. f. 1- 4- 1980.
3\. ibid.
4\. Inserted by the Finance Act, 1989, w. e. f. 1- 4- 1990.
5\. Inserted by the Finance Act, 1980, w. r. e. f. 1- 4- 1972.
body, institution or association wholly financed by Government) where such
corporation or other body or institution or association has been established
or formed for promoting the interests of the members of 1 the Scheduled Castes
or the Scheduled Tribes or backward classes or of any two or all of them]. 2
Explanation.- For the purposes of this clause,-
(a) " Scheduled Castes" and" Scheduled Tribes" shall have the meanings
respectively assigned to them in clauses (24) and (25) of article 366 of the
Constitution 3;
(b) " backward classes" means such classes of citizens, other than the
Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes, as may be notified-
(i) by the Central Government; or
(ii) by any State Government, as the case may be, from time to time;]]
(26BB) 4 any income of a corporation established by the Central Government or
any State Government for promoting the interests of the members of a minority
community. Explanation.- For the purposes of' this clause," minority
community" means a community notified as such by the Central Government in the
Official Gazette in this behalf,]
(27) 5 any income of a co- operative society formed for promoting the
interests of the members of either the Scheduled Castes or Scheduled Tribes or
both referred to in clause (26B): Provided that the membership of the co-
operative society consists of only other co- operative societies formed for
similar purposes and the finances of the society are provided by the
Government and such other societies;]
(28) 6 any amount adjusted or paid in respect of a tax credit certificate
under the provisions of Chapter XXIIB and any scheme made thereunder;]
(29) 7 in the case of an authority constituted tinder any law for the time
being in force for the marketing of commodities, any income derived from the
letting of go downs or warehouses for storage, processing or facilitating the
marketing of commodities;]
1\. Substituted for" either the Scheduled Castes or the Scheduled Tribes or of
both" by the Finance Act, 1994, w. r. e. f. 1- 4- 1993.
2\. Substituted by the Finance Act, 1994 w. r. e. f. 1- 4- 1993. Prior to the
substitution, the Explanation, as originally enacted, read as under:"
Explanation. For the purposes of this clause," Scheduled Castes" and"
Scheduled Tribes" shall have the meanings respectively assigned to them in
clauses (24) and (25) of Article 366 of the Constitution".
4\. Inserted by the Finance Act, 1995, w. e. f. 1- 4- 1995.
5\. Inserted by the Finance Act, 1992, w. r. e. f. 1- 4- 1989. Earlier, clause
(27) was inserted by the Finance Act, 1964, w. e. f. 1- 4- 1964; amended by
the Finance (No. 2) Act, 1967, w. e. f. 1- 4- 1967 and omitted by the Finance
Act, 1975, w. e. f. 1- 4- 1976.
6\. Substituted by the Finance (No. 2) Act, 1965, w. e. f. 11- 9- 1965. It was
inserted by the Finance Act, 1965, w. e. f. 1- 4- 1965. Chapter YXII- B has
been omitted by the Finance Act, 1990, w. e. f. 1- 4- 1990. This clause too
needs to be omitted.
7\. Inserted by the Finance (No. 2) Act, 1967, w. e. f 1- 4- 1968.
1 (30) 2 in the case of an assessee who carries on the business of growing and
manufacturing tea in India, the amount of any subsidy received from or through
the Tea Board under any such scheme 3 for replantation or replacement of tea
bushes 4 or for rejuvenation or consolidation of areas used for cultivation of
tea] as the Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette,
specify: Provided that the assessee furnishes to the 5 Assessing] Officer,
along with his return of income for the assessment year concerned or within
such further time as the 6 Assessing] Officer may allow, a certificate from
the Tea Board as to the amount of such subsidy paid to the assessee during the
previous year. Explanation.- In this clause," Tea Board" means the Tea Board
established under section 4 of the Tea Act, 1953 (29 of 1953 );]
(31) 7 in the case of an assessee who carries on the business of growing and
manufacturing rubber, coffee, cardamom or such other commodity in India, as
the Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, specify
in this behalf, the amount of any subsidy received from or through the
concerned Board under any such scheme for replantation or replacement of
rubber plants, coffee plants, cardamom plants or plants for the growing of
such other commodity or for rejuvenation or consolidation of areas used for
cultivation of rubber, coffee, cardamom or such other commodity as the Central
Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, specify: Provided
that the assessee furnishes to the Assessing Officer, along with his return of
income for the assessment year concerned or within such further time as the
Assessing Officer may allow, a certificate from the concerned Board, as to the
amount of such subsidy paid to the assessee during the previous year.
Explanation.- In this clause," concerned Board" means,-
(i) in relation to rubber, the Rubber Board constituted under section 4 of the
Rubber Act, 1947 (24 of 1947 ),
(ii) in relation to coffee, the Coffee Board constituted under section 4 of
the Coffee Act, 1942 (7 of 1942 ),
(iii) in relation to cardamom, the Spices Board constituted under section 3 of
the Spices Board Act, 1986 (10 of 1986 ),
(iv) in relation to any other commodity specified under this clause, any Board
or other authority established under any law for the time being in force which
the Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, specify
in this behalf.]
1\. Inserted by the Taxation Laws (Amendment) Act, 1970, w. r. e. f. 1- 4-
1969.
4\. Inserted by the Finance Act, 1984, w. e. f. 1- 4- 1985.
5\. Substituted for" Income- tax" by the Direct Tax Laws (Amendment) Act,
1987, w. e. f. 1- 4- 1988.
6\. Ibid.
7\. Inserted by the Finance Act, 1988, w. e. f. 1- 4- 1989.
(32) 1 in the case of an assessee referred to in sub- section (1A) of section
64, any income includable in his total income under that sub- section, to the
extent such income does not exceed one thousand five hundred rupees in respect
of each minor child whose income is so includable.]
Rubber Act, 1947 (24 of 1947 ),
(ii) in relation to coffee, the Coffee Board constituted under section 4 of
the Coffee Act, 1942 (7 of 1942 ),
(iii) in relation to cardamom, the Spices Board constituted under section 3 of
the Spices Board Act, 1986 (10 of 1986 ),
(iv) in relation to any other commodity specified under this clause, any Board
or other authority established under any law for the time being in force which
the Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, specify
in this behalf.]
1\. Inserted by the Taxation Laws (Amendment) Act, 1970, w. r. e. f. 1- 4-
1969.
4\. Inserted by the Finance Act, 1984, w. e. f. 1- 4- 1985.
5\. Substituted for" Income- tax" by the Direct Tax Laws (Amendment) Act,
1987, w. e. f. 1- 4- 1988.
6\. Ibid.
7\. Inserted by the Finance Act, 1988, w. e. f. 1- 4- 1989.
extent such receipts do not exceed five thousand rupees in the aggregate:] 5
Provided that where such receipts relate to winnings from races including
horse races, the provisions of this clause shall have effect as if for the
words" five thousand rupees", the words" two thousand five hundred rupees" had
been substituted: Provided further that this clause shall not apply to-
(i) capital gains chargeable under the provisions of section 45; or
1\. Inserted by the Taxation Laws (Amendment) Act, 1970 w. e. f. 1- 4- 1971
2\. Inserted by the Finance Act, 1992, w. e. f. 1- 4- 1993. Earlier, clause
(2A) was inserted by the Direct Tax Laws (Amendment) Act, 1987, w. e. f. 1- 4-
1989 but was omitted by the Direct Tax Laws (Amendment) Act, 1989, with effect
from the same date.
3\. Substituted by the Finance Act, 1972, w. e. f. 14- 1972. Section 59 of the
said Finance Act has made the following special provision in this regard:" 59.
Certain casual and non- recurring receipts not to be included in the total
income for the assessment year 1972 - 73.- Notwithstanding the amendments made
by this Act to the Income- tax Act, in computing, in the case of any person,
the total income of a previous year relevant to the assessment year commencing
on the 1st day of April, 1972, any income falling within clause (3) of section
10 of the Income- tax Act as it stood immediately before the 1st day of April,
1972, shall not be included."
Rubber Act, 1947 (24 of 1947 ),
(ii) in relation to coffee, the Coffee Board constituted under section 4 of
the Coffee Act, 1942 (7 of 1942 ),
(iii) in relation to cardamom, the Spices Board constituted under section 3 of
the Spices Board Act, 1986 (10 of 1986 ),
(iv) in relation to any other commodity specified under this clause, any Board
or other authority established under any law for the time being in force which
the Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, specify
in this behalf.]
1\. Inserted by the Taxation Laws (Amendment) Act, 1970, w. r. e. f. 1- 4-
1969.
4\. Inserted by the Finance Act, 1984, w. e. f. 1- 4- 1985.
5\. Substituted for" Income- tax" by the Direct Tax Laws (Amendment) Act,
1987, w. e. f. 1- 4- 1988.
6\. Ibid.
7\. Inserted by the Finance Act, 1988, w. e. f. 1- 4- 1989.
extent such receipts do not exceed five thousand rupees in the aggregate:] 5
Provided that where such receipts relate to winnings from races including
horse races, the provisions of this clause shall have effect as if for the
words" five thousand rupees", the words" two thousand five hundred rupees" had
been substituted: Provided further that this clause shall not apply to-
(i) capital gains chargeable under the provisions of section 45; or
1\. Inserted by the Taxation Laws (Amendment) Act, 1970 w. e. f. 1- 4- 1971
2\. Inserted by the Finance Act, 1992, w. e. f. 1- 4- 1993. Earlier, clause
(2A) was inserted by the Direct Tax Laws (Amendment) Act, 1987, w. e. f. 1- 4-
1989 but was omitted by the Direct Tax Laws (Amendment) Act, 1989, with effect
from the same date.
3\. Substituted by the Finance Act, 1972, w. e. f. 14- 1972. Section 59 of the
said Finance Act has made the following special provision in this regard:" 59.
Certain casual and non- recurring receipts not to be included in the total
income for the assessment year 1972 - 73.- Notwithstanding the amendments made
by this Act to the Income- tax Act, in computing, in the case of any person,
the total income of a previous year relevant to the assessment year commencing
on the 1st day of April, 1972, any income falling within clause (3) of section
10 of the Income- tax Act as it stood immediately before the 1st day of April,
1972, shall not be included."
Rubber Act, 1947 (24 of 1947 ),
(ii) in relation to coffee, the Coffee Board constituted under section 4 of
the Coffee Act, 1942 (7 of 1942 ),
(iii) in relation to cardamom, the Spices Board constituted under section 3 of
the Spices Board Act, 1986 (10 of 1986 ),
(iv) in relation to any other commodity specified under this clause, any Board
or other authority established under any law for the time being in force which
the Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, specify
in this behalf.]
1\. Inserted by the Taxation Laws (Amendment) Act, 1970, w. r. e. f. 1- 4-
1969.
4\. Inserted by the Finance Act, 1984, w. e. f. 1- 4- 1985.
5\. Substituted for" Income- tax" by the Direct Tax Laws (Amendment) Act,
1987, w. e. f. 1- 4- 1988.
6\. Ibid.
7\. Inserted by the Finance Act, 1988, w. e. f. 1- 4- 1989.
extent such receipts do not exceed five thousand rupees in the aggregate:] 5
Provided that where such receipts relate to winnings from races including
horse races, the provisions of this clause shall have effect as if for the
words" five thousand rupees", the words" two thousand five hundred rupees" had
been substituted: Provided further that this clause shall not apply to-
(i) capital gains chargeable under the provisions of section 45; or
1\. Inserted by the Taxation Laws (Amendment) Act, 1970 w. e. f. 1- 4- 1971
2\. Inserted by the Finance Act, 1992, w. e. f. 1- 4- 1993. Earlier, clause
(2A) was inserted by the Direct Tax Laws (Amendment) Act, 1987, w. e. f. 1- 4-
1989 but was omitted by the Direct Tax Laws (Amendment) Act, 1989, with effect
from the same date.
3\. Substituted by the Finance Act, 1972, w. e. f. 14- 1972. Section 59 of the
said Finance Act has made the following special provision in this regard:" 59.
Certain casual and non- recurring receipts not to be included in the total
income for the assessment year 1972 - 73.- Notwithstanding the amendments made
by this Act to the Income- tax Act, in computing, in the case of any person,
the total income of a previous year relevant to the assessment year commencing
on the 1st day of April, 1972, any income falling within clause (3) of section
10 of the Income- tax Act as it stood immediately before the 1st day of April,
1972, shall not be included."
4\. Substituted for' not being winnings from lotteries, to the extent such
receipts do not exceed one thousand rupees in the aggregate' by the Finance
Act, 1986, w. e. f. 1- 4- 1987.
5\. Substituted for' Provided that' by the Finance Act, 1992, w. e. f. 1- 4-
1992.
(ii) receipts arising from business or the exercise of a profession or
occupation; or
(iii) receipts by way of addition to the remuneration of an employee;] I[]
(4) 3 (i) in the case of a non- resident, any income by way of interest on
1\. The word' or' omitted by the Finance Act, 1992, w. e. f. 1- 4- 1992.
Earlier, it was inserted by the Finance (No. 2) Act, 1991, w. e. f. 1- 10-
Rubber Act, 1947 (24 of 1947 ),
(ii) in relation to coffee, the Coffee Board constituted under section 4 of
the Coffee Act, 1942 (7 of 1942 ),
(iii) in relation to cardamom, the Spices Board constituted under section 3 of
the Spices Board Act, 1986 (10 of 1986 ),
(iv) in relation to any other commodity specified under this clause, any Board
or other authority established under any law for the time being in force which
the Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, specify
in this behalf.]
1\. Inserted by the Taxation Laws (Amendment) Act, 1970, w. r. e. f. 1- 4-
1969.
4\. Inserted by the Finance Act, 1984, w. e. f. 1- 4- 1985.
5\. Substituted for" Income- tax" by the Direct Tax Laws (Amendment) Act,
1987, w. e. f. 1- 4- 1988.
6\. Ibid.
7\. Inserted by the Finance Act, 1988, w. e. f. 1- 4- 1989.
extent such receipts do not exceed five thousand rupees in the aggregate:] 5
Provided that where such receipts relate to winnings from races including
horse races, the provisions of this clause shall have effect as if for the
words" five thousand rupees", the words" two thousand five hundred rupees" had
been substituted: Provided further that this clause shall not apply to-
(i) capital gains chargeable under the provisions of section 45; or
1\. Inserted by the Taxation Laws (Amendment) Act, 1970 w. e. f. 1- 4- 1971
2\. Inserted by the Finance Act, 1992, w. e. f. 1- 4- 1993. Earlier, clause
(2A) was inserted by the Direct Tax Laws (Amendment) Act, 1987, w. e. f. 1- 4-
1989 but was omitted by the Direct Tax Laws (Amendment) Act, 1989, with effect
from the same date.
3\. Substituted by the Finance Act, 1972, w. e. f. 14- 1972. Section 59 of the
said Finance Act has made the following special provision in this regard:" 59.
Certain casual and non- recurring receipts not to be included in the total
income for the assessment year 1972 - 73.- Notwithstanding the amendments made
by this Act to the Income- tax Act, in computing, in the case of any person,
the total income of a previous year relevant to the assessment year commencing
on the 1st day of April, 1972, any income falling within clause (3) of section
10 of the Income- tax Act as it stood immediately before the 1st day of April,
1972, shall not be included."
4\. Substituted for' not being winnings from lotteries, to the extent such
receipts do not exceed one thousand rupees in the aggregate' by the Finance
Act, 1986, w. e. f. 1- 4- 1987.
5\. Substituted for' Provided that' by the Finance Act, 1992, w. e. f. 1- 4-
1992.
(ii) receipts arising from business or the exercise of a profession or
occupation; or
(iii) receipts by way of addition to the remuneration of an employee;] I[]
(4) 3 (i) in the case of a non- resident, any income by way of interest on
1\. The word' or' omitted by the Finance Act, 1992, w. e. f. 1- 4- 1992.
Earlier, it was inserted by the Finance (No. 2) Act, 1991, w. e. f. 1- 10-
Rubber Act, 1947 (24 of 1947 ),
(ii) in relation to coffee, the Coffee Board constituted under section 4 of
the Coffee Act, 1942 (7 of 1942 ),
(iii) in relation to cardamom, the Spices Board constituted under section 3 of
the Spices Board Act, 1986 (10 of 1986 ),
(iv) in relation to any other commodity specified under this clause, any Board
or other authority established under any law for the time being in force which
the Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, specify
in this behalf.]
1\. Inserted by the Taxation Laws (Amendment) Act, 1970, w. r. e. f. 1- 4-
1969.
4\. Inserted by the Finance Act, 1984, w. e. f. 1- 4- 1985.
5\. Substituted for" Income- tax" by the Direct Tax Laws (Amendment) Act,
1987, w. e. f. 1- 4- 1988.
6\. Ibid.
7\. Inserted by the Finance Act, 1988, w. e. f. 1- 4- 1989.
