Gujarat High Court
Cadbury Ltd. And 2 vs Itc Ltd. And 1 on 20 July, 2005
Author: H Devani
Bench: H Devani
JUDGMENT H.N. Devani, J.
1\. This plaintiffs' appeal is directed against the order of the learned City
Civil Judge, Ahmedabad, dated 16th May 2005, rejecting the plaintiffs' Notice
of Motion for grant of temporary injunction.
2\. The appellants No. 1, 2 and 3 are the original plaintiffs No. 1, 2 and 3
in the suit and the respondents are the original defendants. (For the sake of
convenience, the appellants and the respondents are referred to as the
plaintiffs and defendants respectively.
3\. The facts leading to this appeal are that the plaintiffs No. 1 and 3 are
Companies incorporated under the laws of the United Kingdom, whereas the
second plaintiff is a Company incorporated under the Indian Companies Act,
1913. Cadbury Schweppes Plc. is a Company incorporated under the laws of
United Kingdom, carrying on business as manufacturers, sellers and exporters
of inter alia confectionery, beverages and other allied products. Cadbury
Schweppes Plc., the plaintiffs and other affiliated companies incorporated in
different countries of the world form a group of companies known as Cadbury
principles while refusing temporary injunction, this Court can certainly
interfere in these interlocutory proceedings. Moreover, this Court has in
relation to the issue of deceptive similarity as well as prior use held that
the findings of fact recorded by the Trial Court are perverse, hence, the
facts and circumstances of the case warrant interference with the discretion
exercised by the Trial Court. Point No. 1 is decided accordingly.
25\. In conclusion, this Court is of the view that the Trial Court has not
applied the principles as regards grant of injunction correctly. The Trial
Court has also ignored relevant evidence on the record while recording
findings of fact on various issues. Accordingly, the exercise of discretion by
the Trial Court can be said to be arbitrary as well as perverse. The Trial
Court has failed to exercise its discretion reasonably and in a judicial
manner justifying interference at the hands of this Court.
26\. In the result the appeal succeeds. The impugned judgment and order is
quashed and set aside. The Respondents/Defendants are restrained from using in
relation to its CANDYMAN CHOCO ECLAIRS of the Re. 1/- variety the impugned
different countries of the world form a group of companies known as Cadbury
Schweppes group.
3.1 The first defendant is a Company incorporated under the Indian Companies
Act, 1913 and carries on the business, inter alia, as manufacturers and
sellers of cigarettes/tobacco, confectionery, food articles, etc., and is the
alleged owner of the trademark "Candyman/Candyman Choco Éclairs" and the
second defendant is, inter alia, a manufacturer of confectionery items and is
the manufacturer of "Candyman Choco Éclairs".
3.2 It is the case of the plaintiffs that the second plaintiff introduced a
product under the name "Cadbury Chocolate Éclairs/Éclairs" in India in the
year 1972, in respect of the which it had got a label mark prepared, which was
registered as a trade mark. The said label mark was slightly modified by the
second plaintiff and the same was also registered and the said registration is
valid and subsisting. That, in or about June 1994, the second plaintiff
modified the soft chocolate cream centre of CADBURY CHOCOLATE ÉCLAIRS with
CADBURY DAIRY MILK milk chocolate centre which is a milk chocolate of a
particular specification unique to the Cadbury Schweppes Croup, the unique
characteristic being that the chocolate is processed directly from cows' milk
along with the other ingredients. That, in keeping with the traditional trade
dress of purple and/or purple and gold always associated with CADBURY DAIRY
MILK milk chocolate of the Cadbury Schweppes group Companies, a new design of
the trade dress of Cold and Purple was devised for the product which was
relaunched to the consumers as CADBURY DAIRY MILK ÉCLAIRS.
3.3 It is the case of the plaintiffs that the trade dress for their chocolate
products and products containing chocolate such as Éclairs has consistently
been the purple and gold colour combination, bearing the registered trademark
CADBURY in a distinctive stylized form on it. That, similarly, the plaintiffs
and its group Companies the world over have been using the purple and gold
colour combination on their labels of chocolate confectionery products,
including the second plaintiffs' 'Eclairs' having the distinctive 'Dairy Milk'
milk chocolate centre. It is further the case of the plaintiffs that the said
label has a distinctive colour scheme, get up and lay out and that the same
has been extensively used by the second plaintiff and that the said products
have been advertised under the said trade marks and label marks on an
extensive scale. Consequently, the said label marks and the said trade marks
have come to be associated by the traders and members of the public
exclusively with the plaintiffs. That, the word "Cadbury" written in a
specialized stylized manner in gold colour with a purple background is
distinctive and has acquired distinctiveness. Similarly, the plaintiffs'
label, being Ex.9 (item No. 9 in the list of Documents Exhibit 4 filed with
the pliant) has acquired distinctiveness and the same have come to be
associated by the traders and members of the public exclusively with the
plaintiffs. The marks "Cadbury", "Cadbury Chocolate Éclairs" and "Cadbury
Dairy Milk Éclairs" have become a household mark in India.
3.4 It is the case of the plaintiffs that in or about March, 2005, the
plaintiffs' representative came across a product of the defendants sold under
the mark "Candyman Choco Eclairs", and found that the defendants had adopted
an identical colour scheme, get up and lay out in respect of their mark as
that of the plaintiffs and the manner of writing of the words "Candyman" and
"Éclairs" were also identical and/or deceptively similar to that of the
plaintiffs. That, the plaintiffs learnt that not only were the defendants'
product "Candyman Choco Eclairs" and the plaintiffs' products "Cadbury Dairy
Milk Eclairs" sold by the traders in the same shop but that the products for
sale were kept in the same transparent plastic jar containers of "Cadbury
Dairy Milk Eclairs" provided by the second plaintiff. On making further
inquiries in the market place, and on referring to the first defendant's
website and annual report of 2004, the plaintiffs came to know that the
defendants' product "Candyman Choco Eclairs" was launched in 2003 with an
orange and gold wrapper. However, it appears that towards the end of the year
2004, the defendants changed their wrappers and labels to the impugned label,
Ex.12. It is alleged that the defendants have adopted the mark "Candyman Choco
Eclairs" and the impugned label, Ex.12, with a deliberate and malafide intent
with a view to trade upon the reputation acquired by the plaintiffs in respect
of their chocolates and confectionery, and especially that of their well known
colour scheme, get up, lay out and the distinctive trade dress of "Cadbury
Dairy Milk Eclairs".
3.5 It is the case of the plaintiffs that, by using the mark "Candyman Choco
Eclairs", the defendants have infringed and/or are continuing to infringe the
plaintiffs' registered trade marks bearing Nos. 15813, 318934, 327607 and
353398. That, the impugned mark as shown in Ex.12 is deceptively similar to
the plaintiffs' registered trade marks. That, by using the impugned mark
"Candyman Choco Eclairs", as shown in Ex.12, the defendants have infringed
and/or are continuing to infringe the plaintiffs' aforesaid registered marks.
That, the traders and members of the public have come to associate the
aforesaid trade marks as also the device marks in respect of which the
application for registration is pending under No. 13391 85, exclusively with
the plaintiffs. That, the defendants, by using the impugned marks "Candyman
Choco Eclairs" in the same letter and style as that of the plaintiffs, are
passing off their goods as and for the goods of the plaintiffs. That the
impugned mark, Ex. 12 is deceptively similar to the aforesaid trade marks of
the plaintiffs.
3.6 In the aforesaid circumstances, the plaintiffs have filed the present suit
for restraining the defendants by way of perpetual injunction from in any
manner using in relation to any chocolates or confectionery or any chocolates
either plain or containing nuts, fruits, raisins, caramel, nougat etc.,
chocolate confectionery or any type of confectionery the impugned mark
"Candyman" and/or "Candyman Choco Eclairs" and/or "Eclairs" or any other
deceptively similar trade marks :
(i) so as to infringe the plaintiffs' registered trade marks bearing Nos.
15813, 318934, 327607 and 353398;
(ii) so as to pass off or enable others to pass of the defendants' goods as
that of the plaintiffs' goods;
(iii) so as to infringe the plaintiffs' artistic work; and
(iv) for other consequential reliefs.
3.7 It is the case of the plaintiffs that there is no delay on the part of the
plaintiffs in filing the suit. That, the plaintiffs came to know about the
impugned label of the defendants in March 2005. That, the adoption of the
impugned label by the defendants is dishonest as the defendants were aware of
the plaintiffs' trade marks and the plaintiffs' label, and there are no
equities in favour of the defendants. It is the case of the plaintiffs that
the goods in respect of which the impugned label is used are available across
the counter at the same price of Re. 1/- each and particularly the manner of
keeping the defendants' goods and the plaintiffs' goods in the same container
of the plaintiffs, will cause deception and confusion, especially to children
who are frequent consumers of the said confectionery products. That, unless
the aforesaid reliefs are granted, grave and irreparable loss and harm will be
caused to the plaintiffs.
4\. A Notice of Motion was also moved by the plaintiffs, for grant of
temporary injunction restraining the defendants from using the mark "Candyman"
and/or "Candyman Choco Eclairs" and/or "Eclairs" or any other deceptively
similar trade marks so as to infringe the plaintiffs' registered trade marks.
It was also prayed that the defendants be restrained from using the identical
or similar trade mark so as to pass off or enable others to pass of the
defendants' goods as that of the plaintiffs' goods. It was also prayed that
defendants, their agents, servants, may be restrained from using the impugned
labels or any other identical deceptively similar labels or any other
colourable imitation or substantial reproduction of the plaintiffs' artistic
work.
4.1 By an order dated 1st April 2005, the trial Court had granted exparte
interim injunction in terms of paragraph No. 35(A) and 35(B) of the Notice of
Motion.
4.2 The defendants preferred appeal from the said order dated 1st April 2005,
and this Court, by its order dated 7th April 2005, while refusing to vacate
the said order, directed the Notice of Motion to be heard on a day-to-day
basis and to be completed by 16th May 2005. However, it was made clear that
there is no restraining order in respect of any other products of the
plaintiffs except the defendants "Candyman Choco Eclairs" sold for Rs. 1/- in
retail.
5\. In response to the suit and injunction application, the defendants filed a
written statement opposing the suit. It is the case of the defendants as
stated in the written statement, that the suit and injunction deserve to be
dismissed on the ground of lack of jurisdiction and lack of cause of action.
That, the plaintiffs' have failed to make out a prima facie triable case.
That, the trade mark of the defendant No. 1 is "CANDYMAN", whereas the
plaintiffs' is "CADBURYS". That, the term "eclairs" is generic and common to
the trade and the plaintiffs cannot claim exclusive rights to the same. Hence,
no case of infringement of registered trade mark is made out by the
plaintiffs. That, the colour scheme of purple and gold in the wrapper of the
plaintiff, which is claimed to be its distinctive trade dress is the sole
basis of the present action of passing off.
5.1 It is also the case of the defendants that the plaintiffs have no
exclusive right in the word 'eclairs' and/or in respect of wrappers/packing
for Eclairs which have the combination of purple and gold colours. That, the
plaintiffs do not hold any registration under the Trademarks Act which give
them exclusive rights in the colour purple or the colour combination of purple
and golden. That, a number of competitors have been using the purple colour as
well as the colour scheme of purple and golden for their eclair products
openly, continuously and extensively. That the plaintiffs have not obtained
any registration that go to protect the combination of purple with golden
colour. That the plaintiff No. 1 has made an application for registration of
its latest label as recent as February 2005 but the application does not make
any claim for the protection of any specific colour or colours.
5.2 It is the case of the defendants that, in order to ascertain the actual
likelihood of confusion and deception, the defendants had engaged an
independent and leading market research company, M/s IMRB International to
conduct a research amongst consumers in Ahmedabad. That, the said survey
revealed that 95% of the potential consumer did not have any confusion in
identifying CADBURY DAIRY MILK ECLAIRS when asked to do so from amongst
eclairs of others, including the defendant No. 1. That the instances of
confusion were extremely negligible, and such stray instances of confusion
were in relation to products of many other competitors of the plaintiffs.
5.3 It is the case of the defendants that the impugned label/wrapper of the
defendant No. 1 is distinct from the label/wrapper of the plaintiffs. The
wrapper of the plaintiffs' product comprises of a middle section being gold,
flanked on both the sides by purple bands with lines passing through the said
purple band. The words "CADBURY'S DAIRY MILK ECLAIRS" appear prominently in
the centre of the golden band in the middle portion of the wrapper. The
plaintiffs sell the said product in either poly pouches which are partly
transparent with a purple colouring on all sides on the pouch. The words
"Cadbury Dairy Milk" appearing prominently on the same. The plaintiffs also
sell the products in transparent jars bearing a label on which the word
"Cadbury's Dairy Milk Eclairs" appear prominently. The wrapper of CANDYMAN
Choco Eclairs is golden in colour and the same comprises of the words
"CANDYMAN" written in a stylised manner in capital letters written
conspicuously on top followed by the words "Choco" and the word "Eclairs"
written beneath in a unique stylised font. The said elements of the wrapper
are flanked on both sides by 2 white wave lines on the sides of the wrapper.
That the brand name "CANDYMAN" appears multiple times on the wrapper as used.
That, the trademark of the plaintiff is CADBURYS, whereas that of the
defendant No. 1 is CANDYMAN. There is no visual, structural or phonetic
similarity between the two marks. That, the golden colour which finds
predominance in the defendant's label signifies and indicates a premium
product. That, as such there is no deceptive similarity in the marks of the
plaintiff and the defendant and that there is no likelihood of confusion in
the minds of the consumers, and accordingly, the suit is required to be
dismissed.
6\. The trial Court, after considering the rival submissions and perusing the
documentary evidence, observed that though the plaintiffs have filed the case
for infringement and passing off, but during the course of arguments, it has
become clear that the main stress of the plaintiffs is regarding trade dress.
The trial Court found that :
1\. the plaintiff has failed to establish prior use;
2\. there are no deceptive similarities, and the trade dress is not so similar
that it may cause confusion in the mind of buyers;
3\. the plaintiff has come with ambiguous pleadings; and
4\. the balance of convenience is not in favour of the plaintiffs, but, tilts
in favour of the defendants.
Accordingly, the Trial Court dismissed the Notice of Motion with a direction
to the defendants to produce their half-yearly accounts regularly in the month
of April and October, every year, to the Trial Court.
7\. By its order dated 7th April 2004, passed in the Appeal from Order
preferred by the Defendants against the exparte interim injunction, this
Court, on the basis of a consensus arrived at between the parties, had
directed as follows:
"The appellants will file their written statement before the Trial Court on or
before 15th April 2005. The respondents will file their rejoinder on or before
19th April 2005."
Accordingly, it appears that after the Defendants filed their written
statement, the Plaintiffs filed an Affidavit in rejoinder. Subsequently an
affidavit made by an employee of the Plaintiff company was filed on behalf of
the Plaintiffs, and an additional affidavit was filed on behalf of the
Defendant No. 1. The Plaintiffs also filed a reply to the said additional
affidavit, all of which appear to be forming part of the record before the
Trial Court.
8\. Heard, Mr. Dushyant Dave, learned Senior Advocate for the
appellant/Plaintiff. Mr. T.R. Andhyarujina learned Senior Advocate for the
Defendant No. 2, Mr. S.B. Vakil, learned Senior Advocate for the Defendant No.
1. Mr. Mihir J. Thakore made submissions on behalf of the Plaintiff in
rejoinder.
8.1 Mr. Dushyant Dave, learned Senior Advocate appearing on behalf of the
appellants submitted that the impugned order passed by the Trial Court is
wholly perverse and against the well known canons of exercise of the power of
granting interim injunctions. Placing reliance upon the decision of the
Supreme Court in the case of Colgate Palmolive v. Hindustan Lever, , it was
submitted that that interim applications are not expected to be converted into
mini-trials and that an order of injunction must follow if triable issues are
raised. It was submitted that undisputedly triable issues were raised before
the Trial Court, hence, the appellant/Plaintiff was entitled to an order of
injunction.
8.2 Learned Counsel argued that interim relief is required to be granted to
protect honest traders, and that the denial thereof by the Trial Court, has
resulted in encouraging dishonesty.
8.3 It was submitted that the Trial Court had erroneously appreciated the
facts of the case in recording in paragraph 1 of the judgment that the
appellant/Plaintiff has adopted its label in the first place in March 1998,
whereas the appellant/Plaintiff had adopted the first label with its gold and
purple trade dress in June 1994 as clearly set out in paragraph 13 of the
plaint and that a copy of the label had been annexed as Ex-9 to the rejoinder
affidavit. The learned counsel referred to the copies of the wrappers adopted
by the Plaintiff at Ex. 8 and 9 and submitted that essentially the issue in
question at present is confined to an action of passing off.
8.4 Referring extensively to the contents of paragraph 13, 14, 15 and 16 of
the plaint, it was pointed out that there was no ambiguity in the pleadings
and that, on a plain reading of the facts as stated in the said paragraphs it
is clear that the Plaintiffs had started using the gold and purple wrapper
since June 1994 when the 2nd Plaintiff modified the soft chocolate cream
centre of CADBURY'S CHOCOLATE ECLAIRS with CADBURY DIARY MILK milk chocolate
centre which is a milk chocolate of a particular specification unique to the
Cadbury Schweppes group, the unique characteristic being that the chocolate is
processed directly from cows milk along with other ingredients. It was
submitted that in keeping with the traditional trade dress of purple and/or
purple and gold always associated with Cadbury Diary Milk milk chocolate of
the Cadbury Schweppes group companies, a new design of the trade dress of Cold
and Purple was devised for the product which was re-launched to the consumers
as Cadbury Diary Milk Eclairs. The new wrapper was designed for the 2nd
Plaintiff by Lintas India Ltd. and that the artistic work on the wrapper was
changed from time to time. In 1998 the artistic work was created by Ogilvy &
Mather Private Limited, Mumbai, an advertising company, which was used as a
wrapper or a label in which the 2nd Plaintiff's confectionary Cadbury Diary
Milk Eclairs was packed and sold. That, thereafter in or about September, 2003
the Plaintiff engaged the services of Contract Advertising (India) Private
Limited, Mumbai, an advertising company, for creating a new artistic work
which was to be used by the Plaintiff for its product Cadbury Diary Milk
Eclairs. An employee of the said company created an artistic work, which was a
slight variation of the earlier artistic work, while retaining the gold and
purple colour scheme. That, the said artistic work was used as a wrapper or a
label in which the 2nd Plaintiff's confectionary Cadbury Diary Milk Eclairs is
presently sold and packed. The learned Counsel also referred to and relied
upon the contents of paragraph 24.9 of the written statement to submit that
the label of 1 994 was not denied by the Defendants.
8.5 Referring to paragraph 105 of the impugned judgment, it was contended that
the Trial Court had completely misread and ignored the visual similarity
between the marks Cadbury and Candyman where the first two letters in both the
marks are the same and the letter 'D' appearing third in Cadbury is appearing
fourth in Candyman and the words when written in the same purple colour in
small letters on a small pack which is approximately one inch in length and
half an inch in breadth with a small area of display panel would be
deceptively similar when used on the same type of product i.e. sugar candy
such a eclairs in the market place along with the word eclairs.
8.6 It was emphasized that the Trial Court had completely disregarded the oral
and written submissions made by the Plaintiffs that the complete text Candyman
Choco Eclair and Cadbury Diary Milk Eclairs written in purple colour on a
golden coloured background on the rival labels mentioned in three separate
rows one below the other on the small labels of each individual wrapper there
would be confusing similarities between the two labels which would easily
deceive consumers, especially young children who are predominant purchasers of
these products.
8.7 While contending that what has to be seen is as to whether the discretion
has been exercised judicially and reasonably, it was submitted that the
finding recorded by the Trial Court is perverse in view of what has been
stated in paragraph 24.11 of the written statement wherein it has been stated
on behalf of the Defendants that "Copies of the Plaintiff No. 2's packing
material as used over a period of time had been filed as Item No. 10 in the
separate list of documents filed". Referring to Item No. 10 of the said list,
the learned Counsel pointed out the copies of the poly pouches as well as
wrappers of the Plaintiffs' Cadbury Diary Milk Eclairs in the purple and gold
combination, which as per the say of the Defendants had been used by the
Plaintiff No. 2 over a period of time and emphasized that as per the
Defendants' own say, the Plaintiff No. 2 has been using the purple and gold
label over a period time. While submitting that the case of the Defendant as
stated in 24.13 of the written statement was that the Defendant had started
using the impugned purple and gold label only with effect from October 2004,
it was contended that even from the facts stated by the Defendant, it was
apparent that the Plaintiff No. 2 had adopted its purple and gold label much
prior to the adoption of the impugned label by the Defendant.
8.8 While contending that the conduct of the Defendant was also required to be
seen, it was pointed out that the Defendant was well aware of the Plaintiffs'
purple and gold label and that it was obvious that the Defendant had adopted a
deceptively similar label for its Candyman Choco Eclairs with a view to trade
upon the reputation acquired by the Plaintiffs in respect of their chocolates
and confectionary and especially of their well known colour scheme, get up,
lay out and the distinctive trade dress of Cadbury Diary Milk Eclairs.
8.9 It was further submitted that in intellectual property matters delay is of
no consequence and that injunction must be granted. It was also submitted that
independent surveys cannot be looked into at injunction stage.
8.10 The learned Senior Advocate cited the following decisions in support of
his arguments:
(i) The decision of the Supreme Court in the case of Ruston and Hornby Ltd. v.
Zamindara Engineering Co., was cited for the proposition that in a passing off
action the issue is as to whether the defendant is selling goods so marked as
to be designed or calculated to lead purchasers to believe that they are the
plaintiffs goods.
(ii) The decision of the Supreme Court in the case of Laxmikant V. Patel v.
Chetanbhai Shah, , was cited for the proposition that the law does not permit
any one to carry on his business in such a way as would persuade the customers
or clients in believing that the goods or services belonging to someone else
are his or are associated therewith. It is stated in the said decision that
"It does not matter whether the latter person does so fraudulently or
otherwise. The reasons are two. Firstly, honesty and fair play are, and ought
to be, the basic policies in the world of business. Secondly, when a person
adopts or intends to adopt a name in connection with his business or services
which already belongs to someone else it results in confusion and has
propensity of diverting the customers and clients of someone else to himself
and thereby resulting in injury".
(iii) The decision of the Supreme Court in the case of Midas Hygiene
Industries (P) Ltd. v. Sudhir Bhatia, , 5 was cited for pointing out that it
was a well settled proposition of law that in cases of infringement either of
trade mark or of copyright, normally an injunction must follow. That, mere
delay in bringing action is not sufficient to defeat grant of injunction in
such cases. That, grant of injunction also becomes necessary if it prima facie
appears that the adoption of the mark is itself dishonest.
9\. Mr. T.R. Andhyarujina, learned Senior Advocate appearing on behalf of the
respondent No. 2 submitted that the case at hand is not one of infringement of
trade mark but a passing off action. That, what has been alleged to be passed
off is a wrapper. It was submitted that in order to establish a passing off
action it is necessary to prove the following:
1\. Credible prior use has to be substantiated by the Plaintiffs' own
pleadings. That, the learned judge has found no prior use.
2\. That, there is a distinctive wrapper, so distinct that it is appropriately
attached to their goods.
3\. That distinctiveness should give them a good will.
4\. They must establish that the Defendants' wrapper is deceptively similar.
5\. They must prove some damage as a result of the Defendants' wrapper.
9.1 The learned Counsel submitted that the Plaintiffs have not been able to
establish credible prior use as neither do their pleadings unambiguously state
as to when the labels came into existence, nor is there any clear statement as
to which was the wrapper that was alleged to be passed off and as to what was
the precise date when the same came to be marketed. Referring to the contents
of paragraph 13 of the plaint, the learned Counsel submitted that the label
had not been produced with the plaint. Reference was also made to paragraph
24.11 of the rejoinder filed by the Plaintiff to submit that the invoices
produced in support of telecast of advertisement of Cadbury Diary Milk Eclairs
as well as the copies of Central Excise invoices produced in support of
clearance of Cadbury Diary Milk Eclairs did not by any means support the case
of the Plaintiff as there was nothing to connect the said invoices with the
Plaintiffs' label in respect of which passing off is alleged. Emphasizing that
there is no statement in the entire pleadings that this is the label produced
by Lintas and that the Plaintiff was using it since then, the learned Counsel
submitted that the Supreme Court has held that such ambiguous material cannot
be the foundation of prior use. It was urged that the label Ex.-8 was produced
before the High Court for the first time, and that before the Trial Court some
other document had been produced. It was submitted that there is laxity in the
fundamental basis of the Plaintiffs' pleadings, which could not be condoned.
9.2 Referring to the label/wrapper produced at Ex.9, the learned Counsel
submitted that there is no statement as to when Cadbury's gold and purple
wrapper came on the scene. The Learned counsel also referred to the label
produced at Ex.7 and submitted that the same was a black and white label
wherein the period of use was shown to be 1st December 1994, however, the said
label was not clear about the colour. Ultimately it was submitted that there
was no clear conception as to what is the wrapper and since when it has come
into play, hence, the Plaintiffs have not made out any prima facie case which
would merit the grant of injunction in their favour.
9.3 It was contended that the most important thing that the Plaintiffs were
required to prove was distinctiveness and that there was nothing distinctive
about the Plaintiffs' wrapper. It was pointed out that the jars and pouches
used by the Plaintiff were predominantly purple. That, there are in all 29
producers, who use a combination of purple and gold. Reliance was placed upon
the documents at page 227 to 233 to point out that several other companies
were wrapping similar goods in gold and purple wrappers like Tiffany's and
Nutrine etc., but the Plaintiff had not initiated any action against them. It
was submitted that Nutrine in fact sells a larger quantity of eclairs than
Cadbury. Referring to paragraph 109 of the impugned order, it was submitted
that the Plaintiffs have not applied for the registration of the golden colour
and that their emphasis was on purple. It was urged that the Plaintiffs have
not made out a case of passing off as the wrappers of the parties are so
distinct and several competitors have been openly and extensively using the
same colour scheme over the years.
9.4 The learned Counsel submitted that the Plaintiffs have failed to establish
that the Defendants' label is deceptively similar to that of the Plaintiffs.
While contending that to arrive at the conclusion as to whether the two
wrappers are deceptively similar one has to find out if there is any
possibility of confusion, it was submitted that in the facts of the present
case, the two wrappers are totally distinct. The learned Counsel submitted
that the Defendants' wrapper is predominantly gold, whereas the Plaintiffs'
wrapper is about 40 to 50% purple. That, in case of the Defendants' label only
the lettering was in purple, whereas in case of the Plaintiffs' label there
was a large proportion of purple on the wings, hence, there was no scope of
confusion. It was submitted that the word Cadburys and Candyman as appearing
on the wrappers of the products sold by the rival parties are different
visually, structurally, phonetically and in all other respects. It was also
submitted that the word Eclair is a generic word and there was nothing
distinctive about it. That, the two wrappers are so distinct that no confusion
can arise. Hence, the Plaintiffs have failed to establish that the Defendants'
wrapper is deceptively similar to that of the Plaintiffs'.
9.5 Reference was also made to the survey report prepared by IMRB
International at the instance of the Defendant No. 1, to submit that an
independent body had carried out a survey and it was found that hardly anyone
mistook the Defendant's eclair to be a Cadbury's eclair.
9.6 The learned Senior Counsel submitted that the Hon'ble Apex Court has held
that the Trial Court's discretion should not be interfered with. Referring to
the findings of fact recorded in paragraph 105 of the impugned order it was
submitted that the Trial Court is entitled to use its discretion and that the
High Court in its appellate jurisdiction should not interfere with the same.
9.7 It was also submitted that the interest of the Plaintiff is safeguarded
when the injury is capable of being redressed by damages and in such cases no
injunction ought to be granted. Accordingly it was submitted that the
Plaintiff had itself assessed the damages at Rs. 10 crores, hence, the injury
if any to the Plaintiffs was capable of being redressed by way of damages,
hence, the Plaintiffs were not entitled to the grant of injunction. Finally it
was submitted that the judgment of the Trial Court was faultless and no
interference was called for on the part of this Court. The learned counsel had
also referred to and relied upon a number of decisions, which are cited
hereinafter.
10\. Mr. S.B. Vakil, learned Senior Advocate appearing on behalf of the
Defendant No. 1, adopted the arguments advanced by Mr. Andhyarujina. He
further submitted that in a passing off action it is only the label in use
that can be considered. It was argued that for the purpose of grant of
injunction the following factors have to be taken into consideration:
1\. Irreparable hardship
2\. Prima facie case
3\. Balance of convenience.
10.1 Insofar as the question of trading on the reputation of the Plaintiff is
concerned, the learned Senior Advocate referred to paragraph 68 of the
impugned judgment wherein the Defendants had relied upon the letter of the
Commissioner, Food and Drug Administration, stating that several prosecutions
had been lodged against the Plaintiff in respect of fungal growth and live
infestation found in some of the Plaintiffs' products, and submitted that the
Defendants did not want to trade on such a reputation of the Plaintiffs.
10.2 It was submitted that in an action of passing off it was necessary for
the Plaintiff to establish prior use. It was submitted that the Plaintiff was
claiming use of the trade dress in respect of Cadbury Diary Milk Eclairs from
1994, however, till date the said label has not been produced. Referring to
the averments made in paragraph 13 and 14 of the plaint, it was submitted that
it is not clear as to since when the label is being used. That, no date has
been mentioned as to when the artistic work was created and when it was used.
Emphasizing that the deed of assignment in respect of the present artistic
work was executed only on 23rd March 2005, i.e., only a week prior to the
filing of the suit, it was submitted that the Plaintiffs have failed to
establish prior use of the label in question and that the Defendant who has
adopted the impugned label from October 2004 has established that it was using
the same prior in point of time than the Plaintiff. It was further submitted
that for the first time the Plaintiff had produced a copy of the label which
they claimed to be using from 1994 along with the rejoinder filed by them.
Reliance was placed upon a decision of this Court in the case of Hiralaxmi v.
Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation, , wherein it has been held that "contentions
not found among the grounds on which the relief is claimed in the petition, if
they are raised for the first lime in rejoinder affidavit, it will not be
proper to accept such contentions except in exceptional cases". It was
submitted that the said principles apply with stronger force to a suit, hence,
the reliance placed by the Plaintiff upon the rejoinder to say that they have
made out a case is of no avail.
10.3 It was submitted from the averments made in the plaint it is evident that
prior use has not been established. Placing reliance upon the decision of the
Supreme Court in the case of Durga Dutt Sharma v. N.P. Laboratories, , wherein
it has been held that "if the essential features of the trade mark of the
Plaintiff have been adopted by the Defendant, the fact that the get up,
packing and other writing or marks on the goods or packets in which he offers
his goods for sale show marked differences, or indicate clearly a trade origin
different from that of the registered proprietor of the mark would be
immaterial: whereas in the ease of passing off, the Defendant may escape
liability if he can show that the added matter is sufficient to distinguish
his goods from those of the Plaintiff", it was submitted that if origin and
ownership are indicated in the label there is no passing off. It was urged
that whereas the name Cadbury was written on the Plaintiffs' label, the word
Candyman was written on the Defendants' label. That the Plaintiffs product was
Cadbury Diary Milk Eclairs whereas the Defendants product was Candyman Choco
Eclairs, which appeared as such on the labels, hence, the added matter was
sufficient to distinguish the two labels, apart from the fact that the
Defendants wrapper was predominantly gold with the letters in purple, whereas
the Plaintiffs wrapper was about 40 to 50% purple. In the aforesaid premises,
it was submitted that there was no question of deceptive similarity between
the label of the Plaintiff and the Defendant.
10.4 The learned Counsel referred to the provisions of Section 17 of the Trade
Marks Act, 1999 and submitted when a trademark consists of several matters,
its registration confers on the proprietor the exclusive right to the use of
the trade mark taken as a whole. It was contended that the registration of a
trade mark did not confer any exclusive right in the matter forming only a
part of the whole of the trade mark so registered, if the same contains any
matter which is common to trade or is otherwise of a non-distinctive in
character. It was submitted that the purple and gold colour scheme of the
Plaintiffs' wrapper was common to trade and that all manufacturers were using
the same combination of purple and gold for their confectionary products. It
was further submitted that 'choco' and 'eclairs' were not distinctive words
and that 'choco' and 'eclairs' are not essential features of the Plaintiffs'
label. It was also submitted that Cadbury and Candyman are proper names, but
other matters are product names and generic names. It was argued that the word
Eclairs is a generic name and the Plaintiff cannot claim exclusive use of the
same. It was submitted that assuming without admitting that the Plaintiff had
a right to use the label in question, in view of the provisions of Section 17
of the Act, the Plaintiff had no exclusive right to the use of the purple and
gold colour scheme, as well as the words 'choco' and 'eclairs'.
10.5 It was submitted that it was a settled legal position that with a view to
find out as to whether the labels are deceptively similar, the characteristics
of the same are required to be examined and the essential features are
required to be compared. It was further submitted that there is no continuity
of the Plaintiffs' labels. That, the Plaintiff kept on changing labels and has
not disclosed as to when the said labels have actually changed. It was
submitted that the argument on trade dress is based totally on the colour
combination, which is common to trade, hence, the Plaintiff has no prima facie
case and is not entitled to the grant of injunction.
10.6 On the question of balance of convenience, the learned Senior Advocate
submitted that when damages are adequate remedy, interim injunction should not
be granted. It was submitted that the product in question was a common item.
That, if the Defendant sells goods during the pendency of the suit, damages
can be ascertained on the basis of profits. It was argued that the Defendant
had entered the market long before the suit was filed and that if injunction
were granted, the Defendant would have to adopt a new label. It was also
submitted that no injunction should be granted as the same would amount to
decreeing the suit.
10.7 It was further submitted that insofar as the question of public interest
is concerned, no public interest is affected if someone eats a Cadbury Dairy
Milk Eclair or a Candyman Choco Eclair.
10.8 In support of the propositions canvassed on behalf the Defendants the
following decisions were cited:
1\. For the proposition that the appellate Court ought not to interfere with
the exercise of discretion by the Trail Court:
(1) Wander Ltd. v. Antox India P. Ltd. (1990) Supp SCC 727;
(2) N.R. Dongre v. Whirlpool Corporation ;
(3) Maradia Chemicals Ltd. v. Gujarat Electricity Board, 43(2) CLR 1480;
2\. To state the principles governing the grant of interim injunction:
i. Gujarat Bottling Ltd. v. Coca Cola Co. ;
ii. Colgate Palmolive (India) Ltd. v. Hindustan Lever Ltd., .
3\. For the proposition that the "triable issue" test has now been discarded
and that a prima facie case means a relatively stronger case than of the other
side and brighter chances of success:
i. Colgate Palmolive (India) Ltd. v. Hindustan Lever Ltd., ;
ii. S.M. Dyechem Ltd. v. Cadbury (India) Ltd. ;
iii. Uniply Industries Ltd. v. Unicorn Plywood Ltd.,
4\. For the proposition that without the use of a trademark, its' owner does
not derive any right to exclusive use thereof and that, priority of use
determines priority of right:
i. Uniply Industries Ltd. v. Unicorn Plywood Ltd., ;
ii. Duncans Agro Industries Ltd. v. Somabhai Tea Processors (P) Ltd., (1 995)
36 (1) CLR 380.
5\. For the proposition that the marks that are common to trade cannot be
protected as a trademark:
i. Roche & Co. v. G. Manners and Co. ;
ii. J.R. Kapoor v. Micronix India, 1994 Supp 3 SCC 215 iii. Indo Pharma
Pharmaceutical Works Ltd. v. Citadel Fine Pharmaceuticals Ltd., AIR 1998
Madras 347;
iv. S.B.L. Ltd. v. Himalaya Drug Co., ;
v. National Bells Co. v. Metal Goods Mfg. Co., AIR 1971 SC 898;
vi. Rupa & CO. v. Dawn Mills Co. Ltd., ;
vii. Pfizer Products Inc. v. B.L. & Co., 2002 (25) PTC 262;
viii. Rizla Ltd. v. Bryant and May Ltd., (1986) RPC 389;
6\. For the proposition that difference in names is enough to warrant the
public that they are getting one trader's goods and not the others:
i. Kellog Company v. Pravin Kumar Bhadabhai, 1996 PTC (16) 187;
ii. Kaviraj Pandit Durga Dutt Sharma v. Navaratna Pharmaceutical Laboratories,
;
7\. Deceptive similarity in marks:
Pfizer Products Inc. v. B.L. & Co., 2002 (25)PTC 262
8\. For the proposition that in case of doubt no injunction can be given :
Colgate Palmolive (India) Ltd. v. Hindustan Lever Ltd.,
9\. For the proposition that even if the Plaintiff has a prima facie case, the
question of balance of convenience must be considered:
Colgate Palmolive (India) Ltd. v. Hindustan Lever Ltd.,
10\. For the proposition that if damages are adequate remedy to compensate the
Plaintiff, no injunction should be granted:
i. Gujarat Bottling Ltd. V. Coca Cola Co., ii. Colgate Palmolive (India) Ltd.
v. Hindustan Lever Ltd., iii. The Boots Co. Ltd. v. Approved Prescription
Services Ltd., 1988 FSR 45 iv. Gala of London Ltd. v. Chandler Ltd., 1 991 FSR
348 v. Pfizer Products Inc. v. B.L. & Co., 2002 (25) PTC 262
11\. For the proposition that if the Defendant has commenced enterprise the
same is a very valid consideration for refusing injunction:
i. Colgate Palmolive (India) Ltd. v. Hindustan Lever Ltd., ii. Pfizer Products
Inc. v. B.L. & Co., 2002 (25) PTC 262 iii. Wander Ltd. v. Antox India P Ltd.,
1990 (Supp) SCC 727 iv. B D A Breweries & Distilleries Ltd. v. Shree Durga
Distillery, 2002 (25) PTC 704(Karnataka)
12\. For the proposition that a plea raised in rejoinder for the first time is
not proper:
Bai Hiralaxmi v. Municipal Corporation of the City of Ahmedabad, 1967 CLR 198.
11\. In rejoinder, Mr. Mihir J. Thakore, learned Senior Advocate appearing on
behalf of the Plaintiffs, submitted that the questions which arise for
consideration in this appeal are:
1\. What is the scope of the Court in an appeal from order?
2\. Whether the Plaintiff has established prior use of the label in question?
3\. Whether there is any ambiguity in the pleadings?
4\. Whether the two marks are deceptively similar? and
5\. Whether the Plaintiff has a prima facie case and as to in whose favour the
balance of convenience tilts?
11.1 Insofar as the first question is concerned, the learned counsel submitted
that the Supreme Court in the case of Wander v, Antox (supra) does not lay
down an absolute proposition of law that in no case the discretion exercised
by the Court of first instance can be interfered with. It was submitted that
the Court has to consider the record of the case and find out as to whether a
reasonable decision has been arrived at.
11.2 The learned Counsel submitted that the Trial Court has wrongly come to
the conclusion that no prior use has been established. It was submitted that
the Trial Court had refused to grant injunction without proper application of
mind to the relevant aspects arising for consideration and the order could be
termed as perverse so as to call for interference by this Court. To emphasize
that the impugned order suffered from non-application of mind, the learned
Counsel referred to paragraph 112 of the decision and submitted that the
learned judge was referring to the label of the Plaintiff as the impugned
label, whereas it is the Defendants' label that is impugned.
11.3 It was further submitted that the Plaintiffs were only required to
establish prior use of the label in question. It was submitted that, in their
written statement the Defendant's have made a clear cut admission that the
Defendants have started to use the impugned label from October 2004, hence,
the Plaintiffs were only required to prove that their use is prior thereto.
Reliance was placed upon the decision of this Court in the case of Duncans
Agro Industries Ltd. v. Somabhai Tea Processors (P.) Ltd., 1995 (36)(1) CLR
380 in support of the contention that a trader who first goes to the market
with his product under a particular trade mark or trade name as a distinctive
mark, gets the proprietary right to use that mark, to the exclusion of others,
irrespective of the length of user or extent of business. That, even if the
Plaintiff's user was only few months prior to that of the Defendant, the
Plaintiff would be entitled to an injunction restraining the Defendant from
using that mark or a similar mark.
11.4 The learned Senior Advocate submitted that the Defendants have adopted
the gold and purple mark with effect from October 2004, hence, the moment the
Plaintiffs establish from their pleadings and the documents produced by them,
that their adoption of the gold and purple mark is prior to the adoption of
the said mark by the Defendant, the Plaintiffs prior use is made out.
11.5 It was submitted that while the Defendants had accepted the present label
of the Plaintiff, their main contention was that the Plaintiff has not stated
as to when it has started using it. The learned Counsel pointed out that the
Plaintiffs have categorically pleaded in the plaint that they have adopted the
gold and purple wrapper in 1994 and that subsequently the said label had been
modified while retaining the same colour combination.
11.6 The learned counsel submitted that in a passing off action, the Plaintiff
is pleading that the Defendant is seeking to pass off his goods as the
plaintiffs' goods. That the Plaintiffs' user is from 1 994. That, as held by
the Supreme Court in the case of Dhariwal Industries Ltd. v. M.S.S. Food
Products reported in 2005 AIR SCW 1241, the prima facie establishment of prior
user goes a long way in enabling the Plaintiff to claim injunction in an
passing-off action, if the Plaintiff establishes prior user, the Plaintiff
would be entitled to claim injunction.
11.7 The learned Counsel referred to the relief prayed for vide paragraph
38(c) of the plaint, wherein it has been prayed that the Defendants be
restrained from in any manner using in relation to any chocolates or
confectionary etc. the impugned label, being Ex.12 hereto or any other
identical or deceptively similar label so as to pass off the Defendants' goods
as that of the Plaintiffs' goods, as well as to the impugned label Ex.12, and
submitted that the Defendants should not pass of their goods as that of the
Plaintiffs', by using this label.
11.8 The learned Counsel submitted that till 1994 the products marketed by the
Plaintiff were chocolate eclairs. Thereafter, from 1994, the Plaintiff
modified the chocolate cream centre of its chocolate eclairs with dairy milk
chocolate centre, and simultaneously adopted the purple and gold label which
is the trade dress in respect of Dairy Milk products of the Cadbury Schweppes
group. It was submitted that it was only the Dairy Milk products of the
Plaintiffs' which had the gold and purple trade dress and that none of their
other products have this combination. Hence, the gold and purple trade dress
is distinctive of the Plaintiffs' dairy milk products.
11.9 It was submitted that there is a specific pleading in paragraph 1 3 of
the plaint that in June 1 994, the centre of the chocolate underwent a change
and from that period onwards, the wrapper also underwent a change, though the
wrapper has not been produced with the plaint. It was further submitted that
as per the provisions of Order VI Rule 2 of the Civil Procedure Code, the
Plaintiff was required to plead that in June 1994 it has adopted the gold and
purple trade dress, it was not required to plead the evidence in the pleading.
The learned Counsel submitted that the plaint was drafted and settled in
Mumbai, where it is a standard practice in all pleadings filed in the Bombay
High Court to use "crave leave to refer to and rely upon the document when
produced" and that no presumption about non-availability of the document can
be drawn with reference to the document not having been filed with the plaint,
on the basis of such pleading, which was strongly opposed by Mr. Vakil, the
learned Senior Advocate appearing on behalf of the Defendant No. 1.
11.10 The learned Counsel urged that if the pleading is enough, evidence need
not be incorporated and that, in any case the evidence has been produced with
the rejoinder. Referring to the label Ex.9 which was produced with the
rejoinder, the learned Counsel submitted that the said label had been adopted
in 1994. That, the same underwent a slight change in 1998, and the said label,
the artistic work of which was created by Ogilvy and Mather Pvt. Ltd. (India)
was produced as Ex-8 to the plaint. It was submitted that due to oversight, in
the copy given to the Defendant the deed of assignment was annexed as Ex-8. It
was pointed out that both the pleadings as well as the list of documents
submitted along with the plaint referred to Ex.8 as the label created by
Ogilvy and Mather Private Limited. He referred to Ex. 9 which is the present
label in which the products of the Plaintiff are packed and marketed. Learned
Counsel referred to the copy of the actual artistic work at page 62 of
Volume-1 and pointed out that the date of the said work was 23.12.2003. The
learned Counsel referred to the averments made in paragraph 6, 24.9 and 24.10
of the written statement and submitted that the Defendants themselves have
admitted that the Plaintiffs' label changes came about in 1994, 1998 and
September 2003.
11.11 The learned Counsel referred to paragraph 24.11 of the written statement
as well as to the copies of the Plaintiffs' packing material produced as item
No. 10 in the separate list of documents filed by the Defendants. He referred
to the first document of item No. 10 which is the copy of a poly pouch of the
Plaintiffs' Cadbury Diary Milk Eclairs and submitted that though the date of
manufacture is not clear, the Plaintiffs had verified the date from the Batch
No. which can clearly be seen on the pouch, and that the date of packing was
June 2002. Mr. Vakil, learned Senior Advocate, vehemently objected to
consideration of the said submission. The learned Counsel for the Plaintiffs
further submitted that the Defendants' are required to produce the original
when called upon to do so, failing which the Court can draw an adverse
inference. The learned Counsel also referred to the 2nd document at item No.
10 which is a copy of a poly pouch of the Plaintiffs' Cadbury Diary Milk
Eclairs and pointed out that the date of packing was December 2003. The
learned Counsel referred to the 3rd document at item No. 10, bearing copies of
the wrappers of the Plaintiffs' Cadbury Diary Milk Eclairs. The learned
Counsel also referred to the 4th document at item No. 10 which is a copy of
the a poly pouch of the Plaintiffs' Cadbury Diary Milk Eclairs and pointed out
that the date of packing was 10/04 and submitted that on the evidence produced
by the Defendants themselves, the Plaintiff's prior use is established. It was
submitted that the attention of the Trial Court had not been drawn to this
evidence.
11.12 The learned Counsel contended that the Plaintiff is required to show
only prior use and that from the aforesaid evidence which is on the record, it
is evident that the gold and purple wrapper has been used at least from
December 2003 which is prior to the use by the Defendants, from October 2004.
11.13 The learned Counsel referred to the documentary evidence produced by the
Plaintiffs along with a list of documents Exh-49. Referring to the documents
at item No. 4 of the said list, the learned Counsel pointed out that copies of
the labels used in 1 994, 1998 and 2003 had been produced. Learned Counsel
also referred to the documents at item No. 5 and 6 of the said list, which are
the 45th and 48th Annual Reports of the Plaintiff No. 2 Company respectively,
which pertain to the years 1992-93 and 1995 respectively. The learned Counsel
referred to the photographs of the Plaintiffs products in the said Annual
report of the year 1992-93 wherein the Plaintiffs eclairs are wrapped in
wrappers having a combination gold, brown and orange colours and pointed out
that in the year 1992-93 the Plaintiffs were manufacturing and marketing
Cadbury Choco Eclairs which were packed in wrappers having of a combination
gold, brown and orange colours which is borne out by the said photographs. The
learned Counsel then referred to the Annual Reports for the year 1995 wherein
the eclairs were wrapped in wrappers having a combination of gold and purple
colours, and submitted that from 1994, the Plaintiffs had changed the centre
of the eclair to dairy milk chocolate and had adopted the gold and purple
wrapper in keeping with the trade dress of the Plaintiffs' dairy milk
products, which is borne out by the said annual report.
11.14 The learned Counsel urged that it is clear from the pleadings in the
plaint that the center of the Cadbury eclairs was changed from 1994 to Cadbury
Diary Milk chocolate and the label was changed in keeping with the Plaintiffs
trade dress for its dairy milk products and that the photographs contained in
the Annual Report supported the said pleading. The Excise Invoices stating
that the products that were cleared were Diary Milk Eclairs was also produced
on the record. It was submitted that to establish prior use of the gold and
purple label, all the aforesaid documents had been referred to and pointed out
to the Trial Court. It was submitted that the evidences can be connected,
which all go to show the prior use of the Plaintiff. It was submitted that
despite the overwhelming evidence in favour of the Plaintiffs, the said
evidence had been totally ignored by the Trial Court.
11.15 The learned Counsel submitted that the exact date of prior use is not
required to be shown. It was pointed out that there was specific pleading
regarding adaptation of the original wrapper. It was submitted that the claim
of passing off is based on the gold and purple label and not the minor changes
affected therein from time to time. It was argued that error had crept in, in
the findings of the Trial Court on the ground that the exact date of the new
wrapper is not stated.
11.16 On the question as to whether the Defendants label was deceptively
similar to that of the Plaintiffs, the learned Senior Advocate referred to
various decisions including the decisions cited on behalf of the Defendants
and submitted that proposition of law enunciated by the said decisions was
that one has to look as to whether the labels are similar enough to deceive,
one does not have to compare the two marks to find out the dissimilarities.
11.17 The learned Counsel submitted that at this stage he does not say that
the word 'Eclair' is the prerogative of the Plaintiff but that the label has
to be looked at as a whole and that one cannot remove the common and look only
at the dissimilarities. Referring to a copy of the wrapper originally adopted
by the Defendant which is produced at Ex-15 with the list of documents
submitted with the plaint, the Learned Counsel submitted that the words
Candyman were well emphasized on the wrapper and that till October 2004, the
Defendants eclairs were marketed in this wrapper. That in October 2004, the
Defendants changed the wrapper in respect of Re. 1 Eclairs. It was submitted
that by virtue of the change the word Candyman became smaller and Eclairs
became larger. The colour of the wrapper was changed to gold and the lettering
was done in purple. That the center of the label was gold and purple. It was
submitted that in case of the Plaintiffs' label the purple bands would go in
the folding/twist and in the center both the Plaintiffs' as well as the
Defendants' label would remain gold and purple. Referring to the difference in
the poly pouches of products of the parties, it was submitted that people do
not buy these products in pouches or bottles; it is the retailers who do so.
People buy them separately and if placed alongside in a single bottle it would
be impossible to distinguish them. Learned Counsel submitted that the survey
report produced by the Defendant is dated 12th April 2005, i.e. after the suit
was filed and hence, no reliance ought to have been placed upon it. It was
further submitted that even as per the said report, there is a mistake of 5%
out of the small number of people surveyed.
11.18 The learned Counsel referred to the documents produced with the list of
documents Exh 31 to point out that as a colour, the purple colour is
registered and that wrappers of gold and purple are registered. It was
submitted that Cold as a colour per se is not registered, however, the Trial
Court had misconstrued the same to say that gold is not registered. The
learned counsel referred to the various certificates of registration of the
Plaintiffs' mark, including registration of the colour purple as well as
labels in the purple and gold combination in different countries.
11.19 The learned Counsel submitted that when the Defendants' eclairs are sold
in the gold and purple wrappers on the principle of imperfect recollection,
there is every likelihood of deception.
11.20 Insofar as the question of the gold and purple label being common to
trade is concerned, the learned Senior Counsel referred to the Survey Reports
filed by the Defendant as well as to a table prepared by the plaintiffs on the
basis of the said survey reports. The learned Counsel referred to the copies
of the labels produced by the Defendant at pages 227 to 233 and 581 to 587 and
pointed out that though the Trial Court had observed that there are as many as
29 parties manufacturing products which were wrapped in gold and purple
wrappers, the same was factually incorrect as the same wrappers had been
produced several times over, to create an impression that there are many
players marketing their goods in similar wrappers. It was pointed out that
many of the products were not even eclairs. The learned Counsel referred to
the copies of the labels of Eclairs marketed by the all major players in the
market produced at item No. 1 with the list Exh.49 and submitted that none of
them are gold and purple. He referred to the colour of the label of Nutrine
Chocolate Eclairs and pointed out that the same was Brown and Orange. He then
referred to a copy of the packet of Nutrine Eclairs produced by the Defendant
along with its list of documents Exh.29 and pointed out that the pouch was
coloured brown and orange but since the same was empty the colour of the
eclair was not borne out. He then referred to the copy of a poly pouch of
Nutrine Eclairs at page 233 of Vol-II and submitted that this was not the
original wrapper and that it appears that the said eclairs are an imitation
and not the original.
11.21 The learned Counsel submitted that not a single major player in the ORG
Report is copying the Cadburys purple and gold label. That, Candyco that had
adopted the gold and purple label had changed its label. It was submitted that
the decisions relied upon on behalf of the Defendants in respect of common to
trade will have no application to the facts of the present case. It was
submitted that purple and gold is not common to trade as no major player in
the market had adopted the said label. It was further submitted that the
Plaintiff has a subsisting copyright in the label, accordingly a prima facie
case was made out, hence, injunction should be granted which the Trial Court
has not considered.
11.22 During the course of his submissions the learned Senior Advocate had
referred to and/or relied upon the following decisions:
ii. Wander Ltd. v. Antox India P. Ltd., 1990 Supp SCC 727 iii. N.R. Dongre v.
Whirlpool Corporation, iv. Ashokkumar Pandya v. Suyog Co-operative Housing
Society Ltd., (2002)3 GLR 2521 v. Duncans Agro Industries Ltd. v. Somabhai Tea
Processors) P) Ltd., 36(1) CLR 380 vi. Dhariwal Industries Ltd. v. M/s M.S.S.
Food Products, 2005 AIR SCW 1241 vii. Ruston Hornby Ltd. v. Zamindara
Engineering Co., viii. Cadila Health Care Ltd. v. Cadila Pharmaceuticals Ltd.,
ix. Colgate Palmolive Company v. Anchor Health and Beauty Care Pvt. Ltd.,
(2003) 27 PTC 478 Delhi x. Tavener and Rutledge Ltd. v. Specters Ltd., (1959)
RPC 83 xi. United Biscuits (U.K.) Ltd. v. Asda Stores Ltd., (1997) RPC 513
xii. Lever v. Goodwin, 1887 RPC 492 xiii. Colgate Palmolive Ltd. v. Pattron, 1
978 RPC 635 xiv. Kellogg Company v. Pravin Kumar Bhadabhai, 1996 PTC (16) 187
(Delhi) xv. Om Prakash v. Ram Kumar,
12\. The Learned Senior Advocate Mr. S.B. Vakil submitted that on the question
of prior use the Plaintiffs have not amended the plaint. That the date of
commencement of use is part of the case, not the evidence. That, if a case is
not pleaded, no amount of evidence is relevant.
12.1 It was submitted that the Plaintiffs have based their case only on
passing off and not on infringement, hence, the relevant label is the last
label. That all prior labels which are not in use have no relevance and in the
guise of similar colour combination the Plaintiffs cannot make a back-door
entry through prior labels. It was submitted that annual report is not
evidence of use and neither registration nor annual accounts are evidence for
the same. It was submitted that the facts of the case may not be forgotten in
the maze of judgments which have been cited. It was submitted that all the
decisions cited on behalf of the Plaintiff cause confusion and divert the
Court from essential to non-essential factors. That all the maze of case law
is source of confusion and an attempt to deviate the attention of the Court to
the non essentials. It was also submitted that no case of trans-border
reputation is pleaded in the plaint and neither was the same argued before the
Trial Court. It was submitted that trans border reputation has to be
established by pleadings and proof. In conclusion, it was submitted that the
Plaintiffs have no prima facie case and are not entitled to grant of
injunction and that no interference is called for in the exercise of
discretion by the Trial Court.
13\. After the hearing was concluded, both the sides have also submitted
detailed written submissions, which have also been perused and considered.
This matter was heard at length at the admission stage on a day-to-day basis
during the vacation. All the learned counsel appearing for the respective
parties made detailed submissions on the issues in question. Hence, with the
consent of the learned counsel for the parties, this matter is being decided
finally by this judgment.
14\. In the light of the arguments advanced by the learned Counsel for the
parties, the following points can be said to arise for consideration:-
1\. Whether this court as an appellate court should interfere with the
exercise of discretion by the Trial Court?
2\. Whether the Plaintiffs have established prior use?
3\. Whether the pleadings as regards claim of prior use are ambiguous?
4\. Whether the two marks are deceptively similar?
5\. Whether the Plaintiffs' trade dress is distinctive of its products?
6\. Whether the Plaintiff has a prima facie case and as to in whose favour the
balance of convenience tilts?
7\. Whether the Plaintiff is entitled to the grant of injunction?
15\. As regards the first question, interference would be called for only if
this Court reaches the conclusion that the exercise of discretion by the Trial
Court is contrary to the settled principles of grant of a temporary injunction
or that it is arbitrary or perverse.
15.1 In Wander Ltd. V. Antox India (P) Ltd. (1990) Supp SCC 727 the factors to
be considered for grant of an interlocutory injunction in a passing-off action
and the scope of interference by the appellate court with the exercise of
discretion of the court of first instance, were summarized and reiterated as
under:
"14. The appeals before the Division Bench were against the exercise of
discretion by the Single Judge. In such appeals, the appellate court will not
interfere with the exercise of discretion of the court of first instance and
substitute its own discretion except where the discretion has been shown to
have been exercised arbitrarily, or capriciously or perversely or where the
court had ignored the settled principles of law regulating grant or refusal of
interlocutory injunctions. An appeal against exercise of discretion is said to
be an appeal on principle. Appellate court will not reassess the material and
seek to reach a conclusion different from the one reached by the court below
if the one reached by that court was reasonably possible on the material. The
appellate court would normally not be justified in interfering with the
exercise of discretion under appeal solely on the ground that if it had
considered the matter at the trial stage it would have come to a contrary
conclusion. If the discretion has been exercised by the trial court reasonably
and in a judicial manner the fact that the appellate court would have taken a
different view may not justify interference with the trial court's exercise of
discretion."
15.2 In S.M. Dyechem Ltd. V. Cadbury (India) Ltd., the Supreme Court has held
that if wrong principles are applied by the Trial Court under Order 39 Rule 1
of the Civil Procedure Code, the appellate court can certainly interfere in
interlocutory proceedings under Order 39 Rule 1 of the Code. That, when the
Trial Court while refusing temporary injunction applied wrong principles, the
High Court could certainly interfere.
15.3 It has been contended on behalf of the Plaintiffs that an Appeal from
Order is a first appeal from an interlocutory order under Section 104 read
with Order 43 of the Code of Civil Procedure and that as per Order 43, Rule 2,
the Rules of Order 41 (First Appeal) shall apply so far as may be to Appeals
from Orders. Therefore, a duty is cast on the Court in an Appeal from Order to
reassess the complete evidence, as if, it is a Court of first instance and if
it finds after such reassessment that the discretion has been exercised by the
Trial Court reasonably and in a judicial manner, it would not interfere even
if it has a different view of the matter. If on the other hand on reassessment
of evidence it finds that the discretion has been used arbitrarily,
capriciously or perversely that is to say no reasonable person would have,
based on the material, reached that conclusion which is arrived at by the
Trial Court, the Appellate Court would have to interfere and set aside the
order.
15.4 This is an appeal preferred by the appellant against the order of the
Trial Court refusing to grant temporary injunction. This Court will not
lightly interfere with the order of the Trial Court unless the order is shown
to be perverse, capricious or unjust. Similarly, the Court will have to
consider whether the Trial Court, while dealing with the matter has properly
exercised its discretion. Keeping in view the scope of appeal against the
order of temporary injunction as clarified by the rulings quoted above, the
Court will have to assess the merits of the contentions of both sides in this
appeal.
16\. Point No. 2 and 3 are closely interwoven; hence, the same are taken up
together.
16.1 The main plank of the Defendants' objections is that the pleadings are
ambiguous and that it is not clearly stated in the plaint as to since when the
label in respect of which passing off is alleged was put into use by the
Plaintiff and that in absence of any clear pleadings to that effect the
Plaintiffs had failed to establish prior use and were thus not entitled to the
grant of injunction. It is alleged by the Defendants that the Plaintiffs have
been changing their labels from time to time hence; it would be the last
label, which would be the label in respect of which the action of passing off
has been instituted. It is also alleged that from the evidence on record there
is nothing to show that the last label adopted by the Plaintiffs was put into
use prior to October 2004, i.e. the time when the Defendant adopted the
impugned label. The contention raised by the Defendants is that the Plaintiffs
have based their case only on passing off and not on infringement; hence, the
relevant label is the last label. That all prior labels, which are not in use,
have no relevance and in the guise of similar colour combination the Plaintiff
cannot make a backdoor entry through prior labels.
16.2 Upon perusal of the impugned order of the Trial Court, it appears that
the case before the Trial Court has proceeded on the footing that passing off
action is in respect of the gold and purple trade dress of the Plaintiffs and
not merely of the last label adopted by the Plaintiff. In fact the Plaintiffs'
case is based upon the fact that the purple and gold combination is peculiar
to its Cadbury Diary Milk chocolates and it is the infringement/passing off of
this trade dress which has been alleged. Had it been otherwise, there was no
need for the Trial Court or the Defendants to go into the question as regards
the production or non-production of the label of 1994 along with the plaint.
16.3 It would therefore, be necessary to examine on the basis of the pleadings
in the plaint as well as the evidence on record as to whether the Plaintiffs
are able to establish prior use in respect of its purple and gold trade dress.
16.4 The Trial Court has held that the Plaintiffs have come with ambiguous
pleadings, hence it would be necessary to refer to the pleadings to find out
the correctness of the said finding arrived at by the Trial Court. The case of
the Plaintiffs as regards user of the gold and purple trade dress is reflected
in paragraphs 13 to 16 of the plaint, which read as under:
"13. In or about June 1994, the 2nd plaintiff modified the soft chocolate
cream centre of CADBURY'S CHOCOLATE ECLAIRS with CADBURY DAIRY MILK milk
chocolate centre which is a milk chocolate of a particular specification
unique to the Cadbury Schweppes Group, the unique characteristic being that
the chocolate is processed directly from cows milk along with the other
ingredients. In keeping with the traditional trade dress of purple and/or
purple and gold always associated with CADBURY DAIRY MILK milk chocolate of
the Cadbury Schweppes group companies a new design of the trade dress of Gold
and Purple was devised for the product which was relaunched to the consumers
as CADBURY DAIRY MILK ECLAIRS. The new wrapper with the gold and purple colour
scheme was devised for the 2nd plaintiff by Lintas India Ltd. The advertising
agency of 2nd plaintiff and consideration was paid in respect of the artistic
work by the 2nd plaintiff. The plaintiffs crave leave to refer to and rely
upon a copy of the label when produced.
14\. In or about March 1998, the 2nd plaintiff engaged the services of Ogilvy
& Mather Private Limited, Mumbai (hereinafter referred to as "O&M") an
advertising company, for creating an artistic work, which was to be used by
the 2nd plaintiff as a label mark. One, Mr. Siddharth Dutta, an employee of
the said O & M in the course of his employment and as an employee of the said
company, created an artistic work, which artistic work was used as a wrapper
or a label in which the 2nd plaintiff confectionery "Cadbury Dairy Milk
Eclairs" was packed and sold. The 2nd plaintiff have made the necessary
payment to O&M for gelling the aforesaid work created and by a Deed of
Assignment the said O&M assigned their copyright in the said artistic work in
favour of the 2nd plaintiff. Annexed hereto is the said label created by
Ogilvy & Mather-Private Limited, marked as Exhibit 8.
15\. In or about September 2003, the 2nd plaintiff engaged the services of
Contract Advertising (India) Private Limited, Mumbai (hereinafter referred to
as "Contract India") an advertising company, for creating a new artistic work,
which was to be used by the 2nd plaintiff as a label mark for its product
"Cadbury Dairy Milk Eclairs ". Mr. Sunil Khairnar, an employee of the said
Contract India in the course of his employment and as an employee of the said
Company, created an artistic work which was a slight variation of the earlier
artistic work while retaining the gold and purple colour scheme, which
artistic work was used as a wrapper or a label in which the 2nd plaintiff
confectionery "Cadbury Diary Milk Eclairs" is presently packed and sold. The
2nd plaintiff has made the necessary payment to the said Contract India for
getting the aforesaid artistic work created and by a Deed of Assignment the
said Contract India has assigned their copyright in the said artistic work in
favour of the 2nd plaintiff. Annexed and mark as Exhibit-9 is the said
artistic work as a wrapper or label in respect of the 2nd plaintiff products.
16\. The plaintiffs state that their trade dress for their chocolate products
and products containing chocolate such as Eclairs has consistently been the
purple and gold colour combination, bearing the registered trademark CADBURY
in a distinctive stylized form on it. Similarly the plaintiffs and its group
companies the world over have been using the purple and gold colour
combination on their labels of chocolate confectionery products, including the
2nd plaintiffs ECLAIRS having the distinctive DAIRY MILK milk chocolate
centre. The said label has a distinctive colour scheme, get up and lay out.
The device, which is the subject matter of the plaintiffs' application No.
1339185 appears on the said label in the center. The said label has been
extensively used by the 2nd plaintiff. A statement of sales in respect of the
2nd plaintiffs goods sold under the said label mark is filed in this Hon'ble
Court along with the plaint. The plaintiffs advertised the said products under
the said trade marks and label marks on an extensive scale. A statement of the
sales and publicity / sales promotion expenses incurred by the plaintiffs is
annexed as EXHIBIT-10."
16.5 It has been contended on behalf of the Plaintiffs that there is no
ambiguity in its pleading and that the observation of the Trial Court in
paragraph 112 of the judgment that the Plaintiff has not pleaded prior use in
the plaint, but has pleaded the same in the subsequent affidavit is ex-facie
perverse since there is a specific pleading in respect of user of gold and
purple trade dress in paragraph 1 3 of the plaint. It was further contended
that the mere fact that the 1994 label was not produced with the plaint and
produced along with the list of documents produced with the rejoinder cannot
imply that there is ambiguity in pleadings. It was also submitted that the
observation of the Trial Court in paragraph 113 of the judgment that the
Plaintiff has not pleaded as to when the Plaintiff started using the present
label is perverse since the Plaintiff has specifically stated in the plaint
the in September 2003, Plaintiff adapted the label through Contract
Advertising and since then has been using the said label. It was also
contended that this apart, the actual user of the present label is not
relevant since the Plaintiffs are claiming priority on the basis of the trade
mark and trade dress in the form of gold and purple colour combination and
distinctive get-up adopted since 1994 and the subsequent labels are mere
adaptations and that the label adapted and used since 2003 was produced at
Exh-9 to the plaint.
16.6 On a plain reading of the facts stated in the paragraphs 13 to 16 of the
plaint, it is clear that it is the case of the Plaintiffs that they have
adopted the gold and purple trade dress in 1994 which is distinctive of its
Cadbury Diary Milk Chocolate products, when they changed the centre of Cadbury
Chocolate Eclairs with Cadbury Diary Milk chocolate. That, Lintas India Ltd.
devised the initial label in 1994. In 1998, the artistic work was created by
Ogilvy and Mather Private Limited, Mumbai and the said artistic work was used
as a wrapper or label in which the 2nd Plaintiff's confectionary, Cadbury
Diary Milk Eclairs was packed and sold. That, in September 2003, an artistic
work which was a slight variation of the earlier artistic work, while
retaining the gold and purple colour scheme, was created by Contract
Advertising (India) Private Limited, which was used as a wrapper or a label in
which the 2nd Plaintiff's confectionary Cadbury Diary Milk Eclairs is
presently packed and sold. Thus, though it may not have been stated in exact
words as to since when the 2nd Plaintiff started using the aforesaid labels
but the say of the Plaintiff as regards the initial use from 1994, then
subsequent variation in 1998 and lastly in 2003, all the while retaining the
gold and purple colour scheme is quite clear from the pleadings in the plaint.
In the case of Syed Dastagir v. T.R. Gopalakrishna Setty , the Supreme Court
has held as follows:
"In construing a plea in any pleading, courts must keep in mind that a plea is
not an expression of art and science but an expression through words to place
fact and law of one's case for relief. Such an expression may be pointed,
precise, sometimes vague but, still it could be gathered what he wants to
convey through only by reading the whole pleading depending on the person
drafting the plea. In India most of the pleas are drafted by counsel hence the
aforesaid difference in pleas which inevitably differ from one to the other.
Thus, to gather the spirit behind the plea it should be read as a whole. This
does not distract one from performing his obligations required under a
statute. But to test whether he has performed his obligations, one has to see
the pith and substance of a plea. Where a statute requires any fact to be
pleaded then it has to he pleaded maybe in any form. The same plea may he
stated by different persons through different words; then how could it he
constricted to be only in any particular nomenclature or word. Unless a
statute specifically requires a plea to he in any particular form, it can he
in any form."
The Supreme Court in the case of Hari Singh v. Kanhaiya Lal, , while dealing
with the question of sub-letting, wherein the testimony of witnesses was
rejected by the High Court mainly on the basis that there was no detailed
pleading pertaining to the period of sub-tenancy and even the witnesses' had
not produced any receipt of payment of rent, observed as follows: "It is not
in dispute that there is pleading that the premises were sub-let. The details,
if any, can be supplemented through evidence."
16.7 Insofar as the question of ambiguity of pleadings is concerned the Trial
Court has dealt with the same in paragraph 112, 113 and 117 of the judgment
which read as under:
"112. In the reply, on the point of prior use, the learned senior counsel for
the plaintiffs has drawn my attention towards the affidavit fried by the
plaintiff, wherein they have staled that when they have started the actual use
of the impugned label. In my humble view, the affidavit filed by the plaintiff
cannot be said pleadings, but it is an evidence and when there is no clear
pleadings regarding the actual use of the impugned label, then the evidence is
of no use. Even the plaintiffs' written submission does not disclose that when
the plaintiffs have started actual use of the impugned wrapper. On the
contrary, the stress by the plaintiffs is on the point that the defendants
have admitted in their written statement para 24.14 that they have started use
of their label in October 2004. But. it is needless to say that in order to
succeed, the plaintiffs have to prove their case and they cannot rely on any
weakness of the defendants. The same view is also taken by the Apex Court in
the case of reported case in in the case of Bondar Singh v. Nihal Singh,
wherein it is held that if there is no pleading, no proof is allowed.
113\. I also find much substance in the submission of the learned senior
counsel for the defendants that the plaintiffs have not pleaded in the plaint
when the plaintiffs have actually started use of new label.
117\. The maxim "Ambiqua responsio contra proferentem est accipienda (An
ambiguous answer is to be taken against the party who offers it) and
Ambiquitas Vervirum patens nulla verificatione excluditur [ A patent ambiguity
is never removed by extrinsic evidence.] are applicable to the facts of the
present case. When the plaintiffs themselves are not clear that when the new
label came into use, in my view, the plaintiffs have failed to establish their
prior use."
As can be seen, the Trial Court has not bothered to refer to paragraph 13 to
16 of the plaint. The only reason given to discard the pleading as regards use
of the label is that the Plaintiffs are not clear in their pleadings as to
when the new label came into use. The Trial Court has observed that there is
no clear pleading regarding actual use of the impugned label and that even the
Plaintiffs' written submission does not disclose as to when the Plaintiffs
have started actual use of the impugned label. In fact as rightly pointed out
by the learned Counsel for the Plaintiffs that it is the label of the
Defendants that is impugned and not that of the Plaintiffs. The Trial Court
has relied upon the decision of the Apex Court in the case of Bondar Singh v.
Nihal Singh , wherein it has been held as follows:
"7. As regards the plea of sub-tenancy (shikmi) argued on behalf of the
Defendants by their learned Counsel, first we may note that this plea was
never taken in the written statement the way it has been put, forth now. The
written statement is totally vague and lacking in material particulars on this
aspect. There is nothing to support this plea except some alleged revenue
entries. It is settled law that in the absence of a plea no amount of evidence
led in relation thereto can be looked into. Therefore, in the absence of a
clear plea regarding sub-tenancy (shikmi), the Defendants cannot be allowed to
build up a case of sub-tenancy (shikmi). Had the Defendants taken such a plea
it would have found place as an issue in the suit. We have perused the issues
framed in the suit. There is no issue on the point. "
The reliance on the aforesaid decision by the Trial Court appears to be
misconceived, because it is nobody's case that there is no plea regarding
prior use. The very fact that passing off is alleged, encompasses within its
fold the plea of prior use. Moreover, the issue regarding prior use has been
discussed and dealt with by the Trial Court itself. In fact there appears to
be a misconception on the part of the Trial Court, since ambiguity of
pleadings was contended only on the ground that the exact date of actual user
of the label was not stated and not that there is no plea as regards prior
use.
16.8 In the aforesaid premises the issue that is required to be addressed is
as to whether pleadings can be said to be ambiguous merely on the ground that
the Plaintiffs had not stated the actual date since when the label had been
put to use in the plaint. As held by the Apex Court in the case of Hari Singh
(supra) once there is a pleading, the details, if any, can be supplemented
through evidence. Upon perusal of paragraphs 1 3 to 1 6 of the plaint, it is
clear that the it is the case of the Plaintiffs that the 2nd Plaintiff has
started using the gold and purple label from 1994 when it changed the centre
of its chocolate eclair to Cadbury Diary Milk Chocolate in keeping with the
trade dress of the Cadbury Schweppes group of companies in respect of its
dairy milk products and that there were slight variations in the artistic work
on the said label from time to time, firstly in 1998 and then in September
2003, all the while retaining the gold and purple colour scheme. Hence, the
finding of the Trial Court that there is ambiguity in the pleadings is
erroneous and contrary to the record of case. Point No. 3 is determined
accordingly.
17\. As regards the issue of prior use, it is a settled legal position that in
an action of passing off, it is a sine qua non for the Plaintiff to prima
facie establish prior use, it being one of the most essential ingredients
thereof. The law on this point is laid down in the case of Duncans Agro
Industries Ltd. V. Somabhai Tea Processors (P) Ltd. (supra) wherein this Court
relying upon decisions of different High Courts has held that "The aforesaid
judgments clearly show that a trader who first goes to the market with his
product under a particular trade mark or trade name as a distinctive mark,
gets the proprietary right to use that mark, to the exclusion of others,
irrespective of the length of user or extent of his business. As is clear from
the judgment rendered by M.P. Thakkar J, in Appeal from Order No. 84 of 1973,
even if the Plaintiff's user was only few months prior to that of the
Defendant, the Plaintiff would he entitled to an injunction restraining the
Defendant from using that mark or a similar mark."
17.1 It is an admitted fact that the Defendant has started using the impugned
label from October 2004, hence, applying the aforesaid principles to the facts
of the present case, the Plaintiff has to only establish user of the trade
dress in respect of which passing off is alleged, prior to October 2004.
17.2 At the cost of repetition it may be stated that it is the case of the
Plaintiff that it has adopted the gold and purple label for its Cadbury Diary
Milk Eclairs since 1994, ever since it changed the centre of its chocolate
eclairs to Dairy Milk Chocolate and that there has been an adaptation of this
trade dress retaining the same colour combination in 1998 and September 2003.
A great deal of stress has been laid on the fact that the Plaintiffs had not
produced the label of 1994 with the list of documents along with the plaint
but with the list of documents produced with the rejoinder, both by the
Defendant as well as the Trial Court. It is settled legal position as held by
the Supreme Court in the case of Gurdial Singh v. Raj Kumar Aneja , that Order
VIII Rule 9 of the Code of Civil Procedure prohibits any pleadings subsequent
to the written statement of a Defendant being filed other than by way of
defence to a set-off or counterclaim except by the leave of the court upon
such terms as the court thinks fit. However, in the facts of the present case
it appears that both the parties have by consensus chosen a different course
of action, as is reflected in paragraph 3(iii) of the order dated 7.4.2005
passed by this court in the appeal from order challenging the ex-parte ad-
interim relief granted by the Trial Court, which reads as under:
"(iii) The appellants will file their written statement before the Trial Court
on or before 15th April 2005, The respondents will file their rejoinder on or
before 19th April 2005."
Hence, it is by consensus that the rejoinder affidavit has been taken on
record along with the list of documents annexed therewith. Once having
permitted the Plaintiffs to file a rejoinder and place on record a further
list of documents, it was not open to the Defendants to contend that the same
cannot be taken into consideration, nor was it open to the Trial Court to
ignore the said evidence on record. Even subsequent to the filing of the
rejoinder affidavit, further affidavits and lists of documents have been filed
by both the sides, which have been referred to and relied upon by the parties
as well as by the Trial Court.
17.3 On the point of prior use, the learned Counsel for the Plaintiff had
drawn the attention of the Trial Court to the affidavit filed by the
Plaintiff, wherein they had stated as to when they have started the actual use
of the label, however, the same has been brushed aside by the Trial Court on
the ground that the affidavit cannot be said to be a pleading but that the
same is in the nature of evidence. That, when there is no clear pleading
regarding actual user, the evidence is of no use.
17.4 As the record reveals, the Plaintiff had also produced the following
evidence to establish prior use:
1\. Excise Invoices showing the removal of "Cadbury Diary Milk Eclairs" of the
year 1994 in support of its case that the said confectionary item had been
introduced for the first time in 1994,
2\. Invoices of advertisement of Cadbury Diary Milk Eclairs on television,
3\. Gold and purple labels adopted in 1994, 1998 and 2003,
4\. Invoice of Contract Advertising dated 27th August 2003 in respect of the
label adapted in 2003,
5\. Photograph in Annual Report for 1992-93 showing Cadbury's Chocolate
Eclairs in Orange and Brown wrapper.
6\. Photograph in Annual Report for 1995, showing Cadbury Diary Milk Eclairs
in Gold and Purple colour 17.5 It is the specific case of the Plaintiff that
it has adopted the gold and purple label since 1994 when it modified the soft
chocolate cream centre of Cadbury's Chocolate Eclairs with chocolate of a
particular specification which was processed directly from cows milk along
with the other ingredients and relaunched the same as Cadbury Diary Milk
Eclairs. It is the case of the Plaintiffs that the new wrapper with the gold
and purple colour scheme was devised by Lintas India Ltd. The label so devised
is produced with the list of documents produced with the rejoinder affidavit.
The Plaintiffs have also produced telecast certificates dated June 1994 in
respect of its Eclairs wherein the agency is Lintas India (Bombay). The
Plaintiff has also produced the excise invoices of September 1994 wherein the
product description is Cadbury's Diary Milk Eclairs. The photographs in the
Annual Reports clearly show the wrappers in 1992-93 to be brown and orange and
in 1995 to be gold and purple. It is true that it is not possible to discern
from the telecast certificates and the excise invoices that the label of the
said product was gold and purple, in colour, but the cumulative effect of all
the evidence read together along with the pleadings certainly points towards
the adoption of the gold and purple label with effect from 1994. However, it
is unfortunate that the Trial Court has not even cared to discuss the
aforesaid evidence which is relevant and has material bearing on the
controversy. The Trial Court has brushed aside the evidence on the specious
ground that the there is no clear pleading regarding actual use of the
impugned label. The evidence in the form of excise invoices has been discarded
by placing reliance upon the decision of the Supreme Court in the case of
Uniply Industries v. Unicorn Plywood Limited (supra), wherein the declaration
made before the excise authorities had been found to be dubious by the High
Court.
17.6 There is another aspect of the matter, as pointed out by the learned
Counsel for the Plaintiff from the evidence produced by the Defendants in the
form of copies of poly pouches of the Plaintiffs' Cadbury Diary Milk Eclairs
in respect of the various adaptations of its gold and purple wrappers,
wherein, in at least two cases, the date of packaging is clearly discernible.
The copy of a poly pouch at page 235 bears the date of packing : 12/03 and
that at page 237 bears the date of packing : 10/04. A bare perusal of the said
copies of the poly pouches show the trade dress of the Plaintiffs' Cadbury
Diary Milk Eclairs to be gold and purple as stated by the Plaintiffs. Thus,
even on the basis of the evidence placed on the record by the Defendants it is
clear that at least in December 2003, the Plaintiffs were using the gold and
purple colour scheme for its Cadbury Diary Milk Eclairs. It is true that the
same was not pointed out to the Trial Court, but the same formed part of the
record before the Trial Court. Maybe that an isolated piece of evidence may
not appear to have any importance, but when the entire material on record is
taken into consideration the cumulative effect of the same would definitely go
to establish the use of the gold and purple trade dress by Plaintiff, at least
from December 2003, which is prior to the use by the Defendant, who admittedly
commenced the use of the impugned label from October 2004. Thus, the finding
of the Trial Court that the Plaintiffs have not established prior use suffers
from legal infirmity in that it has not considered the material on record and
has not assigned any reasons for discarding the same, which can be said to be
both arbitrary and perverse. Once it is found that the Trial Court has ignored
relevant material on record it is not possible to state as to what extent its
mind was vitiated while arriving at the final conclusion and in the
circumstances the order cannot be permitted to stand insofar as this issue is
concerned. Point No. 2 is decided accordingly.
18\. As regards the question as to whether the two marks are deceptively
similar, it is the say of the Plaintiffs that the test to be applied in a
passing off action is the similarity between the competing marks and to
determine whether there is likelihood of deception or causing confusion;
whereas it is the case of the Defendants that the Defendants may escape
liability if they can show that the added matter is sufficient to distinguish
their goods from those of the Plaintiffs.
18.1 As regards the position of law in that regard, it would be necessary to
refer to the case law in respect of the same. On behalf of both the sides
several decisions have been referred to and relied upon as stated hereinabove,
and the Court has perused the same, however, with a view to avoid prolixity,
it is not found necessary to discuss all of them.
1\. The decision in the case of Kaviraj Pandit Durga Dutt Sharma v. Navratna
Pharmacy (supra), wherein the Apex Court was concerned with the validity of
the respondent-firm's claim as registered proprietor of a Trade Mark 'Navratna
Pharmaceutical Laboratories' used by it on its medicinal preparations, was
relied upon on behalf of the Defendants, and more particularly the last few
lines of paragraph 28 thereof which read as under:
"Expressed in another way, if the essential features of the trade mark of the
Plaintiff have been adopted by the Defendant, the fad that the gel-up, packing
and other writing or marks on the goods or on the packets in which he offers
his goods for sale show marked differences, or indicate clearly a trade origin
different from that of the registered proprietor of the mark would be
immaterial; whereas in the case of passing off, the Defendant may escape
liability if he can show that the added matter is sufficient to distinguish
his goods from those of the Plaintiff."
The Plaintiffs have relied upon the following observations in paragraphs 28
and 29 of the said decision:
"...But this apart, as the question arises in an action for infringement the
onus would be on the Plaintiff to establish that the trade mark used by the
Defendant in the course of trade in the goods in respect of which his mark is
registered, is deceptively similar. This has necessarily to be ascertained by
a comparison of the two marks the degree of resemblance which is necessary to
exist to cause deception not being capable of definition by laying down
objective standards. The persons who would be deceived are, of course, the
purchasers of the goods and it is the likelihood of their being deceived that
is the subject of consideration. The resemblance may be phonetic, visual or in
the basic idea represented by the Plaintiff's mark. The purpose of the
comparison is for determining whether the essential features of the
Plaintiff's trade mark are to be found in that used by the Defendant. The
identification of the essential features of the mark is in essence a question
of fact and depends on the judgment of the Court based on the evidence led
before it as regards the usage of the trade. It should, however, be borne in
mind that the object of the enquiry in ultimate analysis is whether the mark
used by the Defendant, as a whole is deceptively similar to that of the
registered mark of the Plaintiff."
2\. On behalf of the Plaintiffs, the decision of the Apex Court in the case of
Ruston and Hornby Ltd. v. Zamindara Engineering Co. (supra) was relied upon
with special emphasis on the following:
"4. The distinction between an infringement action and a passing off action is
important. Apart from the question as to the nature of trade mark the issue in
an infringement action is quite different from the issue in a passing off
action. In a passing off action the issue is as follows:
"Is the Defendant selling goods so marked as to be designed or calculated to
lead purchasers to believe that they are the Plaintiff's goods?"
5\. But in an infringement action the issue is as follows:
"Is the Defendant using a mark which is the same as or which is a colourable
imitation of the Plaintiff's registered trade mark?"
It very often happens that, although the Defendant is not using the trade mark
of the Plaintiff the gel-up of the Defendant's goods may be so much like the
Plaintiff's that a clear case of passing off would be proved."
"7. The two actions, however, are closely similar in some respects. As was
observed by the Master of the Rolls in Saville Perfumery Ltd. v. June Perfect
Ltd. (1941) 58 RPC 147 at p. 161:
"The Statute law relating to infringement of trade marks is based on the same
fundamental idea as the law relating to passing-off. But it differs from that
law in two particulars, namely (1) it is concerned only with one method of
passing-off, namely, the use of a trade mark, and (2) the statutory protection
is absolute in the sense that once a mark is shown to offend the user of it
cannot escape by showing that by something outside the actual mark itself he
has distinguished his goods from those of the registered proprietor.
Accordingly, in considering the question of infringement the Courts have held,
and it is now expressly provided by the Trade Marks Act, 1938, Section 4, that
infringement takes place not merely by exact imitation, but by the use of a
mark so nearly resembling the registered mark as to be likely to deceive." In
an action for infringement where the Defendant's trade mark is identical with
the Plaintiff's mark, the Court will not inquire whether the infringement is
such as is likely to deceive or cause confusion. But where the alleged
infringement consists of using not the exact mark on the Register, but
something similar to it the lest of infringement, is the same as in an action
for passing-off In other words, the test as to likelihood of confusion or
deception arising from similarity of marks is the same both in infringement
and passing-off actions."
3\. On behalf of the Plaintiffs reliance was also placed upon the following
observations of the Supreme Court in the case of F. Hoffmann-La Roche and Co.
Ltd. v. Geoffrey Manners and Co. Private Ltd. (supra) "11. In Parker Knoll
Ltd, v. Knoll International Ltd., 1962 RPC 265 at p. 274, Lord Denning
explained the words "to deceive" and the phrase "to cause confusion" as
follows:
"Secondly, 'to deceive' is one thing. To 'cause confusion' is another. The
difference is this: When, you deceive a man, you tell him a lie. You make a
false representation to him and thereby cause him to believe a thing to be
true which is false. You may not do it knowingly, or intentionally, but still
you do it, and so you deceive him. But you may cause confusion without telling
him a lie at all, and without making any false representation to him. You may
indeed fell him the truth, the whole truth and nothing but the truth, but
still you may cause confusion in his mind, not by any fault of yours, but
because he has not the knowledge or ability to distinguish it from the other
pieces of truth known to him or because he may not even take the trouble to do
so."
The tests for comparison of the two word-marks were formulated by Lord Parker
in Pianotist Co., Ltd., 's application (1906) 23 RPC 774 al p. 777 as follows:
"You must take the two words. You must judge of them, both by their look and
by their sound. You must consider the goods to which they are to be applied.
You must consider the nature and kind of customer who would be likely to buy
those goods. In fact, you must consider all the surrounding circumstances: and
you must further consider what is likely to happen if each of those trade
marks is used in a normal way as a trade mark for the goods of the respective
owners of the marks. If, considering all those circumstances, you come to the
conclusion that there will be a confusion-that is to say, not necessarily that
one man will be injured and the other will gain illicit benefit, but that
there will be a confusion in the mind of the public which will lead to
confusion in the goods-then you may refuse the registration, or rather you
must refuse the registration in that case."
"It is necessary to apply both the visual and phonetic tests. In Aristoc Ltd.
v. Rysta Ltd., 1945 RPC 65 at p. 72, the House of Lords was considering the
resemblance between the two words "Aristoc" and "Rysta". The view taken was
that, considering the way the words were pronounced in English, the one was
likely to be mistaken for the other. Viscount Maugham cited the following
passage of Lord Justice Luxmoore in the Court of Appeal, which passage, he
said, he completely accepted as the correct exposition of the law :
"The answer to the question whether the sound of one word resembles too nearly
the sound of another so as to bring the former within the limits of Section 12
of the Trade Marks Act, 1938, must nearly always depend on first impression,
for obviously a person who is familiar with both words will neither be
deceived nor confused. It is the person who only knows the one word and has
perhaps an imperfect recollection of it who is likely to be deceived or
confused. Little assistance, therefore, is to be obtained from a meticulous
comparison of the two words, letter by letter and syllable by syllable,
pronounced with the clarity to be expected from a teacher of elocution. The
Court must be careful to make allowance for imperfect recollection and the
effect of careless pronunciation and speech on the part not only of the person
seeking to buy under the trade description, but also of the shop assistant
ministering to that person's wants".
It is also important that the marks must be compared as whole. It is not right
to take a portion of the word and say that because that portion of the word
differs from the corresponding period of the word in the other case there is
no sufficient similarity to cause confusion. The true test is whether the
totality of the proposed trade mark is such that it is likely to cause
deception or confusion or mistake in the minds of persons accustomed to the
existing trade mark. Thus in Lavroma case, Tokalon Ltd. v. Davidson and Co.,
32 RPC 133 at p. 136, Lord Johnston said:
"... We are not bound to scan the words as we would in a question of
comparatio literarum. It is not a matter for microscopic inspection, but to be
taken from the general and even casual point of view of a customer walking
into a shop."
It was submitted that the gist of passing off action is deception and
confusion and the principles applicable for comparision of the marks (whether
word mark or label mark or trade dress/getup), whether the marks are likely to
deceive or create confusion as laid down in Ruston Hornby v. Zamindara (supra)
is the same in infringement, passing off and registration of mark. Therefore,
the above tests have to be applied for determining whether the two trade
dresses are deceptively similar or not.
4\. Reliance was also placed upon the following observations made by the Apex
Court in paragraphs 7 and 9 in the case of Amritdhara Pharmacy v. Satya Deo
(supra):
"For deceptive resemblance two important questions are: (1) who are the
persons whom the resemblance must be likely to deceive or confuse, and (2)
what rules of comparison are to be adopted in judging whether such resemblance
exists. As to confusion, it is perhaps an appropriate description of the state
of mind of a customer who, on seeing a mark thinks that it differs from the
mark on goods which he has previously bought, but is doubtful whether that
impression is not due to imperfect recollection (See Kerly on Trade Marks, 8th
edition, p. 400.)"
"9. ...A critical comparison of the two names may disclose some points of
difference but an unwary purchaser of average intelligence and imperfect
recollection would be deceived by the overall similarity of the two names
having regard to the nature of the medicine he is looking for with a somewhat
vague recollection that be had purchased a similar medicine on a previous
occasion with a similar name. The trade mark is the whole thing-the whole word
has to be considered. In the case of the application to register 'Erectiks'
(opposed by the proprietors of the trade mark 'Erector') Farwell, J., said in
William Bailey (Birmingham) Ltd.'s Application (1935) 52 R.P.C. 136:
"I do not think it is right to take a part of the word and compare it with a
part of the other word: one word must be considered as whole and compared with
the other word as a whole.... I think it is a dangerous method to adopt to
divide the word up and seek to distinguish a portion of if from a portion of
the other word."
It was contended that the above principle would apply irrespective of the fact
that marks are word marks or trade dresses/get-up (label marks or composite
marks). The overall effect on the mind of the customer who is likely to buy is
to be seen.
5\. Strong reliance was placed on the decision rendered by a three Judge Bench
of the Supreme Court in the case of Cadila Health Care Ltd., v. Cadila
Pharmaceuticals Ltd., (supra), wherein the Court while dealing with an action
of passing-off, had referred to its earlier decisions in the case of
Amritdhara Pharmacy v. Satya Deo (supra), Kaviraj Durga Dutt v. N.P.
Laboratories (supra) and S.M. Dyechem Ltd. v. Cadbury (India) Ltd. (supra) and
stated as follows:
"On merits of the case, this Court, took note of some English decisions and
observed in Dyechem's case (supra) at page 594 (of SCC): (at p. 2183 of AIR
SCW; 2123 of AIR and 1350 of CLC (para 31) that "where common marks are
included in the rival trade marks, more regard is to be paid to the parts not
common and the proper course is to look at the marks as a whole, but at the
same time not to disregard the parts which are common". This Court sought to
apply the principle that dissimilarity in essential features in devices and
composite marks are more important than some similarity. This Court, after
considering various decisions referred to hereinabove, observed in Dye-chem's
case (supra) at page 596 (of SCC): (at pp. 2184-85 of AIR SCW, 2124 of AIR and
1351 of CLC) (para 34) as follows :
"Broadly, under our law as seen above, it can he said that stress is laid down
on common features rather than on differences in essential features', except
for a passing reference to a limited extent in one case."
Notwithstanding the aforesaid observations this Court in Dyechem's case (para
35) (supra) proceeded to observe as follows :
"It appears to us that (his Court did not have occasion to decide, as far as
we are able to see, an issue where there were also differences in essential
features nor to consider the extent to which the differences are to be given
importance over similarities. Such a question has arisen in the present case
and that is why we have referred to the principles of English Law relating to
differences in essential features which principles, in our opinion, are
equally applicable in our country."
18\. We are unable to agree with the aforesaid observation in Dyechem's case
(supra). As far as this Court is concerned, the decisions in the last four
decades have clearly laid down that what has to he seen in the case of a
passing off action is the similarity between the competing marks and to
determine whether there is likelihood of deception or causing confusion. This
is evident from the decisions of this Court in the cases of National Sewing
Thread Co. Ltd.'s case (supra), Com Products Refining Company's case (supra),
Amritdhara Pharmacy's case (supra), Durga Dutt Sharma's case (supra),
Hoffmann-La Roche and Co. Ltd.'s case (supra). Having come to the conclusion,
in our opinion incorrectly, that the difference in essential features is
relevant, this Court in Dyechem's case (supra) sought to examine the
difference in the two marks "Piknic" and "Picnic". It applied three tests,
they being (1) is there any special aspect of the common feature which has
been copied? (2) mode in which the parts are put together differently i.e.
whether dissimilarity of the part or parts is enough to make the whole thing
dissimilar and (3) whether when there are common elements, should one not pay
more regard to the parts which are not common, while at the same lime not
disregarding the common parts ? In examining the marks, keeping the aforesaid
three tests in mind, it came to the conclusion, seeing the manner in which the
two words were written and the peculiarity of the script and concluded that
"the above three dissimilarities have to he given more importance than the
phonetic similarity or the similarity in the use of the word PICNIC for
PIKNIK".'
19\. With respect, we are unable to agree that the principle of phonetic
similarity has to be jettisoned when the manner in which the competing words
are written is different and the conclusion so arrived at is clearly contrary
to the binding precedent of this Court in Amritdhara's case (supra) where the
phonetic similarity was applied by judging the two competing marks. Similarly,
in Durga Dutt Sharma's case (supra), it was observed that "in an action for
infringement, the Plaintiff must, no doubt, make out that the use of the
Defendant's mark is likely to deceive, but where the similarity between the
Plaintiff's and the Defendant's mark is so close either visually, phonetically
or otherwise and the Court reaches the conclusion that there is an imitation,
no further evidence is required to establish that the Plaintiffs rights are
violated."
20\. Lastly, in Dyechem's case it was observed in Para 54 (of SCC) : (Para 53
of AIR SCW, AIR CLC) as under:
"As to scope of a buyer being deceived, in a passing-off action, the following
principles have to be borne in mind. Lord Romer. L.J. has said in Payton and
Co. v. Shelling, Lampard and Co., (1900) 17 RPC 48 that it is a misconception
to refer to the confusion that can be created upon an ignorant customer that
the Courts ought to think of in these cases is the customer who knows the
distinguishing characteristics of the Plaintiff's goods, those characteristics
which distinguish his goods from other goods in the market so far as relates
to general characteristics. If he does not know that, he is not a customer
whose views can properly be regarded by the Court. (See the cases quoted in
N.S. Thread and Co. v. Chadwick and Bros., AIR 1948 Madras 481 which was a
passing-off action.) In Schweppes Case (1905) 22 RPC 601 (HL) Lord Halsbury
said, if a person is so careless that he does not look and does not treat the
label fairly but takes the bottle without sufficient consideration and without
reading what is written very plainly indeed up the face of the label, you
cannot say he is deceived."
These observations appear to us to be contrary to the decision of this Court
in Amritdhara's case (supra) where it was observed that the products will be
purchased by both villagers and townfolk, literate as well as illiterate and
the question has to be approached from the point of view of a man of average
intelligence and imperfect recollection. A trade may relate to goods largely
sold to illiterate or badly educated persons. The purchaser in India cannot be
equated with a purchaser of goods in England. While we agree that in trade
mark matters, it is necessary to go into the question of comparable strength,
the decision on merits in Dyechem's case, 2000 AIR SCW 2172 : AIR 2000 SC 2114
: 2000 CLC 1338) (supra) does not, in our opinion, lay down correct law and we
hold accordingly."
"31. Trade mark is essentially adopted to advertise one's product and to make
it known to the purchaser, ft attempts to portray the nature and, if possible,
the quality of the product and over a period of time the mark may become
popular. It is usually at that stage that other people are tempted to pass of
their products as that of the original owner of the mark. That is why it is
said that in a passing off action, the Plaintiff's right is "against the
conduct of the Defendant which leads to or is intended or calculated to lead
to deception. Passing off is said to be a species of unfair trade competition
or of actionable unfair trading by which one person, through deception,
attempts to obtain an economic benefit of the reputation which other has
established for himself in a particular trade or business. The action is
regarded as an action for deceit. "(See Wander Ltd. v. Antox India Pvt. Ltd.,
1990 Suppl. SCC 727."
"33. The decisions of English Courts would he relevant in a country where
literacy is high and the marks used are in the language which the purchaser
can understand. While English cases may he relevant in understanding the
essential features of trade mark law hut when we are dealing with the sale of
consumer items in India, you have to see and bear in mind the difference in
situation between England and India. Can English principles apply in their
entirety in India with no regard to Indian conditions? We think not. In a
country like India where there is no single common language, a large
percentage of population is illiterate and a small fraction of people know
English, then to apply the principles of English law regarding dissimilarity
of the marks or the customer knowing about the distinguishing characteristics
of the Plaintiff's goods seems to overlook the ground realities in India.
While examining such cases in India, what has to he kept in mind is the
purchaser of such goods in India who may have absolutely no knowledge of
English language or of the language in which the trade mark is written and to
whom different words with slight difference in spellings may sound
phonetically the same. While dealing with cases relating to passing off, one
of the important tests which has to he applied in each case is whether the
misrepresentation made by the Defendant is of such a nature as is likely to
cause an ordinary consumer to confuse one product for another due to
similarity of marks and other surrounding factors. What is likely to cause
confusion would vary from case to case."
6\. In Cadila's case (supra) the Apex Court stated that in an action for
passing off on the basis of unregistered trade mark generally for deciding the
question of deceptive similarity the following factors are to be considered:
a) The nature of the marks i.e. whether the marks are word marks or label
marks or composite marks, i.e. both words and label works.
b) The degree of resembleness between the marks, phonetically similar and
hence similar in idea.
c) The nature of the goods in respect of which they are used as trade marks.
d) The similarity in the nature, character and performance of the goods of the
rival traders.
e) The class of purchasers who are likely to buy the goods hearing the marks
they require, on their education and intelligence and a degree of care they
are likely to exercise in purchasing and/or using the goods.
f) The mode of purchasing the goods or placing orders for the goods and
g) Any other surrounding circumstances which may be relevant in the extent of
dissimilarity between the competing marks.
Weightage to be given to each of the aforesaid factors depends upon facts of
each case and the same weight age cannot be given to each factor in every
case.
It was submitted on behalf of the plaintiffs that the above judgment lays down
the principles for comparision in a passing off action and the material
factors which should weigh in comparing trade dresses would be the overall
effect the trade dress would have on an unwary customer of average
intelligence and imperfect recollection, the price of product, the mode of
purchasing the product and the class of customers, who are likely to buy the
product. It was submitted that a product like a chocolate eclair priced at Re.
1/- is sold throughout the length and breadth of India and would be purchased
by people literate or illiterate, educated or uneducated, having knowledge or
English or not, rich or poor. That, a large percentage of purchasers of
eclairs are young children who are more easily susceptible to deception.
Moreover, the product is sold through small shops including pan gallas where
every opportunity is available to pass off one for the other.
7\. On behalf of the Defendants apart from the decision of the Apex Court in
the case of Kaviraj Durga Dutt Sharma (supra), reliance was also placed upon
two decisions of the Delhi High Court (1) Kellogg Company v. Pravin Kumar
Bhadabhai, 1996 PTC (16) 187 and (2) Pfizer Products Inc. v. B.L. & Company,
2002 (25) PTC 262.
18.2 Upon perusal of the aforesaid decisions, it appears that the legal
position, enunciated by the Apex Court is that what has to be seen in the case
of a passing off action is the similarity between the competing marks and to
determine whether there is likelihood of deception or causing confusion. The
Apex Court in Cadila's case (supra) has categorically held that in S.M.
Dyechem's case (supra) the Court had incorrectly come to the conclusion that
the differences in essential features are relevant. Thus, insofar as the
principle to be applied in deciding the question of deceptive similarity are
concerned, what has to be seen is the similarity in the competing marks as to
whether there is likelihood of deception or causing confusion.
18.3 Applying the aforesaid test to the facts of the present case, the two
wrappers/labels would have to be compared to find out the similarity in the
competing marks to arrive at a conclusion as to whether there is any
likelihood of deception or confusion.
18.4 As regards the principles for comparision of trade dress/getup where
passing off is claimed on the basis of similarity of trade dress, the
Plaintiffs have relied upon various decisions laying down the manner in which
Courts have compared labels, wrappers, trade dress or get-up of the product in
a passing off action:
(1) The decision of the Delhi High Court in the case of Colgate Palmolive
Company v. Anchor Health and Beauty Care Pvt. Ltd was relied upon wherein it
has been held as follows:
"52, It is the overall impression that customer gets as to the source and
origin of the goods from visual impression of colour combination, shape of the
container, packing etc. If illiterate, unwary and gullible customer gets
confused as to the source and origin of the goods which he has been using for
longer period by way of getting the goods in a container having particular
shape, colour combination and getup, it amounts to passing off. In other
words, if the first glance of the article without going into the minute
details of the colour combination, getup or lay out appearing on the container
and packing gives the impression as to deceptive or near similarities in
respect of these ingredients, it is a case of confusion and amounts to passing
off one's own goods as those of the other with a view to encash upon the
goodwill and reputation of the latter.
54\. May be, no party can have monopoly over a particular colour but if there
is substantial reproduction of the colour combination in the similar order
either on the container or packing which over a period has been imprinted upon
the minds of customers it certainly is liable to cause not only confusion but
also dilution of distinctiveness of colour combination. Colour combination,
get up, lay out and size of container is sort of trade dress which involves
overall, image of the product's features. There is a wide protection against
imitation or deceptive similarities of trade dress as trade dress is the soul
for identification of the goods as to its source and origin and as such is
liable to cause confusion in the minds of unwary customers particularly those
who have been using the product over a long period.
55\. The difference in a style of the works appearing on the container or
packing identifying its manufacturers by way of style, colour combination or
textures or graphics is certainty significant or relevant for determining the
overall imitation of the container but if a product having distinctive colour
combination, style, shape and texture has been in the market for decades as in
this case it is in the market since 1951 it leads to ineluctable inference of
having acquired secondary meaning on account of its reputation and good will
earner at huge cost."
56\. It is not the diligent or literate or conscious customer who always
remain conscious to the quality of goods he has been purchasing which
determines an offence of passing off. It is the unwary, illiterate and
gullible persons who determine by . arriving at a conclusion whether the
infringed goods are confusingly similar in colour combination, get up, lay out
printed over the container or packing. If it is not so, then the offence of
passing off will cease to have its existence once the equity party choses a
different trade name."
"57. Words "Colgate" and "Anchor" are distinct and have not an iota of
similarities either in look or in sound. That is why the ingredients of trade
dress, get up, colour combination, lay out of the container or packing acquire
significance and relevance for determining the offence of passing off. This
criteria flows from the concept of action of passing off developed over the
year that it is the similarities and not the dissimilarities which go to
determine whether the action for passing off is required or not. That is why
in trade mark cases even the deceptive similarities are considered sufficient
for infringement of trade mark. If similarities of trade dress are substantial
from the look of the two goods, it comes within the misuse of passing off. "
"59. Conscious imitation or substantial imitation of colour or get up or lay
out of container again bear the design of the defendant in causing confusion
in the minds of customer. The court is not required to find out whether there
is confusion or deceptiveness. The test is whether there is likelihood of
confusion or deceptiveness in the minds of unwary customers irrespective of
dissimilarities in the trade name.
60\. In the case of passing off and for that purpose infringement of trade
mark which are already in existence, the second or for that purpose the
subsequent comer has certain obligation to avoid unfair competition and become
unjustly rich by encashing on the goodwill or reputation of the prior corner.
They have to establish and bank upon on their own trade dress or distinctive
features so as to establish their own merit and reputation and attract the
attention of the purchasing public and if there are no substantial
dissimilarities of marks, colour combination, get up or lay out on the
container or packing or covering of the goods of the prior comer these are
likely to create confusion in the minds of customers between his goods and the
goods of the prior comer in the market as underlying and hidden intention of
the second corner is to encash upon the successful rival.
62\. Significance of trade dress and colour combination is so immense that in
some cases even single colour has been taken to be a trade mark to be
protected from passing off action. Colour combination is a trade mark within
the definition of the TMM Act as there is no exclusion in the definition. Even
a single colour has been held to be a trade mark. There may be exception also.
Exception is that where the colour cannot be protected as the blue colour is
for the Ink and red colour is for the lipstick. Red and white has nothing to
do with the pink. Teeth as white line and Gum as Pink colour alone at least
sometimes can meet the basic requirements as a trade mark. Colour depletion
theory is unpursuasive only in cases where a blanket prohibition is being
sought.
64\. Even in changing competitive commercial complexion of Indian economy, the
second comer is also required by giving his product a name and dress
descriptive and fanciful in its own right and selling it on its own merit not
by confusing the public into mistakenly purchasing his product for his
competitor's and the second comer must create a reputation of its own and not
trade on the goodwill of another product a/ready established at considerable
cost and risks. "
67\. As regards the plea of the defendant that plaintiff are not entitled to
interim injunction because of delay, laches and acquiescence in as much as
notice was issued in July 1999 and action was brought in 2003, such a defence
is not available as it is well settled principle of law that if use is found
to be dishonest, delay or acquiescence has no relevance. "
(2) In Tavener Rutledge Ld. v. Specters Ld, 1959 RPC 83, the High Court of
Justice- Chancery Division observed as follows:
"It seems to me that one has to lake into consideration people who have what
is called imperfect recollection, as was pointed out in the case of Saville
Perfumery Ld. v. June Perfect Ld. (1941) 58 RPC 147 at 174-5, and one has to
allow for cases where the person who has not got the two tins side by side
perhaps does not remember the Plaintiffs name accurately, or does not know
that there are two different traders in the same line of business, or many
others for that matter, and. lakes a casual glance at the tin and imagines
that it is the kind of fruit drops that he wants, not entirely casually, but
looking at it in the ordinary way that such a customer would go into a shop
and see a pile of tins or something of that son. Afterwards of course he may
discover that (hey were not the ones he expected to get and he may raise
objection, but it seems to me that it is a case of confusion if customers are
induced to buy by a recollection of the general get-up of the Plaintiffs ' tin
so that they purchase a tin of the Defendants' sweets by mistake, and I am
bound to say that I have come to the conclusion that such confusion is not
only possible but is likely."
(3) Reliance was also placed by the Plaintiffs upon the decision in the case
of United Biscuits (U.K.) Limited v. ASDA Stores Limited (1997) RPC 513. The
principles which emerge from the said decision, as are relevant for the
purpose of the present case are that the long use of a particular distinctive
get-up placed a special obligation on a competitor to avoid confusion; where
the goods in question were familiar and inexpensive, the judge should first
form his own provisional view as to the similarity of the goods in question;
and that in aiming to avoid what the law would characterise as deception, the
Defendant has nevertheless taken a conscious decision to live dangerously.
This was not something which the court was bound to disregard.
(4) The decision in the case of Lever V. Goodwin (1887) 4 RPC 492, was cited
for the proposition that "No trader can adopt a trade mark so resembling that
of a rival as that ordinary purchasers purchasing with ordinary caution are
likely to be misled. It would be a mistake, however, to suppose that the
resemblance must be such as would deceive persons who should see the two marks
placed side by side. The rule so restricted would be of no practical use. "
(5) In Colgate-Palmolive Ltd. v. K.F. Patron (1978) RPC 636 it was held as
follows:
"The question for determination in an action for passing off by the use of a
mark is whether the resemblance is likely to deceive. The authorities have
established firmly that the persons to be considered in deciding this are all
those who are likely to become purchasers provided they use ordinary care and
intelligence. Products are frequently remembered by general impression than by
a particular feature and it is sufficient if deception is likely to arise. It
must not he assumed that: a very careful or detailed examination, will be
made, for on a "side by side" comparision such as was made by the trial judge
two products may differ materially whereas to the incautious purchaser or to
the average casual purchaser the general set up and over-all colour scheme
could cause confusion in his mind and lead him to believe that the two
products are of the same manufacturer.
(6) This Court in the case of Rupa and Co. Ltd. v. Dawn Mills CO. Ltd. has
very aptly stated as to how the question of likely to deceive and likely to
confuse can be determined:
"In substance it can be stated that in determining the question of likely to
deceive or likely to cause confusion, it is necessary to assess the
psychological reaction that mental association which the mark will generate in
the mind of the average buyer when he buys the goods under normal
circumstances and conditions in the trade. The area of conflict between the
user of two marks in the case about existing trade mark by user of another
marking is to be resolved by considering the fair and normal use of both the
marks. It is all the more so where confusion or deception has to be assessed
when the marks' are used in relation to the same goods or same description of
the goods. Expression likely to deceive or likely to cause confusion indicate
that what in required to be considered and established while considering
whether a particular mark infringes another mark is only a probability of
deception, or confusion and not actual deception or confusion in the minds of
the buyers. Nor does the definition of deceptively similar or likely to cause
confusion restricted in its scope to the particular type of confusion. If a
person may buy goods seeing one mark thinking that it is the brand which is in
his mind which in fact it is not the case, it may amount to confusion or
deception. So also where a person looking at a mark may buy goods thinking
that it is coming from the same source as some other goods bearing a similar
mark which he is familiar with. The word 'likely' excludes the necessity of
proving the injury to one or illicit benefit to others, before establishing
the case of deceptive similarity. The test is not whether one man will be
injured and the other will gain illicit benefit, but whether there will be a
confusion in the mind of public which will lead to confusion in the goods."
(7) With a view to point out that the Defendants trade dress is not
deceptively similar to that of the Plaintiffs, strong reliance was placed on
the decision of the Delhi High Court in Kellogg Company v. Pravin Kumar
Bhadabhai, (supra) wherein while dealing with the said issue the Court
observed as follows:
"21. That brings its finally to the question of the failing memory of the
customer. The argument is that customer's have short memory and that if the
trade dress is similar, the customers are likely to get confused.
22\. It has now been held that there are limitations to the theory of
imperfect memory. Halsbury's Laws of England (4th Ed) (Vol. 48, para 139) says
that this principle of imperfect recollection must not be pressed too far. It
says:
"The Tribunal must bear in mind that the marks will not normally be seen side
by side and guard against the danger that a person seeing the new mark may
think that it is the same as one he has seen before, or even that it is a new
or associated mark of the proprietor of the formal mark. However, the doctrine
of imperfect recollection must not been pressed too far (Chappie Ltd.) v.
Spratt's Patent Ltd. (1954) 71 RPC 455 at 457). Marks are often remembered by
general impressions of by same essential feature (De cordova Vick Chemical Co.
(1951) 68 RPC 106 (PC) at 289 (on appeal 71 RPC 348 (CA)."
23\. In fact in Scheweppes Ltd. Case above referred to, Lord Halsbury said
"and if a person is so careless that he does not look, and does not, ...
treats the lable fairly but takes the bottle without sufficient consideration
and without reading what is written very plainly indeed up - the face of the
label on which the trade has placed his own name, then you certainly cannot
say he is deceived - in fact, he does not: care which it is. That would be the
true interference which I think a person would draw from conduct so
described."
24\. Having dealt with the contention of imperfect memory of the customer, we
shall now deal with the class of purchasers, which is also an important
factor. Who are the persons who go to purchase "Kelloggs' Corn flakes? Prima
facie, in our opinion, these people belong to a middle-class or upper middle
class and above who are fairly educated in English and are able to distinguish
"Kelloggs' and what is not "Kellogs". In American Jurisprudence (2d) (trade
Marks) (Supp) para 19 (page 178). it is said that it is necessary to note the
fact:
"That, customers for fastners are sophisticated and discerning, that
defendants acted with good faith."
25\. The case was one were customers were purchasers of fasteners in the
automobile industry. (Standard Pressed Steel Co. v. Midwest Chrome Process Co.
LDC III (US PU 106"). Again Kerly, Law of trademarks (12th ed. 1980) (para
1706) says that:
"If the goods are expensive and not of a kind usually selected without
deliberation, and the customers generally educated persons, these are all
matters to be considered (Pianolist (1906) 23 RPC 774 : Claudins Ash v. Invica
(1911) 28 RPC 597; 29 RPC 465 (CA) (HL) (dentists), Rysta (1943) 60 RPC 87).
26\. In Pianolist's case (1906) (23) RPC - 774, an application was made for
the registration as a trade mark of the word "Neola" for "piano player, being
a musical instrument included in class 9". Coming to know of this application,
the registered proprietors of the trade mark "Pianola" who were registered for
all goods in class 9, opposed the above application for registration. The
Registrar overruled the objection and ordered registration. On appeal, Justice
Parker said that having regard to the kind of customers " for such goods and
the distinction in the names, there was not likely to be any confusion and
dismissed the appeal.
27\. If that was so between "Neole" and "Pianole", the case of Ketlogg's can
AIMS, in our prima facie view, presents no difficulty for distinct
identification. Parker J. in fact observed in the above case:
"Of course, one knows that the persons who buy these articles are generally
persons of some education. ... my opinion is, having regard to the nature of
the customer, the article in question and the price at which it is likely to
be sold, and all the surrounding circumstances, no man of ordinary
intelligence is likely to be deceived.... "
28\. We are, on the facts of the case before us, prima facie of the same
opinion in regard to Kelloggs and AIMS. "
(8) The Defendants have also relied upon the decision of the Delhi High Court
in the case of Pfizer Products Inc. v. B.L. & Company (supra), however, the
said decision was cited more in support of the contention that the term
eclairs is a generic word and not distinctive of the Plaintiffs' product. In
this regard, on behalf of the Plaintiff it has been stated that at this stage
the Plaintiff is not necessarily claiming any monopoly in the term 'Eclair'
per se (assuming without admitting that it is descriptive) and is claiming
that the respondent Defendant by adopting a trade dress which has an overall
similarity to the trade dress of the Plaintiff is seeking to pass off the
Defendant's chocolate eclairs as those of the Plaintiff. Hence, at this stage,
it is not necessary to refer to and discuss the said decision as well as the
other decisions relied upon by the Defendants to contend that the Plaintiff
cannot claim proprietorship on descriptive or generic term 'Eclair'.
18.5 From the aforesaid decisions the following principles can be culled out
in relation to how the similarities in competing marks should be compared:
• The question has to be approached from the point of view of a man of average
intelligence and imperfect recollection;
• It is not the deligent or literate or conscious customer who always remain
conscious to the quality of goods which he has been purchasing which determine
the offence of passing off. It is the unwary, illiterate and gullible persons
who determine by arriving at a conclusion whether the infringed goods are
confusingly similar in colour combination, get up, layout printed over the
container or packing;
• Products are frequently remembered by general impression than by a
particular feature and it is sufficient if deception is likely to arise.
• If a person may buy goods seeing one mark thinking that it is the brand
which is in his mind, which in fact it is not the case, it may amount to
confusion or deception;
• The resemblance need not be such as would deceive persons who should see the
two marks placed side by side.
• The necessity of proving the injury to one or illicit benefit to others,
before establishing the case of deceptive similarity is excluded. The test is
not whether one man will be injured and the other will gain illicit benefit,
but whether there will be a confusion in the mind of public which will lead to
confusion in the goods.
18.6 The Apex Court in Cadila's case (supra) has stated the factors that have
to be generally considered in an action for passing off on the basis of
unregistered trade mark, for deciding the question of deceptive similarity
which have already been reproduced hereinabove. What is required to be seen is
how the Trial Court has applied the said principles.
18.7 The Trial Court held that the words "CHOCO" and "ÉCLAIRS" both are
generic names and describe products and it is so popular in the chocolate
confectionary items that no one can be misled by the said name. Insofar as the
use of generic terms is concerned, the Plaintiff is at this stage not claiming
any monopoly over the term eclairs. Hence, that issue need not be gone into.
18.8 The Trial Court has further held that the words "Cadbury" and "Candyman"
do not have any phonetic or visual similarity except the letter "C". That, the
word "Cadbury" is written in cursory writing and in stylish manner by the
Plaintiff, while the Defendants are using the word "Candyman" in different and
more bigger font and, therefore, there is hardly any similarity, which may
lead to confusion in the mind of purchasers. The Trial Court after considering
various decisions was of the view that in the case of a passing off action
what has to be seen is the similarity between the competing marks to determine
whether there is any likelihood of deception or causing confusion. Referring
to the principles laid down by the Apex Court in Cadila's case (supra), the
Trial Court held that "Even if this test is applied, it will be difficult to
say that there can he any confusion or deceptive similarity in the wrapper
used by the Defendants and therefore, in my view, the Plaintiffs have failed
to establish their case of passing off." The Trial Court has observed that,
"In the present case, the Plaintiffs have come out with the case that they are
using their wrappers in golden and purple colours, while the Defendants are
using their wrappers in golden colour. The purple colour is used on the side
of the wrapper, which is twisted and, therefore, the Defendants' packing would
cause confusion in the mind of purchasers or there is likelihood of deception
or confusion in the mind of purchasers and because of the confusion, the
Defendants' goods may pass off as the goods of the Plaintiffs. During the
course of arguments, I have asked the learned Advocate for the Plaintiffs that
the Plaintiff's company have applied for the registration of the purple colour
whether they have applied for golden colour anywhere worldwide, but he has
fairly admitted that they have not applied for the golden colour. In my view,
therefore, that the whole stress of the Plaintiff-company is on the purple
colour and not on the golden colour and I do not find any such combination of
purple colour in the label of the Defendants ' company which can cause
deception or confusion in the minds of purchasers."
18.9 The Trial Court referred to the decision of Colgate Palmolive (supra) and
observed that "The said case also said that no party have monopoly over
particular colour but if there is substantial reproduction of the colour
combination or packing which over a period has been imprinted upon the minds
of customers it certainly is liable to cause not only confusion but also
illusion.... If said test is applied to the present case, it is difficult to
believe that the wrapper of the Defendants would cause any confusion." The
Trial Court has further observed as follows:
"The Apex Court in case of Kaviraj Pandit Durga Dutt Sharma (supra) has held
that in the case of passing off the Defendant may escape liability if he can
say that the added matter is sufficient to distinguish his goods from that of
the Plaintiffs. The Plaintiff is using both purple and golden colour. Purple
colour appears on both sides of wrapper. It occupies about 40% of their label.
Though wrapper is twisted for packing, the purple colour is visible. The
Defendants' wrapper is of golden colour. It has no such colour combination.
Only fonts are in purple. Thus, the absence of purple colour in the label of
the Defendants is sufficient to distinguish its goods from the goods of the
Plaintiff. In my view, to distinguish the colour, one is not required to be
more than average intelligent. In the present case independent survey is
carried out by M/s IMRB Ltd., independent professional company to find out
that there is any confusion between two products and it has found that there
is no such confusion which could be found in the case of deceptive similarity.
I do not find any reasonable explanation from the Plaintiff. Thus, there is a
prim a facie independent evidence against the Plaintiff. Even a child can
easily distinguish this feature and, therefore, I am of the strong view that
there is no deceptive similarity between the trade dress of the Plaintiffs and
that of Defendants, which may cause or likely to cause any deception or
confusion in the minds of buyers."
18.10 As can be seen from the findings of the Trial Court, it is apparent that
despite having formed the opinion that "at the time of deciding the
infringement or passing off, the only thing that is required to be seen is
that whether there is such similarity that may cause likelihood of deception
or confusion between the two products, whether the two marks or trade dress as
are similar that it may deceive or cause confusion to the buyer" while
actually comparing the two labels the Trial Court has proceeded to compare the
dissimilarities and not the similarities.
18.11 While going through the impugned judgment this Court finds that the
Trial Court has referred to various decisions relied upon on behalf of the
Plaintiff and has devoted as many as 23 paragraphs running into about 1 5
pages in reproducing extracts from the decision in the case of Colgate
Palmolive Company (supra), however, there is no reference to any factual
submissions made on behalf of the Plaintiffs, on the merits of the case. It is
the specific case of the Plaintiffs as stated in the plaint as well as borne
out from the submissions made before this Court that the visual similarity
between the marks Cadbury and Candyman where the first two letters in both the
marks are the same and the letter 'D' appearing third in Cadbury is appearing
fourth in Candyman and the words when written in the same purple colour in
small letters on a small pack which is approximately one inch in length and
half an inch in breadth with a small area of display panel would be
deceptively similar when used on the same type of product i.e. sugar candy
such as eclairs in the market place along with the word eclairs. That, the
complete text Candyman Choco Eclair and Cadbury Diary Milk Eclairs written in
purple colour on a golden coloured background on the rival labels mentioned in
three separate rows one below the other on the small labels of each individual
wrapper there would be confusing similarities between the two labels which
would easily deceive consumers, especially young children who are predominant
purchasers of these products.
18.12 From the findings of the Trial Court it nowhere appears that the
similarities of the two labels have been gone into to decide the question as
to whether there was any likelihood of confusion or deception. The Trial Court
has not compared the similar features of the two labels, namely that both the
labels are predominantly gold in colour when the eclair is wrapped in the
same, and that the lettering on both the labels is in purple. That, when the
eclair is wrapped in the label, all that can be seen in the centre is the
golden colour with purple words, in both cases in cursive writing, with a
slight difference in the fonts. It is true that the flanks/wings of the
Plaintiffs' label are purple in colour, but part of it goes in the twist and
the remaining though visible, the difference would be discernible only when
the labels are kept side by side. If one goes by general impressions with
which products are frequently remembered, confusion and deception are likely
to arise.
18.13 Moreover, the Trial Court appears to have gone off the track by entering
into the question as to whether the Plaintiffs had applied for registration of
the golden colour, and corning to the conclusion that in the absence of any
application for registration of the golden colour, the whole stress of the
Plaintiff company is on the purple colour and not on the golden colour. On the
basis of the aforesaid view, the Trial Court did not find any such combination
of purple colour in the Defendants' label, which could cause deception or
confusion in the minds of the purchasers. The aforesaid finding of the Trial
Court can be said to suffer from the vice of non-application of mind as well
as a misconception of the facts of the case, as the very basis of the
Plaintiffs' action for passing off is the use of the gold and purple colour
scheme by the Defendants, in respect of its Candyman Choco Eclairs. The Trial
Court has brushed aside the very foundation of the claim of the Plaintiff on
the ground that it has not applied for registration of the golden colour, and
that therefore, its claim is based solely on the purple colour.
18.14 The Trial Court has also referred to the decision of the of Colgate
Palmolive (supra) and held that if the test laid down in the said decision is
applied to the present case, it is difficult to believe that the wrapper of
the Defendants would cause any confusion, however, no reasons are assigned for
coming to the said conclusion.
18.15 While placing reliance upon the decision of the Apex Court in case of
Kaviraj Pandit Durga Dutt Sharma (supra) the Trial Court has observed, "the
Plaintiff is using both purple and golden colour. Purple colour appears on
both sides of wrapper. It occupies about 40% of their label. Though wrapper is
listed for packing, the purple colour is visible. The Defendants' wrapper is
of golden colour. It has no such colour combination. Only fonts are in purple.
Thus, the absence of purple colour in the label of the Defendants is
sufficient to distinguish Us goods from the goods of the Plaintiff." Thus, it
is evident that the Trial Court has only compared the dissimilarities, without
so much are referring to the similarities in the two labels.
18.16 The Trial Court was also of the view that one does not need to be of
more than average intelligence to distinguish the colour. Undue reliance
appears to have been placed by the Trial Court upon survey carried out by M/s
IMRB Ltd. after the filing of the suit, at the instance of the Defendants, to
find out as to whether there is any confusion between two products. As per the
said survey report, which covered 74 children and 51 parents, it was found
that there was a low incidence of such error. The Trial Court found that as
per the said report it has been found that there is no such confusion, which
can be found in case of deceptive similarity. It was further observed "I do
not find any reasonable explanation from the Plaintiff." And it was found that
"Thus, there is a prima facie independent evidence against the Plaintiff." As
to whether the said survey carried out at the instance of the Defendant can be
said to be independent evidence, would be a question that would be required to
be gone into at the stage of trial. Moreover, the Trial Court has gone further
to add that no reasonable explanation is found from the Plaintiff. It is not
in dispute that the survey report has been placed on the record with the
written statement. In reply thereto, the Plaintiffs have filed a rejoinder
affidavit wherein they have denied that reliance can be placed on the market
research survey conducted at the behest of the Defendant No. 1. It is further
stated that it is clear that the method was contrary to the established and
accepted principles laid down by courts in the matter of market surveys. That,
the market survey was in a simulated environment and not the actual market
place and in any case the report is susceptible to manipulation by Defendant
No. 1 and that the method adopted was not correct and cannot be relied upon.
Despite the aforesaid facts, the Trial Court has found that there is no
reasonable explanation from the plaintiff and has at the stage of temporary
injunction, placed the said evidence on the pedestal of prima facie evidence
against the Plaintiffs. Based upon the said report, the Trial Court has come
to the conclusion that even a child can easily distinguish this feature and,
therefore, formed the strong view that there is no deceptive similarity
between the trade dress of the Plaintiffs and that of Defendants, which may
cause or likely to cause any deception or confusion in the minds of buyers.
18.17 Had the Trial Court arrived at the aforesaid findings after going into
the similarities of the two labels to decide the question as to whether there
was any likelihood of confusion or deception, and on the basis of relevant
material, no interference would be warranted at the hands of this Court.
However, as stated earlier, the Trial Court has instead of comparing
similarities, based its findings on the dissimilarities of the two competing
labels. Moreover, the said findings are also vitiated by misconception of the
very basis of the plaintiffs action of passing off, in that the Trial Court
has come to the conclusion that the entire case is based upon the use of the
purple colour, completely shutting its eyes to the plaintiffs' case based upon
the use of the gold and purple colour scheme being used by the Defendants to
pass off their goods as that of the Plaintiffs. Moreover, the finding that
even a child could distinguish the labels appears to be solely based upon the
survey report submitted by the defendant, upon which the Trial Court has
formed a strong view that there is no deceptive similarity in the labels.
Hence, it is difficult to comprehend as to how far the mind of the Trial Court
was vitiated by the aforesaid circumstances. In the aforesaid circumstances,
this Court is left with no alternative but to hold that the finding of the
Trial Court that there is no deceptive similarity in the labels is a perverse
finding of fact.
18.18 Applying the principles laid down by the Apex Court in the case of
Cadila Health Care (supra) to the facts of the present case it can be stated
as follows:
1\. As regards factor (a) the nature of the marks are both words and label
marks, however, at this stage the plaintiff is not claiming monopoly of the
words which are contended to be generic, hence, the nature of the marks would
be restricted to label marks. The label marks in respect of which passing off
is alleged is the gold and purple colour scheme.
2\. As regards factor (b) there is a considerable degree of resemblance
between the two competing marks, in that both the labels are basically golden
in colour. In the case of the plaintiffs' label the background is golden in
colour, wherein the words Cadbury, Diary Milk and Eclairs are printed in three
separate rows one below the other and the flanks have purple bands/stripes.
The word Cadbury is written in its trademark form in gold in a purple
background, whereas the words DAIRY MILK are written in plain capital letters
and the word Eclairs is written prominently in a cursive font with a cursive
line below the word Eclairs in purple colour. Whereas in the case of the
defendant's label also the background is golden in colour, wherein the words
Candyman, Choco and Eclairs are printed in purple colour in three separate
rows one below the other. The word Candyman is written stylishly in capital
letters, whereas the word CHOCO is written in plain capital letters, and the
word Eclairs is written prominently in a cursive font. There is a cursive line
below the word Candyman. There is also a white waveline on both the sides and
a white square with a green round on one side in the flanks, which are hardly
visible in the twist of the wrapper. In case of both the labels the name and
address of the manufacturer and some other details are printed on the flanks
which are hardly visible and difficult to read with the naked eye. When placed
side by side and compared minutely, it is apparent that the two labels are
different, however, when looking to the similarities in the two labels, it is
apparent that both the marks have the same colour scheme; the get up and lay
out are also similar. Both the marks are visually and structurally similar.
When one considers from the point of view of a man of average intelligence and
imperfect recollection; as well as the fact that products are frequently
remembered by general impression than by a particular feature, it can be
safely concluded that there is every likelihood that confusion or deception is
likely to arise.
3\. Factors (c) (d) and (e) can be considered together as the same are closed
connected. The goods in respect of which the labels are used are confectionary
items, being chocolate eclairs worth Re. 1/- each, which are consumed mostly
by children, belonging to all the strata of society, whether rich or poor and
whether literate or illiterate. Hence, the purchasers of these goods belong to
different classes, but mostly comprising of children who cannot be expected to
exercise a very high degree of care and caution in purchasing these goods. A
child would generally go by the image he carries of a certain product, and
considering the similarities between the two products, there is all likelihood
that he would not be in position to make out the difference, if the
defendants' goods are passed off as that of the plaintiffs'. Both the products
are targeted at the same consumers/customers, who could be both villagers and
towns-folk, literate and illiterate, children and adults and both are sold
through the same trade channels. Hence, degree of care that would be exercised
by the class of purchasers who are likely to buy these goods would be the
common man wherein the principle of imperfect recollection would apply with
full force. The decision of the Delhi High Court in the case of Kellogg's
(supra) cannot be made applicable to the facts of the present case, as in the
said case the Court had categorically found that the persons who go to
purchase 'Kelloggs' Corn Flakes belong to the middle class and above who are
fairly educated in English and able to distinguish 'Kelloggs' and what is not
'Kelloggs'; which cannot be said so in the facts of the present case.
4\. As regards the mode of purchasing the goods, looking to the nature of the
goods, the eclairs are sweet candies, which are separately sold as units,
mostly across the counter. The manufacturer would sell the goods in poly
pouches or transparent plastic jars to the retailers, who would mostly sell
them per piece. The goods in question are stated to be commercially sold in
the market mostly in pan shops and small shops. The plaintiffs have filed
affidavits of their representatives stating that the products are sold through
pan galas and are also mixed and stored in common jars of Cadbury Diary Milk
Eclairs which clearly indicates that the sale of the product will be randomly
made without distinguishing one from the other. However, the Trial Court has
chosen not to consider the same, and on the other hand has strongly relied
upon the survey report submitted by the defendants. Even if the said evidence
is discarded or not considered, it is settled legal position, that in an
action of passing off what has to be shown is that the label in respect of
which passing off is alleged is likely to cause confusion and deception; that
confusion or deception does not have to be actually proved.
Considering all the aforesaid factors, it is apparent that when the entire
material is taken into consideration, it tilts the balance in favour of the
Plaintiff. Accordingly, it is held that the two marks are deceptively similar
and there is every likelihood that the same may cause confusion or deception
in the minds of the consumers. Point No. 4 is decided accordingly.
19\. The next issue to be decided is as to whether the plaintiff's trade dress
is distinctive of its products or whether the same is common to trade? It is
the case of the plaintiffs that the plaintiffs are using the purple and gold
colour on all their Cadbury Diary Milk chocolate products in India and abroad
and, therefore, the said combination is exclusively associated with the
plaintiffs. In response thereto, it was contended on behalf of the defendants
that the plaintiffs have no exclusive right in respect of wrappers/packaging
for Eclairs which have the colours purple and gold in combination. It was
urged that a number of competitors have been using the purple colour or the
combination of the colour scheme of purple and golden for their eclair product
openly, continuously and extensively. It is the case of the defendants that
the registrations obtained by the plaintiffs did not give them any exclusive
right to the colour scheme, which in any case was common to trade. It is the
further case of the defendants that the golden colour, which finds
predominance in the defendants' label, signifies a premium product. It is
submitted on behalf of the Defendants that several competitors use the eclairs
variants along with their products and the use of, inter alia, purple colour
in combination with the golden colour on the wrappers is not uncommon in the
trade. In support of the said contention the Defendants have produced labels
of various companies as item No. 9 in a separate list of documents filed with
the written statement. The defendants have also submitted survey reports made
by A C Neilson ORG-MARC Pvt. Ltd. of the total market, urban and rural, of
eclairs.
19.1 The Trial Court appears to have dealt with this issue along with the
question of balance of convenience, in paragraph 118 of the impugned judgment
which reads as under:
"118. Both the parties have relied on the report of M/s IMRB" (it should be A
C Neilson ORG-MARC Pvt. Ltd.) "a reputed market research agency. The said
report contains total sales of both rival companies. Thus, it is very easy to
calculate sales and profits of defendant. And therefore, the authorities died
by the defendants would be applicable and the balance of convenience is in
favour of the defendants. It is also clear from the record that there are 29
companies using golden colour which includes "Parle Products". The plaintiff
is still contemplating to file action against many of them. If defendant is
ordered to produce their accounts, the plaintiff's interest will he
safeguarded. The judgment of , , 1996 SCC 747, 1997 FSR 294. 1998 FSR 45. 1991
FSR 294, 1991 FSR 345, 2002(25) PTC 264 and 2002 (25) PTC 707. help the
defendants on this point."
19.2 Upon perusal of the aforesaid decisions, it appears that there is some
mistake in citing the decision reported at , as the same has nothing to do
with the controversy in question, whereas the other decisions appear to have
been cited in relation to the issue of balance of convenience. Hence, the same
will be dealt with while dealing with the said issue. On the question of
common to trade, the learned Counsel appearing on behalf of the Defendants had
relied upon the decision of the Apex Court in the case of National Bell Co. &
Gupta Industrial Corporation v. Metal Goods Mfg. CO. (P) Ltd., AIR 1971 SC 898
as well as the decision of the Delhi High Court in the case of S.B.L. Ltd. v.
Himalaya Drug Co. .
19.3 The Apex Court in the case of National Bell Co., has stated as follows:
"The property in a trade mark exists so long as it continues to be distinctive
of the goods of the registered proprietor in the eyes of the public or a
section of the public. If the proprietor is not in a position to use the mark
to distinguish his goods from those of others or has abandoned it or the mark
has become so common in the market that it has ceased to connect him with his
goods, there would hardly be any justification in retaining it on the
register.
The distinetiveness of the trade mark in relation to the goods of a registered
proprietor of such a trade mark may be lost in a variety of ways, e. g., by
the goods not being capable of being distinguished as the goods of such a
proprietor or by extensive piracy so that the marks become publici juris."
19.4 In the case of S.B.L. Ltd. v. Himalaya Drug Co., (supra) the Delhi High
Court has held thus:
"20. A mark is said to be common to the trade when (i) it is in common use in
the trade, or (2) when it is open to the trade to use. Any symbol, word or get
up commonly used by traders in connection with their trade and in respect of
which no particular trader can claim an exclusive right to use may be
considered common to that particular trade, or publici juris. Further words,
expressions, or devices which are descriptive of particular goods are open to
use by all persons engaged in the trade. Such matters which are generally of a
non-distinctive character may or may not be in actual use at any particular
time. What is important that the trading public has a right to use them in
connection with their business.
21\. Whether a matter is or is not common to the trade is a question of fact.
A feature which is common to one trade may not be so to a different trade.
Similarly a mark may continue to be trade mark in some countries and publici
juris in others. A mark which was common to the trade at one time may in
course of lime become distinctive and vice versa. A word or words used by a
number of firms as part of their designation may be considered as words in
common use (See: Law of Trade Mark and Passing Off, P. Narayanan. 4th Edn.
Para 14.2)."
19.5 Applying the legal propositions cited above, it would be necessary to
examine on the basis of the facts of the case as to whether or not the trade
dress of the Plaintiff is common to trade. It is the case of the Defendants,
as held by the Trial Court that there are 29 companies using golden colour and
many of them using the gold and purple combination, hence, there is nothing
distinctive of the trade dress of the Plaintiff and that the same is common is
trade. The Defendants have relied upon the survey report as well as the labels
of products of various companies produced by them. As against that, it is the
case of the Plaintiff that it is using the purple and gold colour on all its
Cadbury Diary Milk chocolate products in India and abroad and therefore, the
combination is exclusively associated with the Plaintiffs. That from the AC
Neilson ORG-MARC Pvt. Ltd. report it is evident that the major players in
Eclairs are Cadbury, Campco, Candico, Nestle, Nutrine, Parry and Candyman.
That, the respective colour combination of each is as under:
Cadbury : Purple and gold Campco : Red and dark brown Candico : Adopted purple
and gold, but changed to (1) blue and gold, and (2) red and gold.
Nestle : Chocolate Éclair - Red and silver, Milky Bar- Blue and Cream Nutrine
: Brown, orange and gold, Parry : Orange and gold, Candyman : Purple and gold
for Re. 1 with effect from October 2004 and red and gold prior thereto. For
Re. 0.50, still red and gold.
It is the further case of the Plaintiffs that the photograph of Nutrine Éclair
showing gold and purple combination is not a genuine Nutrine Éclair as even
the packet displays no name of Nutrine.
It is the case of the plaintiffs that, the Defendants have tried to portray by
producing large number of labels that purple and gold is common to trade,
however, the same is factually incorrect as the Defendants have repeatedly
produced the same label, three to four times and some of the labels produced
are not related to chocolate eclairs, but are related to sugar confectionary,
cookies and biscuits. The Plaintiffs submitted a chart depicting an analysis
of the labels produced by the Defendants and submitted that the contention of
the Defendants that the colour purple and gold has become common to trade is
unfounded and is based on minor players who do not even feature in the ORC-
MARC report.
19.6 On behalf of the Plaintiffs reliance had been placed upon the following
observations of the Bombay High Court in the case of R.R. Oomerbhoy Pvt. Ltd.
v. Court Receiver, High Court, Bombay, 2003 (27) PTC 580, to contend that
merely because some small players in the market were using a similar colour
combination for their products, did not mean that the said colour combination
had become common to trade:
"In a country as vast as India and as geographically far flung, it may
conceivably happen that though a dominant share of the market is occupied by a
few businesses there are isolated pockets in the country where there may be
products which are sold as counterfeits with marks or colour schemes which are
deceptively similar. That, however, is not sufficient to indicate that a
particular mark has become common to the trade."
19.7 Upon perusal of the chart produced by the Plaintiff and upon
consideration of the evidence on record and the rival contentions, at this
stage the version of the Plaintiffs in support of their plea that the gold and
purple colour scheme of trade dress is not common to trade appears to be more
plausible. The Plaintiffs appear to be justified in contending that the Trial
Court has erred in holding that as many as 29 companies are using the golden
colour, when prima facie upon perusal of the documents placed on the record by
the Defendants it appears that the same labels have been repeated several
times, and moreover, none of those having purple and gold labels are major
players in the market. This Court is also in agreement with the view taken by
Bombay High Court in the decision cited above. It prima facie appears from the
material on record that the Plaintiffs trade dress is distinctive of its
products. Point No. 5 is decided accordingly.
20\. On the issue of balance of convenience, it is the case of the Plaintiffs
that the Defendant has recently changed its trade dress from red and gold to
purple and gold and that if the Defendant is allowed to continue with purple
and gold trade dress, it would mean marketing its Eclairs solely on the strong
shoulders of the Plaintiffs' established Cadbury Diary Milk Eclairs causing
permanent loss and damage to the Plaintiffs' reputation and goodwill. It is
also the case of the Plaintiffs that law clearly provides that no one has a
right to sell his own goods as goods of another and permitting the Defendant
to do so would amount to fraud being committed by it. That, if the Defendant
is allowed to continue to market its product with the same wrapper, the
damage, which could be caused to the Plaintiff will be irreparable and
permanent since either Defendant would be able to establish niche in the
market, fraudulently, causing permanent damage to the Plaintiffs' market, or
in the alternative, if the Defendants' product is not of good quality, it
would have an adverse impact on the market of the Plaintiffs' product and its
goodwill. That, such permanent damage in either case would be irreparable and
irretrievable in terms of money. That on the other hand, if the Defendant is
restrained from using the trade dress adopted by it, it can immediately come
to the market on its own reputation and not fraudulently as is sought to be
done. Referring to the decision of the Delhi High Court in the case of Colgate
Palmolive v. Anchor (supra), it was stated that the Defendant should have kept
far enough away from the Plaintiff's trade dress to avoid all possible
confusion. Reliance was placed upon the following observations in the said
decision:
"26. While expounding the doctrine of confusion arising from the deceptive
similarities as to the trade dress that may fail the unwary customer to
distinguish between the rival goods Mr. Sibal placed strong reliance upon
Harold F. Ritchie, Inc. v. St. Sabrough - Bond's Inc. 26 USPQ 310 wherein it
was held that, while entering a field of endeavour already occupied by another
the second comer should, in the selection of a trade name or trade mark, keep
far enough away to avoid all possible confusion and the leading case on this
concept is Florence Mfg. Co. v. J.G. Dowd & Co., and Anr. 178 F.73 75, which
again was an American case. The law laid down in this respect is as under:
"It is so easy for the honest business man, who wishes to sell his goods upon
their merits, to select from the entire material universe, which is before
him, symbols, marks and covering which by no possibility can cause confusion
between his goods and those of his competitors, that the courts look with
suspicion upon one who, in dressing his goods for the market, approaches so
near to his successful rival that the public may fail to distinguish between
them."
It is the case of the Plaintiffs that the balance of convenience is clearly in
favour of granting injunction, more so when the purchasing public comprise of
literate, illiterate, village and town folk, rich and poor are likely to be
confused, if not deceived. That, there will be no inconvenience caused to the
Defendant, which is a company with a very large turnover to change its trade
dress and make its own product popular with a trade dress different from that
of the Plaintiffs.
20.1 On behalf of the Defendants it was submitted that it is a well settled
principle that in order to obtain an injunction, the Plaintiff has to show a
prima facie case; it has to demonstrate that the Plaintiff would suffer
irreparable injury; and must show that the balance of convenience is in its
favour. It was further submitted that it is not the law that the Plaintiff has
to show only a triable issue to obtain an injunction in a passing off action;
that even if the Plaintiff can show a serious question or a prima facie case,
the question of balance of convenience has to be considered as an important
requirement as held by the Supreme Court in the case of Colgate Palmolive
(India) Ltd. V. Hindustan Lever Ltd. It was submitted that in this case the
Defendants have been selling their products since August 2003. The Defendants
have made considerable investments. In case the injunction is granted in
favour of the Plaintiffs, the Defendants would suffer irreparably due to loss
of market share and investments made by them over the last two years. That,
they will continue to lose their market share on a day to day basis as they
have been since 1.4.2005 and that they will suffer irreparable loss and
prejudice since their business has come to a halt. That, on the other hand, if
the Plaintiffs finally succeed in the suit they can be compensated by awarding
damages. That, the interest of the Plaintiffs can be adequately protected by
the Defendants maintaining the accounts. That, the Trial Court had rightly
held that the balance of convenience was in favour of the Defendants, and thus
the injunction ought to be refused. That, by directing the Defendants to
submit accounts every six months, the Trial Court has adequately protected the
interest of the Plaintiffs. Reliance was also placed upon two decisions of
English Courts in the case of the Boots Co. Ltd. v. Approved Prescription
Services, 1988 FSR 45 and Gala of London Ltd. v. Chandler Ltd., 1991 FSR 294,
for the proposition that when damages are an adequate remedy, or where serious
questions are required to be tried, injunction should not be granted.
20.2 Upon consideration of the rival submissions on the issue, this Court is
of the view that the balance of convenience tilts in favour of the Plaintiff.
The Court has found that the Plaintiffs, on the basis of pleadings and the
material on record have been able to establish use of the label having the
gold and purple colour scheme from the year 1994 and even on the basis of the
evidence produced by the Defendants, at least from December 2003, if not
earlier; whereas the Defendants have admittedly adopted the impugned label
since October 2004. Prior thereto, as stated in paragraph 24.13 of the written
statement, in August 2003, the Defendants mark Candyman Choco Éclairs, was
sold at only Re. 1 per piece, and used to come in gold and red colours. That,
the present colour scheme was adopted in respect of its Re. 1 Éclair
confectionary with effect from October 2004. In view of the fact that the
label in question has been adopted only from October 2004, the Defendants
contention that it would suffer irreparably due to loss of market share and
investments made by them over the last two years does not appear to be well
founded. Moreover, this Court has found that the Plaintiffs have been able to
establish a prima facie case on the basis of the material on record. Hence,
the balance of convenience tilts in favour of the Plaintiff. Point No. 6 is
decided accordingly.
21\. As regards the principal issue, namely as to whether the Plaintiffs are
entitled to the grant of temporary injunction, a host of decisions have been
cited by the parties to delineate the principles of law governing the grant or
refusal of interlocutory injunction in trade mark and trade name disputes.
However, since the earlier decisions have been considered in the latter
decisions, the Court does not find it necessary to refer to each of them:
21.1 In Colgate Palmolive (India) Ltd. v. Hindustan Lever Ltd., , the Apex
Court observed thus:
"Generally, however, the interlocutory remedy by way of a grant of an order of
injunction is intended to preserve and maintain in status quo the rights of
the parties and to protect the plaintiff, being the initiator, of the action
against incursion of his rights and for which there is no appropriate
compensation being quantified in terms of damages. The basic principle of the
grant of an order of injunction is to assess the right and need of the
plaintiff as against that of the defendant and it is a duty incumbent on to
the law courts to determine as to where the balance lies."
The Apex Court, after discussing the American Cyanamid case in great detail as
well as its decisions in Wander v. Antox (supra); Power Control Appliances v.
Sumeet Machines, ; Gujarat Bottling Co. Ltd. v. Coca Cola Co. (supra) noted
certain specific considerations in the matter of grant of interlocutory
injunction, the basic being non-expression of opinion as to the merits of the
matter by the Court, since the issue of grant of injunction usually, is at the
earliest possible stage so far as the time-frame is concerned. The Court
stated the following considerations for the grant of interlocutory
injunction:-
i. Extent of damages being an adequate remedy;
ii. Protect the plaintiffs interest for violation of his rights though however
having regard to the injury that may be suffered by the defendants by reason
therefor;
iii. The Court while dealing with the matter ought not to ignore the factum of
strength of one party's ease being stronger than the others;
iv. No fixed rules or notions ought to be had in the matter of grant of
injunction but on the facts and circumstances of each case - the relief being
kept flexible:
v. The issue is to be looked from the point of view as to whether on refusal
of the injunction the plaintiff would suffer irreparable loss and injury
keeping in view the strength of the parties' case;
vi. Balance of convenience or inconvenience ought to be considered as an
important requirement even if there is a serious question or prima facie case
in support of the grant;
vii. Whether the grant or refusal of injunction will adversely affect the
interest of general public which can or cannot be compensated otherwise."
21.2 In S.M. Dyechem v. Cadbury, the Supreme Court observed as follows:
"19. This point deals with the principles applicable for grant of temporary
injunction in trade mark cases. Before American Cyanamid Co. v. Ethicon Ltd.,
(1975) 1 All ER 504 (HL) it was customary for the Courts to go into prima
facie case in trademark cases for grant or refusal of temporary injunction.
But in American Cyanamid, it was observed that it was sufficient if a "triable
issue" was presented by the plaintiff and the merits need not be gone into.
The said judgment was referred to by this Court in Wander Ltd. v. Antox India
(P) Ltd., 1990 Supple SCC 727. The judgment in Wander Ltd. was followed in
Power Control Appliances v. Sumeet Machines (P) Ltd., . But in Gujarat
Bottling Co. Ltd. v. Coca Cola Co., this Court again adverted to the prima
facie case principle while granting temporary injunction.
20\. All these rulings have been reviewed recently in Colgate Palmolive
(India) Ltd. v. Hindustan Lever Ltd. It was pointed to this Court that there
wax considerable criticism of the principles laid down in American Cyanamid
(1975 (1) All ER 504). (See also Floyd, Interlocutory Injunctions since
Cyanamid (1983 E 1 PR 238), (Cole, Interlocutory Injunctions in U.K. Patent,
cases (1979 E 1 PR 71) (see also Edenborough M and Tritton, American Cyanamid
revisited (1998 El PR 234) and Philipps in 1997 JBL 486). This Court referred
to the recent judgment of Laddie in UK.
21\. In U.K., Laddie, J. reconsidered the principle recently and explained
American Cyanamid in his judgment in Series 5 Software v. Clark, (1996) 1 All
ER 853 (Ch D). The learned Judge observed that in American Cyanamid, Lord
Diplock did not lay down that, the relative strength of the case of each party
need not be gone into. Thereafter, this Court in Palmolive case has referred
to Laddie J's view and said that the view of Laddie, J. is correct and that
American Cyanamid cannot be understood as having laid down anything
inconsistent with the 'old practice'. We may also add that now the Courts in
England go into the question whether the plaintiff is likely or unlikely to
win in the suit i.e. into the comparative strength of the case of the rival
parties - apart from the question of balance of convenience. (See again
Laddie, J. in Barclay's Bank Inc v. R.B.S. Advanta, 1998 RPC 307 where such a
question is posed and where Series 5 Software was followed. Therefore, in
trade mark matters, it is now necessary to go into the question of 'comparable
strength' of the cases of either party, apart from balance of convenience.
Point 4 is decided accordingly."
21.3 In Cadila Health Care Ltd. (supra), the Supreme Court concurred with the
view taken in S.M. Dyechem's case (supra) and held that in trade mark matters,
it is now necessary to go into the question of "comparable strength" of the
cases of either party, apart from balance of convenience.
21.4 In Laxmikant V. Patel v. Chetanbhai Shah, the Supreme Court has held as
follows:
"A person way sell his goods or deliver his services such as in case of a
profession under a trading name or style. With the lapse of lime such business
or services associated with a person acquire a reputation or goodwill which
becomes a property which is protected by Courts. A competitor initiating sale
of goods or services in the same name or by imitating that name results in
injury to the business of one who has the property in that name. The law does
not permit any one to carry on his business in such a way as would persuade
the customers or clients in believing that the goods or services belonging to
someone else are his or are associated therewith. It does not matter whether
the latter person does so fraudulently or otherwise. The reasons are two.
Firstly, honesty and fair play are, and ought to be, the basic policies in the
world of business. Secondly, when a person adopts or intends to adopt a name
in connection with his business or services which already belongs to someone
else it results in confusion and has propensity of diverting the customers and
clients of someone else to himself and thereby resulting in injury.
In an action for passing off it is usual, rather essential, to seek an
injunction temporary or ad-interim. The principles for the grant of such
injunction are the same as in the case of any other action against injury
complained of. The plaintiff must prove a prima facie case, availability of
balance of convenience in his favour and his suffering an irreparable injury
in the absence of grant of injunction. According to Kerly (Ibid, para 16.16)
passing off cases are often cases of deliberate and intentional
misrepresentation, but it is well-settled that fraud is not a necessary
element of the right of action, and the absence of an intention to deceive is
not a defence though proof of fraudulent intention may materially assist a
plaintiff in establishing probability of deception. Christopher Wadlow in Law
of Passing Off (1995 Edition, at p. 3.06) stales that the plaintiff does not
have to prove actual damage in order to succeed in an action for passing off.
Likelihood of damage is sufficient. The same learned author states that the
defendant's stale of mind is wholly irrelevant to the existence of the cause
of action for passing off (ibid, paras 4.20 and 7.15). As to how the
injunction granted by the Court would shape depends on the facts and
circumstances of each case. Where a defendant has imitated or adopted that
plaintiffs distinctive trade mark or business name, the order may be an
absolute injunction that he would not use or carry on business under that
name. (Kerly, ibid, para 16.97).
We are conscious of the law that this Court would not ordinarily interfere
with the exercise of discretion in the matter of grant of temporary injunction
by the High Court and the trial Court and substitute its own discretion
therefor except where the discretion has been shown to have been exercised
arbitrarily or capriciously or perversely or where the order of the Court
under scrutiny ignores the settled principles of law regulating grant or
refusal of interlocutory injunction. An appeal against exercise of discretion
is said to be an appeal on principle. Appellate Court will not reassess the
material and seek to reach a conclusion different from the one reached by the
Court below solely on the ground that if it had considered the matter at the
trial stage it would have come to a contrary conclusion. If the discretion has
been exercised by the trial Court reasonably and in a judicial manner the fact
that the appellate Court would have taken a different view may not justify
interference with the trial Court's exercise of discretion [(See Wander Ltd.
v. Antox India P. Ltd. 1990 (Supp) SCC 727 and N.R. Dongre v. Whirpool
Corporation, )]. However, the present one is a case falling within the well
accepted exceptions. Neither the trial Court nor the High Court have kept in
view and applied their mind to the relevant set/led principles of law
governing the grant or refusal of interlocutory injunction in trade mark and
trade name disputes. A refusal to grant an injunction in spite of the
availability of facts, which are prima facie established by overwhelming
evidence and material available on record justifying the grant thereof,
occasion a failure of justice and such injury to the plaintiff as would not be
capable of being undone at a latter stage. The discretion exercised by the
trial Court and the High Court against the plaintiff, is neither reasonable
nor judicious. The grant of interlocutory injunction to the plaintiff could
not have been refused, therefore, it becomes obligatory on the part of this
Court to interfere."
22\. Keeping in mind the aforesaid principles the Court is required to
consider the question of grant of interim injunction.
22.1 In the present case, apart from the contentions as regards balance of
convenience and irreparable injury stated hereinabove, the Defendants have
also raised a contention as regards delay in the institution of the suit,
pointing out that at the time when the suit was filed the Defendants had
already commenced marketing of their product, hence, the consideration for
grant of injunction would be somewhat different. It was submitted that if the
Defendants had already commenced enterprise the same is a valid consideration
for refusing injunction. In support of its contentions reliance was placed
upon the decision of Colgate Palmolive (India) Ltd. v. Hindustan Lever Ltd.
(supra) as well as the decision of the Delhi High Court in the case of Pfizer
Products Inc. v. B.L. & Company (supra).
22.2 On behalf of the Plaintiffs it was submitted that there is no delay and
that the suit had been filed forthwith on knowledge of change in the trade
dress of the Defendant's product. It was further submitted that delay is no
ground to refuse interim injunction in a passing off action. Reliance was
placed upon the decisions of the Apex Court in the case of Laxmikant Patel v.
Chetanbhai Shah (supra), Dhariwal Industries v. MSS Foods Ltd. (supra) as well
as the decision of this Court in Rupa & Co. v. Dawn Mills Co. Ltd. (supra).
22.3 In this regard the Delhi High Court has in the case of Hindustan Pencil
Pvt. Ltd. v. Stationary products Co., , held as follows:
"It would appear to be difficult to accept that relief of temporary injunction
could not be granted, because of delay on the part of Plaintiff even though
the Court feels, at that point of time that ultimately permanent injection
will have to be granted.... The defence of laches or inordinate delay is a
defence in equity. In equity both the parties must come to Court: with clean
hands. An equitable defence can be put by a party who has acted fairly and
honestly. A person who is guilty of violating the law or infringing or
usurping somebody else 's right cannot claim the continued misuse of the
usurped right."
22.4 The Delhi High Court has in the case of Colgate Palmolive v. Anchor
Health (supra) held that "it is well settled that delay simplicitor is not a
defence. Delay is relevant so far as damages is concerned. This cannot stand
in the way of injunction."
22.5 The Apex Court in the case of Laxmikant V. Patel v. Chetanbhai Shah
(supra) observed as follows:
"There was no delay in filing the suit by the plaintiff. The plaintiff filed
the suit with an averment that the defendants were about to commit an injury
to the plaintiff. The defendants look a plea that they had already commenced
the business with the offending trade name without specifying actually since
when they had commenced such business. This has to be seen in the background
that the defendants' business earlier was admittedly being carried on in the
name and style of Gokul Studio. The commencement of such business by the
defendants could therefore have been subsequent to the institution of the suit
by the plaintiff and before the filing of the written statement by the
defendants. In such a situation, on the plaintiff succeeding, in making out a
prima facie case, the Court shall have to concentrate on the likelihood of
injury which would be caused to the plaintiff in future and simply because the
business under the offending name had already commenced before the filing of
the written statement or even shortly before the institution of the suit would
not make any difference and certainly not disentitle the plaintiff to the
grant of ad-interim injunction."
Thus, the mere fact that there is some delay in instituting the suit or that
the Defendant has already commenced, does not disentitle the Plaintiff to the
grant of an interim injunction, if on merits he has a strong case.
22.6 In the face of all the aforesaid evidence, keeping in view the following
observations of the Apex Court in the case of Laxmikant V. Patel v. Chetanbhai
Shah (supra) "a refusal to grant an injunction in spite of the availability of
facts, which are prima facie established by overwhelming evidence and
material, available on record justifying the grant thereof, occasion a failure
of justice and such injury to the plaintiff as would not be capable of being
undone at a latter stage"; this Court is of the view that the Plaintiffs have
established a prima facie case. The balance of convenience lies in favour of
the Plaintiffs and the relative strength of the case is also in favour of the
Plaintiffs. It being a settled legal position as enunciated by the Supreme
Court in the decisions cited above that the prima facie establishment of prior
use goes a long way in enabling the Plaintiff to claim injunction in a passing
off action. Accordingly, it is held that Plaintiffs are entitled to the grant
of interim injunction. Point No. 7 is decided accordingly.
23\. In the result, it is held on the question of passing off that on an
examination of the relative strength of the pleas, it is shown that chances,
on facts, are more in favour of the Plaintiffs rather than in favour of the
Defendants and that the Plaintiffs are entitled to the grant of temporary
injunction. The findings of facts recorded hereinabove are confined to these
interlocutory proceedings only. It is made clear that any observation made by
this Court touching the facts, and any factual finding arrived at this stage
would not come in the way of the Trial Court in arriving at a final decision
at variance therewith on trial of the issues on merits after recording the
evidence.
24\. It is found that the Trial Court after agreeing in principle that while
deciding the question of deceptive similarity and likelihood of confusion, it
is the similarities in the competing marks that have to be considered, on
facts, applied the wrong principles and went into the question of
dissimilarities in the essential features and did not refer to the
similarities in the essential features. In S.M. Dyechem's case (supra) the
Supreme Court has held that if wrong principles are applied by the Trial Court
under Order 39 Rule 1 of the Code of Civil Procedure, the appellate Court
could certainly interfere in interlocutory proceedings under Order 39 Rule 1
of the CPC. Thus, the Trial Court on facts, having applied the wrong
principles while refusing temporary injunction, this Court can certainly
interfere in these interlocutory proceedings. Moreover, this Court has in
relation to the issue of deceptive similarity as well as prior use held that
the findings of fact recorded by the Trial Court are perverse, hence, the
facts and circumstances of the case warrant interference with the discretion
exercised by the Trial Court. Point No. 1 is decided accordingly.
25\. In conclusion, this Court is of the view that the Trial Court has not
applied the principles as regards grant of injunction correctly. The Trial
Court has also ignored relevant evidence on the record while recording
findings of fact on various issues. Accordingly, the exercise of discretion by
the Trial Court can be said to be arbitrary as well as perverse. The Trial
Court has failed to exercise its discretion reasonably and in a judicial
manner justifying interference at the hands of this Court.
26\. In the result the appeal succeeds. The impugned judgment and order is
quashed and set aside. The Respondents/Defendants are restrained from using in
relation to its CANDYMAN CHOCO ECLAIRS of the Re. 1/- variety the impugned
label, being Ex.12 to the plaint or any other identical or deceptively similar
label so as to pass off or enable others to pass off the Defendants' goods as
that of the Plaintiff's goods till the disposal of the suit. The appeal is
accordingly, allowed. There shall be no order as to costs.
principles while refusing temporary injunction, this Court can certainly
interfere in these interlocutory proceedings. Moreover, this Court has in
relation to the issue of deceptive similarity as well as prior use held that
the findings of fact recorded by the Trial Court are perverse, hence, the
facts and circumstances of the case warrant interference with the discretion
exercised by the Trial Court. Point No. 1 is decided accordingly.
25\. In conclusion, this Court is of the view that the Trial Court has not
applied the principles as regards grant of injunction correctly. The Trial
Court has also ignored relevant evidence on the record while recording
findings of fact on various issues. Accordingly, the exercise of discretion by
the Trial Court can be said to be arbitrary as well as perverse. The Trial
Court has failed to exercise its discretion reasonably and in a judicial
manner justifying interference at the hands of this Court.
26\. In the result the appeal succeeds. The impugned judgment and order is
quashed and set aside. The Respondents/Defendants are restrained from using in
relation to its CANDYMAN CHOCO ECLAIRS of the Re. 1/- variety the impugned
different countries of the world form a group of companies known as Cadbury
Schweppes group.
3.1 The first defendant is a Company incorporated under the Indian Companies
Act, 1913 and carries on the business, inter alia, as manufacturers and
sellers of cigarettes/tobacco, confectionery, food articles, etc., and is the
alleged owner of the trademark "Candyman/Candyman Choco Éclairs" and the
second defendant is, inter alia, a manufacturer of confectionery items and is
the manufacturer of "Candyman Choco Éclairs".
3.2 It is the case of the plaintiffs that the second plaintiff introduced a
product under the name "Cadbury Chocolate Éclairs/Éclairs" in India in the
year 1972, in respect of the which it had got a label mark prepared, which was
registered as a trade mark. The said label mark was slightly modified by the
second plaintiff and the same was also registered and the said registration is
valid and subsisting. That, in or about June 1994, the second plaintiff
modified the soft chocolate cream centre of CADBURY CHOCOLATE ÉCLAIRS with
CADBURY DAIRY MILK milk chocolate centre which is a milk chocolate of a
particular specification unique to the Cadbury Schweppes Croup, the unique
characteristic being that the chocolate is processed directly from cows' milk
along with the other ingredients. That, in keeping with the traditional trade
dress of purple and/or purple and gold always associated with CADBURY DAIRY
principles while refusing temporary injunction, this Court can certainly
interfere in these interlocutory proceedings. Moreover, this Court has in
relation to the issue of deceptive similarity as well as prior use held that
the findings of fact recorded by the Trial Court are perverse, hence, the
facts and circumstances of the case warrant interference with the discretion
exercised by the Trial Court. Point No. 1 is decided accordingly.
25\. In conclusion, this Court is of the view that the Trial Court has not
applied the principles as regards grant of injunction correctly. The Trial
Court has also ignored relevant evidence on the record while recording
findings of fact on various issues. Accordingly, the exercise of discretion by
the Trial Court can be said to be arbitrary as well as perverse. The Trial
Court has failed to exercise its discretion reasonably and in a judicial
manner justifying interference at the hands of this Court.
26\. In the result the appeal succeeds. The impugned judgment and order is
quashed and set aside. The Respondents/Defendants are restrained from using in
relation to its CANDYMAN CHOCO ECLAIRS of the Re. 1/- variety the impugned
different countries of the world form a group of companies known as Cadbury
Schweppes group.
3.1 The first defendant is a Company incorporated under the Indian Companies
Act, 1913 and carries on the business, inter alia, as manufacturers and
sellers of cigarettes/tobacco, confectionery, food articles, etc., and is the
alleged owner of the trademark "Candyman/Candyman Choco Éclairs" and the
second defendant is, inter alia, a manufacturer of confectionery items and is
the manufacturer of "Candyman Choco Éclairs".
3.2 It is the case of the plaintiffs that the second plaintiff introduced a
product under the name "Cadbury Chocolate Éclairs/Éclairs" in India in the
year 1972, in respect of the which it had got a label mark prepared, which was
registered as a trade mark. The said label mark was slightly modified by the
second plaintiff and the same was also registered and the said registration is
valid and subsisting. That, in or about June 1994, the second plaintiff
modified the soft chocolate cream centre of CADBURY CHOCOLATE ÉCLAIRS with
CADBURY DAIRY MILK milk chocolate centre which is a milk chocolate of a
particular specification unique to the Cadbury Schweppes Croup, the unique
characteristic being that the chocolate is processed directly from cows' milk
along with the other ingredients. That, in keeping with the traditional trade
dress of purple and/or purple and gold always associated with CADBURY DAIRY
principles while refusing temporary injunction, this Court can certainly
interfere in these interlocutory proceedings. Moreover, this Court has in
relation to the issue of deceptive similarity as well as prior use held that
the findings of fact recorded by the Trial Court are perverse, hence, the
facts and circumstances of the case warrant interference with the discretion
exercised by the Trial Court. Point No. 1 is decided accordingly.
25\. In conclusion, this Court is of the view that the Trial Court has not
applied the principles as regards grant of injunction correctly. The Trial
Court has also ignored relevant evidence on the record while recording
findings of fact on various issues. Accordingly, the exercise of discretion by
the Trial Court can be said to be arbitrary as well as perverse. The Trial
Court has failed to exercise its discretion reasonably and in a judicial
manner justifying interference at the hands of this Court.
26\. In the result the appeal succeeds. The impugned judgment and order is
quashed and set aside. The Respondents/Defendants are restrained from using in
relation to its CANDYMAN CHOCO ECLAIRS of the Re. 1/- variety the impugned
different countries of the world form a group of companies known as Cadbury
Schweppes group.
3.1 The first defendant is a Company incorporated under the Indian Companies
Act, 1913 and carries on the business, inter alia, as manufacturers and
sellers of cigarettes/tobacco, confectionery, food articles, etc., and is the
alleged owner of the trademark "Candyman/Candyman Choco Éclairs" and the
second defendant is, inter alia, a manufacturer of confectionery items and is
the manufacturer of "Candyman Choco Éclairs".
3.2 It is the case of the plaintiffs that the second plaintiff introduced a
product under the name "Cadbury Chocolate Éclairs/Éclairs" in India in the
year 1972, in respect of the which it had got a label mark prepared, which was
registered as a trade mark. The said label mark was slightly modified by the
second plaintiff and the same was also registered and the said registration is
valid and subsisting. That, in or about June 1994, the second plaintiff
modified the soft chocolate cream centre of CADBURY CHOCOLATE ÉCLAIRS with
CADBURY DAIRY MILK milk chocolate centre which is a milk chocolate of a
particular specification unique to the Cadbury Schweppes Croup, the unique
characteristic being that the chocolate is processed directly from cows' milk
along with the other ingredients. That, in keeping with the traditional trade
dress of purple and/or purple and gold always associated with CADBURY DAIRY
MILK milk chocolate of the Cadbury Schweppes group Companies, a new design of
the trade dress of Cold and Purple was devised for the product which was
relaunched to the consumers as CADBURY DAIRY MILK ÉCLAIRS.
3.3 It is the case of the plaintiffs that the trade dress for their chocolate
products and products containing chocolate such as Éclairs has consistently
been the purple and gold colour combination, bearing the registered trademark
CADBURY in a distinctive stylized form on it. That, similarly, the plaintiffs
and its group Companies the world over have been using the purple and gold
colour combination on their labels of chocolate confectionery products,
including the second plaintiffs' 'Eclairs' having the distinctive 'Dairy Milk'
milk chocolate centre. It is further the case of the plaintiffs that the said
principles while refusing temporary injunction, this Court can certainly
interfere in these interlocutory proceedings. Moreover, this Court has in
relation to the issue of deceptive similarity as well as prior use held that
the findings of fact recorded by the Trial Court are perverse, hence, the
facts and circumstances of the case warrant interference with the discretion
exercised by the Trial Court. Point No. 1 is decided accordingly.
25\. In conclusion, this Court is of the view that the Trial Court has not
applied the principles as regards grant of injunction correctly. The Trial
Court has also ignored relevant evidence on the record while recording
findings of fact on various issues. Accordingly, the exercise of discretion by
the Trial Court can be said to be arbitrary as well as perverse. The Trial
Court has failed to exercise its discretion reasonably and in a judicial
manner justifying interference at the hands of this Court.
26\. In the result the appeal succeeds. The impugned judgment and order is
quashed and set aside. The Respondents/Defendants are restrained from using in
relation to its CANDYMAN CHOCO ECLAIRS of the Re. 1/- variety the impugned
different countries of the world form a group of companies known as Cadbury
Schweppes group.
3.1 The first defendant is a Company incorporated under the Indian Companies
Act, 1913 and carries on the business, inter alia, as manufacturers and
sellers of cigarettes/tobacco, confectionery, food articles, etc., and is the
alleged owner of the trademark "Candyman/Candyman Choco Éclairs" and the
second defendant is, inter alia, a manufacturer of confectionery items and is
the manufacturer of "Candyman Choco Éclairs".
3.2 It is the case of the plaintiffs that the second plaintiff introduced a
product under the name "Cadbury Chocolate Éclairs/Éclairs" in India in the
year 1972, in respect of the which it had got a label mark prepared, which was
registered as a trade mark. The said label mark was slightly modified by the
second plaintiff and the same was also registered and the said registration is
valid and subsisting. That, in or about June 1994, the second plaintiff
modified the soft chocolate cream centre of CADBURY CHOCOLATE ÉCLAIRS with
CADBURY DAIRY MILK milk chocolate centre which is a milk chocolate of a
particular specification unique to the Cadbury Schweppes Croup, the unique
characteristic being that the chocolate is processed directly from cows' milk
along with the other ingredients. That, in keeping with the traditional trade
dress of purple and/or purple and gold always associated with CADBURY DAIRY
MILK milk chocolate of the Cadbury Schweppes group Companies, a new design of
the trade dress of Cold and Purple was devised for the product which was
relaunched to the consumers as CADBURY DAIRY MILK ÉCLAIRS.
3.3 It is the case of the plaintiffs that the trade dress for their chocolate
products and products containing chocolate such as Éclairs has consistently
been the purple and gold colour combination, bearing the registered trademark
CADBURY in a distinctive stylized form on it. That, similarly, the plaintiffs
and its group Companies the world over have been using the purple and gold
colour combination on their labels of chocolate confectionery products,
including the second plaintiffs' 'Eclairs' having the distinctive 'Dairy Milk'
milk chocolate centre. It is further the case of the plaintiffs that the said
principles while refusing temporary injunction, this Court can certainly
interfere in these interlocutory proceedings. Moreover, this Court has in
relation to the issue of deceptive similarity as well as prior use held that
the findings of fact recorded by the Trial Court are perverse, hence, the
facts and circumstances of the case warrant interference with the discretion
exercised by the Trial Court. Point No. 1 is decided accordingly.
25\. In conclusion, this Court is of the view that the Trial Court has not
applied the principles as regards grant of injunction correctly. The Trial
Court has also ignored relevant evidence on the record while recording
findings of fact on various issues. Accordingly, the exercise of discretion by
the Trial Court can be said to be arbitrary as well as perverse. The Trial
Court has failed to exercise its discretion reasonably and in a judicial
manner justifying interference at the hands of this Court.
26\. In the result the appeal succeeds. The impugned judgment and order is
quashed and set aside. The Respondents/Defendants are restrained from using in
relation to its CANDYMAN CHOCO ECLAIRS of the Re. 1/- variety the impugned
